This Chikzen-no-Kami had been for some time previously a Kurand (a sort of equerry) to Genji,
therefore his visit was especially welcome to him. He said that since he had left the capital
it had become difficult to see any of his acquaintances, and that therefore this especial visit
was a great pleasure to him. His reply to the message of Daini was to the same effect. Chikzen-no-Kami
soon took his leave, and returning to the boat, reported to his father and others all he had
seen. His sister also wrote to Genji privately thus: "Pray excuse me if I am too bold.

    Know you not the mind is swayed
      Like the tow-rope of our boat,
    At the sounds your Kin has made,
      Which around us sweetly float."

When Genji received this, his pleasure was expressed by his placid smile, and he sent back
the following:--

    "If this music moves the mind
      So greatly as you say,
    No one would care to leave behind
      These lonely waves of Suma's bay."

This recalls to our mind that there was in the olden time an exile who gave a stanza even to
the postmaster of a village.[110] Why then should not Genji have sent to her whom he knew this
stanza?

In the meantime, as time went on, more sympathizers with Genji were found in the capital, including
no less a personage than the Emperor himself. True it is that before Genji left, many even
of his relatives and most intimate friends refrained from paying their respects to him, but
in the course of time not a few began to correspond with him, and sometimes they communicated
their ideas to each other in pathetic poetry. These things reached the ears of the Empress-mother,
who was greatly irritated by them. She said: "The only thing a man who has offended the Court
should do is to keep himself as quiet as possible. It is most unpardonable that such a man
should haughtily cause scandal to the Court from his humble dwelling. Does he intend to imitate
the treacherous example of one who made a deer pass for a horse?[111] Those who intrigue with
such a man are equally blamable." These spiteful remarks once more put a stop to the correspondence.

Meanwhile, at Suma, the autumn passed away and winter succeeded, with all its dreariness of
scene, and with occasional falls of snow. Genji often spent the evening in playing upon the
Kin, being accompanied by Koremitz's flute and the singing of Yoshikiyo. It was on one of these
evenings that the story of a young Chinese Court lady, who had been sent to the frozen land
of barbarians, occurred to Genji's mind. He thought what a great trial it would be if one were
obliged to send away one whom he loved, like the lady in the tale, and as he reflected on this,
with some melancholy feelings, it appeared to him as vividly as if it were only an event of
yesterday, and he hummed:--

    "The sound of the piper's distant strain
      Broke on her dreams in the frozen eve."

He then tried to sleep, but could not do so, and as he lay the distant cry of Chidori reached
his ears.[112] He hummed again as he heard them:--

    "Although on lonely couch I lie
      Without a mate, yet still so near,
    At dawn the cries of Chidori,
      With their fond mates, 'tis sweet to hear."

Having washed his hands, he spent some time in reading a Kiô (Sutra), and in this manner the
winter-time passed away.

Towards the end of February the young cherry-trees which Genji had planted in his garden blossomed,
and this brought to his memory the well-known cherry-tree in the Southern Palace, and the fête
in which he had taken part. The noble countenance of the late ex-Emperor, and that of the present
one, the then Heir-apparent, which had struck him much at that time, returned to his recollection
with the scene where he had read out his poem.

    "While on the lordly crowd I muse,
      Which haunts the Royal festive hours,
    The day has come when I've put on
      The crown of fairest cherry flowers."

While thus meditating on the past, strange to say, Tô-no-Chiûjiô, Genji's brother-in-law, came
from the capital to see the Prince. He had been now made Saishiô (privy councillor). Having,
therefore, more responsibility, he had to be more cautious in dealing with the public. He had,
however, a personal sympathy with Genji, and thus came to see him, at the risk of offending
the Court.

The first thing which struck his eyes was, not the natural beauty of the scenery, but the style
of Genji's residence, which showed the novelty of pure Chinese fashion. The enclosure was surrounded
by "a trellis-work of bamboo," with "stone steps," and "pillars of pine-tree."[113]

He entered, and the pleasure of Genji and Tô-no-Chiûjiô was immense, so much so that they shed
tears. The style of the Prince's dress next attracted the attention of Tô-no-Chiûjiô. He was
habited in a plain, simple country style, the coat being of an unforbidden color, a dull yellow,
the trousers of a subdued green.

The furniture was all of a temporary nature, with Go and Sugorok playing boards, as well as
one for the game of Dagi. He noticed some articles for the services of religion, showing that
Genji was wont to indulge in devotional exercises. The visitor told Genji many things on the
subject of affairs in the capital, which he had been longing to impart to him for many months
past; telling him also how the grandfather of his boy always delighted in playing with him,
and giving him many more interesting details.

Several fishermen came with the fish which they had caught. Genji called them in and made them
show their spoils. He also led them to talk of their lives spent on the sea, and each in his
own peculiar local dialect gave him a narration of his joys and sorrows. He then dismissed
them with the gift of some stuff to make them clothing. All this was quite a novelty to the
eyes of Tô-no-Chiûjiô, who also saw the stable in which he obtained a glimpse of some horses.
The attendants at the time were feeding them. Dinner was presently served, at which the dishes
were necessarily simple, yet tasteful. In the evening they did not retire to rest early, but
spent their time in continuing their conversation and in composing verses.

Although Tô-no-Chiûjiô had, in coming, risked the displeasure of the Court, he still thought
it better to avoid any possible slander, and therefore he made up his mind to set out for his
home early next morning. The saké cup was offered, and they partook of it as they hummed,

    "In our parting cup, the tears of sadness fall."

Several presents had been brought from the capital for Genji by Tô-no-Chiûjiô, and, in return,
the former made him a present of an excellent dark-colored horse, and also a celebrated flute,
as a token of remembrance.

As the sun shed forth his brilliant rays Tô-no-Chiûjiô took his leave, and as he did so he
said, "When shall I see you again, you cannot be here long?" Genji replied,

    "Yon noble crane that soars on high,[114]
      And hovers in the clear blue sky,
    Believe my soul as pure and light;
      As spotless as the spring day bright.

However, a man like me, whose fortune once becomes adverse seldom regains, even in the case
of great wisdom, the prosperity he once fully enjoyed, and so I cannot predict when I may find
myself again in the capital."

So Tô-no-Chiûjiô, having replied as follows:--

    "The crane mounts up on high, 'tis true,
      But now he soars and cries alone,
    Still fondly thinking of his friend,
      With whom in former days he flew,"

set off on his homeward road, leaving Genji cast down for some time.

Now the coast of Akashi is a very short distance from Suma, and there lived the former Governor
of the province, now a priest, of whom we have spoken before. Yoshikiyo well remembered his
lovely daughter, and, after he came to Suma with Genji, he wrote to her now and then. He did
not get any answer from her, but sometimes heard from her father, to whom Genji's exile became
soon known, and who wished to see him for a reason not altogether agreeable to himself. It
should be remembered that this old man always entertained aspirations on behalf of his daughter,
and in his eyes the successive governors of the province who came after him, and whose influence
had been unbounded, were considered as nobodies. To him, his young daughter was everything;
and he used to send her twice a year to visit the temple of Sumiyoshi, in order that she might
obtain good fortune by the blessing of the god.

She was not of an ideal beauty, but yet expressive in countenance and exalted in mind. She
could, in this respect, rival any of those of high birth in the capital.

The priest said one day to his wife, "Prince Genji, the imperial son of the Kôyi of Kiritsubo
is now at Suma in exile, having offended the Court. How fortunate it would be if we could take
the opportunity of presenting our child to him!"

The wife replied, "Ah, how dreadful, when I heard what the townspeople talk, I understood that
he has several mistresses. He went even so far as to carry on a secret intimacy, which happened
to be obnoxious to the Emperor, and it is said that this offence was the cause of his exile."

"I have some reason for mentioning this to you," he interrupted, impatiently; "it is not a
thing which you understand, so make up your mind, I shall bring the matter about, and take
an opportunity of making him come to us."

"No matter how distinguished a personage he is," replied the wife, "it is a fact that he has
offended the Court and is exiled. I do not understand why you could take a fancy to such a
man for our maiden daughter. It is not a joking matter. I hope you will take it into graver
consideration."

"That a man of ability and distinction should meet with adverse fortune is a very common occurrence,"
said he, still more obstinately, "both in our empire and in that of China. How then do you
venture to say such things against the Prince? His mother was the daughter of an Azechi Dainagon,
who was my uncle. She enjoyed a good reputation, and when she was introduced at Court, became
both prosperous and distinguished. Although her life was shortened by the suffering caused
by the fierce jealousy of her rivals, she left behind the royal child, who is no other person
than Prince Genji. A woman should always be aspiring, as this lady was. What objection then
is there in the idea of introducing our only child to a man like him? Although I am now only
a country gentleman, I do not think he would withdraw his favor from me."

Such were the opinions of this old man, and hence his discouragement of the advances of Yoshikiyo.

The first of March came, and Genji was persuaded by some to perform Horai (prayer for purification)
for the coming occasion of the Third.[115] He therefore sent for a calendar-priest, with whom
he went out, accompanied by attendants, to the sea-shore. Here a tent was erected ceremoniously,
and the priest began his prayers, which were accompanied by the launching of a small boat,
containing figures representing human images. On seeing this Genji said,

    "Never thought I, in my younger day,
      To be thrown on the wild sea-shore,
    And like these figures to float away,
      And perhaps see my home no more."

As he contemplated the scene around him, he perceived that the wild surface of the sea was
still and calm, like a mirror without its frame. He offered prayers in profound silence, and
then exclaimed,

    "Oh, all ye eight millions of gods,[116] hear my cry,
      Oh, give me your sympathy, aid me, I pray,
    For when I look over my life, ne'er did I
      Commit any wrong, or my fellows betray."

Suddenly, as he spoke these words, the wind arose and began to blow fiercely. The sky became
dark, and torrents of rain soon followed. This caused great confusion to all present, and each
ran back to the house without finishing the ceremony of prayers. None of them were prepared
for the storm, and all got drenched with the rain. From this the rain continued to pour down,
and the surface of the sea became as it were tapestried with white, over which the lightning
darted and the thunder rolled. It seemed as if thunderbolts were crashing overhead, and the
force of the rain appeared to penetrate the earth. Everyone was frightened, for they thought
the end of the world was near.

Genji occupied his time in quietly reading his Buddhist Bible. In the evening, the thunder
became less loud, though the wind still blew not less violently than in the daytime. Everyone
in the residence said that they had heard of what is termed a flood-tide, which often caused
a great deal of damage, but they had never witnessed such a scene as they had that day. Genji
dropped off into a slumber, when indistinctly the resemblance of a human figure came to him
and said, "You are requested to come to the palace, why don't you come?"

Genji was startled by the words, and awoke. He thought that the king of the dragon palace[117]
might have admired him, and was perhaps the author of this strange dream. These thoughts made
him weary of remaining at Suma.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 106: When a person was exiled, he was generally deprived of his own title, or was
degraded. Genji appears to have been deprived of his.]

[Footnote 107: A favorite phrase in Chinese poems describing the journey of exile.]

[Footnote 108: Suma is about sixty miles from Kiôto, the then capital.]

[Footnote 109: A musical instrument--often called a koto.]

[Footnote 110: When Sugawara, before referred to, arrived at Akashi, on his way to exile, the
village postmaster expressed his surprise. Thereupon Sugawara gave him a stanza, which he composed:

    "Oh, master, be not surprised to see
      This change in my estate, for so
    Once to bloom, and once to fade
      Is spring and autumn's usual lot."
]

[Footnote 111: In Chinese history it is recounted that a certain artful intriguer made a fool
of his Sovereign by bringing a deer to the Court and presenting it before the Emperor, declaring
it to be a horse. All the courtiers, induced by his great influence, agreed with him in calling
it a horse, to the Emperor's great astonishment and bewilderment.]

[Footnote 112: The coast along by Suma is celebrated for Chidori, a small sea-bird that always
flies in large flocks. Their cries are considered very plaintive, and are often spoken of by
poets.]

[Footnote 113: Expressions used in a poem by Hak-rak-ten, describing a tasteful residence.]

[Footnote 114: Here Tô-no-Chiûjiô is compared to the bird.]

[Footnote 115: The third day of March is one of five festival days in China and Japan, when
prayers for purification, or prayers intended to request the freeing one's self from the influence
of fiends, are said on the banks of a river.]

[Footnote 116: In the Japanese mythology the number of gods who assemble at their councils
is stated to have been eight millions. This is an expression which is used to signify a large
number rather than an exact one.]

