The gentlemen of the Board of Health went on; and the Lady of Shalott went on.

The Lady of Shalott went out into the cart that had carried away the monkeys from the spring-box,
and the purple wing lifted to let her pass; and fell again, as if it had brushed her away.

The Board of Health went up the precipice, and stood by the window out of which the Lady of
Shalott had never looked.

They sent orders to the scavenger, and orders to the Water Board, and how many other orders
nobody knows; and they sprinkled themselves with camphor, and they went their ways.

And the board that had the right of way went its way, too. And Sary Jane folded up the shawl,
which she could not afford to lose, and came home, and made nankeen vests at sixteen and three
quarters cents a dozen in the window out of which the Lady of Shalott had never looked.

 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

MARJORIE FLEMING.

BY JOHN BROWN, M.D.

One November afternoon in 1810,--the year in which "Waverley" was resumed and laid aside again,
to be finished off, its last two volumes in three weeks, and made immortal in 1814, and when
its author, by the death of Lord Melville, narrowly escaped getting a civil appointment in
India,--three men, evidently lawyers, might have been seen escaping like school-boys from the
Parliament House, and speeding arm in arm down Bank Street and the Mound, in the teeth of a
surly blast of sleet.

The three friends sought the bield of the low wall old Edinburgh boys remember well, and sometimes
miss now, as they struggle with the stout west-wind.

The three were curiously unlike each other. Another, as unlike a woman as a man can be; homely,
almost common, in look and figure; his hat and his coat, and indeed his entire covering, worn
to the quick, but all of the best material; what redeemed him from vulgarity and meanness were
his eyes, deep set, heavily thatched, keen, hungry, shrewd, with a slumbering glow far in,
as if they could be dangerous; a man to care nothing for at first glance, but, somehow, to
give a second and not-forgetting look at.

He was in high spirits, keeping his companions and himself in roars of laughter, and every
now and then seizing them, and stopping, that they might take their fill of the fun; there
they stood shaking with laughter, "not an inch of their body free" from its grip. At George
Street they parted, one to Rose Court, behind St. Andrew's Church, one to Albany Street, the
other, our big and limping friend, to Castle Street.

We need hardly give their names. The first was William Erskine, afterwards Lord Kinnedder,
chased out of the world by a calumny, killed by its foul breath,--

   "And at the touch of wrong, without a strife,
    Slipped in a moment out of life."

There is nothing in literature more beautiful or more pathetic than Scott's love and sorrow
for this friend of his youth.

The second was William Clerk,--the Darsie Latimer of "Redgauntlet"; "a man," as Scott says,
"of the most acute intellects and powerful apprehension," but of more powerful indolence, so
as to leave the world with little more than the report of what he might have been,--a humorist
as genuine, though not quite so savagely Swiftian as his brother Lord Eldon, neither of whom
had much of that commonest and best of all the humors, called good.

The third we all know. What has he not done for every one of us? Who else ever, except Shakespeare,
so diverted mankind, entertained and entertains a world so liberally, so wholesomely? We are
fain to say, not even Shakespeare, for his is something deeper than diversion, something higher
than pleasure, and yet who would care to split this hair?

Had any one watched him closely before and after the parting, what a change he would see! The
bright, broad laugh, the shrewd, jovial word, the man of the Parliament House and of the world,
and, next step, moody, the light of his eye withdrawn, as if seeing things that were invisible;
his shut mouth, like a child's, so impressionable, so innocent, so sad: he was now all within,
as before he was all without; hence his brooding look. As the snow blattered in his face, he
muttered, "How it raves and drifts! On-ding o' snaw,--ay, that's the word,--on-ding--" He was
now at his own door, "Castle Street, No.39." He opened the door, and went straight to his den;
that wondrous workshop, where, in one year, 1823, when he was fifty-two, he wrote "Peveril
of the Peak," "Quentin Durward," and "St. Ronan's Well," besides much else. We once took the
foremost of our novelists, the greatest, we would say, since Scott, into this room, and could
not but mark the solemnizing effect of sitting where the great magician sat so often and so
long, and looking out upon that little shabby bit of sky, and that back green where faithful
Camp lies.[1]

[Footnote 1: This favorite dog "died about January, 1809, and was buried, in a fine moonlight
night, in the little garden behind the house in Castle Street. My wife tells me she remembers
the whole family in tears about the grave, as her father himself smoothed the turf above Camp
with the saddest face she had ever seen. He had been engaged to dine abroad that day, but apologized
on account of the death of 'a dear old friend.'"--Lockhart's Life of Scott.]

He sat down in his large, green morocco elbow-chair, drew himself close to his table, and glowered
and gloomed at his writing apparatus, "a very handsome old box, richly carved, lined with crimson
velvet, and containing ink-bottles, taper-stand, etc., in silver, the whole in such order that
it might have come from the silversmith's window half an hour before." He took out his paper,
then, starting up angrily, said, "'Go spin, you jade, go spin.' No, d--- it, it won't do:--

   'My spinnin'-wheel is auld and stiff;
      The rock o't wunna stand, sir;
    To keep the temper-pin in tiff
      Employs ower aft my hand, sir.'

I am off the fang.[2] I can make nothing of 'Waverley' to-day; I'll awa' to Marjorie. Come
wi' me, Maida, you thief." The great creature rose slowly, and the pair were off, Scott taking
a maud (a plaid) with him. "White as a frosted plum-cake, by jingo!" said he, when he got to
the street. Maida gambolled and whisked among the snow; and her master strode across to Young
Street, and through it to 1 North Charlotte Street, to the house of his dear friend, Mrs. William
Keith of Corstorphine Hill, niece of Mrs. Keith of Ravelston, of whom he said at her death,
eight years after, "Much tradition, and that of the best, has died with this excellent old
lady, one of the few persons whose spirits and cleanliness and freshness of mind and body made
old age lovely and desirable."

[Footnote 2: Applied to a pump when it is dry and its valve has lost its "fang."]

