In the winter time, when deep snow lay on the ground, a poor boy was forced to go out on a
sledge to fetch wood. When he had gathered it together, and packed it, he wished, as he was
so frozen with cold, not to go home at once, but to light a fire and warm himself a little.
So he scraped away the snow, and as he was thus clearing the ground, he found a tiny, gold
key. Hereupon he thought that where the key was, the lock must be also, and dug in the ground
and found an iron chest. "If the key does but fit it!" thought he; "no doubt there are precious
things in that little box." He searched, but no keyhole was there. At last he discovered one,
but so small that it was hardly visible. He tried it, and the key fitted it exactly. Then he
turned it once round, and now we must wait until he has quite unlocked it and opened the lid,
and then we shall learn what wonderful things were lying in that box.

----------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------

Children's Legends

Legend 1 St. Joseph in the Forest

There was once on a time a mother who had three daughters, the eldest of whom was rude and
wicked, the second much better, although she had her faults, but the youngest was a pious,
good child. The mother was, however, so strange, that it was just the eldest daughter whom
she most loved, and she could not bear the youngest. On this account, she often sent the poor
girl out into the great forest in order to get rid of her, for she thought she would lose herself
and never come back again. But the guardian-angel which every good child has, did not forsake
her, but always brought her into the right path again. Once, however, the guardian-angel behaved
as if he were not there, and the child could not find her way out of the forest again. She
walked on constantly until evening came, and then she saw a tiny light burning in the distance,
ran up to it at once, and came to a little hut. She knocked, the door opened, and she came
to a second door, where she knocked again. An old man, who had a snow-white beard and looked
venerable, opened it for her; and he was no other than St. Joseph. He said quite kindly, "Come,
dear child, seat thyself on my little chair by the fire, and warm thyself; I will fetch thee
clear water if thou art thirsty; but here in the forest, I have nothing for thee to eat but
a couple of little roots, which thou must first scrape and boil."

St. Joseph gave her the roots. The girl scraped them clean, then she brought a piece of pancake
and the bread that her mother had given her to take with her; mixed all together in a pan,
and cooked herself a thick soup. When it was ready, St. Joseph said, "I am so hungry; give
me some of thy food." The child was quite willing, and gave him more than she kept for herself,
but God's blessing was with her, so that she was satisfied. When they had eaten, St. Joseph
said, "Now we will go to bed; I have, however, only one bed, lay thyself in it. I will lie
on the ground on the straw." "No," answered she, "stay in your own bed, the straw is soft enough
for me." St. Joseph, however, took the child in his arms, and carried her into the little bed,
and there she said her prayers, and fell asleep. Next morning when she awoke, she wanted to
say good morning to St. Joseph, but she did not see him. Then she got up and looked for him,
but could not find him anywhere; at last she perceived, behind the door, a bag with money so
heavy that she could just carry it, and on it was written that it was for the child who had
slept there that night. On this she took the bag, bounded away with it, and got safely to her
mother, and as she gave her mother all the money, she could not help being satisfied with her.

