Additional evidence of Cutbush's chemical activity at this early age may be seen in a contribution
to the Philadelphia Medical Museum (1808) upon mercury fulminate. This interesting body he
declared to be mercury oxalate and cited as his authority Aikin's Chemical and Mineralogical
Dictionary. He believed that its oxalic acid content was due to the action of nitric acid upon
alcohol. Such being the case, he argued that he saw no reason why the salt could not be prepared
in a way by which "no alcohol is employed." Accordingly, he mixed intimately two parts of salt
of sorrel and one part of red precipitate. Upon this mixture he poured sixteen parts of water,
and rubbed the solid mass intimately together. In time the red-colored mass assumed an ash
color, when it was collected on a filter and dried. In his own words--

    "On trying a part of this powder on an anvil with a hammer,
    it exploded very violently, the comparison of which to that
    prepared by Howard's process was nearly equal."

While Cutbush was in error, relative to the true composition of the fulminate, he at least
gave to the scientific world a characteristic property of mercuric oxalate, which does explode
with considerable violence, while at 180° C. it quickly breaks down with a mild explosive effect.
Singularly enough, he seems not to have abandoned the view that the interaction of alcohol
and nitric acid give rise to oxalic acid.

While doing experimental work, Cutbush was active in the dissemination of science facts through
the medium of his pen. Thus it was in this year (1808) that he published the "Useful Cabinet."

The surroundings of Cutbush were congenial. Woodhouse was at the zenith of his career. John
Redman Coxe figured largely in Philadelphia science circles. The delightful and widely trained
Benjamin Smith Barton was a prime favorite with the younger men of science; Adam Seybert was
laying the foundations of mineralogical chemistry and Gerard Troost was soon to appear and
give additional zest and impetus to chemical research. To all these men Cutbush was known and
favorably known, judging from his own allusions to them in his scattered writings. Of them
all he seems to have entertained the strongest attachment to the celebrated Barton and the
talented Coxe, although he wrote of Dr. Woodhouse as "an experimenter unequalled." It is strange,
however, that his references to Robert Hare are few and meagre. It is not easy to understand
why this should be the case. True, there existed local prejudices and cliques in the closing
decades of the 18th Century and the opening decades of the 19th Century. They are to be deplored,
but humanity is frail and perhaps it is wisest to pass them by, yet so many things could be
better understood if all the facts were laid bare. Frequent favorable mention was made by Cutbush
of John Redman Coxe, hence probably the appearance of several of his contributions in the pages
of the Philadelphia Medical Museum, edited at this particular time by Coxe. For example, in
1809, Cutbush published an article on the formation of ether in this journal, and suggested
that the product of the interaction of sulphuric acid and alcohol could be best purified by
distilling it over manganese or lead dioxide and not over caustic potash as was customary.
He also dwelt on the production of ethylene in this process, attributing its presence to the
dehydrating action of sulphuric acid upon the alcohol. Momentarily, he rejoiced over this observation,
believing it was new, but promptly subsided when he discovered that Fourcroy and Vauquelin
had long before made the same observations and given the same explanation. Two years later
(1811), in the same journal, Cutbush reported results gathered from experiments to determine
the value of the hop to brewers. He said much in regard to its essential oil in the preparation
of malt liquor and repeated earlier personal observations upon the importance of chemistry
in the brewing operations--

    "An art in which, to the principles of chemistry, many
    improvements have been made. To our worthy and ingenious
    countryman, Mr. Hare, much praise is due for various
    improvements in this art, which, we may add, were in
    consequence of his correct principles in chemistry and
    natural philosophy."

Here is one of the few references to Robert Hare made by Cutbush. It was when Hare was devoting
most of his time and mental energies to the development and improvement of his father's business.
He applied his scientific knowledge to it, only in the end to have it fail through the conditions
which came upon the country during the period of the War of 1812. One cannot easily forget
the filial devotion of Robert Hare to his father in this particular business. Gladly would
he have pursued pure science, but he knew his duty and assumed it, although unable to devote
much time to science until 1818. But that story has been told. Another appreciation from Cutbush
which appears years later reads as follows:

    "The deflagrator of Professor Hare of Philadelphia is an
    apparatus well calculated for many interesting experiments
    on galvanism. To that gentleman we are indebted for the
    compound blowpipe, which produces a very intense heat by the
    combustion of hydrogen in contact with oxygen gas.
    Notwithstanding Professor Clark of England has laid claim to
    the apparatus, and the use of hydrogen gas in this way, the
    merit of the discovery is due to our learned and ingenious
    countryman."

The next few years in the life of Cutbush were most interesting. He enjoyed mingling with his
fellows, and it is recorded that in 1810 he became a member of Lodge No. 2, Free and Accepted
Masons, comprising in its membership General Peter Muhlenberg and many other distinguished
Philadelphians in various walks of life. Upon them he made an exceedingly favorable impression,
because in June of 1811, Cutbush was made presiding officer of his Lodge and frequently thereafter
he was invited to address his brethren upon some of the topics of the moment. It is quite certain
that he also availed himself in his dignified position to inculcate a knowledge of science,
and his favorite science chemistry in particular, for on the pages of the Freemason's Magazine
for 1811 may be seen "Subjects and Importance of Chemistry"--an article for laymen in which
is plainly set forth how the science enters every walk of life. In many respects it recalls
the introductory chapter of Parke's Chemical Catechism, for it advises how chemistry

    "removes the veil from the fabric of Nature, and makes us
    acquainted with all the phenomena which happen around us."

The offerings of Cutbush were fitting and most timely. They aroused the interest of his audience
and induced many to enter upon scientific pursuits. At one place he enlarged upon the wonderful
medicinal properties of a chalybeate water near Colestown, N. J., giving its analysis and the
healthful effect it seemed to produce on those who used it.

Again, in the December issue of the Freemason's Magazine (1881), he presented a most interesting,
readable and succinct historical sketch of our science which concludes as follows:

    "Thus chemistry is become an entirely new science. It is no
    longer confined to the laboratory of the arts: it has
    extended its flights to the sublimest heights of philosophy,
    and pursues paths formerly regarded as impenetrable
    mysteries. Placed forever in the elevated rank it now holds,
    rich with all its new conquests, it is become the science
    most adapted to the sublime speculations of philosophy, the
    most useful in advancing all the operations of the arts, and
    the most rational for scientific amusement. Exact in its
    process, sure in its results, varied in its operations,
    without limits in its applications and its views, severe and
    geometrical in its reasoning, there is scarcely any human
    occupation which it does not enlighten, and upon the
    perfection of which it may not have great influence. It
    bestows great enjoyment to every class of individuals: and
    who would not be ambitious of becoming acquainted with a
    science which enlightens almost every species of human
    knowledge?"

Imagine for a moment the effect of such an enthusiastic proclamation of the powers of chemistry
on the readers of the Magazine! It would be and no doubt was contagious, with the consequence
that our science was called upon to aid infant industries. Cutbush was far-visioned and dreamed
of the development of our Country's national resources. He had the spirit of Woodhouse, Seybert
and others, who, too, were actuated for our Country's welfare, for its development physically
and spiritually, and how better could this be accomplished than through the medium of science,
and in large measure by chemical science?

In his historical resume Cutbush mentions some

    "of the philosophers who have ... cultivated and enriched the
    new theory of chemistry with discoveries which will forever
    give immortality to their names, we have to notice Aikin,
    Babington, Bancroft, Beddoes, Blagdon, Cavendish, Chenevix,
    Crichton, Cruickshank, Davy, Lord Dundonald, Lord Dundas,
    Fordyce, Garnett, Hatchett, Henry, Higgins, Hope, Howard,
    Kirvan, Bishop of Llandaff, Murray, Nicholson, Pearson,
    Tennant, Tilloch, Thompson, Wedgwood, and Wollaston; and
    Achard, Crell, Gilbert, Gren, Goetling, Humboldt, Hermbstadt,
    Klaproth, Lowitz, Richter, Scherer, Tromsdorff, Westrumb,
    Wiegleb, Bertholet, Chaptal, Fourcroy, Lagrange, Guiton, Van
    Mons, Proust, Sequin, Vauquelin, etc., etc."

To the modern chemist these names probably represent little. Perhaps a few sound familiar,
but the majority are unknown to him. For instance, who would be apt to say much about the Bishop
of Llandaff, who wrote to Henry, author of one of the earliest and most delightful texts:

"CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 28, 1787."

    "Sir--

    "Allow me to return you my thanks of the obliging manner in
    which you conveyed to me the kind notice, which the Literary
    and Philosophical Society were pleased to take of my essay;
    and to assure you at the same time that it will give me great
    pleasure to be acquainted with a gentleman who is so
    eminently distinguished for his skill in chemistry, as you
    have shewn yourself to be. I have been told by good
    authority, of an odd fact relative to calcined mercury, the
    fact is this: A bottle which contained some calcined mercury
    which had been purchased in London was left standing without
    its cork for near thirty years without being looked at. When
    it was examined, the greater part of it was revivified.

    "I have the honour to be, Sir,
              "Yr obliged servt
                      "BP. LLANDAFF."

And this celebrated Bishop was no less a personage than Dr. Watson, whose "Chemical Essays"
are most charming, instructive reading at the present moment. Students of the history of our
science will find them to be so.

But all these early chemists--ancient, if you please--are gone. They cultivated chemistry with
pleasure and ardor. Some left visible imprints, while scarce a vestige remains of others. Their
labours have made our path easier. A century hence, many honoured to-day and respected for
their achievements, will receive scant consideration, though the work of the present looms
up large in our judgment.

The founding of the Columbian Chemical Society in 1811 was an event in the chemical circles
of Philadelphia. The old Chemical Society of Philadelphia went out of existence in 1809, with
the death of Woodhouse. The new organization was founded "by a number of persons desirous of
cultivating chemical science." It comprised many young men zealous in research. The names of
eminent foreigners and distinguished Americans are upon its rolls. Its meetings were monthly.
Each year, at the fall opening, "an oration on some chemical subject" was delivered. Every
month some member was appointed to read "an original chemical essay." It was recorded that

    "any person desirous of membership ... previous to his
    election ... shall read an original essay on some chemical
    subject on which any member may speak not more than ten
    minutes."

This feature was held to be important; at least the daily papers made note of it, as is evident
from the subjoined excerpt:

    "The following gentlemen have been elected Junior members of
    the Columbian Chemical Society, during the last year, after
    having read original dissertations, the subjects of which are
    attached to their respective names:

    "Mr. T. W. Robertson, 'Objections to the Existence of a
    Principle of Repulsion.'

    "Mr. Francis Brognard, 'On Chemical Affinity.'

    "Mr. Lewis Gerhardt, 'On Light.'

    "Mr. Dudley Burwell, 'On the Chemical Properties and Medical
    Uses of Arsenic.'

    "Mr. Jeremiah J. Foster, 'On the History, Nature and
    Properties of Oxygen Gas.'

    "Mr. J. C. Foster, 'Objections to the Antiphlogistic Theory
    of Combustion.'

    "Mr. Charles Gignilliat, 'On Hydrogen Gas.'

    "Mr. John Bent, 'On Oxygen Gas.'"

The monthly meetings were announced in the city papers. The announcements appeared at intervals
through a period of years, hence it may be assumed the Society was an active organization and
that its members regarded it as of consequence. The personnel of its official family is not
devoid of interest at present. A single volume of memoirs, printed in 1813, is still extant
and may occasionally be seen; from it will be learned that the "Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Esq.,
was the Patron" of the Society and its President was "James Cutbush, Esq., Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Chemistry and Mineralogy in St. John's College."

Turning to the table of contents two contributions from the President are observed. The first
relates to the "Prognostic Signs of the Weather" and the second is "On the Oxyacetite of Iron
as a Test or Reagent for the Discovery of Arsenic." There is little chemistry in the first
contribution, and the second possesses value chiefly in the qualitative way. They were evidently
dashed off with the idea of arousing discussion, in the hope that serious efforts might be
set in operation in certain directions.

The thought which intrudes itself in looking through the Memoirs, noting the character of the
individuals in the membership, and upon recalling the chemical activities of Cutbush, is as
to the man himself. Why should he, barely twenty-three years of age, be chosen to such an important
and prominent station as that of President of the Columbian Chemical Society? What manner of
man was he? What his qualifications, his fitness and his position in the science world of Philadelphia?
A search through ancient volumes in many libraries failed to bring to light any facts bearing
on these points. The only fact discovered that had any value came from a newspaper advertisement
bearing the date October, 1819. It read:

    "Bleaching Liquor, Artificial Musk, Phosphate of Mercury
    and other chemical Preparations, prepared and sold by

"JAMES CUTBUSH "Chemist and Apothecary "No. 25 South Fourth Street, Phila.

    "where complete collections of chemical reagents are kept as
    usual."

