#Ethelmar# or Aymer de Valence (1250-1261), who succeeded him, was half-brother of Henry III.,
being son of the Count of La Marche, who married John's widow. As a native of Poitou, his appointment
was as unpopular as that of de Roches, and, moreover, he is said to have been only an acolyte
when Henry forced the monks to accept him as their bishop. At first he was only styled "bishop-elect"
of Winchester, and he was not consecrated until Ascension Day 1260. Even before his appointment
we are told that his revenues exceeded those of the Archbishop of Canterbury, and he was permitted
to retain them. His tyranny and greed provoked the Oxford Parliament in 1258 to expel him from
the kingdom and he fled to France, dying three years later in Paris while on his return from
Rome to England; for he had induced the Pope to espouse his cause and consecrate him.

#John Of Exeter# or John Gervase (1265-1268) was appointed by the Pope on the death of Aymer,
in preference to two rivals whose election was disputed. He is accused of having purchased
his elevation. He assisted the barons in the Civil War, and after Simon de Montfort's failure
was suspended and cited to appear at Rome, where he died.

#Nicholas of Ely# (1268-1280) had been lord chancellor and high treasurer before he obtained
Winchester. On his death he was buried at Waverley Abbey, but an inscription on the wall of
the south choir aisle marks where his heart was interred in his cathedral.

#John de Pontissara#, Pontoise, or Sawbridge (1282-1304), nominated by the Pope against the
will of Edward I., at length made his peace by paying a fine of 2000 marks and giving his manor
of Swainstone, Isle of Wight, to the king. He built a college of S. Elizabeth of Hungary at
Winchester. He had been Chancellor of Oxford University, though at the time of his election
he was Professor of Civil Law at Modena.

#Henry Woodlock# (1305-1316), former prior of S. Swithun's monastery, who performed the coronation
of Edward II.; #John Sandale# (1316-1319); #Reginald Asser# (1320-1323); #John Stratford# (1323-1333),
whose election was opposed by the king, but who in the next reign was translated to Canterbury--are
not particularly noticeable.

#Adam Orleton# or de Orlton (1333-1345) was translated hither from Worcester by the Pope against
the king's wishes. He has the most unenviable notoriety of having been the bishop of Hereford
who instigated the brutal murder of Edward II. on September 21, 1327. He had been accused of
high treason and deprived of Hereford, but was restored thereto by the barons. Edward III.
apparently at length received him into favour; but Orleton went blind some years before his
death. He is buried in the Chapel of the Guardian Angels.

#William Edingdon# (1346-1366), though chiefly notable for his architectural work at Winchester,
was treasurer of England in 1350 and chancellor seven years later. He might, had he wished
it, have become Archbishop of Canterbury, but preferred Winchester. He began the great remodelling
of the nave, and, dying before much of the work was done, left certain property, as appears
from his will, for carrying on the work; though it is also said that a claim was made against
his executors with regard to the dilapidations of the see. His general reputation was, as a
biographer says, "that he loved the king's advantage more than that of the community." He founded
a convent of "Bonhommes" at his native village of Edingdon, in Wiltshire, where the church
building, or rather rebuilding, is due chiefly to him. He was buried in his own chantry in
the cathedral. His "monkish epitaph," as Warner calls it, runs thus:

  Edyndon natus Wilhelmus hic est tumulatus
  Praesul praegratus, in Wintonia cathedratus.
  Qui pertransitis, ejus memorare velitis.
  Providus et mitis ausit cum mille peritis.
  Pervigil Anglorum fuit adjutor populorum.
  Dulcis egenorum pater et protector eorum.
  MC tribus junctum post L.X.V. sit I punctum
  Octava Sanctum notat hunc Octobris inunctum.

#William of Wykeham# (1367-1404), whose name has become so identified with Winchester Cathedral
and College, was probably a native of the village of Wykeham, near Litchfield. Born in 1324,
after education at Winchester and Oxford he was in 1346 presented to the king, Edward III.,
at the age of twenty-three, "with no other advantages than his skill in architecture" and "the
courtly attribute of a courtly person." In the course of the next twenty-one years he rose
rapidly, filling various offices until he became Bishop of Winchester and Lord High Chancellor
of England. His first recorded appointment is to the clerkship of all the king's works near
Windsor, and in the same year he was surveyor of the new buildings there, including the round
tower and the eastern ward of the Castle and a College to the west for the Order of the Garter,
occupying the site of the ancient Domus Regis, close to the present S. George's Chapel. On
one of the towers the inscription This made Wykeham may or may not be meant to convey a double
meaning, but it is certainly true that his architectural successes furthered his fortunes.
In 1357 he received the tonsure, and in 1360 was made Dean of S. Martin's Le Grand, Archdeacon
of Lincoln, Northampton, and Buckingham, and Provost of Wells. In 1361 he commenced Queenborough
Castle on the island of Sheppey; this important edifice, covering over three acres of ground,
was demolished about 1650. The castles of Winchester, Porchester, Wolvesey, Ledes, and Dover,
with many others, are believed to have been either entirely rebuilt, or at least enlarged,
by him. He was only ordained priest five years before his elevation to Winchester. In 1394
he undertook the great reformation of the cathedral which is dealt with in another part of
this book. New College (Sainte Mary of Wynchestre), Oxford, opened by Wykeham on April 14,
1386, effected almost as great a revolution in university education as his famous college at
Winchester did for the training of boys. As Dr Ingram has pointed out, the very title of "New"
College which has clung to it shows how completely a new collegiate system was established
by its foundation, which served as a model for future endowments. His well-known motto--chosen
when his growing dignity made it necessary for him to possess armorial bearings--"Manners Makyth
Man" has generally been taken to mean that virtue alone is true nobility; Lord Campbell, however,
would have us rather interpret "manners" as the studied etiquette of courts and the polished
courtesy which Lord Chesterfield held so important a factor in success. Willis styles it "a
somewhat radical sentiment at the time." In his own day the secular arts Wykeham practised
did not meet with universal approval, for Wiclif alludes to him when he observes, "They wullen
not present a clerk able of God's word and holy ensample, but a kitchen clerk, or a penny clerk,
or one wise in building castles and other worldly doings." But despite this objection, the
whole of Wykeham's biographers, contemporary or posthumous, agree in praising him as highly
as Fuller, who says that his "benefaction to learning is not to be paralleled by any English
subject in all particulars," and his great innovation, whereby elementary education was taken
from the hands of the monks and, as in his own college, established upon an entirely different
plan, would alone stamp him as one whose foresight was far beyond his own times. He influenced
the nation in a way not easy to over-estimate, inasmuch as he originated, or at least carried
into execution, the idea of the great public school, as Englishmen understand it, and, by the
building of Winchester College, founded the institution he had long meditated in a way worthy
of his design. Previously to the actual construction of the college, he had maintained in temporary
shelters numbers of poor students. On the death of the Black Prince, whose fortunes he had
vigorously espoused, and the assumption of power by John of Gaunt, Wykeham was impeached on
the charge of embezzling the royal revenues, accepting bribes, and the like; and the king laid
hands on the temporalities of his see. But almost the last act of Edward III. was to restore
what he had seized to the bishop, under certain conditions which show the great wealth of the
latter. Milman, in his "Latin Christianity," does full justice to the "splendid, munificent
prelate, blameless in character," who devoted his vast riches to the promotion of learning,
and says that, though his endeavour to maintain the hierarchical power over humanity was bitterly
opposed by Wiclif, "the religious of England may well be proud of both." Wykeham was eighty
years of age when he died, and his body lies in the chantry erected by his orders on the south
side of the nave.

#Henry of Beaufort# (1405-1447), who followed Wykeham in the bishopric, was the second son
of John of Gaunt, by Catharine Swynford, and uncle of Henry V. In 1398, at the early age of
twenty-one, he was made bishop of Lincoln, and in 1404 was translated to Winchester. During
the reign of Henry V. he thrice filled the office of chancellor. In 1417, when ostensibly on
pilgrimage to the Holy Land, he was present at the Council of Constance which was then considering
the affairs of the church. At this time he was offered the cardinal's hat by Martin V. and
appointed papal legate, but the bestowal of this dignity on him was resented by the English
monarch, who commanded him to surrender his office at Winchester, which he declared was forfeited
by his becoming a cardinal. The dispute, however, was arranged, and "the haughty cardinal,
more like a soldier than a man of the church," formally received his hat at Calais in 1426.
In the following year he led a crusade against the followers of Huss in Bohemia, where, during
the retreat of the great army from Mies, he alone at the head of a band of English crusaders
endeavoured, but in vain, to arrest the utter rout. The death of Henry V. brought about a fierce
rivalry between the two great uncles, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester and the cardinal bishop of
Winchester, lasting until the death of the former, which only occurred six weeks before that
of Beaufort himself. During the half-century of his rule at Winchester he rebuilt St Cross
and founded the "Almshouse of Noble Poverty." Shakespeare has made Beaufort a prominent figure
in Parts I. and II. of "Henry VI.," but, for dramatic reasons, perhaps, he is painted very
much blacker than he deserved. That he was a militant ecclesiastic, scheming and unscrupulous,
is no doubt true; but he was a statesman and possessed firmness of purpose, fertility of resource,
and confidence in those whom he selected to carry out his designs. His wealth was very great,
for he was able to lend his nephew the king £20,000, besides spending an enormous amount in
charities, including £400,000 devoted to the inmates of London prisons.

#William of Waynfleete# (1447-1486), a student in Wykeham's colleges at Winchester and Oxford,
was first master of Winchester College, then made provost of Eton in 1443, and in 1447 succeeded
Beaufort in the bishopric of Winchester. From 1449 to 1459, like his predecessor, he held the
chancellor's seal, and during the Wars of the Roses was a firm adherent of Henry VI. His death
took place in 1486. He founded Magdalen College, Oxford, and possibly influenced Henry in his
endowment of King's College, Cambridge, and Eton. Waynfleete appears to have been a man of
great piety and learning, and, as Milman observes, his actions, in advancing non-monastic institutions,
reveal a sagacious fore-knowledge of the coming changes in the temporal power of the church,
and were planned to maintain its supremacy in ways better adapted to the new spirit which soon
after his death caused the downfall of the religious houses. The effigy of this bishop, in
his chantry in the retro-choir, has been restored.

#Peter Courtenay# (1486-1492) was translated from Exeter to Winchester, but at neither see
has he left any mark on the history, the architectural work of his period being due chiefly
to his priors.

#Thomas Langton# (1493-1500), translated hither from Salisbury, where he was active against
the adherents of Wiclif, was chosen in 1500 to occupy the see of Canterbury, but he died of
the plague before his translation, and was buried in his chantry to the south of the Lady Chapel.
He seems to have been enthusiastic in the cause of education, since he is said to have himself
superintended the teaching of boys in his town.

#Richard Fox# (1500-1528) was bishop successively of Exeter, Bath and Wells, and Durham before
he was appointed to Winchester. Great confidence was reposed in him by Henry VII., who chose
him as godfather of the future Henry VIII. To Fox is attributed the introduction of Wolsey
to the king. Yet this appears to have failed to win him the cardinal's gratitude, for, according
to Fuller: "All thought Bishop Fox to die too soon, only one excepted who conceived him to
live too long, Thomas Wolsey, who gaped for his bishopric." With Hugh Oldham, bishop of Exeter,
Fox was joint-founder of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, the pelican in her piety, which appears
on the college arms, being borne by the bishop. His fine chantry and the reconstruction of
the choir aisles bear witness to his interest in the fabric of his cathedral, and he is otherwise
noted for the assistance he gave to various foundations.

#Thomas Wolsey# (1529-1530) at length gained the coveted see, which he held in commendam with
the archbishopric of York, but only for one year.

#Stephen Gardiner# (1531-1555), another of the more famous prelates who have held this see,
is said to have been the illegitimate son of Bishop Lionel Woodville of Salisbury, brother-in-law
of Edward IV. Fuller, in one of his favourite conceits, says that Gardiner retained in his
wit and quick apprehension the sharpness of the air at his birthplace of Bury St Edmunds. In
1529 he became archdeacon of Norwich, and, owing to his services to Cardinal Wolsey and Henry
VIII., was appointed to Winchester. On the whole, he managed to keep on good terms with the
king; but his famous six articles in support of the Real Presence sent so many to the stake
that the title of "the bloody statute" has clung to them. During the reign of Edward VI. he
was kept prisoner in the Tower, and in 1550 was deprived of his bishopric, which was restored
to him on the accession of Mary, whom he crowned at Westminster. He performed also the marriage
service of Mary and Philip of Spain, mentioned on page 13. "His malice," says Fuller, "was
like what is commonly said of white powder which surely discharged the bullet yet made no report,
being secret in all his acts of cruelty. This made him often chide Bonner, calling him 'ass,'
though not so much for killing poor people as for not doing it more cunningly." Cruel and vengeful
as he was, it is yet possible that he has been rather unjustly accused of personal delight
in his victims' sufferings; but, while the persecutions under Mary continue to be the worst
chapter of English church history, the "hammer of heretics," as he was called, will always
continue to be execrated. On his death-bed at Westminster in 1555 he is reported to have said:
"I have sinned with Peter, but I have not wept with him." It has indeed been held that in his
latter days he was half a Protestant at heart, though this is difficult to establish. There
is preserved a rather amusing appeal of Gardiner to the Privy Council, dating from 1547. He
had intended to hold in Southwark a solemn dirge and mass in memory of Henry VIII., and writes
to complain that the players who flourished in the neighbourhood say that they will also have
"a solemne playe to trye who shal have most resorte, they in game, or I in earnest." During
Gardiner's imprisonment by Edward VI., #John Poynet#, once Cranmer's chaplain, held his see.
As the author of "On Politique Power" (1558), where he pleads that "it is lawful to kill a
tyrant," and uses some very immoderate language, Poynet may be remembered, but as an ecclesiastic
he has left only a discreditable record in his short term of office. He died in 1556 in Germany,
whither he had retired on the Roman Catholic revival.

#John White# (1556-1559), who succeeded Gardiner, was deposed by Queen Elizabeth. He was born
at Farnham, and educated at Winchester. Though personally he appears to have been pious, during
his tenure of the see four burnings of religious opponents took place in the diocese.

#Richard Horne# (1560-1580) was a very vigorous supporter of the reformed religion, and suffered
consequently under Mary. He appears to have been very fanatical against the use of vestments,
pictures, and ornaments of all kinds. He may have pulled down the monastic buildings at Winchester,
less from a mistaken zeal than from motives of economy; but his reputation in this respect
is very bad.

#John Watson# (1580-1583), formerly a Doctor of Medicine, only held the see for three years.

#Thomas Cooper# (1583-1594) was ordained on the accession of Elizabeth, his Protestancy hindering
him from taking holy orders under Mary. His preaching abilities rapidly secured his promotion
to the see of Lincoln in 1570, and Winchester thirteen years later. He was buried in the choir,
but his monument has disappeared. He engaged in controversies both with the "recusants" and
with the Puritans.

#William Wickham# (1594-1595), who also came from Lincoln to Winchester, only held the see
for ten weeks.

#William Day# (1595-1596), brother-in-law of the preceding, was provost of Eton for no less
than thirty-four years, but he died eight months after his elevation to Winchester.

#Thomas Bilson# (1597-1616), though called by Anthony à Wood "as reverend and learned a prelate
as England ever afforded," and the author of several theological works, has left little behind
him at Winchester.

#James Montagu# (1616-1618) may also be briefly dismissed. Bilson's "On the Perpetual Government
of Christ's Church" and Montagu's Latin translation of the writings of James I. can hardly
be said to have made them famous. Montagu's tomb is in Bath Abbey.

#Lancelot Andrewes# (1619-1626) is the most celebrated of the post-Reformation bishops who
have held the see. He was made Bishop of Chichester in 1605, Bishop of Ely in 1609, and moved
to Winchester nine years later. As a pious and austere man, a powerful preacher (an "angel
in the pulpit," he was called), a scholar versed in patristic literature, and a polemical writer,
he is well known. Milton's elegy suffices to prove the great respect and admiration which he
inspired in his contemporaries, and he held a considerable influence over James I.; but his
"Manual of Devotion" is the only volume of all his writings that can fairly be said to have
become a classic in any sense of the word. Andrewes died at Winchester House, Southwark, on
September 11, 1626; and his tomb is at S. Saviour's, Southwark, in the Lady Chapel, whither
it was moved on the destruction of the chapel to the east of the building, where it was originally
placed. He was censured by the House of Commons, together with Archbishop Laud, as "inclined
to Arminianism and favouring Popish doctrines and ceremonies."

