In December, 1840, Alfred de Musset was thirty years old, and on his birthday he had one of
those reckonings with himself, which the most deliberately careless and volatile men cannot
escape. At twenty-one he had held a similar settlement: he was then uncertain of his genius,
dissatisfied with his way of life and with the use he made of his time: the result was his
adoption of a more serious line of study and conduct, which had led him, in spite of interruptions
and aberrations, to the brilliant display of his beautiful and splendid talents, the full exercise
of his wonderful powers. Now another review of his past and survey of his future left him in
a mood of discontent and depression. He felt that he could not always go on being a boy. The
year behind him had been almost sterile, and marked by the loss of many of what he called his
illusions. He had been implored and urged to write by his friends and editors, had made and
broken promises without number to the latter, and had become involved in money difficulties
to a degree which kept him in constant anxiety and torment. Yet he steadily rejected all his
brother's affectionate advice and importunities to shake off the deepening lethargy. He would
not write poetry because the Muse did not come of her free will, and he would never do her
violence. He had forsworn prose, because he said everybody wrote that, and many so ill that
he would not swell the number of magazine story-writers, who, he foresaw, were to lower the
standard of fiction and style. In short, he always had an excuse for doing nothing, and although
he hated above all things to leave Paris, and seldom accepted the invitations of his friends
in the country, he now repeatedly rushed out of town to escape the visits of editors, who had
become no better than duns in his eyes. When at home he shut himself in his room for days together
in so gloomy a frame of mind that even his brother did not venture to break in upon him: he
even made a furtive attempt at suicide one night when his despondency reached its lowest depth;
it was foiled by the accident of Paul's having unloaded the pistols and locked up the powder
and balls some time before. He grew morbidly irritable, and resented Paul's remonstrances,
which, we may be sure, were made with all the tact and consideration of natural delicacy and
unselfish affection, generally by laughing at the poor poet, which was the most effectual way
of restoring his courage and good-humor. One morning he emerged from his seclusion, and with
vindictive desperation threw before his brother a quantity of manuscripts, saying, "You would
have prose: there it is for you." It was the introduction to a sort of romance called Le Poète
déchu, a wretched story of a young man of many gifts who finds himself under the necessity
of writing for the support of his orphan sisters, and it described with harrowing eloquence
the vain efforts of his exhausted brain. The extracts in the biography are painfully affecting
and powerful, but the work was never finished or published. Such a state of things could not
go on indefinitely, and De Musset fell dangerously ill of congestion of the lungs, brought
on by reckless imprudence when already far from well: the attack was accompanied by so much
fever and delirium that it was at first mistaken for brain fever. This illness redoubled the
tenderness and devotion of his family and friends: his Marraine and Princess Belgiojoso took
turns by his bedside, magnetizing the unruly patient into quiescence; but the person who exercised
the greatest influence over him was a poor Sister of Charity, Sœur Marcelline, who was engaged
to assist in nursing him. The untiring care, self-abnegation, angelic sweetness and serenity
of this humble woman gained the attachment of the whole family, and established an ascendency
over Alfred's impressionable imagination. She did not confine her office to her patient's physical
welfare, but strove earnestly to minister to him spiritually. His long convalescence "was like
a second birth. He did not seem more than seventeen: he had the joyousness of a child, the
fancies of a page, like Cherubino in the Marriage of Figaro. All the difficulties and subjects
of despair which preceded his malady had vanished in a rose-colored distance. He passed his
days in reading interminable books--Clarissa Harlowe, which he already knew, the Memorial of
St. Helena, and all the memoirs relating to the Empire. In the evening we all gathered about
his writing-table to draw and chat, while Sœur Marcelline sat by knitting in bright worsteds.
Auguste Barre, our neighbor, came to work at an album of caricatures in the style of Töppfer's,
and we all amused ourselves with the comic illustrations: Alfred and Barre had the pencil,
the rest of us composed a text as absurd as the drawings. Who will give us back those delicious
evenings of laughter, jest and chat, when without stirring from home or depending on anything
from without our whole household was so happy?" Alas! they were not of long duration. By and
by Sister Marcelline went away, leaving her patient a pen on which she had embroidered, "Remember
your promises." He was afflicted by her departure, and wrote some lines to her, who, as he
said, did not know what poetry meant, but he could never be induced to show them, although
he repeated them to Paul and their friend Alfred Tattet, who between them contrived to note
down the four following verses:

    Poor girl! thou art no longer fair.
    By watching Death with patient care
      Thou pale as he art grown:
    By tending upon human pain
    Thy hand is worn as coarse in grain
      As horny Labor's own.

    But weariness and courage meek
    Illuminate thy pallid cheek
      Beside the dying bed:
    To the poor suffering mortal's clutch
    Thy hard hand hath a gentle touch,
      With tears and warm blood fed.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Tread to the end thy lonely road,
    All for thy task and toward thy God,
      Thy footsteps day by day.
    That evil must exist, we prate,
    And wisely leave it to its fate,
      And pass another way;

    But thy pure conscience owns it not,
    Though ceaseless warfare is thy lot
    Against disease and woe;
    No ills for thee have power to sting,
    Nor to thy lip a murmur bring,
      Save those that others know.

De Musset held in peculiar sacredness and reverence whatever was connected with this good woman
and his feeling for her: seventeen years after this illness the embroidered pen and a piece
of her knitting were buried with him by almost his last request.

Seventeen years! a large bit of any one's life--more than a third of Alfred de Musset's own
term--yet there is hardly anything to say about it. The "Souvenir," which was written about
six months after his recovery, is the last poem in which all his strength, beauty and pathos
find expression: he never wrote again in this vein: it was the last echo of his youth. He composed
less and less frequently, and though what he wrote was redolent of sentiment, wit, grace and
elegance, and some of the short occasional verses have a consummate charm of finish, the soul
seems gone out of his poetry. His brother mentions a number of compositions begun, but thrown
aside; there were projects of travel never carried out; he gradually gave up the society of
even his oldest friends: everything indicated a rapid decline of the active faculties. Unhappily,
that of suffering seemed only to increase--no longer the sharp anguish of unspent force which
had wrung from him the passionate cries and plaintive murmurs of former years, but the dull
numbness of hopelessness. His existence was monotonous, and the few occurrences which varied
it were of a sad or unpleasant nature. His sister married and left Paris, and his mother subsequently
went to live with her in the country, thus breaking up their family circle; Paul de Musset
was absent from France for considerable spaces of time, so that for the first time Alfred de
Musset was compelled to live alone. Friends scattered, some died: the Orleans family, for whom
he had a real affection, was driven from France; he fancied that his genius was unappreciated--a
notion which, strangely enough, his brother shared--and although he was the last man to rage
or mope over misapprehension, the idea certainly added to his gloom. Through the good graces
of the duke of Orleans he had been appointed librarian of the Home Office, a post of which
he was instantly deprived on the change of government; but a few years later he was unexpectedly
given a similar one in the Department of Public Education. In 1852 he was elected to the French
Academy, that honor so limited by the small number of members, so ridiculed by unsuccessful
aspirants, yet without which no French author feels his career to be complete. His plays were
being performed with great favor, his poems and tales were becoming more and more popular,
his verses were set to music, his stories were illustrated: but all this brought no cheer or
consolation to the sick spirit. He lived more and more alone: the Théâtre Français, a silent
game of chess at his café, the deadly absinthe, were his only sources of excitement. It is
a comfort to learn that the last ray of pleasure which penetrated his moral dungeon, reviving
for an instant the generous glow of enthusiasm, was the appearance of Ristori: inspired by
her, he began a poetical address which he never finished, nor even wrote down, but a fragment
of it was preserved orally by one or two who heard it:

    For Pauline and Rachel I sang of hope,
      And over Malibran a tear I shed;
    But, thanks to thee, I see the mighty scope
            Of strength and genius wed.

    Ah keep them long! The heart which breathes the prayer
      When genius calls has ever made reply,
    Bear smiling home to Italy the fair,
            A flower from our sky.

           *       *       *       *       *

    They tell me that in spite of grief and wrong,
      And pride bent earthward by a tyrant's heel,
    A noble race, though crushed and conquered long,
            Has not yet learned to kneel.

    Rome's godlike dwellers of a bygone age,
      The marble, porphyry, alabaster forms,
    Still live: at night, to speech upon the stage,
            An ancient statue warms.

       *       *       *       *       *

What was the cause of De Musset's unhappiness and impotence? His brother tries to account for
them by an enumeration of the distresses and annoyances mentioned above, and others of the
same order; but when one remembers how the poet's great sorrows, his father's death and the
betrayal of his affection by the first woman he really loved, had given him his finest conceptions
in verse and prose, it is impossible to accept so insufficient an explanation. Nor can we allow
that De Musset sank into a condition of puerile impatience and senile querulousness. Judged
by our standard, all the Latin races lack manhood, as we may possibly do by theirs: De Musset
was only as much more sensitive than the rest of his countrymen as those of the poetic temperament
are usually found to be in all countries. Nor had he seen his talent slowly expire: the spring
did not run dry by degrees: it suddenly sank into the ground. He had made a fearful mistake
at the outset, which he discovered too late if at all. Considering what life is sure to bring
to every one in the way of trial and sorrow, it is not worth while to go in search of emotions
and experience which are certain to find us out; nor is it in the slums of life that its meaning
is to be sought. He had foretold his own end in the prophetic warning of his Muse:

    Quand les dieux irrités m'ôteront ton génie,
    Si je tombe des cieux que me répondras-tu?

His light was not lost in a storm-cloud nor eclipse, but in the awful Radnorok, the Götterdämmerung,
when sun and stars fall from a blank heaven. His health and habits constantly grew worse--he
had organic disease of the heart--but his existence dragged on until May 1st, 1857, when an
acute attack carried him off after a few days' illness. He died in his brother's arms, and
his last words were, "Sleep! at last I shall sleep." He had killed himself physically and intellectually
as surely as the wages of sin are death.

But let not this be the last word on one so beloved as a poet and a man. Mental qualities alone
never endear their possessor to every being that comes into contact with him, and Alfred de
Musset was idolized by people who could not even read. There was not a generous or amiable
quality in which he was wanting: he had an inextinguishable ardor for genius and greatness
in every form; he was tender-hearted to excess, could not endure the sight of suffering, and
delighted in giving pleasure; his sympathy was ready and entire, his loyalty of the truest
metal. "He never abused anybody," says his brother, "nor sacrificed an absent person for the
sake of a good story." He loved animals and children, and they loved him in return.

He can never cease to be the poet of the many, for he has melody, sentiment, passion, all that
charms the popular ear and heart--a personality which is the expression of human nature in
a language which, as he himself says, few speak, but all understand. He can never cease to
be the poet of the few, because, while his poems are a very concentration and elixir of the
most intense and profound feelings of which we are all capable, they give words to the more
exquisite and intimate emotions peculiar to those of a keener and more refined susceptibility,
of a more exalted and aërial range. Sainte-Beuve says somewhere, though not in his final verdict
on De Musset, that his chief merit is having restored to French literature the wit which had
been driven out of it by the sentimentalists. His wit is indeed delightful and irresistible,
but it is not his magic key to souls. In other countries every generation has its own poet:
younger ears are deaf to the music which so long charmed ours; but De Musset will be the poet
of each new generation for a certain season--the sweetest of all, because, as has been well
said, he is the poet of youth.

SARAH B. WISTER.

THE BEE.

    What time I paced, at pleasant morn,
      A deep and dewy wood,
    I heard a mellow hunting-horn
      Make dim report of Dian's lustihood
    Far down a heavenly hollow.
    Mine ear, though fain, had pain to follow:
      Tara! it twang'd, tara-tara! it blew,
      Yet wavered oft, and flew
    Most ficklewise about, or here, or there,
    A music now from earth and now from air.
      But on a sudden, lo!
      I marked a blossom shiver to and fro
    With dainty inward storm; and there within
    A down-drawn trump of yellow jessamine
              A bee
      Thrust up its sad-gold body lustily,
    All in a honey madness hotly bound
              On blissful burglary.
                       A cunning sound
    In that wing-music held me: down I lay
    In amber shades of many a golden spray,
    Where looping low with languid arms the Vine
    In wreaths of ravishment did overtwine
    Her kneeling Live-Oak, thousand-fold to plight
    Herself unto her own true stalwart knight.

    As some dim blur of distant music nears
    The long-desiring sense, and slowly clears
      To forms of time and apprehensive tune,
      So, as I lay, full soon
    Interpretation throve: the bee's fanfare,
    Through sequent films of discourse vague as air,
    Passed to plain words, while, fanning faint perfume,
    The bee o'erhung a rich unrifled bloom:
      "O Earth, fair lordly Blossom, soft a-shine
      Upon the star-pranked universal vine,
              Hast naught for me?
                       To thee
      Come I, a poet, hereward haply blown,
      From out another worldflower lately flown.
    Wilt ask, What profit e'er a poet brings?
    He beareth starry stuff about his wings
    To pollen thee and sting thee fertile: nay,
    If still thou narrow thy contracted way,
      --Worldflower, if thou refuse me--
      --Worldflower, if thou abuse me,
      And hoist thy stamen's spear-point high
      To wound my wing and mar mine eye--
    Natheless I'll drive me to thy deepest sweet,
    Yea, richlier shall that pain the pollen beat
    From me to thee, for oft these pollens be
    Fine dust from wars that poets wage for thee.
    But, O beloved Earthbloom soft a-shine
    Upon the universal jessamine,
          Prithee abuse me not,
          Prithee refuse me not;
    Yield, yield the heartsome honey love to me
          Hid in thy nectary!"
    And as I sank into a suaver dream
    The pleading bee-song's burthen sole did seem,
    "Hast ne'er a honey-drop of love for me
          In thy huge nectary?"

SIDNEY LANIER.

"OUR JOOK."

"Königin," said I, as I poked the fire, "what do you think of the people in the house?"

On second thoughts it was not "Königin" that I said, for it was only that night that she received
the title. It is of no consequence what I did call her, however, for from that time she was
never anything but Königin to me.

We began to "talk things over," as we had a way of doing; and very good fun it was and quite
harmless, provided the ventilator was not open. That had happened once or twice, and got us
into quite serious scrapes. People have such an utterly irrational objection to your amusing
yourself in the most innocent way at what they consider their expense.

Königin and I had come to the boarding-house that very day. We were by ourselves, for our male
protectors were off "a-hunting the wild deer and following the roe"--or its Florida equivalent,
whatever that may be--and we did not fancy staying at a hotel under the circumstances. Now,
we had taken our observations, and were prepared to pronounce our opinions on our fellow-boarders.
One after another was canvassed and dismissed. Mr. A. had eccentric table-manners; Miss B.
wriggled and squirmed when she talked; Mrs. C. was much too lavish of inappropriate epithets;
Mr. X.'s conversation, on the contrary, was quite bald and bare from the utter lack of those
parts of speech; Miss Y. had a nice face, and Mrs. Z. a pretty hand.

Just here Königin suddenly burst out laughing. "Really," she said, "we go about the world criticising
people as if we were King Solomon and the queen of Sheba."

"'Die Königin von Seba,'" said I. "That, I suppose, is you and our motto should be, 'Wir sind
das Volk und die Weisheit stirbt mit uns.'"

I was not at all sure of the accuracy of my translation, but its appropriateness was unquestionable.

"What do you think of the Englishman, Königin?" I asked, giving the fire another poke, not
from shamefacedness, but because it really needed it, for the evening was damp and chilly.

"I like him," said Königin decidedly.

Königin and I were always prepared with decided opinions, whether we knew anything about the
subject in hand or not.

"He has a fine head," Königin went on, "quite a ducal contour, according to our republican
ideas of what a duke ought to be. I like the steady intense light of his eyes under those straight
dark brows, and that little frown only increases the effect. Then his laugh is so frank and
boyish. Yes, I like him very much."

"He has a nice gentlemanly voice," I suggested--"rather on the 'gobble-gobble' order, but that
is the fault of his English birth."

This is enough of that conversation, for, after all, neither of us is the heroine of this tale.
It is well that this should be distinctly understood at the start. Somehow, "the Jook" (as
we generally called him, in memory of Jeames Yellowplush) and I became very intimate after
that, but it was never anything more than a sort of camaraderie. Königin knew all about it,
and she pronounced it the most remarkable instance of a purely intellectual flirtation which
she had ever seen; which was all quite correct, except for the term "flirtation," of which
it never had a spice.

One of the Jook's most striking peculiarities, though by no means an uncommon one among his
countrymen, was a profound distrust of new acquaintances and an utter incapacity of falling
into the free and easy ways which prevail more strongly perhaps in Florida than in any other
part of America. There really was some excuse for him, though, for, not to put it too strongly,
society is a little mixed in Florida, and it is hard for a foreigner to discriminate closely
enough to avoid being drawn into unpleasant complications if he relaxes in the slightest degree
his rules of reserve. Besides which, the Jook was a man of the most morbid and ultra refinement.
"Refinement" was the word he preferred, but I should have called it an absurd squeamishness.
He could make no allowance for personal or local peculiarities, and eccentricities in our neighbors
which delighted Königin and me and sent us into fits of laughter excited in his mind only the
most profound disgust. Therefore, partly in the fear of having his sensibilities unpleasantly
jarred upon, partly from the fear of making objectionable acquaintances whom he might afterward
be unable to shake off, and partly from an inherent and ineradicable shyness, he went about
clad in a mantle of gloomy reserve, speaking to no one, looking at no one--"grand, gloomy and
peculiar." It was currently reported that previous to our arrival he had never spoken to a
creature in the boarding-house, though he had been an inmate of it for six weeks. For the rest,
he was clever and intelligent, with frank, honest, boyish ways, which I liked, even though
they were sometimes rather exasperating.

It was not quite pleasant, for instance, to hear him speak of Americans in the frank and unconstrained
manner which he adopted when talking to us. We could hardly wonder at it when we looked at
the promiscuous crowd which formed his idea of American society. Refined and well-bred people
there certainly were, but these were precisely the ones who never forced themselves upon his
notice, leaving him to be struck and stunned by fast and hoydenish young ladies, ungrammatical
and ill-bred old ones, and men of all shades of boorishness and swagger, such as make themselves
conspicuous in every crowd. Unluckily, both Königin and I have English blood in our veins,
and the Jook could not be convinced that we did not eagerly snatch at the chance thus presented
of claiming the title of British subjects. It is quite hopeless to attempt to convince Englishmen
that any American would not be British if he could. Pride in American citizenship is an idea
utterly monstrous and inconceivable to them, and they can look on the profession of it in no
other light than that of a laudable attempt at making the best of a bad case. Therefore, the
Jook persisted in ignoring our protestations of patriotic ardor, and in paying us the delicate
compliment of considering us English and expressing his views on America with a beautiful frankness
which kept us in a frame of mind verging on delirium.

What was to be done with such a man? Clearly, but one thing, and I sighed for one of our American
belles who should come and see and conquer this impracticable Englishman. At present, things
seemed quite hopeless. There was no one within reach who would have the slightest chance of
success in such an undertaking. Though outsiders gave me the credit of his subjugation, I knew
quite well that there not only was not, but never could be, the necessary tinge of sentimentality
in our intercourse. We were much too free and easy for that, and we laughed and talked, rambled
and boated together, "like two babes in the woods," as Königin was fond of remarking.

It was in Florida that all this took place--in shabby, fascinating Jacksonville, where one
meets everybody and does nothing in particular except lounge about and be happy. So the Jook
and I lounged and were happy with a placid, unexciting sort of happiness, until the day when
Kitty Grey descended upon us with the suddenness of a meteor, and very like one in her bewildering
brightness.

Kitty was by no means pretty, but, though women recognized this fact, the man who could be
convinced of it remains yet to be discovered. You might force them to confess that Kitty's
nose was flat, her eyes not well shaped, her teeth crooked, her mouth slightly awry, but it
always came back to the same point: "Curious that with all these defects she should still be
so exquisitely pretty!"

Really, I did not so much wonder at it myself sometimes when I saw Kitty's pale cheeks flush
with that delicious pink, her wide hazel eyes deepen and glow, her little face light up with
elfish mirth, and her round, childish figure poise itself in some coquettish attitude. Then
she had such absurd little hands, with short fingers and babyish dimples, such tiny feet, and
such a wealth of crinkled dark-brown hair--such bewitching little helpless ways, too, a fashion
of throwing herself appealingly on your compassion which no man on earth could resist! At bottom
she was a self-reliant, independent little soul, but no mortal man ever found that out: Kitty
was far too wise.

Of course, as soon as I saw Kitty I thought of the Jook. Would he or wouldn't he? On the whole,
I was rather afraid he wouldn't, for Kitty's laugh sometimes rang out a little too loud, and
Kitty's spirits sometimes got the better of her and set her frisking like a kitten, and I was
afraid the modest sense of propriety which was one of the Jook's strong points would not survive
it. However, I concluded to risk it, but just here a sudden and unforeseen obstacle checked
my triumphant course.

"Mr. Warriner," I said sweetly (I was always horribly afraid I should call him Mr. Jook, but
I never did), "I want to introduce you to my friend, Miss Grey."

The Jook looked at me with his most placid smile, and replied blandly, "Thank you very much,
but I'd rather not."

Did any one ever hear of such a man? I understood his reasons well enough, though he did not
take the trouble to explain them: it was only exclusiveness gone mad. And he prided himself
upon his race and breeding, and considered our American men boors!

After that I nearly gave up his case as hopeless, and devoted myself to Kitty, whom I really
believe the Jook did not know by sight after having been for nearly a week in the same house
with her.

Kitty once or twice mildly insinuated her desire to know him. "He has such a nice face," she
said plaintively, "and such lovely little curly brown whiskers! He is the only man in the house
worth looking at, but if I happen to come up when he is talking to you, he instantly disappears.
He must think me very ugly."

It was really very embarrassing to me, for of course I could not tell her that the Jook had
declined the honor of an introduction. I knew, as well as if she had told me so, that Kitty
in her secret heart accused me of a mean and selfish desire to keep him all to myself, but
I was obliged meekly to endure the obloquy, undeserved as it was. Königin used to go into fits
of laughter at my dilemma, and just at this period my admiration of the Jook went down to the
lowest ebb. "He is a selfish, conceited creature!" I exclaimed in my wrath. "I really believe
he thinks that bewitching little Kitty would fall in love with him forthwith if he submitted
to an introduction. Oh, I do wish he knew what we thought of him! Why doesn't he listen outside
of ventilators?"

"My dear," said Königin, still laughing, though sympathetic, "it strikes me that we began by
making rather a demi-god of the man, and are ending by stripping him of even the good qualities
which he probably does possess."

Well! things went on in this exasperating way for a week or so longer. Of course I washed my
hands of the Jook, for I was too much exasperated to be even civil to him. Kitty was as bright
and good-natured as ever, ready to enjoy all the little pleasures that came in her way, though
now and then I fancied that I detected a stealthy, wistful look at the Jook's impassive face.

It was lovely that day, but fearfully hot. The sun showered down its burning rays upon the
white Florida sands, the sky was one arch of cloudless blue, and the water-oaks swung their
moss-wreaths languidly over the deserted streets. We had been dreaming and drowsing away the
morning, Königin, Kitty and I, in the jelly-fish-like state into which one naturally falls
in Florida.

Suddenly Kitty sprang to her feet. "I can't stand this any longer," she said: "I shall turn
into an oyster if I vegetate here. Please, do you see any shells sprouting on my back yet?"

"What do you want to do?" I asked drowsily. "You can't walk in this heat, and if you go on
the river the sun will take the skin off your face, and where are you then, Miss Kitty?"

"I can't help that," retorted Kitty in a tone of desperation. "I don't exactly know where I
shall go, but I think in pursuit of some yellow jessamine."

I sat straight up and gazed at her: "Are you mad, Kitty? Has the heat addled your brain already?
You would have to walk at least a mile before you could find any; and what's the good of it,
after all? It would all be withered before you could get home."

"Can't help that," repeated Kitty: "I shall have had it, at all events. Any way, I'm going,
and you two can finish your dreams in peace."

It was useless to argue with Kitty when she was in that mood, so I contented myself with giving
her directions for reaching the nearest copse where she would be likely to find the fragrant
beauty.

Two hours later Königin sat at the window gazing down the long sandy street. Suddenly her face
changed, an expression of interest and surprise came into her dreamy eyes: she put up her glass,
and then broke into a laugh. "Come and look at this," she exclaimed; and I came.

What I saw was only Kitty and the Jook, but Kitty and the Jook walking side by side in the
most amicable manner--Kitty sparkling, bewitching, helpless, appealing by turns or altogether
as only she could be; the Jook watching her with an expression of amusement and delight on
his handsome face. And both were laden with great wreaths and trails of yellow jessamine, golden
chalices of fragrance, drooping sprays of green glistening leaves, until they looked like walking
bowers.

"How on earth--" I exclaimed, and could get no further: my feelings choked me.

Kitty came in radiant and smiling as the morning, bearing her treasures. Of course we both
pounced upon her: "Kitty, where did you meet the Jook? How did it happen? What did you do?"

"Cows!" said Kitty solemnly, with grave lips and twinkling eyes.

"Cows? Cows in Florida? Kitty, what do you mean?"

"A cow ran at me, and I was frightened and ran at Mr. Warriner. He drove the cow off. That's
all. Then he walked home with me. Any harm in that?"

"Now, Kitty, the idea! A Florida cow run at you? If you had said a pig, there might be some
sense in it, for the pigs here do have some life about them; but a cow! Why, the creatures
have not strength enough to stand up: they are all starving by inches."

"Can't help that," said Kitty. "Must have thought I was good to eat, then, I suppose. I thought
she was going to toss me, but I don't think it would be much more agreeable to be eaten. Mr.
Warriner is my preserver, anyhow, and I shall treat him 'as sich.'"

Kitty looked so mischievous and so mutinous that there was evidently no use in trying to get
anything more out of her, and after standing there a few minutes fingering her blossoms and
smiling to herself, she danced off to dress for tea.

"Selfish little thing, not to offer us one of those lovely sprays!" I exclaimed, but Königin
laughed: "My dear, they are hallowed. Our touch would profane them."

Königin always saw further than I did, and I gasped: "Königin! you don't think--"

"Oh no, dear, not yet. Kitty is piqued, and wants to fascinate the Jook a little--just a little
as yet, but she may burn her fingers before she gets through. Looks are contagious, and--did
you see her face?"

Such a brilliant little figure as slipped softly into the dining-room that evening, all wreathed
and twisted and garlanded about with the shining green vines, gemmed with their golden stars.
Head and throat and waist and round white arms were all twined with them, and blossoming sprays
and knots of the delicately carved blossoms drooped or clung here and there amid her floating
hair and gauzy black drapery. How did the child ever make them stick? How had she managed to
decorate herself so elaborately in the short time that had elapsed since her return? But Kitty
had ways of doing things unknown to duller mortals.

Not a word had Kitty for me that evening, but for her father such clinging, coaxing, wheedling
ways, and for the Jook such coy, sparkling, artfully-accidental glances, such shy turns of
the little head, such dainty capricious airs, that it was delicious to watch her. Königin and
I sat in a dark corner for the express purpose of admiring her delicate little manœuvres. As
for her father, good stolid man! he was well used to Kitty's freaks, and went on reading his
newspaper in such a matter-of-fact way that she might as well have wheedled the Pyramid of
Cheops. The Jook, however, was all that could be desired. The shyest of men--shy and proud
as only an Englishman can be--he could not make up his mind to walk directly up to Kitty, as
an American would do, as all the young Americans in the room would have done if Kitty had let
them. But Kitty, flighty little butterfly as she seemed, had stores of tact and finesse in
that little brain of hers, and the power of developing a fine reserve which had already wilted
more than one of the young men of the house. For Kitty was none of your arrant and promiscuous
flirts who count "all fish that come to their net." She was choice and dainty in her flirtations,
but, possibly, none the less dangerous for that.

The Jook hovered about the room from chair to sofa, from sofa to window-seat, finding himself
at each remove one degree nearer to Kitty.

"He is like a tame canary-bird," whispered Königin. "Let it alone and it will come up to you
after a while, but speak to it and you frighten it off at once."

And when at length he reached Kitty's side, how beautiful was the look of slight surprise,
not too strongly marked, and the half-shy pleasure in the eyes which she raised to him; and
then the coy little gesture with which she swept aside her draperies and made room for him.
Half the power of Kitty's witcheries lay in her frank, childish manner, just dashed with womanly
reserve.

Well! the Jook was thoroughly in the vortex now: there was no doubt about that. Kitty might
laugh as loud as she pleased, and he only looked charmed. Kitty might frisk like a will-o'-the
wisp, and he only admired her innocent vivacity. Even the bits of slang and the Americanisms
which occasionally slipped from her only struck him as original and piquant. How would it all
end? That neither Königin nor I could divine, for Kitty was not one to wear her heart upon
her sleeve. It was very little that we saw of Kitty in these days, for she was always wandering
off somewhere, boating on the broad placid river or lounging about "Greenleaf's" or driving--always
with the Jook for cavalier, and, if the excursions were long, with her father to play propriety.
When she did come into our room, she was not our own Kitty, with her childish airs and merry
laughter. This was a brilliant and volatile little woman of the world, who rattled on in the
most amusing manner about everything--except the Jook. About him her lips never opened, and
the most distant allusion to him on our part was sufficient to send her fluttering off on some
pressing and suddenly remembered errand. Yet this reserve hardly seemed like the shyness of
conscious but unacknowledged love. On the contrary, we both fancied--Königin and I--that Kitty
began to look worried, and somehow, in watching her and the Jook, we began to be conscious
that a sort of constraint had crept into her manner toward him. It could be no doubt of his
feelings that caused it, for no woman could desire a bolder or more ardent lover than he had
developed into, infected, no doubt, by the American atmosphere. Sometimes, too, we caught shy,
wistful glances at the Jook from Kitty's eyes, hastily averted with an almost guilty look if
he turned toward her.

"What can it mean, Königin?" I said. "She looks as if she wanted to confess some sin, and was
afraid to."

"Some childish peccadillo," said Königin. "In spite of all her woman-of-the-world-ishness the
child has a morbidly sensitive conscience, and is troubled about some nonsense that nobody
else would think of twice."

"Can it be that she has only been flirting, and is frightened to find how desperately in earnest
he is?"

"Possibly," replied Königin. "But I fancy that she is too well used to that phase of affairs
to let it worry her. Wait a while and we shall see."

We couldn't make anything of it, but even the Jook became worried at last by Kitty's queer
behavior, and I suppose he thought he had better settle the matter. For one evening, when I
was keeping my room with a headache, I was awakened from a light sleep by a sound of voices
on the piazza outside of my window. It was some time before I was sufficiently wide awake to
realize that the speakers were Kitty and the Jook, and when I did I was in a dilemma. To let
them know that I was there would be to overwhelm them both with confusion and interrupt their
conversation at a most interesting point, for the Jook had evidently just made his declaration.
It was impossible for me to leave the room, for I was by no means in a costume to make my appearance
in the public halls. On the whole, I concluded that the best thing I could do would be to keep
still and never, by word or look, to let either of them know of my most involuntary eavesdropping.

Kitty was speaking when I heard them first, talking in a broken, hesitating voice, which was
very queer from our bright, fluent little Kitty: "Mr. Warriner, you don't know what a humbug
you make me feel when you talk of 'my innocence' and 'unconsciousness' and 'lack of vanity,'
and all the rest of it. I have been feeling more and more what a vain, deceitful, hypocritical
little wretch I am ever since I knew you. I have been expecting you to find me out every day,
and I almost hoped you would."

"What do you mean, Miss Grey?" asked the Jook in tones of utter amazement, as well he might.

"Oh dear! how shall I tell you?" sighed poor Kitty; and I could feel her blushes burning through
her words. Then, with a sudden rush: "Can't you see? I feel as if I had stolen your love, for
it was all gained under false pretences. You never would have cared for me if you had known
what a miserable hypocrite I really was. Why, that very first day I wasn't afraid of the cow--she
didn't even look at me--but I saw you coming, and--and--Helen wouldn't introduce you to me--and
it just struck me it would be a good chance, and so I rushed up to you and--Oh! what will you
think of me?"

"Think?" said the Jook: "why, I think that while ninety-nine women out of a hundred are hypocrites,
not one in a thousand has the courage to atone for it by an avowal like yours. Not that it
was exactly hypocrisy, either."

The poor blundering Jook! Always saying the most maddening things under the firm conviction
that it was the most delicate compliment.

Kitty was too much in earnest to mind it now, though. "Do you know," she went on, "that from
the very first day I came into the house I was determined to captivate you?--that every word
and every look was directed to that end? I have been nothing but an actress all through. I
have done it before, hundreds and hundreds of times, but I never felt the shame of it until
now--because--because--"

"Because you never loved any one before? Is that it, Kitty?" said the Jook tenderly.

"Oh, I don't know," said Kitty desperately. "How can I tell? But it's all Helen's fault. If
she had introduced you to me in a rational way, I should never have gone on so. But she wouldn't,
and I was piqued--"

"I must exonerate Miss Helen," interrupted the Jook. "She wanted to introduce me, and I declined.
I am sure I don't know why--English reserve, I suppose. I had not seen you then, you know,
and some of the people here are such a queer lot that I rather dreaded new acquaintances."

"Not Helen's fault?" wailed Kitty. "Oh, this is stolen--oh, poor Helen!"

Naturally, the Jook was utterly bewildered, but as for me I sprang up into a sitting posture,
for the meaning of Kitty's behavior had just flashed upon me. Absolutely, the poor little goose
thought that in accepting the Jook, as she was evidently dying to do, she would be robbing
me of my lover. And she never guessed at my own little romance, tucked away safely in the most
secret corner of my heart, which put any man save one quite out of the question for me. If
I had stopped to think, I suppose I should not have done what I did, but in my surprise the
words came out before I thought: "Good gracious, Kitty my dear! do take the Jook if you want
him! I don't."

I could not help laughing when I realized what I had done. A little shriek from Kitty and a
very British exclamation from the Jook, a slight scuffle of chairs and a sense, rather than
sound, of confusion, announced the effect of my words.

I waited for their reply, but dead silence prevailed, so I was obliged to speak again. "You
needn't be alarmed," I said, peering cautiously through the chinks in the blinds, for I had
approached the window by this time. "I didn't mean to listen, but I couldn't get out of the
way, and I never intended to let you or any one else know that I had heard your conversation.
I'm awfully sorry that I have disturbed you, but, as I am in for it now, I might as well go on."

There I stopped, for I didn't exactly know what to say, and I hoped that one of them would
"give me a lead." I could just catch a glimpse of their faces in the moonlight. The Jook was
staring straight at the window-shutter behind which I lurked, and the wrath and disgust expressed
in his handsome features set me off into a silent chuckle. I was sorry for Kitty, though. Her
face drooped as if it were weighed down by its own blushes, and the long lashes quivered upon
the hot cheeks.

"Ah, really, Miss Helen," spoke the Jook at last, "this is a most unexpected pleasure. Ah,
really, you know, I mean--"

It was not very lucid, but it was all I needed, and I replied suavely, "Oh yes, I understand.
You never asked me, and never had the faintest idea of doing so. Otherwise, we should not have
been such good friends. All I want is to enforce the fact on Kitty's mind.--And now, Kitty,
my dear, if you are quite satisfied on this point, I will dress and go down stairs.--Don't
disturb yourselves, pray!" for both of them showed signs of moving. "You can finish your conversation
to much better advantage where you are, and this little excitement has quite cured my headache."

I wonder how in the world they ever took up the dropped stitches in that conversation? They
did it somehow, though, for when they reappeared Kitty was the prettiest possible picture of
shy, blushing, shamefaced happiness, while the Jook was fairly beaming with pride and delight.
It was a case of true love at last: there was no doubt about that--such love as few would have
believed that a flighty little creature like Kitty was capable of feeling. It was wonderful
to see how quickly all her little wiles and coquetries fell off under its influence, just as
the rosy, fluttering leaves of the spring fall off when the fruit pushes its way. I don't believe
it had ever struck her before that there was anything degrading in this playing fast and loose
with men's hearts which had been her favorite pastime, or in beguiling them by feigning a passion
of which she had never felt one thrill. It was not until Love the magician had touched her
heart that the honest and loyal little Kitty that lay at the bottom of all her whims and follies
was developed. The very sense of unworthiness which she felt in view of the Jook's straightforward
and manly ardor was the surest guarantee for the perfection of her cure.

A truce to moralizing. Kitty does not need it, nor the Jook either. If he is not proud of the
bright little American bride he is to take back with him to the "tight little isle" of our
forefathers, why, appearances are "deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked."

HENRIETTA H. HOLDICH.

COMMUNISM IN THE UNITED STATES.

Nowhere in the history of the world have we any example of successful communism. The ancient
Cretan and Lacedemonian experiments, the efforts of the Essenes and early Christians, the modified
communities of St. Anthony and several orders of monks, the schemes of the Anabaptists of the
sixteenth century, together with all the experiments of modern times, have proved essential
failures. Setting out with ideas of perfection in the social state, and undertaking nothing
less than the entire abolition of the miseries of the world, the communists of all times have
lived in a condition the least ideal that can be imagined. The usual course of socialistic
communities has been to start out with a great flourish, to quarrel and divide after a few
months, and then to decrease and degenerate until a final dispersion by general consent ended
the attempt. During the short existence of nearly all such communities the members have lived
in want of the ordinary comforts of life, in dispute about their respective rights and duties,
at law with retiring members, and battling with the wilds and malarias of the countries in
which alone anything like practical communism has been usually possible. The most successful
(so far as any of these attempts can be called successful) have been those communities which
have been founded on a religion and which have consisted entirely of members of one faith.
But all political communism has utterly failed, and the name is little more than a synonym
for the most egregious blunders, excesses and crimes of which visionary and unpractical people
can be guilty.

The United States seem ill suited for the spread of communistic ideas, notwithstanding they
contain almost the only socialistic communities to be found anywhere. Though the people are
free to live in common if they desire, and although land and every facility are offered on
easy terms for the realization of communism--which is not the case in Europe (and which is,
therefore, the reason why the New World is chosen for communistic experiments)--yet there is
felt no need of communism here. There are neither the political nor the social inducements
for it which exist in Europe, and all efforts to excite an enthusiasm on the subject have invariably
failed. Almost the only agitators are foreigners, and nearly all the existing communities are
composed of foreigners. Of these, two only are political, the Icarian and the Cedar Vale, while
the rest are religious.

The Icarian Community in Adams county, Iowa, about two miles from Corning, a station on the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad, is the result of an effort to realize the communistic
theory of M. Cabet, a French writer and politician of some note. It is perhaps the most just
and practical of all communistic systems; for the reader will remember that social systems
are as numerous in France as religious systems are in this country, and take much the same
place in the passions and bigotries of the people of France, where there is but one religion,
as our various sects do here, where there are so many. The system of M. Cabet differs from
the others in much the same manner as our religious sects differ from one another; which is
not of much importance to the outside world, as they all contain the one principle of a community
of goods. M. Cabet first promulgated his system in the shape of a romance entitled A Voyage
to Icaria, in which he represented the community at work under the most favorable circumstances
and in a high degree of prosperity. According to his system, all goods are to be held in common,
and all the people are to have an equal voice in the disposal of them. Each is to contribute
of labor and capital all that he can for the common good, and to get all that he needs from
the common fund. "From each according to his ability--to each according to his wants," is the
formula of principles. The practical working of the community will further illustrate the system.

In 1848, M. Cabet, with some three thousand of his followers, sailed from France for New Orleans,
intending to take up land in Texas or Arkansas on which to establish a community, having the
promise that he would soon be followed by ten thousand more of his disciples. After spending
several months in reconnoitring, during which half of his followers got discontented and left
him, he settled with about fifteen hundred at Nauvoo, Illinois, where they bought out the property
of the Mormons, who had recently been driven from that place. There they commenced operations,
establishing a saw- and grist-mill, and carrying on farming and several branches of domestic
manufacturing. In a little while they sent out a branch colony to Icaria, in Adams county,
Iowa, where they purchased, or entered under the Homestead Act, four thousand acres of land.
In this place likewise they built a mill and went to farming and carrying on the more simple
trades. In a little while, however, a quarrel arose in the principal community at Nauvoo in
regard to the use and abuse of power, when, after a rage of passion not unlike that which they
had exhibited in the Revolution of 1848 in France, M. Cabet, with a large minority, seceded
and went to St. Louis, where they expected to form another and more perfect community. They
never formed this community, however, and were soon dispersed. The community at Nauvoo, being
now harassed with debts and with lawsuits growing out of the withdrawal of M. Cabet and his
party, repaired to their branch colony at Icaria, where they have been ever since. Here they
had likewise frequent disputes and withdrawals, often giving rise to lawsuits and a loss of
property, until in 1866, when the writer first visited them, they were reduced to thirty-five
members. Since that time they have picked up a few members, mostly old companions who had left
them for individual life, until now they have about sixty in all. They own at present about
two thousand acres of land, of which three hundred and fifty are under cultivation. They have
good stock, consisting of about one hundred and twenty head of cattle, five hundred sheep,
two hundred and fifty hogs and thirty horses. They still have their saw- and grist-mill, now
run by steam, but give most of their time to farming. They preserve the family relation, and
observe the strictest rules of chastity. Each family lives in a separate house, but they all
eat at a common table. By an economic division of labor one man cooks for all these persons,
another bakes, another attends to the dairy, another makes the shoes, another the clothes;
and in general one man manages some special work for the whole. No one has any money or need
of any. All purchases are made from the common purse, and each gets what he needs. The government
is a pure democracy. The officers are chosen once a year by universal (male) suffrage, and
consist of a president, secretary (and treasurer), director of agriculture and director of
industry. They have no religion, but, like most of the European communists, are free-thinkers.
They are highly moral, however, and much esteemed by their neighbors. Some of them are quite
learned, and all of them may be pronounced decidedly heroic for the terrible privations they
have undergone in order to realize their political principles, to which they are as strongly
and sincerely devoted as any Christian to his religion.

Such is a sketch of the most perfect system and most successful experiment of political communism
in the United States--not very encouraging, it will be confessed. The other example of political
communism is the Cedar Vale Community in Howard county, Kansas, which needs only to be mentioned
here, as it has as yet no history. It was commenced in 1871, and is composed of Russian materialists
and American spiritualists. They have a community of goods like the Icarians, and in general
their principles are the same. They had only about a dozen members at last accounts. Another
and similar community was established in 1874 in Chesterfield county, Virginia, called the
"Social Freedom Community," its principles being enunciated as a "unity of interest and political,
religious and social freedom;" but we cannot discover whether it is yet in existence, as at
last accounts it had only two full members and eight probationers. It will be seen from these
examples that the prospects of political communism are far from promising. Its principal power
has always been as a sentiment, and it can be dreaded only as an appeal to the destitute and
lawless to rise in acts of violence. It has been powerful in France in revolutions, riots and
mobs, and in this country in aiding the late strikers in their work of destruction.

The other existing communities are founded on some religious basis, being efforts on the part
of their founders to secure their religious rights or to live with those of the same faith
in closer relations. And although their measures have been similar in many respects to those
of the political communists, they have resorted to them not on account of any political principles,
but because they believed them to be commanded by Scripture or to grow out of some peculiarity
of religious faith or duty. Most of them have been formed after the model of the society of
the apostles, who had their goods in common, and because of their example. None, so far as
we know, have ever proposed to establish communities by force or to have the whole people embraced
in them. Held together by their peculiar religious principles, they have been far more successful
(especially when under some shrewd leader whom they believed to have a spiritual authority)
than when actuated purely by reason.

Perhaps the most successful of these religious communities is that of the "True Inspirationists,"
known as the Amana Community, in Iowa, seventy-eight miles west of Iowa City, on the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railroad. These are all Germans, who came to this country in 1842,
and settled at first near Buffalo, New York, on a tract of land called Ebenezer, from which
they are sometimes known as "Ebenezers." This tract comprised five thousand acres of land,
including what is now a part of the city of Buffalo. In 1855 they moved to their present locality
in Iowa. They pretend to be under direct inspiration, receiving from God the model and general
orders for the direction of their community. The present head, both spiritual and temporal,
is a woman, a sort of sibyl who negotiates the inspirations. Their business affairs are managed
by thirteen trustees, chosen annually by the male members, who also choose the president. They
are very religious, though having but little outward form. There are fourteen hundred and fifty
members, who live in seven different towns or villages, which are all known by the name of
Amana--East Amana, West Amana, etc. They have their property for the most part in common. Each
family has a house, to which food is daily distributed. The work is done by a prudent division
of labor, as in the Icarian community. But instead of providing clothing and incidentals, the
community makes to each person an allowance for this purpose--to the men of from forty to one
hundred dollars a year, to the women from twenty-five to thirty dollars, and to the children
from five to ten dollars. There are public stores in the community at which the members can
get all they need besides food, and at which also strangers can deal. They dress very plainly,
use simple food, and are quite industrious. They aim to keep the men and women apart as much
as possible. They sit apart at the tables and in church, and when divine service is dismissed
the men remain in their ranks until the women get out of church and nearly home. In their games
and amusements they keep apart, as well as in all combinations whether for business or pleasure.
The boys play with boys and the girls with girls. They marry at twenty-four. They own at present
twenty-five thousand acres of land, a considerable part of which is under cultivation. They
have, in round numbers, three thousand sheep, fifteen hundred head of cattle, two hundred horses
and twenty-five hundred hogs. Besides farming, they carry on two woollen-mills, four saw-mills,
two grist-mills and a tannery. They are almost entirely self-supporting in the arts, working
up their own products and living off the result. In medicine they are homœopathists.

The "Rappists" or Harmony Society at Economy, Pennsylvania, is composed of about one hundred
members, being all that remain of a colony of six hundred who came from Germany in 1803. They
were called Separatists or "Come-outers" in their own country, and much persecuted on account
of their nonconformity with the established Church. They landed in Baltimore, and some of them
who never found their way into the community, or who subsequently withdrew, settled in Maryland
and Pennsylvania, where they are still known as a religious sect. Those who remained together
purchased five thousand acres of land north of Pittsburg, in the valley of the Conoquenessing.
In 1814 they moved to Posey county, Indiana, in the Wabash Valley, where they purchased thirty
thousand acres of land, and in 1824 they moved back again to their present locality in Pennsylvania.
In 1831 a dissension arose among them, and a division was effected by one Bernard Mueller--or
"Count Maximilian" as he called himself--who went off with one-third of the members and a large
share of the property, and founded a new community at Phillips, ten miles off, on eight hundred
acres of land, which, however, soon disbanded on account of internal quarrels.

The peculiarity of this community is that there is no intercourse between the sexes of any
kind. In 1807 they gave up marriage. The husbands parted from their wives, and have henceforth
lived with them only as sisters. They claim to have authority for this in the words of the
apostle: "This I say, brethren, the time is short; it remaineth that both they that have wives
be as though they had none," etc. They teach that Adam in his perfect state was bi-sexual and
had no need of a female, being in this respect like God; that subsequently, when he fell, the
female part (rib, etc.) was separated from him and made into another person, and that when
they become perfect through their religion the bi-sexual nature of the soul is restored. Christ,
they claim, was also of this dual nature, and therefore never married. They believe that the
world will soon come to an end, and that it is their duty to help it along by having no children,
and so putting an end to the race as well as the planet.

Their property is all held in common and managed by a council of seven, from whom the trustees
are chosen. From four to eight live in each house, men and women together, who regard each
other as of the same sex, and are never watched. Each household cooks for itself, although
there is a general bakery, from which bread is taken around to the houses as they have need.
The members are fond of music and flowers, but they discard dancing. Though Germans, they have
ceased to use tobacco; which loss, it is said, the men feel more heavily than that of the wives.
They make considerable wine and beer, which they drink in moderation. They are said to be worth
from two millions to three millions of dollars, and speculate in mines, oil-wells, saw-mills,
etc., doing very little hard work, and hiring laborers from without to take their places in
all drudgery. They are engaged principally in farming and the common trades, and supply nearly
everything for themselves. They are nearly all aged, none of them being under forty except
some adopted children. All are Germans and use the German language.

The Shakers are the oldest society of communists in the United States. The parent society at
Mount Lebanon, New York, was established in 1792, being the outgrowth of a religious revival
in which there were violent hysterical manifestations or "shakes," from which they took their
name. In this revival one Ann Lee, known among them as "Mother Ann," was prominent. This woman,
of English birth, emigrated to Niskayuna, New York, about seven miles north-west of Albany,
where she pretended to speak from inspiration and work miracles, so that the people soon came
to regard her as being another revelation of Christ and as having his authority. Being persecuted
by the outside world, her followers, after her death, formed a community in which to live and
enjoy their religion alone and: undisturbed. Like the Rappists, they neither marry nor have
any substitute for marriage, receiving all their children by adoption. They live in large families
or communes, consisting of eighty or ninety members, in one big house, men and women together.
Each brother is assigned to a sister, who mends his clothes, looks after his washing, tells
him when he needs a new garment, reproves him when not orderly, and has a spiritual oversight
over him generally. Though living in the same house, the sexes eat, labor and work apart. They
keep apart and in separate ranks in their worship. They do not shake hands with the opposite
sex, and there is rarely any scandal or gossip among them, so far as the outside world can
learn. There are two orders, known as the Novitiate and the Church order, the latter having
intercourse only with their own members in a sort of monkish seclusion, while the others treat
with the outside world. The head of a Shaker society is a "ministry," consisting of from three
to four persons, male and female. The society is divided into families, as stated above, each
family having two elders, one male and one female. In their worship they are drawn up in ranks
and go through various gyrations, consisting of processions and dances, during which they continually
hold out their hands as if to receive something. The Shakers are industrious, hard-working,
economical and cleanly. They dress uniformly. Their houses are all alike. They say "yea" and
"nay," although not "thee" and "thou," and call persons by their first names. They confine
themselves chiefly to the useful, and use no ornaments. There are at present eighteen societies
of Shakers in the United States, scattered throughout seven States. They number in all two
thousand four hundred and fifteen persons, and own one hundred thousand acres of land. Their
industries are similar to those of the Rappists and True Inspirationists, and are somewhat
famed for the excellence of their products. The Shakers are nearly all Americans, like the
Oneidans, next mentioned, and unlike all other communistic societies in the United States.

The Perfectionists of Oneida and Wallingford are perhaps the most singular of all communists.
They were founded by John Humphrey Noyes, who organized a community at Putney, Vermont, in
1846. In 1848 this was consolidated with others at Oneida in Madison county, New York. In 1849
a branch community was started at Brooklyn, New York, and in 1850 one at Wallingford, Connecticut,
all of which have since broken up or been merged in the two communities of Oneida and Wallingford.
Their principles are perfectionism, communism and free love. By "perfection" they mean freedom
from sin, which they all claim to have, or to seek as practically attainable. They claim, in
explaining their sense of this term, that as a man who does not drink is free from intemperance,
and one who does not swear is free from profanity, so one who does not sin at all is free from
sin, or morally perfect. Their communism is like that of the Icarians, so far as property is
concerned, this being owned equally by all for the benefit of all as they severally have need;
which state they claim is the state of man after the resurrection. But they have a community
not only of goods, but also of wives; or, rather, they have no wives at all, but all women
belong to all men, and all men to all women; which they assert to be the state of Nature, and
therefore the most perfect state. They call it complex marriage instead of simple, and it is
both polygamy and polyandry at the same time. They are enemies of all exclusiveness or selfishness,
and hold that there should be no exclusiveness in money or in women or children. Their idea
is to be in the most literal sense no respecters of persons. All women and children are the
same to all men, and vice versâ. A man never knows his own children, and the mothers, instead
of raising their children themselves, give them over to a common nursery, somewhat after the
suggestion of Plato in his Republic. If any two persons are suspected of forming special attachments,
and so of violating the principle of equal and universal love, or of using their sexual freedom
too liberally, they are put under discipline. They are very religious, their religion, however,
consisting only in keeping free from sin. They have no sermons, ceremonies, sacraments or religious
manifestations whatever. There are no public prayers, and no loud prayers at all. Their method
of discipline is called "criticism," and consists in bringing the offender into the presence
of a committee of men and women, who each pass their criticisms on him and allow him to confess
or criticise himself. The least sign of worldliness or evidence of impropriety is enough to
subject one to this ordeal. They are very careful about whom they admit to their community,
as there are numerous rakes and idlers who make application on the supposition that it is a
harem or Turkish paradise. None are admitted who are not imbued with their doctrine of perfection,
and who do not show evidences of it in their lives. In a business point of view, they are comparatively
successful, the original members having contributed over one hundred thousand dollars' worth
of property, which has not depreciated. They engage in farming, wine-raising and various industries,
and are known in the general markets for their products.

The Separatists at Zoar, Ohio, about halfway between Cleveland and Pittsburg, are a body of
Germans who fled from Würtemberg in 1817 to escape religious persecution. They are mystics,
followers of Jacob Böhm, Gerhard, Terstegen, Jung Stilling and others of that class, and considerably
above the average of communists in intellect and culture. They were aided to emigrate to this
country by some English Quakers, with whom there is a resemblance in some of their tenets.
They purchased fifty-six hundred acres of land in Ohio, but did not at first intend to form
a community, having been driven to that resort subsequently in order to the better realization
of their religious principles. They now own over seven thousand acres of land in Ohio, besides
some in Iowa. They are industrious, simple in their dress and food, and very economical. They
use neither tobacco nor pork, and are homœopathists in medicine. In religion they are orthodox,
with the usual latitude of mystics. They have no ceremonies, say "thou" and "thee," take off
their hats and bow to nobody except God, refuse to fight or go to law, and settle their disputes
by arbitration. At first they prohibited marriage and had their women in common, like the Perfectionists.
In 1828, however, they commenced to break their rules and take wives. Now they observe the
marriage state. Their officers are elected by the whole society, the women voting as well as
the men.

The Bethel and Aurora communities--the former in Shelby county, Missouri, forty-eight miles
from Hannibal, and the latter in Oregon, twenty-nine miles south of Portland, on the Oregon
and California Railroad--were founded in 1848 by Dr. Kiel, a Prussian mystic, who practised
medicine a while in New York and Pittsburg, and subsequently formed a religious sect of which
these communists are members. He was subsequently joined by some of "Count Maximilian's" people,
who had left Rapp's colony at Economy, which this closely resembles except as to celibacy.
He first founded the colony in Missouri, where he took up two thousand five hundred and sixty
acres of land, and established the usual trades needed by farmers. In 1847 there were the inevitable
quarrel and division. In 1855 he set out to establish a similar community on the Pacific coast.
The first settlement was made at Shoalwater Bay, Washington Territory, which was, however,
subsequently abandoned for the present one at Aurora. There are now about four hundred members
at Aurora, who own eighteen thousand acres of land, and have the usual shops and occupations
of communists mentioned above, carrying on a considerable trade with their neighbors. The members
of both communities are all either Germans or Pennsylvania Dutch, and thrive by the industry
and economy peculiar to those people. Their government is parental, intended to be like God's.
Kiel is the temporal and spiritual head. Their religion consists in practical benevolence,
the forms of worship being Lutheran. They are thought to be exceedingly wealthy, but if their
property were divided among them there would be less than three thousand dollars to each family,
which, though more than the property of most other communities would average, is but small
savings for twenty years. They preserve the usual family relations.

The Bishop Hill Community, in Henry county, Illinois, was formed by a party of Swedes who came
to this country in 1846 under Eric Janson, who had been their religious leader in the Old World,
where they were greatly persecuted on account of their peculiar religious views. They suffered
great hardships in effecting a first settlement, some of them going off, in the interest of
the community, to dig gold in California, and others taking to stock-raising and speculating.
In this they were quite successful, so that jobs and speculations became the peculiar work
of this community. They took various public and private contracts; among others, one to grade
a large portion of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad and to build some of its bridges.
In 1859 they owned ten thousand acres of good land, and had the finest cattle in the State.
In 1859, however, the young people became discontented and wished to dissolve the community.
They divided the property in 1860, when one faction continued the community with its share.
In 1861 this party also broke up, separating into three divisions. In 1862 these again divided
the property after numerous lawsuits. A small fraction, I believe, still continues a community
on the ruins. In this community the families lived separately, but ate all together. They had
no president or single head, the business being transacted by a board of trustees. Their religion
was their principal concern.

Such are the strictly communistic societies in the United States. It will be seen that they
are each of such very peculiar views that they are specially fitted by their very oddity for
a life in common, and specially disqualified from the same cause to extend or embrace others;
for while their community of oddity makes them, by a necessarily strong sympathy, fit associates
to be together, it separates them by an impassable gulf from the appreciation and sympathy
of the rest of mankind, who are interested only in the ordinary common-sense concerns of life.

Besides these, there are several other colonies which, though not communistic, have grown out
of an attempt to solve some of the questions raised by socialism. They are for the most part
co-operative. The following are the principal: The Anaheim colony in California, thirty-six
miles from Los Angelos, which was formed by a large number of Germans in 1857, who banded together
and purchased a large tract of land, on which they successfully cultivate the vine in large
quantities. The property is held and worked all together, but the interests are separate, and
will be divided in due time. Vineland, New Jersey, on the railroad between Philadelphia and
Cape May, is another. It was purchased and laid out by Charles K. Landis in 1861 as a private
speculation, and to draw the overcrowded population of Philadelphia into the country, where
the people could all have comfortable homes and support themselves by their own labor. Some
fifty thousand acres of land were purchased, and sold at a low rate and on long time to actual
settlers and improvers. As a result, some twelve thousand people have been drawn thither, who
cultivate all this tract and work numerous industries besides. No liquors are allowed to be
sold in the place, so that the population is exceptionally moral as well as industrious, and
offers a model example of low rates and good government. A successful colony exists also at
Prairie Home in Franklin county, Kansas, which was founded by a Frenchman, Monsieur E.V. Boissière.
It is designed to be an association and co-operation based on attractive industry; a large
number of persons contributing their capital and labor under stringent laws, the proceeds to
be divided among them whenever a majority shall so desire. I might mention other associations
of this kind, which are, in fact, however, only a variety of partnership or corporation.

It strikes me, however, that this is the only practical remedy for the evils which are aimed
at by the communists, as far as they are remedial by social means. If a number of working people,
with the capital which their small savings will amount to (which is always large enough for
any ordinary business if there be any considerable number of them), can be induced to organize
themselves under competent leaders, and work for a few years together as faithfully as they
ordinarily do for employers, they might realize considerable results, and get the advantage
of their own work instead of enriching capitalists. But the difficulty is, that this class
have not, as a rule, learned either to manage great enterprises or to submit to those who are
wisest among them, but break up in disorder and divisions when their individual preferences
are crossed. The first lesson that a man must learn who proposes to do anything in common with
others (and the more so if there be many of them) is to submit and forbear. With a little schooling
our people ought, to a greater extent than at present, to be able to co-operate in large numbers
in firms and corporations where the members and stockholders shall themselves do all the work
and receive all the profits, and so avoid the two extremes of making profits for capitalists
and paying their earnings to officers and directors.

AUSTIN BIERBOWER.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

NOTES FROM MOSCOW.

JUNE 1 (May 20, Russian style), 1877.

This diversity in the matter of dates is unpleasantly perplexing at times. With every sensation
of interest and pleasure I set myself about the task of describing, I must at once begin to
reckon. Twelve days' difference! Yes, I have already grasped that fact, but then in which direction
must the deduction begin?--backward or forward? Such is the question that instantly arises,
and if we are at the fag end of one month and the beginning of another, the amount of reckoning
involved seems somewhat inadequate to the occasion. The Russian clergy, it is said--those,
at any rate, of the lowest class, designated as "white priests," many of them peasants by birth
and marvellously illiterate--have ever been averse to any change being made in the calendar,
in order that their seasons of fasting and feasting may not be disturbed.

Apropos of priests and priesthood. Whilst quietly at work yesterday morning my attention was
suddenly called off, first by a hurried exclamation, and then the inharmonious--ah, how utterly
discordant!--ding-donging of church-bells. "Listen!" fell upon my ear: "one of the secular
priests belonging to St. Gregory's church died two days ago, and is to be buried this morning.
They are still saying masses over his body, the church is packed, and it is a sight such as
you may possibly not have an opportunity of again witnessing." In half an hour we were within
the church-walls. The place was already thronged, and the air close almost to suffocation.
Never can one forget that peculiar heat, the sort of indescribable vapor, that arose, and the
perspiration that streamed down the faces of all present, each of whom, from the oldest to
the youngest, carried a lighted candle. After many vigorous efforts, and occasional collisions
with the flaring tapers, the wax or tallow dropping at intervals upon our cloaks, we found
ourselves at last in the centre of the edifice, immediately behind a dozen or more officiating
priests clad in magnificent robes, before whom lay their late confrère reposing in his coffin,
and dressed, according to custom, in his ecclesiastical robes. Tall lighted candles draped
with crape surrounded him, and the solemn chant had been going on around him ever since life
had become extinct. The dead in Russia are never left alone or in the dark. Relays of singing
priests take the places of those who are weary, and friends keep watch in an adjoining room.
The Russian temperament inclines to the strongest manifestation of the inmost feelings, and
the method here of mourning for the dead is exceptionally demonstrative. The corpse of the
old priest lay surrounded by what was of bright colors or purest white, the coffin being of
the last-mentioned hue. Black was utterly proscribed. The face and hands were half buried in
a lacy texture, whilst on the brow was placed a label, "fillet-fashion," on which was written
"The Thrice Holy," or Trisagion--"O Holy God! O Holy Mighty! O Holy Immortal! have mercy upon us!"

Chant after chant ascended for the repose of his soul. The deacon's deep bass voice rose ever
and anon in leading fashion, the other voices following suit. There was of course no instrumental
music. This Russian singing is curiously unique--of a character wholly different from any heard
elsewhere. It is weird in the extreme, and, if the expression be permissible, gypsy-like. The
deacons' voices are of wonderful capability, the popular belief being that they are specially
chosen on account of this peculiar power. At last there came a pause. Not only the priests'
and deacons' voices, but those of the chanting men and boys--alike unsurpliced and uncassocked,
lacking, therefore, much of the attraction offered by a service in the Western Catholic Church--had
all at once ceased to be heard. All were now pressing forward to kiss the dead priest--his
fellow-priests first, and then, duly in order, all his relations and friends. "The last kiss"
it is termed--a practice, it would seem, derived from the heathen custom, of which we find
such frequent mention. None, if possible, omit the performance of this duty, all seeking to
obtain the blessing or benefit, supposed to be thereby conferred. Some, however, are obliged
to content themselves with merely kissing the corners of the coffin.

Many of the numerous stichera, as they are termed--poetically-worded prose effusions--made
use of in the course of the service are curiously quaint. I quote two or three, of which I
have since procured a translation: "Come, my brethren, let us give our last kiss, our last
farewell, to our deceased brother. He hath now forsaken his kindred and approacheth the grave,
no longer mindful of vanity or the cares of the world. Where are now his kindred and friends?
Behold, we are now separated! Approach! embrace him who lately was one of yourselves."--"Where
now is the graceful form? Where is youth? Where is the brightness of the eye? where the beauty
of the complexion? Closed are the eyes, the feet bound, the hands at rest: extinct is the sense
of hearing, and the tongue locked up in silence."

The words succeeding these are supposed to emanate from the lips of the dead, lying mute before
the eyes of all present: "Brethren, friends, kinsmen and acquaintance, view me here lying speechless,
breathless, and lament. But yesterday we conversed together. Come near, all who are bound to
me by affection, and with a last embrace pronounce the last farewell. No longer shall I sojourn
among you, no longer bear part in your discourse. Pray earnestly that I be received into the
Light of life."

The absolution having been pronounced by the priest, a paper is placed in the dead man's hand--"The
Prayer, Hope and Confession of a faithful Christian soul." This is accompanied by another prayer
containing the written words of absolution. This custom has given rise to the belief in the
minds of many foreigners that such missives are presented in the light of passports to a better
world; but the idea seems to be as erroneous as it is absurd. Moreover, I believe that, strictly
speaking, the custom is one of national origin, and that the Church has had nothing to do with
its adoption.

All the lighted tapers having been taken away by one of the attendants, the coffin with its
gilded ornaments was removed slowly from its resting-place, and placed upon an enormous open
bier or hearse, extensively mounted and heavily ornamented with white watered silk, purple
and gilt draperies, a gilt crown surmounting all. The base of the ponderous vehicle was alone
permitted to boast a fringe of deep black cloth--as if, however, for the sole purpose of hiding
the wheels. The six horses, three abreast, were also enveloped in black cloth drapery touching
the ground on either side. Right and left of the coffin itself, and mounted therefore considerably
aloft, stood two yellow stoicharioned (or robed) deacons, wearing the epimanikia and orarion--the
former being a portion of the priestly dress used for covering the arms, and signifying the
thongs with which the hands of Christ were bound; the latter a stole worn over the left shoulder.
The head of each deacon was adorned with long waving hair, and each carried a censer in his
hand. They faced each other, keeping watch together over the dead. A procession of priests,
duly robed, began to move, preceded by censer-bearers and singing men and boys.

The point whence the procession started--Mala Greuzin, situated at the extreme east end of
Moscow--lay several miles away from the cemetery for which they were all en route; and this
veritably ancient Asiatic city had to be traversed at an angle in this solemn fashion, seventy
or eighty carriages following. From the beginning to the end of the prescribed route Muscovites
lined the road on either side, and it is fair to add that I never beheld more respect shown
even to royalty itself. All was quietness, the general expression of sympathy and respect being
permitted to find vent only in excessive gesticulation and genuflection. Not a head remained
covered, not a single person by whom the procession passed permitted it to do so without crossing
himself several times from forehead to chest and from shoulder to shoulder.

At the first church which the procession reached, the bells of which had begun to toll--clash
rather--long before it came in sight, the entire party halted. A bell was rung by one of those
in advance, and then all waited. The priests and their various acolytes clustered reverently
by the hearse, the followers and spectators standing at a respectful distance, but nevertheless
taking part in the service. After first incensing the hearse, themselves and all around, further
prayers were said and chanted: then a signal was given and all moved on again, only, however,
to again pause on the route, for at every church we passed--and we must have encountered at
least thirty or forty, if not more, seeing that such sacred edifices rise upon one's view in
Moscow at wellnigh every three or four minutes' space--the ceremony was repeated. No sooner
had one set of bells ceased to sound in our ears than another took its place, and again all
halted, and then again all marched onward. Every window as the cortége passed along was thrown
open, and figures bent forward ever and anon, enacting their wonted part in the pageant. And
the pageant, be it remembered, was, after all, only one of frequent occurrence.

Only the week before I had had the privilege of watching this identical old priest baptize
the child of one of the most ancient nobles here, the ceremony being performed not in a church,
but at the nobleman's house. One godfather and one godmother are all that are required, the
latter of whom holds the infant. On the godmother also a large share of duty devolves, there
being certain gifts which she is bound by national custom to offer for acceptance on the occasion.
Often, therefore, the duty of selecting a female sponsor becomes a somewhat invidious one.
A handsome dress to the mother, no matter in what rank of life; a delicate lace cap to the
main object of the occasion; a lace chemise for the same highly-honored small individual; and
an elaborate silk pocket handkerchief to the officiating priest,--these, when of the best quality,
and they are invariably so, mount up somewhat as regards price, seeing that everything is marvellously
dear here in the matter of dress. The godfather, standing immediately in front of the large
font brought specially for the purpose from the adjacent church, and at the right hand of his
fellow-sponsor, simply presents a small golden cross, to be worn, it is supposed, ever afterward.
Immediately behind the font, and facing the entire audience--for a large circle of friends
had been invited to witness the ceremony--was placed the "holy picture" of the household, without
which in Russia no homestead, whether belonging to rich or poor, is considered complete, and
before which a lighted oil lamp ever stands burning--a "picture of God," as the Russian children
are taught from their earliest years to call it. Before this the priests bowed on entering.

The mode of baptism was immersion, after several exorcisms had been read and the priest had
thrice blown in the infant's face, signing him, also thrice, on the forehead and breast. Three
tall lighted candles were affixed to the font, and others were held by the god-parents, except
when they marched round the font in procession three times during "the chrism," when the candles
were laid down. The chrism consists in anointing the infant's forehead, breast, shoulders and
middle of the back with holy oil, after which comes the service, when the forehead, eyes, nostrils,
mouth, ears, breast, hands and feet are again anointed, but this time with the holy unction
prepared once a year, on Monday in Holy Week, within the walls of the Kremlin, and consecrated
by the metropolitan in the cathedral of the Annunciation on Holy Thursday. Then comes the concluding
act, when the priest cuts off a small portion of the child's hair in four different places
on the crown of the head, encloses it in a morsel of wax and throws it into the font, as a
sort of first-fruits of that which has been consecrated.

S.E.

A DAY AT THE PARIS CONSERVATOIRE.

It was ten o'clock in the morning when we drove up to the door of the world-famous institution,
but, early as it was, an animated throng already filled the wide marble-paved entrance-hall--former
pupils in elegant attire; girl aspirants for future honors, accompanied by the inevitable mamma
with the invariable little hand-bag; young men and old; celebrated dramatists and well-known
actors, visitors, critics, etc.--all passing to and fro or engaged in conversation while awaiting
the hour for taking their seats. Passing through these, we ascend a narrow staircase that gives
one good hopes of a martyr's death should the theatre chance to catch fire, and we instal ourselves
in a narrow and by no means comfortable box in the dress-circle. The theatre of the Conservatoire,
though not very large, is very elegantly and artistically decorated in the Pompeian style,
the stage being set with a single "box scene," as it is technically called, which is never
changed, as plays are never acted there. Here take place the far-famed concerts du Conservatoire,
for which tickets are as hard to obtain as are invitations to the entertainments of a duchess,
all the seats being owned by private individuals. But what we are now here to witness is the
competition in dramatic declamation, tragic and comic. The jury occupy a box in the centre
of the dress-circle and opposite to the stage. This terrifying tribunal is enough to try the
nerves of the stoutest aspirant for dramatic honors, comprising as it does among its members
such powers in the land as Legouvé, Camilla-Doucet, Alexandre Dumas, the directors of the Comédie
Française and the Odéon, and the great actors Got and Delaunay. An elderly gentleman comes
forward on the stage and reads from a printed paper the name of each competitor and those of
his or her assistants, and that of the play from which the scene that is to be represented
is chosen. Each pupil selects a scene, and the persons who in French technical parlance are
to "give the reply" (i.e. to take the other characters in the scene) are chosen from among
the ranks of the pupil's fellow-competitors. Lots are drawn to decide the place that each one
is to occupy on the programme, the first place and the last being considered the least desirable.
Printed bills are distributed among the audience giving a list of the competitors, with the
names of the plays from which they have chosen scenes, and (horrible innovation for the lady
pupils!) the age of each one as well.

The competition is opened by M. Levanz, a young man of thirty, who took a second prize last
year, and who has chosen the closet-scene from Hamlet (the translation of the elder Dumas)
as his cheval de bataille. He has a marked Germanic countenance, decidedly the reverse of handsome,
yet mobile and expressive: his voice is good, his figure tall and manly. He has evidently seen
Rossi in Hamlet, and models his conception of the character on that grand impersonation. Next
comes M. Bregaint in a scene from Andromaque: he is so bad, so very bad, that the audience
are moved to sudden outbursts of hilarity by his grand tragic points. He is succeeded by a
boy of sixteen, tall and graceful, with a fine tragic face of the heroic Kemble mould, and
great blue-gray eyes that dilate or contract beneath the impulses of the moment--a born actor
from head to foot. He fairly thrills the audience in the great scene of the duke de Nemours
from Louis XI. This youth, M. Guitry, is undoubtedly, if his life be spared, the coming tragedian
of the French stage. Then we have the first one of the lady competitors, Mademoiselle Edet,
a tall, awkward girl of eighteen, with a flat face and Chinese-like features, dressed up in
a gown of cream-yellow foulard trimmed with wide fringe and made with a loose jacket, whereon
the fringes wave wildly in the air as she flings her arms around in the tragic love-making
of Phèdre. Two or three others of moderate merit succeed, and then comes Mademoiselle Jullien,
who gives the great scene of Roxane in Bajazet with so much intelligence of intonation and
grace of gesture that the audience are moved to sudden applause. She is rather too short and
of too delicate a physique for tragedy, but her face is expressive, her eyes fine, and there
are intellect and talent in every tone and movement. She is nearly twenty-nine years of age,
so has not much time to waste if she is to make her mark in her profession. Last on the list
of tragic aspirants comes a gentleman of thirty-one, M. Aubert, who goes through a scene from
Hamlet in a very tolerable manner. He was in the army, was doing well and was rising in grade
when, seized by the theatrical mania, he relinquished his profession and turned his attention
to the stage. Thus far, he has proved, practically speaking, a failure: he has won no prizes,
and no manager will engage him. This is his last chance, as his age will prevent him, by the
rules of the Conservatoire, from taking part in any future competition.

The tragedy concours ended, a recess of an hour is proclaimed, and there is a rush to the refreshment-tables
and a great consumption of sandwiches and cakes, of coffee and water (known as "mazagran")
and of vin ordinaire. Under that vestibule pass and repass the literary luminaries of modern
France. Here comes Francisque Sarcey, the greatest dramatic critic of France and one of the
most noted of her Republican journalists, broad-shouldered, black-eyed and stalwart-looking.
Yonder stand a group of Academicians--Legouvé, Doucet, Dumas--in earnest conversation with
Édouard Thierry, the librarian of the Arsénal. The handsome, delicate, aristocratic-looking
gentleman who joins the group is M. Perrin, the director of the Comédie Française, the most
accomplished and intelligent theatrical manager in France. There is an elderly, reserved-looking
gentleman beside him who looks like a solemn savant out on a holiday. It takes more than one
glance for us to recognize in him the most accomplished light comedian of our day, that embodiment
of grace, vivacity, sparkling wit and unfading youth, who is known to the boards of the Comédie
Française by the name of Delaunay. There are other minor luminaries, too numerous to mention.

We go up stairs and resume our seats, and the competition of comedy is begun. Scene succeeds
to scene and competitor to competitor: the day wears on, and flitting clouds from time to time
obscure the dome, bringing out the glare of the footlights that have been burning all day in
a singularly effective manner. Of the nineteen competitors, the deepest impression is made
by M. Barral, who plays a scene from L'Avare magnificently; by Mademoiselle Carrière, who reveals
herself as a sparkling and intelligent soubrette; and by Mademoiselle Sisos, a genuine comédienne,
only sixteen years of age and as pretty as a peach. It is six o'clock when the last competitor
has said his say, and then the jury retire to deliberate respecting the awards. What a flutter
there must be among the young things whose future destiny is now swaying in the balance, for
success means fortune, and failure a disheartening postponement, and to the elder ones downright
and disastrous ruin of all their hopes! Half an hour passes, and then, after what seems a weary
period of suspense, the box-door is thrown open and the jury resume their seats. Ambroise Thomas,
the president of the Conservatoire, strikes his bell and a dead silence ensues. In a full sonorous
voice he begins: "Concours of tragedy, men's class. No prizes.--Usher, summon M. Guitry." The
gifted boy comes forward to the footlights. "M. Guitry, the jury have awarded to you a premier
accessit." He bows and retires amid the hearty applause of the audience. "Women's class.--Usher,
call Mademoiselle Jullien." She comes out pale and agitated, the slight form quivering like
a wind-swept flower in her robes of creamy cashmere. Is it the Odéon that awaits her--the second
prize? for in her modesty she had only hoped for a premier accessit. "Mademoiselle Jullien,
the jury have awarded to you the first prize." The first prize! Those words mean to her an
assured career, a brilliant future, the doors of the Comédie Française flung wide open to receive
her. She falters, trembles, bows profoundly, and goes off in a very passion of hysterical weeping.
Then come the comedy awards. M. Barral gets a first prize, as is his just due, as does also
Mademoiselle Carrière. "Usher, call Mademoiselle Sisos." She comes forward, her great brown
eyes dilated with excitement, her cheeks burning like two red roses, a mass of faded white
roses clinging amid the rumpled gold of her hair--a very bewitching picture of childish grace
and beauty. "Mademoiselle Sisos, the jury have awarded to you a second prize." She laughs and
blushes, and brings her hands together with a childlike gesture of delight. "Oh, merci!" she
cries, and drops a courtesy, and then away she goes--happy little creature, thus consecrated
artiste at sixteen! The other awards are given, the jury leave their box, and the audience
disperse. The friends of the competitors crowd around the stage-door, and each of the successful
ones is seized by the hand and congratulated and embraced, the youthful Guitry being especially
surrounded. Two or three more years of study will land this gifted boy on the boards of the
Comédie Française. The queen of the day, Mademoiselle Jullien, has stolen away overcome by
excess of emotion, which, though joyful, is still exhausting to her delicate frame. Finally,
everybody retires, the doors are closed, and the long, exciting séance has come to an end at last.

L.H.H.

BRIGHAM YOUNG AND MORMONISM.

Brigham Young's career is a valuable commentary on that of Mohammed, and will hereafter be
a standard citation with explorers of the natural history of religions. It might be more proper
to go back of Young, and adhere to Joe Smith as the figure-head of the Mormon dispensation.
How Smith would have turned out had he lived, and whether he would have made as much of Utah
as the man upon whose shoulders his mantle fell, is not easy to say; but his was a less robust
character, the enthusiast in him too far obscuring the organizer and commander. The Church
is the thing to look at, rather than its leaders, when we consider duration--the soil rather
than the plough. Why has Mohammed's creation lasted longer and spread wider than that of Charlemagne
or Tamerlane? And is Smith's to have the like fortune, or to die out like those of Münster
and Joanna Southcote?

The Mormon "revelation" has been before the world more than forty years. In twenty-two years
from his first vision Mohammed had reduced all Arabia under his religious and political sway.
Young's dominions have not expanded territorially. His faith cannot be said to exist outside
of Utah. His converts are compelled to go thither for the exercise of their religion. Salt
Lake City is not a Mecca, the goal of a passing pilgrimage, but the one and only possible abiding-place
of those who profess its creed. A system thus localized is in danger of being stifled. Especially
is this the case when its seat is exposed to invasion by a swelling current of non-sympathizers
or open enemies. These may be repelled or prevented from improving their foothold by the firmness,
unity and numerical predominance of the invaded. So it has happened at Salt Lake. The Mormons
hold all the serviceable soil, and it is difficult for the "Gentiles" to effect a lodgment.
Until they do, they must occupy, even in their own eyes, somewhat the position of adventurers.
They cannot hope to secure the respect of the industrious sectaries who own and till the soil,
and who are taught to count them aliens and persecutors. Irrigation is here the only means
of successful agriculture. It involves great outlay of capital and labor, and creates great
fixedness of tenure. Newcomers are thus additionally discouraged.

Thus entrenched in a well-provisioned citadel, welcoming all the new levies it can win, and
amply able to provide for them, Mormonism bids fair to make a prolonged stand. To emerge from
a defensive position and strike for unlimited sway is what it cannot, to judge by all precedents,
expect. It will be compelled, in fact, to lighten itself of some dead weights in order to maintain
its actual situation. Polygamy must go, and the absolute power of the priesthood be modified.
With some such adaptations it may continue a reality for generations to come. And time is a
great sanctifier. A creed that lives for one or two centuries is by so much the more likely
to live longer. Youth is the critical period with religions, as with animals and plants and
nations. Through that period Mormonism is passing with flattering success. That such a lusty
juvenile will, by favor of the mellowing effect imposed on all creeds by early years of toil,
trouble and experience, reach a middle age of presentable decency, is not a more unlikely supposition
than the worthy Vermont clergyman would have pronounced, half a century ago, the idea that
his jeu d'esprit would become the Bible of sixty thousand industrious, well-ordered English-speaking
people in the heart of the American continent.

E.C.B.

THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN IN INDIA.

According to a report sent to our Commissioner of Education at Washington four years ago, there
were then in India one thousand girls' schools supported by the government and some five hundred
missionary schools devoted to female education. Besides these, there has sprung up during the
last few years a new field for the women-educators in that country. This is the teaching of
women in their homes. It is called zenana-work. The zenana is the women's apartment in the
house--the harem of the Turks. Women have been sent from England and from America for this
special object, and their labors are meeting with encouraging success. They are constantly
gaining admission to new families, which from caste or other causes are opposed to sending
their young women to the regular schools. Some of the zenana-teachers are regularly-educated
physicians.

For the government schools each province has a director of public instruction, with inspectors
of divisions and subdivisions. These directors are "gentlemen of high qualification and well
paid." It is a notable fact that in one of the provinces the office of director is filled by
a Christian woman--a foreigner no doubt, though the report does not say.

At Dehra, at the foot of the Himalaya Mountains, there is a high school for girls organized
on the plan of the Mount Holyoke Seminary. Here English is spoken, and the pupils are carried
through a course of training that may justly be termed high. One of the pupils of this school
has lately been appointed by the government to go to England and qualify herself as a physician,
under a contract to return and serve the government by taking charge of a hospital and college
for training young women as midwives and nurses.

Of course, in a country containing a population of over one hundred and fifty-one millions,
one thousand public schools for girls, supplemented as these are by missionary schools of many
denominations, are inadequate to meet the needs of the people. There is an increasing demand
in all the provinces for schools and colleges; and the native young men especially are eagerly
seeking the educational advantages of the colleges and universities, because they know that
these are a sure road to preferment. "The government takes care to give employment to those
who wish it."

The difficulties in the way of female education in India are well expressed in a late letter
from one of the most distinguished native reformers, Baboo Keshub Chunder Sen of Calcutta.
"No words of mine," he says, "would convey to you an adequate idea of the great obstacles which
the social and religious condition of the Hindoo community presents in the way of female education
and advancement. In a country where superstition and caste prejudices prevail to an alarming
extent, where widows are cruelly persecuted and prevented from remarrying, where high-caste
Hindoos are allowed to marry as many wives as they like without undertaking the responsibility
of protecting them, and where little girls marry at a most tender age and sacrifice all prospects
of healthy physical and mental development, it will take centuries before any solid and extensive
reform is achieved."

Until recently, scarcely one woman in ten thousand learned to read or acquired any of the accomplishments
common to women of Christian countries. Occasionally, women of vicious lives in cities, having
leisure, became quite learned, and this made learning a shame for women of irreproachable reputation.
Moreover, Hindoo husbands declared, and believed, that if you taught a woman to read she would
be sure in time to have illicit relations with some one. Ignorance was innocence, the safeguard
of both rank and chastity.

The missionaries, who were the first to attempt the amelioration of the people, had to commence
with the lowest castes or classes, those having nothing to lose; and even then the teachers
had to pay the girls a small copper coin daily for attending school. Even the government schools
in some places pay the girls for attending, but they are much more popular than the missionary
schools, because, according to the Rev. Joseph Warren in the report mentioned, the parents
are not afraid that their girls will become Christians by attending them; and he adds that
the government teachers and books are "all positively heathen or quite destitute of all religion."
In some parts of the country the government schools secure the attendance of high-caste girls
by allowing them to be placed behind a curtain, and thus screened from the eyes of the male
teacher or inspector, as all the women of such classes are screened from male visitors. Even
the physician sees only a hand protruded from under a curtain, and by the touch of this, with
a few unsatisfactory answers to his questions, he is supposed to be able to know what the malady
is, and how to prescribe for it.

M.H.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

A duodecimo that discourses on equal terms of Emerson and the chickadee, and unites Carlyle
and the author's cow with a cement or filling-in indescribable in variety and in the comminution
of materials, need not be held to strict account in the matter of neatness or accuracy of title.
The closing article, headed "The Flight of the Eagle," is the most remarkable of the collection.
Who would suspect, under such a heading, an elaborate eulogy of Walt Whitman? The writer is
obviously more at home among the song-birds than among the Raptores, unless he be the discoverer
of some new species of eagle characterized by traits very unlike those of other members of
the genus. It were to be wished that he had left out the disquisition on Whitman, for it is
a jarring chord in his little orchestra of lyric and ornithologic song. He might have kept
it by him till the longer growing of his critical beard, and then, if still a devotee at that
singular shrine, have expanded it into a volume or two explanatory of the imagination, animus
and metre of his favorite bard.

The feathered warblers have always been popular with the featherless, who are indebted to them
for no end of similes and suggestions. What would poetry be without the skylark, the nightingale,
the dove and the eagle? It is far yet from having exhausted them. It cannot be said to have
approached them in the right way--on the most eloquent and interesting side. It forgets that
each species of bird stands by itself, and has its special life and history as truly as man.
We counted thirty-nine kinds in a grove the centre whereof was our delightful abode for two-thirds
of the past summer, each endowed with its separate outfit of language, ways and means of living,
tastes and political and social notions. In each, moreover, individualism showed itself--if
not to our apprehension as articulately, yet as indubitably, as among the race which considers
them to have been all created for its amusement and advantage. It does not take long, superficial
as is our acquaintance with their vernacular and the workings of their little brains, to single
out particular specimens, and perceive that no two "birds of a feather" are exactly alike.
A particular robin will rule the roost, and assert successfully for his mate the choice of
resting-places above competing redbreasts. It is a particular catbird, identified, it may be,
by a missing feather in his tail, that heads the foray on our strawberries and cherries. We
recognize afar off either of the pair of "flickers," or yellow-shafted woodpeckers, which have
set up their penates in the heart of the left-hand garden gatepost. The wren whose modest tabernacle
occupies the top of the porch pilaster we have little difficulty in "spotting" when we meet
her in a joint stroll along the lawn-fence. Her ways are not as the ways of other wrens. She
has a somewhat different style of diving into the ivy and exploring the syringa. A new generation
of doves has grown up since the lilacs were in bloom, and nothing is easier than to distinguish
the old and young of the two or three separate families till all leave the grass and the gravel
together and hie to the stubble-fields beyond our ken. Of the one mocking bird who made night
hideous by his masterly imitations of the screaking of a wheel-barrow (regreased at an early
period in self-defence) and the wheezy bark of Beppo, the superannuated St. Bernard, there
could of course be no doubt. There was none of his kind to compare him with--not even a mate,
for "sexual selection" could not possibly operate in face of so inharmonious a love-song. His
isolation had its parallel in the one white guinea-fowl that haunted the shrubbery like a ghost,
much more silent and placid than it would have been in society, and its antitype in the hennery,
where individuality of course ran riot among the Brahmas, Dominicas and Hamburgs--hens that
would and would not lay, that would and would not set, that would and would not scratch up
seeds, and presented generally as great a variety of vagaries as of feathers. So, when we turned
our back at last on lovely Boscobel, itself shut out, as the common phrase goes, "from the
world" by serried ramparts of maple, elm, acacia and catalpa, we knew well that that enceinte
of leafage enclosed many little worlds of its own--winged microcosms, epicycles of the grand
cycle of dateless life which man in his humility assumes to be merely a subsidiary appendage
of his own orbit.

Birds should be studied seriously. The naturalists will tell us more about them, and interest
us more, than the poets. Mr. Bryant makes fun of the bobolink, and turns into an aimless whistle
the solemn oration on domestic matters uttered by that small but energetic American to his
mate. The waterfowl he treats more gravely and respectfully, but he still makes it only a part
of the landscape and the theme, without ascribing any intelligent purpose to its flight. The
bird, proceeding steadily and calmly to its business, may well have confounded its versifier
with his fellow the fowler, and looked upon him, too, as regretting only that it was out of
gunshot. Audubon or Wilson would have noted more sensibly the floating figure, far above "falling
dew," and the earth-bound mortal who was evidently afraid of rheumatics and calculating whether
he could walk home before dark. The bird, they would have been perfectly aware, was neither
"wandering" nor "lost," and no more in need of the special interposition of a protecting Providence
than they or Mr. Bryant. They would infer its motives, its point of departure and its destination,
the character of the friends it left behind or sought--whether it was carrying out a plan of
the day or bound on an expedition covering half the year. Its species would have been plain
to them at half a glance, and its scientific name would have replaced the vague designation
of "waterfowl." Its life, habits and habitat winter and summer, would have unrolled before
them, and the dogs-eared and rain-stained note-book sprung open for a new entry. The poet,
on the other hand, got happily home without injury to his health (for he is still hale half
a century after the fact), lit the gas, nibbed the quill pen of the day, and sent down to us
what must be confessed a pleasanter memorandum than we should have had from the forest-students.
These, brave and ardent fellows! have long been asleep beneath the birds.

Mr. Burroughs is half poet, half naturalist in his way of looking at Nature, and steers clear
of the poetic vagueness in regard to species. A passing description of the brown thrush as
"skulking" among the bushes hits that bird to the life. Some remarks on page 119 would seem
to be applied by a slip of the pen to the crow blackbird, instead of the cowbird, which has
always enjoyed the distinction of being the only American species that disposes of its offspring
after the fashion of the cuckoo and Jean Jacques Rousseau. The chapter on Emerson contains
some acute remarks, but the warmest tribute to Emerson is the book itself, in which that writer's
influence is everywhere patent both in style and thought. Mr. Burroughs has a happy facility
of expression, and could well afford by this time to discard the Emersonian props and stand
on his own merits.

The Life of Edgar Allan Poe. By W.F. Gill. Illustrated. New York: Dillingham.

Griswold's memoir of Poe has been actually beneficial to the reputation of its subject, contrary
to its obvious design. It has caused a thorough sifting of all accessible records of the poet's
short and dreary life, and elicited many reminiscences from men of mark who were in one way
or another personally associated with him. We know now, more certainly than we might have done
but for Griswold's effort to prove the opposite, that Poe was not expelled in disgrace from
the University of Virginia, but bore himself well there as a student and a man; that he deliberately
went to work and procured his being dropped from the rolls of West Point by building up with
venial faults the requisite sum of "demerits," after having repeatedly and in vain sought permission
to withdraw from the control of a system of discipline so unsuited to his temperament; that,
so far from being intemperate, a single glass of wine sufficed to bring on something like insanity;
that, instead of neglecting his family, he devoted himself to them with a very rare exclusiveness,
and wore down his health by watching at the bedside of his sick wife; that he was as faithful
to his business as to his domestic obligations; and that, wholly disqualified for battling
with the world, he managed to keep his necessarily troubled life at least unstained. We know,
moreover, that he did not appoint Griswold his literary executor, and that the document used
by the latter as a means of deriving from that assumed office an opportunity of vindictive
defamation was drawn up after the poet's death by Griswold himself. To the controversy thus
excited we are indebted for the illumination of one or two poems relinquished by the critics
as hopelessly, if not intentionally, obscure. Ulalume, for example, held by some to be a mere
experiment on the jingling capacity of words and the taste of readers for grappling with insoluble
puzzles, is pronounced by one familiar with his most intimate feelings at the time of its composition
a sublimated but distinct reflex of them and of the circumstances which gave them color.

Could Poe's pen have cleared itself from the morbid influences which fixed it in a peculiar
path, we might have missed some of his finest and most subtle poems and some prose efforts
which we could better spare. But his wonderful powers of analysis would have been serviceable
upon a broader and more practical field. He had an insight into the laws of language and of
rhythm equalled by no one else in our day. What is most mysterious in the forms and relations
of matter had a special charm for him. None could trace it more acutely; and his powers, matured
by more and healthier years and applied in their favorite direction, were quite equal to results
like those attained by his predecessor Goethe, the savant of poets. He died a few years older
than Burns and Byron, but more of a boy than either. The man Poe we never saw. The best of
him was to come, and it never came. Poe had, however, what he is not always credited with--the
sincerity and earnestness of maturity. He was anything but a mere propounder of riddles. Had
he lived to our day, his office would have been to aid science, so wonderfully advanced in
the intervening third of a century, in solving some of its own. And in addition to that possible
work we should have been none the poorer in the treasures of poetry he actually gave us.

Olivia Raleigh. By W.W. Follett Synge. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

In the few choice words of introduction to the American reprint Mrs. Annis Lee Wister admirably
characterizes this charming novel. It is indeed like a "clear, pure breath of English air:"
from the first page to the last it is redolent of the health of an "incense-breathing morn."
There are no dark scenes here, leaving on the reader a feeling of degradation that such things
can be--no impossible villain weaving a web of intricate or purposeless villainy--but all is
fresh and genuine, and we close the volume with a sense of gratitude that such a story is possible.

Even if this be not in itself a recommendation sufficient to enlist the interest of novel-readers,
Olivia Raleigh is something more: it is a work of art: there is in it nothing crude or hasty
or ill-digested. Around the four or five prominent characters all the interest centres, and
the attention is not distracted by any wearisome episodes that have nothing to do with the
main story. The characters are admirably thought out, and reveal themselves more by their actions
than by any microscopical analysis of motives. They pass before us like veritable human beings,
and what they are we learn from what they do. The transformation of one of the characters from
a gay, debonnair bachelor past middle age into a penurious miser of the Blueberry-Jones type
is bold, and in less skilful hands would be a blemish, but Mr. Synge has amply justified it,
and admirably uses it to cement the structure of his plot. There is no weakness in any chapter,
and as we read so secure do we feel in the author's strength that, had he chosen to end the
story in sorrow and not in joy, we should submit as though to an inflexible decree of Fate.

Les Koumiassine. Par Henry Gréville. Paris: Plon.

It is always interesting to watch the course of French fiction, because while the novel is
in all countries at the present time the favorite form of expression of those writers who eschew
scientific work on the one side and stand aloof from poetry on the other, in France, which
is noticeably the country where theories are put into practice as well as invented, all sorts
of literary methods have their clever defenders, who furnish examples of what they preach.
Since Balzac and George Sand died, the post of leading novelist has been vacant, although there
has been no lack of writers of the second or third, and especially of still lower, rank. Octave
Feuillet still produces occasionally a clever piece of workmanship; Cherbuliez at intervals
writes a novel which proves how lamentable a thing is the possession of brilliancy alone apart
from the seriousness of character, or of some sides of character, which must exist alongside
of even high intellectual qualities in order that the man may make a lasting impression on
his time. Great gifts frittered away on meaningless trifles are as disappointing as possible,
and are the more disappointing in proportion to the greatness of the gifts; so that the decadence
of Cherbuliez--or, if this is too severe, his lack of improvement after his brilliant beginning--is
a very melancholy thing. Zola is among the younger men, the head of a number of enthusiasts
who revel in the exact study of social ordure, and who threaten to destroy fiction by ridding
it of what makes its life--imagination, that is--and substituting for it scientific fact. Theuriet
is an amiable but by no means a powerful writer, who so far has contented himself with following
different models without striking out any special path of his own.

Henry Gréville is a new author, who has reached by no means the highest, yet a very respectable,
place--such as would be a source of gratification to most people. The name signed to her novels
is the nom-de-plume of a lady who, as is also apparent from her work, has lived long enough
in Russia to become familiar with the people and their ways. Les Koumiassine is a story of
Russian life, treating of a rich family whose name gives the title to the novel. The family
is one of great wealth, and consists of the Count Koumiassine and his wife, their two children--one
a boy of nine or ten, the other a girl half a dozen years older--and a niece of about seventeen.
The plot concerns itself with the efforts of the countess to give her niece, whom she values
much less than her daughter, a suitable husband. The poor girl is bullied and badgered after
the most approved methods of domestic tyranny, and her high-spirited struggle against adverse
circumstances makes the book as readable as one could wish. After all, the family is a microcosm,
and furnishes frequent opportunity for the practice of good or bad qualities; and the cleverest
novel-writers have chosen just this subject which seems so bald to the romantic writer. The
contest in this case is a long one, and is hotly contested, and the imperiousness of the countess
and the graceful courage of the girl are excellently well described. The other characters too
are clearly put before the reader, so that those who exercise care in their choice of French
novels may take up this one with the certainty that they will be entertained, and, what is
rarer, innocently entertained. For in a large pile of French novels it would be hard to find
so pretty a story so well told as is the intimacy between the two young girls, the cousins,
who in their different ways circumvent Fate in the person of the countess. Their amiability
and jollity and loyalty to each other give the book an air of attractive truthfulness and refinement
which well replaces the priggishness generally to be found in innocuous French fiction. More
than this, the plot is intelligently handled, and no person is introduced who is not carefully
studied. In this respect of careful execution the author resembles Tourgueneff, whose friend
and disciple she is. Like him, and like those who have been affected by his influence, she
gives attention to the minor characters and comparatively insignificant incidents, so that
the book makes a really lifelike impression. This is not a story of great passion, but it deals
very cleverly with the less open waters of domestic strife. While what it shows of human nature
in general is the most important thing, what is shown of Russian life is of great interest.
The position of the countess, and the habit of her mind with its over-bearing self-will and
ingenious self-approval, are studies possible, of course, anywhere, but pretty sure to be found
especially in a land like Russia, where the habit of command was until recently so strongly
fostered by the existence of serfdom. The condition of those who are exposed to this aggressive
imperiousness is clearly illustrated in the numerous dependants who make their appearance in
this story. But it is the countess who is the best drawn and most impressive personage. She
is really lifelike, and yet not a commonplace figure.

Books Received.

Disease of the Mind: Notes on the Early Management, European and American Progress, Modern
Methods, etc., in the Treatment of Insanity, with especial reference to the needs of Massachusetts
and the United States. By Charles F. Folsom, M.D. Boston: A. Williams & Co.

Cicero's Tusculan Disputations; also Treatises on The Nature of the Gods, and on The Commonwealth.
Literally translated by C.D. Yonge. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Shakespeare: The Man and the Book. Being a collection of Occasional Papers on the Bard and
his Writings. Part I. By C.M. Ingleby, M.A. London: Trübner & Co.

Shakespeare's Comedy of a Midsummer Night's Dream. Edited with Notes by William J. Rolfe, A.M.
New York: Harper & Brothers.

Four Irrepressibles; or, The Tribe of Benjamin: Their Summer with Aunt Agnes, what they Did,
and what they Undid. Boston: Loring.

The Magnetism of Iron Vessels, with a Short Treatise on Terrestrial Magnetism. By Fairman Rogers.
New York: D. Van Nostrand.

Virgin Soil. By Ivan Tourgueneff. From the French by T.S. Perry. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New
York: Henry Holt & Co.

Personal Appearance and the Culture of Beauty. By T.S. Sozinsky, M.D., Ph.D. Philadelphia:
Allen, Lane & Scott.

An English Commentary on the Tragedies of Euripides. By Charles Anthon, LL.D. New York: Harper
& Brothers.

Strength of Men and Stability of Nations. By P.A. Chadbourne, D.D., LL.D. New York: G.P. Putnam's
Sons.

Eighth Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts. Boston: Albert J. Wright.
State Printer.

The Antelope and Deer of America. By John Dean Caton, LL.D. New York: Hurd & Houghton.

G.T.T.; or, The Wonderful Adventures of a Pullman. By Edward E. Hale. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Until the Day Break. By Mrs. J.M.D. Bartlett ("Birch Arnold"). Philadelphia: Porter & Coates.

Other People's Children. By the author of "Helen's Babies." New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Poet and Merchant. By B. Auerbach. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New York: Henry Holt & Co.

Mental Education. By J. Edward Cranage, M.A., Ph.D. London: Bemrose & Sons.

Beautiful Edith, the Child-Woman. (Loring's Tales of the Day.) Boston: Loring.

Aliunde; or, Love Ventures of Tom, Dick and Harry. New York: Charles P. Somerby.

Ideals made Real: A Romance. By George L. Raymond. New York: Hurd & Houghton.

Lola. By A. Griffiths. (Leisure-Hour Series.) New York: Henry Holt & Co.

Kilmeny: A Novel. By William Black. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Winstowe: A Novel. By Mrs. Leith-Adams. New York: Harper & Brothers.