Kinglake first met her at Lady Holland's in 1870, and mutual liking ripened rapidly into close
friendship.  During her residences in England few days passed in which he did not present himself
at her drawing-room in Claridge's Hotel:  when absent in Russia or on the Continent, she received
from him weekly letters, though he used to complain that writing to a lady through the poste
restante was like trying to kiss a nun through a double grating.  These letters, all faithfully
preserved, I have been privileged to see; they remind me, in their mixture of personal with
narrative charm, of Swift's "Letters to Stella"; except that Swift's are often coarse and sometimes
prurient, while Kinglake's chivalrous admiration for his friend, though veiled occasionally
by graceful banter, is always respectful and refined.  They even imitate occasionally the "little
language" of the great satirist; if Swift was Presto, Kinglake is "Poor dear me"; if Stella
was M. D., Madame Novikoff is "My dear Miss."  This last endearment was due to an incident
at a London dinner table.  A story told by Hayward, seasoned as usual with gros sel, amused
the more sophisticated English ladies present, but covered her with blushes.  Kinglake perceived
it, and said to her afterwards, "I thought you were a hardened married woman; I am glad that
you are not; I shall henceforth call you MISS."  Sometimes he rushes into verse.  In answer
to some pretended rebuff received from her at Ryde he writes

"There was a young lady of Ryde, so awfully puffed up by pride, She felt grander by far than
the Son of the Czar, And when he said, 'Dear, come and walk on the pier, Oh please come and
walk by my side;' The answer he got, was 'Much better not,' from that awful young lady of Ryde."

Oftenest, the letters are serious in their admiring compliments; they speak of her superb organization
of health and life and strength and joyousness, the delightful sunshine of her presence, her
decision and strength of will, her great qualities and great opportunities:  "away from you
the world seems a blank."  He is glad that his Great Eltchi has been made known to her; the
old statesman will be impressed, he feels sure, by her "intense life, graciousness and grace,
intellect carefully masked, musical faculty in talk, with that heavenly power of coming to
an end."  He sends playfully affectionate messages from other members of the Gerontaion, as
he calls it, the group of aged admirers who formed her inner court; echoing their laments over
the universality of her patronage.  "Hayward can pardon your having an ambassador or two at
your FEET, but to find the way to your HEART obstructed by a crowd of astronomers, Russ-expansionists,
metaphysicians, theologians, translators, historians, poets;--this is more than he can endure.
The crowd reduces him, as Ampere said to Mme. Recamier, to the qualified blessing of being
only chez vous, from the delight of being avec vous.  He hails and notifies additions to the
list of her admirers; quotes enthusiastic praise of her from Stansfeld and Charles Villiers,
warm appreciation from Morier, Sir Robert Peel, Violet Fane.  He rallies her on her victims,
jests at Froude's lover-like galanterie--"Poor St. Anthony! how he hovered round the flame";--at
the devotion of that gay Lothario, Tyndall, whose approaching marriage will, he thinks, clip
his wings for flirtation.  "It seems that at the Royal Institution, or whatever the place is
called, young women look up to the Lecturers as priests of Science, and go to them after the
lecture in what churchmen would call the vestry, and express charming little doubts about electricity,
and pretty gentle disquietudes about the solar system:  and then the Professors have to give
explanations;--and then, somehow, at the end of a few weeks, they find they have provided themselves
with chaperons for life."  So he pursues the list of devotees; her son will tell her that Caesar
summarized his conquests in this country by saying Veni, Vidi, Vici; but to her it is given
to say, Veni, Videbar, Vici.

On two subjects, theology and politics, Madame Novikoff was, as we have seen, passionately
in earnest.  Himself at once an amateur casuist and a consistent Nothingarian, whose dictum
was that "Important if true" should be written over the doors of churches, he followed her
religious arguments much as Lord Steyne listened to the contests between Father Mole and the
Reverend Mr. Trail.  He expresses his surprise in all seriousness that the Pharisees, a thoughtful
and cultured set of men, who alone among the Jews believed in a future state, should have been
the very men to whom our Saviour was habitually antagonistic.  He refers more lightly and frequently
to "those charming talks of ours about our Churches"; he thinks they both know how to effleurer
the surface of theology without getting drowned in it.  Of existing Churches he preferred the
English, as "the most harmless going"; disliked the Latin Church, especially when intriguing
in the East, as persecuting and as schismatic, and therefore as no Church at all. Roman Catholics,
he said, have a special horror of being called "schismatic," and that is, of course, a good
reason for so calling them.  He would not permit the use of the word "orthodox," because, like
a parson in the pulpit, it is always begging the question.  He refused historical reverence
to the Athanasian Creed, and was delighted when Stanley's review in "The Times" of Mr. Ffoulkes'
learned book showed it to have been written by order of Charles the Great in 800 A.D. as what
Thorold Rogers used to call "an election squib."  In the "Filioque" controversy, once dear
to Liddon and to Gladstone, now, I suppose, obsolete for the English mind, but which relates
to the chief dividing tenet of East from West, he showed an interest humorous rather than reverent;
took pains to acquaint himself with the views held on it by Dollinger and the old Catholics;
noted with amusement the perplexity of London ladies as to the meaning of the word when quoted
in the much-read "Quarterly" article, declaring their belief to be that it was a clergyman's
baby born out of wedlock.

Madame Novikoff's political influence, which he recognized to the full, he treated in the same
mocking spirit.  She is at Berlin, received by Bismarck; he hopes that though the great man
may not eradicate her Slavophile heresies, he may manifest the weakness of embroiling nations
on mere ethnological grounds.  "Are even nearer relationships so delightful? would you walk
across the street for a third or fourth cousin? then why for a millionth cousin?"  Madame Novikoff
kindly sends to me an "Imaginary Conversation" between herself and Gortschakoff, constructed
by Kinglake during her stay in St. Petersburg in 1879.

"G.  Well--you really have done good service to your country and your Czar by dividing and
confusing these absurd English, and getting us out of the scrape we were in in that--Balkan
Peninsula.

"Miss O.  Well, certainly I did my best; but I fear I have ruined the political reputation
of my English partizans, for in order to make them 'beloved of the Slave,' I of course had
to make them, poor souls! go against their own country; and their country, stupid as it is,
has now I fear found them out.

"G.  Tant pis pour eux!  Entre nous, if I had been Gladstone, I should have preferred the love
of my own country to the love of these--Slaves of yours.  But, tell me, how did you get hold
of Gladstone?

"Miss O.  Rien de plus simple!  Four or five years ago I asked what was his weak point, and
was told that he had two, 'Effervescence,' and 'Theology.'  With that knowledge I found it
all child's play to manage him.  I just sent him to Munich, and there boiled him up in a weak
decoction of 'Filioque,' then kept him ready for use, and impatiently awaited the moment when
our plans for getting up the 'Bulgarian atrocities' should be mature.  I say 'impatiently,'
for, Heavens, how slow you all were! at least so it strikes a woman. The arrangement of the
'atrocities' was begun by our people in 1871, and yet till 1876, though I had Gladstone ready
in 1875, nothing really was done!  I assure you, Prince, it is a trying thing to a woman to
be kept waiting for promised atrocities such an unconscionable time.

"G.  That brother-in-law of yours was partly the cause of our slowness.  He was always wanting
to have the orders for fire and blood in neat formal despatches, signed by me, and copied by
clerks.  However, I hope you are satisfied now, with the butcheries and the flames, and the--?

"Miss O.  Pour le moment!"

She is absent during the sudden dissolution of Parliament in 1874. "London woke yesterday morning
and found that your friend Gladstone had made a coup-d'etat.  He has dissolved Parliament at
a moment when no human being expected it, and my impression is that he has made a good hit,
and that the renovated Parliament will give him a great majority." The impression was wildly
wrong; and he found a cause for the Conservative majority in Gladstone's tame foreign policy,
and especially in the pusillanimity his government showed when insulted by Gortschakoff.  He
always does justice to her influence with Gladstone; his great majority at the polls in 1880
is HER victory and HER triumph; but his Turkophobia is no less her creation:  "England is stricken
with incapacity because you have stirred up the seething caldron that boils under Gladstone's
skull, putting in diabolical charms and poisons of theology to overturn the structure of English
polity:" she will be able, he thinks, to tell her government that Gladstone is doing his best
to break up the British Empire.

He quotes with approbation the newspaper comparison of her to the Princess Lieven.  She disparages
the famous ambassadress; he sets her right.  Let her read the "Correspondence," by his friend
Mr. Guy Le Strange, and she will see how large a part the Princess played in keeping England
quiet during the war of 1828-29.  She did not convert her austere admirer, Lord Grey, to approval
of the Russian designs, nor overcome the uneasiness with which the Duke of Wellington regarded
her intrigues; but the Foreign Minister, Lord Aberdeen, was apparently a fool in her hands;
and, whoever had the merit, the neutrality of England continued.  That was, he repeats more
than once, a most critical time for Russia; it was an object almost of life and death to the
Czar to keep England dawdling in a state of actual though not avowed neutrality.  It is, he
argued, a matter of fact, that precisely this result was attained, and "I shall be slow to
believe that Madame de Lieven did not deserve a great share of the glory (as you would think
it) of making England act weakly under such circumstances; more especially since we know that
the Duke did not like the great lady, and may be supposed to have distinctly traced his painful
embarrassment to her power."  So the letters go, interspersed with news, with criticisms of
notable persons, with comments enlightening or cynical on passing political events:  with personal
matters only now and then; as when he notes the loss of his two sisters; dwells with unwonted
feeling on the death of his eldest nephew by consumption; condoles with her on her husband's
illness; gives council, wise or playful, as to the education of her son.  "I am glad to hear
that he is good at Greek, Latin, and Mathematics, for that shows his cleverness; glad also
to hear that he is occasionally naughty, for that shows his force.  I advise you to claim and
exercise as much control as possible, because I am certain that a woman--especially so gifted
a one as you--knows more, or rather feels more, about the right way of bringing up a boy than
any mere man."

Unbrokenly the correspondence continues:  the intimacy added charm, interest, fragrance to
his life, brought out in him all that was genial, playful, humorous.  He fights the admonitions
of coming weakness; goes to Sidmouth with a sore throat, but takes his papers and his books.
It is, he says, a deserted little sea-coast place. "Mrs. Grundy has a small house there, but
she does not know me by sight.  If Madame Novikoff were to come, the astonished little town,
dazzled first by her, would find itself invaded by theologians, bishops, ambassadors of deceased
emperors, and an ex- Prime-Minister."  But as time goes on he speaks more often of his suffering
throat; of gout, increasing deafness, only half a voice: his last letter is written in July,
1890, to condole with his friend upon her husband's death.  In October his nurse takes the
pen; Madame Novikoff comes back hurriedly from Scotland to find him in his last illness.  "It
is very nice," he told his nurse, "to see dear Madame Novikoff again, but I am going down hill
fast, and cannot hope to be well enough to see much of her."  This is in November, 1890; on
New Year's Eve came the inexorable, "Terminator of delights and Separator of friends."

CHAPTER VI--LATER DAYS, AND DEATH

For twenty years Kinglake lived in Hyde Park Place, in bright cheerful rooms looking in one
direction across the Park, but on another side into a churchyard.  The churchyard, Lady Gregory
tells us, gave him pause on first seeing the rooms.  "I should not like to live here, I should
be afraid of ghosts."  "Oh no, sir, there is always a policeman round the corner." {24}  "Pleaceman
X." has not, perhaps, before been revered as the Shade-compelling son of Maia:

"Tu pias laetis animas reponis Sedibus, virgaque levem coerces Aurea turbam."

Here he worked through the morning; the afternoon took him to the "Travellers," where his friends,
Sir Henry Bunbury and Mr. Chenery, usually expected him; then at eight o'clock, if not, as
Shylock says, bid forth, he went to dine at the Athenaeum.  His dinner seat was in the left-hand
corner of the coffee-room, where, in the thirties, Theodore Hook had been wont to sit, gathering
near him so many listeners to his talk, that at Hook's death in 1841 the receipts for the club
dinners fell off to a large amount.  Here, in the "Corner," as they called it, round Kinglake
would be Hayward, Drummond Wolff, Massey, Oliphant, Edward Twisleton, Strzelecki, Storks, Venables,
Wyke, Bunbury, Gregory, American Ticknor, and a few more; Sir W. Stirling Maxwell, when in
Scotland, sending hampers of pheasants to the company.  "Hurried to the Athenaeum for dinner,"
says Ticknor in 1857, "and there found Kinglake and Sir Henry Rawlinson, to whom were soon
added Hayward and Stirling.  We pushed our tables together and had a jolly dinner. . . . To
the Athenaeum; and having dined pleasantly with Merivale, Kinglake, and Stirling, I hurried
off to the House."  In later years, when his voice grew low and his hearing difficult, he preferred
that the diners should resolve themselves into little groups, assigning to himself a tete-a-tete,
with whom at his ease he could unfold himself.

No man ever fought more gallantly the encroachments of old age--on sut etre jeune jusque dans
ses vieux jours.  At seventy-four years old, staying with a friend at Brighton, he insisted
on riding over to Rottingdean, where Sir Frederick Pollock was staying.  "I mastered," he said,
in answer to remonstrances, "I mastered the peculiarities of the Brighton screw before you
were born, and have never forgotten them."  Vaulting into his saddle he rode off, returning
with a schoolboy's delight at the brisk trot he had found practicable when once clear of the
King's Road.  Long after his hearing had failed, his sight become grievously weakened, and
his limbs not always trustworthy, he would never allow a cab to be summoned for him after dinner,
always walking to his lodgings.  But he had to give up by and by his daily canter in Rotten
Row, and more reluctantly still his continental travel.  Foreign railways were closed to him
by the Salle d'Attente; he could not stand incarceration in the waiting-rooms.

The last time he crossed the Channel was at the close of the Franco-Prussian war, on a visit
to his old friend M. Thiers, then President.  In Sir Charles's motion Kinglake took much interest,
refusing to join in the cry against it as disloyal.  Sir Charles, he said, spoke no word against
the Queen; and only brought the matter before the House because challenged to repeat in Parliament
the statements he had made in the country.  As a matter of policy he thought it mistaken: 
"Move in such a matter openly, and party discipline compels your defeat; bring pressure to
bear on a Cabinet, some of its members are on your side, and you may gain your point."  Sir
Charles's speech was calmly argumentative, and to many minds convincing; it provoked a passionate
reply from Gladstone; and when Mr. Auberon Herbert following declared himself a Republican,
a tumult arose such as in those pre-Milesian days had rarely been witnessed in the House. 
But the wisdom of Kinglake's counsel is sustained by the fact that many years afterwards, as
a result of more private discussion, Mr. Gladstone pronounced his conversion to the two bases
of the motion, publicity, and the giving of the State allowance to the head of the family rather
than, person by person, to the children and grandchildren of the Sovereign.  Action pointing
in this direction was taken in 1889 and 1901 on the advice of Tory ministers.

Amongst Frenchmen of the highest class, intellectually and socially, he had many valued friends,
keeping his name on the "Cosmopolitan" long after he had ceased to visit it, since "one never
knows when the distinguished foreigner may come upon one, and of such the Cosmo is the London
Paradise."  But he used to say that in the other world a good Frenchman becomes an Englishman,
a bad Englishman becomes a Frenchman.  He saw in the typical Gaul a compound of the tiger and
the monkey; noted their want of individuality, their tendency to go in flocks, their susceptibility
to panic and to ferocity, to the terror that makes a man kill people, and "the terror that
makes him lie down and beg."  We remember, too, his dissection of St. Arnaud, as before all
things a type of his nation; "he impersonated with singular exactness the idea which our forefathers
had in their minds when they spoke of what they called 'a Frenchman;' for although (by cowing
the rich and by filling the poor with envy), the great French Revolution had thrown a lasting
gloom on the national character, it left this one man untouched.  He was bold, gay, reckless,
vain; but beneath the mere glitter of the surface there was a great capacity for administrative
business, and a more than common willingness to take away human life."

