"Now, Dot, there's berries enough. We'll pick him. It won't do to have him come and pick some
of your father's pigs."

"Would he pick me?"

"Not unless the berries were all gone, and the nuts too, and the pigs. But I'm glad Bob got
away with ye. He might have mistaken ye for a berry."

"I wasn't in a pail; I got behind a tree."

Dot had been pretty well scared, but Bruin had behaved very well, except about the berries,
and she was not half so much frightened as the older children were. Molly and Betsy came and
hugged her ever so hard, and Johnny Coyne exclaimed,

"Tell you what, Joe, if I'd had a gun!"

"Oh, don't I wish I'd had a gun!" echoed Pen Burke; and then they both said they'd bring guns
with them the next time they came after berries.

Bob Calliper must have been a good runner, and his father too, for it was wonderful how soon
the noise they made among the bushes below told that they were coming.

That was not all, either, for a little distance behind them was Mrs. Calliper herself, all
out of breath, with the baby in her arms, and she was not nearly so careful as usual in handing
the baby to Molly, she was in such a hurry to hug Dot, and kiss her, and exclaim, "Dear! dear!
dear! My pet! Bears! Oh, Dot, bears! Berries! My precious!"

"The bear dot the berries, mamma."

"Berries indeed! Who cares for berries!"

Joe Mix asked, the moment Bob came near enough, "Any slugs for me?"

And Bob held out to him a handful of buckshot and rifle-bullets.

Joe had been drawing the old charge out of his gun, and loading it again with more powder,
and now he poured in half a dozen big buckshot and three bullets.

"They'll do for slugs. Got yer rifle, Mr. Calliper?"

"No, Bob's brought that. I've got my double-barrelled deer gun, and I've stuck an awful charge
into it."

"That'll do."

"Mary Jane," said her husband to Mrs. Calliper, "you and the children go on down the hill.
Pen, you and Johnny see if you can't haul out that old stone-boat. It lies up this way, close
to the foot of the mountain. We'll need it to get the bear home."

"Oh, mamma," exclaimed Dot, "is the bear comin' to our house?"

She knew very well that if he did, he would eat up all the berries that were spread out on
the roof to dry, but her father and Joe Mix and Bob hurried away in the direction of the big
chestnut.

Mrs. Calliper would not let any of the children go, but she put down Dot to carry the baby.

Pen and Johnny were a little sulky at not being allowed to help hunt the bear, but they were
glad to have something to do, and went on after the stone-boat.

That was a kind of flat sled, made of a thick piece of plank, and used to haul stones on, and
they found it just where Mr. Calliper said.

He and Joe and Bob went on up the mountain-side more and more carefully, but they had not far
to go, and pretty soon Bob whispered, "There he is; he hasn't gone."

"Got a pail on each side of him, and another in his lap," said his father.

"Now," said Joe, "we've got him. We must all shoot together. Keep yer second barrel a moment,
Mr. Calliper. Then give it to him."

Joe was an old hunter, and he wasn't good for anything else; but he knew all about bears.

Mrs. Calliper and the children heard the guns go off pretty quickly after that--bang! bang!
bang! and then another bang.

"Oh dear! I hope they won't either of them get hurt!"

There was no danger of that, for the distance had been short, and ever so many slugs and buckshot
had struck Dot's bear almost at the same time. He dropped the pail and rolled over on the ground,
and he could not have hurt any one after that. He could not have picked a blackberry.

There came a great shout of triumph down the mountain-side. "Mary Jane! come and look at him!"

The boys heard it, and they tugged harder than ever at the stone-boat.

Such a bear that was!

"Such a berry big bear!" said Dot.

It was hard enough work to get him upon the stone-boat after it came, and Mr. Calliper and
Joe Mix and Bob were so long in dragging that load to Mr. Calliper's house that the children
had time to pick the three big pails full of berries again.

Joe Mix sat down on a log in front of the door, and mopped his face with his handkerchief,
and Pen and Johnny took a useless pull at the stone-boat with the bear on it, and Mrs. Calliper
stood behind her husband and hugged the baby.

They had put the three pails of berries down only a few feet from the nose of the bear as he
lay on the stone-boat, and Jessie Mack and Betsy went and stood behind the pails, where they
were safe, but Dot wasn't a bit afraid of that bear now. She toddled close up to her father,
as he stood at the head of the stone-boat, and looked down on the great furry berry picker.

"He didn't pick me, papa."

"No, Dot," remarked Joe Mix; "he couldn't sit up now ef you brung him all the berries you've got."

"He's a poor, dood, dead bear," said Dot, pityingly. "Poor bear!"

"Wa'al, no, Dot," said Joe, "he's the fattest bar I ever hauled on. It's all along of thar
being sech heaps and heaps of berries this year."

IN THE SWING.

BY M. M.

  Oh, swing me high, and swing me low,
    Under the linden-tree,
  Whose fragrant blossoms, like a shower,
    Fall down and cover me.

  The sunshine flickers through the leaves
    As to and fro I swing;
  Gay butterflies go flashing by;
    Birds in the tree-top sing.

  The brook tells stories to the flowers
    The livelong summer day;
  And everywhere the earth is bright,
    And all the world is gay.

  So swing me high, and swing me low,
    Under the linden-tree,
  And let the blossoms, like a shower,
    Fall down and cover me.

PEARLS--REAL AND IMITATION.

While on their way from Bangkok to Singapore, Frank and Fred were much interested in accounts
of some of the wonders of the Eastern seas given them by Captain Johnson, a fellow-passenger.
In answer to some of their inquiries about pearls, he gave them the following information:

"One of the favorite fishing grounds for pearls is at Bahrein, on the Persian Gulf. The divers
bring in the oysters from the fishing banks in the Gulf, and pile them on the shore in great
heaps. Here they lie till they are rotted; and the stench that arises is enough to turn any
inexperienced stomach. When the substance of the oyster is quite decomposed, the shells are
opened, and the mass of matter they contain is thrown into tubs, and washed with water. It
is necessary to pass the pulp very carefully through the fingers, for fear that some of the
pearls will be lost, and consequently the washing is very slow. When a pearl beyond a certain
size is found, the washer receives a handsome present; but below the regulation figure he gets
nothing but his daily wages. Large pearls are very rare, and consequently the chances that
a pearl-washer will make a fortune by a lucky find are exceedingly small.

"There is a belief quite current through the East that the pearl is a drop of rain-water which
has fallen into the shell of the oyster when he was at the surface, and been afterward hardened.
This is a pretty bit of sentiment; but as the oyster never goes to the surface unless he is
carried there, the story does not have much foundation to rest upon."

"If the pearl is so valuable, and so difficult to get, I should think there would be men who
would try to imitate it," Frank remarked.

"You are quite right," was the reply; "and men have tried a great many times to make false pearls."

"Have they succeeded?"

"Partially, but not altogether. No counterfeit pearls have yet been made that could pass all
the tests of the genuine; but their lustre is quite equal sometimes to the best pearls of Ceylon,
and they can be made to deceive anybody but an expert."

"How do they make them?"

"The best of the false pearls," said the Captain, "are made by what is known as Jaquin's process.
M. Jaquin was a manufacturer of beads in France, and he spent a great deal of time and money
in trying to make his beads better than any other man's. One day he was walking in his garden,
and observed a remarkably silvery lustre on some water in a basin. It instantly occurred to
him that if he could put that lustre on his beads, he would have something decidedly new.

"So he called his old servant, and asked what had been in the water. She answered that it was
nothing but some little fish called ablettes, that had been crushed in the basin, and she had
neglected to throw the water out.

"M. Jaquin was very glad, for once, that she had neglected her duty. He began experimenting
with the scales of the ablette, or bleak--a little fish about the size of a sardine, and very
abundant in certain parts of Europe. After several trials he adopted the plan of washing the
scales several times in water, and saving the sediment that gathered at the bottom of the basin.
This was about the consistency of oil, and had the lustre he desired. Next, he blew some beads
of very thin glass, and after coating the inside of a bead with this substance, he filled it
up with wax, so as to give it solidity. Thus the fish scales gave the lustre, the glass gave
the polish and brilliancy that we find on the genuine pearl, and the wax furnished a solid
backing to the thin glass. It is fortunate that the bleak is very abundant, or he would run
the risk of extermination."

"Is the manufacture of false pearls so great as that?" Fred inquired.

"It is pretty extensive," was the Captain's response, "but not enormously so. The fact is,
it requires more than a thousand of these little fish to make an ounce of the 'essence d'Orient,'
as the French call it, or essence of pearl. Other substances have been tried, in the hope of
obtaining the same result for a smaller outlay, but none of them have been entirely successful.

"In China and Japan the natives have long followed the practice of putting small beads of porcelain
inside the oyster, and then returning him to the water, where he is left undisturbed for three
or four years. At the end of that time he is taken up and opened, and the beads are found to
be coated with the pearly substance. They also have the trick of putting little images or idols
into the oyster, and in course of time these become coated over in the manner I have described."

The next morning the boys awoke early, having had a thoroughly good night's rest. Tom, whose
turn it was to go for milk, found a well-stocked farm-house, where he obtained not only milk,
bread, and eggs, but a supply of butter, and a chicken all ready for cooking. After breakfast
the boat was put in the water, and, to the delight of all, proved to be almost as tight as
she was before running into the rock. A little water came in at first under the edges of the
zinc, but in a short time the wood swelled, and the leak entirely ceased.

The boat was loaded, and the boys were ready to start soon after six o'clock. There was no
wind, but the two long oars, pulled one by Tom and the other by Jim, sent her along at a fine
rate. They rowed until ten o'clock, resting occasionally for a few moments, and then, as there
were no signs of a breeze, and as it was growing excessively hot, they went ashore, to wait
until afternoon before resuming their journey.

The sun became hotter and hotter. The boys tried to fish, but there was no shade near the bank
of the river, and it was too hot to stand or sit in the sunshine and wait for fish to bite.
They went in swimming, but the sun, beating on their heads, seemed hotter while they were in
the water than it did when they were on the land. Jim and Joe tried a game of mumble-to-peg,
but they gave it up long before they had reached "cars." It was probably the hottest day of
the year; and as it was clearly impossible to row or to do anything else while the heat lasted,
the boys brought their blankets from the boat, and going to a grove not far from the shore,
lay down and fell asleep.

They were astonished to find, when they awoke, that it was two o'clock. None of them had been
accustomed to sleep in the daytime, and they could not understand how it came about that they
had all slept for fully two hours. They had yet to learn that one of the results of "camping
out," or living in the open air, is an ability to sleep at almost any time. All animals and
wild creatures, whether they are beasts or savages, have this happy faculty of sleeping in
the daytime. It is one of the habits of our savage ancestors that comes back to us when we
abandon civilization, and live as Aryan tribes, from whom we are descended, lived in the far
East, before they marched with their wives and children and cattle from India, and made themselves
new homes in Europe.

After lunch the boys prepared to start, although there was still no wind; but when they went
down to the boat they found that the sun was as hot as ever. So they returned to the shade
of the grove, and made up their minds to stay there until the end of the afternoon.

"Harry," said Tom, "we've been on the river three days, and we are only a little way above
Hudson. How much longer will it be before we get to Albany?"

"We ought to get there in two days more, even if we have to row all the way," replied Harry.

"And after we get to Albany, what are we to do next?"

"We are going up the Champlain Canal to Fort Edward. There we will have a wagon to carry us
and the boat to Warrensburg, on the Schroon River, and will go up the river to Schroon Lake.
Uncle John laid out the route for us."

"How many days will it take us to get to the lake?" asked Tom.

Harry thought awhile. "There's two days more on the Hudson, two on the canal, and maybe two
on the Schroon River. And then there's a Sunday, which don't count. It'll be just a week before
we get to the lake."

"I've got to be home by two weeks from next Monday," continued Tom, "so I sha'n't have much
time on the lake. Can't we get along a little faster? There's a full moon to-night, and suppose
we sail all night--or row, if the wind doesn't come up?"

"That's a first-rate idea," exclaimed Harry. "We can take turns sleeping in the bottom of the
boat. Why, if the breeze comes up in the night, we might make twenty or thirty miles before
morning."

All the boys liked the plan of sailing at night, and they resolved to adopt it. While they
were yet discussing it, a light breeze sprang up, from the south as usual, and they hastened
to take advantage of it. In the course of an hour more the sun began to lose its power; and
when they went ashore at six o'clock to cook their supper, they had sailed about fifteen miles.

As they expected to make so much progress during the night, they were in no hurry about supper,
and it was not until after seven o'clock that they again made sail. Harry divided the crew
into watches--one consisting of himself and Joe Sharpe, and the other of Tom and Jim. Each
watch was to have charge of the boat for three hours, while the other watch slept. At eight
o'clock Tom and Jim lay down in the bottom of the boat, and Joe came aft to take Tom's customary
place at the sheet. Harry, of course, steered.

All went well. The breeze was light but steady, and Harry kept the boat in the middle of the
river to avoid another shipwreck. The watch below did not sleep much, for they had had a long
nap at noon, and, besides, the novelty of their position made them wakeful. They had just dropped
asleep when eleven o'clock arrived, and they were awakened to relieve the other watch. Tom
went sleepily to the helm, and Harry and Joe gladly "turned in," and were soon fast asleep.

Tom always declares that he never closed his eyes while he was at the helm, and Jim also asserts
that he was wide-awake during his entire watch, though neither he nor Tom spoke, for fear of
waking up the other boys. It was strange that these two wide-awake young Moral Pirates did
not notice that a large steamboat--one of the Albany night boats--was in sight, until she was
within a mile of them, and it is just possible that, without knowing it, they were a little
too drowsy to keep a proper look-out.

As soon as Tom saw the steamboat, he remarked, "Halloo! there's one of the Albany boats," and
steered the boat over toward the east shore. The breeze had nearly died away, and the Whitewing
moved very slowly. The steamboat came rapidly down the river, her paddles throbbing loudly
in the night air. Jim began to get a little uneasy, and said, "I hope she won't run us down."

"Oh, there's no danger!" replied Tom; "we shall get out of her way easy enough."

But, to his dismay, the steamboat, instead of keeping in the middle of the river, presently
turned toward the east shore, as if she were bent upon running down the Whitewing. Tom was
now really alarmed; and as he saw that the sail was doing very little good, he hurriedly told
Jim to take down the mast and get out the oars as quick as possible. Jim rapidly obeyed the
order, dropping the mast on Harry's head, and catching Joe by the nose in his search for the
oars. By this time Tom had begun to hail the steamboat at the top of his lungs; but no attention
was paid to him by the steamboat men, since the noise of the paddles drowned Tom's voice. Harry
and Joe, who were now wide-awake, saw what danger they were in, and they sprang to the oars.
The steamboat was frightfully near, and still hugging the shore; but Tom called on the boys
to give way with their oars, and steered straight for the shore, knowing that there must be
room for the boat between the steamboat and the bank of the river, and fearing that if he steered
in the opposite direction the steamboat might change her course and run them down, when they
would have little chance of escape by swimming.

It was certainly very doubtful if they could avoid the steamboat, and Tom was well aware of
it. He told the other boys that, if they were sure to be run down, they must jump before the
steamboat struck them, and dive, so as to escape the paddles. "I'll tell you when to jump,
if worst comes to worst," said he; "but don't you look around now, nor do anything but row.
Row for your lives, boys."

And the boys did row gallantly. Harry had a pair of sculls, and Jim had a long oar, and between
them they made the boat fly through the water. As they neared the shore, it seemed to them
that there was not more than three feet of space between the steamboat and the land; and Tom
had almost made up his mind that the cruise was coming to a sudden end, when the great steamboat
swung her head around, and drew out toward the middle of the river. She did not seem to be
more than a rod from them as she changed her course, though in reality she was probably much
farther off. At the same moment the Whitewing reached what appeared to be the shore, but what
was really a long row of piles projecting about a foot above the water. The boys had just ceased
rowing, and Tom had given the boat a sheer with the rudder, so as to bring her alongside of
the piles, when the steamboat's swell, which the boys, in their excitement over their narrow
escape, had totally forgotten, came rushing up, seized the boat, and threw it over the piles
into a shallow and muddy lagoon.

It was almost miraculous that the boat was not capsized; but she was actually lifted up and
thrown over the piles, without taking more than a few quarts of spray into her. When they saw
that they were absolutely safe, the boys began to wonder how in the world they could get the
boat back into the river, and Jim proposed to light the lantern and see if anything was missing
out of the boat, and if she had been injured.

"Now I see why the steamboat did not notice us," exclaimed Tom.

"Why?" asked all the others together.

"Because," he replied, "we have been such everlasting idiots as to sail at night without showing
a light."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

HOW GIL PLAYED VENTRILOQUIST.

BY JAMES B. MARSHALL.

It was before Dora and Gil Norman came back to the city last fall with their mamma from Farmer
Jonathan's, where their papa joined them every Saturday afternoon and staid until Monday morning.
If you had asked Dora or Gil what the farmer's full name was, the answer would probably have
been, "Why, Farmer Jonathan, of course." Every one called him Farmer Jonathan, but his letters
were usually directed, "Mr. Jonathan Wainwright."

One morning he came to the house from his great barn, and told Dora and Gil to go down there
and see the largest load of hay that he had ever had on his hay-wagon.

Going to the barn, they saw the huge load of hay waiting for the horses to be put to the wagon
tongue, and a long ladder reared against the wagon, by which the farm men had descended from
the top of the load after completing it.

"I'm going to the top to see how high it looks," said Gil, beginning to climb.

Dora watched him until he was about half way up the ladder, and then thought that she too would
like to see how high it looked. Gil had not thought of Dora following him, nor of the danger
she would run, even more than his own small self, climbing to that considerable height, until
he had reached the top, and saw that she was half way up. Then he did wisely, encouraging her
to continue to climb rather than frightening her by sending her back, and he joyfully caught
her in his arms, drawing her to the middle of the broad top of the load of hay. When Farmer
Jonathan should come down to the barn to see the horses put to the load, or when Sam should
come with the horses, Gil intended to call out, and have Dora carried down the ladder. Gil
couldn't see over the sides of the hay, but he knew he would hear Farmer Jonathan or Sam the
moment that either of them should come into the barn.

It was so very pleasant to lie half buried on the sweet hay, watching the swallows darting
and circling among the barn rafters away above them, that while Gil was wondering why Dora
should be taking a nap, his own head nodded in sleep.

When Gil awoke, the whole load was shaking, and he called out, "Are you there, Farmer Jonathan?"
Receiving no answer, he rubbed his eyes, and found that he was not in the barn at all. "I've
been asleep," said Gil, sitting up, "and Farmer Jonathan is taking us to town on top of his
hay, and don't know it. That's jolly. When we get to town, and stop, I can make him hear me,
if I can't now, and he will take us down. Then we can see him sell the hay, and afterward,
as we ride home, perhaps he will let us take turns driving."

"Oh, won't that be just splendid!" said Dora, having awakened in time to hear nearly all that
Gil had been saying to himself.

When they began to pass houses, though they could see nothing of them below the second-story
windows, Gil and Dora knew that Farmer Jonathan had reached the town, and was driving along
the streets. Directly Dora discovered the steeple of the church that stood just below their
aunt Mary's house. Then Gil, looking ahead, saw the very house, and, what was more, Cousin
Will eating from a paper of buns while he leaned out of the window to watch the great load
of hay coming down the street. Before the wagon came opposite the window it was going on a
noisy trot; Will caught sight of Dora and Gil on top, and he was so much surprised that, when
Gil made a motion to him to throw them a bun, he threw the whole paperful right on the hay.

While the hay-wagon rolled on, Gil and Dora began eating the buns, and Will disappeared from
the window. He went down stairs four steps at a jump, tumbled into the dining-room, and astonished
Aunt Mary, his mother, very much by demanding, "Oh, mamma dear, can I go and take a ride on
an awful big load of hay?" Aunt Mary was for some time puzzled to know just what her excited
boy meant; but when she did understand, she told him he might go and invite Farmer Jonathan,
Gil, and Dora to dinner. The hay-wagon had then disappeared down the street, and Will had to
stop every few minutes to inquire which way it had gone, for many persons had noticed how large
the load was.

As it was market-day in town, a number of people soon collected around the wagon, when Farmer
Jonathan stopped in front of Grocer Bacon's, and went into the store to ask Bacon if he wouldn't
buy the hay. Gil didn't like to call to Farmer Jonathan while the people stood around, though
by getting as close to the edge of the hay as he dared, Gil could just have a peep at him through
the loose hay, as he stood in the store door talking with Dionysius Bacon.

As Dionysius considered himself a pretty smart fellow, and enjoyed cracking jokes with people,
particularly when the joke was on his side, he went on chaffing Farmer Jonathan about the hay.
He offered to trade brooms, clothes-lines, etc., for it, while those standing around laughed,
and those passing along the street paused to see what the fun was.

"Now is this all nice hay?" asked Dionysius, speaking as though he was done joking, and was
very much in earnest. At the same time he was slyly working a clothes-peg into the hay, which
he intended to find in a moment after, and then go on joking again.

"Every spear of it sweet and dry," was the answer.

"That's so, Grocer Bacon," exclaimed Gil, earnestly, and then lying very quiet, so as not to
be discovered, and also cautioning Dora.

Dionysius Bacon jumped away from the hay, dropped the clothes-peg, and looked foolish, for
the voice seemed to him, as well as to others, to come right out of the middle of the load of hay.

"I didn't know that you pretended to be a ventriloquist, Farmer Jonathan," said he, laughing;
"but if you can't imitate a boy's voice better than that, you should take some more lessons
in the art."

Farmer Jonathan only smiled, and looked about him to see if he could discover who the ventriloquist
was.

"Mr. Dionysius Bacon, don't stand in the sun without your hat," said Gil, in a queer voice.
At this every one laughed and shouted, except Dionysius. Gil and Dora laughed, because the
people did, and this made the others laugh and shout harder than ever.

"Good for you, Farmer Jonathan!" said half a dozen persons. "You ought to hire the Music Hall,
and start a show."

"I don't know anything about ventriloquism," said he, putting his hands into his pockets, and
chuckling at the very idea. At which you could have heard the people's ha! ha! has! and their
shouts of delight a block away.

"Now do you still mean to tell me, Farmer Jonathan, that you are not playing this trick?" asked
the grocer.

"Certainly I do. But why don't you suspect some of these gentlemen?"

Then Dionysius appealed to each one separately, not even missing the boys and girls who had
been drawn to the spot by the merriment; but all denied being able to ventriloquize, and said
that they were sure it had been Farmer Jonathan.

Still, of course, the farmer had to deny it.

"See here," said Dionysius, "I'll buy your hay, and treat every man, girl, and boy present
to Smith's best twenty-five-cent oyster stews, if you're not the man; and if you are, you are
to pay for the stews."

"One, two, three," said Farmer Jonathan, beginning to number those who stood around.

"It don't matter if there are fifty of them," quickly interposed Dionysius; "will you accept
my wager or not?"

"I accept it, of course," said Farmer Jonathan.

Will, having sighted the hay-wagon, just then came running up the street. "Please, Farmer Jonathan,"
said he, "mother wants you to come to our house to dinner, and bring Gil and Dora. May I too
climb up on your hay?"

"Why, my little man, I left Gil and Dora out in the country, at my farm," answered Farmer Jonathan.

"Oh no, you didn't. I saw them on top of your hay-wagon here when you went past our house."

"How are you, Will?" shouted Gil, standing up on the hay.

Then, though the people could see nothing of Gil but his head, they knew at once that Dionysius
Bacon had lost his wager. When Farmer Jonathan and some others had lifted Gil and Dora down
to the sidewalk, they told how they came to be on the hay. Afterward, Farmer Jonathan, Dionysius,
Dora, Gil, and Will headed a procession to Smith's oyster saloon of those who had heard Dionysius
make the wager.

It took forty-two oyster stews to supply all, and if it hadn't been a market-day, and just
about dinner-time, Smith wouldn't have known how to have served them quickly. Forty-two stews,
at a quarter each, you see, would amount to $10.50, and though Smith only charged Dionysius
an even ten-dollar bill, the latter seemed to think that he wouldn't make any more wagers that day.

The hay having been unloaded in the mean time, Farmer Jonathan drove around by Will's home,
stopping long enough to tell Aunt Mary about the ventriloquist, and then continued on to the
farm with Gil and Dora.

But the children hadn't been missed, because mamma thought that they were over at the next
farm-house, and she was looking for their return every moment.

BEETLES.

The great family of beetles is one of the most important in the insect world. In burning sandy
plains, in tropical jungles, in fresh green fields, in bogs and swamps--wherever there is a
bit of earth or water--there are beetles of one kind or another, following out the instincts
assigned to them by nature.

The beetle known as the sacred scarabæus was held in great veneration by the ancient Egyptians,
and is carved in great profusion on their tombs. Small gold and porcelain figures of the scarabæus,
which were strung on necklaces, and used in other ways for personal ornaments, have also been
found in Egyptian sarcophagi.

The way the sacred scarabæus deposits its eggs is a wonderful exhibition of animal instinct.
First collecting an ample supply of the material which the young larvæ will need for food,
she places her eggs in the middle of it. She then rolls it into a lump, and starts with it
on a voyage of discovery. She works backward, pushing the ball containing her eggs behind her,
until she finds soil in which she can burrow and conceal her precious burden. It is said to
be for this peculiarity that the scarabæus was venerated by the ancient Egyptians. The lump
of earth containing the eggs was considered an emblem of fruitfulness, and the devotion of
the scarabæus, which would lose its life rather than its precious eggs, was thought to symbolize
the exceeding love of the Creator toward men.

The tiger-beetles, of which there are many varieties, are one of the most important branches
of the family. They have great hooked jaws, formed to seize the small insects upon which they
live. They can not exist in very cold countries, and they are rarely found in cultivated land,
as they prefer burrowing in loose, sandy soil, where their little homes are not in danger of
being disturbed by the gardener's spade. A remarkable tiger-beetle is the gold-cross of India,
which has a deep velvety black body, and a golden mark on its wings in shape like a St. Andrew's
cross. The prevailing colors of the tiger-beetle are black, green, and blue; but there is a
little Brazilian member of the family of a glistening metallic crimson. It has very long legs,
and prefers climbing among the foliage to living on the ground, like most varieties of the
tiger-beetle. Its movements are very quick. It will pounce like lightning on a fly, which can
rarely escape the grasp of this formidable enemy.

A very curious beetle is the bombardier, a brown creature with green gloss on its wings. It
carries a little bomb-shell, which it uses as a weapon of defense when disturbed by an enemy.
It is a very sociable little bug, and will gather in a crowd under big flat stones in damp
places. If the stone is suddenly overturned, the bombardiers at once begin a cannonade like
the explosion of a grain of gunpowder, and throw out a puff of whitish vapor resembling smoke.
The bombardiers of South America, China, and other warm countries, are much larger than those
found in England, and the fluid they eject, which causes the tiny explosion, is capable of
making a black stain, and leaving an unpleasant burning sensation upon the hand of any one
trying to capture them.

A large member of the beetle family is found in Nicaragua. It is about five inches long, and
is called the big-bodied elephant. It is black in color, but appears of a yellowish-chestnut,
as it is entirely covered with a thick, soft fur, something like the down on a butterfly's
wing, which rubs off very easily, and shows the scaly black surface beneath. The big-bodied
elephant is armed with a formidable black horn, forked at the end, which curves upward like
the horn of a white rhinoceros.

Certain species of the elater beetles are familiar to every school-boy. Elater signifies striking
or bounding. Boys will know better what is meant by an elater beetle if they are told that
it is the same thing as a skip-jack, or snapping-bug. If this beetle is laid on its back, its
legs are unable to reach to either side and gain a foot-hold, and it can not roll over. It
accordingly goes through a gymnastic movement. Curling its legs closely to its body, it arches
itself a little, and suddenly springs into the air, landing on its feet, in which position
it is again master of itself.

The most remarkable among the elater beetles is the cuculio, or fire-fly, of the tropics. It
is a very common-looking dark brown beetle in the daytime, the two beads, one on each side
of its head, which at night are so luminous and beautiful, being dull white. But, wait until
night comes, and then what countless pairs of tiny yellow-green lanterns are flying over the
fields, and creeping about among the foliage! Boys and girls in Cuba make cages of stout reeds,
and fill them with cuculios. If the cage is hung in a dark room, the light from the cuculios
is strong enough to enable one to read print, if the book is held near the cage. There is also
a small place underneath the body from which this singular beetle emits light, but the effect
is not so beautiful as that of the two beads on the head. If the cuculio is disturbed by being
shaken in its cage, or in any other way, the light it throws out intensifies until it is fairly
dazzling.

These beautiful beetles may easily be brought across the ocean in their little cages, and if
guarded from cold air, and fed plentifully with sugar-cane, from which they suck the juice,
or even with coarse brown sugar moistened a little, they will live a long time.

These varieties of beetles mentioned are only a small handful among thousands, for there are
more members of this great family than naturalists have yet been able to count. There are beetles
that fly by night, and beetles that fly by day; some that live in the ground, others in the
water, and yet others on trees and among the leaves and flowers. They are of all colors, and
of varied appetites, some living solely on insects, others on fruits and vegetables and leaves
of different kinds.

