THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 277.]  SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1827.  [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PALACE AT STOCKHOLM.

The palace at Stockholm is the redeeming grace of that city.--Stockholm "not being able to
boast any considerable place or square, nor indeed any street wider than an English lane; the
exterior of the houses is dirty, the architecture shabby, and all strikes as very low and confined.
Yet the palace must be excepted; and that is commanding, and in a grand and simple taste."
Such is the description of Stockholm by Sir Robert Ker Porter; but, as he admits, he had just
left the city of St. Petersburgh, and being probably dazzled with the freshness of its splendour,
Stockholm suffered in the contrast.

But Sir R.K. Porter is not entirely unsupported in his opinion. Mr. James, in his interesting
"Journal of a Tour in Sweden, &c." published in 1816, describes the suburbs of Stockholm as
"uniting every beauty of wild nature, with the charms attendant upon the scenes of more active
life; but the examples of architecture within the town, if we except the mansions of the royal
family, are not of a style at all corresponding with these delightful environs. The private
houses make but little show; and the general air of the public buildings is not of the first
style of magnitude, or in any way remarkable for good taste. One point, however, may be selected,
that exhibits in a single prospect all that the capital can boast of this description. There
is a long bridge of granite, connecting the city in the centre with the northern quarters of
the town: immediately at one extremity rises the royal palace, a large square edifice, with
extensive wings, and of the most simple and elegant contour; the other extremity is terminated
by an equestrian statue of Gustavus Adolphus, forming the chief object of a square, that is
bounded on the sides by handsome edifices of the Corinthian order; one the palace of the Princess
Sophia, the other the Italian Opera-house."

Mr. A. de Capell Brooke, who visited Stockholm in the summer of 1820, describes the palace
as "a beautiful and conspicuous object, its walls washed by the Baltic."--It is square, on
an elevated ground, has a spacious court in the centre, and is in every respect worthy a royal
residence. Near the entrance are two large bronze lions, which are admirably executed. "The
view of the palace from the water," says Sir R.K. Porter, "reminds us of Somerset House, though
it far exceeds the British structure in size, magnificence, and sound architecture." It contains
some good paintings, and a fine gallery of statues, chiefly antique, collected by the taste
and munificence of Gustavus III. The Endymion is a chef d'oeuvre of its kind, and the Raphael
china is of infinite value, but a splendid example of genius and talent misapplied.

All travellers concur in their admiration of the site and environs of Stockholm, and in deprecating
the malappropriation of the former, Porter says, "The situation of this capital deserves finer
edifices. Like St. Petersburg, it is built on islands; seven, of different extent, form its
basis; they lie between the Baltic and the Malar lake. The harbour is sufficiently deep, even
up to the quay, to receive the largest vessels. At the extremity of the harbour, the streets
rise one above another in the form of an amphitheatre, with the magnificent palace, like a
rich jewel in an Æthiop's ear, in the centre."

Mr. Brooke describes the situation of the city as "singular and even romantic. Built on seven
small rocky islands, it in this respect resembles Venice. A great part of the city, however,
stands upon the steep declivity of a very high hill; houses rising over houses, so that, to
the eye, they seem supported by one another. Below, commerce almost covers the clear waters
of the Baltic with a tall forest of masts; while far above, and crowning the whole, stands
the commanding church of St. Catherine. From the top of this the eye is at first lost in the
boundless prospect of forest, lake, and sea, spreading all around: it then looks down upon
Stockholm, intersected in all directions by water; the royal palace; and lastly, ranges over
the forests of pines extending themselves almost down to the gates of the city, spotted with
villas, and skirted in the most picturesque manner by the numerous beautiful lakes, which so
pleasingly relieve the beauties of the country. The other objects, which will repay the curiosity
of the stranger in inspecting them, are, the royal palace; the military academy at Cartberg;
the arsenal; the senate house; the Ridderholm, where the kings of Sweden are interred; the
cabinet of natural history; the annual exhibition of paintings; the fine collection of statue
in the palace."

       *       *       *       *       *

CROSS FELL, WESTMORELAND.

(For the Mirror.)

This mountain is situate near the end of a ridge of mountains, leading from Stainmore or Stonemore,
about sixteen miles in length. It descends gradually from Brough to the Grained Tree, the former
boundary mark dividing Yorkshire from Westmoreland. Passing over several mountains, we arrive
at Dufton Fell, of the same ridge.

At the foot of this fell there is a curious little petrifying spring, which turns moss, or
any other porous matter which may fall within its vortex, or the steams and vapours arising
therefrom, into hard stone, insomuch that upon the mouth of it there is a considerable hill
of such petrifaction.

Cross Fell is the highest mountain of the whole ridge, and is bounded by a small rivulet stocked
with trouts. This was formerly called Fiends' Fell, from evil spirits, which are said to have
haunted its summit, "and to have continued their haunts and nocturnal vagaries upon it, until
Saint Austin erected a cross and altar, whereon he offered the holy eucharist, by which he
countercharmed those hellish fiends, and broke their haunts."--Robinson's History of Cumberland
and Westmoreland, 1709.

Since the saint expelled the fiends, the mountain (it appears) has taken the name of Cross
Fell, in commemoration of the event.

There are now existent seven stones lying in a careless condition on the top of this mountain,
as if destroyed by the hand of time. The stones, it is supposed, are the remains of the cross
and altar. One stone is considerably higher than the rest, and they are overgrown with moss.

I have heard many of the traditions which are very current, but all such hyperboles, that were
I to give one, the reader would be convulsed with laughter. I trust, sir, if you have any travellers
among your numerous readers, they will give this a further investigation, and I (as well as
yourself, doubtless) shall be happy to learn the result.

Your's. &c.

W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SALMON KIPPERING, IN DUMBARTONSHIRE.

(For the Mirror.)

Salmon are caught in less or greater abundance in all the rivers of this county. The salmon-fisheries
of Lochlomond and the Leven are of considerable value. In several parts of the county salmon
are cured in a peculiar manner, called kippering; and throughout Scotland kippered salmon is
a favourite dish. It is practised here in the following manner:--All the blood is taken from
the fish immediately after it is killed; this is done by cutting the gills. It is then cut
up the back on each side the bone, or chine, as it is commonly called. The bone is taken out,
but the tail, with two or three inches of the bone, is left; the head is cut off; all the entrails
are taken out, but the skin of the belly is left uncut; the fish is then laid, with the skin
undermost, on a board, and is well rubbed and covered over with a mixture of equal quantities
of common salt and Jamaica pepper. Some of this mixture is carefully spread under the fins
to prevent them from corrupting, which they sometimes do, especially if the weather is warm.
A board with a large stone is sometimes laid upon the fish, with a view to make the salt penetrate
more effectually. In some places, as Dumbarton, instead of a flat board, a shallow wooden trough
is used, by which means the brine is kept about the fish; sometimes two or three salmon are
kippered together in the same vessel, one being laid upon the other. The fish, with the board
or trough, is set in a cool place for two or three days; it is then removed from the board,
and again rubbed with salt and pepper; after which it is hung up by the tail, and exposed to
the rays of the sun or the heat of the fire. Care is previously taken to stretch out the fish
by means of small sticks or hoops placed across it from side to side. After it has remained
in the heat a few days, it is hung up in a dry place till used. Some people, in order to give
the kipper a peculiar taste, highly relished by not a few, carefully smoke it with peat reek,
or the reek of juniper bushes. This is commonly done by hanging it up so near a chimney in
which peats or juniper bushes are burnt, as to receive the smoke; there it remains two or three
weeks, by which time it generally acquires the required flavour.

T.S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEBTOR AND CREDITOR.

(Concluded from page 227.)

Debt is obligation, and "obligation," says Hobbes, "is thraldom." This will be evident if we
once consider to what a variety of mean shifts the state of being in debt exposes us. It sits
like fetters of iron on conscience; but as old offenders often whistle to the clanking of their
chains, so rogues lighten their hearts by increasing their debts. It destroys freedom as much
as a debtor is his creditor's slave; and, under certain circumstances, his range may be reduced
to a few square feet, and his view prescribed by a few cubits of brick walls; and, humiliating
as this may appear, it sits lightly on the majority, since, even the brawlers for liberty,
forgetting "the air they breathe," are often to be found within its pale; but in this case
they also forget, that being in legal debt is less venial than many other sins, since it cannot
be cleared by any appeals to argument, or settled by shades of opinion. Subterfuge, lying,
and loss of liberty, are not all the miseries of a conscious debtor: in the world he resembles
a prisoner at large; he walks many circuitous miles to avoid being dunned, and would sooner
meet a mad dog than an angry creditor. He lives in a sort of abeyance, and sinks under shame
when caught enjoying an undue luxury. In short, he is cramped in all his enjoyments, and considers
his fellow, out of debt, as great as the emperor of the celestial empire, after whose repast
other kings may dine. Hence ensue repining and envy: he fancies himself slighted by the world,
and, in return, he cares not for the opinion of the world; his energies waste, and he falls.

These sufferings, however, appertain but to one class of debtors. There are others who scorn
such compunctious visitations, and set all laws of conscience at defiance. They press into
their service all the aids of cunning, and travel on byroads of the world till they are bronzed
enough for its highway. Their memories are like mirrors, and their debts like breathings on
them, which vanish the same moment they are produced. They look on mankind as a large family,
and the world as a large storehouse, or open house, where they have a claim proportioned to
their wants. They clear their consciences by maintaining, that what is parted with is not lost,
and foster their hopes with the idea of its reversion. They think those who can ride ought
not to walk; and, therefore, that all men have the option of such chances of good-fortune.
With this laxity of principle they quarter themselves on the credulity of extortionate tradesmen,
and the good-natured simplicity of friends or associates. If, perchance, they possess any excellence
above their society, they consider it as a redeeming grace for their importunities, and, calculating
on the vulgarism ad captandum, that what is dearest bought is most prized, they make their
friends pay freely for their admiration. Nor are such admirers willing to break the spell by
which they are bound, since, by their unqualified approval they sanction, and flatter the man
of their party, to their mutual ruin; for, as Selden observes, "he who will keep a monkey should
surely pay for the glasses he breaks."

Prone as men are to the crooked path, and still more apt as the weak and ignorant are to indulge
them in such a course, perhaps the love of principle is as strong in men's hearts as it ever
will be. Of times gone by, we must not here speak; because the amor patriæ its has long since
shifted to amor nummi, and naked honesty has learned the decency of dress. There have been
profligates in all ages; but the world, though sometimes a severe master, ruins as many by
its deceitful indulgence, as by its ill-timed severity. Good fellows are usually the worst
treated by the world allowing them to go beyond their tether, and then cutting them off out
of harm's way. Nothing but an earlier discipline can improve us; for so habitual is debt, that
the boy who forestals his pocket-money uses it as a step-ladder to mortgaging his estate. The
sufferers, in such cases, are generally shut up in prisons or poor-houses, to afflict or console
each other as their sensibilities may direct; and thus the salutary lessons, which their condition
might afford, is lost to the world. Neither are such scenes of real misery courted by mankind;
the nearest semblances which they can bear being in the sentimentalities of the stage, encumbered
as they often are by overstrained fiction and caricature. On the contrary, a walk through those
receptacles of human woe, and the little histories of their inmates, will often furnish as
many lessons of morality and world-knowledge as will suffice us for life. We may there see
the rapacious creditor at the same goal with the unfortunate debtor, whom he has hunted through
life, supplicating mercy which he never exercised, and vainly attempting to recant a course
of cruelty and persecution, by mixing up his merited sufferings with the distresses of his
abused companions.

Goldsmith has said, that "every man is the architect of his own fortune;" and perhaps there
are few men, who, in the moments of their deepest suffering, have not felt the force of this
assertion. In high life, embarrassments are generally to be attributed to the love of gambling,
prodigality, or some such sweeping vice, which no station can control. Bankruptcies, or failures
in trade, being common occurrences, are seldom traced to their origin, too often found to be
in expensive habits, and overreaching or misguided speculations, and sometimes in the treachery
and villany of partners; and, amidst this bad system, so nicely is credit balanced, that a
run of ill luck, or a mere idle whisper, is often known to destroy commercial character of
a century's growth. But in these cases it should be recollected, that the reputation of the
parties has probably been already endangered by some great stretch of enterprize, calculated
to excite envy or suspicion.

Debts of fashion, or those contracted in high life, are usually the most unjust, probably the
result of honesty being more a virtue of necessity than of choice, and of the disgraceful system
of imposing on the extravagant and wealthy. Experience, it is granted, is a treasure which
fools must purchase at a high price; but however largely we may hold possession of that commodity,
it will not excuse that scheme of bare-weight honesty, which some are apt to make the standard
of their dealings with the rich. A man of family, partly from indiscretion, and from various
other causes, becomes embarrassed; the clamours of his creditors soon magnify his luxuries,
but not a word is said about their innumerable extortions, in the shape of commissions, percentages,
and other licensed modifications of cheatery, nor are they reckoned to the advantage of the
debtor. These may be practices of experience, custom, and money-getting, but they are not rules
of conscience. In truth, there is not a more painful scene than the ruin of a young man of
family. There is so much vice and unprincipled waste opposed to indignant and rapacious clamour,
often accompanied with idle jests. Here again is food for the vitiated appetites of scandalmongers,
and that miserable but numerous portion of mankind, who rejoice at the fall of a superior.
The name of debtor is an odium which a proud spirit can but ill support; cunning and avarice
come in a thousand shapes, not to retrieve lost credit, but to swell the list of embarrassments;--friends
have fled at the approach of the crisis, and associates appear but to pluck the poor victim
of the wrecks of his fortune! Absenteeism, the curse of England, is the only alternative of
wretched and humiliating imprisonment. An entire change of habit ensues: ease and elegance
of manners dwindle into coldness and neglect, liberality to meanness, and good-natured simplicity
to chicanery and cunning. In society, too, how changed; once the gay table companion, full
of gallantry and wit, now solitary and dejected, with the weeds of discomfort and despair rankling
around his heart. If fortune ever enable him to regenerate from such obscurity, perhaps custom
may have habituated him to privation till the return of comfort serves little more than to
awaken recollections of past error or obligation, and to embitter future enjoyment. Such a
change may, however, empower him to adjust his conscience with men, of all satisfaction the
most valuable; notwithstanding that the world is readier to exaggerate error, than recognise
such sterling principle. It is alike obvious, that men who are under the stigma of debt, do
not enjoy that ease which they are commonly thought to possess. The horrors of dependance,
in all its afflicting shapes, are known to visit them hourly, although in some instances, buoyancy
of spirits, and affected gaiety may enable them to appear happy; and ofttimes would they be
awakened to a sense of these fallacies, and thus become reformed, were it not for the rigour
of persecution, which renders them reckless of all that may ensue, and callous to the honourable
distinctions of man. This of a truth, is tampering with human weakness, and is too often known
to prove the upshot of industry, by sacrificing principle to vindictive passion.

That a system of debt is identified with the existence and framework of all commercial republics,
is well known; else, genius would cease to be fostered, enterprise would be cramped, and industry
wither on her own soil. Nevertheless, the system may be so extended, as to beget indifference
for the future and neglect of our present concerns, which leads to gradual ruin. Time "travels
at divers paces," but with none more quickly than the unprepared debtor; and he who allows
his debts to get the start of his fortune, lives upon other men's estates, and must accordingly
become the slave of their passions and prejudices: in truth, he may be thus said to be parting
with his existence by piece-meal. Hence, he becomes a kind of convict in society--his debts
resembling a log of wood chained to his body, and a brand-mark on his conscience. Thus pent
up with fear and disquietude, his imprisonment is twofold, and being an enemy to his own peace,
he is apt to imagine all men to be leagued against him. If his debts are those of youth, his
old age will probably resemble the sequel to revelry, when appetite is fled to make way for
disgust and spleen: and he dies--in debt. Mark the lamentable scenes that follow, when the
pride of inheritance sinks before the unsparing hand of the usurer, or extortionate mortgagee.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR LUMLEY SKEFFINGTON.

Sir Lumley St. George Skeffington was the dandy of the olden time, and a kinder, better-hearted
man, never existed. He is a person of some taste in literature, and of polished manners, nor
has his long intercourse with fashionable society at all affected that simplicity of character
for which he has been remarkable. He was a true dandy: and much more than, that, he was a perfect
gentleman. I remember, long long since, entering Covent Garden Theatre, when I observed a person
holding the door to let me pass; deeming him to be one of the box-keepers, I was about to nod
my thanks: when I found, to my surprise, that it was Skeffington, who had thus goodnaturedly
honoured a stranger by his attention. We with some difficulty obtained seats in a box, and
I was indebted to accident for one of the most agreeable evenings I remember to have passed.

I remember visiting the Opera, when late dinners were the rage, and the hour of refection was
carried far into the night. I was again placed near the fugleman of fashion (for to his movements
were all eyes directed: and his sanction determined the accuracy of all conduct). He bowed
from box to box, until recognising one of his friends in the lower tier, "Temple," he exclaimed,
drawling out his weary words, "at--what--hour--do--you--dine--to-day?" It had gone half-past
eleven when he spoke!

I saw him once enter St. James's Church, having at the door taken a ponderous red-morocco prayer-book
from his servant; but, although prominently placed in the centre aisle, the pew-opener never
offered him a seat; and, stranger still, none of his many friends beckoned him to a place.
Others, in his rank of life, might have been disconcerted at the position in which he was placed:
but Skeffington was too much of a gentleman to be in any way disturbed; so he seated himself
upon the bench between two aged female paupers, and most reverently did he go through the service,
sharing with the ladies his book, the print of which was more favourable to their devotions
than their own diminutive Liturgies.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *        *        *        *        *

MARQUESS OF CLEVELAND.

In the Gazette of September 17, 1827, is registered the grant of the title of Marquess of Cleveland
to the Earl of Darlington.

The noble Earl probably selected the title of "Cleveland" in consequence of his representing
the extinct Dukes of Cleveland. King Charles the Second, on the 3rd of August, 1670, created
his mistress, Barbara Villiers, the daughter and heiress of William, second Viscount Grandison
in Ireland, and wife of Roger Palmer, Earl of Castlemaine, Baroness Nonsuch, in the county
of Surrey, Countess of Southampton, and Duchess of Cleveland, with remainder to two of her
natural sons by the King, Charles Fitz Roy, and George Fitz Roy, who was created Duke of Northumberland
in 1674, but died S.P., and to the heirs male of their bodies lawfully begotten respectively.
The Duchess died in 1709, and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles, who had been before
created Duke of Southampton. He had issue, three sons: William, his successor in his honours;
Charles, and Henry, who both died S.P.; and three daughters, Barbara, who died unmarried; Grace;
and Ann; who was the wife of Francis Paddy, Esquire, and had issue.

Grace, the Duke's second daughter, married Henry, first Earl of Darlington; and on the death
of her brother William, second and last Duke of Cleveland, S.P., in 1774, her son, Henry, second
Earl of Darlington, the father of the present Marquess of Cleveland, became one of the representatives
of that family. It is an extraordinary fact, that the attainder of the celebrated Sir Henry
Vane should never have been reversed, though his son was created a Baron, his great-grandson
a Viscount and Earl, and his great-great-great-grandson a Marquess. The only individual on
whom the title of Cleveland has been conferred, besides Barbara Villiers and her descendants,
was Thomas, fourth Lord Wentworth, who was created Earl of Cleveland in February, 1626; but
it became extinct on his death, S.P.M., in 1667.

Retrospective Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIRTY PEOPLE.

Irishmen are generally sweet--at least in their own green isle.--So are Scotchmen.

       *        *        *        *        *

QUACKERY.

A short time since a soi-disant doctor sold water of the pool of Bethesda, which was to cure
all complaints, if taken at the time when the angel visited the parent spring, on which occasion
the doctor's bottled water manifested, he said, its sympathy with its fount by its perturbation.
Hundreds purchased the Bethesda-water, and watched for the commotion and the consequence, with
the result to be expected. At last one, less patient than the rest, went to the doctor, and
complained that though he had kept his eye constantly on the water for a whole year, he had
never yet discovered anything like the signs of an angel in his bottle.

"That's extremely strange," exclaimed the doctor. "What sized bottle did you buy, sir?"

Patient.--"A half-guinea-one, doctor."

Doctor.--"Oh, that accounts for it. The half-guinea bottles contain so small a quantity of
the invaluable Bethesda-water, that the agitation is scarcely perceptible; but if you buy a
five-guinea bottle, and watch it well, you will in due season see the commotion quite plain,
sympathizing with that of the pool when visited by the angel."

The patient bought the five guinea bottle as advised, and kept a sharp look out for the angel
till the day of his death.

London Magazine.

       *        *        *        *        *

HANGING BY DESIRE.

       *        *        *        *        *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIAL OF CHARLES I.

On the morning of Jan. 20th, 1648, towards noon, the High Court, having first held its secret
sitting in the Painted Chamber, prepared to enter upon the final details of its mission. Prayers
were scarcely over, before it was announced that the king, borne in a close sedan between two
rows of soldiers, was on the point of making his appearance. Cromwell ran to the windows, and
as suddenly hastened back, pale yet highly excited--"He is here, he is here, sirs; the hour
for this grand affair draws nigh. Decide promptly, I beseech you, what you intend to reply;
for he will instantly inquire in whose name and by what authority you presume to try him."
No one making any reply, Henry Martin at length observed--"In the name of the Commons assembled
in Parliament, and of all the good people of England." To this no objection was made. The court
proceeded in solemn procession towards Westminster Hall, the President Bradshaw at its head;
before him were borne the mace and sword; and sixteen officers armed with partisans, preceded
the court. The President took his place in an arm-chair adorned with crimson velvet; at his
feet sat the clerk, near a table covered with a rich Turkey carpet, and upon which were placed
the mace and sword. On the right and left appeared the members of the court upon seats of scarlet
cloth; while at the two ends of the hall stood the guards, all armed, a little in advance of
the tribunal. The court being installed, all the doors were thrown open; the crowd rushed into
the hall. Silence being restored, the act of the Commons appointing the court was read, the
names were called over, and sixty-nine members were found to be present. "Sergeant," said Bradshaw,
"let the prisoner be brought forward!"

The king appeared under guard of Colonel Hacker and thirty-two officers. An arm-chair, adorned
with crimson velvet, was in readiness for him at the bar. He came forward; fixed a long and
severe look upon the court, and seated himself without taking off his hat. Suddenly he rose,
looked round at the guard upon the left, and at the spectators upon the right of the hall;
again fixed his eyes upon his judges, and then sat down, amidst the general silence of the court.

Bradshaw rose instantly:--"Charles Stuart, King of England, the English Commons assembled in
Parliament, deeply penetrated with a sense of the evils that have fallen upon this nation,
and of which you are considered the chief author, are resolved to inquire into this sanguinary
crime. With this view they have instituted this High Court of Justice, before which you are
summoned this day. You will now hear the charges to be preferred against you."

The Attorney General Coke now rose. "Silence!" exclaimed the king, at the same time touching
him on the shoulder with his cane. Coke, surprised and irritated, turned round; the handle
of the king's cane fell off, and for a few moments he appeared deeply affected. None of his
attendants were at hand to take it up; he stooped and picked it up himself, and then resumed
his seat. Coke proceeded to read the act imputing to the king all the evils arising first out
of his tyranny, subsequently from the war; and requiring that he should be bound to reply to
the charges, and that judgment should be pronounced against him as a tyrant, a traitor, and
a murderer.

During this time, the king continued seated, directing his eyes towards his judges, or towards
the spectators, without betraying any emotion. Once he rose; turned his back upon the court
to see what was passing behind him, and again sat down with an expression at once of inquisitiveness
and indifference in his manner. Upon hearing the words: "Charles Stuart, a tyrant, traitor,
and murderer," he laughed, though he still remained silent.

The act being read, "Sir," said Bradshaw, "you have now heard the act of accusation against
you: the court expects you to reply."

The King. "First, I wish to know by what authority I am summoned here. A short time since,
I was in the Isle of Wight engaged in negociations with both houses of parliament, under guarantee
of the public faith. We were upon the point of concluding a treaty. I would be informed by
what authority--I say legitimate authority--for of illegitimate authorities there are, I know,
many, like that of robbers on the highway;--I would be informed, I repeat, by what authority
I have been dragged from place to place, I know not with what views. When I am made acquainted
with this legitimate authority, I will reply."

Bradshaw. "If you had attended to what was addressed to you by the court upon your arrival,
you would know in what this authority consisted. It calls upon you, in the name of the people
of England, of whom you were elected king, to make a reply."

The King. "No sir, I deny this."

Bradshaw. "If you refuse to acknowledge the authority of the court, it will proceed against you."

The King. "I maintain that England never was an elective kingdom; for nearly the space of a
thousand years it has been altogether an hereditary one. Let me know, then, by what authority
I am summoned here. Inquire from Colonel Cobbett, who is here at hand, if I were not brought
by force from the Isle of Wight. I will yield to none in maintaining the just privileges of
the House of Commons in this place. But where are the Lords? I see no Lords here necessary
to constitute a parliament. A king, moreover, is essential to it. Now is this what is meant
by bringing the king to meet his parliament?"

Bradshaw. "Sir, the court awaits a definitive answer from you. If what we have stated respecting
our authority does not satisfy you, it is sufficient for us, we know that it is founded upon
the authority of God and of the country."

The King. "It is neither my opinion nor yours which should decide."

Bradshaw. "The court has heard you; you will be disposed of according to its orders. Let the
prisoner be removed. The court adjourns until Monday."

The court then withdrew; and the king retired under the same escort that had accompanied him.
Upon rising he perceived the sword placed upon the table, "I have no fear of that," he observed,
pointing towards it with his cane. As he descended the staircase, several voices called out
"Justice! justice!" but far the greater number were heard to exclaim, "God save the king! God
save your majesty."

On the morrow at the opening of the sitting, sixty-two members being present, the court ordered
strict silence to be observed under pain of imprisonment. On his arrival, however, the king
was not the less received with marked applause. The same sort of discussion commenced, and
with equal obstinacy on both sides. "Sir," at length, exclaimed Bradshaw, "neither you, nor
any other person shall be permitted to question the jurisdiction of this court. It sits by
authority of the Commons of England--an authority to which both you and your predecessors are
to be held responsible."

The King. "I deny that. Show me a single precedent." Bradshaw rose up in a passion: "Sir, we
do not sit here to reply to your questions. Plead to the accusation, guilty or not guilty."

The King. "You have not yet heard my reasons."

Bradshaw. "Sir, no reason can be advanced against the highest of all jurisdictions."

The King. "Point out to me this jurisdiction; or you refuse to hear reason."

Bradshaw. "Sir, we show it to you here. Here are the Commons of England. Sergeant, remove the
prisoner."

The king on this turned suddenly round towards the people. "Bear in mind," he said, "that the
king of England has been condemned without being permitted to state his reasons in support
of the people's liberty." These words were followed by an almost general cry of God save the
king. * * *

On the 27th at noon, after two hours conference in the painted chamber, the court opened, as
usual, by calling a list of the names. At the name of Fairfax, a woman's voice from the bottom
of the gallery was heard to exclaim: "He has too much sense to be here." After some moments'
surprise and hesitation, the names were called over, and sixty-seven members were present.
When the king entered the hall, there was a violent outcry: "Execution! justice! execution!"
The soldiers became very insolent; some officers, in particular Axtell, commander of the guards,
excited them to this uproar; and groups spread about through the hall, as busily seconded them.
The people, struck with consternation, were silent. "Sir!" said the king, addressing Bradshaw
before he sat down, "I demand to speak a word; I hope that I shall give you no cause to interrupt
me."

Bradshaw. "You will be heard in your turn. Listen first to the court."

The King. "Sir, if you please, I wish to be heard. It is only a word. An immediate decision."

Bradshaw. "Sir, you shall be heard at the proper time:--first, you must listen to the court."

The King. "Sir, I desire,--what I have to say applies to what the court is, I believe, about
to pronounce; and it is difficult, sir, to recall a precipitate verdict."

Bradshaw. "We shall hear you, sir, before judgment is pronounced. Until then you ought to abstain
from speaking."

Upon this assurance the king became more calm; he sat down, and Bradshaw proceeded:

"Gentlemen--it is well known that the prisoner at your bar has now been many times brought
before this court to reply to a charge of treason, and other high crimes, exhibited against
him in the name of the English people"----

"Not half the people," exclaimed the same voice that had spoken on hearing the name of Fairfax,
"where is the people?--where is its consent?--Oliver Cromwell is a traitor."

The whole assembly seemed electrified!--all eyes turned towards the gallery: "Down with the
w----s," cried Axtell; "soldiers fire upon them!"--It was lady Fairfax. A general confusion
now arose; the soldiers, though everywhere fierce and active, could with difficulty repress
it. Order being at length a little restored, Bradshaw again insisted upon the king's obstinate
refusal to reply to the charge; upon the notoriety of the crimes imputed to him, and declared
that the court, though unanimous in its sentence, had nevertheless consented to hear the prisoner's
defence, provided that he would cease to question its jurisdiction.

"I demand," said the king, "to be heard in the painted chamber, by both Lords and Commons,
upon a proposition which concerns the peace of the kingdom and the liberty of my subjects much
more nearly than my own preservation."

A violent tumult now spread throughout the court, and the whole assembly. Friends and enemies
were all eager to divine for what purpose the king had demanded this conference with the two
houses, and what it was his intention to propose to them.

Colonel Downs, a member of the court, expressed a wish that the king's proposition should be heard.

"Since one of the members desires it," said Bradshaw, gravely, "the court must retire;" and
they immediately passed into a neighbouring hall. * * *

In about half an hour the court returned, and Bradshaw informed the king that his proposition
was rejected.

Charles appeared to be subdued, and no longer insisted with any degree of vigour.

"If you have nothing to add," said Bradshaw, "the court will proceed to give sentence."

"I shall add nothing, sir," said the king; "and only request that what I have said may be recorded."
Without replying to this, Bradshaw informed him that he was about to hear his sentence; but
before he ordered it to be read, he addressed to the king a long discourse, as a solemn apology
for the proceedings of parliament, enumerating all the evil deeds of the king, and imputing
to him alone all the misfortunes of the civil war, since it was his tyranny that had made resistance
as much a matter of duty as of necessity. The orator's language was harsh and bitter, but grave,
pious, free from insult, and stamped with profound conviction, though with a slight mixture
of vindictive feeling. The king heard him without offering any interruption, and with equal
gravity. In proportion, however, as the discourse drew towards a close, he became visibly troubled;
and as soon as Bradshaw was silent, he endeavoured to speak: Bradshaw prevented him, and commanded
the clerk to read the sentence; this being done, he said, "This is the act, opinion, and unanimous
judgment of the court," and the whole court rose up in token of assent: "Sir," said the king,
abruptly, "will you hear one word?"

Bradshaw. "Sir, you cannot be heard after sentence has been passed."

The King. "No, sir!"

Bradshaw. "No, sir, with your permission, sir. Guards, remove the prisoner."

The King. "I can speak after sentence.--With your permission, sir, I have still a right to
speak after sentence.--With your permission--Stay--The sentence, sir--I say, sir, that--I am
not permitted to speak--think what justice others are to expect!"

At this moment he was surrounded by soldiers, and removed from the bar.

From the French of M. Guizot.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR;

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF

NEW WORKS.