The surgeon also told us--in order, we supposed, to cheer our drooping spirits--of another
battle fought in the neighbourhood of Bannockburn in 1488, but this time it was the Scottish
King James III who came to grief. He had a fine grey courser given him "that could war all
the horse of Scotland if the king could sit up well." But he was a coward and could not ride,
and when some men came up shouting and throwing arrows, they frightened the king. Feeling the
spurs, the horse went at "flight speed" through Bannockburn, and a woman carrying water, when
she saw the horse coming, dropped her bucket down on the road and ran for safety. The horse,
frightened by the bucket, jumped over the brook that turned the mill, and threw the king off
at the mill door. The miller and his wife, who saw the accident, not knowing that the rider
was the king, put him in a nook in the mill and covered him with a cloth. When he came round,
he asked for a priest and told them he was the king. But he had fallen into the hands of his
enemies. The miller's wife clapped her hands, and ran out crying for a priest for the king.
A man called out, "I am a priest; where is the king?" When he saw the king he told him he might
recover if he had a good leeching, but the king desired him to give him the Sacrament. The
supposed priest said, "That I shall do quickly," and suiting the action to the word, he stabbed
him several times in the heart. The corpse he took away on his back, no one knew whither, and
the king's soldiers, now leaderless, fled to Stirling and Linlithgow.

We thanked our friend for his company and bade him farewell, as we reached Bannockburn village.
We observed there, as in most villages near Stirling, many houses in ruins or built with the
ruins of others. We thought what a blessing it was that the two nations were now united, and
that the days of these cruel wars were gone for ever! At a junction of roads a finger-post
pointed "To the Bannockburn Collieries," and we saw several coal-pits in the distance with
the ruins of an old building near them, but we did not take the trouble to inspect them.

The shades of night were coming on when, after walking a few miles, we saw an old man standing
at the garden gate of a very small cottage by the wayside, who told us he was an old sailor
and that Liverpool had been his port, from which he had taken his first voyage in 1814. He
could remember Birkenhead and that side of the River Mersey when there was only one house,
and that a farm from which he used to fetch buttermilk, and when there was only one dock in
Liverpool--the Prince's. We thought what a contrast the old man would find if he were to visit
that neighbourhood now! He told us of a place near by named Norwood, where were the remains
of an old castle of Prince Charlie's time, with some arches and underground passages, but it
was now too dark to see them. We proceeded towards Camelon, with the great ironworks of Carron
illuminating the sky to our left, and finally arrived at Falkirk. Here, in reply to our question,
a sergeant of police recommended us to stay the night at the "Swan Inn," kept by a widow, a
native of Inverness, where we were made very comfortable. After our supper of bread and milk,
we began to take off our boots to prepare for bed, but we were requested to keep them on as
our bedroom was outside! We followed our leader along the yard at the back of the inn and up
a flight of stone steps, at the top of which we were ushered into a comfortable bedroom containing
three beds, any or all of which, we were informed, were at our service. Having made our selection
and fastened the door, we were soon asleep, notwithstanding the dreadful stories we had heard
that day, and the great battlefields we had visited--haunted, no doubt, by the ghosts of legions
of our English ancestors who had fallen therein!

(Distance walked seventeen miles.)

Saturday, October 7th.

Falkirk, which stands on a gentle slope on the great Carse of Forth, is surrounded by the Grampian
Hills, the Ochills, and the Campsie Range. Here King Edward I entirely routed the Scottish
Army in the year 1298.

We left the inn at six o'clock in the morning, the only people visible being workmen turning
out for their day's work. The last great fair of the season was to be held that day, and we
had the previous day seen the roads filled with cattle making for Falkirk Fair, perhaps one
of the largest fairs in the kingdom. We had been told by the drovers that the position was
well adapted for the purpose, as the ground was very sandy and therefore not so liable to be
trampled into mud by the animals' feet.

We passed through the village of Laurieston, where Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite and
blasting gelatine, lived, and saw a plough at work turning up potatoes, a crowd of women and
boys following it and gathering up the potatoes in aprons and then emptying them into a long
row of baskets which extended from one end of the field to the other. A horse and cart followed,
and the man in charge emptied the contents of the baskets into the cart. We questioned the
driver of the plough, who assured us that no potatoes were left in the land, but that all were
turned up and gathered, and that it was a much better way than turning them out by hand with
a fork, as was usual in England.

About two miles farther on we passed the romantic village of Polmont, and on through a fine
stretch of country until we reached another fair-sized village called Linlithgow Bridge. We
were then about a mile and a half from the old town of Linlithgow; here the River Avon separates
the counties of Stirlingshire and Linlithgowshire. The old bridge from which the place takes
its name is said to have been built by Edward I of England. In 1526 the Battle of Linlithgow
Bridge was fought at this spot; it was one of those faction fights between two contending armies
for predominance which were so prevalent in Scotland at the time, the real object, however,
being to rescue King James V from the domination of the Earl of Angus. The opposing fronts
under Angus and Lennox extended on both sides of the Avon. The Earl of Lennox was slain by
Sir James Hamilton after quarter had been granted to the former. His sword was afterwards found,
and may still be seen in the small museum at Linlithgow. In this village Stephen Mitchell,
tobacco and snuff manufacturer, carried on business and had an old snuff mill here; he was
the first founder in Great Britain of a Free Library. Burns the Scottish poet stayed a night
here on August 25th, 1787.

We arrived at the royal and ancient burgh of Linlithgow at about nine o'clock. The town, as
Burns says, "carries the appearance of rude, decayed, idle grandeur"; it is, however, very
pleasantly situated, with rich, fertile surroundings. There is a fine old royal palace here
within which, on December 7th, 1542, the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots was born, whose beauty
and magnificence have imbued her history with so deep and melancholy an interest.

We fully endorsed the great Sir Walter's opinion, for it certainly was a magnificent structure
and occupied a grand situation, with a large lake in front covering perhaps a hundred acres.
We were now, however, getting ravenously hungry, so we adjourned to the hotel for breakfast,
which was quickly served and almost as quickly eaten. The palace was not open until ten o'clock,
so we had to be content with a view of the exterior, nor could we visit the fine old church,
for we wanted to reach Edinburgh, where we had decided to stay the week-end in order to see
some of the sights of the historic capital.

A halo of deepest interest surrounded the history of Linlithgow, whose every stone spoke volumes
of the storied past. The traditions of the place go far back into the dim shadowy regions where
historic fact merges into myth and legend. Solid ground is only reached about the twelfth century.
The English had possession of the palace in 1313, and the way it was taken from them was probably
unique in the history of such places. The garrison was supplied with hay for the horses by
a local farmer named Binnock, who determined to strike a blow for the freedom of his country.
A new supply of hay had been ordered, and he contrived to conceal eight men, well armed, under
it. The team was driven by a sturdy waggoner, who had a sharp axe concealed in his clothing,
while Binnock himself walked alongside. The porter, on seeing their approach, lowered the drawbridge
and raised the portcullis to admit of the passage of the hay within the castle walls. Just
as they reached the centre of the gateway the driver drew his axe and cut off the tackle that
attached the oxen to the waggon, at the same time striking the warder dead and shouting a preconcerted
signal--"Call all! Call all!" "The armed men jumped from amongst the hay, and a strong party
of Scots, who by arrangement were in ambush outside, rushed in and attacked the astonished
garrison, who were unprepared for the onslaught--the load of hay being so placed that the gate
could not be closed nor the bridge raised--and so the Scots made themselves masters of the palace."

The last event of any historical interest or importance connected with this palace was the
visit paid to it by Prince Charles Stewart in 1745; it was destroyed in the following year.

The beautiful old Gothic church of St. Michael is situated close to the palace. Perhaps no
tradition connected with this church is more interesting than the vision which is said to have
appeared to James IV while praying within St. Catherine's Aisle immediately before the Battle
of Flodden. According to Lindsay of Pitscottie, on whose authority the tale rests, the King,
being "in a very sad and dolorous mood, was making his devotions to God to send him good chance
and fortune in his voyage" when a man "clad in ane blue gown" appeared to him, and with little
ceremony declared to the King that he had been sent to desire him "nocht to pass whither he
purposed," for if he did, things "would not fare well with him or any who went with him." How
little this warning was heeded by the King is known to all readers of Scottish history. The
"ghost," if it may be called so, was in all likelihood an attempt to frighten the King, and
it is certain that the tale would never have gained the weird interest it possesses if Flodden
Field had not proved so disastrous. It has been helped to immortality by Sir Walter Scott,
who in "Marmion" has invested Pitscottie's antique prose with the charm of imperishable poetry.

One characteristic of the towns or villages in Scotland through which we passed was their fine
drinking-fountains, and we had admired a very fine one at Falkirk that morning; but Linlithgow's
fountain surpassed it--it was indeed the finest we had seen, and a common saying occurred to us:

  Glasgow for bells,
  Linlithgow for wells.

Linlithgow has long been celebrated for its wells, some of them of ancient date and closely
associated with the history of the town. We came to an old pump-well with the date 1720, and
the words "Saint Michael is kinde to straingers." As we considered ourselves to be included
in that category, we had a drink of the water.

At the end of the village or town we passed the union workhouse, where the paupers were busy
digging up potatoes in the garden, and a short distance farther on we passed a number of boys
with an elderly man in charge of them, who informed us they came from the "institute," meaning
the workhouse we had just seen, and that he took them out for a walk once every week. Presently
we met a shepherd who was employed by an English farmer in the neighbourhood, and he told us
that the man we had met in charge of the boys was an old pensioner who had served fifty-two
years in the army, but as soon as he got his pension money he spent it, as he couldn't keep
it, the colour of his nose showing the direction in which it went. It struck us the shepherd
seemed inclined that way himself, as he said if he had met us nearer a public-house he would
have "treated us to a good glass." We thought what a pity it was that men had not a better
eye to their own future interests than to spend all their money "for that which is not bread,
and their labour for that which satisfieth not," and how many there were who would ultimately
become burdens to society who might have secured a comfortable competency for old age by wisely
investing their surplus earnings instead of allowing them to flow down that awful channel of waste!

We walked through a fine agricultural district--for we were now in Midlothian--adorned with
great family mansions surrounded by well-kept grounds, and arrived in sight of Edinburgh at
1.30, and by two o'clock we were opposite a large building which we were told was Donaldson's
Hospital, founded in 1842, and on which about £100,000 had been spent.

Our first business on reaching Edinburgh was to find suitable lodgings until Monday morning,
and we decided to stay at Fogg's Temperance Hotel in the city. We had then to decide whether
we should visit Edinburgh Castle or Holyrood Palace that day--both being open to visitors at
the same hour in the afternoon, but as they were some distance apart we could not explore both;
we decided in favour of the palace, where we were conducted through the picture gallery and
the many apartments connected with Mary Queen of Scots and her husband Lord Darnley.

The picture-gallery contained the reputed portraits of all the Kings of Scotland from Fergus
I, 330 B.C., down to the end of the Stuart dynasty; and my brother, who claimed to have a "painter's
eye," as he had learned something of that art when at school, discovered a great similarity
between the portraits of the early kings and those that followed them centuries later. Although
I explained that it was only an illustration of history repeating itself, and reminded him
of the adage, "Like father, like son," he was not altogether satisfied. We found afterwards,
indeed, that the majority of the portraits had been painted by a Flemish artist, one John de
Witt, who in the year 1684 made a contract, which was still in existence, whereby he bound
himself to paint no portraits within two years, he supplying the canvas and colours, and the
Government paying him £120 per year and supplying him with the "originalls" from which he was
to copy. We wondered what had become of these "originalls," especially that of Fergus, 330
B.C., but as no information was forthcoming we agreed to consider them as lost in the mists
of antiquity.

There was much old tapestry on the walls of the various rooms we inspected in the palace, and
although it was now faded we could see that it must have looked very beautiful in its original
state. The tapestry in one room was almost wholly devoted to scenes in which heavenly-looking
little boys figured as playing in lovely gardens amidst beautiful scenery. One of these scenes
showed a lake in the background with a castle standing at one end of it. In the lake were two
small islands covered with trees which were reflected in the still waters, while in the front
was a large orange tree, growing in a lovely garden, up which some of the little boys had climbed,
one of whom was throwing oranges to a companion on the ground below; while two others were
enjoying a game of leapfrog, one jumping over the other's back. Three other boys were engaged
in the fascinating game of blowing bubbles--one making the lather, another blowing the bubbles,
while a third was trying to catch them. There were also three more boys--one of them apparently
pretending to be a witch, as he was riding on a broomstick, while another was giving a companion
a donkey-ride upon his back. All had the appearance of little cupids or angels and looked so
lifelike and happy that we almost wished we were young again and could join them in their play!

The rooms more closely connected with the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots were of course the
most interesting to visitors; and in her audience-room, where she had such distressing interviews
with John Knox, the famous Presbyterian divine and reformer, we saw the bed that was used by
King Charles I when he resided at Holyrood, and afterwards occupied on one occasion, in September
1745, by his descendant Prince Charlie, and again after the battle of Culloden by the Duke
of Cumberland.

We passed on to Queen Mary's bedroom, in which we were greatly interested, and in spite of
its decayed appearance we could see it had been a magnificent apartment. Its walls were adorned
with emblems and initials of former Scottish royalties, and an old tapestry representing the
mythological story of the fall of Photon, who, according to the Greeks, lost his life in rashly
attempting to drive the chariot of his father the God of the Sun. Here we saw Queen Mary's
bed, which must have looked superb in its hangings of crimson damask, trimmed with green silk
fringes and tassels, when these were new, but now in their decay they seemed to remind us of
their former magnificence and of their unfortunate owner, to whom the oft-quoted words

   Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown

so aptly applied. We wondered how many times her weary head had passed its restless nights
there, and in the many castles in which she had been placed during her long imprisonment of
nineteen years. Half hidden by the tapestry there was a small door opening upon a secret stair,
and it was by this that Darnley and his infamous associates ascended when they went to murder
the Queen's unfortunate Italian secretary, Rizzio, in the Queen's supping-room, which we now
visited. There we had to listen to the recital of this horrible crime: how the Queen had been
forcibly restrained by Darnley, her table overthrown and the viands scattered, while the blood-thirsty
conspirators crowded into the room; how Rizzio rushed behind the Queen for protection, until
one of the assassins snatched Darnley's dagger from its sheath, and stabbed Rizzio, leaving
the dagger sticking in his body, while the others dragged him furiously from the room, stabbing
him as he went, shrieking for mercy, until he fell dead at the head of the staircase, pierced
by fifty-six wounds; and how one of the assassins threatened to cut the Queen "into collops"
if she dared to speak to the populace through the window. The bloodstain on the floor was of
course shown us, which the mockers assert is duly "restored" every winter before the visiting
season commences.

Leaving the Palace, we saw Queen Mary's Bath, a quaintly shaped little building built for her
by King James IV, in which she was said to have bathed herself in white wine--an operation
said to have been the secret of her beauty. During some alterations which were made to it in
1798, a richly inlaid but wasted dagger was found stuck in the sarking of the roof, supposedly
by the murderers of Rizzio on their escape from the palace.

We then visited the now roofless ruins of the Abbey or Chapel Royal adjoining the Palace. A
fine doorway on which some good carving still remained recalled something of its former beauty
and grandeur. There were quite a number of tombs, and what surprised us most was the large
size of the gravestones, which stood 6 to 7 feet high, and were about 3 feet wide. Those we
had been accustomed to in England were much smaller, but everything in Scotland seemed big,
including the people themselves, and this was no less true of the buildings in Edinburgh. There
was a monument in one corner of the Chapel Royal on which was an inscription in Latin, of which
we read the English translation to be:--

   HERE IS BURIED A WORTHY MAN AND AN INGENIOUS MASON,

   ALEXANDER MILNE, 20 Feb. A.D. 1643

  Stay Passenger, here famous Milne doth rest,
  Worthy to be in Ægypt's Marble drest;
  What Myron or Apelles could have done
  In brass or paintry, he could do in stone;
  But thretty yeares hee [blameless] lived; old age
  He did betray, and in's Prime left this stage.

   Restored by Robert Mylne

   Architect. MDCCLXXVI.

The builder of the Palace was Robert Milne, the descendant of a family of distinguished masons.
He was the "master mason," and a record of him in large letters on a pillar ran--

  FVN . BE . RO . MILNE . M.M. . I . JYL . 1671.

After leaving Holyrood we walked up Calton Hill, where we had a splendid view of the fine old
city of Edinburgh seated on rocks that are older than history, and surrounded by hills with
the gleaming Firth of Forth in the distance. The panorama as seen from this point was magnificent,
and one of the finest in Great Britain. On the hill there were good roads and walks and some
monuments. One of these, erected to the memory of Nelson, was very ugly, and another--beautiful
in its incompleteness--consisted of a number of immense fluted columns in imitation of the
Parthenon of Athens, which we were told was a memorial to the Scottish heroes who fell in the
Wars of Napoleon, but which was not completed, as sufficient funds had not been forthcoming
to finish what had evidently been intended to be an extensive and costly erection. We supposed
that these lofty pillars remained as a warning to those who begin to build without first sitting
down and counting the cost. They were beautifully proportioned, resembling a fragment of some
great ruin, and probably had as fine an effect as they stood, as the finished structure would
have had.

Edinburgh Castle stood out in the distance on an imposing rock. As we did not arrive during
visiting hours we missed many objects of interest, including the Scottish crown and regalia,
which are stored therein. On the ramparts of the castle we saw an ancient gun named "Mons Meg,"
whose history was both long and interesting. It had been made by hand with long bars of hammered
iron held together by coils of iron hoops, and had a bore of 20 in.; the cannon-balls resting
alongside it were made of wood. It was constructed in 1455 by native artisans at the instance
of James II, and was used in the siege of Dumbarton in 1489 and in the Civil Wars. In Cromwell's
list of captured guns in 1650 it was described as "the great iron murderer Meg." When fired
on the occasion of the Duke of York's visit to Edinburgh in 1682 the gun burst. After this
bad behaviour "Meg" was sent to the Tower of London, not, however, to be executed, but to remain
there until the year 1829, when, owing to the intercession of Sir Walter Scott with King George
IV, the great gun was returned to Edinburgh, and was received with great rejoicings and drawn
up with great ceremony to the castle, where it still remains as a relic of the past.

On our way we had observed a placard announcing a soirée in connection with the I.O.G.T. (the
Independent Order of Good Templars), and this being somewhat of a novelty to us we decided
to patronise it. Accordingly at 7 p.m. we found ourselves paying the sum of ninepence each
at the entrance to the Calton Rooms. As we filed through along with others, a cup and saucer
and a paper bag containing a variety of cakes were handed to us, and the positions assigned
to us were on either side of an elderly gentleman whom we afterwards found to be a schoolmaster.

