Chocolate and Cocoa Recipes By Miss Parloa

and

Home Made Candy Recipes By Mrs. Janet McKenzie Hill

Compliments of Walter Baker & Co., Ltd.

ESTABLISHED DORCHESTER 1780              MASS

1909

Cocoa and Chocolate

The term "Cocoa," a corruption of "Cacao," is almost universally used in English-speaking countries
to designate the seeds of the small tropical tree known to botanists as THEOBROMA CACAO, from
which a great variety of preparations under the name of cocoa and chocolate for eating and
drinking are made. The name "Chocolatl" is nearly the same in most European languages, and
is taken from the Mexican name of the drink, "Chocolate" or "Cacahuatl." The Spaniards found
chocolate in common use among the Mexicans at the time of the invasion under Cortez in 1519,
and it was introduced into Spain immediately after. The Mexicans not only used chocolate as
a staple article of food, but they used the seeds of the cacao tree as a medium of exchange.

No better evidence could be offered of the great advance which has been made in recent years
in the knowledge of dietetics than the remarkable increase in the consumption of cocoa and
chocolate in this country. The amount retained for home consumption in 1860 was only 1,181,054
pounds--about 3-5 of an ounce for each inhabitant. The amount retained for home consumption
for the year ending Dec. 31, 1908, was 93,956,721 pounds--over 16 ounces for each inhabitant.

Although there was a marked increase in the consumption of tea and coffee during the same period,
the ratio of increase fell far below that of cocoa. It is evident that the coming American
is going to be less of a tea and coffee drinker, and more of a cocoa and chocolate drinker.
This is the natural result of a better knowledge of the laws of health, and of the food value
of a beverage which nourishes the body while it also stimulates the brain.

Baron von Liebig, one of the best-known writers on dietetics, says:

"It is a perfect food, as wholesome as delicious, a beneficient restorer of exhausted power;
but its quality must be good and it must be carefully prepared. It agrees with dry temperaments
and convalescents; with mothers who nurse their children; with those whose occupations oblige
them to undergo severe mental strains; with public speakers, and with all those who give to
work a portion of the time needed for sleep. It soothes both stomach and brain, and for this
reason, as well as for others, it is the best friend of those engaged in literary pursuits."

M. Brillat-Savarin, in his entertaining and valuable work, Physiologie du Goût, says: "Chocolate
came over the mountains [from Spain to France] with Anne of Austria, daughter of Philip III
and queen of Louis XIII. The Spanish monks also spread the knowledge of it by the presents
they made to their brothers in France. It is well known that Linnæus called the fruit of the
cocoa tree theobroma, 'food for the gods.' The cause of this emphatic qualification has been
sought, and attributed by some to the fact that he was extravagantly fond of chocolate; by
others to his desire to please his confessor; and by others to his gallantry, a queen having
first introduced it into France.

"The Spanish ladies of the New World, it is said, carried their love for chocolate to such
a degree that, not content with partaking of it several times a day, they had it sometimes
carried after them to church. This favoring of the senses often drew upon them the censures
of the bishop; but the Reverend Father Escobar, whose metaphysics were as subtle as his morality
was accommodating, declared, formally, that a fast was not broken by chocolate prepared with
water; thus wire-drawing, in favor of his penitents, the ancient adage, 'Liquidum non frangit
jejunium.'

"Time and experience," he says further, "have shown that chocolate, carefully prepared, is
an article of food as wholesome as it is agreeable; that it is nourishing, easy of digestion,
and does not possess those qualities injurious to beauty with which coffee has been reproached;
that it is excellently adapted to persons who are obliged to a great concentration of intellect;
in the toils of the pulpit or the bar, and especially to travellers; that it suits the most
feeble stomach; that excellent effects have been produced by it in chronic complaints, and
that it is a last resource in affections of the pylorus.

"Some persons complain of being unable to digest chocolate; others, on the contrary, pretend
that it has not sufficient nourishment, and that the effect disappears too soon. It is probable
that the former have only themselves to blame, and that the chocolate which they use is of
bad quality or badly made; for good and well-made chocolate must suit every stomach which retains
the slightest digestive power.

"In regard to the others, the remedy is an easy one: they should reinforce their breakfast
with a pâté, a cutlet, or a kidney, moisten the whole with a good draught of soconusco chocolate,
and thank God for a stomach of such superior activity.

"This gives me an opportunity to make an observation whose accuracy may be depended upon.

"After a good, complete, and copious breakfast, if we take, in addition, a cup of well-made
chocolate, digestion will be perfectly accomplished in three hours, and we may dine whenever
we like. Out of zeal for science, and by dint of eloquence, I have induced many ladies to try
this experiment. They all declared, in the beginning, that it would kill them; but they have
all thriven on it and have not failed to glorify their teacher.

"The people who make constant use of chocolate are the ones who enjoy the most steady health,
and are the least subject to a multitude of little ailments which destroy the comfort of life;
their plumpness is also more equal. These are two advantages which every one may verify among
his own friends, and wherever the practice is in use."

In corroboration of M. Brillat-Savarin's statement as to the value of chocolate as an aid to
digestion, we may quote from one of Mme. de Sévigné's letters to her daughter:

"I took chocolate night before last to digest my dinner, in order to have a good supper. I
took some yesterday for nourishment, so as to be able to fast until night. What I consider
amusing about chocolate is that it acts according to the wishes of the one who takes it."

Chocolate appears to have been highly valued as a remedial agent by the leading physicians
of that day. Christoph Ludwig Hoffman wrote a treatise entitled, "Potus Chocolate," in which
he recommended it in many diseases, and instanced the case of Cardinal Richelieu, who, he stated,
was cured of general atrophy by its use.

A French officer who served in the West Indies for a period of fifteen years, during the early
part of the last century, wrote, as the result of his personal observations, a treatise on
"The Natural History of Chocolate, Being a distinct and Particular Account of the Cacao Tree,
its Growth and Culture, and the Preparation, Excellent Properties, and Medicinal Virtues of
its Fruit," which received the approbation of the Regent of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris,
and which was translated and published in London, in 1730.

