In the forests there are often clear spots on which the grass grows to a great height, and
supplies excellent pasturage for numerous herds of cattle. The inhabitants of Chiloe breed
for their own use, horses, oxen, sheep, and swine. The horses are small, and not handsomely
formed, but very spirited and strong. Some are scarcely twelve hands high. The cows are small
and lank, and the same may be said of the swine and sheep. It is remarkable that all the rams
have more than two horns; the greater number have three, and many are furnished with four or
five. I afterwards observed the same in Peru. The domestic animals on this island, notwithstanding
the abundance of food, are small, and sickly-looking. I believe the cause to be want of care,
for they remain all the year round exposed to every sort of weather and discomfort.

The population of Chiloe consists of Whites, Indians, and people of mixed blood. The Indians
are now few in number, and those few are chiefly in the southern part of the island, and the
adjacent islets. They are of the Araucana race, and appear to be a sept between that race and
the people of Tierra del Fuego, on the one side, and the Pampas Indians on the other. People
of mixed races form by far the greater portion of the population. They are met with in every
variety of amalgamation. Taken in general, they are the reverse of handsome. They are short
and thick-set, and have long, straight coarse hair. Their faces are round and full, their eyes
small, and the expression of their countenances is unintelligent. The whites are either Chilenos
or Spaniards: the latter are almost the only Europeans who have become settlers here.

The principal town, San Carlos, called by the natives "Ancud," lies on the northern coast of
a very fine bay. Without a good chart, the entrance to this bay is difficult. Numerous small
islands form a labyrinth, out of which vessels, if not commanded by very experienced pilots,
cannot easily be extricated. Besides, near the land, the sky is usually obscured by clouds
which prevent any observation for the latitude, as the sun's altitude cannot be taken even
at noon; and when the sun gets lower, the hills, which would serve as guiding points, cease
to be distinctly seen.

Several whalers, which for some days vainly endeavored to work through this passage, were afterwards
obliged to direct their course northward, and to cast anchor in Valivia. One of the largest
islands at the entrance of the bay is San Sebastian, where there are numerous herds of cattle.
Cochino is a small island, distant only a few miles from San Carlos. It is hilly, and thickly
crowned with brush-wood. It has only one landing-place, and that is rather insecure for boats.
The water of the bay is remarkably clear and good; only round the little island of Cochino,
and along the harbor, it is covered with an immense quantity of sea-moss, which often renders
the landing difficult. It frequently happens that commanders of ships, wishing to go on board
to make sail during the night, get out of the right course, and instead of going to the ship,
steer to Cochino and get into the moss, where their boats stick fast, till returning daylight
enables them to work their way out.

The poor inhabitants boil this sea-moss and eat it. It is very salt and slimy, and is difficult
of digestion. Among the people of Chiloe, this sea-moss occupies an important place in surgery.
When a leg or an arm is broken, after bringing the bone into its proper position, a broad layer
of the moss is bound round the fractured limb. In drying, the slime causes it to adhere to
the skin, and thus it forms a fast bandage, which cannot be ruffled or shifted. After the lapse
of a few weeks, when the bones have become firmly united, the bandage is loosened by being
bathed with tepid water, and it is then easily removed. The Indians of Chiloe were acquainted,
long before the French surgeons, with the use of the paste bandage.

The town of San Carlos is dirty; the streets unpaved, narrow, and crooked. The houses, with
few exceptions, are wretched wooden huts, for the most part without windows; but there is a
board divided in the middle horizontally, the upper part of which being open, it serves for
a window, and when both parts are open, it forms a door. The flooring usually consists merely
of hard-trodden clay, covered with straw matting. The furniture, like the apartments, is rude
and inconvenient. These remarks of course apply to the habitations of the very poor class of
people. The richer families live in more comfortable style. Of the public buildings, the custom-house
and the governor's residence are the most considerable, but both make a very indifferent appearance.
In front of the governor's house, which occupies a tolerably large space of ground, in the
upper part of the town, a sentinel is constantly stationed. This sentinel parades to and fro,
without shoes or stockings, and not unfrequently without a coat, his arms being covered only
by his shirt sleeves. As to a cap, that seems to be considered as unnecessary a part of a well-conditioned
uniform, as shoes and stockings. After sunset every person who passes the governor's house
is challenged. "Who goes there?" is the first question; the second is Que gente? (what country?)
The sailors amuse themselves by returning jocular answers to these challenges; and the sentinel,
irritated by their jeers, sometimes runs after them through part of the town, and when weary
of the chace returns to his post.

Poverty and uncleanliness vie with each other in San Carlos. The lower class of the inhabitants
are exceedingly filthy, particularly the women, whose usual dress is a dirty woollen gown,
and a greasy looking mantilla. In their damp gloomy habitations, they squat down on the floor,
close to the brasero (chafing pan), which also serves them as a stove for cooking. They bruise
maize between two stones, and make it into a thick kind of soup or porridge. When employed
in paring potatoes or apples, or in cutting cabbages, they throw the skins and waste leaves
on the ground, so that they are frequently surrounded by a mass of half-decayed vegetable matter.
Their favorite beverage is mate (the Paraguay tea), of which they partake at all hours of the
day. The mode of preparing and drinking the mate is as follows: a portion of the herb is put
into a sort of cup made from a gourd, and boiling water is poured over it. The mistress of
the house then takes a reed or pipe, to one end of which a strainer is affixed,[1] and putting
it into the decoction, she sucks up a mouthful of the liquid. She then hands the apparatus
to the person next to her, who partakes of it in the same manner, and so it goes round. The
mistress of the house and all her guests suck the aromatic fluid through the same pipe or bombilla.

The poverty of the people is extreme. Specie is seldom current, and is exclusively in the hands
of a few traders, who supply the Indians with European articles, in payment of their labor,
or in exchange for the produce of the island, which is sent to Chile and Peru. With much surprise
I learned that there is no saw-mill in Chiloe, where the vast abundance of trees would furnish
a supply of excellent deals, for which ready and good payment would be obtained in Peru.

The inhabitants direct their industry chiefly to agriculture and navigation. But rude and imperfect
are their implements for field labor, as well as their nautical vessels. To a stranger nothing
can appear more extraordinary than their mode of ploughing. As to a regular plough, I do not
believe such a thing is known in Chiloe. If a field is to be tilled, it is done by two Indians,
who are furnished with long poles, pointed at one end. The one thrusts his pole, pretty deeply,
and in an oblique direction, into the earth, so that it forms an angle with the surface of
the ground. The other Indian sticks his pole in at a little distance, and also obliquely, and
he forces it beneath that of his fellow-laborer, so that the first pole lies as it were above
the second. The first Indian then presses on his pole, and makes it work on the other, as a
lever on its fulcrum, and the earth is thrown up by the point of the pole. Thus they gradually
advance, until the whole field is furrowed by this laborious process.

The Chiloe boats are merely hulks. They obey the helm reluctantly, but they bear away before
the wind. Several individuals usually join together, and convey in these boats, the produce
of their respective localities, in the southern villages, to San Carlos. Women as well as men
take their turn at rowing the boats, and after being out all day, they run into some creek,
where they pass the night. When a favorable breeze springs up, they hoist a sail, made of ponchos.
The poncho is an important article of male clothing in this country. It consists of a piece
of woollen cloth, measuring from 5 to 7 feet long, and from 3 to 4 feet broad. In the middle
there is a slit from 12 to 14 inches long; through this slit the wearer passes his head. The
poncho thus rests on the shoulders, and hangs down in front and behind as low as the knees.
At the sides, it reaches to the elbow, or middle of the forearm, and thus covers the whole
of the body. The carters and wagoners in Swabia wear, in rainy weather, a covering somewhat
resembling the poncho, which they make out of their woollen horse-coverings. When a Chiloe
boat is on its passage on the coast, and a sail happens to be wanted, the men give up their
ponchos and the women their mantillas. The slits in the ponchos are stitched up, and both ponchos
and mantillas being sewn together are fixed to a pole or bar of wood, which is hoisted to a
proper position on the mast. This patchwork sail can only be serviceable when the wind is fresh.
At nightfall, when the boat runs into one of the creeks for shelter, the sail is lowered, and
the sewing being unpicked, the ponchos and mantillas are returned to their respective owners,
who wrap themselves in them, and go to sleep.

There is but little trade in San Carlos, for Chile itself possesses in superfluity all the
productions of Chiloe, and the inhabitants of the island are so poor, and their wants so limited,
that they require but few foreign articles. The port is therefore seldom visited by any trading
vessel from Europe. Some of the Chiloe boats keep up a regular traffic along the coast. They
carry wood, brooms, hams, and potatoes, to Valparaiso, Arica, Callao, &c., and they bring back
in return, linen, woollen and cotton cloths, ironware, tobacco, and spirits.

North American and French whalers have for several years past been frequent visitors to San
Carlos, as they can there provide themselves, at a cheap rate, with provisions for the long
fishing season. All the captains bring goods, which they smuggle on shore, where they sell
or exchange them at a high profit. A custom-house officer is, indeed, sent on board every vessel
to examine what is to be unshipped; but a few dollars will silence him, and make him favor
the contraband operations, which are carried on without much reserve. A French captain brought
to Chiloe a quantity of water-proof cloaks and hats, made of a sort of black waxed cloth, and
sold them to a dealer in San Carlos. To evade the duty, he sent his men on shore each wearing
one of these hats and cloaks, which they deposited in the dealer's store, and then returned
on board the ship, dressed in their sailors' garb. This was repeated so often, that at length
it was intimated to the captain that, if his men had a fancy to come on shore with such hats
and cloaks they would be permitted to do so, but it must be on condition of their returning
on board dressed in the same costume.

The people of Ancud (San Carlos), formerly so simple and artless, have gradually become corrupt
and degenerate, since their frequent intercourse with the whale-fishers. Among the female portion
of the population, depravity of morals and unbecoming boldness of manners have in a great degree
superseded the natural simplicity which formerly prevailed. All the vices of the lowest class
of sailors, of which the crews of the South Sea Whalers are composed, have quickly taken root
in San Carlos, and the inseparable consequences of those vices will soon be fatal to the moral
and physical welfare of the inhabitants.

In the interior of the island of Chiloe there are few quadrupeds. The largest, the domestic
animals excepted, is a fox (Canis fulvipes, Wat.), which was first discovered by the naturalists
who accompanied Capt. King's expedition. This is the only beast of prey. The coast abounds
in seals of the sea-dog species (Otaria chilensis, Müll., Otaria Ursina, Per., Otaria jubata,
Desm.)--in sea-otters (Otaria chilensis, Ben.)--and in the water mouse (Myopotamus Coypus,
J. Geoff). Among the birds, there are some very fine species of ducks, well worthy of notice,
which are also found on the continent of South America. There is the little Cheucau (Pteroptochus
rubecula, Kettl.), to which the Chilotes attach various superstitious ideas, and pretend to
foretell good or ill luck from its song. The modulations which this bird is capable of uttering
are numerous, and the natives assign a particular meaning to each. One day, when I wished to
have some shooting, I took an Indian lad with me. Having levelled my gun at one of these birds,
which was sitting in a low bush, and uttering its shrill huit-huit, my young companion firmly
grasped my arm, earnestly entreating me not to shoot the bird, as it had sung its unlucky note.
But my desire to possess a specimen was too great to be thus baffled, so I fired my gun and
brought it down. I was engaged in examining the elegant little bird, when a mule, probably
alarmed by the shot, came running at full speed towards the spot where we were, and we deemed
it prudent to get behind a hedge as speedily as possible. The infuriated mule made an attack
on my gun, which was resting against the hedge. It was thrown down, bitten, and trampled on
by the mule. The Indian boy turned to me, with a serious countenance, and said:--"It is well
if we escape further danger! I told you the bird had piped bad luck!"

The day fixed for our departure from Chiloe now approached. The wind, which had heretofore
been unfavorable for leaving the port, promised to change, and we began to ship provisions.
Whilst I was waiting for the boat which was to take me on board, I had an opportunity of observing
the dexterity with which the Indians slaughter their cattle. This business is performed on
the Mole, where, in the space of a quarter of an hour, and by two men only, an ox is killed,
and the carcase cut up into the proper pieces. When it is necessary to ship live oxen, the
animals are brought to the shore, where their feet are bound together, and then they are rolled
over planks into the lancha (boat). On nearing the ship, the Indians tie a rope round the animal's
horns, and then the sailors hoist him up with a strong tackle. It is a curious sight to behold
a strongly-bound struggling ox, hanging by the tackle, and swinging between wind and water.
My little Chilotean pony, which I intended to take to Peru, was dealt with more gently: he
was got on board with a girth, purposely made for hoisting horses on board ship.

At length we sailed out of the bay with a fresh easterly wind. Three coasting boats, one of
which was heavily laden with brooms, left the roads at the same time, and their crews said
they hoped to reach Valparaiso before us. But they had too great confidence in their round-bottomed
keels, for they did not anchor in their place of destination till five or six days after our
arrival. The wind soon got up, blowing W.N.W., but rather flat. In the course of the night,
during the second watch, we were roused from our sleep by a heavy shock, followed by a peculiarly
tremulous motion of the whole ship. We concluded we had struck in passing over some hidden
rock. The lead was thrown, but no ground was found; the pumps were set a-going, but we were
free of water. The captain attributed the shock to an earthquake, and on our arrival at Chile,
his conjecture was confirmed. In Valdivia, in the latitude of which place we were at the time,
a severe shock of an earthquake had been experienced.

After a pretty favorable passage of seven days, we anchored on the 30th of June in the harbor
of Valparaiso.

The impression produced by the approach to Valparaiso on persons who see land for the first
time after a sea voyage of several months' duration, must be very different from that felt
by those who anchor in the port after a passage of a few days from the luxuriantly verdant
shores of the islands lying to the south. Certainly, none of our ship's company would have
been disposed to give the name of "Vale of Paradise" to the sterile, monotonous coast which
lay outstretched before us; and yet, to the early navigators, its first aspect, after a long
and dreary voyage, over the desert ocean, might naturally enough have suggested the idea of
an earthly paradise.

Along the sea coast there extends a range of round-topped hills, 15 or 16 hundred feet high,
covered with a grey-brownish coating, relieved only here and there by patches of dead green,
and furrowed by clefts, within which the bright red of tile-roofed houses is discernible. Half-withered
cactus trees, the only plants which take root in the ungenial soil, impart no life to the dreary
landscape. The hills continue rising in undulating outlines, and extend into the interior of
the country, where they unite with the great chain of the Andes.

The bay of Valparaiso is open on the north and west; on the south it is protected by a little
promontory called the Punta de Coromilla. In this direction the shore is steep and rocky, and
the waves break against it with great fury. From the Punta de Coromilla the bay extends from
east to north-west in the form of a gently curved crescent, having a sloping, sandy beach,
which rises very gradually towards the hills. On the north side of the bay there are several
small inlets, almost inaccessible and edged with steep rocks. The bay is sometimes unsafe,
for it is completely unsheltered on the north, and the heavy gales which blow from that point
frequently end in storms. At those times the bay is furiously agitated, the waves sometimes
rising as high as in the open sea, and the ships are obliged to cast their sheet-anchors. Many
vessels have at various times been driven from their anchorage, cast ashore, and dashed to
pieces on a rock called Little Cape Horn; for, when a violent gale blows from the north, it
is impossible to get out to sea. Sailors are accustomed to say that in a violent storm they
would rather be tossed about on the wide ocean than be at anchor in the bay of Valparaiso.
But against the south wind, though sometimes no less boisterous than the northern gales, the
harbor affords secure refuge, being perfectly sheltered by the Punta de Coromilla.

The town of Valparaiso looks as if built on terraces at the foot of the range of hills above
mentioned. Northward it stretches out on the level sea shore, in a long double row of houses
called the Almendral: towards the south it rises in the direction of the hills. Two clefts
or chasms (quebradas) divide this part of the town into three separate parts consisting of
low, shabby houses. These three districts have been named by the sailors after the English
sea terms Fore-top, Main-top, and Mizen-top. The numerous quebradas, which all intersect the
ground in a parallel direction, are surrounded by poor-looking houses. The wretched, narrow
streets running along these quebradas are, in winter, and especially at night, exceedingly
dangerous, Valparaiso being very badly lighted. It sometimes happens that people fall over
the edges of the chasms and are killed, accidents which not unfrequently occur to the drunken
sailors who infest these quarters of the town.

Viewed from the sea, Valparaiso has rather a pleasing aspect, and some neat detached houses
built on little levels, artificially made on the declivities of the hills, have a very picturesque
appearance. The scenery in the immediate background is gloomy; but, in the distance, the summit
of the volcano Aconcagua, which is 23,000 feet above the level of the sea, and which, on fine
evenings, is gilded by the rays of the setting sun, imparts a peculiar charm to the landscape.

The bay is protected by three small forts. The southernmost, situated between the lighthouse
and the town, has five guns. The second, which is somewhat larger, called el Castillo de San
Antonio, is in the southern inlet of the bay. Though the most strongly fortified of the three,
it is in reality a mere plaything. In the northern part of the town, on a little hillock, stands
the third fort, called el Castillo del Rosario, which is furnished with six pieces of cannon.
The churches of Valparaiso are exceedingly plain and simple, undistinguished either for architecture
or internal decoration.

The custom-house is especially worthy of mention. It is a beautiful and spacious building,
and from its situation on the Muele (Mole) is an object which attracts the attention of all
who arrive at Valparaiso. In the neighborhood of the custom-house is the exchange. It is a
plain building, and contains a large and elegant reading-room, in which may always be found
the principal European newspapers. In this reading-room there is also an excellent telescope
by Dollond, which is a source of amusement, by affording a view of the comical scenes sometimes
enacted on board the ships in the port.

The taverns and hotels are very indifferent. The best are kept by Frenchmen, though even those
are incommodious and expensive. The apartments, which scarcely contain necessary articles of
furniture, are dirty, and often infested with rats. In these houses, however, the table is
tolerably well provided; for there is no want of good meat and vegetables in the market. The
second-rate taverns are far beneath the very worst in the towns of Europe.

On our arrival in Valparaiso, a vast deal of activity and bustle prevailed in the harbor. Chile
had declared war against the Peru-Bolivian confederation, and was fitting out a new expedition
for the invasion of Peru. At its head were the banished Peruvian president Don Augustin Gamarra,
and the Chilian general Bulnes. The growing power of Santa Cruz, who set himself up as protector
of a confederation between Bolivia and Peru, had given alarm to the Chilian government. It
was apprehended, and not without reason, that the independence of Chile might be threatened
by so dangerous a neighbor. Santa Cruz had given umbrage to Chile by several decrees, especially
one, by which merchant vessels coming direct from Europe into a Bolivian or Peruvian port,
and there disposing of their cargoes, were subject to very low duties, whilst heavy imposts
were levied on ships landing any part of their cargoes in a Chilian port. This law greatly
increased the trade of Peru; but it was prejudicial to Chile. This and other grounds of offence,
joined to the representations of the fugitive Ex-president Gamarra and his adherents, determined
the Chilian government to declare war. An expedition under the command of General Blanco was
sent to Peru; but Santa Cruz was prepared to receive the invaders, and in the valley of Arequipa
he surrounded the Chilian forces so completely that they were obliged to surrender without
striking a blow. Santa Cruz magnanimously allowed General Blanco to make a very favorable capitulation.
The soldiers were sent home to their country; but the horses were detained and sold by the
conquerors to the conquered.

The generosity of Don Andres Santa Cruz did not meet its due return on the part of the Chilian
government. The treaty of peace concluded by Blanco was not ratified in Santiago, the minister
declaring that the general was not authorized to negotiate it. Hostilities were kept up between
the two states, and at length a second and more important expedition was fitted out. It sailed
whilst we were lying in the harbor.

No sooner had we cast anchor than several officers of the Chilian army came on board to inquire
whether we had any swords to dispose of, assuring us that they, together with the majority
of their comrades, were yet unprovided with arms, and knew not where to procure them. The captain
informed them that there were no swords in our cargo; but that he had a few sabres, &c., which
he was very willing to sell. They were immediately produced, and some were purchased; among
the number was a heavy broad-sword, about five feet in length, which had once belonged to a
cuirassier in Napoleon's guard. The Chilian officer who bargained for it was a delicate-looking
stripling, who, with both hands, could scarcely raise the heavy weapon. He, nevertheless, flattered
himself that it would enable him to achieve great deeds in battle and deal death among the
Peruvians. Ten months afterwards I met this hero on a march among the mountains of Peru. He
had, girded on, a light little sword, like a tooth pick or a bodkin compared with the formidable
weapon he had discarded, and which a sturdy negro was carrying behind him. I could not refrain
from asking the officer whether the trusty broad-sword had not done good service in the battle
of Yungay; but he candidly acknowledged that he had not attempted to use it, as he found it
much too unwieldy.

The Chilian squadron sent to Peru consisted of twenty-seven transport ships, and eight ships
of war. Almost all were in a wretched condition, having but few guns, and manned by very insufficient
crews. The largest vessels were the three corvettes, Confederacion, Santa Cruz, and Valparaiso.
Only one ship, the schooner brig Colocolo, was distinguished for solidity and swift sailing.
The fleet was commanded by an admiral of little judgment and experience.

Among the crew there were but few Chilenos: most of the men were Chilotes and French, English
and American deserters. The officers commanding the ships were almost all Englishmen. The transport
ships were heavily laden, some carrying troops, and others provisions. These provisions consisted
of sesino (dried beef), chalonas (whole sheep dried), maize, potatoes, dried fruits and barley,
together with hay for the horses. The embarkation of the horses was most clumsily managed:
many were strangled in being hoisted up the ships' sides, others slipped through their girths
and were severely hurt by falling, and a considerable number of the poor animals died before
the ships left the port. Every morning we saw dozens of dead horses thrown over board. The
continued lurching of the vessels in which the cavalry was embarked, bore evidence of the inconvenient
situation of the horses between decks.

At the beginning of July the whole squadron sailed for the harbor of Coquimbo, where the troops
were decimated by the small-pox.

There prevailed in Chile a feeling very adverse to this campaign; so much so that most of the
troops were embarked by force. I was standing on the muele when the Santiago battalion was
shipped. The soldiers, who were in wretched uniforms, most of them wearing ponchos, and unarmed,
were bound together two-and-two by ropes, and absolutely driven into the boats.

This war proved most unfortunate to Peru, a result which, however, cannot certainly be ascribed
either to the courage of the enemy's troops or the judgment of their commanders. We shall presently
see the circumstances which combined to secure triumph to the Chilenos.

I and my fellow-voyagers were also sufferers by the war, our captain having imprudently announced
his intention of selling the Edmond to the protector Santa Cruz, as she might easily have been
transformed into an excellent corvette. She was a quick sailer, tight-built, carrying ten guns
of moderate calibre, and she might easily have mounted ten more.

The captain's intention having reached the knowledge of the Chilian government, the natural
consequence was, that the port was closed, a measure deemed the more necessary inasmuch as
an American captain was suspected of entertaining the design of selling his ship to the Peruvians.
It was not until the fleet had had time to reach Peru, and the first blow was supposed to be
struck, that the embargo was raised, and we obtained leave to depart. We lay in the port of
Valparaiso five-and-forty days. To me the most annoying circumstance attending this delay was,
that I could not absent myself from the port longer than twenty-four hours at a time, as the
ship was constantly in readiness to get under weigh, as soon as we should receive permission
to sail, which was hourly expected. My excursions were, therefore, confined to the immediate
neighborhood of the town; and even there my walks and rides were much impeded by constant stormy
and rainy weather.

On the 29th of July, preparations were made on board our ship for celebrating the Paris revolution
of 1830. At eight o'clock in the morning we fired three guns, and the Edmond was soon decorated
from her deck to her mast-heads with flags and streamers. At the fore-mast gaily floated the
Swiss flag, probably the first time it had ever been seen in the Pacific. When the guns on
board the French ship-of-war had ceased firing, we began our salute; but, as we had only ten
guns, it was necessary to load a second time. Our seamen, being unused to this kind of duty,
did not observe due precaution, and the consequence was that one of them had his hand so dreadfully
shattered that immediate amputation was indispensable. The day's rejoicing was thus suddenly
brought to a melancholy close.

The mole in front of the custom-house is exceedingly dangerous; so much so, that, during the
prevalence of stormy north winds, it is impossible to pass along it. From the shore a sort
of wooden jetty stretches into the sea, at the distance of about sixty paces. This jetty has
been sometimes partially, and at other times completely, destroyed by the waves. The harbor-master's
boats, and those belonging to the ships-of-war, land on the right side; the left side is allotted
to the boats of the merchant ships. On the shore there are always a number of boats ready to
convey persons who wish to go on board the different ships. Each boat is generally rowed by
two Indians. Whenever any person approaches the shore he is beset by the boatmen, who throng
round him, and alternately, in English and Spanish, importune him with the questions,--"Want
a boat?" "Vamos á bordo?"

Day and night, parties of custom-house officers go round the port for the purpose of preventing
smuggling. In this, however, they only partially succeed; for they detect only petty smugglers,
whilst those who carry on contraband trade on a large scale elude their vigilance. The captains
of French vessels are notorious for this kind of traffic, and they frequently succeed in landing
vast quantities of goods surreptitiously.

The police of Valparaiso is probably as good as it is in any part of South America. Serenos
(watchmen) perambulate the streets on foot and on horseback, and continually give signals one
to another by blowing small whistles. For personal safety there is little risk, probably not
more than in the most populous cities of Europe. It is true that nocturnal murders sometimes
take place; but the police speedily succeed in capturing the criminals, who, after a summary
trial, are shot.

In Valparaiso, as in most of the towns on the western coast of South America, the serenos go
about all night, calling the hours and announcing the state of the weather. At ten o'clock
they commence with their--"Viva Chile!"--"Ave Maria purissima!"--"Las diez han dado y sereno!"
(past ten o'clock and a fine night!) or nublado (cloudy),--or lloviendo (raining). Thus, they
continue calling every half-hour till four o'clock in the morning. Should an earthquake take
place it is announced by the sereno when he goes his round in the following half hour. However,
the phenomenon usually announces itself in so positive a way, that the inhabitants may easily
dispense with the information of the serenos.

Among the most remarkable objects in Valparaiso may be numbered the moveable prison. It consists
of a number of large covered wagons, not unlike those used for the conveyance of wild beasts.
In the inside of each wagon, planks are fixed up like the board bedsteads in a guard-house,
affording resting-places for eight or ten prisoners. A guard is stationed at the door, which
is at the back of the wagon; and in the front a sort of kitchen is constructed. These wagons
are drawn by the prisoners themselves, who are for the most part destined to work in the streets
and roads, and, accordingly, they take their prison with them when they are ordered to any
considerable distance from the town. To a country in which there may be said to be no winter,
this sort of nomad prison is exceedingly well-suited, and the prisoners may be conveyed from
place to place at very little expense.

I went into some of these moveable prisons, and I must confess that I never beheld such an
assemblage of ill-looking faces as were collected within them. In the countenances of some
of the prisoners unbridled passion and degrading sensuality were so plainly and so odiously
portrayed, that one shuddered to reflect that such features could be an index of the human
mind. Most of them were Creole Indians; but there were a few Europeans among them. To me it
was melancholy to behold the European, who might be supposed to possess some little share of
education, mounting the prison steps chained to his fellow-criminal, the uncivilized Chileno.

In Valparaiso, as in all seaports, there is a heterogeneous mixture of different countries,
nations, languages, and manners, amidst which the national character of the country is entirely
lost. The trade in European goods is very extensive, but almost exclusively in the hands of
a few great North American and English houses, who supply the whole country with the articles
they import. At times, such is the overstock of importations, that goods are sold at lower
prices in Valparaiso than in Europe. The warehouses are so filled with some sorts of merchandise,
that without any fresh supplies there would be sufficient for some years to come.

Among the clerks in the mercantile houses I met with a great number of Germans, who all maintain
an intimate association with each other. They have formed themselves into a union, and they
have a very commodious place in which they hold their meetings. Following their example, the
English have united together and established several clubs. The French have not gained any
considerable footing in this part of South America, in which there are scarcely two French
mercantile houses of any consequence. On the other hand, there is abundance of French hairdressers,
tailors, shoemakers, jewellers, confectioners, and Chevaliers d'industrie. Neither is there
any want of Modistes Parisiennes et Bordelaises.

Valparaiso is yearly increasing in extent and in the numbers of its inhabitants; but the town
makes little improvement in beauty. That quarter which is built along the Quebradas is certainly
susceptible of no improvement, owing to the unfavorable locality, and it is only the newly-built
houses on the heights that impart to the town anything like a pleasing aspect. In laying out
buildings in a place like Valparaiso, the aid of art should make amends for the defects of
nature. My visits to Valparaiso did not produce a very favorable impression on me. The exclusively
mercantile occupations of the inhabitants, together with the poverty of the adjacent country,
leave little to interest the attention of a mere transient visitor. The case may be different
with persons who, having longer time than I had to stay in the town, may enjoy opportunities
of entering into society, and occasionally visiting the pleasant valley of Quillota and the
interesting capital Santiago.

The latter is thirty leagues distant from the port; but a very active communication is kept
up between the two places, and better roads would, no doubt, increase the intercourse. A few
years ago the roads were very unsafe; but now the journey may be performed without danger if
the Birlocheros (coach-drivers) are in the least degree careful.

The zoology of the neighborhood of Valparaiso is not very interesting, though more so along
the sea-shore than in parts further inland. Among the Mammalia are sometimes seen the fox (Canis
Azaræ, Wild.), and the pole-cat. In the immediate vicinity of the town a very large mouse is
seen in the burrows of the ground; it is of the eight-toothed species (Octodon Cummingii, Benn.),
and has a brush-formed tail. As the fields round Valparaiso are not cultivated these animals
do no harm, otherwise they would be the plague of agriculture, and probably are so in the interior
parts of the country. Now and then a sea-dog may be observed in the bay; but the whale is seldom
seen, and whenever one appears he is immediately killed, as there is always a whaler at anchor
and not far off.

In the market, live condors are frequently sold. These birds are caught in traps. A very fine
one may be purchased for a dollar and a half. I saw eight of these gigantic birds secured in
a yard in a very singular manner. A long narrow strap of leather was passed through the nostrils
of the bird and firmly knotted at one end, whilst the other end was fastened to a wooden or
iron peg fixed in the ground. By this means the motion of the bird was not impeded: it could
walk within the range of a tolerably wide circle; but on attempting to fly it fell to the ground
head foremost. It is no trifling matter to provide food for eight condors; for they are among
the most ravenous of birds of prey. The owner of those I saw assured me that, by way of experiment,
he had given a condor, in the course of one day, eighteen pounds of meat (consisting of the
entrails of oxen); that the bird devoured the whole, and ate his allowance on the following
day with as good an appetite as usual. I measured a very large male condor, and the width from
the tip of one wing to the tip of the other was fourteen English feet and two inches--an enormous
expanse of wing, not equalled by any other bird except the white albatross. (Diomedea exulans,
Linn.). The snipes (Scolopax frenata, Ill.) found on the little plain between the bay and the
light-house are in color precisely like those of Europe, from which, however, they differ in
having two more feathers in their tails. Small green parrots, little bigger than finches, are
tamed and brought to Valparaiso from the interior of the country. These parrots are very docile,
and are easily taught to speak; but they cannot endure cold, and require to be tended with
very great care. In the bay itself there are numerous cormorants, and occasionally penguins
and large flights of the cut-water or shear-bill (Rhynchops nigra, Linn.). The latter is distinguished
by a sharp-pointed bill closing laterally, the under mandible being about double the length
of the upper one. But the most beautiful bird in the bay of Valparaiso is the majestic swan
(Cygnus nigricollis, Mol.), whose body is of dazzling white, whilst the head and neck are black.

On the 13th of August we at length obtained leave to sail. Early on the morning of the 14th
we weighed anchor; and, as we sailed out of the Bay of Valparaiso, the summit of Aconcagua
soon disappeared in the blue horizon.

With a favorable east wind we reached, in thirty-six hours, the island of Juan Fernandez, which
lies in the latitude of Valparaiso. Ships from Europe, bound to Peru, which do not go into
Chile, usually touch at Juan Fernandez to test their chronometers. It consists in fact of three
islands, forming a small compact group. Two of them, in accordance with the Spanish names,
may be called the Inward Island and the Outward Island, for the most easterly is called Mas
a Tierra (more to the main land), that to the west is called Mas a Fuera (more towards the
offing). That to the south, which is almost a naked rock, is the Isla de Lobos, which we may
call Sea-dog Island. The two first are covered with grass and trees. Mas a Tierra is much longer,
and better suited for cultivation than Mas a Fuera. In form the two islands have a striking
resemblance to Flores and Cordua, islands of the group of the Azores. Until within these twenty
years, Mas a Tierra was the place of exportation for convicts from Chile; but as it was found
that the facility of escape is great, none are now sent there. In 1812 a number of prisoners
of war were confined there, but the rats, which had increased in an extraordinary degree, consumed
all the provisions sent from Chile. Several fruitless attempts have been made to populate the
island, but that object is now given up, and it is only occasionally visited by sea-dog hunters.
Ulloa speaks of the great number of sea-calves or dogs with which the island was frequented,
and distinguishes kinds which belong to the short-eared species. Their skins are excellent,
and they sell at a good price in England. Wild goats are numerous, and their propagation would
be excessive were it not for the multitude of dogs, also wild, by which they are destroyed.

There is yet another kind of interest attached to Juan Fernandez. It was on Mas a Tierra that,
in 1704, the celebrated English navigator, Dampier, landed his coxswain, Alexander Selkirk,
with whom he had quarrelled, and left him there with a small quantity of provisions, and a
few tools. Selkirk had lived four years and four months on this uninhabited island, when he
was found there by the bucaneers Woods and Rogers, and brought back to Europe. From the notes
which he made during his solitary residence, the celebrated Daniel Defoe composed his incomparable
work, ROBINSON CRUSOE.

The weather continued favorable, and in about a week we doubled the west point of San Lorenzo
Island, where some Chilian cruizers were watching the coast. We soon entered the fine bay of
Callao, and cast anchor in the harbor of the Ciudad de los Reyes. While rounding the island,
an American corvette spoke us. She had left Valparaiso on the same day with us, and sailed
also through the strait between San Lorenzo and the main land; yet, during the whole passage,
we never saw each other.

No signals were exchanged between us and the shore, and no port-captain came on board. We were
exceedingly anxious to know the issue of the Chilian expedition. Hostile ships of war lay off
the port, but the Peruvian flag waved on the fort. At last a French naval cadet came on board,
and informed us that the Chilians had landed successfully, and had taken Lima by storm two
days previously. They were, at that moment, besieging the fortress. We immediately went on shore.

The town presented a melancholy aspect. The houses and streets were deserted. In all Callao
we scarcely met a dozen persons, and the most of those we saw were negroes. Some of the inhabitants
came gradually back, but in the course of a month scarcely a hundred had returned, and for
safety they slept during the night on board merchant ships in the bay. At the village of Bella
Vista, a quarter of a mile from Callao, the Chilians had erected their batteries for bombarding
the fortress. As it was difficult to obtain provisions, the commanders of the foreign ships
of war sent every morning a small detachment of sailors with a steward to Bella Vista, to purchase
meat and vegetables. The merchant-ships joined in the practice, so that early every morning
a long procession of boats with flags flying proceeded to the Chilian camp. But a stop was
soon put to this, as an English butcher in Callao found means to go with the boats for the
purpose of purchasing large quantities of meat, which he afterwards sold at an immense profit,
to the fortress. Though the besieged did not suffer from want, they were far from having superfluity.

Having sufficient time to make myself acquainted with the country in the immediate vicinity
of Callao, I took advantage of every opportunity for excursions; going from place to place
by water, which was more safe than journeying by land.

The bay of Callao is one of the largest and calmest on the west coast of South America. On
the south-west, it is bounded by the sterile island of San Lorenzo; on the north it flows into
the creeks, which are terminated by the Punta Gorda, the Punta Pernal, the Punta de dos Playas,
and the Punta de Doña Pancha. The beach is flat, for the most part shingly, and about the mouth
of the Rimac, somewhat marshy. Between the mouth of the Rimac and that of the Rio de Chillon,
which is a little southward of the Punta Gorda, there is a tract of rich marshy soil. A small
boot-shaped tongue of land stretches from the fortress westward to San Lorenzo. On this spot
are the ruins of old Callao.

San Lorenzo is a small, long-shaped island, about 15 English miles in circumference. It is
intersected throughout its whole length by a ridge of sharp crested hills, of which the highest
point is about 1387 feet above the level of the sea. On the north-eastern side, the declivity
is less steep than on the south-west, where it descends almost perpendicularly into the sea.
Seals and sea-otters inhabit the steep rocks of the southern declivity, and swarms of sea-birds
nestle on the desolate shore. San Lorenzo is separated on the southern side by a narrow strait,
from a small rocky island called El Fronton, which is also the abode of numerous seals.

The coasts of Callao and San Lorenzo have undergone very remarkable changes within a few centuries.
Mr. Darwin, the English geologist, is of opinion that this part of Peru has risen eighty-five
feet since it has had human inhabitants. On the north-eastern declivity of San Lorenzo, which
is divided into three indistinctly marked terraces, there are numbers of shells of those same
species of conchyliæ which are at the present time found living on the coast.

San Lorenzo does not appear to have been inhabited in very early ages. The fragments of human
industry which have been found mixed in the shells have probably been brought thither by fishermen
who visit the island, and often pass the night on it.

But satisfactory evidence of the sinking of the coast is not to be obtained in a visit of a
few weeks' duration; nor must that evidence rest solely on geological facts, though doubtless
they furnish much important data. History must aid the inquiry. Tradition and the recollections
of old persons must be attended to. According to these authorities, a change more or less considerable
has taken place in the level of the coast, after every great earthquake. If we refer to the
account given by Ulloa, and compare the plan of the harbor of Callao, drawn by him in 1742,
with the most correct modern charts, we do not find much difference in the representations
of the distance between the main-land and San Lorenzo. Four years afterwards the great earthquake
occurred, which destroyed the city of Callao, and plunged it into the sea. Subsequently there
was a rising of the coast, which could not be inconsiderable, for according to the statements
of old inhabitants of Callao, the distance from the coast to San Lorenzo was so inconsiderable
that boys used to throw stones over to the island. At present the distance is nearly two English
miles. I have no doubt of the general correctness of those statements, for a careful investigation
of facts leads to the same conclusion; so that within the last sixty or seventy years the sinking
must have been considerable. It must be observed, however, that the ruins on the small tongue
of land are not, as Darwin supposes, the remains of the city of Callao, swallowed up by the
sea in 1746, but of the Callao which was destroyed by the great earthquake of 1630.

Another proof of the sinking exists in the extensive shallow between the coast of the main-land
and San Lorenzo, called the Camotal. In early times this shallow was dry land, producing vegetables,
in particular Camotes (sweet potatoes), whence the name of this portion of the strait is derived.
The inundation took place in the time of the Spaniards, but before 1746, either in the great
earthquake of 1687, or in that of 1630.

Northward of the Bay of Callao, near the plantation of Boca Negra, there is a shallow, where,
according to records, there existed a sugar plantation about fifty years ago. Turning to the
south of Callao, in the direction of Lurin, we find, at the distance of about two English miles
from the coast, two islands or rocks, of which one is called Pachacamac, and the other Santa
Domingo. At the time of the Spanish invasion these rocks were connected with the main-land,
and formed a promontory. On one of them stood a temple or castle. At what period they were
detached from the coast I have not been able to ascertain authentically; but there appears
reason to suppose that the separation took place during the violent earthquake of 1586. Attentive
investigations to the north of Callao--at Chancay, Huacho, Baranca, &c., would probably bring
to light further evidence on this subject.

Between the facts stated by Mr. Darwin and those here adduced, there is considerable discrepancy.
On the one hand they denote a rising, and on the other a sinking. But it may be asked, might
not both these phenomena have occurred at different times?[3] Mr. Darwin's opinion respecting
the still-continued rising of the coast does not appear to me to rest on satisfactory evidence.
The relics of human industry which he found embedded among shells, at the height of eighty-five
feet above the sea, only prove that the elevation has taken place after the land was inhabited
by the human race, but do not mark the period at which that elevation occurred. Pieces of cotton
thread and plaited rush are no proofs of a very refined degree of civilisation, such as the
Spaniards brought with them to Peru, and cannot therefore be taken as evidence that the elevation
took place at any period subsequent to the conquest. Garcilaso de la Vega traces the dynasty
of the Incas down to the year 1021, a period when the inhabitants of the coast of Peru were
tolerably well advanced in civilisation. Fernando Montesinos furnishes facts connected with
the history of Peru, of several thousand years' earlier date; and, judging from the number
of dynasties, the nature of the laws, &c., it may be inferred that civilisation existed at
a period of even more remote antiquity. It cannot therefore be determined with any accuracy
at what time the deposit at San Lorenzo, now eighty-five feet high, was level with the sea,
or whether the rise suddenly followed one of those frightful catastrophes which have so often
visited the western coast of South America. Then, again, the different degrees of decay presented
by the beds of shells seem to indicate that the rising has been gradual; and it may have been
going on for thousands of years. Had the coast risen eighty-five feet since the Spanish conquest--that
is to say, within the space of three hundred and sixty-two years--the Camotal would long since
have again risen above the surface of the sea; for it is very improbable that it sank to a
depth exceeding ninety or ninety-five feet. It is evident that risings and sinkings have occurred
at various times, and that causes contingent on earthquakes have produced the variations in
the rising and falling of the coast.

It is probable that the accurate sounding of the depth of water in the Camotal, at stated intervals,
would furnish the best means of ascertaining the rising and sinking of the coast. A variety
of circumstances combine to favor the practicability of calculation by this method. For example,
no river flows into that part of the bay in which the Camotal is situated. The Rimac, whose
mouth lies further to the north, is not sufficiently large to carry any considerable deposit
into the bed of the bay: moreover, there is but little tide, and the bay is always calm, being
sheltered on the south by the island of San Lorenzo, and north breezes are rare and never violent.

I may here mention a singular phenomenon which has in latter times often occurred at Callao,
and which, in 1841, I had myself the opportunity of observing. About two in the morning the
sea flowed from the shore with greater force than in the strongest ebb; the ships farthest
out were left dry, which is never the case in an ebb tide. The alarm of the inhabitants was
great when the sea rushed instantly back with increased force. Nothing could withstand its
fury. Meanwhile there was no commotion of the earth, nor any marked change of temperature.

In the earthquake of 1746 Callao was completely overwhelmed by the sea. Several travellers
have related that on calm days with a clear sky the old town may be seen beneath the waves.
I have also heard the same story from inhabitants of Callao. It is doubtless a mere fable.
Under the most favorable circumstances I have often examined the spot--the Mar brava, as it
is called--without being able to discover a trace of the ruins of old Callao.

The existing town of Callao is small, and by no means pleasant. In winter it is damp and dirty,
and in summer so dusty that in passing through the streets one is almost choked. Most of the
houses are very slightly built, and they are usually only one story high. The walls are constructed
of reeds, plastered over with loam or red clay. All the roofs are flat, being made of straw
mats laid on a frame-work of reeds, which is also plastered with loam on the under side. The
windows are in the roof, and consist of wooden trap-doors, which look very much like bird-cages.
They have no glass panes, but gratings made of wooden spars. On the inside there is a window-shutter,
and a string hangs down into the apartment, by means of which the shutter can be opened or closed.

The most interesting object seen in Callao is the splendid fortress. Though built on a flat
surface close to the sea, it has a magnificent appearance. It consists of two castles, the
largest of which the Spaniards named Real Filippe, but since the Revolution it is called Castillo
de la Independencia. It has two round towers, wide, but not very high. The court-yards are
spacious. The walls are thick, rather low, and surrounded by a ditch, which can be filled with
water from the sea. To the south of this castle there is a smaller one, called El Castillo
del Sol. Before the War of Independence they mounted both together four hundred pieces of cannon,
many of which were of very large calibre. At present they have only sixty pieces of cannon
and seventy-one carronades.

On the fortress of Callao the Spanish flag waved long after independence was declared in all
the countries of Spanish South America. The Spanish general, Rodil, threw himself into the
castle, and with wonderful resolution held out against a siege of a year and a half. During
the last three months the Spaniards suffered all the privations and miseries which a besieged
army must endure within the tropics.

Lord Cochrane blockaded the fortress by sea, and General Bartolome Salom drew up his army on
the land side. More than 4,000 Spaniards fled to the castle with all their valuable property,
and took refuge under Rodil's protection. The greater part of the fugitives belonged to the
principal families of the country. When provisions began to fail, the commandant found it necessary
to expel 400 women, and one morning they issued forth in a long line of procession. The besiegers
supposed that the enemy was making a sortie, and directed the fire of their artillery against
the helpless beings, who, uttering loud shrieks, attempted to save themselves by flight. As
soon as the mistake was discovered the firing stopped, and the women were conveyed to Lima.
Insurrections were several times attempted by the garrison of Callao; but the presence of mind
and cool resolution of Rodil in every instance enabled him to suppress these mutinies. The
guilty were punished with so much severity that the soldiers soon gave up all further attempts.
Horses, asses, dogs and cats, became at length the food of the besieged. Rodil at this time
carried on a traffic which does no honor to his character. He had a quantity of provisions
stored, which he now sold at immense prices. For a fowl he got from three to four gold ounces.
He demanded proportional prices for bread, &c. A contagious fever broke out, and, of more than
4000 persons who had taken refuge in the fortress, only about 200 survived the siege. Hunger
and disease at last obliged Rodil to yield. On the 19th of February, 1826, he obtained an honorable
capitulation, and embarked with his acquired wealth for Spain, where he was invested with the
rank of commander-in-chief of the infantry guards.

Since the independence of Peru this fortress has often been the seat of partial revolutions.
Its death-doom has been pronounced by different governments, and it will be a fortunate event
for the country when it ceases to exist as a place of warlike defence. It has lately been found
useful for other purposes, and a great portion of its vast space has been converted into custom-house
warehouses.

The siege of Callao by the Chilians, of which we were eye-witnesses, was by no means such a
serious affair as that undertaken by the patriots. The squadron was weak, and the land army
inconsiderable. Callao was only cannonaded during the night by some Chilian gun-boats commanded
by Englishmen. The artillery of the castle was inefficient, but the Chilian bombs did considerable
damage. One Sunday afternoon the little Chilian brig, "Colocolo," sailed in close under the
walls of the fortress, and threw in some shot. The fire was immediately returned by all the
guns that could be directed to the sea-side; but in vain did the Peruvians expend their shot.
Every ball went over the "Colocolo," and fell among the neutral ships. The commander of the
French squadron then sent a boat to the fortress, with a declaration that he would attack it
in good earnest if the fire was not discontinued. The message had due effect.

A few days after the affair with the "Colocolo," the Peruvians had an opportunity of avenging
the provocations they had received. The Chilian admiral sent an officer, with seven sailors,
to our ship to purchase shoes. The garrison having observed the Chilian boat, sent out a shallop
with twenty-five men, which came close alongside of us. In spite of our opposition the Chilian
officer leaped into his boat and stood off. He was, however, too late; for, just as he was
leaving the ship's side, the hostile shallop passed under our bowsprit, and fired a volley
into the Chilian boat. Five sailors fell into the sea, either killed or wounded. Of three men
picked up, one was the officer, who had received two wounds from musket balls. We saved one
of the wounded sailors by throwing him a rope, by which we pulled him up, covering him with
the French flag.

The Peruvians had no longer a fleet strong enough to keep at sea; but soon after their government
purchased the "Edmond," and some other merchantmen, and fitted them up as privateers. The command
was given to M. Blanchet, who had been first pilot of the "Edmond" during our voyage from Europe.
After he had taken the "Arequipena," an old Chilian ship of war, and burnt several transports,
he attacked three Chilian corvettes in the harbor of Casma. They had already struck their flags,
when Blanchet was shot while boarding one of them. His loss damped the courage of the Corsairs,
and the contest was soon given up. The shock of Blanchet's death had such an effect on the
crew of the "Edmond," that they all went down between decks in great grief, except the cook,
who fired a gun he had charged to the brim, and killed some men who were on a bowsprit of one
of the hostile vessels. He then sprang to the helm, and steered the ship safely into one of
the inlets of the bay.

The lover of natural history finds in the bay of Callao numerous opportunities for gratifying
his curiosity. The mammalia are not very numerous. Sea otters and sea dogs are found there,
as on all parts of the South American coast. Two species (the Otaria aurita, Humb., and the
O. Ulloæ, Tsch.) inhabit the southern declivity of the Fronton. I went to hunt seals on the
rock with the officers of a French ship of war. When we landed, which was difficult on account
of the breakers, we fired at the animals and killed a number of them. A sailor waded through
the breakers and bound the dead seals with a rope, by which he drew them on board. As we shot
a great number of birds, the Chilian admiral, on hearing the firing, thought that one of his
ships must be engaged with the Peruvian Corsairs; and, therefore, sent out the "San Lorenzo"
brig of war to see what was going on.

The bay abounds in fine water-fowl. Amongst the most remarkable is Humboldt's penguin (Spheniscus
Humboldti, Mey.). A few are smaller than the common grey penguin, and one is somewhat different
in color on the back and breast. The Peruvians call it Paxaro niño (the child bird). It is
easily tamed, becomes very social, and follows its master like a dog. It is amusing to see
it waddling along with its plump body and short legs, and keeping itself in equilibrium by
moving its floating wings. I had one completely tame, which I bought from an Indian. It was
named Pepe, and it answered readily to the name. When I was at my meals he regularly placed
himself beside my chair, and at night he slept under my bed. When he wished to bathe he went
into the kitchen and beat with his bill on an earthen pan until somebody threw water over him,
or brought him a vessel full of water for a bath.

I brought away a few of the marine birds which appeared the most remarkable. Among them was
the banded cormorant (Carbo Gaimardi, Less.). On the back it is grey, marbled by white spots;
the belly is fine ash-grey, and on each side of the throat there runs a broad white stripe
or band. The bill is yellow and the feet are red. The iris is peculiar; I never saw its like
in any other bird. It changes throughout the whole circle in regular square spots, white and
sea-green. Thousands of the spotted gannet (Sula variegata, Tsch.) inhabit the rocks of the
island of San Lorenzo. This bird is the greatest producer of guano. The inca tern (Sterna luca,
Less.) is without doubt the finest of the whole tern family. The color of the head is brown-grey;
getting darker towards the tail, and brighter on the lower body. From the root of the bill
on either side there shoot out some white feathers slightly curving, so that they give the
appearance of white moustachios. Among the land birds are some very fine colibri (Trochilus
Amazilia, and Tr. Cora, Less.). The horse-protector (Crotophaga sulcata, Swains.) is a singular
animal. It is about the size of a starling, with a short, compressed and curved bill, having
several deep furrows along its sides. The tail is long and fan-shaped. The whole body is of
a deep blue color, with a slight metallic brightness. The bird is very social with cattle of
all kinds, and more particularly with horses. It is fond of perching on the back of a horse
or an ass, and searching for insects which it finds there in abundance. These animals are very
sensible of the service thus rendered to them, and by the manner in which they move about when
the bird is perched on their heads or necks, show how much they are gratified by its presence.

Foreigners, when they visit the coast of Peru for the first time, are much surprised at the
immense number of birds of the vulture species which they meet with about the roads and on
the roofs of the houses. In Callao and in all other ports the Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura,
Illig.) is frequently seen. It is called by the Spaniards Gallinazo á cabéza colorada (red-headed
vulture). Further in the interior of the country it is frequently seen, though there it is
less common than the black gallinazo (Cathartes foetens, Illig.). The color of the former is
dark brownish-black; the unplumed head and throat are red; the throat is full of wrinkles and
warts. The latter is very like it in size and color, only the head and neck are greyish black.
These birds are the size of a turkey-cock; but they are lanker and more angular in form. The
black-headed gallinazo is inactive, heavy, and seldom flies far. When seeking food he hops
about on the ground in short, regular springs. When he wishes to move faster forwards he helps
himself with his wings, but without flying. Its cry is seldom heard and never long continued.
At noon, sometimes from sixty to eighty of these birds perch themselves on the tops of the
houses or on the adjoining walls, and with the heads under the wing they all go to roost. They
are extremely voracious, and devour every sort of animal substance they can find, however filthy
it may be. They are not in the least degree shy, for they hop about among men and cattle in
the most populous places. The Turkey vulture is far more lively, and its movements are more
light. It flies faster, and continues longer on the wing than the black-headed gallinazo. It
is, however, more timid. It nestles in sandy rocks and uninhabited islands. The female lays
three or four whitish eggs, which are hatched in February and March. The common gallinazo usually
builds its nest on the tops of houses, churches, ruins, and high walls. The female lays three
or four eggs, which are whitish brown and speckled, and are hatched in the same months as the
eggs of the Turkey vulture.

Among the amphibia in Callao, the iguana and land agama are numerous. Snakes abound in the
low bushes at the mouth of the Rimac, and some kinds, which are venomous, live on the arid
sand-banks. All the sea tortoises have been driven out of the bay, and now inhabit the detached
creeks of the uninhabited parts of the coast.

The kinds of fish are numerous.--Sharks, rays, ballancers, corvinas, bonitos, &c., are caught
in abundance. Most of the corvinas and bonitos are carried to market. The flesh of the latter
is firm, dry, and less savory than the corvina. The Pexe-rey (king-fish) is superior in flavor
to the Pexe-sapo (toad-fish), which is a little larger, and has a thick, fleshy head. These
fish are taken on rocks and under water, where they are struck by a kind of harpoon hooks and
drawn out.

When, on board the "Edmond," I first saw the towers of Lima gilded by the beams of the setting
sun, and the chains of hills behind, rising by gradations, until in the farthest background
they blended with the cloud-capped Cordilleras, I felt an inexpressible desire to advance towards
those regions, that I might breathe the air of the Andes, and there behold nature under her
wildest aspect. But these wishes were vain, and I was compelled to turn again to the desolate
ocean; for it was understood that our further voyage must be towards the north, and from there
that we should proceed to the coast of Asia. I did not then foresee that my longing might be
fulfilled, and that so much of enjoyment, together with so much toil and danger, awaited me
in the mountainous regions of Peru.

Notwithstanding the insecurity of the road to Lima I resolved to proceed thither. Carriages
and horses were not to be procured in Callao, for the latter were all either seized for the
service of the government or concealed. I could therefore travel only on foot. Don Manuel de
la Guarda, the commander of the fortress, observed, whilst giving me a passport, that he would
advise me to use speed, and to get as soon as possible out of the range of the guns, for he
expected every moment to be obliged to order the firing to commence. I did not neglect to follow
his advice. However I had not got more than a hundred paces from the castle when the artillery
began to play, and balls fell around on every side. I quickened my pace, and soon got near
some fences, where men were firing with muskets. There I was seized by some Chilian cuirassiers,
who sent me forward from post to post, until at last in one of the posts I met with an officer
with whom I had been acquainted in Chile. When I was dining one day on board the corvette Confederacion
in the bay of Valparaiso, the young officer whom I have just alluded to sat next me. The conversation
happening to turn on phrenology, he insisted on my examining his head, and pronouncing a phrenological
diagnosis on it. Though I assured him that I attached no value on this alleged science, he
continued to urge me to make the examination. After feeling his head I observed to him, with
great gravity: "Here is the organ of mathematics pretty well developed, and it is probable
that you may distinguish yourself in that branch of knowledge." The fact was, I had observed
from his uniform that he belonged to the artillery, and since I was obliged to say something,
I thought it would be best to make my remarks refer to his profession. Don Antonio had not
forgotten it, for as soon as he saw me at the outpost, he ran up to me quite overjoyed, and
told me that I had judged rightly of his talent, for the guns which he commanded always sent
their balls direct into the fortress, and did more execution than any other. By following my
advice and cultivating his mathematical organ, he assured me, he was enabled to direct a gun
better than any other officer, and his aim could always be relied on. He immediately procured
me a pass, by which I was conducted all the remainder of my journey.

The distance from Callao to Lima is two Spanish leagues. The road is covered with deep sand,
and on either side are uncultivated fields and low brushwood. After leaving Callao I came to
Bella Vista, then to the ruins of an old Indian village, and farther on inland reached some
plantations. Halfway between Callao and Lima is the convent of la Virgen del Carmen, and also
a chapel. The convent is now abandoned, but in front of the chapel there constantly stands
a monk, who begs for alms. Close to the convent there is a Tambo,[4] in which brandy, lemonade,
and bananas are sold. This place, which is called La Legna, is a Spanish league from both towns.
The hired horses are so used to put up at this place, that it is only with great trouble they
can be got to pass it.

Though much wearied by my journey on foot, I tried in vain to obtain some refreshment here.
Unluckily the Tambero, a Zambo, had decamped, as his house had often been plundered.

In the most oppressive heat I wandered over the shadeless plain, and at last reached the fine
road called the Alameda del Callao, which extends from the Callao Gate of Lima to nearly half
a league beyond the city. Don Ambrosio O'Higgins, an Irishman by birth, first a small shopkeeper
in Lima, then a soldier in Chile, and finally viceroy of Peru, with the title of Marques de
Osorno, built the fine Callao Gate and laid out the Alameda. On the 6th of January, 1800, it
was solemnly opened. The whole undertaking cost 340,964 dollars. Resting-places are made in
the Alameda at regular distances; and there are on each side charming gardens, with luxuriant
fruit-trees. Happy in having reached the end of my wearisome journey, I quickly passed through
the Callao Gate, and entered the City of the Kings.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: Natural History and Geology of the countries visited by the Beagle.]

[Footnote 3: Mr. Darwin, in the work just quoted, says in reference to this subject, "Since
our voyage, Dr. Tschudi has come to the conclusion, by the comparison of old and modern maps,
that the earth both north and south of Lima has certainly subsided."--T.]

[Footnote 4: Tambo is an Indian word, signifying an Inn.

Lima is built on both banks of the river Rimac, which divides the town into two unequal parts.[5]
The larger part (the town, properly so called) is situated on the southern bank of the river;
the smaller part, consisting of the suburb San Lazaro, or the fifth section, is on the northern
bank. The greatest extent of Lima is from east to west; from the Gate of Maravillas to the
Monserrate. Between those two points the distance is 4471 varas,[6] or two-thirds of a Legua,
or Spanish league; and the greatest breadth of the city, that is to say, from the Bridge (the
suburb of San Lazaro not included) to the Gate of Guadalupe, is 2515 varas, or two-fifths of
a Legua. The utmost circumference of Lima is about ten English miles. The plain on which the
city is built, takes rather a decided slope from east to west.

The streets of Lima intersect each other in right lines, and consequently groups of houses
form quadrangles: these are called manzanas. Each side of one of these manzanas measures on
the average from 140 to 145 varas; and it may therefore be computed that, collectively, they
occupy a superficies of from 148,000 to 160,000. There are in all 211 manzanas, of which those
situated on the Periphery are the smallest and most irregularly constructed. Lima is divided
into five sections, which are again subdivided into ten districts and forty-six Barrios. It
contains about 3380 houses, 56 churches and convents (the latter occupying at least one-fourth
of the superficies of the city), 34 squares or open areas in front of the churches, and 419
streets. On the average the streets are about 34 feet wide and 386 feet long. Most of them
are very badly paved, but they have lateral footpaths. According to the original plan for building
Lima, it was intended that all the streets should run in one direction, viz., from southeast
to northwest, so that the walls of the houses might afford shade both morning and afternoon.
Between the Plaza Mayor and Santa Clara this plan has been pretty uniformly carried out; but
in other parts it has been less rigidly observed. At noon there can be no shade, as the city
is situated in 12° of south latitude.

The impression produced at first sight of Lima is by no means favorable, for the Periphery,
the quarter which a stranger first enters, contains none but old, dilapidated, and dirty houses;
but on approaching the vicinity of the principal square, the place improves so greatly that
the miserable appearance it presents at first sight is easily forgotten.

Most of the houses in Lima are only one story high, and some have only the ground-floor. The
larger class of houses correspond one with another in the style of building. In front they
have two doors: one is called the Azaguan, and is the principal entrance to the house; and
next to it is the door of the Cochera (coach-house). Either above the cochera door, or on one
side of the house door, there is frequently a little chamber, having a window closed by a wooden
railing. At this little railed window the ladies are accustomed to sit and watch the passers-by--nor
are they very much displeased when some of the latter occasionally make free to reguardar la
reja (to look at the railing). The azaguan opens into a spacious court-yard called the Patio,
on either side of which there are little rooms. Directly facing the azaguan, is the dwelling-house,
round which there usually runs a balcony. Two large folding-doors lead into the Hall (Sala),
in which the furniture consists of a sofa, a hammock, and a row of chairs: the floor is covered
with straw matting. From the sala a glazed door opens into a smaller apartment, called the
Cuadro, which is elegantly, often splendidly furnished, and the floor is carpeted. This is
the room into which visitors are shown. Adjoining the cuadro are the sleeping-rooms, the dining-room,
the nursery, &c. These apartments communicate with a second court-yard, called the Traspatio,
the walls of which are often adorned with fresco paintings. This Traspatio, a portion of which
is usually laid out as a little garden, communicates with the kitchen and the stable (corral).
A small avenue, called the callejon, forms a communication from the first to the second Patio,
and is used as a passage for the horses. When there is no callejon, as is often the case in
the poorer class of houses, the horses are led through the sala and the cuadro. In the upper
story the arrangement of the rooms differs from that of the ground-floor. Above the azaguan
is the cuadro, opening into a balcony, which is attached to most of the houses in Lima. The
sala in the upper story forms an ante-room to the cuadro; and the rest of the apartments are
built above the ranges of ground-floor rooms on either side of the patio. Above the sala and
cuadro of the ground-floor, there are no upper rooms. The roofs of those two apartments form
a kind of large terrace called the Azotea, which is paved with freestone, and surrounded by
a railing. This azotea serves as a play-ground for the children of the family; it is ornamented
with flower-pots, and covered with an awning to shade it from the sun. The upper story has
a flat roof, composed of bamboos and mats, overspread with mortar or light tiles. In the houses
of Lima, as in those of Callao, the windows of some of the rooms are made in the roofs. The
other windows, of which there are but few, are on each side of the house door; they are tastefully
ornamented, and often have richly gilt lattices.

The style of house-building here described must of course be taken merely as a general example;
that there are numerous deviations from it may naturally be supposed. In the large houses the
walls are of brick, faced with ornamental tiles (adobes). In the smaller houses, the walls
consist of double rows of bamboos, covered with plaster, and afterwards painted white or yellow.
The fronts of the houses are usually quite plain, but here and there may be seen a house with
a finely ornamented façade. The house of Torre Tagle, near San Pedro, and some others, are
remarkable for the beauty of their ornaments, which attract the notice of all strangers visiting
Lima.

Owing to the heat of the climate, the doors and windows are almost always kept open, so that
the houses have not the privacy and comfort of European dwellings.

Of the numerous churches and convents in Lima, some are deserving of particular mention. The
cathedral occupies the whole eastern side of the Plaza Mayor. The foundation stone of this
edifice was laid on the 18th of January, 1534, by Don Francisco Pizarro, who named it the Church
of Nuestra Señora de la Asuncion. Ninety years elapsed before the building was completed, and
on the 19th of October, 1625, it was consecrated by the Archbishop, Don Gonzalo de Ocampo.
Such was the pomp observed at this ceremony, that, though mass commenced at six in the morning,
it was five o'clock in the afternoon before the host was raised.

The interior of the cathedral is exceedingly beautiful. The grand altar is ornamented with
seven Ionic columns of silver, twelve feet high, and one and a half thick, and is surmounted
by a massive silver gilt crown. The tabernacle is seven feet and a half high, and composed
of exquisitely wrought gold, set with a profusion of diamonds and emeralds. On each side of
the altar there are massive silver candelabra, each weighing four and a half arobas (712-1/2
pounds). On high festival days, the gorgeous splendor of the cathedral of Lima probably exceeds
that of the principal churches in Rome. The robes and ornaments worn by the priests correspond
with the magnificence of the altar; they are embroidered in gold, and set with precious stones.
The cathedral service is performed by the canons (Canonigos).

Among the Churches of Lima, San Lazaro is distinguished for its tasteful exterior, and the
chaste simplicity of its internal decoration. The bodies of persons unknown, found dead in
the streets, are conveyed to the door of the church of San Lazaro, and there exposed for the
space of twenty-four hours.

The convent of San Francisco, the largest of the monastic establishments in Lima, is an immense
building, situated in the vicinity of the Plaza Mayor. In this convent mass is read daily every
half-hour, from five in the morning till noon. A small chapel within the convent is called
the Capilla de los Milagros, and a superstitious tradition records that during the great earthquake
of 1630, the image of the Madonna, which surmounts the chapel door, turned towards the grand
altar, and with folded hands invoked the divine grace in favor of the city. By this intercession
it is believed that Lima was saved from total destruction. The monk who conducted me over the
convent, and who related to me this miracle, observed with much simplicity that it was singular
that the Madonna did not repeat her gracious intercession in the year 1746.

The carved work which adorns the ceilings in the corridors is admirably executed, though not
very beautiful in design. The cells of the monks are very simple, but perfectly comfortable
for habitation. The spacious and well-arranged gardens within the area of the convent form
a pleasing contrast to the gloomy appearance of the external walls.

To the Franciscan monks also belongs the convent of Los Descalzos, situated in the suburb of
San Lazaro. A broad avenue planted with six rows of trees leads to Los Descalzos. It is a neat
but not large edifice, and stands at the foot of a sterile hill. The extensive garden which
surrounds it, and which is in a very neglected condition, contains three palm-trees, the only
ones to be seen in the near vicinity of Lima. The situation of the convent is not healthy,
and in consequence the monks frequently suffer from intermittent fever. These monks go barefooted,
and live entirely on alms. Every morning two lay brethren ride on asses to the city, where
they visit the market-place, and obtain from the different saleswomen charitable donations
of fish, vegetables, or meat.

Another convent is the Recoleta de San Diego. During Lent, and especially in Passion Week,
many men retire to this place to prepare themselves by mortification and prayer for confession
and participation in the Holy Sacrament.

The convent of Santo Domingo is very rich. It enjoys a yearly revenue of from seventy to seventy-five
thousand dollars, for the most part accruing from the ground-rents of houses in the city. The
steeple of Santo Domingo is the loftiest in all Lima. It is 188 feet high, and is visible at
the distance of three leagues. It is built of wood, and inclines so considerably in its upper
part, that there is little probability of its surviving another earthquake like that of 1746.
The interior of the church is splendid. The grand altar almost vies with that of the cathedral.

San Pedro must, doubtless, at a former period, have been the principal convent in Lima. It
belonged to the Jesuits, and was their Colegio maximo. This establishment possessed enormous
revenues, for all the finest plantations and best houses in Lima were the property of the order.
In 1773, the king of Spain, instigated by the celebrated Bull of the 21st of June of that year
(Dominus ac redemptor noster), dispatched an order to the viceroys of the provinces of South
America, directing them to arrest the Jesuits all in one night, to ship them off to Spain,
and to confiscate their wealth. Of course the utmost secresy was observed, and it is a well-authenticated
fact, that in Peru, with the exception of the viceroy, and those of his agents whose assistance
was indispensable, no one knew anything of the affair. But the same ship which conveyed the
king's commands to the viceroy, had on board the necessary instructions to the vicar-general
in Lima, from the superior of the Jesuits in Madrid, who was fully acquainted with the king's
design. The preparatory arrangements were made under the seal of perfect secresy, and at ten
o'clock at night the viceroy assembled his council, and communicated to them the royal commands.
It was determined that no one should be permitted to leave the council-chamber until the blow
was struck. At midnight some confidential officers, with the requisite assistance, were despatched
to arrest the Jesuits, an accurate list of whose names lay on the table before the viceroy.
The patrols knocked at the gate of San Pedro, which was immediately opened. The commanding
officer desired to see the vicar-general, and the porter ushered him into the great hall of
the convent, where all the members of the order were assembled, evidently expecting his visit.
The holy brethren were prepared for immediate departure, each being provided with a bag or
trunk containing such articles as were requisite on a sea voyage. Similar preparations had
been made in all the other convents belonging to the Jesuits. The surprise and disappointment
of the viceroy on receiving this information may be easier conceived than described. Without
delay he ordered the whole brotherhood to be conducted under a strong escort to Callao, where
they embarked. In the course of a few days inventories were made of the effects in the convents.
At San Pedro it was expected that vast treasures in specie would be found; but how great was
the dismay, when, instead of the millions which it was well known the order possessed, only
a few thousand dollars could be collected. All the keys, even that of the treasury, were politely
laid out in the chamber of the superior. This was a cruel mockery! The Jesuits could not have
taken a more ample revenge on the treachery that had been practised on them.

It was suspected that the treasures were concealed partly in the convent of San Pedro, and
partly in the plantations. According to the evidence of an old negro, at that time in the service
of the convent, he, together with some of his comrades, was employed during several nights
in carrying heavy bags of money into the vaults of the convent. Their eyes were bandaged, and
they were conducted by two of the brethren, who helped them to raise and set down the bags.
The negro, moreover, declared his conviction that there was a subterraneous spring near the
spot where the treasure was deposited. The searches hitherto made have been very superficial,
and it seems not impossible that by dint of more active exertions this concealed wealth may
yet be brought to light.

At present San Pedro is occupied by about a dozen lay priests. They perform the spiritual service
of the Oratorio de San Felipe Neri. They live on the revenues derived from the rents of the
few plantations which have not been confiscated or sold. The chapel is prettily fitted up in
the interior, and the midnight mass at Christmas is performed there with great solemnity. The
external walls of both the chapel and the convent are painted a reddish-brown color, which
has a very sombre and ugly effect.

The convents of Nuestra Señora de la Marced and San Agustin are situated at the back of San
Pedro. The former is spacious, but not largely endowed; the latter is a poor-looking edifice,
but it possesses rich revenues. To San Agustin is attached the once eminent but now very inferior
college of San Ildefonso.

Besides the monastic establishments above named, Lima contains several smaller convents for
friars, and sixteen nunneries. Of the latter the largest is the Monasterio de la Concepcion.
It is very rich, and has an annual revenue of upwards of 100,000 dollars; in other respects
it is remarkable for nothing except the not very pious habits of its inmates. Santa Clara and
the Encarnacion are also large establishments, and well endowed. The nuns who observe the most
rigorous conventual rules are the Capuchinas de Jesus Maria, the Nazarenas and the Trinitarias
descalzas. For extremely pious women, who wish to lead a cloistered life without taking the
veil, there are three establishments called Beaterios, which may be entered and quitted at
pleasure:[7] these are the Beaterio de Patrocinio, the Beaterio de Santa Rosa de Viterbo, and
the Beaterio de Copacabana. This last was originally established exclusively for Indian females.
The Refugio de San Jose is a place for the reception of married women who wish to withdraw
from the ill treatment of bad husbands. On the other hand husbands who are of opinion that
their wives may be improved by a little temporary seclusion and quiet meditation, can, with
the permission of the archbishop, send them for a while to the Refugio. The Recojidas is another
institution of the same kind, but destined for females of the poorer class.

Lima possesses a great many hospitals, but all are lamentably defective in internal arrangement,
and above all in judicious medical attendance. The largest of the hospitals, San Andres, was
founded in the year 1552 by the Licentiate Francisco de Molina. Three years afterwards, the
Viceroy Don Andres Hurtado de Mendoza, first Marquis de Cañete, placed it under the direction
of the Government. Down to the year 1826 this hospital was exclusively destined for the reception
of sick Spaniards. San Andres contains five large and four smaller wards, with 387 beds. One
part of the establishment is set apart for incurable patients. The annual outlay of the hospital
amounts to between 45,000 and 50,000 dollars. In the hospital of San Andres insane patients
are received, and their number is always considerable. On the 30th of November (St. Andrew's
Day) this hospital is opened for the admittance of the public, and one of the favorite amusements
of the inhabitants of Lima is to go to San Andres to see the lunatics. It is melancholy to
observe these unfortunate beings, thus made the objects of public exhibition, and irritated
by the idle throng who go to stare at them. The collection of alms from the numerous visitors
is, doubtless, the motive for keeping up this custom, which, nevertheless, is exceedingly reprehensible.

The hospital Santa Ana was founded in the year 1549, by Don Fray Geronimo de Loyza, first Archbishop
of Lima, and was destined for Indians of both sexes. The benevolent founder, with the most
earnest self-devotion, attended the patients, and with true Christian charity performed the
humblest duties of a sick-nurse. He died in 1575 in the hospital, to which he bequeathed a
yearly revenue of 16,000 dollars. The building contains five large wards, and 336 beds. Since
the declaration of independence no Indian has been received into it. This hospital, alternately
with those of San Andres and San Bartolome, was used as a military lazaretto; but since 1841
it has been allotted exclusively to female patients of all classes; for it was found necessary
to abandon the former female hospital of La Caridad, on account of its damp situation.

San Bartolome was an hospital founded in the year 1661, for negro patients; but it has lately
been closed. It contains eleven wards and 217 beds.

Under the name of Santo Toribio an hospital for incurable patients was established in the year
1669, by Don Domingo Cueto.

In 1702 it was consigned to the superintendence of an order of monks, called the padres Belemitas,
and in 1822 it was incorporated with the hospital of San Lazaro. The latter establishment was
founded by Anton Sanchez, in the year 1563, and was exclusively destined for leprous patients.
Persons afflicted with cutaneous diseases, and especially maladies of a contagious nature,
are sent thither.

In the convent of San Pedro there is a small hospital for poor priests. Attached to it is a
dispensary, from whence the poor were supplied gratuitously with medicines, at the time when
the convent was in the possession of the Jesuits.

Lima also possesses a Foundling Hospital. Luis Ojeda, who humbly took to himself the title
of Luis el Pecador (Luis the Sinner), bequeathed all his fortune to the foundation of this
establishment, which received the name of "Collegio de Santa Cruz de los niños expositos."[8]

The refuge for female penitents was founded in the year 1670 by the viceroy, Count de Lemos.
The funds were derived from a legacy bequeathed for that object by Don Francisco Arcain in
1572. The establishment has but few inmates.

In former times it was the custom in Lima to bury the dead in graves dug within the churches;
but the heat of the climate, and the difficulty of making the graves sufficiently deep, rendering
this practice exceedingly objectionable, the viceroy, Don Jose Fernando Abascal, determined
on making a burial place beyond the boundaries of the city. A piece of ground was allotted
for the purpose, and it was consecrated on the 1st of January, 1808. It is called the Cementerio
gèneral or Panteon, and is situated eastward of the city on the high road leading to the Sierra
de Tarma. It consists of two gardens, very prettily planted, and inclosed by high walls. Along
the walls, on the inner side, there are niches, about a thousand in number, ranged in sixteen
different classes, and they may be purchased by those who wish to possess them. Many of them
belong to families and convents. The graves are watched and kept in order by criminals who
are condemned to this duty as a punishment. It is calculated that it will be five years before
this cemetery is filled. When room is wanting, the niches which have been first occupied will
be cleared, and the bones deposited in a bone-house, of simple but appropriate construction.
At the entrance of the Panteon there is a neat little chapel, where the funeral obsequies are
performed. Burials are permitted to take place only in the morning; and when a funeral retinue
arrives too late, the body remains uninterred until the following morning. The rich are buried
in coffins, the poor merely in winding sheets, which are made after the pattern of the habits
worn by the barefooted friars of the order of San Francisco.

The grand square of Lima, the Plaza Mayor, though not in the centre of the city, is nevertheless
the central point of its life and business. It is 426 feet distant from the Rimac, and presents
a regular quadrangle, each side of which is 510 feet long. From each of the four corners two
handsome straight streets run at right angles. There is no pavement, but the ground is covered
with fine sand. The cathedral and the archbishop's palace occupy the eastern side of the square.
The latter adjoins the sanctuary, and has rather a fine façade. The windows of the principal
apartments open into a balcony, commanding a view of the Plaza.

On the north side of the square stands the government palace, formerly the residence of the
all-powerful viceroys. Its exterior aspect is mean. It is a square building, and the front
next the Plaza is disfigured by a long range of shabby little shops (called La rivera), in
which drugs are sold.[9] These shops are surmounted by a balcony. A large double door opens
from the Plaza into the great court-yard of the palace. Along the western side of the building
there are also a number of little shops occupied by saddlers and dealers in old iron. The street,
running in this direction, is called the Old Iron Street (Calle del Fierro Viego). The principal
entrance to the palace is on this side. On the south the building has no entrance, and it presents
the gloomy aspect of a jail. On the east a door opens into a small yard or court, within which
are the office and prison of the police. A few long flag-staffs, fixed on the roof of the palace,
do not add to the beauty of the edifice. The interior of the building corresponds with its
outward appearance, being at once tasteless and mean. The largest apartment formerly bore the
name of the Sala de los Vireyes. It is now used as a ball room when entertainments are given
by the government. Under the Spanish domination this room was hung round with portraits of
the viceroys, the size of life.[10] The series of vice-regal portraits from Pizarro to Pezuela,
forty-four in number, completely filled the apartment at the time when the patriot army in
Lima revolted, and consequently the last viceroy, Don Jose de la Serna, who owed his elevation
to the military revolution, could not have a place assigned for his portrait among those of
his predecessors.[11] The other apartments of the palace are small and inelegant. Some of the
rooms are used as government offices.

The present palace was, as far as I have been able to ascertain, built about the beginning
of the seventeenth century. In the great earthquake of 1687 it was almost totally destroyed,
but it was subsequently restored. The palace which Don Francisco Pizarro built for his own
residence, stood, not on the site of the existing edifice, but on the southern side of the
Plaza, on the spot where now a narrow dirty alley, called the Callejon de petateros, forms
a communication between the Plaza and the Silversmith's street (Calle de Plateros). It was
in that old palace that Juan de Herada, the friend and partisan of Don Diego de Almagra, carried
into effect his plot against Pizarro. On the 26th of June, 1546, the viceroy was seated at
table with a party of his friends, when the insurgents surrounded the palace, shouting "Death
to the tyrants!" Pizarro, though warned of his danger, had scarcely time to seize his sword.
One of his principal officers, Don Francisco de Chavez, was killed at the door of the apartment,
and several of the viceroy's friends and servants escaped by the windows. Among others who
attempted to save themselves in this way was Pizarro's counsellor, Juan de Velasquez. Only
on the previous evening this man had been heard to declare that no one would be found bold
enough to join in an insurrection as long as he held in his hand his staff of authority. This
declaration was in a certain measure verified, for Velasquez, whilst descending from the window,
held his staff between his teeth, that he might be the better able to support himself with
his hands. Martin Pizarro, together with two noblemen and two pages, were the only persons
who remained faithful to the viceroy. The latter, with the bravery of a lion, made a long stand
against his assailants. "Courage, brother! Down with the traitors!" exclaimed Martin Pizarro,
who, the next moment, lay dead at the viceroy's feet. At length Pizarro, exhausted by his efforts
to defend himself, could no longer wield his hitherto victorious sword: he was overpowered,
and one of his assailants having stabbed him in the throat, he fell, mortally wounded. With
his last faltering accents he implored the aid of a confessor; and after losing the power of
utterance he traced with his finger, on the ground, the sign of the cross, kissed it repeatedly,
and breathed his last. Such was the sad end of one of the greatest heroes of his age;[12] a
man guilty of many crimes, but also unjustly accused of many of which he was innocent. His
acts were consistent with the spirit of his age, and were influenced by the frightful circumstances
in which he was placed. In short, there can be little doubt that Pizarro was "better than his
fame."

The west side of the Plaza Mayor is occupied by the Cabildo, or senate-house (formerly called
the Casa Consistorial), together with the city jail, and a row of houses of no very handsome
appearance. The south side is filled by a range of private dwelling-houses, with balconies
looking to the Plaza. The houses, both on the west and south sides of the square, are built
above a colonnade, in which there are numerous shops.

In the middle of the Plaza is a magnificent bronze fountain with three basins. From the middle
basin rises a pillar, surmounted by a figure of Fame spouting the water from her trumpet. In
the other two basins the water is ejected from the mouths of four lions. The pillar and figures
for this triple fountain were cast in the year 1650, by the able artist Antonio Rivas, by order
of the then reigning viceroy, Count de Salvatierra. Besides this principal fountain, there
are several smaller ones, from which the public are permitted to supply themselves with water.

The second large public square in Lima is the Plaza de la Inquisicion, which, since the war
of independence, has received the name of the Square of Independence (Plazuela de la Independencia).
It is of trapezi-form, widening in the eastern part, and is certainly no ornament to the town,
for it is always in a very dirty condition. Being the public market-place, it presents a very
busy aspect during the fore part of the day. Two buildings on this Plazuela attract attention,
viz.--the Palace of the Inquisition and the University. There are now but few remaining traces
of the internal arrangements of the fearful tribunal; for, on the suppression of the Inquisition
by the Cortes, the enraged populace forced their way into the building, where they gutted the
rooms, and destroyed the furniture. Lima was the seat of spiritual jurisdiction for the whole
western coast of South America; and the rigor of its despotism was not far short of that of
the Inquisition of Madrid. Every year vast numbers of persons convicted or suspected of crimes
were brought from all the intervening points between Chiloe and Columbia to the Tribunal of
the Inquisition, and most of them were doomed to the most dreadful punishments. Autos da fe
were frequently held in Lima, and cases of other kinds of martyrdom were exceedingly numerous.
The lists, which have been only partially preserved, present melancholy results. One part of
the Palace of the Inquisition is now converted into a store-house for provisions, and the other
part is used as a prison.

The University of Lima was once the most important seat of education in South America. It owes
its origin to a decree of the emperor Charles V., issued at the solicitation of the dominican
monk Maestro Fray Tomas de San Martin. The decree was dated the 12th of May, 1551, but it did
not reach Lima until two years after that time. A papal bull of Pius V. confirmed the imperial
decree, and conferred on the institution the same privileges as those enjoyed by the Spanish
university of Salamanca. The Lima university was originally established in the convent of Santo
Domingo, but after the lapse of three years it was removed to the building now occupied by
San Marcel, and in 1576 it was installed in the site it now occupies. It received the name
of Real y Pontificia Universidad de San Marcos. In the year 1572 the first lay rector was elected
in the person of Gaspar Menendez, a doctor of medicine.

The building is situated on the east side of the Plaza de la Independencia, next to the hospital
of la Caridad. The façade is not handsome, but is remarkable for a style not belonging to the
age in which it was erected. The building is entered by a lofty door, opening into a spacious
quadrangular court, along the four sides of which there are pillared corridors. On the walls
of these corridors the different branches of science are allegorically represented in fresco
paintings, and beneath these paintings are inscribed quotations from ancient classic authors.
The lecture rooms open into the corridors which run round the court. Facing the entrance door,
in the left angle of the court, are great double doors opening into the Aula, which is spacious,
and has rather an imposing aspect. In the middle of the wall, on the right-hand side, stands
the rector's chair in a sort of niche, surmounted by a canopy. On either side of this chair
are ranged the seats of the professors, and the members of faculties. Opposite to the rector's
seat, on the left-hand side of the Aula, is an elevated chair occupied by the president, when
academic prizes are distributed. Below it is an arm-chair for the candidate. On each side of
the president's seat are several rows of benches, for the members of the university and visitors.
Over the entrance door there is a gallery to which the public are admitted, and which, on the
occasions when prizes are distributed, is usually occupied by ladies. On the walls of the Aula
are hung portraits of celebrated learned men.

The National Library, situated near the convent of San Pedro, was founded by a decree, dated
the 28th of August, 1821. The books belonging to the university of San Marcos formed the nucleus
of the National Library. To them were added the libraries of several of the monasteries, some
sequestrated works, and the collections of a few private individuals. Of these latter, the
most considerable was the collection of General San Martin, and a library of 7772 volumes bequeathed,
together with a legacy of a thousand dollars, by Don Miguel de la Fuente y Pacheco. In November,
1841, the National Library of Peru contained 26,344 printed volumes, 432 manuscripts, and a
small collection of maps and copperplate engravings. It is particularly rich in old works on
religious and historical subjects. The books relating to the Conquest, and to the early period
of the Spanish dominion, form in themselves a complete historical series. Of modern works there
are but few. The pecuniary support of the establishment is very inconsiderable. The government
exacts from it the import duty, three per cent., on European books, making an average annual
sum of 400 dollars. In addition to this the salaries of the librarians amount annually to 2794
dollars. The library is open to the public every day (Friday and Sunday excepted) from eight
in the morning till one in the afternoon, and from four in the afternoon till six in the evening.

In the left wing of the same building is the museum, containing a collection of objects of
natural history, antiquities, and other curiosities. This collection was first formed in the
year 1826, in some of the spare rooms of the palace of the Inquisition, and was afterwards
removed from one place to another, until at length the government allotted to the purpose the
two fine apartments in the building above mentioned. As yet the establishment is quite in its
infancy. It contains nothing of scientific value, and but for the series of historical portraits
already described, it would differ but little from the collections of curiosities frequently
formed by amateurs, in which all sorts of heterogeneous objects are jumbled together. The museum
of Lima bids fair to remain for some time to come on the footing on which it was when I saw
it, for the establishment has no funds, save a monthly allowance of thirty-two dollars, and
out of that scanty pittance the expense of fitting up the rooms, the glass cases, &c., has
yet to be defrayed. The museum is open to the public four days in the week.

Two other apartments in the same building are set aside for the Academy of Design (Academia
de Debujo). On three evenings every week pupils are admitted to this academy to receive gratuitous
instruction in drawing. The number of the pupils amounts to between 80 and 100; but there is
convenient room for 200. The collection of models and drawing copies for the use of the students
is but indifferent.

The mint is situated in the vicinity of the Plazuela de la Independencia. It was founded in
Lima in the year 1565; in 1572 transferred to Potosi, and in 1683 removed back to Lima. For
the space of seventy years this establishment was in the hands of private individuals; but
in the year 1753 the Spanish government took the management of it, and erected the building
in which it is still located. It is a large and handsome structure, but very defective in its
internal arrangement. Until the year 1817 the machinery for casting was worked by mules, ninety-two
of those animals being employed daily. Subsequently, under the direction of an Englishman,
water-power was introduced, by which expense was diminished and time saved. A few years ago
a French merchant made an arrangement with the government for the use of a complex machine,
which he proposed to bring from Europe. The machine arrived, but by an unlucky fatality it
proved perfectly useless. For the space of four years repeated attempts were made to work it,
but in vain; it fulfilled none of the required conditions. Its faults are manifold, and it
reflects but little credit on the person by whom it was contrived. It has cost no less than
250,000 dollars, and has never been of the least use.

In the mint of Lima there are annually cast from two to two and a half millions of dollars,
which yield a profit of from 140,000 to 180,000 dollars, out of which are paid the salaries
of the persons employed. Under the Spanish government these salaries amounted annually to 48,906
dollars; now they make, together with other customary outlays, the sum of 85,105 dollars.

The value of a mark of silver in the mint is 8 dollars 4 reales; that of a mark of gold is
144 dollars 4 reales. The standard worth of the gold is 21 carats; that of the silver 20 grains.

Next to the arena for bull-fights, situated in the Plaza firme del Acho, the theatre is the
principal place of public amusement in Lima. The first theatre, erected in the year 1602, was
situated near the convent of San Augustin, in the street which still bears the name of "Comedia
vieja." It was destroyed in the earthquake of 1630, and rebuilt on the same site. In 1662 it
was pulled down to make room for a new street, and afterwards the present building was erected.
Its external appearance is very ugly and the interior is not much better. Before the orchestra
there are some commodious inclosed seats or stalls. The boxes, which are completely separated
one from another by partitions, are narrow but deep: the smaller ones are capable of containing
eight persons, and the larger ones twelve. In the centre of the first tier of boxes, and fronting
the stage, is the government box, which occupies the space of two of the others. It contains
seats for the prefect, the sub-prefect, and the members of the Cabildo. The president's box
is likewise on the first tier, and on the left of the stage. Adjoining it there is a small
cabinet, closed on the side next the pit by a wooden railing. Into this cabinet the president
retires between the acts of the performance. The stage is small, and the scenery very indifferent.

The performances are for the most part wretched, both as regards the merit of the pieces and
the talent of the actors. Nothing can be in worse taste than the little farces called saynetes,
which, according to Spanish custom, always close the performances, whether the principal piece
be a tragedy or a comedy. Common-place intrigues form the subjects of these saynetes, and their
dialogue consists of vulgar jokes. They are altogether calculated to banish any gratifying
impression which might by possibility be produced by the principal piece.

For some years past a company of Italians, settled in Lima, have given operatic performances
on a small scale. One of them, Signora Pantanelli, is an excellent singer, and would be heard
with pleasure even in Europe. Some other members of the company have middling talents, but
the rest are decidedly bad. The operas performed are Giulietta y Romeo, Parisina, Lucia di
Lammermuir, Marino Faliero, La Sonnambula, and Il Barbiere di Seviglia: these, together with
a mutilated Norma, and a much curtailed Semiramide, form almost the whole repertory. Want of
stage room is an obstacle to the representation of operas demanding grand scenery and machinery.
The costumes are for the most part exceedingly elegant, though seldom historically correct.
The orchestra is defective, and ought to be much improved, to give satisfaction to a public
passionately fond of music.

But if the inhabitants of Lima are great lovers of music, dancing has no less powerful attractions
for them. Though the time is gone, when the dress of any opera-dancer may be expected to reach
below the knee, yet the drapery of a Limanese Terpsichore appears to have attained even an
ultra degree of curtailment. The representation of ballets, properly so called, is not attempted;
but the Bolero, the Fandango, the Cachucha, and Don Mateo, are favorite and often repeated
performances.

During the long intervals between the acts, smoking is permitted in the pit and in the outer
court of the theatre. There is also a plentiful supply of very bad and very dear refreshments.

An intolerable annoyance experienced in visiting the theatre at Lima is caused by the swarms
of fleas which infest every part of the house, but most especially the boxes. Unfortunately,
this nuisance is irremediable, and the visitor must be blessed with a large amount of endurance
who can patiently sit out a whole evening's entertainments.

Not far from the theatre is situated the circus for cock-fighting (Coliseo de gallos), where
fights (peleas) take place daily. The Coliseo is a large amphitheatre, with an arena in the
middle. The game-cocks trained for this sport have the spur removed from the right foot and
in its stead is substituted a small sharp steel blade, curved and shaped like a scythe. One
or other of the animals is frequently killed at the first spring; and when that is not the
case they continue fighting until they die of wounds and exhaustion. It is a cruel sport, and
a worthy pendant to bull-fighting. The first Coliseo was erected in 1762, by Don Juan Garrial.
The present building, in the Plazuela de Santa Catalina, is a very handsome structure, and
Lima may fairly boast of possessing the finest circus for cock-fighting in all the world.

In the same square with the Coliseo de gallos is the tennis-court, a spacious area, surrounded
by high walls. It is not now so much resorted to as formerly, for the Creoles are not so fond
of tennis as the Spaniards.

A beautiful stone bridge unites the town with the suburb of San Lazaro. This bridge was built
in the years 1638-1640, when the Marquis de Montes Claros was viceroy of Peru. The plan was
designed by Fray Geronimo Villegas, an Augustine monk. It is 530 feet long, and has six arches
rising thirty-seven feet above the surface of the water. The foundation of the piers is composed
of square blocks of stone, the piers themselves are of brick, and the parapet of cemented stone
work. The erection of this bridge cost 400,000 dollars. A sufficient proof of its strength
and solidity is the fact that it survived the earthquakes of 1687 and 1746, which shattered
all other parts of Lima. In the earthquake of 1746 the first arch, on which stood an equestrian
statue of Philip V., was destroyed, but it is now restored. It has on one side two towers,
with a dial in the middle.

The city of Lima, with the exception of a portion of the north side, and the suburb of San
Lazaro, is surrounded by a wall built of brick. This wall was constructed in the year 1585,
when the Duque de la Plata was viceroy. It is the work of a Fleming, named Pedro Ramon. This
wall is between eighteen and twenty feet high. Its breadth at the base is from ten to twelve
feet, and at the top nine feet. It does not therefore afford sufficient space for mounting
large guns. Along the whole extent of the wall there are thirty-four bastions. In the year
1807, this wall, which had fallen into a very ruinous condition, was repaired by order of the
viceroy Abascal, and put into a condition to be mounted with artillery. On each side commodious
pathways were made, and along the inner side powder magazines were constructed. At present
these fortifications are in a state of complete dilapidation. The paths, which are obstructed
by rubbish, are almost impassable, and the powder magazines are destroyed. The city wall of
Lima has nine gates (Portadas). Of these, six only are now open, viz., the Portadas of Maravillas,
Barbones, Cocharcas, Guadelupe, Juan Simon, and Callao; the three others, the Portadas of Martinete,
Monserrat, and Santa Catalina, are walled up. At every one of the open gates there are stationed
custom-house guards, whose chief duty consists in preventing the smuggled introduction of unstamped
silver (plata de piña). In the direction of the suburb of San Lazaro, the city cannot be closed,
as the wall does not extend to that part. Between San Lazaro, and the high road to Cero de
Pasco, is the Portada de Guias; this, however, is not properly a gate, but a small custom-house.
In this direction it is easy to gain entrance to the city from the river, and consequently
it is here that most of the contraband silver, brought from the mountains, is smuggled.

Among the fortifications of Lima may be included the pretty little castle of Santa Catalina,
situated at the eastern end of the city, between the Portada de Cocharcas and the Portada de
Guadelupe, at the distance of about two hundred yards from the city wall. It is surrounded
by rather high walls, and is flanked by two bastions. The interior of this citadel is very
well arranged, and is kept much cleaner than such places usually are in Peru. It contains stores
of arms and barracks for the artillery. The largest barracks in Lima are those of the infantry,
Quartel de Infanteria, in the Colegio. They are remarkable for want of cleanliness, and like
most of the public buildings in this interesting city, going fast to decay.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: The city of Lima was founded by Don Francisco Pizarro on the 6th of January, 1534.
As it was the day of the Epiphany, Lima received the title of Ciudad de los Reyes (City of
the Kings). Historical records vary respecting the day and the year of the foundation of Lima;
but I have reason to believe that the date I have mentioned above is perfectly correct.]

[Footnote 6: The Vara Castellana is equal to 33 inches English measure.]

[Footnote 7: The females who retire to these establishments are called Beatas (Bigots). The
term Beaterio signifies a house for Bigots.--T.]

[Footnote 8: According to some accounts this establishment was instituted in 1654, by Mateo
Pastor de Velasco, a native of Portollano in Spain.]

[Footnote 9: In these shops any one may purchase for a trifle one of the most deadly poisons
(Strichnos Ignatia, L.). It is made up into what are called Pepitas de Cabalonga. It is used
in Lima for poisoning dogs.]

[Footnote 10: This highly valuable and interesting collection of portraits is now removed from
the palace to the museum. It is curious to mark the progressive changes of costume, and to
observe the various physiognomies, especially if we reflect on the history of the men whose
traits denote such striking differences of character. Almost all these portraits are distinguished
by an air of tranquil gravity which in some is combined with true kingly dignity, and in others
with an expression of fierceness. The handsomest head of the whole series is decidedly that
of Francisco Pizarro. His features bear the stamp of manly energy, and his whole countenance
is characterized by courage and candor. The nose has the prominent Arabic form, and the forehead
is high and expanded. The thick beard, covering the mouth and chin, gives a gloomy and resolute
character to the face.

Proceeding from the shell to the kernel, we will now take a glance at the inhabitants of the
capital of Peru: first, surveying the native in his fatherland, and next, the foreign settler
in his adopted country.

The population of Lima has at various periods undergone remarkable fluctuations. In the year
1764 the number of the inhabitants was stated to be 54,000; in 1810, 87,000; in 1826, 70,000;
in 1836, 54,600; and in 1842, 53,000. Of most of these estimates I entertain some degree of
distrust, as they are merely founded on general calculations, and are not the results of careful
numbering. Certain it is, however, that the population of Lima has very considerably decreased
since the declaration of independence. This is sufficiently proved by the fact that several
parts of the city are now totally uninhabited: the houses falling to decay, and the gardens
lying waste.

The cause of this diminished population is easily explained by the physical and political condition
of the country. Earthquakes have, at various times, buried thousands of people beneath the
ruins of their own dwellings; the war of independence was attended by vast sacrifices of life;
banishment and voluntary emigration have removed from Lima the families of some of the principal
citizens; and epidemic disease, the natural consequence of defective police regulations, has
swept away countless multitudes of the inhabitants. The number of new settlers is very inconsiderable;
and for several past years the number of deaths has nearly doubled that of the births. There
appears no reason to doubt that this decrease of population will continue; because, as will
presently be seen, the causes to which it is assignable cannot be checked, inasmuch as they
are intimately blended with the character of the nation. Most of these causes operate not only
in the capital, but over the whole country; indeed, in the latter their influence is in some
instances much greater; for example, in the interior of Peru the loss of life attendant on
the war was relatively much greater than in Lima. This favored country, which extends from
the 3d to the 22d degree of south latitude, and which contained at the time of its conquest
by the Spaniards an immense population, though its amount is not known with numerical exactitude,
now counts only 1,400,000 inhabitants.

In the tax registers, drawn up during the protectorate of Santa Cruz, in 1836, the number of
the inhabitants of Lima is represented as follows:--

                                             Male.    Female.   Total.

  1. White Creoles (being the
       descendants of foreigners,
       but chiefly of Spaniards)             9,423    10,170    19,593

  2. Indians                                 2,561     2,731     5,292

  3. People of Color (mixed races)          11,771    12,355    24,126

  4. Slaves                                  2,186     3,606     4,792

  5. Ecclesiastics (Lay and Monastic)          475       350       825
                                            ------    ------    ------
       In all                               26,416    29,212    54,628

From the above it appears that in every class (No. 5 excepted) there is a preponderance of
females; and that on the whole population of 54,628 individuals there is a surplus of 2796
women. About one in every sixty-six individuals belongs to the priesthood.

Possibly in no other place in the world is there so much variety of complexion and physiognomy
as in Lima. From the delicately fair creole daughter of European parents, to the jet black
Congo negro, people of every gradation of color are seen living in intimate relation one with
another. The two extreme classes--the whites and blacks--are as distinct in character as in
color, and of either of those it is no difficult task to give an accurate portraiture. But
it is different with the mixed races. To define their characteristics correctly would be impossible,
for their minds partake of the mixture of their blood. As a general rule, it may fairly be
said that they unite in themselves all the faults, without any of the virtues, of their progenitors.
Here, as well as in the following delineations of the different races, I wish my observations
to be understood only in a general sense. I have met with some honorable exceptions; though,
unfortunately, they were mere solitary luminaries, whose transient light has been speedily
obscured by the surrounding darkness.

The white Creoles, who, with very few exceptions, are the descendants of Spaniards, constitute
somewhat less than a third part of the population of Lima. They are slender in figure and of
middling height. Their features are strongly marked, their complexions fair and pale, and their
hair is of the darkest black. The men are feeble and look prematurely old. Their countenances,
though not devoid of dignity, have a sort of sensual expression. They are effeminate, and disinclined
to any kind of active exertion. If they ride the distance of ten miles, they think they have
performed a feat of heroism worthy to be recorded in the state archives. If the white Creoles
are inferior to the Spaniards in physical organization, they are no less beneath them in qualities
of mind. They shrink from anything that demands intellectual exertion. In short, they are sworn
enemies to business of every kind, and those who are obliged to work for their own support,
make choice of some occupation which, like that of a shopman, affords them ample time to smoke
cigars and to gossip with their neighbors. The richer classes give themselves up wholly to
idleness. They walk about and visit their acquaintances, or they lounge in shops or at the
corners of streets, and in that manner they often amuse themselves for half a day. Those who
are owners of plantations occasionally ride through them to receive reports from their mayordomos.
Their afternoons are usually spent in the Coliseo de gallos, in the coffee-houses, or at the
gaming-table. The white Creoles are as passionately fond of gaming as the Spaniards, and sums
equal to those staked at the gaming-tables of Mexico and the Havannah are daily lost and won
in Lima. Though games of hazard are prohibited, yet they are very publicly played, and it is
only now and then that the police enforce the regulations of the law by the seizure of a bank.

Gaming in Lima is carried on very quietly, and the most determined gamblers do not show themselves
very much excited either by losses or winnings. The discovery of false dice, however, creates
bitter feelings of animosity, which not unfrequently lead to assassination. Of this I knew
several instances when I was in the interior of the country.

The intellectual culture of the white Creole of Lima is exceedingly defective. He is not wanting
in talent; but an imperfect system of education affords him no opportunity for the development
of his faculties, and innate indolence is a bar to his self-improvement by study. He seldom
rises above the level of every-day life, and is ignorant of everything beyond the boundary
of the city, or, at all events, of the province in which he was born. I have often been amazed
at the monstrous ignorance of so-called educated Peruvians, respecting the situation, the extent,
the physical formation, and the productions of their native country.

On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that Lima has been the birthplace of several white
Creoles, whose talents and learning have honorably distinguished them from the rest of their
countrymen. For example, Don Tomas de Salazar, author of the "Interpretaciones de los Leyes
de Indias."[13] Don Miguel Nuñez de Rojas, the learned Judge of Confiscations in the Spanish
war of succession, and Don Alonzo Conde de San Donas, who in the reign of Philip IV. was Spanish
Ambassador at the Court of France. Among those eminent in literature may be named Don Pedro
de la Reyna Maldonado, and the poet Don Diego Martinez de Rivera, of whom Cervantes in his
"Galatea" says--

    Su divina ingenio ha producido
    En Arequipa eterna Primavera.[14]

Several monks distinguished for learning have been white Creoles, and an eminent individual
of that race was Don Hipolito Unanue, the author of the "Guide to Peru," and "Observations
on the Climate of Lima, and its Influence on organized Beings, especially Man;"[15] a Treatise
on the Cocoa-tree, &c. In more recent times, Don Mariano Eduardo de Rivero has zealously devoted
himself to the study of natural history and antiquities.

But in spite of his faults, the Lima Creole has his good qualities. He is an enemy to strong
drinks. When he takes wine it is usually of some sweet kind, and of that he partakes very sparingly.
A white Creole in a state of intoxication would, indeed, be a rare sight. Not so in the interior
of the country, where the whites are remarkable for intemperate drinking.

Far superior to the men, both physically and intellectually, are the women of Lima. Nature
has lavishly endowed them with many of her choicest gifts. In figure they are usually slender
and rather tall, and they are especially remarkable for small, elegantly formed feet. Their
fair faces, from which the glowing breath of the tropics banishes every trace of bloom, are
animated by large, bright, dark eyes. Their features are pleasing--the nose being well formed,
though in general not small--the mouth invariably adorned with two rows of brilliant white
teeth,[16] and their long black hair, arranged in plaits, falls gracefully over the bosom and
shoulders. Add to all this a captivating grace of manner and deportment, joined to an exceeding
degree of gentleness and amiability, and it will be readily admitted that the Limena is a noble
specimen of female loveliness.

At home, especially in the summer season, the ladies of Lima dress lightly and even negligently.
For visiting, or going to the theatres, they adopt the French fashion. When walking in the
streets, attending church, joining religious processions, &c., they appear in a very singular
costume, peculiar to Lima, and consisting of two garments called the Saya and the Manto. Of
the saya there are two kinds. The one called the Saya ajustada, was formerly in general use,
but is now seldom seen. It consists of a petticoat, or skirt of thick stiff silk, plaited at
top and bottom, in small fluted folds, drawn very close together at the waist and widening
towards the ankles, beneath which the saya does not descend. It is tight to the form, the outline
of which it perfectly displays, and its closeness to the limbs naturally impedes rapid movement.
When wearing the Saya ajustada, the ladies find it no very easy task to kneel down at church,
and at the termination of every genuflexion, they are obliged to twist and twirl about for
a considerable time before they can again stand on their feet.[17]

The other description of saya is called the Saya culeça, or the Saya desplegada. It is plaited
close at the waist, and from thence downwards it stands out like a hooped petticoat. This sort
of saya is made by first being plaited both at top and bottom like the Saya ajustada; but,
afterwards, the lower plaits are undone to form the Saya desplegada. The saya is always made
of some dark-colored silk, black, green, blue, or cinnamon color.

The Manto is a veil of thick black silk fastened by a band at the back of the waist, where
it joins the saya. From thence it is brought over the shoulders and head, and drawn over the
face so closely that only a small triangular space, sufficient for one eye to peep through,
is left uncovered. A rich shawl thrown over the shoulders conceals the whole of the under garment,
except the sleeves. One of the small, neatly-gloved hands, confines the folds of the manto,
whilst the other holds a richly embroidered pocket-handkerchief.

At first sight this costume has a very singular effect, and it is long before the eye of a
foreigner becomes reconciled to it. The narrow saya is by no means graceful; the wide saya,
on the other hand, is very becoming, and sets off to great advantage a good figure and elegant
deportment. When I first arrived in Lima and saw the ladies closely muffled up in their mantos,
and carrying embroidered cambric handkerchiefs and nosegays in their hands, it struck me that
the nuns enjoyed greater freedom in that country than in any other part of the world. After
vespers, that is to say half-past seven in the evening, the police regulations prohibit any
woman from appearing in the streets dressed in the saya.

As this garment may be worn over a dress of the ordinary kind, it is found to be very convenient,
inasmuch as it saves the trouble of a careful toilette. During short visits the ladies do not
take off the saya; but when making long visits they usually lay it aside.

The Saya y Manto are found to be very useful auxiliaries in the numerous intrigues in which
the Limeñas frequently engage.

A Tapada[18] indulges in a vast deal of freedom when in the streets, and scruples not to make
satirical observations on anybody or anything that strikes her as strange or ludicrous. The
veil, or manto, is sacred, and should a man attempt to remove it by force, he would run the
risk of being severely handled by the populace.

In intrigues of gallantry the Saya y Manto play a conspicuous part. A lady has been known to
arrange an assignation with a gentleman in the street, whilst her husband, standing at the
distance of a few yards and conversing with a friend on some matter of business, has little
suspected that the Tapada whose graceful figure he admired, was his own faithful better-half.
It frequently happens that Doña Mariquita obliges Doña Merceditas, or Doña Panchita, with the
loan of her saya, for the purpose of hood-winking the Argus-eyes of a jealous husband;--the
lady being well convinced that her kind friends will render her the like service in similar
circumstances. Sometimes a lady may be seen in an old tattered saya, such as scarcely the poorest
female might be expected to wear; but the costly shawl, the worked pocket-handkerchief, the
silk stockings, and satin shoes, betray the rank of the Tapada, and plainly denote that she
has sallied forth on an adventure. It is difficult, nay almost impossible, to recognize a lady
thus muffled up. The one eye alone visible, is, as may be supposed, a very uncertain token
of identity, and the figure and walk may be easily disguised.

It will readily be supposed that these concealments sometimes occasion mortifying mistakes.
On beholding a tall slender figure whose symmetrical contour is discernible even through the
unwieldy saya, and a bright dark eye beaming beneath the folds of the manto, one may be induced
to imagine that the charms of a Hebe are concealed beneath the disfiguring garb. But how great
is the disappointment when an accidental movement of the manto discloses the wide mouth of
an ugly mulatta grinning from ear to ear.

Most foreigners who marry Limeñas stipulate that from the time of betrothal, their wives shall
no longer wear the saya y manto. The condition is agreed to; but how far it is faithfully observed
the husbands best know. Many, no doubt, lull themselves in the confidence of their wishes being
implicitly obeyed; but female ingenuity readily devises opportunities for deception. The women
of Lima never willingly renounce the saya y manto, for it is inseparably associated with customs
to which they are, heart and soul, devoted.

If we follow the Limeña (the white Creole, be it understood) into the retirement of domestic
life, we find that she is an affectionate mother, but not a very clever housekeeper. Every
lady has at her command a great many more domestics than are necessary: some are servants,
but most of them slaves. The establishment usually consists of a cook, a nurse-maid, one or
two house-maids, a needle-woman, several men-servants, and a little negro or Indian, whose
chief business is to carry a carpet behind his mistress when she goes to church. These servants
all do as they please, and the lady of the house concerns herself very little about the indolence
which her want of vigilance encourages. She rises at a late hour, and having dressed herself
and decorated her hair with sprigs of jasmine and orange blossom, she takes her breakfast.
That meal being ended, she goes out to make visits. During the sultry hours of mid-day she
reposes, either by swinging in a hammock or reclining on a sofa, and meanwhile smokes a cigar.
After dinner she again makes visits, and the evening is spent in the theatre, on the plaza,
or on the bridge. Some few ladies employ themselves in needle-work, in which they are often
most accomplished adepts; they especially excel in embroidery and fancy work; but they never
pursue these employments before company.

The ladies of Lima are passionately fond of music. Most of them play the piano-forte or the
guitar, and also sing; but for want of good instruction neither their playing nor their singing
is above mediocrity. Smoking is pretty general among females, at least those of mature age;
but they indulge in this practice only in their own apartments. Of late years the custom of
smoking has been on the decline in Lima, in proportion as it has been increased on the continent
of the old world. Though snuff-taking is prohibited in the convents, yet the nuns practise
it to a great extent. They use an exceedingly fine kind of red snuff, which has the effect
of closing the breathing passage through the nostrils, and of producing a peculiar nasal tone
of voice.

With the ladies of Lima, vanity and the love of dress appear to have reached their climax.
To this passion for personal adornment they sacrifice everything. Formerly, when none but real
pearls and diamonds were worn, many a lady was known to have ruined her husband by the purchase
of those costly articles; now, however, thanks to French mock jewelry, they are enabled to
bedeck themselves in glittering ornaments at trivial expense. Another of their passions is
a fondness for perfumes. They are continually besprinkling themselves with eau de Cologne,
esprit de Lavande, agua rica, or mistura. The latter is a fragrant yellow-colored water, prepared
from gillyflower, jasmine, and flor de mistela (Talinum umbellatum). They perfume their apartments
daily with Sahumerios (pastiles). When the lady of the house wishes to show particular attention
to her visitors, she offers them perfumed water, dropping it into the bosoms of the ladies,
and on the pocket-handkerchiefs of the gentlemen. Considering their free use of perfumes, it
is not surprising that the fair Limeñas should be constantly complaining of headache, vertigo,
and other nervous ailments, or, to use their own phrase (los nervios).

Above all things the Limeñas pride themselves in the excessive smallness of their feet. Whether
walking, standing, sitting, swinging in the hammock, or reclining on the sofa, the grand object
invariably is to display to advantage the tiny foot. To praise her virtue, her intelligence,
her wit, or even her beauty, would be less complimentary to a Limeña than to admire the elegance
of her feet. All possible care is taken to preserve the small form of the foot, and the Lima
ladies avoid everything that may tend to spread or enlarge it. Their shoes are usually made
of embroidered velvet or satin, or of very fine kid, and are so exceedingly small, that they
cannot be drawn on and off without difficulty. It is usual to have two new pairs every week,
and the expense of a lady's shoes not unfrequently amounts to two hundred dollars per annum.
A large foot is a thing held in horror by the Limeñas: they call it una pataza inglesa (an
English paw). I once heard some Lima ladies extolling in high terms the beauty of a fair European;
but all their praises ended with the words:--"Pero que pie, valgame Dios! parece una lancha."
(But what a foot, good Heaven! It is like a great boat.) Yet the feet of the lady alluded to
would not, in Europe, have been thought by any means large.

Gourmanderie is one of the evil habits of the female inhabitants of Lima. Between meals they
are continually eating sweetmeats and a variety of things. At one moment they order tamal,[19]
next omitas,[20] then pan de chancay (a sweet sort of bread), and biscuits, then masamorita
morada,[21] or frijoles coladas,[22] &c.; and yet dinner is partaken with as hearty an appetite
as though none of these interludes had been introduced. Can it be matter of surprise that the
good ladies are constantly complaining of indigestion and mal de estomago?

In the interior of the houses cleanliness does not extend beyond those apartments which are
open to visitors, namely, the sala and the cuadro. The other rooms of the house frequently
bear more resemblance to a stable than a human habitation, and their condition reflects little
credit on the domestic habits of the female inmates. But even this is typical of the national
character,--a great outward show and little inward worth.

At first a stranger is struck with the singularity of the names of many of the women of Lima.
A child receives the name of the saint or of the festival whose celebration falls on the day
of its birth. Those who happen to come into the world on the days on which the Romish Church
celebrates the several manifestations of the Virgin receive the most extraordinary names. For
example, a child born on the anniversary day of the manifestation to St. Francis on the Snow
Mountain, is named Nièves (snow). Pilar (fountain-basin) is another strange name, conferred
in honor of the manifestation of the Virgin at the Fountains in Saragossa. Then there are Conceptions,
Natividads, and Asuncions, without number. A girl born on Candlemas-day is named Candelaria,
and one born on the first day of the year receives the name of Jesus. The singular effect of
these names is heightened by the Spanish custom of using diminutives, formed by adding to the
name the particle ito or ita, the former being the masculine, the latter the feminine. It may
be readily imagined that a foreigner is not a little startled on hearing a young lady called
Doña Jesusita. In some names the diminutive takes a form totally different from the full name;
as, for example, Panchita for Francisca, Pepita for Josefa, Conchita for Concepcion. A married
woman does not take the family name of her husband, but retains her own, adding to it her husband's
name preceded by the particle de, as, for example, Doña Maria Juana Rodriguez de Salazar.

On attaining a certain age, the Limeñas totally alter their habits of life. When their beauty
fades, and they cease to be the objects of compliment and flattery; or when weary of an idle,
luxurious, and, in too many instances, a no very virtuous life, they betake themselves to piety,
and become Beatas.[23] The Limeña who thus renounces the vanities of the world attends church
two or three times every day, confesses at least once every week, retires during Lent to a
house of penitence; fasts, prays, and receives the visits of her confessor, to whom she sends
presents of sweetmeats;--and should the holy man, as is usually the case, prefer riding to
walking, she shows her piety by giving him the use of her Calesa to convey him from place to place.

The women of Lima are gifted by nature with extraordinary natural talent, though unfortunately
it is rarely cultivated. They possess shrewd and penetrating intelligence, clear judgment,
and in general very just views on the ordinary affairs of life. Like the women of the southern
provinces of Spain, they are remarkable for quickness and smartness of repartee, and in a wordy
contest a Limeña is sure to come off triumphant. They have a great deal of decision of character,
and a degree of courage which does not usually fall to the lot of the female sex. In these
respects they are infinitely superior to the timid, spiritless men. In the various political
revolutions of the country, the women have often taken an active, and, in some instances, a
more decided part than the men.

The Indians in Lima form but a small portion of the population, being about 5000 in number.
Among them are as many emigrants as natives. Most of the former are from the mountainous districts,
and but few are from places on the coast. Their character is, of course, much modified by continual
intercourse with the whites; but I will endeavor to describe them as they show themselves in
their original purity, marking the distinctions observable between the Indio Costeño (the Coast
Indian), and the Indio Serrano (the mountain Indian). The Indians in Lima are active and industrious.
Many of them are shopkeepers, and by the integrity of their dealings they stand on a footing
of good credit with the great commercial houses. Those who are employed as servants are less
remarkable for industry and honesty. They are reserved and suspicious; qualities especially
observable when they have but recently emigrated into Lima. They combine personal vanity with
an inconceivable degree of dirtiness. Their intellectual faculties are far beneath those of
the white Creoles, of whom they stand in a degree of fear, which is not easily eradicated.

At a former period there existed in Lima a college exclusively for noble-born Indians; and
the eldest sons of the families descended from the Incas, when they wished to study, were received
at the expense of the State into the College of San Carlos; but since the declaration of independence,
all the privileges enjoyed by the Indians have been annulled.

The negroes in Lima form one-fifth part of the population. Their number amounts to upwards
of 10,000, of which 4800 are slaves. Though an article in the Charter of Independence declares
that "in Peru no person is born a slave," yet the National Congress has on various occasions
thought fit to deviate from this principle. In Huaura it was decreed that children born in
slavery shall be free on attaining the age of twenty-five, and the Congress of Huancayo prolonged
the period to fifty years. There are no new importations of negroes from Africa, for an article
in the Charter just mentioned sets forth that "every person who may be brought, as a slave,
from another country to Peru, is free from the moment when he sets foot on the soil of that
republic." Accordingly, if a Peruvian take his slave with him on a journey to Chile, and brings
him back again, the slave may, on his return, claim his freedom. The only exception to this
rule refers to runaway negroes, who, even after years of absence, may be reclaimed on their
return. The value of slaves is not so high in Peru as in the southern states of North America.
In Lima, the average price of a young, strong, and healthy negro is 400 dollars; the price
of a negress, especially a Negra de Chavra (capable of field work), is 100 dollars higher.
The value of those destined for domestic service depends on character and qualifications. A
negress who is a good cook or needlewoman, is of course worth more than a negro who is to be
employed as a water-carrier or a footman. In the plantations their value depends wholly on
health and strength.

The treatment of slaves in Lima, especially by the Creoles, is exceedingly mild, and generally
much on the same footing as the treatment of servants in Europe. It is seldom that a master
inflicts severe corporal chastisement on a slave. If the latter requires punishment, he is
sent into the Panaderia (the bakehouse) to knead the dough and bake the bread, which work they
perform under the supervision of a Mayordomo, who is usually a hard task-master. Owing to the
heat of the climate, working in the Panaderia is more feared by the slaves than any other kind
of punishment.

In Lima the special laws for the protection of slaves are more favorable to them than the similar
laws of any other slave country. The slaves bring their complaints before a particular judge,
whose business it is to protect them against ill-treatment. A slave is free whenever he can
pay the sum which his master demands for him,--which sum, in disputed cases, is fixed by legal
decision. The slave also possesses the right of selling himself to another master, and the
latter may pay the purchase-money to the former owner, who, however unwillingly, is obliged
to conclude the bargain. The negroes have ample opportunities for saving money. They are permitted,
during five or six hours of the day, to work for themselves; so that in the course of a few
years they may with ease save the sum requisite for purchasing their independence. But in general
they spend their earnings in mere idle enjoyments, and care but little about obtaining their
freedom. As slaves they are provided with lodging, food, and clothing, and they are nursed
in sickness; but as soon as they become free, they must supply all these wants for themselves;
an undertaking which their natural indolence renders them little inclined to. On the whole,
domestic negroes may be said to be willing slaves; it is possibly different with those employed
in the plantations, who are liable to harder work and harsher treatment. I knew an old negro,
who had hoarded up 6000 dollars, and yet did not purchase his own freedom, though he had paid
for the liberation of his children and his two sisters. He often observed to me, that he should
not be half so well off if he were free.

The negroes brought from Africa, who are called Bosales, are far better than the Creole negroes.
In physical strength they are inferior to the latter, and are less lively; yet they are patient,
and much more faithful and attached to their masters than the Creole negroes born in Peru.
The Bosales all have a certain degree of pride, but especially those who are of princely blood.
A gentleman of old Spain bought a young negro princess, who not without the greatest difficulty
could be brought to perform the duties of servitude. When she was directed to go to market,
she set her basket down on the ground, and signified that she had been accustomed to be served,
and not to serve. Some chastisement was resorted to, with the view of compelling her to do
the duty allotted to her; but in vain. Her pride and obstinacy remained unconquerable. Sometimes
she would sit for hours gloomily, with her eyes fixed on the ground, and muttering between
her teeth, in her broken Spanish, the words, "Yo clavita! yo clavita!"[24] Then suddenly springing
up, she would strike her head against the wall until she became almost senseless. As she showed
a fondness for the children of the family, she was relieved from household work, and became
the nursery-maid. In that way she discharged the duties which devolved on her with the most
touching affection and fidelity; but she never would do anything, however trivial, which she
considered to be menial service, and her master and mistress were reasonable enough not to
require it.

When the number of the African negroes in Lima was more considerable than it now is, the various
races kept together, and formed themselves into unions, called Cofradias. They used to meet
together at regular periods. At these meetings the negroes of princely descent were treated
with marks of respect which they could scarcely have received in their native home. Speeches
were delivered, and religious ceremonies performed; whilst music, singing, and dancing, revived
recollections of past happiness, and of the far-distant native land. These Cofradias were also
conducive to philanthropic ends; for when a slave had a hard master, the sum requisite for
purchasing his freedom was raised by a general subscription in the union to which he belonged.
Since the independence of Peru, and the consequent prohibition of the importation of negroes,
the Cofradias have declined, and have lost much of their original character. Creoles and free
negroes have now become members of them. The places in which these meetings are held are situated
in the suburb of San Lazaro. The walls of the rooms are painted with grotesque figures of negro
kings, elephants, camels, palm trees, &c.

In Lima, and indeed throughout the whole of Peru, the free negroes are a plague to society.
Too indolent to support themselves by laborious industry, they readily fall into any dishonest
means of getting money. Almost all the robbers who infest the roads on the coast of Peru are
free negroes. Dishonesty seems to be a part of their very nature; and moreover, all their tastes
and inclinations are coarse and sensual. Many warm defenders of the negroes excuse these qualities
by ascribing them to the want of education, the recollection of slavery, the spirit of revenge,
&c. But I here speak of free-born negroes, who are admitted into the houses of wealthy families,
who from their early childhood have received as good an education as falls to the share of
many of the white Creoles--who are treated with kindness and liberally remunerated, and yet
they do not differ from their half-savage brethren who are shut out from these advantages.
If the negro has learned to read and write, and thereby made some little advance in education,
he is transformed into a conceited coxcomb, who, instead of plundering travellers on the highway,
finds in city life a sphere for the indulgence of his evil propensities. What is the cause
of this incorrigible turpitude of the negroes? To answer this important question is not easy,
if we admit the principle that the negro is as capable of cultivation as the Caucasian; and
in support of it the names of some highly-educated Ethiopians may be cited. Those who are disposed
to maintain this principle, and who are at the same time intimately acquainted with the social
relations of the countries in which free negroes are numerous, may solve the problem. My opinion
is, that the negroes, in respect to capability for mental improvement, are far behind the Europeans,
and that, considered in the aggregate, they will not, even with the advantages of careful education,
attain a very high degree of cultivation; because the structure of the negro skull, on which
depends the development of the brain, approximates closely to the animal form. The imitative
faculty of the monkey is highly developed in the negro, who readily seizes anything merely
mechanical, whilst things demanding intelligence are beyond his reach. Sensuality is the impulse
which controls the thoughts, the acts, the whole existence of the negroes. To them freedom
can be only nominal; for if they conduct themselves well it is because they are compelled,
not because they are inclined to do so. Herein lie at once the cause of, and the apology for,
their bad character.

The negro women differ but little from the men, in their general characteristics. They are,
however, more active and industrious, and better tempered. As domestic servants they are superior
to the mixed races. They are much employed as nurses, and in those situations they discharge
their duties well. Their personal vanity is boundless, and every real they can save is spent
in dress and ornaments. It is amusing to see them, on festival days, parading about the streets,
dressed in white muslin gowns trimmed with lace, and short sleeves displaying their black arms.
Very short petticoats, seldom extending below the ankle, serve to exhibit the tawdry finery
of red silk stockings and light blue satin shoes. From their ears are suspended long gold drops,
and their uncovered necks are not unfrequently adorned with costly necklaces. A negress, who
was a slave belonging to a family of my acquaintance, possessed a necklace composed of fine
Panama pearls, worth several thousand dollars. The pure white of the pearls was wonderfully
heightened by the contrast of the jet-black skin of the wearer; and for this reason they were
more ornamental to the negress than they would have been to the fairest lady in Europe.

Having noticed the principal races, we will now consider the variegated mass of people of mixed
blood, who in Lima form a considerable portion of the population. Stevenson[25] gives a long
list of these mixed races, and specifies the proportionate degree, that is to say, how many
eighths or sixteenths of black, brown, or white color belong to each. But these data respecting
tint are fallacious, for, being founded solely on external appearance, they are liable to endless
modifications. Stevenson falls into the mistake of giving to the children of a negro father
and a white mother, the name of Zambos; whilst to the offspring of a white father and a black
mother, he gives the name of Mulattos. By a similar error, he terms the children of a white
man and a Cuarterona, Quinteros; and to those of a Cuarteron and a white woman, he gives the
designation Cuarterones. It is, however, an established rule, that the children bear the designation,
denoting the same degree of mixed blood, whatever may respectively be the colors of the parents.
Accordingly, the child of a negro and a white woman is, properly speaking, a Mulatto; just
the same as though the relations of race on the part of the parents were transposed. When a
man of mixed blood marries a woman darker than himself, and his children thereby become further
removed from the white tint, it is said to be un paso atras (a step backwards).

In Europe it is very common to attach to the term Creole, the idea of a particular complexion.
This is a mistake. The designation Creole properly belongs to all the natives of America born
of parents who have emigrated from the Old World, be those parents Europeans or Africans. There
are, therefore, white as well as black Creoles.[26]

The subjoined list shows the parentage of the different varieties of half-casts, and also the
proper designations of the latter:--

           PARENTS.                       CHILDREN.

  White Father and Negro Mother       Mulatto.
  White Father and Indian Mother      Mestizo.
  Indian Father and Negro Mother      Chino.
  White Father and Mulatta Mother     Cuarteron.
  White Father and Mestiza Mother     Creole (only distinguished from
                                        the White, by a pale-brownish
                                        complexion).
  White Father and China Mother       Chino-Blanco.
  White Father and Cuarterona Mother  Quintero.
  White Father and Quintera Mother    White.
  Negro Father and Mulatta Mother     Zambo-Negro.
  Negro Father and Mestiza Mother     Mulatto-Oscuro.
  Negro Father and China Mother       Zambo-Chino.
  Negro Father and Zamba Mother       Zambo-Negro (perfectly bl'k).
  Negro Father and Cuarterona or
    Quintera Mother                   Mulatto (rather dark).
  Indian Father and Mulatta Mother   Chino-Oscuro.
  Indian Father and Mestiza Mother    Mestizo-Claro (frequently very
                                        beautiful).
  Indian Father and China Mother      Chino-Cholo.
  Indian Father and Zamba Mother      Zambo-Claro.
  Indian Father and China-Chola
    Mother                            Indian (with rather short
                                        frizzy hair).
  Indian Father and Cuarterona or
    Quintera Mother                   Mestizo (rather brown).
  Mulatto Father and Zamba Mother     Zambo (a miserable race).
  Mulatto Father and Mestiza Mother   Chino (of rather clear
                                        complexion).
  Mulatto Father and China Mother     Chino (rather dark).

Besides the half-casts here enumerated, there are many others, not distinguished by particular
names, as they do not in color materially differ from those above specified. The best criterion
for determining the varieties is the hair of the women: this is far less deceiving than the
complexion, for the color of the skin is sometimes decidedly at variance with that characteristic
of the race. Some of the Mulatta females have complexions brilliantly fair, and features which,
for regularity, may vie with those of the most beautiful women of Europe; but they bear the
unmistakeable stamp of descent in the short woolly hair.

The white Creole women of Lima have a peculiar quickness in detecting a person of half-cast
at the very first glance; and to the less practised observer they communicate their discoveries
in this way, with an air of triumph; for they have the very pardonable weakness of priding
themselves in the purity of their European descent. Despite the republican constitution, there
prevails throughout Peru a strong pride of cast, which shows itself at every opportunity. In
quarrels, for example, the fairer antagonist always taunts the darker one about his descent.
By all the varieties, the white skin is envied, and no one thinks of disputing its superiority
of rank. The Indian looks with abhorrence on the Negro; the latter with scorn on the Indio.
The Mulatto fancies himself next to the European, and thinks that the little tinge of black
in his skin does not justify his being ranked lower than the Mestizo, who after all is only
an Indio bruto.[27] The Zambo laughs at them all, and says "if he himself is not worth much,
yet he is better than his parents." In short, each race finds a reason for thinking itself
better than another.

In the commencement of the present chapter I made the observation that the people of mixed
blood unite in themselves all the faults without any of the virtues of their progenitors. To
this general remark, however, the Mestizos form an honorable exception. They inherit many of
the good qualities both of the Whites and the Indians. They are mild and affectionate. Their
feelings are very excitable, and they readily perform an act of kindness or generosity on the
impulse of the moment--but they are irresolute and timid. They attach themselves affectionately
to the Whites; but they are not partial to the Indians, whom they regard with some degree of
contempt. In Lima their number is less considerable than in the interior of the country, where
whole villages are inhabited solely by Mestizos. In those places they style themselves Whites,
and hold themselves very much aloof from the Indians. One cannot pay them a better compliment
than to inquire whether they are Spaniards, a question which they always answer in the affirmative,
though their features are plainly impressed with the Indian stamp. The complexion of the Mestizos
is usually a clear brown; but in some individuals it has a very dark tinge. Their hair is sleek,
long, and very strong. The women frequently wear their hair in two long plaits descending nearly
to the knees. The men are strongly made, have marked features and but very little beard. In
Lima they are chiefly handicraftsmen and traders. Most of the hawkers (Mercachifles) in Lima
are Mestizos.

The Mulattos differ very widely from the Mestizos. In person they are less strongly made; but
in intellect they are superior to any of the half-casts. They possess a very great aptitude
for mechanical employments, great dexterity and a remarkable degree of imitative talent, which,
if well directed, might be brilliantly developed. They are exceedingly impressionable, and
all their feelings are readily exalted into passions. Indifferent to all out sensual enjoyments,
they indulge in the fleeting pleasure of the present moment, and are regardless of the future.
There is a certain class of Mulattos, who, in a psychological point of view, are very remarkable.
They are distinguished by the nick-name of Palanganas.[28] They are gifted with wonderful memory,
and after the lapse of years they will repeat, word for word, speeches or sermons which they
have heard only once. With this extraordinary power of memory, they combine a fertile fancy,
and a boundless share of self-confidence. Wherever there is anything to be seen or heard, the
Palanganas never fail to attend, and they repeat with the most ludicrous attitudes and gestures
all that they hear, be it a sermon in church, a speech in Congress, or an address delivered
at any public solemnity.

The Mulattos now study theology; for, since the establishment of independence, the Indian law,
which prohibited any person of mixed blood from entering the ecclesiastical state, is no longer
observed. Many have devoted themselves to medicine; and most of the physicians in Lima are
Mulattos; but they are remarkable only for their ignorance, as they receive neither theoretical
nor clinical instruction. Nevertheless, they enjoy the full confidence of the public, who rank
the ignorant native far above the educated foreigner. The business of a barber is one that
is much followed by the Mulattos of Lima. In that occupation they are quite in their element,
for they possess all the qualifications for which the members of that fraternity are distinguished
in all parts of the world.

Among the Mulatto females many are remarkably beautiful--though they are always wanting in
that oval form of the face which is the first condition of classic beauty. Their countenances
are generally round and broad, their features strongly marked, and their expression impassioned.
Their beauty soon fades; and as they advance in life the negro character of their features
becomes distinctly defined. Their hair, which does not grow beyond a finger's length, is jet
black and frizzy. They plait it very ingeniously in small tresses, frequently making more than
a hundred. Their complexions vary from white to dark-brown; but most of them are dark brunettes,
with large black eyes and pearl-white teeth.

Their vanity is quite equal to that of the Negresses, but it is combined with a certain degree
of taste, in which the latter are wanting. The Mulatto women are passionately fond of music,
singing and dancing. They play the guitar and have pleasing voices, but their singing is quite
uninstructed.

The Zambos are the most miserable class of half-casts. With them every vice seems to have attained
its utmost degree of development; and it may confidently be said that not one in a thousand
is a useful member of society, or a good subject of the state. Four-fifths of the criminals
in the city jail of Lima are Zambos. They commit the most hideous crimes with the utmost indifference,
and their lawless propensities are continually bringing them into collision with the constituted
authorities. In moral nature they are below the Negroes; for they are totally wanting in any
good qualities possessed by the latter. Their figures are athletic, and their color black,
sometimes slightly tinged with olive-brown. Their noses are much less flat than those of the
Negroes, but their lips are quite as prominent. Their eyes are sunk and penetrating, and their
hair very little longer than that of the Negroes, but curling in larger locks. The men have
very little beard.

The Chinos are but little superior to the Zambos. Indeed, in physical formation they are inferior
to them, for they are small and attenuated. Their countenances are hideously ugly. They have
the Negro nose and mouth, and the Indian forehead, cheeks and eyes. Their hair is black, rough,
but less frizzy than that of the Mulattos. They are deceitful, ill-tempered, and cruel. They
never forget an offence, but brood over it till an opportunity, however distant, presents itself
for wreaking their vengeance. They are very dangerous enemies.

Respecting the half-casts of fairer complexion, especially the Cuarterones and the Quinteros,
there is but little to be said. Both physically and morally they approximate closely to the
whites, among whom they almost rank themselves.

The majority of the foreigners in Lima, and indeed throughout the whole of Peru, are the families
of the Spaniards from Europe, who emigrated to South America before the war of independence.
Since the close of that struggle there has been but little emigration, as the circumstances
of the country are not now very favorable to new settlers. The old Spanish families are for
the most part landed proprietors or merchants. They are people of very temperate habits, but
they are passionately fond of gaming, and in this respect they have bequeathed a dangerous
inheritance to the Creoles. The pride and mercenary spirit which distinguished the Spaniards
before the independence are now broken, if not entirely subdued. The intercourse between them
and the natives, though still somewhat constrained, is every year becoming more and more friendly,
as the privileges enjoyed by the Spaniards, which were a continued cause of hostile feeling,
are now removed.

Next to the Spaniards, the most numerous class of foreigners are the Italians. These are chiefly
Genoese, and the majority are run-away sailors and adventurers. They usually begin by setting
up a Pulperia (a brandy shop), or a spice shop, and gradually extend their traffic until, in
the course of a few years, they amass money enough to return to their native country. Some
of them make good fortunes and possess extensive warehouses.

The French in Lima occupy the same positions as their countrymen in Valparaiso, viz., they
are tailors and hair-dressers, dealers in jewellery and millinery.

The English and North Americans, who are much better liked by the natives than the French,
are chiefly merchants. They are the heads of the principal commercial houses, as Gibbs, Grawley
& Co., Alsop & Co., Templeman and Bergmann, Huth, Crüning & Co., &c. The enterprising spirit
of the English and North Americans has led many of them into extensive mining speculations,
which in some instances have proved very unfortunate.

The Germans in Lima are proportionally few. They are distinguished by their aptitude for business,
and many of them fill high stations in the great English commercial houses. They are held in
high esteem by the natives. The general gravity of their manners has given rise, among the
Limeños, to the saying, "Serio como un Aleman"--Serious as a German.

Settlers from the other American republics have of late years considerably increased in Lima.
After the Chilian expedition, many Chilenos established themselves in Peru, and numbers of
Argentinos, escaping from the terrorism of Rosas in Buenos Ayres, have taken refuge in Lima.

Foreigners being in general more industrious and more steady than the Creoles, the Limeños
readily form connexions with them. The ladies generally prefer marrying a Gringo[29] to a Paisanito.[30]

I may close this chapter on the inhabitants of Lima, with some remarks on the Spanish language
as spoken in the capital of Peru. The old Spaniards, who brought their various dialects into
the New World, retain them there unchanged. The Galician transposes the letters g and j; the
Catalonian adds an s to the final syllables of words, and gives a peculiarly harsh sound to
the letter j; the Andalusian rolls the r over his tongue, and imparts a melodious expression
even to harsh-sounding words; the Biscayan mingles a variety of provincialisms with his own
peculiar dialect. The Madrileño (native of Madrid) prides himself here, as well as in Europe,
in being far superior to the rest of his countrymen in elegance of pronunciation. The Creoles,
however, have gradually dropped the characteristic dialects of their progenitors, and have
adopted new ones, varying one from another in the different South American provinces. The Spanish
language, as spoken by the natives of Peru, differs widely from the correct and pure model
of pronunciation. The inhabitants of the coast have too soft an accent, and they frequently
confound, one with another, letters which have a mutual resemblance in sound. On the other
hand, the people who dwell in the mountainous districts speak with a harsh accent, and very
ungrammatically. As the Swiss force out their guttural tones from the lowest depth of their
throats, and with the strongest possible aspiration, so do the Peruvians of the Cordillera.
The inhabitants of the sand flats of North Germany, on the contrary, impart a ludicrously soft
sound to the harsher consonants; and the same peculiarity is observable in the people who inhabit
the coast of Peru.

Of all the inhabitants of Lima, the white Creoles speak the best Spanish; but still their language
is far from pure. The ladies in particular have the habit of substituting one letter for another
in certain words; for example, instead of pulso (pulse) they say purso, and instead of salsa
(sauce) they say sarsa. In other words they substitute d for r, saying amod for amor, cavalledo
for cavallero. The ll is frequently sounded by the Peruvians like y, a blunder which foreigners
are also very apt to commit; for example, in the word pollo (chicken), which they pronounce
as if it were spelled poyo, and gallina (hen) they pronounce as if spelled gayina. Not only
do they confound single letters, but they frequently change whole syllables; as for instance,
in the word pared (wall), which they transform into pader. The name of the well-known ex-President
Orbegoso was, by two-thirds of the natives of Lima, pronounced as if written Obregoso. There
is no word in the Spanish language beginning with an s followed by a consonant, and the Limeños,
when they attempt to pronounce foreign words or proper names commencing in the manner just
described, never fail to prefix to them the letter e. I know not whether in the schools and
colleges of old Spain this method of prefixing the letter e is adopted in teaching Latin; but
the practice is universal among the students of all the colleges in Lima. For studium they
say estudium; for spurius, espurius; for sceleratus, esceleratus, &c.

To the Limeños the correct pronunciation of these words is extremely difficult, and many have
assured me that they find it impossible to omit the e before the s. Still more arbitrary is
their conversion of h into k in the words mihi, nihil, &c., which they pronounce miki, nikil.

The colored Creoles, who are generally uneducated, speak the Spanish language much more corruptly
than the whites. The Negroes have a very bad accent. Their tongues seem quite unfitted for
the pronunciation of the Spanish language, which many of them render unintelligible by transposing
letters and lopping off syllables.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: Interpretations of the Indian Laws.]

[Footnote 14: His divine genius has produced eternal spring in Arequipa.]

[Footnote 15: "Guia del Peru." "Observaciones sobre el clima de Lima y sus influencias en los
seres organizados en especial el hombre."]

[Footnote 16: The women of Lima clean their teeth several times a day with the root called
Raiz de dientes (literally root for the teeth), of which they keep a piece constantly in their
pocket.]

[Footnote 17: It is related that, during the war of independence, when Lima was alternately
in possession of the Patriots and the Spaniards, a party of the latter, in order to ascertain
the spirit of the Limeños, disguised themselves as Patriots and marched to the vicinity of
the town. On their approach becoming known, a great number of persons proceeded from Callao
to the Alameda to meet them. Among those who went forth to welcome the supposed patriots were
a number of women dressed in the narrow sayas above described. When the disguised Spaniards
had advanced within a little distance of the deceived multitude they began to attack them.
The men saved themselves by flight; but the women, whose sayas impeded their motion, were unable
to escape, and were almost all killed.]

[Footnote 18: A Tapada is a lady closely concealed beneath the folds of her veil or manto.
The term is derived from the verb tapar, to cover or conceal. Taparse a media ojo, is said
of a lady when she draws her manto over her face so as to leave only one eye or rather the
half of an eye uncovered.--T.]

[Footnote 19: A preparation of finely-bruised maize mixed with morsels of pork. It is rolled
in maize leaves, and in that manner served up.]

[Footnote 20: Sweet cakes made of maize and raisins.]

[Footnote 21: A syrup made from the pulp of fruit.]

[Footnote 22: Preserved peas with syrup.]

[Footnote 23: Literally Bigots.]

[Footnote 24: Meaning Yo esclavita! (I, a slave!) Esclavita being the diminutive of Esclava.]

[Footnote 25: Narrative of twenty years' residence in South America, by W. B. Stevenson.]

[Footnote 26: The term Creole is a corruption of the Spanish word criollo, which is derived
from criar to create or to foster. The Spaniards apply the term criollo not merely to the human
race, but also to animals propagated in the colonies, but of pure European blood: thus they
have creole horses, bullocks, poultry, &c.]

[Footnote 27: A brutish Indian; a favorite expression of the Limeños when speaking of the Indians,
who certainly do not merit the compliment.]

[Footnote 28: The word Palangana signifies a wash-hand-basin; but more especially the kind
of basin used by barbers. Figuratively the term is used to designate an empty babbler.]

[Footnote 29: Gringo is a nickname applied to Europeans. It is probably derived from Griego
(Greek).

Schools for primary instruction are numerous in Lima, and upon the whole they are tolerably
well conducted. There are thirty-six of these primary schools, public and private; twenty for
boys, and sixteen for girls; and altogether about 2000 pupils[31] receive in these establishments
the first elements of juvenile instruction. The principal public institutions of this class
are the Normal School of Santo Tomas (in which the Lancasterian system is adopted), and the
Central School of San Lazaro. Each contains from 320 to 350 pupils. Of the private schools,
some are very well conducted by Europeans. The College of Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe was founded
a few years ago by two Spanish merchants. In this establishment the sons of the wealthier class
of people may receive a better education than they can obtain in the public schools. There
are three Latin schools, and the number of pupils attending them amounts to about two hundred.

The College of Santo Toribio is exclusively appropriated to students of theology, who are likewise
received into the College of San Carlos, though the latter is chiefly destined for the study
of jurisprudence. San Carlos was founded in the year 1770 by the Viceroy Amat, who incorporated
with it the previously existing Colleges of San Martin and San Felipe. In the year 1822 the
Colegio de Esquilache was likewise united to San Carlos, which now contains about a hundred
students. The building is large and commodious, containing spacious halls, a fine refectory,
and a well-stored library. There are five professors of law and two of theology. French, English,
geography, natural philosophy, mathematics, drawing, and music are likewise taught in this
college. The annual revenue of the establishment, exclusively of the fees paid by the students,
amounts to 19,000 dollars. During the war of emancipation, this establishment for a time bore
the name of Colegio de San Martin, in honor of General San Martin, the liberator of Chile;
but its original title was soon restored.

The Colegio de San Fernando was founded in 1810 by the Marques de la Concordia, for students
of medicine. In the year 1826 this Institution received the name of Colegio de la Medecina
de la Independencia, a title which it justly merits, for certainly medicine is taught there
with a singular independence of all rules and systems. The Professors, who themselves have
never received any regular instruction, communicate their scanty share of knowledge in a very
imperfect manner to the students. The number of the students is between twelve and fifteen,
and there are two Professors. The clinical lectures are delivered in the Hospital of San Andres,
to which an anatomical amphitheatre was attached in 1792. The heat of the climate renders it
necessary that burials should take place within twenty-four hours after death, a circumstance
which naturally operates as an impediment to the fundamental study of anatomy. It cannot therefore
be matter of surprise that the native surgeons should have but a superficial knowledge of that
important branch of science.

In the University of San Marcos no lectures are delivered, and the twenty-five Professors'
chairs are merely nominal. Honors and degrees are however conferred in San Marcos, and the
same rules and ceremonies are observed as in the Spanish Universities. In the departments of
medicine and jurisprudence there are three degrees; those of Bachelor, Licentiate, and Doctor.
In former times the dignity of Doctor was conferred with great pomp and solemnity, and the
public were admitted in large numbers to witness the ceremony. The acquisition of the degree
of Doctor was then attended by an expense of about two thousand dollars, chiefly expended in
presents. The new Doctor was required to send to every member of the University, from the Bachelors
to the Rector, a new dollar, a goblet full of ice, and a dish of pastry.

Lima is overrun with monks, lay and conventual. The monastic regulations are not very strict,
for the monks are permitted to leave the convents at all hours, according to their own pleasure.
They avail themselves of this liberty to the utmost extent. Friars of various orders are seen
in the streets in numbers. Most of them are fat Dominicans, who sit in the Portales playing
at draughts, or lounge in shops staring at the Tapadas as they pass by. Many of these ecclesiastics
are remarkable for their disregard of personal cleanliness; indeed it would be difficult to
meet with a more slovenly, ignorant, and common-place class of men. They frequent all places
of public entertainment, the coffee-houses, the chichereas, the bull-fights, and the theatres:
these two last-mentioned places of amusement they visit in disguise. The Franciscans and the
Mercenarias are little better than the Dominicans; but the Descalzados (barefooted friars)
lead a somewhat more strict and regular life. To the monks of the Buena Muerte belongs the
duty of administering the last consolation to the dying. Whenever they hear of any person who
is dangerously ill, they hasten to the house without waiting till they are sent for, and they
never leave the invalid until he either recovers or dies. Day and night they sit by the sick-bed,
and scarcely allow themselves time for necessary rest and refreshment. I have known many of
these monks who, from long experience and observation, but without any medical knowledge, had
acquired wonderful shrewdness in determining the degree of danger in cases of illness, and
who could foretel with almost unfailing certainty the moment of dissolution. As soon as the
patient has breathed his last, the monk utters a short prayer, then giving the corpse a knock
on the nose, he silently takes his departure. I have frequently witnessed this singular custom,
but I never could discover its origin or motive. The habit worn by the monks of Buena Muerte
is black, with a large red cross on the breast, and hats with high conical crowns.

Many pious natives, or inhabitants of Lima, have been admitted among the number of the saints.
Of these the most distinguished was the Spaniard Toribio, who, at the beginning of the seventeenth
century, filled the archiepiscopal chair in Lima. His kindness and charity have become proverbial,
and his many acts of benevolence are still alive in the recollection of the people. Of many
anecdotes that are related of him, I may here quote one. Late one night, the patrol who was
on duty in the vicinity of the archbishop's palace, met a man in the street carrying a heavy
load on his back. The challenge, "Who goes there?" was answered by the name "Toribio." The
watch, uttering an oath, impatiently called out "Que Toribio?" (What Toribio?) "El de la esquina!"
(He who dwells at the corner!) was the simple reply. The soldier angrily stepped up to his
interlocutor, and, to his astonishment, recognized the archbishop, who was carrying a sick
person to the hospital.

The saint to whom the Limeños render the highest honor, is Santa Rosa, the saint of the city.
She was a native of Lima, and is the only Peruvian female who has attained the honor of being
ranked among the saints. On the 30th of August, the festival of Santa Rosa is celebrated with
great pomp in the cathedral, and her image, richly bedecked with gold and jewels, is carried
in solemn procession from Santo Domingo to the Sagrario.

Religious processions are among the most favorite amusements of the inhabitants of Lima. They
are always very numerously attended; and it may fairly be said that no merry-making would afford
the Limeños so much diversion as they derive from these pious solemnities. Vast numbers of
ladies join the processions as Tapadas, indulging in all sorts of coquettish airs, and with
thoughts evidently bent on any subject but religion. The gentlemen station themselves in groups
at the corners of the streets, to admire the graceful figures of the Tapadas, whose faces are
concealed; and when the procession has passed one corner they rush to another, to see it defile
a second time; and in this manner continue moving from place to place, as if they could never
see enough of the interesting spectacle. The most brilliant processions are those which take
place on the festivals of Corpus Christi, San Francisco, and Santo Domingo. A very solemn procession
takes place on the 28th of October, the anniversary of the great earthquake of 1746.

Every morning, at a quarter to nine, the great bell of the cathedral announces the raising
of the host, during the performance of high mass. Immediately every sound is hushed in the
streets and squares. Coachmen stop the carriages, riders check their horses, and foot-passengers
stand motionless. Every one suspends his occupation or his conversation, and kneeling down,
with head uncovered, mutters a prayer. But scarcely has the third solemn stroke of the bell
ceased to vibrate, when the noise and movement are resumed; the brief but solemn stillness
of the few preceding moments being thus rendered the more impressive by contrast. The same
incident is renewed in the evening, between six and seven o'clock, when the bell sounds for
the Angelus (Oraciones). The cathedral bell gives the signal, by three slow, measured sounds,
which are immediately repeated from the belfries of all the churches in Lima. Life and action
are then, as if by an invisible hand, suddenly suspended; nothing moves but the lips of the
pious, whispering their prayers. The Oracion being ended, every one makes the sign of the cross,
and says to the person nearest him, Bueñas noches (Good night). It is regarded as an act of
courtesy to allow another to take precedence in saying "Good night," and if several persons
are together, it is expected that the eldest or the most distinguished of the group should
be the first to utter the greeting. It is considered polite to request the person next one
to say Bueñas noches; he with equal civility declines; and the alternate repetition of "diga
Vm." (you say it), "No, Señor, diga Vm." (No, Sir, you say it), threatens sometimes to be endless.

The effect produced by the three strokes of the cathedral bell is truly astonishing. The half-uttered
oath dies on the lips of the uncouth negro; the arm of the cruel Zambo, unmercifully beating
his ass, drops as if paralyzed; the chattering mulatto seems as if suddenly struck dumb; the
smart repartee of the lively Tapada is cut short in its delivery; the shopkeeper lays down
his measure; the artizan drops his tool; and the monk suspends his move on the draught-board:
all, with one accord, join in the inaudible prayer. Here and there the sight of a foreigner
walking along indifferently, and without raising his hat, makes a painful impression on the
minds of the people.

Christmas-night (Noche buena) is a great festival in Lima. The streets and squares, especially
the Plaza Mayor, are crowded with people, amusing themselves in all sorts of ways. Hundreds
of persons take their seats on the benches of the Plaza; there they regale themselves with
sherbet, ices, and pastry, and look at the dancing of the negroes, &c. On this occasion the
midnight mass is performed with extraordinary solemnity. On Christmas-day some of the families
of Lima get up what are called Nacimientos, consisting of symbolical representations of the
birth of the Saviour. On some of these shows considerable expense and ingenuity are bestowed.

In Carnival time Lima is so unpleasant a place of residence that many families retire to the
country during that season of misrule. One of the favorite sports consists in sprinkling people
with water; and from all the balconies various kinds of liquids are thrown on the passers-by.
Groups of Negroes post themselves at the corners of the streets, where they seize people, and
detain them prisoners, until they ransom themselves by the payment of a certain sum of money.
Those who do not pay the money are rolled in the street gutters, and treated in the most merciless
way; whilst those who purchase grace escape with having a few handfulls of dirty water thrown
in their faces. Even in private houses, relations and intimate acquaintances are guilty of
the most unwarrantable annoyances. Parties of young men enter the houses of families with whom
they are acquainted, and begin sprinkling the ladies with scented water. That being exhausted,
spring water, or even dirty water, is resorted to, so that what began in sport ends in reckless
rudeness. The ladies, with their clothes dripping wet, are chased from room to room, and thereby
become heated. The consequence is, in many instances, severe and dangerous illness. Inflammation
of the lungs, ague, rheumatism, &c., are the usual results of these carnival sports, to which
many fall victims. A year never passes in which several murders are not committed, in revenge
for offences perpetrated during the saturnalia of the carnival.

A very favorite trick adopted in carnival time, for frightening people as they pass along the
streets, is the following:--a sack, filled with fragments of broken glass and porcelain, is
fastened to the balcony by a strong rope, of such a length that, when suspended from the window,
the sack is about seven feet above the street. The apparatus being all ready, a mischievous
negress and her amita (young mistress) watch the passers-by until they select one for their
victim. The sack is then thrown over the front of the balcony, and a deafening crash ensues,
though the rope prevents its contents from hurting any one. It is well known that in almost
every street in Lima there is at least one balcony ready prepared for the performance of this
trick; yet the suddenness of the crash always proves a shock, even to the strongest nerves.
People start and run to one side of the street, and are sometimes so terrified that they drop
down; then loud laughter and jeering remarks are heard in the balcony. Every year this trick
is prohibited by the police, but the prohibition is treated with contempt.

One of the most popular recreations of the Limeños, especially of the people of color, is the
Paseo de Amancaes, which takes place on St. John's Day. The Amancaes is a gently sloping plain,
about half a mile north-west of Lima, and it is bounded by a semicircular range of hills, which
rise from twelve to fifteen thousand feet above the level of the sea. During the hot months
of the year this plain is a parched and barren waste; but when the misty and rainy season sets
in, the Amancaes is covered with numerous flowers, among which a beautiful yellow lily is conspicuous.
About the end of June this lily is in full bloom. On St. John's Day booths and stalls are fitted
up for the sale of various kinds of refreshments, and throngs of people of all classes and
colors are seen riding or walking in the direction of the Amancaes. There they amuse themselves
with dancing, playing, eating, drinking, and gathering flowers; and in the evening they return
to Lima. It is amusing to see the Mulattas and Zambas with bouquets of yellow lilies stuck
in their heads and bosoms. These women crowd into heavily-laden vehicles, beside which their
black cavaliers ride on horseback--all laughing, jesting, and giving vent to unrestrained mirth.
From the 24th of June to the end of October, pleasure parties repair on Sundays and festival
days, either to the Amancaes or to the Lomas. The latter is a range of hills a little further
from Lima.

There is no want of promenades in the vicinity of the city. Leading from the Callao gate is
the fine long avenue of trees I have already mentioned. In the suburb of San Lazaro there is
a fine broad promenade planted with trees, called the alameda vieja, at the end of which is
situated the Convent of the Descalzos. Along the bank of the Rimac there is a new promenade
planted with four rows of trees, called the alameda nueva. Behind it the Paseo militar, with
two rows of trees, extending as far as Piedra lisa, on the road to the pleasant village of
Lurigancho. On the right of these promenades is the river, on the left the pyramidal hill,
of the Cerro de San Cristoval. At the extremity of the Alameda nueva are the Puquio.[32] These
baths are within a long low-roofed building, covered on the top with straw mats.

On summer evenings the bridge and the Plaza Mayor are visited by throngs of promenaders who
there enjoy the refreshing breeze, which, after sunset, is wafted from the Cordilleras, along
the surface of the Rimac. After the hour of the Oraciones (evening prayers), the bridge is
crowded with gentlemen, who walk up and down whilst the ladies sit in the rotundas built above
each of the piers. Long rows of promenaders are seen moving to and fro, either going to the
Alamedas, or returning from thence to the Plaza, to obtain refreshments. Before the Portal
de los Escribanos, on the Plaza Mayor, tables are laid out with lemonade, almond milk and ices.
The promenaders sit down on benches, which are placed round these tables, and partake of refreshments,
none of which, however, are so delicious as the cool breeze after the sultry heat of the day.

To the inhabitants of Lima, ice is one of the necessaries of life: it is considered so indispensable,
that a scarcity of it, during several days, would be sufficient to excite popular ferment.
In all revolutions, therefore, the leaders carefully avoid calling into requisition the service
of the mules employed in the transport of ice. It is obtained in the Cordilleras, at the distance
of about twenty-eight leagues from Lima. The Indians who ascend the glaciers break the ice
into blocks of about six arobas in weight, which are lowered by ropes down the declivity of
the mountain. The women and children then cover the blocks of ice with Ichu grass (Joara ichu,
R. P.), after which they are drawn by another party of Indians to a depôt, about two leagues
distant, where they are packed on the backs of mules. Each mule carries two blocks. Thirty
mules form what is called a Recua, which daily proceeds from the ice depôt to Lima. At intervals
of two or three miles there are stations where relays of mules are in readiness. The operations
of unloading and reloading are performed with the utmost possible speed, and the mules are
driven at a brisk trot, wherever the roads will admit of it. In the space of eighteen or twenty
hours, the ice reaches Lima, and as may be expected, considerably reduced in weight by melting.
The average loss on two blocks of ice is about one hundred pounds.[33] The daily consumption
of ice in Lima is between fifty and fifty-five cwt. About two-thirds of that quantity is used
for preparing ices, most of which are made of milk or pine-apple juice. Ice is hawked about
the streets of Lima for sale, and all day long Indians, carrying pails on their heads, perambulate
the streets, crying helado.

The ladies of Lima, when they make visits, seldom go on foot. They generally ride in the caleza,
a very ugly kind of vehicle, being nothing more than a square box raised on two high wheels,
and drawn by a mule, on whose back a negro in livery is mounted. Many of the older calezas,
instead of being painted on the outside, are covered with variegated paper. The calezin is
a prettier kind of carriage, and is drawn by two horses or mules. Taste in the article of carriages
is, however, improving in Lima, and several very elegant ones have been recently introduced.

Within the last few years a regular line of omnibuses has been established between Callao and
Lima. From each of those cities an omnibus starts daily, at eight in the morning and at four
in the afternoon, and the journey occupies an hour and a half. To Miraflores, Chorillos, Lurin,
and other places on the coast, the conveyance is by a balanzin, a sort of caleza, drawn by
three horses harnessed abreast. This balanzin is one of the most awkward vehicles ever invented,
and the slightest shock it sustains is felt with double force by the persons riding in it.
At greater distances from the capital, the want of proper roads renders the employment of vehicles
a matter of difficulty. Even along the coast to the south of Lima, a journey of about forty
leagues cannot be accomplished without vast difficulty and expense. On such a journey it is
usual for a train of sixty or eighty horses to accompany the carriage; and it is found necessary
to change the horses every half-hour, owing to the difficulty of drawing the carriage through
the fine quicksand, which is often more than a foot deep. A Peruvian planter, who was accustomed
to take his wife every year on a visit to his plantation, situated about thirty-two leagues
from Lima, assured me that the journey to and fro always cost him 1400 dollars.

During the brilliant period of the Spanish domination, incredible sums were frequently expended
on carriages and mules. Not unfrequently the tires of the caleza wheels and the shoes of the
mules were of silver instead of iron.

In Peru, riding is a universal custom, and almost every person keeps one or more horses. The
ladies of Lima are distinguished as graceful horsewomen. Their equestrian costume consists
of a white riding-habit, trowsers richly trimmed with lace, a fine white poncho, and a broad-brimmed
straw hat. Some of the females of the colored races make use of men's saddles, and display
great skill in the management of the most unruly horses.

The horse-trappings used in Peru are often very costly. On the coast and in the interior, I
have sometimes seen head-gear, bridle, and crupper, composed of finely-wrought silver rings,
linked one into another. The saddle is frequently ornamented with rich gold embroidery, and
the holster inlaid with gold. The stirrups are usually the richest portion of the trappings.
They are made of carved wood, and are of pyramidal shape; about a foot high and a foot broad
at the base. In front and at the sides they are close, and are open only at the back in the
part where the foot rests. The edges are rimmed with silver, and the top of the stirrup is
surmounted by a bell of the same metal, with a ring through which the straps are passed. A
priest with whom I was acquainted in the Sierra, got a saddle and a pair of stirrups made for
me. The silver ornaments on the stirrups alone weighed forty pounds. The decorations of the
saddle were of corresponding richness. The value of the silver on both saddle and stirrups
was about 1500 dollars. The spurs used in Peru are of colossal magnitude. Old custom ordains
that they must contain three marks (a pound and a half) of silver. The stirrup-bow is broad
and richly wrought; the ornaments being either of the pattern called hueso de tollo,[34] or
of that styled hoja de laurel con semilla.[35] The rowel is one and a half or two inches in
diameter, and the points are about twenty-five or thirty inches long.

In the bridle, the bit and the snaffle are in one piece, and the reins are brought together
by being passed through a ring, to which the long riding-whip is also fastened. The head-band
and reins are commonly composed of narrow slips of untanned calf or sheep-skin, plaited together,
and ornamented with silver buckles. The saddle is short and narrow, and exceedingly awkward
to riders unaccustomed to it. The front bolster is four or five inches high, and inclines backward;
the hind one is lower, and is curved forward in the form of a half-moon; the intervening space
just affording sufficient room for the thighs of the rider, who, in a saddle of this construction,
is so firmly fixed that he cannot possibly fall. These saddles have, however, one great disadvantage,
viz., that if the horse starts off at a gallop, and the rider has not time to throw himself
back in his seat, he is forced against the front saddle-bolster with such violence that some
fatal injury is usually the consequence. Under the saddle is laid a horse-cloth, called the
pellon, about a yard long, and a yard and a half wide. The common sort of pellones are composed
of two rough sheep-skins, sewed together. In the finer kind, the raw wool is combed out, and
divided into numberless little twists, of about the length of one's finger; so that the pellon
resembles the skin of some long-haired animal. The finest Peruvian pellones are made of a mixture
of sheep's wool and goat's hair. Between the saddle and the pellon are fastened the saddle-bags
(alforjas), which, on long journeys, are filled with provisions and other necessaries. These
bags are made either of leather or strong woollen cloth; finally, the trappings of a Peruvian
horse are not complete without the halter (haquima), which is ornamented in the same manner
as the bridle. The halter-strap (cabresto) is wound round the front bolster of the saddle,
and by it the horse may be fastened whenever the rider alights, without the use of the reins
for that purpose. At first a foreigner is apt to regard the equipments of a Peruvian horse
as superfluous and burthensome; but he is soon convinced of their utility, and, when the eye
becomes familiar to them, they have a pleasing effect.

The pure-bred Peruvian horse is more elegantly formed than his Andalusian progenitor. He is
of middling size, seldom exceeding fourteen hands high. He has a strong expanded chest, slender
legs, thin pasterns, a short muscular neck, a rather large head, small pointed ears, and a
fiery eye. He is spirited, docile, and enduring. It is only in a few plantations that the purity
of the race is preserved, and the animals fostered with due care. The common horse is higher,
leaner, less broad on the chest, and with the crupper thinner and more depressed. He is, however,
not less fiery and capable of endurance than the horse of pure breed. The most inferior horses
are ill-looking, small, and rough-skinned.

On the coast of Peru the horses are for the most part natural amblers, and, if they do not
amble naturally, they are taught to do so. There are several varieties of amble peculiar to
the Peruvian horse; the most approved is that called the paso llano. It is very rapid, but
not attended by any jolting motion to the rider. A well-trained horse may safely be ridden
by a young child at the paso llano; the motion being so gentle and regular, that the rider
may carry a cup of water in his hand without spilling a drop, at the same time going at the
rate of two leagues an hour. Another variety of ambling is called the paso portante. It consists
in the fore and hind foot of one side being raised simultaneously, and thrust forward. In this
movement, the greater or less speed depends on the degree in which the hind foot is advanced
in comparison with the fore one. It is a rapid, rocking sort of motion, and for long continuance
is much more wearying to the rider than the common trot, as the body cannot be held upright,
but must be kept in a constant stooping position. The speed of a good ambler in the paso portante
is so great, that he will outstrip another horse at full gallop. The giraffe, as well as the
Peruvian horse, has this peculiar movement naturally. The paso compañero is merely a nominal
modification of the paso portante. Many horses have no paso llano, but in its stead a short
trot. These have naturally the paso portante, but they are little esteemed for travelling,
though they are good working animals. They are called cavallos aguelillos. Trotting horses
cannot be taught the paso llano, though they easily acquire the paso portante. These are called
cavallos trabados.

In Peru a horse is valued less for beauty of form than for the perfection of his amble. The
finest trotters are sold at very low prices, and are used exclusively as carriage horses. If
a horse when spurred has the habit of flapping his tail, it is considered a serious fault,
and greatly depreciates the value of the animal. This vice is called mosquear (literally brushing
off the mosquitoes), and the Peruvians cure it by an incision in the muscle of the tail, by
which means the horse is disabled from making the movement.

The Peruvians take very little care of their horses. The remark, that the more the horse is
tended, the worse he is, would seem to be a generally admitted truth in Peru. The stable (coral)
is either totally roofless, or very indifferently sheltered. In the mountainous parts of the
country, and during the rainy season, horses are frequently, for the space of six months, up
to their knees in mud, and yet they never seem to be the worse for it. The fodder consists
of lucern (alfalfa), or maisillo, which is usually thrown down on the ground, though sometimes
placed in a stone trough, and the drink of the animals consists of impure water collected from
the ditches at the road sides. Occasionally the horses are fed with maize, which they are very
fond of. As no oats are grown in Peru, barley is given together with maize, especially in the
interior of the country. Mares and geldings have sometimes the hair between the ears cut off
quite closely, and the mane arranged in short curls, which gives them a resemblance to the
horses in ancient sculpture. Mares are but little valued, so little indeed, that no respectable
person will ride one.

