'Our happiness were complete, as now it can be, could Fausta and Gracchus be but added to our
numbers. I shall hope, in the lapse of days or months, to entice them away for a season from
their melancholy home. And yet what better can I offer them here? There they behold their city
in ruins; here their Queen. There they already detect some tokens of reviving life; here they
would have before them but the picture of decay and approaching death. But these things I ought
not to say. Piso, you will be glad to learn the purposes of Aurelian concerning Palmyra. He
has already set apart large sums for the restoration of its walls and temples; and what is
more and better, he has made Gracchus governor of the city and province, with liberal promises
of treasure to carry into effect whatever designs he may conceive as most likely to people
again the silent streets, and fill them with the merchants of the East and the West.'

'Aurelian, I am persuaded,' I replied, 'will feel upon him the weight of the strongest motives
to do all that he can to repair the injuries he has inflicted. Then too, in addition to this,
his nature is generous.'

'It is so,' said Julia. 'How happy if he had been less subject to his passions! The proofs
of a generous nature you see here, Piso, every where around us. This vast and magnificent palace,
with its extensive grounds, has he freely bestowed upon us; and here, as your eye has already
informed you, has he caused to be brought and arranged every article of use or luxury found
in the palace of Palmyra, and capable of transportation.'

'I could hardly believe,' I said, 'as I approached the great entrance, and beheld objects so
familiar--still more, when I came within the walls and saw around me all that I had seen in
Palmyra, that I was indeed in the vicinity of Rome, and had not been by some strange power
transported suddenly to Asia. In the rash violence of Aurelian in Syria, and in this reparation,
both here and there, of the evil he has committed to the farthest extent possible, you witness
a genuine revelation of his character. Would that principle rather than passion were the governing
power of his life!'

Although I have passed many days at Tibur, yet have I seen but little of Zenobia. She is silent
and solitary. Her thoughts are evidently never with the present, but far back among the scenes
of her former life. To converse is an effort. The lines of grief have fixed themselves upon
her countenance; her very form and manner are expressive of a soul bowed and subdued by misfortune.
Her pride seems no longer, as on the day of the triumph, to bear her up. It is Zenobia before
me, but--like her own beautiful capital--it is Zenobia in ruins. That she suffers too from
the reproaches of a mind now conscious of its errors I cannot doubt. She blames Aurelian, but
I am persuaded she blames with no less severity herself. It is, I doubt not, the image of her
desolated country rising before her, that causes her so often in the midst of discourse with
us, or when she has been sitting long silent, suddenly to start and clasp her hands, and withdraw
weeping to her apartments, or the seclusion of the garden.

'It will be long, very long,' Julia has said to me, 'before Zenobia will recover from this
grief--if indeed she ever do. Would that the principles of that faith, which we have learned
to believe and prize, were also hers! Life would then still place before her a great object,
which now she wants. The past absorbs her wholly--the future is nothing. She dwells upon glories
that are departed forever, and is able to anticipate no other, or greater, in this world--nor
with certainty in any beyond it.'

I said, 'But doubtless she throws herself at this season upon her Jewish faith and philosophy.
She has ever spoken of it with respect at least, if not with affection.'

