THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 19. No. 547.]    SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1832    [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILTON CASTLE.

Here is one of the ivy-mantled relics that lend even a charm to romantic nature on the banks
of the Wye. Its shattered tower and crumbling wall, combine with her wild luxuriance, to form
a scene of great picturesque beauty, though, as Gilpin observes, "the scene wants accompaniments
to give it grandeur."

These ruins stand opposite to Ross, on the western bank of the Wye. The Castle was for several
centuries the baronial residence of the Greys of the south, who derived from it their first
title, and who became owners in the time of Edward the First. It may therefore be presumed
to have been one of the strongholds, in the great struggles for feudal superiority with Wales,
which were commenced by Edward, whose "active and splendid reign may be considered as an attempt
to subject the whole island of Great Britain to his sway."[1] Or, in earlier times, being situated
on the ancient barrier between England and Wales, it may have been a station of some importance,
from its contiguity to Hereford, which city was destroyed by the Welsh, but rebuilt and fortified
by Harold, who also strengthened the castle. The whole district is of antiquarian interest,
since, at the period of the Roman invasion, Herefordshire was inhabited by the Silures, who
also occupied the adjacent counties of Radnor, Monmouth, and Glamorgan, together with that
part of Gloucestershire which lies westward of the Severn. The Silures, in conjunction with
the Ordovices, or inhabitants of North Wales, retarded, for a considerable period, the progress
of the Roman victors, whose grand object seems to have been the conquest of these nations,
who had chosen the gallant Caractacus as their chieftain, and resolutely exhausted every effort
in defence of the independence of their country.

    [1] Mackintosh's Hist. England, vol. i, p. 247.

The present demolished state of the Castle is referred to the Royalist Governors of Hereford,
by whose orders it was burnt to the bare walls during the reign of Charles I. in the absence
of its then possessor, Sir J. Brydges.

The scenery of the WYE, at this point is thus described by tourists: "From Hereford to Ross,
its features occasionally assume greater boldness; though more frequently their aspect is placid;
but at the latter town wholly emerging from its state of repose," it resumes the brightness
and rapidity of its primitive character, as it forms the admired curve which the churchyard
of Ross commands. The celebrated spire of Ross church, peeping over a noble row of elms, here
fronts the ruined Castle of Wilton, beneath the arches of whose bridge, the Wye flows through
a charming succession of meadows, encircling at last the lofty and well-wooded hill, crowned
with the majestic fragments of Gooderich Castle, and opposed by the waving eminences of the
forest of Dean. The mighty pile, or peninsula, of Symonds' Rock succeeds, round which the river
flows in a circuit of seven miles, though the opposite points of the isthmus are only one mile
asunder. Shortly afterwards, the Wye quits the county, and enters Monmouthshire at the New Wear.

The Rev. Mr. Gilpin, in his charming little volume on Picturesque Beauty,[2] has a few appropriate
observations: after passing Wilton--

    [2] Observations on the River Wye, &c. By William Gilpin,
    M.A.--Fifth Edition.

"We met with nothing for some time during our voyage but grand, woody banks, one rising behind
another; appearing and vanishing by turns, as we doubled the several capes. But though no particular
objects characterized these different scenes, yet they afforded great variety of pleasing views,
both as we wound round the several promontories, which discovered new beauties as each scene
opened, and when we kept the same scene a longer time in view, stretching along some lengthened
reach, where the river is formed into an irregular vista by hills shooting out beyond each
other and going off in perspective."

We ought not to forget to mention Ross, and its association with one of the noblest works of
GOD--honest John Kyrle, celebrated as the Man of Ross. Pope, during his visits at Holm-Lacey,
in the vicinity, obtained sufficient knowledge of his beneficence, to render due homage to
his worth in one of the brightest pages of the records of human character.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MOTHER CAREY'S CHICKENS"--EGGS.

(For the Mirror.)

In a paper on the Superstitions of the Sea, a few years ago,[3] I slightly alluded to the nautical
belief that the appearance of the Stormy Petrel, and other marine birds at sea, was often considered
to be the forerunner of peril and disaster; and as your excellent correspondent, M.L.B., in
a recent number, expresses a wish to know the origin of the soubriquet of Mother Carey's Chickens,
which the former birds have obtained, I now give it with all the brevity which is consistent
with so important a narration. It appears that a certain outward-bound Indiaman, called the
Tiger, (but in what year I am unable to state,) had encountered one continued series of storms,
during her whole passage; till on nearing the Cape of Good Hope, she was almost reduced to
a wreck. Here, however, the winds and waves seemed bent on her destruction; in the midst of
the storm, flocks of strange looking birds were seen hovering and wheeling in the air around
the devoted ship, and one of the passengers, a woman called "Mother Carey," was observed by
the glare of the lightning to laugh and smile when she looked at these foul-weather visitants;
on which she was not only set down as a witch, but it was also thought that they were her familiars,
whom she had invoked from the Red Sea; and "all hands" were seriously considering on the propriety
of getting rid of the old beldam, (as is usual in such cases,) by setting her afloat, when
she saved them the trouble, and at that moment jumped overboard, surrounded by flames; on which
the birds vanished, the storm cleared away, and the tempest-tossed Tiger went peacefully on
her course! Ever since the occurrence of this "astounding yarn," the birds have been called
"Mother Carey's Chickens," and are considered by our sailors to be the most unlucky of all
the feathered visitants at sea.

    [3] See Mirror, No. 205, vol. xi.

To turn by a not unnatural transition from birds to eggs, permit me to inform your Scottish
correspondent, S.S. (see No. 536,) where he asserts that the plan of rubbing eggs with grease
in order to preserve them, "is not so much as known in our own boasted land of stale eggs and
bundlewood;" that the said discovery has long been known and practised in many parts of old
England; and that the repeated experience of several friends warrants me in giving a decided
negative to his assertion that eggs so prepared "will keep any length of time perfectly fresh."
If kept for a considerable period, though they do not become absolutely bad, yet they turn
very stale. I happen to know something of Scotland, and was never before aware that the raw
clime of our northern neighbours was so celebrated for its poultry. M.L.B. is certainly misinformed
in speaking of the trade in Scotch eggs to America. The importation of eggs from the continent
into England is very extensive: the duty in 1827 amounted at the rate of 10d. per 120, to 23,062l.
19s. 1d.; since which period there has, we believe, been an increase. The importation of eggs
from Ireland is also very large. If S.S. resides in London, he may have occasion to sneer at
"our boasted land of stale eggs;" but he should rather sneer at the preserved French eggs,
with which the London dealers are principally supplied.

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURFEW BELL.

(To the Editor.)

In addition to the remarks made by Reginald, in No. 543, and by M.D., and G.C., in No. 545
of The Mirror, let me add that the Curfew is rung every night at eight, in my native town,
(Winchester,) and the bell, a large one, weighing 12 cwt., is appropriated for the purpose,
(not belonging to a church) but affixed in the tower of the Guildhall, and used only for this
occasion, or on an alarm of fire.

In that city the Curfew was first established under the command of the Conqueror, and the practice
has continued to the present day. I have been assured by many old residents, that it formerly
was the custom to ring the bell every morning at four o'clock, but the practice being found
annoying to persons living near, the Corporation ordered it to be discontinued.

To such of your readers who, like myself, are fond of a solitary ramble along the sea shore
by moonlight, I would say, go to Southampton or the Isle of Wight; take an evening walk from
Itchen through the fields to Netley, thence to the Abbey and Fort ruins, under woods that for
a considerable distance skirt the coast; or on the opposite side, through the Forest of Oaks,
from Eling to Dibden, and onwards over the meadows to Hythe: there they may, in either, find
ample food for reflection, connected with the Curfew Bell.

Seated on a fragment of the towers of Netley Abbey, whose pinnacles were so often hailed by
seamen as well known landmarks, but whose Curfew has for centuries been quiet, the spectator
may see before him the crumbling remains of a fort, erected hundreds of years ago. On the left
is an expanse of water as far as the eye can reach, and in his front the celebrated New Forest,--

  Majestic woods of ever vigorous green,
  Stage above stage, high waving o'er the bills;
  Or to the far horizon wide diffus'd,
  A boundless deep immensity of shade--

the scene of William's tyranny and atrocity, the spot where his children met their untimely
end, and where may be seen the tumuli erected over the remains of the Britons who fell in defence
of their country.

In the deep recesses of a wood in the south-east prospect, the eye may faintly distinguish
the mouldering remains of the Abbey of Beaulieu, famed in days of yore for its Sanctuary, the
name of which is now only recorded in history. Even the site of the tower is unknown, whose
Curfew has long ceased to warn the seamen, or draw the deep curse from the forester.

The Curfew is rung at Southampton, Downton, Ringwood, and many other towns in the west, every
night at eight.

P.Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPANISH SCENERY.

The following is from the delightful pencil of Washington Irving: it will be seen to bear all
the polish of his best style:--

"Many are apt to picture Spain to their imaginations as a soft southern region, decked out
with all the luxuriant charms of voluptuous Italy. What adds to this silence and loneliness,
is the absence of singing-birds, a natural consequence of the want of groves and hedges. The
vulture and the eagle are seen wheeling about the mountain-cliffs, and soaring over the plains,
and groups of shy bustards stalk about the heaths; but the myriads of smaller birds, which
animate the whole face of other countries are met with in but few provinces in Spain, and in
those chiefly among the orchards and gardens which surround the habitations of man.

"In the interior provinces the traveller occasionally traverses great tracts cultivated with
grain as far as the eye can reach, waving at times with verdure, at other times naked and sunburnt,
but he looks round in vain for the hand that has tilled the soil. At length, he perceives some
village on a steep hill, or rugged crag, with mouldering battlements and ruined watch tower;
a stronghold, in old times, against civil war, or Moorish inroad; for the custom among the
peasantry of congregating together for mutual protection, is still kept up in most parts of
Spain, in consequence of the maraudings of roving freebooters.

"But though a great part of Spain is deficient in the garniture of groves and forests, and
the softer charms of ornamental cultivation, yet its scenery has something of a high and lofty
character to compensate the want. It partakes something of the attributes of its people; and
I think that I better understand the proud, hardy, frugal, and abstemious Spaniard, his manly
defiance of hardships, and contempt of effeminate indulgences, since I have seen the country
he inhabits.

"There is something, too, in the sternly simple features of the Spanish landscape, that impresses
on the soul a feeling of sublimity. The immense plains of the Castiles and of La Mancha, extending
as far as the eye can reach, derive an interest from their very nakedness and immensity, and
have something of the solemn grandeur of the ocean. In ranging over these boundless wastes,
the eye catches sight here and there of a straggling herd of cattle attended by a lonely herdsman,
motionless as a statue, with his long, slender pike tapering up like a lance into the air;
or, beholds a long train of mules slowly moving along the waste like a train of camels in the
desert; or, a single herdsman, armed with blunderbuss and stiletto, and prowling over the plain.
Thus the country, the habits, the very looks of the people, have something of the Arabian character.
The general insecurity of the country is evinced in the universal use of weapons. The herdsman
in the field, the shepherd in the plain, has his musket and his knife. The wealthy villager
rarely ventures to the market-town without his trabuco, and, perhaps, a servant on foot with
a blunderbuss on his shoulder; and the most petty journey is undertaken with the preparation
of a warlike enterprise.

"The dangers of the road produce also a mode of travelling, resembling, on a diminutive scale,
the caravans of the east. The arrieros, or carriers, congregate in convoys, and set off in
large and well-armed trains on appointed days; while additional travellers swell their number,
and contribute to their strength. In this primitive way is the commerce of the country carried
on. The muleteer is the general medium of traffic, and the legitimate traverser of the land,
crossing the peninsula from the Pyrenees and the Asturias to the Alpuxarras, the Serrania de
Ronda, and even to the gates of Gibraltar. He lives frugally and hardily: his alforjas of coarse
cloth hold his scanty stock of provisions; a leathern bottle, hanging at his saddle-bow, contains
wine or water, for a supply across barren mountains and thirsty plains. A mule-cloth spread
upon the ground, is his bed at night, and his pack-saddle is his pillow. His low, but clean-limbed
and sinewy form betokens strength; his complexion is dark and sunburnt; his eye resolute, but
quiet in its expression, except when kindled by sudden emotion; his demeanour is frank, manly,
and courteous, and he never passes you without a grave salutation: 'Dios guarde à usted!' 'Va
usted con Dios, Caballero!' 'God guard you! God be with you, Cavalier!'

"As these men have often their whole fortune at stake upon the burthen of their mule, they
have their weapons at hand, slung to their saddles, and ready to be snatched out for desperate
defence. But their united numbers render them secure against petty bands of marauders, and
the solitary bandolero, armed to the teeth, and mounted on his Andalusian steed, hovers about
them, like a pirate about a merchant convoy, without daring to make an assault.

"The Spanish muleteer has an inexhaustible stock of songs and ballads, with which to beguile
his incessant wayfaring. The airs are rude and simple, consisting of but few inflexions. These
he chants forth with a loud voice, and long, drawling cadence, seated sideways on his mule,
who seems to listen with infinite gravity, and to keep time, with his paces, to the tune. The
couplets thus chanted, are often old traditional romances about the Moors, or some legend of
a saint, or some love-ditty; or what is still more frequent, some ballad about a bold contrabandista,
or hardy bandolero, for the smuggler and the robber are poetical heroes among the common people
of Spain. Often the song of the muleteer is composed at the instant, and relates to some local
scenes or some incident of the journey. This talent of singing and improvising is frequent
in Spain, and is said to have been inherited from the Moors. There is something wildly pleasing
in listening to these ditties among the rude and lonely scenes that they illustrate; accompanied,
as they are, by the occasional jingle of the mule-bell.

"It has a most picturesque effect also to meet a train of muleteers in some mountain-pass.
First you hear the bells of the leading mules, breaking with their simple melody the stillness
of the airy height; or, perhaps, the voice of the muleteer admonishing some tardy or wandering
animal, or chanting, at the full stretch of his lungs, some traditionary ballad. At length
you see the mules slowly winding along the cragged defile, sometimes descending precipitous
cliffs, so as to present themselves in full relief against the sky, sometimes toiling up the
deep arid chasms below you. As they approach, you descry their gay decorations of worsted tufts,
tassels, and saddle-cloths, while, as they pass by, the ever-ready trabuco slung behind the
packs and saddles, gives a hint of the insecurity of the road.

"The ancient kingdom of Granada, into which we are about to penetrate, is one of the most mountainous
regions of Spain. Vast sierras, or chains of mountains, destitute of shrub or tree, and mottled
with variegated marbles and granites, elevate their sun-burnt summits against a deep-blue sky;
yet in their rugged bosoms lie engulfed the most verdant and fertile valley, where the desert
and the garden strain for mastery, and the very rock is, as it were, compelled to yield the
fig, the orange, and the citron, and to blossom with the myrtle and the rose.

"In the wild passes of these mountains the sight of walled towns and villages, built like eagles'
nests among the cliffs, and surrounded by Moorish battlements, or of ruined watch-towers perched
on lofty peaks, carries the mind back to the chivalric days of Christian and Moslem warfare,
and to the romantic struggle for the conquest of Granada. In traversing these lofty sierras
the traveller is often obliged to alight and lead his horse up and down the steep and jagged
ascents and descents, resembling the broken steps of a staircase. Sometimes the road winds
along dizzy precipices, without parapet to guard him from the gulfs below, and then will plunge
down steep, and dark, and dangerous declivities. Sometimes it straggles through rugged barrancos,
or ravines, worn by winter torrents, the obscure path of the contrabandista; while, ever and
anon, the ominous cross, the monument of robbery and murder, erected on a mound of stones at
some lonely part of the road, admonishes the traveller that he is among the haunts of banditti,
perhaps at that very moment under the eye of some lurking bandolero. Sometimes, in winding
through the narrow valleys, he is startled by a hoarse bellowing, and beholds above him on
some green fold of the mountain side a herd of fierce Andalusian bulls, destined for the combat
of the arena. There is something awful in the contemplation of these terrific animals, clothed
with tremendous strength, and ranging their native pastures in untamed wildness, strangers
almost to the face of man: they know no one but the solitary herdsman who attends upon them,
and even he at times dares not venture to approach them. The low bellowing of these bulls,
and their menacing aspect as they look down from their rocky height, give additional wildness
to the savage scenery around."

(From The Alhambra, or New Sketch Book, to which we propose to return in a Supplement in a
fortnight.)

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNLUCKY PRESENT: A TALE.

A Lanarkshire minister (who died within the present century) was one of those unhappy persons,
who, to use the words of a well known Scottish adage, "can never see green cheese but their
een reels." He was extremely covetous and that not only of nice articles of food, but of many
other things which do not generally excite the cupidity of the human heart. The following story
is in corroboration of this assertion:--Being on a visit one day at the house of one of his
parishioners, a poor lonely widow, living in a moorland part of the parish, he became fascinated
by the charms of a little cast-iron pot, which happened at the time to be lying on the hearth,
full of potatoes for the poor woman's dinner, and that of her children. He had never in his
life seen such a nice little pot--it was a perfect conceit of a thing--it was a gem--no pot
on earth could match it in symmetry--it was an object altogether perfectly lovely. "Dear sake!
minister," said the widow, quite overpowered by the reverend man's commendations of her pot;
"if ye like the pot sae weel as a' that, I beg ye'll let me send it to the manse. It's a kind
o' orra (superfluous) pot wi' us; for we've a bigger ane, that we use for ordinar, and that's
mair convenient every way for us. Sae ye'll just tak a present o't. I'll send it ower the morn
wi' Jamie, when he gangs to the schule." "Oh!" said the minister, "I can by no means permit
you to be at so much trouble. Since you are so good as to give me the pot, I'll just carry
it home with me in my hand. I'm so much taken with it, indeed, that I would really prefer carrying
it myself." After much altercation between the minister and the widow, on this delicate point
of politeness, it was agreed that he should carry home the pot himself.

Off then he trudged, bearing this curious little culinary article, alternately in his hand
and under his arm, as seemed most convenient to him. Unfortunately the day was warm, the way
long, and the minister fat; so that he became heartily tired of his burden before he got half-way
home. Under these distressing circumstances, it struck him, that, if, instead of carrying the
pot awkwardly at one side of his person, he were to carry it on his head, the burden would
be greatly lightened; the principles of natural philosophy, which he had learned at college,
informing him, that when a load presses directly and immediately upon any object, it is far
less onerous than when it hangs at the remote end of a lever. Accordingly, doffing his hat,
which he resolved to carry home in his band, and having applied his handkerchief to his brow,
he clapped the pot, in inverted fashion, upon his head, where, as the reader may suppose, it
figured much like Mambrino's helmet upon the crazed capital of Don Quixote, only a great deal
more magnificent in shape and dimensions. There was, at first, much relief and much comfort
in this new mode of carrying the pot; but mark the result. The unfortunate minister having
taken a by-path, to escape observation, found himself, when still a good way from home, under
the necessity of leaping over a ditch, which intercepted him, in passing from one field to
another. He jumped; but surely no jump was ever taken so completely in, or, at least into,
the dark as this. The concussion given to his person in descending caused the helmet to become
a hood; the pot slipped down over his face, and resting with the rim upon his neck, stuck fast
there; enclosing his whole head as completely as ever that of a new born child was enclosed
by the filmy bag, with which nature, as an indication of future good fortune, sometimes invests
the noddles of her favourite offspring. What was worst of all, the nose, which had permitted
the pot to slip down over it, withstood every desperate attempt, on the part of its proprietor,
to make it slip back again; the contracted part, or neck, of the patera, being of such a peculiar
formation as to cling fast to the base of the nose, although it had found no difficulty in
gliding along its hypothenuse. Was ever minister in a worse plight? Was there ever contretemps
so unlucky? Did ever any man--did ever any minister, so effectually hoodwink himself, or so
thoroughly shut his eyes, to the plain light of nature? What was to be done? The place was
lonely; the way difficult and dangerous; human relief was remote, almost beyond reach. It was
impossible even to cry for help; or, if a cry could be uttered, it might reach, in deafening
reverberation, the ear of the utterer, but it would not travel twelve inches farther in any
direction. To add to the distresses of the case, the unhappy sufferer soon found great difficulty
in breathing. What with the heat occasioned by the beating of the sun on the metal, and what
with the frequent return of the same heated air to his lungs, he was in the utmost danger of
suffocation. Every thing considered, it seemed likely that, if he did not chance to be relieved
by some accidental wayfarer, there would soon be death in the pot.

The instinctive love of life, however, is omni-prevalent; and even very stupid people have
been found, when put to the push by strong and imminent peril, to exhibit a degree of presence
of mind, and exert a degree of energy, far above what might have been expected from them, or
what they were ever known to exhibit, or exert, under ordinary circumstances. So it was with
the pot-ensconced minister. Pressed by the urgency of his distresses, he fortunately recollected
that there was a smith's shop at the distance of about a mile across the fields, where, if
he could reach it before the period of suffocation, he might possibly find relief. Deprived
of his eyesight, he acted only as a man of feeling, and went on as cautiously as he could,
with his hat in his hand. Half crawling, half sliding, over ridge and furrow, ditch and hedge,
somewhat like Satan floundering over chaos, the unhappy minister travelled with all possible
speed, as nearly as he could guess, in the direction of the place of refuge. I leave it to
the reader to conceive the surprise, the mirth, the infinite amusement of the smith, and all
the hangers-on of the smiddy, when, at length, torn and worn, faint and exhausted, blind and
breathless, the unfortunate man arrived at the place, and let them know (rather by signs than
by words) the circumstances of his case. In the words of an old Scottish song,

  "Out cam the gudeman, and high he shouted;
  Out cam the gudewife, and low she louted;
  And a' the town neighbours were gathered about it:
        And there was he, I trow."

The merriment of the company, however, soon gave way to considerations of humanity. Ludicrous
as was the minister, with such an object where his head should have been, and with the feet
of the pot pointing upwards, like the horns of the great Enemy, it was, nevertheless, necessary
that he should be speedily restored to his ordinary condition, if it were for no other reason
than that he might continue to live. He was accordingly, at his own request led into the smithy,
multitudes flocking around to tender him their kindest offices, or to witness the process of
release; and, having laid down his head upon the anvil, the smith lost no time in seizing and
poising his goodly forehammer. "Will I come sair on, minister?" exclaimed the considerate man
of iron, in at the brink of the pot. "As sair as ye like," was the minister's answer; "better
a chap i' the chafts than die for want of breath." Thus permitted, the man let fall a blow,
which fortunately broke the pot in pieces, without hurting the head which it enclosed, as the
cook-maid breaks the shell of the lobster, without bruising the delicate food within. A few
minutes of the clear air, and a glass from the gudewife's bottle, restored the unfortunate
man of prayer; but, assuredly, the incident is one which will long live in the memory of the
parishioners of C----.--Chambers' Edinburgh Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUDON'S MAGAZINE OF NATURAL HISTORY.

Sundry and manifold are our obligations to this delightful Journal. From the Number (26) for
the present month we glean the following:

The Gurnard and Sprat.

Mr. J. Couch, in an interesting paper on the fishes of Cornwall, has the following notes:

"Ray observes that the word gurnard, which may be regarded as the English term, is derived
a grunnitu, from grunting like a hog. In this, however, I venture to think this eminent naturalist
mistaken. Pengurn is the ancient Cornu-British name for these fishes, and signifies hard head;
and its English translation is now sometimes given to the grey gurnard. From the Cornish word
gurn (hard), I therefore derive the name, as descriptive of the head of these species. This
is a common fish at all seasons; but in December and January it sometimes abounds to such a
degree, that, as they are not much esteemed, I have known them sold at thirty for a penny.
It keeps near the bottom commonly, at no great distance from land; but sometimes multitudes
will mount together to the surface; and move along with the first dorsal fin above the water:
they will even quit their native element, and spring to the distance of a yard; thus imitating
the flying gurnard, though not to the same extent. In summer they are found basking in the
sun, perhaps asleep, as they will at times display no signs of animation, until an attempt
is made to seize them.

"In reference to some observations by Mr. Yarrell, in the Zoological Journal, relative to the
distinction between the sprat and the young of the pilchard and herring, I can state that Cornish
fishermen term the young of both the latter fishes sprats; but, how far this should go in determining
the judgment of a naturalist will appear, when I add that I have never seen above one specimen
of the genuine sprat in Cornwall, and that was brought me by a fisherman, to be informed what
fish it was. In taking fish out of his net by night, he felt it to be neither a pilchard nor
a herring, and supposed it something rare."

       *       *       *       *       *

STRUCTURE OF BIRDS.

Birds may be said to constitute an isolated class of beings. They are distinguished by certain
characters from all other animals: their classification does not pass into any other, and cannot,
therefore, be consistently introduced into the supposed chain or gradation of natural bodies.

