Before this court of last resort the case was argued a first time in the spring of 1856. The
country had been for two years in a blaze of political excitement. Civil war was raging in
Kansas; Congress was in a turmoil of partisan discussion; a Presidential election was impending,
and the whole people were anxiously noting the varying phases of party politics. Few persons
knew there was such a thing as the Dred Scott case on the docket of the Supreme Court; but
those few appreciated the importance of the points it involved, and several distinguished lawyers
volunteered to take part in the argument.[2] Two questions were presented to the court: First,
Is Dred Scott a citizen entitled to sue? Secondly, Did his residence at Rock Island and at
Fort Snelling, under the various prohibitions of slavery existing there, work his freedom?

The Supreme Court was composed of nine justices; namely, Chief-Justice Taney and Associate
Justices McLean, Wayne, Catron, Daniel, Nelson, Grier, Curtis, and Campbell. There was at once
manifested among the judges not only a lively interest in the questions presented, but a wide
difference of views as to the manner of treating them. Consultations of the Supreme Court are
always shrouded in inviolable secrecy, but the opinions afterwards published indicate that
the political aspects of slavery, which were then convulsing the country, from the very first
found a certain sympathy and reflection in these grave judicial deliberations. The discussions
yet turned upon certain merely technical rules to be applied to the pleadings under review;
and ostensibly to give time for further examination, the case was postponed and a re-argument
ordered for the next term. It may, however, be suspected that the nearness of the Presidential
election had more to do with this postponement than did the exigencies of the law.[3]

The Presidential election came, and Mr. Buchanan was chosen. Soon after, the court met to begin
its long winter term; and about the middle of December, 1856, the Dred Scott case was once
more elaborately argued. Again occupying the attention of the court for four successive days,
as it had also done in the first hearing, the eminent counsel, after passing lightly over mere
technical subtleties, discussed very fully what was acknowledged to be the leading point in
the controversy; namely, whether Congress had power under the Constitution to prohibit slavery
in the Federal Territories, as it had done by the Missouri Compromise act and various other
laws. It was precisely the policy, or impolicy, of this and similar prohibitions which formed
the subject of contention in party politics. The question of their constitutional validity
was certain to take even a higher rank in public interest.

When after the second argument the judges took up the case in conference for decision, the
majority held that the judgment of the Missouri Federal tribunal should simply be affirmed
on its merits. In conformity to this view, Justice Nelson was instructed to prepare an opinion
to be read as the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States. Such a paper was thereupon
duly written by him, of the following import: It was a question, he thought, whether a temporary
residence in a free-State or Territory could work the emancipation of a slave. It was the exclusive
province of each State, by its Legislature or courts of justice, to determine this question
for itself. This determined, the Federal courts were bound to follow the State's decision.
The Supreme Court of Missouri had decided Dred Scott to be a slave. In two cases tried since,
the same judgment had been given. Though former decisions had been otherwise, this must now
be admitted as "the settled law of the State," which, he said, "is conclusive of the case in
this court."

This very narrow treatment of the points at issue, having to do with the mere lifeless machinery
of the law, was strikingly criticised in the dissenting opinion afterwards read by Justice
McLean, a part of which, by way of anticipation, may properly be quoted here. He denied that
it was exclusively a Missouri question.

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, pp. 555-64.

  [Sidenote] Campbell to Tyler, Samuel Tyler. "Life of Taney," pp.
  383-4.

Had the majority of the judges carried out their original intention, and announced their decision
in the form in which Justice Nelson, under their instruction, wrote it, the case of Dred Scott
would, after a passing notice, have gone to a quiet sleep under the dust of the law libraries.
A far different fate was in store for it. The nation was then being stirred to its very foundation
by the slavery agitation. The party of pro-slavery reaction was for the moment in the ascendant;
and as by an irresistible impulse, the Supreme Court of the United States was swept from its
hitherto impartial judicial moorings into the dangerous seas of polities.

  [Sidenote] Campbell to Tyler, Tyler, p. 384.

Before Judge Nelson's opinion was submitted to the judges in conference for final adoption
as the judgment of the court a movement seems to have taken place among the members, not only
to change the ground of the decision, but also greatly to enlarge the field of inquiry. It
is stated by one of the participants in that memorable transaction (Justice Campbell) that
this occurred "upon a motion of Mr. Justice Wayne, who stated that the case had created public
interest and expectation, that it had been twice argued, and that an impression existed that
the questions argued would be considered in the opinion of the court." He further says that
"the apprehension had been expressed by others of the court, that the court would not fulfill
public expectation or discharge its duties by maintaining silence upon these questions; and
my impression is, that several opinions had already been begun among the members of the court,
in which a full discussion of the case was made, before Justice Wayne made this proposal."

The exact time when this movement was begun cannot now be ascertained. The motives which prompted
it can be inferred by recalling contemporaneous political events. A great controversy divided
public opinion, whether slavery might be extended or should be restricted. The Missouri Compromise
had been repealed to make such an extension possible. The terms of that repeal were purposely
couched in ambiguous language. Whether under the Constitution slavery could be excluded from
the Federal Territories was affirmed by Northern and denied by Southern Democrats. Northern
and Southern Democrats, acting together in the Cincinnati National Convention, had ingeniously
avoided any solution of this difference.

A twofold interpretation had enabled that party to elect Mr. Buchanan, not by its own popular
strength, but by the division of its opponents. Notwithstanding its momentary success, unless
it could develop new sources of strength the party had only a precarious hold upon power. Its
majority in the Senate was waning. In Kansas free-State emigration was outstripping the South
in numbers and checkmating her in border strife. According to the existing relative growth
in sectional representation and sectional sentiment, the balance of power was slowly but steadily
passing to the North.

Out of this doubt and difficulty there was one pathway that seemed easy and certain. All the
individual utterances from the Democratic party agreed that the meaning of the words "subject
to the Constitution" was a question for the courts. This was the original compact between Northern
and Southern Democrats in caucus when Douglas consented to repeal. Douglas, shorn of his prestige
by his defeat for the Presidential nomination, must accept conditions from his successful rival.
The Dred Scott case afforded the occasion for a decision. Of the nine judges on the Supreme
Bench seven were Democrats, and of these five were appointed from slave-States. A better opportunity
for the South to obtain a favorable dictum could never be expected to arise. A declaration
by the Supreme Court of the United States that under the Constitution Congress possessed no
power to prohibit slavery in the Federal Territories would by a single breath end the old and
begin a new political era. Congress was in session and the political leaders were assembled
at Washington. Political topics excluded all other conversation or thought. Politics reddened
the plains of Kansas; politics had recently desecrated the Senate chamber with a murderous
personal assault; politics contended greedily for the spoils of a new administration: politics
nursed a tacit conspiracy to nationalize slavery. The slavery sentiment ruled society, ruled
the Senate, ruled the Executive Mansion. It is not surprising that this universal influence
flowed in at the open door of the national hall of justice--that it filtered through the very
walls which surrounded the consulting-room of the Supreme Court.

  [Sidenote] Wayne, J., Opinion in the Dred Scott case, 19 Howard,
  pp. 454-5.

The judges were, after all, but men. They dined, they talked, they exchanged daily personal
and social courtesies with the political world. Curiosity, friendship, patriotism, led them
to the floors of Congress to listen to the great debates. Official ceremony called them into
the presence of the President, of legislators, of diplomats. They were feasted, flattered,
questioned, reminded of their great opportunity, tempted with the suggestion of their supreme
authority.[4] They could render their names illustrious. They could honor their States. They
could do justice to the South. They could perpetuate their party. They could settle the slavery
question. They could end sectional hatred, extinguish civil war, preserve the Union, save their
country. Advanced age, physical feebleness, party bias, the political ardor of the youngest
and the satiety of the eldest, all conspired to draw them under the insidious influence of
such considerations. One of the judges in official language frankly avowed the motive and object
of the majority of the court. This language betrays the confusion of ideas and misconception
of authority which tempted the judges beyond their proper duty. Required only to decide a question
of private rights, they thrust themselves forward to sit as umpires in a quarrel of parties
and factions.

  [Sidenote] Campbell to Tyler, Tyler, p. 384.

  [Sidenote] Nelson to Tyler, Tyler, p. 385.

In an evil hour they yielded to the demands of "public interest," and resolved to "fulfill
public expectation." Justice Wayne "proposed that the Chief-Justice should write an opinion
on all of the questions as the opinion of the court. This was assented to, some reserving to
themselves to qualify their assent as the opinion might require. Others of the court proposed
to have no question, save one, discussed." The extraordinary proceeding was calculated to touch
the pride of Justice Nelson. He appears to have given it a kind of sullen acquiescence. "I
was not present," he wrote, "when the majority decided to change the ground of the decision,
and assigned the preparation of the opinion to the Chief-Justice; and when advised of the change
I simply gave notice that I should read the opinion I had prepared as my own, and which is
the one on file." From this time the pens of other judges were busy, and in the inner political
circles of Washington the case of Dred Scott gradually became a shadowy and portentous cause
célèbre.

The first intimation which the public at large had of the coming new dictum was given in Mr.
Buchanan's inaugural. The fact that he did not contemplate such an announcement until after
his arrival in Washington[5] leads to the inference that it was prompted from high quarters.
In Congressional and popular discussions the question of the moment was at what period in the
growth of a Territory its voters might exclude or establish slavery.

The popular acquiescence being thus invoked by the Presidential voice and example, the court
announced its decision two days afterwards--March 6, 1857. The essential character of the transaction
impressed itself upon the very form of the judgment, if indeed it may be called at all by that
name. Chief-Justice Taney read the opinion of the court. Justices Nelson, Wayne, Daniel, Grier,
Catron, and Campbell each read a separate and individual opinion, agreeing with the Chief-Justice
on some points, and omitting or disagreeing on others, or arriving at the same result by different
reasoning, and in the same manner differing one from another. The two remaining associate justices,
McLean and Curtis, read emphatic dissenting opinions. Thus the collective utterance of the
bench resembled the speeches of a town meeting rather than the decision of a court, and employed
240 printed pages of learned legal disquisition to order the simple dismissal of a suit. The
opinion read by Chief-Justice Taney was long and elaborate, and the following were among its
leading conclusions:

That the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States do not include
nor refer to negroes otherwise than as property; that they cannot become citizens of the United
States nor sue in the Federal courts. That Dred Scott's claim to freedom by reason of his residence
in Illinois was a Missouri question, which Missouri law had decided against him. That the Circuit
Court of the United States had no jurisdiction in the case and could give no judgment in it,
and must be directed to dismiss the suit.

This remarkable decision challenged the attention of the whole people to a degree never before
excited by any act of their courts of law. Multiplied editions were at once printed,[6] scattered
broadcast over the land, read with the greatest avidity, and earnestly criticised.

The public sentiment regarding it immediately divided, generally on existing party lines--the
South and the Democrats accepting and commending, the North and the Republicans spurning and
condemning it. The great anti-slavery public was not slow in making a practical application
of its dogmas: that a sweeping and revolutionary exposition of the Constitution had been attempted
when confessedly the case and question had no right to be in court; that an evident partisan
dictum of national judges had been built on an avowed partisan decision of State judges; that
both the legislative and judicial authority of the nation had been trifled with; that the settler's
"sovereignty" in Kansas consisted only of a Southern planter's right to bring his slaves there;
and that if under the "property" theory the Constitution carries slavery to the Territories,
it would by the same inevitable logic carry it into free-States.

But much more offensive to the Northern mind than his conclusions of law were the language
and historical assertions by which Chief-Justice Taney strove to justify them.

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, p. 407.

Quoting the provisions of several early slave codes, he continued:

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 409.

Referring to the phrase in the Declaration of Independence, which asserts that all men are
created equal, he remarked:

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, p. 410.

He then applied the facts thus assumed as follows:

  [Sidenote] Ibid., pp. 425-6.

This cold and pitiless historical delineation of the bondage, ignorance, and degradation of
the unfortunate kidnaped Africans and their descendants in a by-gone century, as an immutable
basis of constitutional interpretation, was met by loud and indignant protest from the North.
The people and press of that section seized upon the salient phrase of the statement, and applying
it in the present tense, accused the Chief-Justice with saying that "a negro has no rights
which a white man is bound to respect." This was certainly a distortion of his exact words
and meaning; yet the exaggeration was more than half excusable, in view of the literal and
unbending rigor with which he proclaimed the constitutional disability of the entire African
race in the United States, and denied their birthright in the Declaration of Independence.
His unmerciful logic made the black before the law less than a slave; it reduced him to the
status of a horse or dog, a bale of dry-goods or a block of stone. Against such a debasement
of any living image of the Divine Maker the resentment of the public conscience of the North
was quick and unsparing.

Had Chief-Justice Taney's delineation been historically correct, it would have been nevertheless
unwise and unchristian to embody it in the form of a disqualifying legal sentence and an indelible
political brand. But its manifest untruth was clearly shown by Justice Curtis in his dissenting
opinion. He reminded the Chief-Justice that at the adoption of the Constitution:

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, p. 582.

Elsewhere in the same opinion he said:

  [Sidenote] Ibid., pp. 574-5.

Justice McLean, in his dissenting opinion, completed the outline of the true historical picture
in accurate language:

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, pp. 537-8.

To the constitutional theory advanced by the Chief-Justice, that Congress cannot exercise sovereign
powers over Federal Territories, and hence cannot exclude slave property from them, Justices
McLean and Curtis also opposed a vigorous and exhaustive argument, which the most eminent lawyers
and statesmen of that day deemed conclusive. The historical precedents alone ought to have
determined the issue.

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, p. 619.

---------- [1] The declaration in the case of Dred Scott vs. John F.A. Sandford was filed in
the clerk's office of the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Missouri on
the second day of November, 1853. The trespass complained of is alleged to have occurred on
the first day of January, 1853.--Manuscript Records of the Supreme Court of the United States.

[2] At the first hearing Montgomery Blair argued the case for Dred Scott, and Senator Geyer,
of Missouri, and ex-Attorney-General Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, for the claimant. At the
second hearing Mr. Blair and George Ticknor Curtis, of Boston, argued the case on behalf of
Dred Scott, and Mr. Greyer and Mr. Johnson again made the argument for the claimant. All of
them performed the service without compensation.

[3] "The court will not decide the question of the Missouri Compromise line--a majority of
the judges being of opinion that it is not necessary to do so. (This is confidential.) The
one engrossing subject in both Houses of Congress and with all the members is the Presidency;
and upon this everything done and omitted, except the most ordinary necessities of the country,
depends."--[Letter of Justice Curtis to Mr. Ticknor, April 8, 1856. G.T. Curtis, "Life of B.R.
Curtis," Vol. I., p. 180.]

[4] A striking example may be found in the utterance of Attorney-General Caleb Cushing, of
the retiring Pierce Administration, in a little parting address to the Supreme Court, March
4, 1857:

    "Yours is not the gauntleted hand of the soldier, nor yours the
    voice which commands armies, rules cabinets, or leads senates; but
    though you are none of these, yet you are backed by all of them.
    Theirs is the external power which sustains your moral authority;
    you are the incarnate mind of the political body of the nation. In
    the complex institutions of our country you are the pivot point
    upon which the rights and liberties of all, government and people
    alike, turn; or, rather, you are the central light of constitutional
    wisdom around which they perpetually revolve. Long may this court
    retain the confidence of our country as the great conservators,
    not of the private peace only, but of the sanctity and integrity
    of the Constitution."--"National Intelligencer," March 5, 1857.

[5] "Mr. Buchanan was also preparing his inaugural address with his usual care and painstaking,
and I copied his drafts and recopied them until he had prepared it to his satisfaction. It
underwent no alteration after he went to the National Hotel in Washington, except that he there
inserted a clause in regard to the question then pending in the Supreme Court, as one that
would dispose of a vexed and dangerous topic by the highest judicial authority of the land."--Statement
of James Buchanan Henry (President Buchanan's private secretary) in the "Life of James Buchanan,"
by George Ticknor Curtis, Vol. II., p. 187.

[6] "It may not be improper for me here to add that so great an interest did I take in that
decision, and in its principles being sustained and understood in the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
that I took the trouble at my own cost to print or have printed a large edition of that decision
to scatter it over the State; and unless the mails have miscarried, there is scarcely a member
elected to the Legislature who has not received a copy with my frank."--Vice-president Breckinridge,
Frankfort Speech, December, 1859.

CHAPTER V

DOUGLAS AND LINCOLN ON DRED SCOTT

Manifestly, when the educated intellects of the learned judges differed so radically concerning
the principles of law and the facts of history applicable to the Dred Scott question, the public
at large could hardly be expected to receive the new dogmas without similar divergence of opinion.
So far from exercising a healing influence, the decision widened immensely the already serious
breach between the North and the South. The persons immediately involved in the litigation
were quickly lost sight of;[1] but the constitutional principle affirmed by the court was defended
by the South and denounced by the North with zeal and acrimony. The Republican party did not
further question or propose to disturb the final judgment in the case; but it declared that
the Dred Scott doctrines of the Supreme Court should not be made a rule of political action,
and precisely this the South, together with the bulk of the Northern Democrats, insisted should
be done.

  [Sidenote] 19 Howard, pp. 460-1.

A single phase of the controversy will serve to illustrate the general drift of the discussion
throughout the Union. Some three months after the delivery of the opinion of the court, Senator
Douglas found himself again among his constituents in Illinois, and although there was no political
campaign in progress, current events and the roused state of public feeling seemed to require
that he should define his views in a public speech. It marks his acuteness as a politician
that he already realized what a fatal stab the Dred Scott decision had given his vaunted principle
of "Popular Sovereignty," with which he justified his famous repeal of the Missouri Compromise.
He had ever since argued that Congressional prohibition of slavery was obsolete and useless,
and that the choice of slavery or freedom ought to be confided to the local Territorial laws,
just as it was confided to local State constitutions. But the Dred Scott decision announced
that slaves were property which Congress could not exclude from the Territories, adding also
the inevitable conclusion that what Congress could not do a Territorial Legislature could not.

Difficult as this made his task of reconciling his favorite theory with the Dred Scott decision,
such was his political boldness, and such had been his skill and success in sophistry, that
he undertook even this hopeless effort. Douglas, therefore, made a speech at Springfield, Illinois,
on the 12th of June, 1857, in which he broadly and fully indorsed and commended the opinion
of Chief-Justice Taney and his concurring associates, declaring that "Their judicial decisions
will stand in all future time, a proud monument to their greatness, the admiration of the good
and wise, and a rebuke to the partisans of faction and lawless violence. If unfortunately any
considerable portion of the people of the United States shall so far forget their obligations
to society as to allow the partisan leaders to array them in violent resistance to the final
decision of the highest judicial tribunal on earth, it will become the duty of all the friends
of order and constitutional government, without reference to past political differences, to
organize themselves and marshal their forces under the glorious banner of the Union, in vindication
of the Constitution and supremacy of the laws over the advocates of faction and the champions
of violence."

Proceeding then with a statement of the case, he continued: "The material and controlling points
in the case, those which have been made the subject of unmeasured abuse and denunciation, may
be thus stated: 1st. The court decided that under the Constitution of the United States, a
negro descended from slave parents is not and cannot be a citizen of the United States. 2d.
That the act of March 6, 1820, commonly called the Missouri Compromise act, was unconstitutional
and void before it was repealed by the Nebraska act, and consequently did not and could not
have the legal effect of extinguishing a master's right to his slave in that Territory.

It is scarcely possible that Douglas convinced himself by such a
glaring non sequitur; but he had no other alternative. It was a
desperate expedient to shield himself as well as he might from the
damaging recoil of his own temporizing statesmanship. The declaration
made thus early is worthy of historical notice as being the substance
and groundwork of the speaker's famous "Freeport doctrine," or theory
of "unfriendly legislation," to which Lincoln's searching interrogatories
drove him in the great Lincoln-Douglas debates of the following year.
Repeated and amplified at that time, it became in the eyes of the South
the unpardonable political heresy which lost him the Presidential
nomination and caused the rupture of the Democratic National
Convention at Charleston in the summer of 1860. For the moment, however,
 the sophism doubtless satisfied his many warm partisans. He did not
dwell on the dangerous point, but trusted for oratorical effect rather
to his renewed appeals to the popular prejudice against the blacks, so
strong in central Illinois, indorsing and emphasizing Chief-Justice
Taney's assertion that negroes were not included in the words of the
Declaration of Independence, and arguing that if the principle of
equality were admitted and carried out to its logical results, it
would necessarily lead not only to the abolition of slavery in the
slave-States, but to the general amalgamation of the two races.

The Republican party of Illinois had been greatly encouraged and strengthened by its success
in electing the State officers in the previous autumn; and as their recognized leader and champion,
Lincoln made a reply to this speech some two weeks later, June 26, 1857, also at Springfield.
Though embracing other topics, the question of the hour, the Dred Scott decision, was nevertheless
its chief subject.

---------- [1] The ownership of Dred Scott and his family passed by inheritance to the family
of a Massachusetts Republican member of Congress. The following telegram, copied from the "Providence
Post" into the "Washington Union," shows the action of the new owner: "St. Louis, May 26 [1857].
Dred Scott with his wife and two daughters were emancipated to-day by Taylor Blow, Esq. They
had been conveyed to him by Mr. Chaffee for that purpose."

CHAPTER VI

THE LECOMPTON CONSTITUTION

The year 1857 brings us to a decided change in the affairs of Kansas, but with occurrences
no less remarkable. Active civil war gradually ceased in the preceding autumn--a result due
to the vigorous and impartial administration of Governor Geary and the arrival of the inclement
winter weather.

  [Sidenote] Geary to Marcy, Jan. 19, 1857.

On the evening of the day the Legislature met (January 12, 1857), the pro-slavery party held
a large political convention, in which it was confessed that they were in a hopeless minority
in the Territory, and the general conclusion was reached that it was no longer worth while
to attempt to form a slave-State in Kansas.[1] Many of its hitherto active leaders immediately
and definitely abandoned the struggle. But the Missouri cabal, intrenched in the various territorial
and county offices, held to their design, though their labors now assumed a somewhat different
character. They denounced Governor Geary in their resolutions, and devised legislation to further
their intrigues. By the middle of February, under their inspiration, a bill providing for a
convention to frame a State constitution was perfected and enacted. The Governor immediately
sent the Legislature his message, reminding them that the leading idea of the organic act was
to leave the actual bonâ fide inhabitants of the Territory "perfectly free to form and regulate
their domestic institutions in their own way," and vetoing the bill because "the Legislature
has failed to make any provision to submit the constitution when framed to the consideration
of the people for their ratification or rejection." The Governor's argument was wasted on the
predetermined legislators. They promptly passed the act over his veto.

The cabal was in no mood to be thwarted, and under a show of outward toleration, if not respect,
their deep hostility found such means of making itself felt that the Governor began to receive
insult from street ruffians, and to become apprehensive for his personal safety. In such a
contest he was single-handed against the whole pro-slavery town of Lecompton. The foundation
of his authority was gradually sapped; and finding himself no longer sustained at Washington,
where the private appeals and denunciations of the cabal were more influential than his official
reports, he wrote his resignation on the day of Buchanan's inauguration, and a week later left
the Territory in secrecy as a fugitive. Thus, in less than three years, three successive Democratic
executives had been resisted, disgraced, and overthrown by the political conspiracy which ruled
the Territory; and Kansas had indeed become, in the phraseology of the day, "the graveyard
of governors."

The Kansas imbroglio was a political scandal of such large proportions, and so clearly threatened
a dangerous schism in the Democratic party, that the new President, Buchanan, and his new Cabinet,
proceeded to its treatment with the utmost caution. The subject was fraught with difficulties
not of easy solution. The South, to retain her political supremacy, or even her equality, needed
more slave-States to furnish additional votes in the United States Senate. To make a slave-State
of Kansas, the Missouri Compromise had been repealed, and a bogus legislature elected and supported
by the successive Missouri invasions and the guerrilla war of 1856. All these devices had,
however, confessedly failed of their object. Northern emigration and anti-slavery sentiment
were clearly in possession of Kansas, and a majority of voters stood ready upon fair occasion
to place her in the column of free-States. It had become a game on the chess-board of national
politics. The moving pieces stood in Missouri and Kansas, but the players sat in Washington.
In reality it was a double game. There was plot and under-plot. Beneath the struggle between
the free-States and the slave-States were the intrigue and deception carried on between Northern
Democrats and Southern Democrats. The Kansas-Nebraska act was a double-tongued statute, and
the Cincinnati platform a Janus-faced banner. Momentary victory was with the Southern Democrats,
for they had secured the nomination and election of President Buchanan--"a Northern man with
Southern principles."

  [Sidenote] Walker to Cass, July 15, 1857. Senate Ex. Doc. No. 8,
  1st Sess. 35th Cong. Vol. I., p. 32.

  [Sidenote] Walker to Cass, Dec. 15, 1857. Ibid., p. 122.

Determined to secure whatever prestige could be derived from high qualification and party influence,
Buchanan tendered the vacant governorship of Kansas to his intimate personal and political
friend, Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, a man of great ability and national fame, who had
been Senator and Secretary of the Treasury. Walker, realizing fully the responsibility and
danger of the trust, after repeated refusals finally accepted upon two distinct conditions:
first, that General Harney should be "put in special command in Kansas with a large body of
troops, and especially of dragoons and a battery," and retained there subject to his military
directions until the danger was over; and second, that he "should advocate the submission of
the constitution to the vote of the people for ratification or rejection."

  [Sidenote] March 7, 1856. June 25, 1856.

This latter had now become a vital point in the political game. The recent action of the Territorial
Legislature and Geary's already mentioned veto message were before the President and his Cabinet.[2]
But much more important than these moves in Kansas was the prior determination of prominent
Washington players. During the Kansas civil war and the Presidential campaign of the previous
year, by way of offset to the Topeka Constitution, both Senator Douglas and Senator Toombs
wrote and introduced in the Senate bills to enable Kansas to form a State constitution. The
first by design, and the second by accident, contained a clause to submit such constitution,
when formed, to a vote of the people. Both these bills were considered not only by the Senate
Committee on Territories, of which Douglas was chairman, but also by a caucus of Democratic
Senators.

This Toombs bill was, after modification in other respects, adopted by Douglas, and duly passed
by the Senate; but the House with an opposition majority refused its assent. All these preliminaries
were well known to the Buchanan Cabinet, and of course also to Douglas. It is fair to assume
that under such circumstances Walker's emphatic stipulation was deliberately and thoroughly
discussed. Indeed, extraordinary urging had been necessary to induce him to reconsider his
early refusals. Douglas personally joined in the solicitation. Because of the determined opposition
of his own family, Walker had promised his wife that he would not go to Kansas without her
consent; and President Buchanan was so anxious on the point that he personally called on Mrs.
Walker and persuaded her to waive her objections.[4] Under influences like these Walker finally
accepted the appointment, and the President and Cabinet acquiesced in his conditions without
reserve. He wrote his inaugural address in Washington, using the following language: "I repeat
then as my clear conviction that unless the convention submit the constitution to the vote
of the actual resident settlers, and the election be fairly and justly conducted, the constitution
will be and ought to be rejected by Congress."

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Milwaukee Speech, October 13, 1860.

He submitted this draft of his inaugural to President Buchanan, who read and approved the document
and the promise. Secretary Cass wrote his official instructions in accordance with it. On Walker's
journey West he stopped at Chicago and submitted his inaugural to Douglas, who also indorsed
his policy. The new Governor fondly believed he had removed every obstacle to success, and
every possibility of misunderstanding or disapproval by the Administration, such as had befallen
his predecessors. But President Buchanan either deceived him at the beginning, or betrayed
him in the end.

  [Sidenote] Walker, Testimony, Covode Committee Report, p. 109.

With Governor Walker there was sent a new Territorial secretary. Woodson, who had so often
abused his powers during his repeated service as acting Governor, was promoted to a more lucrative
post to create the vacancy. Frederick P. Stanton, of Tennessee, formerly a representative in
Congress, a man of talent and, as the event proved, also a man of courage, was made secretary.
Both Walker and Stanton being from slave-States, it may be presumed that the slavery question
was considered safe in their hands. Walker, indeed, entertained sentiments more valuable to
the South in this conjuncture. He believed in the balance of power; he preferred that the people
of Kansas should make it a slave-State; he was "in favor of maintaining the equilibrium of
the Government by giving the South a majority in the Senate, while the North would always necessarily
have a majority in the House of Representatives." Both also entered on their mission with the
feelings entertained by the President and Democratic party; namely, that the free-State men
were a mischievous insurrectionary faction, willfully disturbing the peace and defying the
laws. Gradually, however, their personal observation convinced them that this view was a profound
error.

  [Sidenote] Walker to Buchanan, June 28, 1857. Ibid., p. 115.

  [Sidenote] Walker, Testimony. Ibid., p. 107. I., p. 11.

Governor Walker arrived in the Territory late in May, and it required but short investigation
to satisfy him that any idea of making Kansas a slave-State was utterly preposterous. Had everything
else been propitious, climate alone seemed to render it impossible. But popular sentiment was
also overwhelmingly against it; he estimated that the voters were for a free-State more than
two to one. All the efforts of the pro-slavery party to form a slave-State seemed to be finally
abandoned. If he could not make Kansas a slave-State, his next desire was to make her a Democratic
State. "And the only plan to accomplish this was to unite the free-State Democrats with the
pro-slavery party, and all those whom I regarded as conservative men, against the more violent
portion of the Republicans." He, therefore, sought by fair words to induce the free-State men
to take part in the election of delegates to the constitutional convention. His inaugural address,
quoting the President's instructions, promised that such election should be free from fraud
and violence; that the delegates should be protected in their deliberations; and that if unsatisfactory,
"you may by a subsequent vote defeat the ratification of the constitution."

  [Sidenote] Walker, Topeka Speech, June 6, 1857, in "Washington
  Union" of June 27, 1857.

This same policy was a few weeks later urged at Topeka, where a mass meeting of the free-State
men was called to support and instruct another sitting of the "insurrectionary" free-State
Legislature elected under the Topeka Constitution. The Governor found a large assemblage, and
a very earnest discussion in progress, whether the "Legislature" should pursue only nominal
action, such as would in substance amount to a petition for redress of grievances, or whether
they should actually organize their State government, and pass a complete code of laws. The
moderate free-State men favored the former, the violent and radical the latter, course. When
their mass meeting adjourned, they called on the Governor at his lodgings; he made a speech,
in which he renewed the counsels and promises of his inaugural address. "The Legislature,"
said he, "has called a convention to assemble in September next. That constitution they will
or they will not submit to the vote of a majority of the then actual resident settlers of Kansas.
If they do not submit it, I will join you, fellow-citizens, in lawful opposition to their course.
And I cannot doubt, gentlemen, that one much higher than I, the Chief Magistrate of the Union,
will join you in that opposition." His invitation to them to participate in the election of
a convention produced no effect; they still adhered to their resolve to have nothing to do
with any affirmative proceedings under the bogus laws or Territorial Legislature. But the Governor's
promise of a fair vote on the constitution was received with favor. "Although this mass convention,"
reports the Governor, "did not adopt fully my advice to abandon the whole Topeka movement,
yet they did vote down by a large majority the resolutions prepared by the more violent of
their own party in favor of a complete State organization and the adoption of a code of State
laws." I., p. 27.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 29. I., p. 30.

If the Governor was gratified at this result as indicative of probable success in his official
administration, he rejoiced yet more in its significance as a favorable symptom of party politics.
"The result of the whole discussion at Topeka," he reported, "was regarded by the friends of
law and order as highly favorable to their cause, and as the commencement of a great movement
essential to success; viz., the separation of the free-State Democrats from the Republicans,
who had to some extent heretofore cooperated under the name of the free-State party." Another
party symptom gave the Governor equal, if not greater, encouragement. On the 2d and 3d of July
the "National Democratic" or pro-slavery party of the Territory met in convention at Lecompton.
The leaders were out in full force. The hopelessness of making Kansas a slave-State was once
more acknowledged, the Governor's policy indorsed, and a resolution "against the submission
of the constitution to a vote of the people was laid on the table as a test vote by forty-two
to one." The Governor began already to look upon his counsels and influence as a turning-point
in national destiny.

  [Sidenote] F.P. Stanton's Speech, Philadelphia, February 8, 1858.
  Pamphlet.

In his eagerness to reform the Democratic party of Kansas, and to strengthen the Democratic
party of the nation against the assaults and dangers of "abolitionism," the Governor was not
entirely frank; else he would at the same time have reported, what he was obliged later to
explain, that the steps taken to form a constitution from which he hoped so much were already
vitiated by such defects or frauds as to render them impossible of producing good fruit. The
Territorial law appointing the election of delegates provided for a census and a registry of
voters, to be made by county officers appointed by the Territorial Legislature. These officers
so neglected or failed to discharge their duty, that in nearly half the organized counties
of the interior no attempt whatever was made to obtain the census or registration; and in the
counties lying on the Missouri border, where the pro-slavery party was strong, the work of
both was exceedingly imperfect, and in many instances with notorious discrimination against
free-State voters. While the disfranchised counties had a comparatively sparse population,
the number of voters in them was too considerable to be justly denied their due representation.[5]
The apportionment of delegates was based upon this defective registration and census, and this
alone would have given the pro-slavery party a disproportionate power in the convention. But
at the election of delegates on the 15th of June, the free-State men, following their deliberate
purpose and hitherto unvarying practice of non-conformity to the bogus laws, abstained entirely
from voting. "The consequence was that out of the 9250 voters whose names had been registered
... there were in all about 2200 votes cast, and of these the successful candidate received 1800."

  [Sidenote] Walker to Buchanan, June 28, 1857. Report Covode
  Committee, p. 118.

"The black Republicans," reported the Governor, "would not vote, and the free-State Democrats
were kept from voting by the fear that the constitution would not be submitted by the convention,
and that by voting they committed themselves to the proceeding of the convention. But for my
inaugural, circulated by thousands, and various speeches all urging the people to vote, there
would not have been one thousand votes polled in the Territory, and the convention would have
been a disastrous failure."

But this was not the only evil. The apportionment of the members of the Territorial Legislature
to be chosen the ensuing autumn was also based upon this same defective registry and census.
Here again disproportionate power accrued to the pro-slavery party, and the free-State men
loudly charged that it was a new contrivance for the convenience of Missouri voters. Governor
Walker publicly deplored all these complications and defects; but he counseled endurance, and
constantly urged in mitigation that in the end the people should have the privilege of a fair
and direct vote upon their constitution. That promise he held aloft as a beacon-light of hope
and redress. This attitude and policy, frequently reported to Washington, was not disavowed
or discouraged by the President and Cabinet.

The Governor, however, soon found a storm brewing in another quarter. When the newspapers brought
copies of his inaugural address, his Topeka speech, and the general report of his Kansas policy
back to the Southern States, there arose an ominous chorus of protest and denunciation from
the whole tribe of fire-eating editors and politicians. What right had the Governor to intermeddle?
they indignantly demanded. What call to preach about climate, what business to urge submission
of the constitution to popular vote, or to promise his own help to defeat it if it were not
submitted; what authority to pledge the President and Administration to such a course! The
convention was sovereign, they claimed, could do what it pleased, and no thanks to the Governor
for his impertinent advice. The Democratic State Convention of Georgia took the matter in hand,
and by resolution denounced Walker's inaugural address, and asked his removal from office.
The Democratic State Convention of Mississippi followed suit, and called the inaugural address
an unjust discrimination against the rights of the South, and a dictatorial intermeddling with
the high public duty intrusted to the convention.

Walker wrote a private letter to Buchanan, defending his course, and adding: "Unless I am thoroughly
and cordially sustained by the Administration here, I cannot control the convention, and we
shall have anarchy and civil war. With that cordial support the convention (a majority of whose
delegates I have already seen) will do what is right. I shall travel over the whole Territory,
make speeches, rouse the people in favor of my plan, and see all the delegates. But your cordial
support is indispensable, and I never would have come here, unless assured by you of the cordial
coöperation of all the Federal officers.... The extremists are trying your nerves and mine,
but what can they say when the convention submits the constitution to the people and the vote
is given by them? The strictures of the Georgia and Mississippi Conventions will then pass
away and be speedily forgotten. In regard to Georgia, our news from that State is becoming
better every day; we have not yet had time to hear much from Mississippi. Should you answer
the resolution of the latter, I would advise you to make the great principle of the submission
of the constitution to the bonâ fide residents of Kansas conspicuously prominent. On this you
will be irresistible."[7]

The delegates to the constitutional convention, chosen in June, met according to law at Lecompton,
September 7, and, having spent five days in organization, adjourned their session to October
19. The object of this recess was to await the issue of the general election of October 5,
at which a full Territorial Legislature, a delegate to Congress, and various county officers
were to be chosen.

  [Sidenote] Wilder, p. 133.

By the action of the free-State men this election was now made a turning-point in Kansas politics.
Held together as a compact party by their peaceful resistance to the bogus laws, emigration
from the North had so strengthened their numbers that they clearly formed a majority of the
people of the Territory. A self-constituted and self-regulated election held by them for sundry
officials under their Topeka Constitution, revealed a numerical strength of more than seven
thousand voters. Feeling that this advantage justified them in receding from their attitude
of non-conformity, they met in convention towards the end of August, and while protesting against
the "wicked apportionment," resolved that "whereas Governor Walker has repeatedly pledged himself
that the people of Kansas should have a full and fair vote, before impartial judges, at the
election to be held on the first Monday in October, ... we the people of Kansas, in mass convention
assembled, agree to participate in said election."

  [Sidenote] Oct. 5, 1857.

Governor Walker executed his public promises to the letter. A movement of United States troops
to Utah was in progress, and about two thousand of these were detained by order until after
election day. Stationed at ten or twelve different points in the Territory, they served by
their mere presence to overawe disorder, and for the first time in the history of Kansas the
two opposing parties measured their strength at the ballot-box. The result was an overwhelming
triumph for the free-State party. For delegate in Congress, Ransom, the Democratic candidate,
received 3799 votes; Parrott, the Republican candidate, 7888--a free-State majority of 4089.
For the Legislature, even under the defective apportionment, the council stood 9 free-State
members to 4 Democrats, and the House 24 free-State members to 15 Democrats.

  [Sidenote] Stanton, Speech at Philadelphia, February 8, 1858. I., p. 103.

  [Sidenote] Walker, Proclamation, Oct. 22, 1857. Ibid., pp. 104-6. I., p. 104.

That the pro-slavery cabal would permit power to slip from their grasp without some extraordinary
effort was scarcely to be expected. When the official returns were brought from the various
voting-places to the Governor's office, there came from Oxford, a single precinct in Johnson
County, "a roll of paper, forty or fifty feet long, containing names as thickly as they could
be written," and a large part of which were afterwards discovered to have been literally copied
from an old Cincinnati directory. This paper purported to be a return of 1628 votes for the
eleven pro-slavery candidates for the Legislature in that district, and if counted it would
elect eight members of the House and three of the council by a trifling majority, and thereby
change the political complexion and power of the Legislature. Inspection showed the document
to be an attempt to commit a stupendous fraud; and after visiting the locality ("a village
with six houses, including stores, and without a tavern") and satisfying himself of the impossibility
of such a vote from such a place, Governor Walker rejected the whole return from Oxford precinct
for informality, and gave certificates of election to the free-State candidates elected as
appeared by the other regular returns. A similar paper from McGee County with more than 1200
names was treated in like manner. Judge Cato issued his writ of mandamus to compel the Governor
to give certificates to the pro-slavery candidates, but without success. The language of Governor
Walker and Secretary Stanton in a proclamation announcing their action deserves remembrance
and imitation. "The consideration that our own party by this decision will lose the majority
in the legislative assembly does not make our duty in the premises less solemn and imperative.
The elective franchise would be utterly valueless, and free government itself would receive
a deadly blow, if so great an outrage as this could be shielded under the cover of mere forms
and technicalities. We cannot consent in any manner to give the sanction of our respective
official positions to such a transaction. Nor can we feel justified to relieve ourselves of
the proper responsibility of our offices, in a case where there is no valid return, by submitting
the question to the legislative assembly, and in that very act giving the parties that might
claim to be chosen by this spurious vote the power to decide upon their own election."

The decisive free-State victory, the Oxford and McGee frauds,[8] and the Governor's fearless
action in exposing and rejecting them, called forth universal comment; and under the new political
conditions which they revealed, created intense interest in the further proceedings of the
Lecompton Constitutional Convention. That body reassembled according to adjournment on the
19th of October. Elected in the preceding June without any participation by free-State voters,
the members were all of the pro-slavery party, and were presided over by John Calhoun, the
same man who, as county surveyor of Sangamon County, Illinois, employed Abraham Lincoln as
his deputy in 1832.

At the June election, while he and his seven colleagues from Douglas County were yet candidates
for the convention, they had circulated a written pledge that they would submit the constitution
to the people for ratification. This attitude was generally maintained by them till the October
election. But when by that vote they saw their faction overwhelmed with defeat, they and others
undertook to maintain themselves in power by an unprecedented piece of political jugglery.
Calhoun, who was surveyor-general of the Territory, employed a large number of subordinates,
and was one of the most able and unscrupulous leaders in the pro-slavery cabal. A large majority
of the convention favored the establishment of slavery; only the question of a popular vote
on ratification or rejection excited controversy.

An analysis shows that the principle of delegated authority had become attenuated to a remarkable
degree. The defective registration excluded a considerable number (estimated at about one-sixth)
of the legal voters. Of the 9250 registered, only about 2200 voted, all told. Of these 2200,
only about 1800 votes were given for the successful candidates for delegate. Of the whole sixty
delegates alleged to have been chosen, "but forty-three," says a Committee Report, "participated
in the work of the convention. Sessions were held without a quorum, and the yeas and nays often
show that but few above thirty were present. It is understood, and not denied, that but twenty-eight
of these--less than half of a full house of sixty--decided the pro-slavery or free-State question;
and upon the question of submission of their work to the will of the people, the pro-slavery
party carried the point by a majority of two votes only. It is quite in keeping with the character
of this body and its officers to find the journal of its proceedings for the last days missing."[9]

Their allotted task was completed in a short session of about three weeks; the convention adjourned
November 7, forty-three of the fifty delegates present having been induced to sign the constitution.
When the document was published the whole country was amazed to see what perversity and ingenuity
had been employed to thwart the unmistakable popular will. Essentially a slave-State constitution
of the most pronounced type, containing the declaration that the right of property in slaves
is "before and higher than any constitutional sanction," it made the right to vote upon it
depend on the one hand on a test oath to "support this constitution" in order to repel conscientious
free-State voters, and on the other hand on mere inhabitancy on the day of election to attract
nomadic Missourians; it postponed the right to amend or alter for a period of seven years;
it kept the then existing territorial laws in force until abrogated by State legislation; it
adopted the late Oxford fraud as a basis of apportionment; it gave to Calhoun, the presiding
officer, power to designate the precincts, the judges of election, and to decide finally upon
the returns in the vote upon it, besides many other questionable or inadmissible provisions.
Finally the form of submission to popular vote to be taken on the 21st of December was prescribed
to be, "constitution with slavery" or "constitution with no slavery," thus compelling the adoption
of the constitution in any event.

  [Sidenote] Walker, Testimony, Report Covode Committee, p. 110.

  [Sidenote] Martin, Testimony, Report Covode Committee, p. 159.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., pp. 170-1.

There is a personal and political mystery underlying this transaction which history will probably
never solve. Only a few points of information have come to light, and they serve to embarrass
rather than aid the solution. The first is that Calhoun, although the friend and protégé of
Douglas, and also himself personally pledged to submission, came to the Governor and urged
him to join in the new programme as to slavery,--alleging that the Administration had changed
its policy, and now favored this plan,--and tempted Walker with a prospect of the Presidency
if he would concur. Walker declared such a change impossible, and indignantly spurned the proposal.
The second is that one Martin, a department clerk, was, after confidential instructions from
Secretary Thompson and Secretary Cobb, of Buchanan's Cabinet, sent to Kansas in October, ostensibly
on department business; that he spent his time in the lobby and the secret caucuses of the
convention. Martin testifies that these Cabinet members favored submission, but that Thompson
wished it understood that he was unwilling to oppose the admission of Kansas "if a pro-slavery
constitution should be made and sent directly to Congress by the convention." A wink was as
good as a nod with that body, or rather with the cabal which controlled it; and after a virtuous
dumb-show of opposition, it made a pretense of yielding to the inevitable, and acted on the
official suggestion. This theory is the more plausible because Martin testifies further that
he himself drafted the slavery provision which was finally adopted. The third point is that
the President inexcusably abandoned his pledges to the Governor and adopted this Cobb-Thompson-Calhoun
contrivance, instead of keeping his word and dismissing Calhoun, as honor dictated. This course
becomes especially remarkable in view of the fact that the change did not occur until after
Walker's rejection of the fraudulent Oxford returns, which action placed the legislative power
of the Territory in the hands of the newly elected free-State Legislature, as already related.
On the same day (October 22, 1857) on which Walker and Stanton issued their proclamation rejecting
the fraudulent returns, President Buchanan wrote another highly commendatory letter to Governor
Walker. As it has never before been published, its full text will have special historical interest.

    WASHINGTON CITY,
    22d October, 1857.

    MY DEAR SIR: I have received your favor of the tenth instant by
    Captain Pleasonton and am rejoiced to learn from you, what I had
    previously learned from other less authentic sources, that the
    convention of Kansas will submit the constitution to the people.
    It is highly gratifying that the late election passed off so
    peacefully; and I think we may now fairly anticipate a happy
    conclusion to all the difficulties in that Territory. Your
    application for a month's leave of absence has been granted to
    commence after the adjournment of the convention. During its
    session your presence will be too important to be dispensed with.
    I shall be glad to see you before you publish anything. The whole
    affair is now gliding along smoothly. Indeed, the revulsion in the
    business of the country seems to have driven all thoughts of
    "bleeding Kansas" from the public mind. When and in what manner
    anything shall be published to revive the feeling, is a question
    of serious importance. I am persuaded that with every passing day
    the public are more and more disposed to do you justice. You
    certainly do injustice to Harris, the editor of the "Union." In
    the beginning I paid some attention to the course of the paper in
    regard to yourself, and I think it was unexceptionable: I know he
    stood firm amidst a shower of abuse from the extremists. I never
    saw nor did I ever hear of the communication published in the
    "Union" to which you refer, and Harris has no recollection of it.
    I requested him to find me the number and send it to me; but this
    he has not done. He is not responsible in any degree for the
    non-publication of the letters to which you refer.[10] I knew
    nothing of them until after the receipt of yours; and upon inquiry
    I found their publication had been prevented by Mr. Cobb under a
    firm conviction that they would injure both yourself and the
    Administration.

    Whether he judged wisely or not I cannot say, for I never saw
    them. That he acted in fairness and friendship I have not a doubt.
    He was anxious that General Whitfield should publish a letter and
    prepared one for him, expecting he would sign it before he left.
    He sent this letter after him for his approval and signature; but
    it has not been returned. I know not what are its contents.
    General W. doubtless has the letter in his possession. Beyond all
    question, the motives of Mr. Cobb were proper. Mrs. Walker and
    Mrs. Bache have just left me after a half hour's very agreeable
    conversation. Mrs. Walker desires me to inform you the family are
    all well and sends her love.

    From your friend, very respectfully,

    JAMES BUCHANAN.

    Hon. ROBERT J. WALKER.[11]

  [Sidenote] Report Covode Committee, p. 111.

The question naturally occurs, for whom did Calhoun speak when he approached Governor Walker,
offering him the bribe of the Presidency and assuring him that the Administration had changed
its mind? That was before, or certainly not long after, the probable receipt of this letter
in Kansas, for the Governor left the Territory (November 16) about one week after the adjournment
of the Lecompton Convention. The question becomes still more pressing owing to Governor Walker's
testimony that when he reached Washington, "the President himself distinctly and emphatically
assured me that he had not authorized anybody to say that he had approved of that [Lecompton]
programme." On whose authority, then, did Calhoun declare that the Administration had changed
its mind?

  [Sidenote] John Bell, Senate Speech, March 18, 1858.

This query brings us to another point in President Buchanan's letter of October 22, in which
he mentions that Secretary Cobb, of his Cabinet, had without his knowledge suppressed the publication
of certain letters in the "Washington Union." These were, as we learn elsewhere, the letters
in which some of the Kansas pro-slavery leaders repeated their declaration of the hopelessness
of any further contest to make Kansas a slave-State. Why this secret suppression by Secretary
Cobb? There is but one plausible explanation of this whole chain of contradictions. The conclusion
is almost forced upon us that a Cabinet intrigue, of which the President was kept in ignorance,
was being carried on, under the very eyes of Mr. Buchanan, by those whom he himself significantly
calls "the extremists"--a plot to supersede his own intentions and make him falsify his own
declarations. As in the case of similar intrigues by the same agents a few years later, he
had neither the wit to perceive nor the will to resist.

  [Sidenote] Stanton, Philadelphia Speech, Feb. 8, 1858.

The protest of the people of the Territory against the extraordinary action of the Lecompton
Convention almost amounted to a popular revolt. This action opened a wide door to fraud, and
invited Missouri over to an invasion of final and permanent conquest. Governor Walker had quitted
the Territory on his leave of absence, and Secretary Stanton was acting Governor. "The people
in great masses," he says, "and the Legislature that had been elected, with almost a unanimous
voice called upon me to convene the Legislature, in order that they might take such steps as
they could to counteract the misfortune which they conceived was about to befall them in the
adoption of this constitution," As already stated, Stanton had come to Kansas with the current
Democratic prejudices against the free-State party. But his whole course had been frank, sincere,
and studiously impartial, and the Oxford fraud had completely opened his eyes. "I now discovered
for the first time to my entire satisfaction why it was that the great mass of the people of
the Territory had been dissatisfied with their government, and were ready to rebel and throw
it off."

Having, like Walker, frequently and earnestly assured the people of their ultimate right to
ratify or reject the work of the convention, he was personally humiliated by the unfairness
and trickery of which that body was guilty. Under the circumstances he could not hesitate in
his duty. By proclamation he convened the new Legislature in extra session.

The members respected the private pledge they had given him to engage in no general legislation;
but provided by law for an investigation of the Oxford and McGee frauds, and for an election
to be held on January 4, 1858 (the day fixed by the Lecompton Constitution for the election
of State officers and a State legislature), at which the people might vote for the Lecompton
Constitution or against it. Thus in the course of events two separate votes were taken on this
notorious document. The first, provided for in the instrument itself, took place on the 21st
of December, 1857. Detachments of troops were stationed at several points; the free-State men
abstained from voting; the election was peaceable; and in due time Calhoun proclaimed that
6143 ballots had been cast "for the constitution with slavery," and 589 "for the constitution
with no slavery." But the subsequent legislative investigation disclosed a gross repetition
of the Oxford fraud, and proved the actual majority, in a onesided vote, to have been only
3423. The second election occurred on January 4, 1858, under authority of the legislative act.
At this election the pro-slavery party voted for the State officers, but in its turn abstained
from voting on the constitution, the result being--against the Lecompton Constitution, 10,226;
for the Lecompton Constitution with slavery, 138; for the Lecompton Constitution without slavery,
24.[12]

This emphatic rejection of the Lecompton Constitution by a direct vote of the people of Kansas
sealed its fate. We shall see further on what persistent but abortive efforts were made in
Congress once more to galvanize it into life. The free-State party were jubilant; but the pro-slavery
cabal, foiled and checked, was not yet dismayed or conquered. For now there was developed,
for the first time in its full proportions, the giant pro-slavery intrigue which proved that
the local conspiracy of the Atchison-Missouri cabal was but the image and fraction of a national
combination, finding its headquarters in the Administration, first of President Pierce, and
now of President Buchanan; working patiently and insidiously through successive efforts to
bring about a practical subversion of the whole theory and policy of the American Government.
It linked the action of Border Ruffians, presidential aspirants, senates, courts, and cabinets
into efficient coöperation; leading up, step by step, from the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
through the Nebraska bill, border conquest, the Dred Scott decision, the suppression of the
submission clause in the Toombs bill, and the extraordinary manipulation and machinery of the
Lecompton Constitution, towards the final overthrow of the doctrine that "all men are created
equal," and the substitution of the dogma of property in man; towards the judicial construction
that property rights in human beings are before and above constitutional sanction, and that
slavery must find protection and perpetuity in States as well as in Territories. I., pp. 112-13.

  [Sidenote] Cass to Stanton, December 8, 1857. Ibid., p. 113. I., p. 120.

The first weather-sign came from Washington. On the day after Acting Governor Stanton convened
the October Legislature in special session, and before news of the event reached him, Secretary
Cass transmitted to him advance copies of the President's annual message, in which the Lecompton
Constitution was indorsed in unqualified terms. A week later he was admonished to conform to
the views of the President in his official conduct. At this point the State Department became
informed of what had taken place, and the acting Governor had short shrift. On December 11
Cass wrote to J.W. Denver, Esq.: "You have already been informed that Mr. Stanton has been
removed from the office of Secretary of the Territory of Kansas and that you have been appointed
in his place." Cass further explained that the President "was surprised to learn that the secretary
and acting Governor had, on the 1st of December, issued his proclamation for a special session
of the Territorial Legislature on the 7th instant, only a few weeks in advance of its regular
time of meeting, and only fourteen days before the decision was to be made on the question
submitted by the convention. This course of Mr. Stanton, the President seriously believes,
has thrown a new element of discord among the excited people of Kansas, and is directly at
war, therefore, with the peaceful policy of the Administration. For this reason he has felt
it his duty to remove him."

Walker, already in Washington on leave of absence, could no longer remain silent. He was as
pointedly abandoned and disgraced by the Administration as was his subordinate. In a dignified
letter justifying his own course, which, he reminded them, had never been criticized or disavowed,
he resigned the governorship. "From the events occurring in Kansas as well as here," he wrote,
"it is evident that the question is passing from theories into practice; and that as governor
of Kansas I should be compelled to carry out new instructions, differing on a vital question
from those received at the date of my appointment. Such instructions I could not execute consistently
with my views of the Federal Constitution, of the Kansas and Nebraska bill, or with my pledges
to the people of Kansas." "The idea entertained by some that I should see the Federal Constitution
and the Kansas-Nebraska bill overthrown and disregarded, and that, playing the part of a mute
in a pantomime of ruin, I should acquiesce by my silence in such a result, especially where
such acquiescence involved, as an immediate consequence, a disastrous and sanguinary civil
war, seems to me most preposterous."[13]

The conduct and the language of Walker and Stanton bear a remarkable significance when we remember
that they had been citizens of slave States and zealous Democratic partisans, and that only
hard practical experience and the testimony of their own eyes had forced them to join their
predecessors in the political "graveyard." "The ghosts on the banks of the Styx," said Seward,
"constitute a cloud scarcely more dense than the spirits of the departed Governors of Kansas,
wandering in exile and sorrow for having certified the truth against falsehood in regard to
the elections between Freedom and Slavery in Kansas."

---------- [1] January 12, 1857, Wilder, p. 113. Bell, Speech in Senate, March 18, 1858. Appendix
"Globe," p. 137.

[3] Bigler, Senate Speech, Dec. 9, 1857. "Globe," p. 21. See also Bigler, Dec. 21, 1857. "Globe,"
p. 113.

[4] Walker, Testimony before the Covode Committee. Reports of Committees H.R. 1st Sess. 36th
Cong. Vol. V., pp. 105-6.

[7] Buchanan to Walker, July 12, 1857. Report Covode Committee, p. 112.

[8] The ingenuity which evolved 1600 Kansas votes from an old Cincinnati directory and 1200
more from an uninhabited county, was not exhausted by that prodigious labor. The same influences,
and perhaps the same manipulators, produced a companion piece known by the name of the "candle-box
fraud." At the election of January 4, 1858, for officers under the Lecompton Constitution,
the returns from Delaware Agency underwent such suspicious handling that an investigating commission
of the Legislature, by aid of a search-warrant, found them secreted in a candle-box buried
under a woodpile near Calhoun's "surveyor-general's office" at Lecompton. A forged list of
379 votes had been substituted for the original memorandum of only forty-three votes which
had been cut from the certificate of the judges; the votes on the forged list being intended
for the pro-slavery candidates. During the investigation Calhoun was arrested, but liberated
by Judge Cato on habeas corpus, after which he immediately went to Missouri, and from there
to Washington. The details and testimony are found in House Com. Reports, 1st Sess. 35th Cong.
Vol. III, Report No. 377.

[9] Minority Report, Select Com. of Fifteen. Report No. 377, page 109, Vol. III., H.R. Reports,
1st Sess. 35th Cong.

This "missing link," no less than the remaining portion of the journal printed in the proceedings
of the investigating committee, is itself strong circumstantial proof of the imposture underlying
the whole transaction. Many sections of the completed constitution are not even mentioned in
the journal; it does not contain the submission clause of the schedule, and the authenticity
of the document rests upon the signature and the certificate of John Calhoun without other
verification.

[10] "Dr. Tebbs and General Whitfield a month since left very strong letters for publication
with the editor of the 'Union' which he promised to publish. His breach of this promise is
a gross outrage. If not published immediately our success in convention materially depends
on my getting an immediate copy at Lecompton. My friends here all regard now the 'Union' as
an enemy and encouraging by its neutrality the fire-eaters not to submit the constitution.
Very well, the facts are so clear that I can get along without the 'Union,' but he had no right
to suppress Dr. Tebbs's letter. I shall in due time expose that transaction."--Extract from
a letter of Robert J. Walker to James Buchanan, dated October, 1857.

[11] For this autograph letter and other interesting manuscripts, we are indebted to General
Duncan S. Walker, a son of the Governor, now residing in Washington, D.C.

[12] Under an Act of Congress popularly known as the "English Bill," this same Lecompton Constitution
was once more voted upon by the people of Kansas on August 2, 1858, with the following result:
for the proposition, 1788; against it, 11,300.--Wilder, "Annals of Kansas," pp. 186-8.

CHAPTER VII

THE REVOLT OF DOUGLAS

The language of President Buchanan's annual message, the summary dismissal of Acting Governor
Stanton, and the resignation of Governor Walker abruptly transferred the whole Lecompton question
from Kansas to Washington; and even before the people of the Territory had practically decided
it by the respective popular votes of December 21,1857, and January 4,1858, it had become the
dominant political issue in the Thirty-fifth Congress, which convened on December 7, 1857.
The attitude of Senator Douglas on the new question claimed universal attention. The Dred Scott
decision, affirming constitutional sanction and inviolability for slave property in Territories,
had rudely damaged his theory. But we have seen how in his Springfield speech he ingeniously
sought to repair and rehabilitate "popular sovereignty" by the sophism that a master's abstract
constitutional right to slave property in a Territory was a "barren and a worthless right unless
sustained, protected, and enforced by appropriate police regulations," which could only be
supplied by the local Territorial Legislatures; and that the people of Kansas thus still possessed
the power of indirect prohibition.

  [Sidenote] 1857.

To invent and utter this sophism for home consumption among his distant constituents on the
12th of June (a few days before the Lecompton delegates were elected), and in so unobtrusive
a manner as scarcely to attract a ripple of public notice, was a light task compared with that
which confronted him as Senator, at the meeting of Congress in December, in the light of John
Calhoun's doings and powers, of the scandal of the Oxford fraud, and of the indignation of
Northern Democrats against the betrayal of Walker and Stanton.

One of his first experiences was a personal quarrel with Buchanan. When he reached Washington,
three days before the session, he went to the President to protest against his adopting the
Lecompton Constitution and sending it to Congress for acceptance. Buchanan insisted that he
must recommend it in his annual message. Douglas replied that he would denounce it as soon
as it was read.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Milwaukee Speech, October 13, 1860.

"Mr. President," retorted Douglas, "I wish you to remember that General Jackson is dead."

In the election of Mr. Buchanan as President the South had secured a most important ally for
the work of pro-slavery reaction. Trained in the belief that the South had hitherto been wronged,
he was ready on every occasion to appear as her champion for redress; and Southern politicians
were now eager to use his leadership to make their views of public policy and constitutional
duty acceptable to the North. Respectable in capacity but feeble in will, he easily submitted
to control and guidance from a few Southern leaders of superior intellectual force. In his
inaugural, he sought to prepare public opinion for obedience to the Dred Scott decision, and
since its publication he had undertaken to interpret its scope and effect.

  [Sidenote] 1857.

But when that convention adjourned, and made known its cunningly devised work, the whole South
instantly became clamorous to secure the sectional advantages which lay in its technical regularity,
its strong affirmance of the "property" theory, and the extraordinary power it gave to John
Calhoun to control the election and decide the returns. This powerful reactionary movement
was not lost upon Mr. Buchanan. He reflected it as unerringly as the vane moves to the change
of the wind. Long before the meeting of Congress, the Administration organ, the "Washington
Union," heralded and strongly supported the new departure. When, on the 8th of December, the
President's annual message was transmitted and read, the Lecompton Constitution, as framed
and submitted, was therein warmly indorsed and its acceptance indicated as the future Administration
policy.

  [Sidenote] Buchanan, Annual Message, December 8, 1857.

The language of this message discloses with what subtle ingenuity words, phrases, definitions,
ideas, and theories were being invented and plied to broaden and secure every conquest of the
pro-slavery reaction. An elaborate argument was made to defend the enormities of the Lecompton
Constitution. The doctrine of the Silliman letter, that "slavery exists in Kansas under the
Constitution of the United States," was assumed as a conceded theory. "In emerging from the
condition of territorial dependence into that of a sovereign State," the people might vote
"whether this important domestic institution should or should not continue to exist." "Domestic
institutions" was defined to mean slavery. "Free to form and regulate their domestic institutions"--the
phrase employed in the Kansas-Nebraska act--was construed to mean a vote to continue or discontinue
slavery. And "if any portion of the inhabitants shall refuse to vote, a fair opportunity to
do so having been presented, ... they alone will be responsible for the consequences."

However blind Buchanan might be to the fact that this extreme interpretation shocked and alarmed
the sentiment of the North; that if made before the late Presidential campaign it would have
defeated his own election; and that if rudely persisted in, it might destroy the Democratic
ascendency in the future, the danger was obvious and immediately vital to Douglas. His senatorial
term was about to expire. To secure a reelection he must carry the State of Illinois in 1858,
which had on an issue less pronounced than this defeated his colleague Shields in 1854, and
his lieutenant Richardson in 1856. But more than this, his own personal honor was as much involved
in his pledges to the voters of Illinois as had been that of Governor Walker to the voters
of Kansas. His double-dealing caucus bargain had thus placed him between two fires--party disgrace
at Washington and popular disgrace in Illinois. In such a dilemma his choice could not be doubtful.
At all risk he must endeavor to sustain himself at home.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Senate Speech, December 9, 1857. "Globe," p. 18.

He met the encounter with his usual adroitness and boldness. Assuming that the President had
made no express recommendation, he devoted his speech mainly to a strong argument of party
expediency, repelling without reserve and denouncing without stint the work of the Lecompton
Convention. Abandon that great principle and the party is not worth saving, and cannot be saved
after it shall be violated. I trust we are not to be rushed upon this question. Why shall it
be done? Who is to be benefited? Is the South to be the gainer? Is the North to be the gainer?
Neither the North nor the South has the right to gain a sectional advantage by trickery or
fraud.... But I am told on all sides, 'Oh! just wait; the pro-slavery clause will be voted
down.' That does not obviate any of my objections; it does not diminish any of them. You have
no more right to force a free-State constitution on Kansas than a slave-State constitution.

President Buchanan and the strong pro-slavery faction which was directing his course paid no
attention whatever to this proposal of a compromise. Shylock had come into court to demand
his bond, and would heed no pleas of equity or appeals to grace. The elections of December
21 and January 4 were held in due time, and with what result we have already seen. John Calhoun
counted the votes on January 13 and declared the "Lecompton Constitution with slavery" adopted,
prudently reserving, however, any announcement concerning the State officers or Legislature
under it. This much accomplished, he hurried away to Washington, where he was received with
open arms by the President and his advisers, who at once proceeded with a united and formidable
effort to legalize the transparent farce by Congressional sanction.

On the second day of February, 1858, President Buchanan transmitted to Congress the Lecompton
Constitution, "received from J. Calhoun, Esq.," and "duly certified by himself." The President's
accompanying special message argues that the organic law of the Territory conferred the essential
rights of an enabling act; that the free-State party stood in the attitude of willful and chronic
revolution; that their various refusals to vote were a sufficient bar to complaint and objection;
that the several steps in the creation and work of the Lecompton Convention were regular and legal.

  [Sidenote] 1858. His own inconsistency was
lightly glossed over.

In the light of subsequent history this extreme pro-slavery programme was not only wrong in
morals and statesmanship, but short-sighted and foolhardy as a party policy. But to the eyes
of President Buchanan this latter view was not so plain. The country was apparently in the
full tide of a pro-slavery reaction. He had not only been elected President, but the Democratic
party had also recovered its control of Congress. The presiding officer of each branch was
a Southerner. Out of 64 members of the Senate, 39 were Democrats, 20 Republicans, and five
Americans or Know-Nothings. Of the 237 members of the House, 131 were Democrats, 92 Republicans,
and 14 Americans. Here was a clear majority of fourteen in the upper and twenty-five in the
lower House. This was indeed no longer the formidable legislative power which repealed the
Missouri Compromise, but it seemed perhaps a sufficient force to carry out the President's
recommendation. His error was in forgetting that this apparent popular indorsement was secured
to him and his party by means of the double construction placed upon the Nebraska bill and
the Cincinnati platform, by the caucus bargain between the leaders of the South and the leaders
of the North. The moment had come when this unnatural alliance needed to be exposed and in
part repudiated.

The haste with which the Southern leaders advanced step by step, forced every issue, and were
now pushing their allies to the wall was, to say the least, bad management, but it grew logically
out of their situation. They were swimming against the stream. The leading forces of civilization,
population, wealth, commerce, intelligence, were bearing them down. The balance of power was
lost. Already there were sixteen free-States to fifteen slave-States. Minnesota and Oregon,
inevitably destined also to become free, were applying for admission to the Union.

  [Sidenote] Official Manifesto, Oct. 8, 1754.

  [Sidenote] Senator Brown to Adams, June 18, 1856. Greeley, "Am.
  Conflict," Vol. I., p. 278.

  [Sidenote] Official proceedings, Pamphlet.

Still, the case of the South was not hopeless. Kansas was apparently within their grasp. Existing
law provided for the formation and admission of four additional States to be carved out of
Texas, which would certainly become slave-States. Then there remained the possible division
of California, and a race for the possession of New Mexico and Arizona. Behind all, or, more
likely, before all except Kansas, in the order of desired events, was the darling ambition
of President Buchanan, the annexation of Cuba. As United States Minister to England he had
publicly declared that if Spain refused to sell us that coveted island we should be justified
in wresting it from her by force; as Presidential candidate he had confidentially avowed, amid
the first blushes of his new honor, "If I can be instrumental in settling the slavery question
upon the terms I have mentioned, and then add Cuba to the Union, I shall, if President, be
willing to give up the ghost, and let Breckinridge take the government." Thus, even excluding
the more problematical chances which lay hidden in filibustering enterprises, there was a possibility,
easily demonstrable to the sanguine, that a decade or two might change mere numerical preponderance
from the free to the slave-States. Nor could this possibility be waved aside by any affectation
of incredulity. Not alone Mr. Buchanan but the whole Democratic party was publicly pledged
to annexation. "Resolved," said the Cincinnati platform, "that the Democratic party will expect
of the next Administration that every proper effort be made to insure our ascendency in the
Gulf of Mexico"; while another resolution declaring sympathy with efforts to "regenerate" Central
America was no less significant.

But to accomplish such marvels, they must not sit with folded hands. The price of slavery was
fearless aggression. They must build on a deeper foundation than Presidential elections, party
majorities, or even than votes in the Senate. The theory of the government must be reversed,
the philosophy of the republic interpreted anew. In this subtler effort they had made notable
progress. By the Kansas-Nebraska act they had paralyzed the legislation of half a century.
By the Dred Scott decision they had changed the Constitution and blighted the Declaration of
Independence. By the Lecompton trick they would show that in conflict with their dogmas the
public will was vicious, and in conflict with their intrigues the majority powerless. They
had the President, the Cabinet, the Senate, the House, the Supreme Court, and, by no means
least in the immediate problem, John Calhoun with his technical investiture of far-reaching
authority. The country had recovered from the shock of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
and rewarded them with Buchanan. Would it not equally recover from the shock of the Lecompton
Constitution?

It was precisely at this point that the bent bow broke. The great bulk of the Democratic party
followed the President and his Southern advisers, even in this extreme step; but to a minority
sufficient to turn the scale the Lecompton scandal had become too offensive for further tolerance.

In the Senate, with its heavy Democratic majority, the Administration easily secured the passage
of a bill to admit Kansas with the Lecompton Constitution. Out of eleven Democratic Senators
from free States, only three--Douglas of Illinois, Broderick of California, and Stuart of Michigan--took
courage to speak and vote against the measure. In the House of Representatives, however, with
a narrower margin of political power, the scheme, after an exciting discussion running through
about two months, met a decisive defeat. A formidable popular opposition to it had developed
itself in the North, in which speeches and letters from Governor Walker and Secretary Stanton
in denunciation of it were a leading feature and a powerful influence. The lower House of Congress
always responds quickly to currents of public sentiment; but in this case it caught direction
all the more promptly because its members were to be chosen anew in the ensuing autumn. However
much they might have party subordination and success at heart, some of them felt that they
could not defend before their anti-slavery constituencies the Oxford frauds, the Calhoun dictatorship,
the theory that slave property is above constitutional sanction, and the dogma that "Kansas
is therefore at this moment as much a slave-State as Georgia or South Carolina." When the test
vote was taken on April 1, out of the 53 Democratic representatives from the free-States 31
voted for Lecompton; but the remaining 22,[2] joining their strength to the opposition, passed
a substitute, originating with Mr. Crittenden of the Senate, which in substance directed a
resubmission of the Lecompton Constitution to the people of Kansas;--if adopted, the President
to admit the new State by a simple proclamation; if rejected, the people to call a convention
and frame a new instrument.

As the October vote had been the turning-point in the local popular struggle in the Territory,
this adoption of the Crittenden-Montgomery substitute, by a total vote of 120 to 112 in the
House of Representatives, was the culmination of the National intrigue to secure Kansas for
the South. It was a narrow victory for freedom; a change of 5 votes would have passed the Lecompton
bill and admitted the State with slavery, and a constitutional prohibition against any change
for seven years to come. With his authority to control election returns, there is every reason
to suppose that Calhoun would have set up a pro-slavery State Legislature, to choose two pro-slavery
senators, whom in its turn the strong Lecompton majority in the United States Senate would
have admitted to seats; and thus the whole chain of fraud and usurpation back to the first
Border-Ruffian invasion of Kansas would have become complete, legal, and irrevocable, on plea
of mere formal and technical regularity.

Foiled in its main object, the Administration made another effort which served to break somewhat
the force and humiliation of its first and signal defeat. The two Houses of Congress having
disagreed as stated, and each having once more voted to adhere to its own action, the President
managed to make enough converts among the anti-Lecompton Democrats of the House to secure the
appointment of a committee of conference. This committee devised what became popularly known
as the "English bill," a measure which tendered a land grant to the new State, and provided
that on the following August 3d the people of Kansas might vote "proposition accepted" or "proposition
rejected." Acceptance should work the admission of the State with the Lecompton Constitution,
while rejection should postpone any admission until her population reached the ratio of representation
required for a member of the House. "Hence it will be argued," exclaimed Douglas, "in one portion
of the Union that this is a submission of the constitution, and in another portion that it
is not." The English bill became a law; but the people of Kansas once more voted to reject
the "proposition" by nearly ten thousand majority.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Senate Speech, March 22, 1858. App. "Globe,"
  pp. 199, 200.

Douglas opposed the English bill as he had done the Lecompton bill, thus maintaining his attitude
as the chief leader of the anti-Lecompton opposition. In proportion as he received encouragement
and commendation from Republican and American newspapers, he fell under the ban of the Administration
journals. The "Washington Union" especially pursued him with denunciation. He explained that
this arose from his having voted in the Senate against its editor for the office of public
printer; but he also pointed out that he did so because that journal had become pro-slavery
to the point of declaring "that the emancipation acts of New York, of New England, of Pennsylvania,
and of New Jersey were unconstitutional, were outrages upon the right of property, were violations
of the Constitution of the United States." "The proposition is advanced," continued he, "that
a Southern man has a right to move from South Carolina with his negroes into Illinois, to settle
there and hold them there as slaves, anything in the constitution and laws of Illinois to the
contrary notwithstanding." Douglas further intimated broadly that the President and Cabinet
were inspiring these editorials of the Administration organ, as part and parcel of the same
system and object with which they were pushing the Lecompton Constitution with its odious "property"
doctrine; and declared, "if my protest against this interpolation into the policy of this country
or the creed of the Democratic party is to bring me under the ban, I am ready to meet the issue."

He had not long to wait for the issue. The party rupture was radical, not superficial. It was,
as he had himself pointed out, part of the contest for national supremacy between slavery and
freedom. From time to time he still held out the olive-branch and pointed wistfully to the
path of reconciliation. But the reactionary faction which ruled Mr. Buchanan never forgave
Douglas for his part in defeating Lecompton, and more especially for what they alleged to be
his treachery to his caucus bargain, in refusing to accept and defend all the logical consequences
of the Dred Scott decision. I., p. 74.

[2] From California, 1; Illinois, 5; Indiana, 3; New Jersey, 1; New York, 2; Ohio, 6; Pennsylvania,
4. For Lecompton: California, 1; Connecticut, 2; Indiana, 3; New Jersey, 2; New York, 10; Ohio,
2; Pennsylvania, 11.

CHAPTER VIII

THE LINCOLN-DOUGLAS DEBATES

The anti-Lecompton recusancy of Douglas baffled the plotting extremists of the South, and created
additional dissension in the Democratic ranks; and this growing Democratic weakness and the
increasing Republican ardor and strength presaged a possible Republican success in the coming
Presidential election. While this condition of things gave national politics an unusual interest,
the State of Illinois now became the field of a local contest which for the moment held the
attention of the entire country in such a degree as to involve and even eclipse national issues.

In this local contest in Illinois, the choice of candidates on both sides was determined long
beforehand by a popular feeling, stronger and more unerring than ordinary individual or caucus
intrigues. Douglas, as author of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, as a formidable Presidential
aspirant, and now again as leader of the anti-Lecompton Democrats, could, of course, have no
rival in his party for his own Senatorial seat. Lincoln, who had in 1854 gracefully yielded
his justly won Senatorial honors to Trumbull, and who alone bearded Douglas in his own State
throughout the whole anti-Nebraska struggle, with anything like a show of equal political courage
and intellectual strength, was as inevitably the leader and choice of the Republicans. The
proceedings of the convention had consumed the afternoon, and an adjournment was taken. At
8 o'clock that same evening, the convention having reassembled in the State-house, Lincoln
appeared before it, and made what was perhaps the most carefully prepared speech of his whole
life. Every word of it was written, every sentence had been tested; but the speaker delivered
it without manuscript or notes. It was not an ordinary oration, but, in the main, an argument,
as sententious and axiomatic as if made to a bench of jurists. Its opening sentences contained
a political prophecy which not only became the ground-work of the campaign, but heralded one
of the world's great historical events. He said:

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 1.

Then followed his demonstration, through the incidents of the Nebraska legislation, the Dred
Scott decision, and present political theories and issues, which would by and by find embodiment
in new laws and future legal doctrines. The repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the language
of the Nebraska bill, which declared slavery "subject to the Constitution," the Dred Scott
decision, which declared that "subject to the Constitution" neither Congress nor a Territorial
Legislature could exclude slavery from a Territory--the argument presented point by point and
step by step with legal precision the silent subversion of cherished principles of liberty.

  [Sidenote] See O.J. Hollister, "Life of Colfax," pp. 119-22.

  [Sidenote] J. Watson Webb to Bates, June 9, 1858. MS.

Lincoln's declaration that the cause of slavery restriction "must be intrusted to its own undoubted
friends" had something more than a general meaning. We have seen that while Douglas avowed
he did not care "whether slavery was voted down or voted up" in the Territories, he had opposed
the Lecompton Constitution on the ground of its non-submission to popular vote, and that this
opposition caused the Buchanan Democrats to treat him as an apostate. Many earnest Republicans
were moved to strong sympathy for Douglas in this attitude, partly for his help in defeating
the Lecompton iniquity, partly because they believed his action in this particular a prelude
to further political repentance, partly out of that chivalric generosity of human nature which
sides with the weak against the strong. In the hour of his trial and danger many wishes for
his successful reëlection came to him from Republicans of national prominence. Greeley, in
the New York "Tribune" as well as in private letters, made no concealment of such a desire.
Burlingame, in a fervid speech in the House of Representatives, called upon the young men of
the country to stand by the Douglas men. It was known that Colfax and other influential members
of the House were holding confidential interviews with Douglas, the object of which it was
not difficult to guess. There were even rumors that Seward intended to interfere in his behalf.
This report was bruited about so industriously that he felt it necessary to permit a personal
friend to write an emphatic denial, so that it might come to Lincoln's knowledge. On the other
hand, newspapers ventured the suggestion that Lincoln might retaliate by a combination against
Seward's Presidential aspirations.

  [Sidenote] Wentworth to Lincoln, April 19, 1858. MS.

Rival politicians in Illinois were suspicious of each other, and did not hesitate to communicate
their suspicions to Lincoln. Personal friends, of course, kept him well informed about these
various political under-currents, and an interesting letter of his shows that he received and
treated the matter with liberal charity. "I have never said or thought more," wrote he, "as
to the inclination of some of our Eastern Republican friends to favor Douglas, than I expressed
in your hearing on the evening of the 21st April, at the State Library in this place. I have
believed--do believe now--that Greeley, for instance, would be rather pleased to see Douglas
reëlected over me or any other Republican; and yet I do not believe it is so because of any
secret arrangement with Douglas--it is because he thinks Douglas's superior position, reputation,
experience, and ability, if you please, would more than compensate for his lack of a pure Republican
position, and, therefore, his reëlection do the general cause of Republicanism more good than
would the election of any one of our better undistinguished pure Republicans. I do not know
how you estimate Greeley, but I consider him incapable of corruption or falsehood. He denies
that he directly is taking part in favor of Douglas, and I believe him.[1] Still his feeling
constantly manifests itself in his paper, which, being so extensively read in Illinois, is,
and will continue to be, a drag upon us. I have also thought that Governor Seward, too, feels
about as Greeley does; but not being a newspaper editor, his feeling in this respect is not
much manifested. I have no idea that he is, by conversation or by letter, urging Illinois Republicans
to vote for Douglas."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Wilson, June 1, 1858. MS.

"As to myself, let me pledge you my word that neither I nor my friends, so far as I know, have
been setting stake against Governor Seward. No combination has been made with me, or proposed
to me, in relation to the next Presidential candidate. The same thing is true in regard to
the next Governor of our State. I am not directly or indirectly committed to any one; nor has
any one made any advance to me upon the subject. I have had many free conversations with John
Wentworth; but he never dropped a remark that led me to suspect that he wishes to be Governor.
Indeed it is due to truth to say that while he has uniformly expressed himself for me, he has
never hinted at any condition. The signs are that we shall have a good convention on the 16th,
and I think our prospects generally are improving some every day. I believe we need nothing
so much as to get rid of unjust suspicions of one another."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Crittenden, July 7, 1858. Mrs. Coleman, "Life
  of Crittenden," Vol. II., p. 162.

  [Sidenote] Crittenden to Lincoln, July 29, 1858. Ibid., p. 163.

  [Sidenote] Crittenden to Dickey, August 1, 1858. Ibid., p. 164.

While many alleged defections were soon disproved by the ready and loyal avowals of his friends
in Illinois and elsewhere, there came to him a serious disappointment from a quarter whence
he little expected it. Early in the canvass Lincoln began to hear that Crittenden, of Kentucky,
favored the reëlection of Douglas, and had promised so to advise the Whigs of Illinois by a
public letter. Deeming it well-nigh incredible that a Kentucky Whig like Crittenden could take
such a part against an Illinois Whig of his own standing and service, to help a life-long opponent
of Clay and his cherished plans, Lincoln addressed him a private letter making the direct inquiry.
"I do not believe the story," he wrote, "but still it gives me some uneasiness. If such was
your inclination, I do not believe you would so express yourself. It is not in character with
you as I have always estimated you." Crittenden's reply, however, confirmed his worst fears.
He said he and Douglas had acted together to oppose Lecompton. For this Douglas had been assailed,
and he thought his reëlection was necessary to rebuke the Buchanan Administration. In addition
Crittenden also soon wrote the expected letter for publication, in which phraseology of apparent
fairness covered an urgent appeal in Douglas's behalf.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, pp. 4-5.

In the evenly balanced and sensitive condition of Illinois politics this ungracious outside
interference may be said to have insured Lincoln's defeat. While it gave him pain to be thus
wounded in the house of his friends, he yet more deeply deplored the inexcusable blunder of
leaders whose misplaced sympathy put in jeopardy the success of a vital political principle.
In his convention speech he had forcibly stated the error and danger of such a step.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln, Springfield Speech, July 17, 1858. Debates,
  p. 55.

Lincoln in nowise underrated the severity of the political contest in which he was about to
engage. He knew his opponent's strong points as well as his weak ones--his energy, his adroitness,
the blind devotion of his followers, his greater political fame.

  [Sidenote] 1858.

Douglas and his friends had indeed entered upon the canvass with an unusual flourish of trumpets.
Music, banners, salutes, fireworks, addresses, ovation, and jubilation with enthusiasm genuine
and simulated, came and went in almost uninterrupted sequence; so much of the noise and pomp
of electioneering had not been seen since the famous hard-cider campaign of Harrison. The "Little
Giant," as he was proudly nicknamed by his adherents, arrived in Illinois near midsummer, after
elaborate preparation and heralding, and made speeches successively at Chicago, Bloomington,
and Springfield on the 9th, 16th, and 17th of July. The Republicans and their candidate were
equally alert to contest every inch of ground. Mr. Lincoln made speeches in reply at Chicago
on the 10th and at Springfield on the evening of Douglas's day address; and in both instances
with such force and success as portended a fluctuating and long-continued struggle.

For the moment the presence of Douglas not only gave spirit and fresh industry to his followers,
but the novelty impressed the indifferent and the wavering. The rush of the campaign was substituting
excitement for inquiry, blare of brass bands and smoke of gunpowder for intelligent criticism.
The fame and prestige of the "Little Giant" was beginning to incline the vibrating scale. Lincoln
and his intimate political advisers were not slow to note the signs of danger; and the remedy
devised threw upon him the burden of a new responsibility. It was decided in the councils of
the Republican leaders that Lincoln should challenge Douglas to joint public debate.

The challenge was sent by Lincoln on July 24; Douglas proposed that they should meet at the
towns of Ottawa, Freeport, Jonesboro, Charleston, Galesburg, Quincy, and Alton, each speaker
alternately to open and close the discussion; Douglas to speak one hour at Ottawa, Lincoln
to reply for an hour and a half, and Douglas to make a half hour's rejoinder. In like manner
Lincoln should open and close at Freeport, and so on alternately. Lincoln's note of July 31
accepted the proposal as made. "Although by the terms," he wrote, "as you propose, you take
four openings and closes to my three, I accede and thus close the arrangement." Meanwhile each
of the speakers made independent appointments for other days and places than these seven; and
in the heat and dust of midsummer traveled and addressed the people for a period of about one
hundred days, frequently making the necessary journeys by night, and often speaking two and
sometimes even three times in a single day. Thus to the combat of intellectual skill was added
a severe ordeal of physical endurance.[2]

Lincoln entered upon the task which his party friends had devised with neither bravado nor
misgiving. He had not sought these public discussions; neither did he shrink from them. Throughout
his whole life he appears to have been singularly correct in his estimate of difficulties to
be encountered and of his own powers for overcoming them. Each of these seven meetings, comprising
both the Republican and Democratic voters of the neighboring counties, formed a vast, eager,
and attentive assemblage. It needed only the first day's experience to show the wisdom of the
Republican leaders in forcing a joint discussion upon Douglas. Face to face with his competitor,
he could no longer successfully assume airs of superiority, or wrap himself in his Senatorial
dignity and prestige. They were equal spokesmen, of equal parties, on an equal platform, while
applause and encouragement on one side balanced applause and encouragement on the other.

In a merely forensic sense, it was indeed a battle of giants. In the whole field of American
politics no man has equaled Douglas in the expedients and strategy of debate. Lacking originality
and constructive logic, he had great facility in appropriating by ingenious restatement the
thoughts and formulas of others. He could almost invert a proposition by a plausible paraphrase.
He delighted in enlarging an opponent's assertion to a forced inference ridiculous in form
and monstrous in dimensions.

Lincoln's mental equipment was of an entirely different order. His principal weapon was direct,
unswerving logic. His fairness of statement and generosity of admission had long been proverbial.
For these intellectual duels with Douglas, he possessed a power of analysis that easily outran
and circumvented the "Little Giant's" most extraordinary gymnastics of argument. But, disdaining
mere quibbles, he pursued lines of concise reasoning to maxims of constitutional law and political
morals. Douglas was always forcible in statement and bold in assertion; but Lincoln was his
superior in quaint originality, aptness of phrase, and subtlety of definition; and oftentimes
Lincoln's philosophic vision and poetical fervor raised him to flights of eloquence which were
not possible to the fiber and temper of his opponent.

It is, of course, out of the question to abridge the various Lincoln-Douglas discussions of
which the text fills a good-sized volume. Only a few points of controversy may be stated. Lincoln's
convention speech, it will be remembered, declared that in his belief the Union could not endure
permanently half slave and half free, but must become all one thing or all the other. Douglas
in his first speech of the campaign attacked this as an invitation to a war of sections, declaring
that uniformity would lead to consolidation and despotism. He charged the Republicans with
intent to abolish slavery in the States; said their opposition to the Dred Scott decision was
a desire for negro equality and amalgamation; and prescribed his dogma of popular sovereignty
as a panacea for all the ills growing out of the slavery agitation.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 75.

To this Lincoln replied that Republicans did not aim at abolition in the slave-States, but
only the exclusion of slavery from free Territories; they did not oppose the Dred Scott decision
in so far as it concerned the freedom of Dred Scott, but they refused to accept its dicta as
rules of political action.

In return he pressed upon Douglas his charge of a political conspiracy to nationalize slavery,
alleging that his "don't care" policy was but the convenient stalking-horse under cover of
which a new Dred Scott decision would make slavery lawful everywhere.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 82.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, pp. 233-4.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 56.

By no means the least interesting of the many points touched in these debates is Lincoln's
own estimate of the probable duration of slavery, or rather of the least possible period in
which "ultimate extinction" could be effected, even under the most favorable circumstances.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 157.

But the one dominating characteristic of Lincoln's speeches is their constant recurrence to
broad and enduring principles, their unremitting effort to lead public opinion to loftier and
nobler conceptions of political duty; and nothing in his career stamps him so distinctively
an American as his constant eulogy and defense of the philosophical precepts of the Declaration
of Independence. The following is one of his indictments of his political opponents on this point:

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 225.

In the joint debates, however, argument and oratory were both hampered by the inexorable limit
of time. For the full development of his thought, the speeches Lincoln made separately at other
places afforded him a freer opportunity. A quotation from his language on one of these occasions
is therefore here added, as a better illustration of his style and logic, where his sublime
theme carried him into one of his more impassioned moods:

    The Declaration of Independence was formed by the representatives
    of American liberty from thirteen States of the Confederacy,
    twelve of which were slave-holding communities. We need not
    discuss the way or the reason of their becoming slave-holding
    communities. It is sufficient for our purpose that all of them
    greatly deplored the evil and that they placed a provision in the
    Constitution which they supposed would gradually remove the
    disease by cutting off its source. This was the abolition of the
    slave trade. So general was the conviction, the public
    determination, to abolish the African slave trade, that the
    provision which I have referred to as being placed in the
    Constitution declared that it should not be abolished prior to the
    year 1808. A constitutional provision was necessary to prevent the
    people, through Congress, from putting a stop to the traffic
    immediately at the close of the war. Now if slavery had been a
    good thing, would the fathers of the republic have taken a step
    calculated to diminish its beneficent influences among themselves,
    and snatch the boon wholly from their posterity? This
    was their majestic interpretation of the economy of the Universe.
    This was their lofty, and wise, and noble understanding of the
    justice of the Creator to his creatures. Yes, gentlemen, to all
    his creatures, to the whole great family of man. They grasped not only the whole race
    of man then living, but they reached forward and seized upon the
    farthest posterity. They erected a beacon to guide their children,
    and their children's children, and the countless myriads who
    should inhabit the earth in other ages. Wise statesmen as they
    were, they knew the tendency of prosperity to breed tyrants, and
    so they established these great self-evident truths, that when in
    the distant future some man, some faction, some interest, should
    set up the doctrine that none but rich men, or none but white men,
    or none but Anglo-Saxon white men, were entitled to life, liberty,
    and the pursuit of happiness, their posterity might look up again
    to the Declaration of Independence and take courage to renew the
    battle which their fathers began, so that truth and justice and
    mercy and all the humane and Christian virtues might not be
    extinguished from the land; so that no man would hereafter dare to
    limit and circumscribe the great principles on which the temple of
    liberty was being built.

    Now, my countrymen, if you have been taught doctrines conflicting
    with the great landmarks of the Declaration of Independence; if
    you have listened to suggestions which would take away from its
    grandeur and mutilate the fair symmetry of its proportions; if you
    have been inclined to believe that all men are not created equal
    in those inalienable rights enumerated by our chart of liberty,
    let me entreat you to come back. Return to the fountain whose
    waters spring close by the blood of the revolution. Think nothing
    of me--take no thought for the political fate of any man
    whomsoever--but come back to the truths that are in the
    Declaration of Independence. You may do anything with me you
    choose, if you will but heed these sacred principles. You may not
    only defeat me for the Senate, but you may take me and put me to
    death. While pretending no indifference to earthly honors, I do
    claim to be actuated in this contest by something higher than an
    anxiety for office. I charge you to drop every paltry and
    insignificant thought for any man's success. It is nothing; I am
    nothing; Judge Douglas is nothing. But do not destroy that
    immortal emblem of Humanity--the Declaration of American
    Independence.[3]

---------- [1] It is interesting to compare with Lincoln's letter one from Greeley to a Chicago
editor on the same subject:

    "NEW YORK,
    "July 24, 1858.

    "MY FRIEND: You have taken your own course--don't try to throw the
    blame on others. You have repelled Douglas, who might have been
    conciliated and attached to our own side, whatever he may now
    find, it necessary to say, or do, and instead of helping us in
    other States, you have thrown a load upon us that may probably
    break us down. You knew what was the almost unanimous desire of
    the Republicans of other States; and you spurned and insulted
    them. Now go ahead and fight it through. You are in for it, and
    it does no good to make up wry faces. What I have said in the
    'Tribune' since the fight was resolved on, has been in good faith,
    intended to help you through. If Lincoln would fight up to the
    work also, you might get through--if he apologizes, and retreats,
    he is lost, and all others go down with him. His first Springfield
    speech (at the convention) was in the right key; his Chicago
    speech was bad; and I fear the new Springfield speech is worse. If
    he dare not stand on broad Republican ground, he cannot stand at
    all. That, however, is his business; he is nowise responsible
    for what I say. I shall stand on the broad anti-slavery ground,
    which I have occupied for years. I cannot change it to help your
    fight; and I should only damage you if I did. You have got your
    Elephant--you would have him--now shoulder him! He is not so very
    heavy, after all. As I seem to displease you equally when I try to
    keep you out of trouble, and when, having rushed in in spite of
    me, I try to help you in the struggle you have unwisely provoked,
    I must keep neutral, so far as may be hereafter. Yours,

    (Signed) "HORACE GREELEY.

    "J. MEDILL, Esq., Chicago, (very) Ill.

    "What have I ever said in favor of 'Negro equality' with reference
    to your fight? I recollect nothing."

The above is from a manuscript copy of Greeley's letter, but it bears internal evidence of
genuineness.

[2] "Last year in the Illinois canvass I made just 130 speeches."-- [Douglas, Wooster (O.)
Speech.] This was between July 9 and November 2, 1858, just 100 days, exclusive of Sundays.

[3] Lincoln's Lewiston Speech, August 17, 1858. Chicago "Press and Tribune."

CHAPTER IX

THE FREEPORT DOCTRINE

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, p. 68.

What has thus far been quoted has been less to illustrate the leading lines of discussion,
than to explain more fully the main historical incident of the debates. In the first joint
discussion at Ottawa, in the northern or anti-slavery part of Illinois, Douglas read a series
of strong anti-slavery resolutions which he erroneously alleged Lincoln had taken part in framing
and passing.

In preparing a powerful appeal to local prejudice, Douglas doubtless knew he was handling a
two-edged sword; but we shall see that he little appreciated the skill with which his antagonist
would wield the weapon he was placing in his hands. The caucus which framed this phraseology
agreed, as a compromise between Northern and Southern Democrats, that the courts should interpret
and define the constitutional limitations, by which all should abide. The Dred Scott decision
declared in terms that Congress could not prohibit slavery in Territories nor authorize a Territorial
Legislature to do so. The Dred Scott decision had thus annihilated "popular sovereignty," Would
Douglas admit his blunder in law, and his error in statesmanship?

He had already faced and partly evaded this dilemma in his Springfield speech of 1857, but
that was a local declaration and occurred before his Lecompton revolt, and the ingenious sophism
then put forth had attracted little notice. Since that time things had materially changed.
He had opposed Lecompton, become a party recusant, and been declared a party apostate. His
Senatorial term was closing, and he had to look to an evenly balanced if not a hostile constituency
for reëlection. The Buchanan Administration was putting forth what feeble strength it had in
Illinois to insure his defeat. His Democratic rivals were scrutinizing every word he uttered.
He stood before the people to whom he had pledged his word that the voters of Kansas might
regulate their own domestic concerns. They would tolerate no juggling nor evasion. There remained
no resource but to answer Yes, and he could conjure up no justification of such an answer except
the hollow subterfuge he had invented the year before.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Asbury, July 31, 1858.

Lincoln clearly enough comprehended the dilemma and predicted the expedient of his antagonist.
He had framed his questions and submitted them to a consultation of shrewd party friends. This
one especially was the subject of anxious deliberation and serious disagreement. Nearly a month
before, Lincoln in a private letter accurately foreshadowed Douglas's course on this question.

The remarkable theory here proposed was immediately taken up and exhaustively discussed by
the leading newspapers in all parts of the Union, and thereby became definitely known under
the terms "unfriendly legislation" and "Freeport doctrine." Mr. Lincoln effectually disposed
of it in the following fashion in the joint debate at Alton:

  [Sidenote] Lincoln-Douglas Debates, pp. 234-5.

The announcement and subsequent defense by Douglas of his "Freeport doctrine" proved, as Lincoln
had predicted, something more important than a mere campaign incident. It was the turning-point
in Douglas's political fortunes. With the whole South, and with a few prominent politicians
of the North, it served to put him outside the pale of party fellowship. Compared with this
his Lecompton revolt had been a venial offense. In that case he had merely contended for the
machinery of a fair popular vote. This was the avowal of a principle as obnoxious to the slavery
propaganda as the unqualified abolitionism of Giddings and Lovejoy. Henceforth all hope of
reconciliation, atonement, or chance of Presidential nomination by the united Democratic party
was out of the question. Before this, newspaper zealots had indeed denounced him for his Lecompton
recusancy as a traitor and renegade, and the Administration had endeavored to secure his defeat;
now, however, in addition, the party high-priests put him under solemn ban of excommunication.
How they felt and from what motives they acted is stated with singular force and frankness
in a Senate speech, soon after the Charleston Convention, by Senator Judah P. Benjamin, of
Louisiana, one of the ablest and most persistent of the conspirators to nationalize slavery,
and who, not long after, was one of the principal actors in the great rebellion:

    Up to the years 1857 and 1858 no man in this nation had a higher
    or more exalted opinion of the character, the services, and the
    political integrity of the Senator from Illinois [Douglas] than I
    had.... Sir, it has been with reluctance and sorrow that I have
    been obliged to pluck down my idol from his place on high, and to
    refuse to him any more support or confidence as a member of the
    party. I have done so, I trust, upon no light or unworthy ground.
    I have not done so alone. The causes that have operated on me have
    operated on the Democratic party of the United States, and have
    operated an effect which the whole future life of the Senator will
    be utterly unable to obliterate. It is impossible that confidence
    thus lost can be restored. On what ground has that confidence been
    forfeited, and why is it that we now refuse him our support and
    fellowship? I have stated our reasons to-day. I have appealed to
    the record. I have not followed him back in the false issue or the
    feigned traverse that he makes in relation to matters that are not
    now in contest between him and the Democratic party. The question
    is not what we all said or believed in 1850 or in 1856. How idle
    was it to search ancient precedents and accumulate old quotations
    from what Senators may have at different times said in relation to
    their principles and views. The precise point, the direct
    arraignment, the plain and explicit allegation made against the
    Senator from Illinois is not touched by him in all of his speech.

  [Sidenote] Benjamin, Senate Speech, May 22, 1860. Pamphlet.

  [Sidenote] 1858.

The Senatorial canvass in Illinois came to a close with the election on the 2d of November
and resulted in a victory for Douglas. By this plurality the Republican State officers were
chosen. But in respect to members of the Legislature the case stood differently, and when in
the following January the Senatorial election took place in joint session of the two Houses,
Douglas received the vote of every Democrat, 54 members, and Lincoln the vote of every Republican,
46 members, whereupon Douglas was declared elected Senator of the United States for six years
from the 4th of March, 1859.

The main cause of Lincoln's defeat was the unfairness of the existing apportionment, which
was based upon the census of 1850. A fair apportionment, based on the changes of population
which had occurred, would have given northern Illinois a larger representation; and it was
there the Republicans had recruited their principal strength in the recent transformation of
parties. The Republicans estimated that this circumstance caused them a loss of six to ten members.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln, Cincinnati Speech, Sept. 17, 1859. Debates,
  p. 263.

But the unusual political combinations also had a large influence on the result.

After a hundred consecutive days of excitement, of intense mental strain, and of unremitting
bodily exertion, after speech-making and parades, music and bonfires, it must be something
of a trial to face at once the mortification of defeat, the weariness of intellectual and physical
reaction, and the dull commonplace of daily routine. Letters written at this period show that
under these conditions Mr. Lincoln remained composed, patient, and hopeful. Two weeks after
election he wrote thus to Mr. Judd, a member of the Legislature and Chairman of the Republican
State Central Committee: "I have the pleasure to inform you that I am convalescing and hoping
these lines may find you in the same improving state of health. Doubtless you have suspected
for some time that I entertain a personal wish for a term in the United States Senate; and
had the suspicion taken the shape of the direct charge I think I could not have truthfully
denied it. But let the past as nothing be. For the future my view is that the fight must go
on. The returns here are not yet complete, but it is believed that Dougherty's vote will be
slightly greater than Miller's majority over Fondey. We have some 120,000 clear Republican
votes. That pile is worth keeping together. It will elect a State ticket two years hence."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Judd, Nov. 15, 1858.

"In that day I shall fight in the ranks, but shall be in no one's way for any of the places.
I am especially for Trumbull's reëlection; and, by the way, this brings me to the principal
object of this letter. Can you not take your draft of an apportionment bill and carefully revise
it till it shall be strictly and obviously just in all particulars, and then by an early and
persistent effort get enough of the enemies' men to enable you to pass it? I believe if you
and Peck make a job of it, begin early and work earnestly and quietly, you can succeed in it.
Unless something be done, Trumbull is inevitably beaten two years hence. Take this into serious
consideration."

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Nov. 16, 1858.

On the following day he received from Mr. Judd a letter informing him that the funds subscribed
for the State Central Committee did not suffice to pay all the election bills, and asking his
help to raise additional contributions.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Dr. Henry, Nov. 19, 1858. MS.

The sting of personal defeat is painful to most men, and doubtless it was so to Lincoln. Yet
he regarded the passing struggle as something more than a mere scramble for office, and drew
from it the consolation which all earnest workers feel in the consciousness of a task well done.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Asbury, November 19, 1858.

To these one other letter may be added, showing his never-failing faith in the political future.

  [Sidenote] 1858.

Douglas was also greatly exhausted by the wearing labors of the campaign; but he had the notable
triumph of an assured reëlection to the Senate and the congratulations of his enthusiastic
friends to sustain and refresh him. Being an indefatigable worker, he was already organizing
a new and more ambitious effort. Three weeks after election he started on a brief tour to the
Southern States, making speeches at Memphis and New Orleans, of which further mention will
be made in the next chapter. Perhaps he deemed it wise not to proceed immediately to Washington,
where Congress convened on the first Monday of December, and thus to avoid a direct continuance
of his battle with the Buchanan Administration. If so, the device proved ineffectual. The President
and his partisans were determined to put the author of the "Freeport doctrine" under public
ban, and to that end, when Congress organized, one of the first acts of the Senate majority
was to depose Douglas from his place as chairman of the Committee on Territories, which he
had held in that body for eleven years.

---------- [1] A local nickname by which the southern or pro-slavery portion of Illinois was
familiarly known.

[2] DOUGLAS'S QUESTIONS AND LINCOLN'S ANSWERS.

[3] LINCOLN'S QUESTIONS.

CHAPTER X

LINCOLN'S OHIO SPEECHES

When Lincoln, in opening the Senatorial campaign of Illinois, declared that the Republican
cause must be intrusted to its own undoubted friends "who do care for the result," he displayed
a much better understanding of the character and aims of his opponent than those who, not so
well informed, desired the adoption of a different course. Had the wishes of Greeley and others
prevailed, had Douglas been adopted by the Illinois Republicans, the party would have found
itself in a fatal dilemma, No sooner was the campaign closed than Douglas, having entered on
his tour through the South, began making speeches, apparently designed to pave his way to a
nomination for President by the next Democratic National Convention. Realizing that he had
lost ground by his anti-Lecomptonism, and especially by his Freeport doctrine, and having felt
in the late campaign the hostility of the Buchanan Administration, he now sought to recover
prestige by publishing more advanced opinions indirectly sustaining and defending slavery.

Hitherto he had declared he did not care whether slavery was voted down or voted up. He had
said he would not argue the question whether slavery was right or wrong. He had adopted Taney's
assertion that the negro had no share in the Declaration of Independence. He had asserted that
uniformity was impossible, but that freedom and slavery might abide together forever. But now
that the election was over and a new term in the Senate secure, he was ready to conciliate
pro-slavery opinion with stronger expressions. Hence, in a speech at Memphis, he cunningly
linked together in argument unfriendly legislation, slavery, and annexation. He said: "Whenever
a Territory has a climate, soil, and production making it the interest of the inhabitants to
encourage slave property, they will pass a slave code."

Wherever these preclude the possibility of slavery being profitable, they will not permit it.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Memphis Speech, Nov. 29, 1858. Memphis "Eagle
  and Enquirer."

Referring to annexation, he said our destiny had forced us to acquire Florida, Louisiana, Texas,
New Mexico, and California. "We have now territory enough, but how long will it be enough?
One hive is enough for one swarm of bees, but a new swarm comes next year and a new hive is
wanted." Men may say we shall never want anything more of Mexico, but the time would come when
we would be compelled to take more. Central America was half-way to California and on the direct
road. The time will come when our destiny, our institutions, our safety will compel us to have
it. "So it is," concluded he, "with the island of Cuba.... It is a matter of no consequence
whether we want it or not; we are compelled to take it, and we can't help it".

  [Sidenote] Douglas, New Orleans Speech, Dec. 6, 1858. Pamphlet. It is
on this principle that you establish those institutions of charity for
the support of the blind, or the deaf and dumb, or the insane.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Baltimore Speech, Jan. 5, 1859. Pamphlet.

Once more, in a speech at Baltimore, Douglas repeated in substance what he had said at Memphis
and New Orleans, and then in the beginning of January, 1859, he reached Washington and took
his seat in the Senate. Here he began to comprehend the action of the Democratic caucus in
deposing him from the chairmanship of the Committee on Territories. His personal influence
and prestige among the Southern leaders were gone. Neither his revived zeal for annexation,
nor his advanced views on the necessity for slave labor, restored his good-fellowship with
the extremists. Although, pursuant to a recommendation in the annual message, a measure was
then pending in the Senate to place thirty millions in the hands of President Buchanan with
which to negotiate for Cuba, the attitude of the pro-slavery faction was not one of conciliation,
but of unrelenting opposition to him.

  [Sidenote] Brown, Senate Speech, Feb. 28, 1859. "Globe," pp. 1241
  et seq.

Towards the close of the short session this feeling broke out in an open demonstration. On
February 23, while an item of the appropriation bill was under debate, Senator Brown, of Mississippi,
said he wanted the success of the Democratic party in 1860 to be a success of principles and
not of men. He neither wanted to cheat nor be cheated. Under the decision of the Supreme Court
the South would demand protection for slavery in the Territories.

Douglas met the issue, and defended his Freeport doctrine without flinching.

The discussion extended itself to other Senators; Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, Clay, of
Alabama, Mason, of Virginia, and Gwin, of California, seconded the demands and arguments of
Brown; while Pugh, of Ohio, Broderick, of California, and Stuart, of Michigan, came to the
help and defense of Douglas and non-intervention. Several Republicans drifted into the debate
on behalf of the position and principles of their party, which of course differed from those
of both Brown and Douglas. The discussion was continued to a late hour, and finally came to
an end through mere lapse of time, but not until an irreparable schism in the Democratic party
had been opened.

  [Sidenote] Douglas to Dorr, June 22, 1859. Baltimore "Sun," June
  24, 1859.

Silence upon so vital an issue could not long be maintained. In the
following June, an Iowa friend wrote to Douglas to inquire whether he
would be a candidate for the Presidential nomination at the coming
Charleston Convention. Douglas replied that party issues must first
be defined. If the Democracy adhered to their former principles,
 his friends would be at liberty to present his name.

  [Sidenote] Ray to Lincoln, July 27, 1858. MS.

We must leave the career of Douglas for a while, to follow up the personal history of Lincoln.
The peculiar attitude of national politics had in the previous year drawn the attention of
the whole country to Illinois in a remarkable degree. The Senatorial campaign was hardly opened
when a Chicago editor, whose daily examination of a large list of newspaper exchanges brought
the fact vividly under his observation, wrote to Lincoln: "You are like Byron, who woke up
one morning and found himself famous. People wish to know about you. You have sprung at once
from the position of a capital fellow, and a leading lawyer in Illinois, to a national reputation."

  [Sidenote] David Davis to Lincoln, Nov. 7, 1858. MS.

The compliment was fully warranted; the personal interest in Lincoln increased daily from the
beginning to the end of the great debates. The Freeport doctrine and its effect upon the Democratic
party gave these discussions both present significance and a growing interest for the future.
Another friend wrote him, a few days after election: "You have made a noble canvass, which,
if unavailing in this State, has earned you a national reputation, and made you friends everywhere."

  [Sidenote] Delahay to Lincoln, March 15, 1859. MS.

  [Sidenote] Dorsheimer to Chase, Sept. 12, 1859. MS.

  [Sidenote] Kasson to Lincoln, Sept. 13, 1859. MS.

  [Sidenote] Kirkpatrick to Lincoln, Sept. 15, 1859. MS.

  [Sidenote] Weed to Judd, Oct. 21, 1859. MS.

  [Sidenote] Dennison to Trumbull, July 21, 1859. MS.

That this was not the mere flattery of partial friends became manifest to him by other indications;
by an increased correspondence filled with general commendation, and particularly by numerous
invitations to deliver speeches in other States. The Republican Central Committee of New Hampshire
wrote him that if Douglas came, as was expected, to that State, they desired Lincoln to come
and answer him. The Central Committee of Minnesota wished him to come there and assist in their
canvass. There was an incessant commotion in politics throughout the whole North, and as the
season advanced calls came from all quarters. Kansas wanted him; Buffalo, Des Moines, Pittsburgh
wanted him; Thurlow Weed telegraphed: "Send Abraham Lincoln to Albany immediately." Not only
his presence, but his arguments, and ideas, were in demand. Dennison, making the canvass for
Governor of Ohio, asked for a report of his debates for campaign "material."

That men in all parts of the Union were thus turning to him for help and counsel was due, not
alone to the publicity and credit he had gained in his debates with Douglas in the previous
year; it grew quite as much out of the fact that by his sagacity and courage he had made himself
the safest, as well as the most available, rallying-point of the Republican party and exponent
of Republican doctrine. The Lecompton quarrel in the Democratic party had led many prominent
Republicans on a false trail. In Douglas's new attitude, developed by his Southern speeches
and his claim to readmission into regular Democratic fellowship, these leaders found themselves
at fault, discredited by their own course. Lincoln, on the contrary, not only held aloft the
most aggressive Republican banner, but stood nearest the common party enemy, and was able to
offer advice to all the elements of the Republican party, free from any suspicion of intrigue
with foe or faction. The causes of his Senatorial defeat thus gave him a certain party authority
and leadership, which were felt if not openly acknowledged. On his part, while never officious
or obtrusive, he was always ready with seasonable and judicious suggestions, generous in spirit
and comprehensive in scope, and which looked beyond mere local success.

Thus he wrote from Springfield to Schuyler Colfax (afterwards Vice-President of the United
States), July 6, 1859: "I much regret not seeing you while you were here among us. Before learning
that you were to be at Jacksonville on the 4th, I had given my word to be at another place.
Besides a strong desire to make your personal acquaintance, I was anxious to speak with you
on politics a little more fully than I can well do in a letter. What is desirable, if possible,
is that in every local convocation of Republicans a point should be made to avoid everything
which will disturb Republicans elsewhere. Massachusetts Republicans should have looked beyond
their noses, and then they could not have failed to see that tilting against foreigners would
ruin us in the whole Northwest. New Hampshire and Ohio should forbear tilting against the fugitive-slave
law in such way as to utterly overwhelm us in Illinois with the charge of enmity to the Constitution
itself. Kansas, in her confidence that she can be saved to freedom on 'squatter sovereignty,'
ought not to forget that to prevent the spread and nationalization of slavery is a national
concern, and must be attended to by the nation. In a word, in every locality we should look
beyond our noses; and at least say nothing on points where it is probable we shall disagree.
I write this for your eye only; hoping, however, if you see danger as I think I do, you will
do what you can to avert it. Could not suggestions be made to leading men in the State and
Congressional conventions, and so avoid, to some extent at least, these apples of discord."[1]

  [Sidenote] Colfax to Lincoln, July 14, 1859. MS.

By this time Colfax was cured of his late coquetting with Douglas, and he replied: "The suggestions
you make have occurred to me.... Nothing is more evident than that there is an ample number
of voters in the Northern States, opposed to the extension and aggressions of slavery and to
Democratic misrule, to triumphantly elect a President of the United States. But it is equally
evident that making up this majority are men of all shades and gradations of opinion, from
the conservative who will scarcely defend his principles for fear of imperiling peace, to the
bold radical who strikes stalwart blows regardless of policy or popularity. How this mass of
mind shall be consolidated into a victorious phalanx in 1860 is the great problem, I think,
of our eventful times. And he who could accomplish it is worthier of fame than Napoleon or
Victor Emmanuel.... In this work, to achieve success, and to achieve it without sacrifice of
essential principle, you can do far more than one like myself, so much younger. Your counsel
carries great weight with it; for, to be plain, there is no political letter that falls from
your pen which is not copied throughout the Union."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Canisius, May 17, 1859.

This allusion was called out by two letters which Lincoln had written during the year; one
declaring his opposition to the waning fallacy of know-nothingism, in which he also defined
his position on "fusion."

The other was a somewhat longer letter, to a Boston committee which had invited him to a festival
in honor of Jefferson's birthday.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Pierce and others, April 6, 1859.

Lincoln's more important political work of the year 1859 was the part he took in the canvass
in the State of Ohio, where a governor was to be chosen at the October election, and where
the result would decide not merely the present and local strength of the rival candidates,
but also to some extent indicate the prospects and probabilities of the Presidential campaign
of 1860. The Ohio Democrats had called Douglas into their canvass, and the Republicans, as
soon as they learned the fact, arranged that Lincoln should come and answer him. There was
a fitness in this, not merely because Lincoln's joint debates with him in Illinois in the previous
summer were so successful, but also because Douglas in nearly every speech made since then,
both in his Southern tour and elsewhere, alluded to the Illinois campaign, and to Lincoln by
name, especially to what he characterized as his political heresies. By thus everywhere making
Lincoln and Lincoln's utterances a public target, Douglas himself, in effect, prolonged and
extended the joint debates over the whole Union. Another circumstance added to the momentary
interest of the general discussion. Douglas was by nature aggressive. Quoting both the paragraph
of Lincoln's Springfield speech declaring that "a house divided against itself cannot stand,"
and the paragraph from Seward's Rochester speech, announcing the "irrepressible conflict,"
Douglas made a long historical examination of his own theory of "non-intervention" and "popular
sovereignty," and built up an elaborate argument to sustain his course. The novelty of this
appeal to the public occasioned general interest and varied comment, and the expedient seemed
so ingenious as to excite the envy of Administration Democrats. Accordingly, Attorney-General
Black, of President Buchanan's Cabinet, at "the request of friends," wrote, printed, and circulated
an anonymous pamphlet in answer, in which he admitted that Douglas was "not the man to be treated
with a disdainful silence," but characterized the "Harper" essay as "an unsuccessful effort
at legal precision; like the writing of a judge who is trying in vain to give good reasons
for a wrong decision on a question of law which he has not quite mastered." Douglas, in a speech
at Wooster, Ohio, criticized this performance of Black's. Reply and rejoinder on both sides
followed in due time; and this war of pamphlets was one of the prominent political incidents
of the year.

Thus Lincoln's advent in the Ohio campaign attracted much more than
usual notice. He made but two speeches, one at Columbus, and one at
Cincinnati, at each of which places Douglas had recently preceded him.
Lincoln's addresses not only brought him large and appreciative
audiences, but they obtained an unprecedented circulation in print. In
the main, they reproduced and tersely re-applied the ideas and
arguments developed in the Senatorial campaign in Illinois, adding,
however, searching comments on the newer positions and points to which
Douglas had since advanced. Debates, pp.
  267-8.

  [Sidenote] Parsons and others to Lincoln, Dec. 7, 1859. Debates,
  preface.

The Ohio Republicans gained a decided success at the October election. Ascribing this result
in a large measure to the influence of Lincoln's speeches, the State Executive Committee resolved
to publish in cheap book form the full Illinois joint debates and the two Ohio addresses, to
serve as campaign material for the ensuing year. "We regard them," wrote the committee to Lincoln,
"as luminous and triumphant expositions of the doctrines of the Republican party, successfully
vindicated from the aspersions of its foes, and calculated to make a document of great practical
service to the Republican party in the approaching Presidential contest."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Parsons and others, Dec. 19, 1859. Ibid.

The enterprise proved a success beyond the most sanguine expectations. A Columbus firm undertook
the publication, itself assuming all pecuniary risk. Three large editions were sold directly
to the public, without any aid from or any purchase by the committee--the third edition containing
the announcement that up to that date, June 16, 1860, thirty thousand copies had already been
circulated.[2]

---------- [1] Partly printed in Hollister, "Life of Colfax," p. 146. We are indebted to Mrs.
Colfax for the full manuscript text of this and other valuable letters which we have used.

[2] The preface to this third edition contains a letter from Douglas, alleging that injustice
had been done him because, "the original reports as published in the 'Chicago Times,' although
intended to be fair and just, were necessarily imperfect, and in some respects erroneous";
charging at the same time that Lincoln's speeches had been revised, corrected, and improved.[A]
To this the publishers replied: "The speeches of Mr. Lincoln were never 'revised, corrected,
or improved' in the sense you use those words. Remarks by the crowd which were not responded
to, and the reporters' insertions of 'cheers,' 'great applause,' and so forth, which received
no answer or comment from the speaker, were by our direction omitted, as well from Mr. Lincoln's
speeches as yours, as we thought their perpetuation in book form would be in bad taste, and
were in no manner pertinent to, or a part of, the speech."[B] And the publishers add a list
of their corrections.

    [A] Douglas to Follet, Foster & Co., June 9, 1860. Debates, third
    edition, preface.

    [B] Follet, Foster & Co. to Douglas, June 16, 1860. Ibid.

CHAPTER XI

HARPER'S FERRY

There now occurred another strange event which, if it had been specially designed as a climax
for the series of great political sensations since 1852, could scarcely have been more dramatic.
This was John Brown's invasion of Harper's Ferry in order to create a slave insurrection. We
can only understand the transaction as far as we can understand the man, and both remain somewhat
enigmatical.

Of Puritan descent, John Brown was born in Connecticut in the year 1800. When he was five years
old, the family moved to Ohio, at that time a comparative wilderness. Here he grew up a strong,
vigorous boy of the woods. His father taught him the tanner's trade; but a restless disposition
drove him to frequent changes of scene and effort when he grew to manhood. He attempted surveying.
He became a divinity student. He tried farming and tanning in Pennsylvania, and tanning and
speculating in real estate in Ohio. Cattle-dealing was his next venture; from this to sheep-raising;
and by a natural transition to the business of a wool-factor in Massachusetts. This not succeeding,
he made a trip to Europe. Returning, he accepted from Gerrit Smith a tract of mountain land
in the Adirondacks, where he proposed to found and foster colonies of free negroes. This undertaking
proved abortive, like all his others, and he once more went back to the wool business in Ohio.

Twice married, nineteen children had been born to him, of whom eleven were living when, in
1854, the Kansas-Nebraska bill plunged the country into the heat of political strife. Four
of his sons moved away to the new Territory in the first rush of emigrants; several others
went later. When the Border-Ruffian hostilities broke out, John Brown followed, with money
and arms contributed in the North. With his sons as a nucleus, he gathered a little band of
fifteen to twenty adventurers, and soon made his name a terror in the lawless guerrilla warfare
of the day. His fighting was of the prevailing type, justifiable, if at all, only on the score
of defensive retaliation, and some of his acts were as criminal and atrocious as the worst
of those committed by the Border Ruffians.[1] His losses, one son murdered, another wounded
to the death, and a third rendered insane from cruel treatment, are scarcely compensated by
the transitory notoriety he gathered in a few fool-hardy skirmishes.

  [Sidenote] James Redpath, "Life of John Brown," p. 48.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn, in the "Atlantic," April, 1872.

These varied experiences give us something of a clue to his character: a strong will; great
physical energy; sanguine, fanatical temperament; unbounded courage and little wisdom; crude,
visionary ideality; the inspiration of biblical precepts and Old Testament hero-worship; and
ambition curbed to irritation by the hard fetters of labor, privation, and enforced endurance.
In association, habit, language, and conduct, he was clean, but coarse; honest, but rude. In
disposition he mingled the sacrificing tenderness with the sacrificial sternness of his prototypes
in Jewish history. He could lay his own child on the altar without a pang. The strongest element
of his character was religious fanaticism. Taught from earliest childhood to "fear God and
keep his commandments," he believed firmly in the divine authenticity of the Bible, and memorized
much of its contents. His favorite texts became literal and imperative mandates; he came to
feel that he bore the commission and enjoyed the protection of the Almighty. In his Kansas
camps he prayed and saw visions; believed he wielded the sword of the Lord and of Gideon; had
faith that the angels encompassed him. He desired no other safeguard than his own ideas of
justice and his own convictions of duty. These ideas and convictions, however, refused obedience
to accepted laws and morals, and were mere fantastic and pernicious outgrowths of his religious
fanaticism. His courage partook of the recklessness of insanity. He did not count odds. "What
are five to one?" he asked; and at another time he said, "One man in the right, ready to die,
will chase a thousand." Perhaps he even believed he held a charmed life, for he boasted that
he had been fired at thirty times and only his hair had been touched. In personal appearance
he was tall and slender, with rather a military bearing. He had an impressive, half-persuasive,
half-commanding manner. He was always very secretive, affected much mystery in movements, came
and went abruptly, was direct and dogmatic to bluntness in his conversation. His education
was scant, his reading limited; he wrote strong phrases in bad orthography. If we may believe
the intimations from himself and those who knew him best, he had not only acquired a passionate
hatred of the institution of slavery, but had for twenty years nursed the longing to become
a liberator of slaves in the Southern States. To this end he read various stories of insurrections,
and meditated on the vicissitudes, chances, and strategy of partisan warfare. A year's border
fighting in Kansas not only suddenly put thought into action, but his personal and family sacrifices
intensified his visionary ambition into a stern and inflexible purpose.

It is impossible to trace exactly how and when the Harper's Ferry invasion first took practical
shape in John Brown's mind, but the indications are that it grew little by little out of his
Kansas experience. His earliest collisions with the Border Ruffians occurred the spring and
summer of 1856. In the autumn of that year the United States troops dispersed his band, and
generally suppressed the civil war. In January, 1857, we find him in the Eastern States, appealing
for arms and supplies to various committees and in various places, alleging that he desired
to organize and equip a company of one hundred minute-men, who were "mixed up with the people
of Kansas," but who should be ready on call to rush to the defense of freedom. This appeal
only partly succeeded. From one committee he obtained authority as agent over certain arms
stored in Iowa, the custody and control of which had been in dispute. From another committee
he obtained a portion of the clothing he desired. From still other sources he received certain
moneys, but not sufficient for his requirements. Two circumstances, however, indicate that
he was practicing a deception upon the committees and public. He entered into a contract with
a blacksmith, in Collinsville, Connecticut, to manufacture him 1000 pikes of a certain pattern,[2]
to be completed in 90 days, and paid $550 on the contract. There is no record that he mentioned
this matter to any committee. His proposed Kansas minute-men were only to be one hundred in
number, and the pikes could not be for them; his explanation to the blacksmith, that they would
be a good weapon of defense for Kansas settlers, was clearly a subterfuge. These pikes, ordered
about March 23, 1857, were without doubt intended for his Virginia invasion; and in fact the
identical lot, finished after long delay, under the same contract, were shipped to him in September,
1859, and were actually used in his Harper's Ferry attempt. The other circumstance is that,
about the time of his contract for the pikes, he also, without the knowledge of committees
or friends, engaged an adventurer, named Forbes, to go West and give military instruction to
his company--a measure neither useful nor practicable for Kansas defense. These two acts may
be taken as the first preparation for Harper's Ferry.

But merely to conceive great enterprises is not to perform them, and every after-step of John
Brown reveals his lamentable weakness and utter inadequacy for the heroic role to which he
fancied himself called. His first blunder was in divulging all his plans to Forbes, an utter
stranger, while he was so careful in concealing them from others. Forbes, as ambitious and
reckless as himself, of course soon quarreled with him, and left him, and endeavored first
to supplant and then betray him.

  [Sidenote] Realf, Testimony Mason Report, p. 91. Ibid., pp. 91-4.

Meanwhile, little by little, Brown gathered one colored and six white confederates from among
his former followers in Kansas, and assembled them for drill and training in Iowa; four others
joined him there. These, together with his son Owen, counted, all told, a band of twelve persons
engaged for, and partly informed of, his purpose. He left them there for instruction during
the first three months of the year 1858, while he himself went East to procure means.

  [Sidenote] "Atlantic," July, 1872, p. 51.

At the beginning of February, 1858, John Brown became, and remained for about a month, a guest
at the house of Frederick Douglass, in Rochester, New York. Immediately on his arrival there
he wrote to a prominent Boston abolitionist, T.W. Higginson: "I now want to get, for the perfecting
of by far the most important undertaking of my whole life, from $500 to $800 within the next
sixty days. I have written Rev. Theodore Parker, George L. Stearns, and F.B. Sanborn, Esquires,
on the subject."

  [Sidenote] Sanborn, "Life and Letters of John Brown," p. 438.

Correspondence and mutual requests for a conference ensued, and finally these Boston friends
sent Sanborn to the house of Gerrit Smith, in Peterboro, New York, where a meeting had been
arranged. Sanborn was a young man of twenty-six, just graduated from college, who, as secretary
of various Massachusetts committees, had been the active agent for sending contributions to
Kansas. He arrived on the evening of Washington's birthday, February 22, 1858, and took part
in a council of conspiracy, of which John Brown was the moving will and chief actor.

  [Sidenote] "Atlantic," July, 1872, p. 52. Sanborn in "Atlantic,"
  March, 1875, p. 329; also, Mason Report, pp. 48-59.

Brown began by reading to the council a long document which he had drafted since his stay in
Rochester. It called itself a "Provisional Constitution and Ordinances for the People of the
United States," which, as it explained, looked to no overthrow of States or dissolution of
the Union, but simply to "amendment and repeal." It was not in any sense a reasonable project
of government, but simply an ill-jointed outline of rules for a proposed slave insurrection.
The scheme, so far as any comprehension of it may be gleaned from the various reports which
remain, was something as follows:

  [Sidenote] Mason Report, p. 55.

  [Sidenote] Blair, Testimony, Mason Report, pp. 121-5.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn, "Life and Letters of John Brown," p. 438.

Somewhere in the Virginia mountains he would raise the standard of revolt and liberation. Enthusiasts
would join him from the free States, and escaped blacks come to his help from Canada. From
Virginia and the neighboring slave-States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee,
and Kentucky, fugitive slaves, with their families, would flock to his camps. He would take
his supplies, provisions, and horses by force from the neighboring plantations. Money, plate,
watches, and jewelry would "constitute a liberal safety or intelligence fund." For arms, he
had 200 Sharps rifles, and 200 revolvers, with which he would arm his best marksmen. His ruder
followers, and even the women and children, he would arm with pikes to defend the fortifications.
He would construct defenses of palisades and earth-works. He would use natural strongholds;
find secret mountain-passes to connect one with another; retreat from and evade attacks he
could not overcome. He would maintain and indefinitely prolong a guerrilla war, of which the
Seminole Indians in Florida and the negroes in Hayti afforded examples. With success, he would
enlarge the area of his occupation so as to include arable valleys and low-lands bordering
the Alleghany range in the slave-States; and here he would colonize, govern, and educate the
blacks he had freed, and maintain their liberty. He would make captures and reprisals, confiscate
property, take, hold, and exchange prisoners and especially white hostages and exchange them
for slaves to liberate. He would recognize neutrals, make treaties, exercise humanity, prevent
crime, repress immorality, and observe all established laws of war. Success would render his
revolt permanent, and in the end, through "amendment and repeal," abolish slavery. If, at the
worst, he were driven from the mountains he would retreat with his followers through the free
States to Canada. He had 12 recruits drilling in Iowa, and a half-executed contract for 1000
pikes in Connecticut; furnish him $800 in money and he would begin operations in May.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn in "Atlantic," March, 1875, p. 329.

  [Sidenote] Redpath, "Life of John Brown," p. 206.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn in "Atlantic," July, 1872, p. 52.

This, if we supply continuity and arrangement to his vagaries, must have been approximately
what he felt or dreamily saw, and outlined in vigorous words to his auditors. His listening
friends were dumfounded at the audacity as well as heart-sick at the hopelessness of such an
attempt. They pointed out the almost certainty of failure and destruction, and attempted to
dissuade him from the mad scheme; but to no purpose. They saw they were dealing with a foregone
conclusion; he had convoked them, not to advise as to methods, but to furnish the means. All
reasonable argument he met with his rigid dogmatic formulas, his selected proverbs, his favorite
texts of Scripture. The following, preserved by various witnesses as samples of his sayings
at other times, indicate his reasoning on this occasion: "Give a slave a pike and you make
him a man. I would not give Sharps rifles to more than ten men in a hundred, and then only
when they have learned to use them. A ravine is better than a plain. Woods and mountain-sides
can be held by resolute men against ten times their force. Nat Turner, with fifty men, held
Virginia five weeks; the same number, well organized and armed, can shake the system out of
the State." "A few men in the right, and knowing they are right, can overturn a king. Twenty
men in the Alleghanies could break slavery to pieces in two years." "If God be for us, who
can be against us? Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain."

  [Sidenote] Ibid., March, 1875, p. 329.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn, "Life and Letters of John Brown," p. 439.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn, "Atlantic," July, 1872, pp. 53-4.

One of the participants relates, that--"When the agitated party broke up their council for
the night, it was perfectly plain that Brown could not be held back from his purpose." The
discussion of the friends on the second day (February 23) was therefore only whether they should
aid him, or oppose him, or remain indifferent. Against every admonition of reason, mere personal
sympathy seems to have carried a decision in favor of the first of these alternatives. "You
see how it is," said the chief counselor, Gerrit Smith; "our dear old friend has made up his
mind to this course and cannot be turned from it. We cannot give him up to die alone; we must
support him." Brown has left an exact statement of his own motive and expectation, in a letter
to Sanborn on the following day. "I have only had this one opportunity in a life of nearly
sixty years ... God has honored but comparatively a very small part of mankind with any possible
chance for such mighty and soul-satisfying rewards ... I expect nothing but to endure hardness,
but I expect to effect a mighty conquest, even though it be like the last victory of Samson."

  [Sidenote] Realf, Testimony, Mason Report, p. 99.

Nine days later Brown went to Boston, where the conspiracy was enlarged and strengthened by
the promises and encouragements of a little coterie of radical abolitionists.[3] Within the
next two months the funds he desired were contributed and sent him. Meanwhile Brown returned
West, and moved his company of recruits from Iowa, by way of Chicago and Detroit, to the town
of Chatham, in Canada West, arriving there about the 1st of May. By written invitations, Brown
here called together what is described as "a quiet convention of the friends of freedom," to
perfect his organization. On the 8th of May, 1858, they held a meeting with closed doors, there
being present the original company of ten or eleven white members and one colored, whom Brown
had brought with him, and a somewhat miscellaneous gathering of negro residents of Canada.
Some sort of promise of secrecy was mutually made; then John Brown, in a speech, laid his plan
before the meeting. One Delany, a colored doctor, in a response, promised the assistance of
all the colored people in Canada. The provisional constitution drafted by Brown at Rochester
was read and adopted by articles, and about forty-five persons signed their names to the "Constitution,"
for the "proscribed and oppressed races of the United States." Two days afterwards, the meeting
again convened for the election of officers; John Brown was elected commander-in-chief by acclamation;
other members were by the same summary method appointed secretary of war, secretary of state,
secretary of the treasury, and two of them members of congress. The election of a president
was prudently postponed.

This Chatham Convention cannot claim consideration as a serious deliberative proceeding. John
Brown was its sole life and voice. The colored Canadians were nothing but spectators. The ten
white recruits were mere Kansas adventurers, mostly boys in years and waifs in society, perhaps
depending largely for livelihood on the employment or bounty, precarious as it was, of their
leader. Upon this reckless, drifting material the strong despotic will, emotional enthusiasm,
and mysterious rhapsodical talk of John Brown exercised an irresistible fascination; he drew
them by easy gradations into his confidence and conspiracy. The remaining element, John Brown's
son in the Chatham meeting, and other sons and relatives in the Harper's Ferry attack, are
of course but the long educated instruments of the father's thought and purpose.

  [Sidenote] Stearns to Brown, May 14, 1858: Howe, Testimony, Mason
  Report, p. 177.

With funds provided, with his plan of government accepted, and himself formally appointed commander-in-chief,
Brown doubtless thought his campaign about to begin; it was however destined to an unexpected
interruption. The discarded and disappointed adventurer Forbes had informed several prominent
Republicans in Washington City that Brown was meditating an unlawful enterprise; and the Boston
committee, warned that certain arms in Brown's custody, which had been contributed for Kansas
defense, were about to be flagrantly misused, dared not incur the public odium of complicity
in such a deception and breach of faith. The Chatham organization was scarcely completed when
Brown received word from the Boston committee that he must not use the arms (the 200 Sharps
rifles and 200 revolvers) which had been intrusted to him for any other purpose than for the
defense of Kansas. Brown hurried to Boston; but oral consultation with his friends confirmed
the necessity for postponement; and it was arranged that, to lull suspicion, he should return
to Kansas and await a more favorable opportunity. He yielded assent, and that fall and winter
performed the exploit of leading an armed foray into Missouri, and carrying away eleven slaves
to Canada--an achievement which, while to a certain degree it placed him in the attitude of
a public outlaw, nevertheless greatly increased his own and his followers' confidence in the
success of his general plan. Gradually the various obstacles melted away. Kansas became pacified.
The adventurer Forbes faded out of sight and importance. The disputed Sharps rifles and revolvers
were transferred from committee to committee, and finally turned over to a private individual
to satisfy a debt. He in turn delivered them to Brown without any hampering conditions. The
Connecticut blacksmith finished and shipped the thousand pikes. The contributions from the
Boston committee swelled from one to several thousands of dollars. The recruits, with a few
changes, though scattered in various parts of the country, were generally held to their organization
and promise, and slightly increased in number. The provisional constitution and sundry blank
commissions were surreptitiously printed, and captains and lieutenants appointed by the signature
of John Brown "Commander-in-Chief," countersigned by the "Secretary of War."

Gradually, also, the commander-in-chief resolved on an important modification of his plan:
that, instead of plunging at once into the Virginia mountains, he would begin by the capture
of the United States armory and arsenal at Harper's Ferry. Two advantages seem to have vaguely
suggested themselves to his mind as likely to arise from this course: the possession of a large
quantity of Government arms, and the widespread panic and moral influence of so bold an attempt.
But it nowhere appears that he had any conception of the increased risk and danger it involved,
or that he adopted the slightest precaution to meet them.

Harper's Ferry was a town of five thousand inhabitants, lying between the slave-States of Maryland
and Virginia, at the confluence of the Potomac and the Shenandoah rivers, where the united
streams flow through a picturesque gap in the single mountain-range called the Blue Ridge.
The situation possesses none of the elements which would make it a defensible fastness for
protracted guerrilla warfare, such as was contemplated in Brown's plan. The mountains are everywhere
approachable without difficulty; are pierced by roads and farms in all directions; contain
few natural resources for sustenance, defense, or concealment; are easily observed or controlled
from the plain by superior forces. The town is irregular, compact, and hilly; a bridge across
each stream connects it with the opposite shores, and the Government factory and buildings,
which utilized the water-power of the Potomac, lay in the lowest part of the point of land
between the streams. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad crosses the Potomac bridge.

On the 4th of July, 1859, John Brown, under an assumed name, with two sons and another follower,
appeared near Harper's Ferry, and soon after rented the Kennedy Farm, in Maryland, five miles
from town, where he made a pretense of cattle-dealing and mining; but in reality collected
secretly his rifles, revolvers, ammunition, pikes, blankets, tents, and miscellaneous articles
for a campaign. His rather eccentric actions, and the irregular coming and going of occasional
strangers at his cabin, created no suspicion in the neighborhood. Cautiously increasing his
supplies, and gathering his recruits, he appointed the attack for the 24th of October; but
for some unexplained reason (fear of treachery, it is vaguely suggested) he precipitated his
movement in advance of that date. From this point the occurrences exhibit no foresight or completeness
of preparation, no diligent pursuit of an intelligent plan, nor skill to devise momentary expedients;
only a blind impulse to act.

On Sunday evening, October 16, 1859, Brown gave his final orders, humanely directing his men
to take no life where they could avoid it. Placing a few pikes and other implements in his
one-horse wagon, he started with his company of eighteen followers at 8 o'clock in the evening,
leaving five men behind. They cut the telegraph wires on the way, and reached Harper's Ferry
about 11 o'clock. He himself broke open the armory gates, took the watchmen prisoners, and
made that place his headquarters. Separating his men into small detachments, he took possession
of, and attempted to hold, the two bridges, the arsenal, and the rifle-factory. Next he sent
six of his men five miles into the country to bring in several prominent slaveowners and their
slaves. This was accomplished before daylight, and all were brought as prisoners to Brown at
the armory. With them they also brought a large four-horse farm wagon, which he now sent to
transfer arms from the Kennedy farm to a school-house on the Maryland side of the Potomac,
about one mile from the town.

Meanwhile, about midnight of Sunday, they detained the railroad train three hours, but finally
allowed it to proceed. A negro porter was shot on the bridge. The town began to be alarmed.
Citizens were captured at various points, and brought to swell the number of prisoners at the
armory, counting forty or fifty by morning. Still, not until daylight, and even until the usual
hour of rising on Monday morning, did the town comprehend the nature and extent of the trouble.

What, now, did Brown intend to do? What result did he look for from his movement thus far?
Amid his conflicting acts and contradictory explanations, the indications seem clear only on
two or three points. Both he and his men gave everybody to understand without reserve that
they had come not to kill whites, but only to liberate slaves. Soon, also, he placed pikes
in the hands of his black prisoners. But that ceremony did not make soldiers of them, as his
favorite maxim taught. They held them in their hands with listless indifference, remaining
themselves, as before, an incumbrance instead of a reënforcement. He gave his white prisoners
notice that he would hold them as hostages, and informed one or two that, after daylight, he
would exchange them for slaves. Before the general fighting began, he endeavored to effect
an armistice or compromise with the citizens, to stop bloodshed, on condition that he be permitted
to hold the armory and retain the liberated negroes. All this warrants the inference that he
expected to hold the town, first, by the effect of terror; secondly, by the display of leniency
and kindness; and supposed that he could remain indefinitely, and dictate terms at his leisure.
The fallacy of this scheme became quickly apparent.

As the day dawned upon the town and the truth upon the citizens, his situation in a military
point of view was already hopeless--eighteen men against perhaps 1000 adults, and these eighteen
scattered in four or five different squads, without means of mutual support, communication,
or even contingent orders! Gradually, as the startled citizens became certain of the insignificant
numbers of the assailants, an irregular street-firing broke out between Brown's sentinels and
individuals with firearms. The alarm was carried to neighboring towns, and killed and wounded
on both sides augmented the excitement. Tradition rather than definite record asserts that
some of Brown's lieutenants began to comprehend that they were in a trap, and advised him to
retreat. Nearly all his eulogists have assumed that such was his original plan, and his own
subsequent excuses hint at this intention. But the claim is clearly untenable. He had no means
of defensive retreat--no provisions, no transportation for his arms and equipage, no supply
of ammunition. The suggestion is an evident afterthought.

Whether from choice or necessity, however, he remained only to find himself more and more closely
pressed. By Monday noon the squad in the rifle-works, distant one mile from the armory, had
been driven out, killed, and captured. The other squads, not so far from their leader, joined
him at the armory, minus their losses. Already he was driven to take refuge with his diminished
force in the engine-house, a low, strong brick building in the armory yard, where they barricaded
doors and improvised loop-holes, and into which they took with them ten selected prisoners
as hostages. But the expedient was one of desperation. By this movement Brown literally shut
himself up in his own prison, from which escape was impossible.

A desultory fire was kept up through doors and loop-holes. But now the whole country had become
thoroughly aroused, and sundry military companies from neighboring towns and counties poured
into Harper's Ferry. Brown himself at length realized the hopelessness of his position, and
parleyed for leave to retreat across the river on condition of his giving up his prisoners;
but it was too late. President Buchanan also took prompt measures; and on Monday night a detachment
of eighty marines from the Washington navy-yard, under command of Brevet Colonel Robert E.
Lee, of the United States army, the same who afterwards became the principal leader of the
Confederate armies in the rebellion, reached the scene of action, and were stationed in the
armory yard so as to cut off the insurgents from all retreat. At daylight on Tuesday morning
Brown was summoned to surrender at discretion, but he refused. The instant the officer left
the engine-house a storming-party of marines battered in the doors; in five minutes the conflict
was over. One marine was shot dead in the assault; Brown fell under severe sword and bayonet
wounds, two of his sons lay dead or dying, and four or five of his men were made prisoners,
only two remaining unhurt. The great scheme of liberation built up through nearly three years
of elaborate conspiracy, and designed to be executed in defiance of law, by individual enterprise
with pikes, rifles, forts, guerrilla war, prisoners, hostages, and plunder, was, after an experimental
campaign of thirty-six hours, in utter collapse. Of Brown's total force of twenty-two men,
ten were killed, five escaped, and seven were captured, tried, and hanged. Of the townspeople,
five had been killed and eight wounded.

  [Sidenote] Sanborn in the "Atlantic," Dec. 1875. p. 718.

While John Brown's ability for military leadership was too insignificant even for comment,
his moral and personal courage compelled the admiration of his enemies. Arraigned before a
Virginia court, the authorities hurried through his trial for treason, conspiracy, and murder,
with an unseemly precipitancy, almost calculated to make him seem the accuser, and the commonwealth
the trembling culprit. He acknowledged his acts with frankness, defended his purpose with a
sincerity that betokened honest conviction, bore his wounds and met his fate with a manly fortitude.
Eight years before, he had written, in a document organizing a band of colored people in Springfield,
Massachusetts, to resist the fugitive-slave law: "Nothing so charms the American people as
personal bravery. The trial for life of one bold, and to some extent successful, man, for defending
his rights in good earnest, would arouse more sympathy throughout the nation than the accumulated
wrongs and sufferings of more than three millions of our submissive colored population." Even
now, when mere Quixotic knight-errantry and his own positive violation of the rights of individuals
and society had put his life in forfeit, this sympathy for his boldness and misfortune came
to him in large measure. Questioned by Governor Wise, Senator Mason, and Representative Vallandigham
about his accomplices, he refused to say anything except about what he had done, and freely
took upon himself the whole responsibility. He was so warped by his religious training as to
have become a fatalist as well as a fanatic. "All our actions," he said to one who visited
him in prison, "even all the follies that led to this disaster, were decreed to happen ages
before the world was made." Perverted Calvinistic philosophy is the key which unlocks the mystery
of Brown's life and deeds.

He was convicted, sentenced, and hanged on the 2d of December. Congress met a few days afterwards,
and the Senate appointed an investigating committee to inquire into the seizure of the United
States armory and arsenal. The long and searching examination of many witnesses brought out
with sufficient distinctness the varied personal plottings of Brown, but failed to reveal that
half a dozen radical abolition clergymen of Boston were party to the conspiracy; nor did they
then or afterwards justify their own conduct by showing that Christ ever counseled treason,
abetted conspiracy, or led rebellion against established government. From beginning to end,
the whole act was reprehensible, and fraught with evil result. Modern civilization and republican
government require that beyond the self-defense necessary to the protection of life and limb,
all coercive reform shall act by authority of law only.

  [Sidenote] Mason Report, p. 18.

Upon politics the main effect of the Harper's Ferry incident was to aggravate the temper and
increase the bitterness of all parties. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi; Mason, of Virginia;
and Fitch, of Indiana, Democratic members of the Senate investigating committee, sought diligently
but unsuccessfully to find grounds to hold the Republican party at large responsible for Brown's
raid. Collamer, of Vermont, and Doolittle, of Wisconsin, Republican members of the committee,
in their minority report, considered the affair an outgrowth of the pro-slavery lawlessness
in Kansas. Senator Douglas, of Illinois, however, apparently with the object of still further
setting himself right with the South, and atoning for his Freeport heresy, made a long speech
in advocacy of a law to punish conspiracies in one State or Territory against the government,
people, or property of another; once more quoting Lincoln's Springfield speech, and Seward's
Rochester speech as containing revolutionary doctrines.

  [Sidenote] Dec, 2, 1859.

  [Sidenote] James Redpath, "Echoes of Harper's Ferry," p. 41.

  [Sidenote] George Willis Cooke, "Life of Emerson," p. 140.

In the country at large, as in Congress, the John Brown raid excited bitter discussion and
radically diverse comment--some execrating him as a deservedly punished felon, while others
exalted him as a saint. His Boston friends particularly, who had encouraged him with voice
or money, were extravagant in their demonstrations of approval and admiration. On the day of
his execution religious services were held, and funeral bells were tolled. "The road to heaven,"
said Theodore Parker, "is as short from the gallows as from a throne; perhaps, also, as easy."
Emerson, using a yet stronger figure, had already called him "a new saint, waiting yet his
martyrdom, and who, if he shall suffer, will make the gallows glorious like the cross."

  [Sidenote] Lecture at Brooklyn, November 1, 1859.

  [Sidenote] "Echoes of Harper's Ferry," p. 48.

  [Sidenote] Letter to Committee of Merchants, December 20, 1859.
  Ibid., p. 299.

Amid this conflict of argument, public opinion in the free-States gravitated to neither extreme.
It accepted neither the declaration of the great orator Wendell Phillips, that "the lesson
of the hour is insurrection," nor the assertion of the great lawyer Charles O'Conor, that slavery
"is in its own nature, as an institution, beneficial to both races."

This chapter would be incomplete if we neglected to quote Mr. Lincoln's opinion of the Harper's
Ferry attempt. His quiet and common-sense criticism of the affair, pronounced a few months
after its occurrence, was substantially the conclusion to which the average public judgment
has come after the lapse of a quarter of a century:

  [Sidenote] Lincoln, Cooper Institute Speech, Feb. 27, 1860.

  [Sidenote] "Tribune Almanac," 1860.

The aggravation of partisan temper over the Harper's Ferry incident found a manifestation in
a contest over the Speakership in the House of Representatives as prolonged and bitter as that
which attended the election of Banks. In the Congressional elections of 1858, following the
Lecompton controversy, the Democrats had once more lost control of the House of Representatives;
there having been chosen 113 Republicans, 93 Administration Democrats, 8 anti-Lecompton Democrats,
and 23 South Americans, as they were called; that is, members, mainly from the slave-States,
opposed to the Administration.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," December 5, 1859, p. 3.

This Thirty-sixth Congress began its session three days after the execution of John Brown,
and the election of a Speaker was the first work of the new House of Representatives. The Republicans,
not having a majority, made no caucus nomination; but John Sherman, of Ohio, had the largest
following on the first ballot, and thereafter received their united efforts to elect him.

This resolution was aimed at Sherman, who with some seventy Republicans of the previous Congress
had signed a circular indorsing and recommending the book upon the general statement that it
was an anti-slavery work, written by a Southerner. The book addressed itself to non-slaveholding
Southern whites, and was mainly made up of statistics, but contained occasional passages of
intolerant and vindictive sentiment against slaveholders. Whether it could be considered "insurrectionary"
depended altogether on the pro-slavery or anti-slavery bias of the critic. Besides, the author
had agreed that the obnoxious passages should not be printed in the compendium which the Republicans
recommended in their circular. When interrogated, Mr. Sherman replied that he had never seen
the book, and that "I am opposed to any interference whatever by the people of the free-States
with, the relations of master and slave in the slave-States." But the disavowal did not relieve
him from Southern enmity. The fire-eaters seized the pretext to charge him with all manner
of "abolition" intentions, and by violent debate and the utterance of threats of disunion made
the House a parliamentary and almost a revolutionary babel for nearly two months. Certain appropriations
were exhausted, and the treasury was in great need of funds. Efforts were made to adopt the
plurality rule, and to choose a Speaker for a limited period; but every such movement was resisted
for the purpose of defeating Sherman, or rather, through his defeat to force the North into
unconditional submission to extreme pro-slavery sentiment. The struggle, nominally over an
incident, was in reality over a policy.

On January 30, 1860, Mr. Sherman withdrew his name, and the solid Republican vote was given
to William Pennington, of New Jersey, another Republican, who, on February 1, was elected Speaker
by 117 votes, 4 opposing members having come to his support. The South gained nothing by the
obstructionist policy of its members. During the long contest, extending through forty-four
ballots, their votes were scattered among many candidates of different factions, while the
Republicans maintained an almost unbroken steadiness of party discipline. On the whole, the
principal results of the struggle were, to sectionalize parties more completely, ripen Southern
sentiment towards secession, and combine wavering voters in the free-States in support of Republican
doctrines.

---------- [1] On the night of May 24-25, 1856, five pro-slavery men living on Pottawatomie
Creek, in Kansas, were mysteriously and brutally assassinated. The relatives and friends of
the deceased charged John Brown and his band with these murders, which the relatives and friends
of Brown persistently denied. His latest biographer, however, unreservedly admits his guilt:
"For some reason he [John Brown] chose not to strike a blow himself; and this is what Salmon
Brown meant when he declared that his father 'was not a participator in the deed.' It was a
very narrow interpretation of the word 'participator' which would permit such a denial; but
it was no doubt honestly made, although for the purpose of disguising what John Brown's real
agency in the matter was. He was, in fact, the originator and performer of these executions,
although the hands that dealt the wounds were those of others."--Frank B. Sanborn, "Life and
Letters of John Brown," pp. 263-4.

[2] "He was exhibiting to a number of gentlemen, who happened to be collected together in a
druggist's store, some weapons which he claimed to have taken from Captain Pate in Kansas.
Among them was a two-edged dirk, with a blade about eight inches long, and he remarked that
if he had a lot of those things to attach to poles about six feet long, they would be a capital
weapon of defense for the settlers of Kansas.... When he came to make the contract, he wrote
it to have malleable ferrules, cast solid, and a guard to be of malleable iron. That was all
the difference.... After seeing the sample he made a slight alteration. One was, to have a
screw to put in, as the one here has, so that they could be unshipped in case of necessity."--Blair,
Testimony before Investigating Committee, Senate Report No. 278, 1st Sess. 36th Cong., pp. 121-2.

[3] "Meantime I had communicated his plans at his request to Theodore Parker, Wentworth Higginson,
and Dr. Howe, and had given Mr. Stearns some general conception of them ... No other person
in New England except these four was informed by me of the affair, though there were many who
knew or suspected Brown's general purpose ... Brown's first request, in 1858, was for a fund
of $1000 only; with this in hand he promised to take the field either in April or May. Mr.
Stearns acted as treasurer of this fund, and before the 1st of May nearly the whole amount
had been paid in or subscribed."--Frank B. Sanborn, "Atlantic," April, 1875, pp. 456-7.

CHAPTER XII

LINCOLN'S COOPER INSTITUTE SPEECH

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to McNeill, April 6, 1860. Lamon, "Life of
  Lincoln," p. 441.

  [Sidenote] Jas. A. Briggs to Lincoln, November 1, 1859. MS. Jas. A.
  Briggs in New York "Evening Post," August 16, 1867.

Among the many invitations to deliver addresses which Lincoln received in the fall of 1859,
was one from a committee asking him to lecture in Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, in a course then
in progress there, designed for popular entertainment. "I wrote," said Lincoln, "that I could
do it in February, provided they would take a political speech, if I could find time to get
up no other." "Your letter was duly received and handed over to the committee," was the response,
"and they accept your compromise. You may lecture at the time you mention, and they will pay
you $200. I think they will arrange for a lecture in New York also, and pay you $200 for that."

  [Sidenote] C.C. Nott to Lincoln, February 9, 1860. MS.

Financial obstacles, or other reasons, brought about the transfer of the engagement to a new
committee, and the invitation was repeated in a new form: "The Young Men's Central Republican
Union of this city [New York] very earnestly desire that you should deliver what I may term
a political lecture during the ensuing month.

Lincoln, however, remained under the impression that the lecture was to be given in Brooklyn,
and only learned after he reached New York to fulfill his engagement that he was to speak in
the Cooper Institute. Of course the presence of such a gathering was no mere accident. Not
only had Lincoln's name for nearly two years found constant mention in the newspapers, but
both friendly and hostile comment had coupled it with the two ranking political leaders in
the free-States--Seward and Douglas.

He took as his text a phrase uttered by Senator Douglas in the late Ohio campaign--"Our fathers,
when they framed the government under which we live, understood this question just as well,
and even better than we do now."

From this "precise and agreed starting-point" Lincoln next traced with minute historical analysis
the action of "our fathers" in framing "the government under which we live," by their votes
and declarations in the Congresses which preceded the Constitution and in the Congresses following
which proposed its twelve amendments and enacted various Territorial prohibitions. His conclusions
were irresistibly convincing.

If any part of the audience came with the expectation of hearing the rhetorical fire-works
of a Western stump-speaker of the "half-horse, half-alligator" variety, they met novelty of
an unlooked for kind. In Lincoln's entire address he neither introduced an anecdote nor essayed
a witticism; and the first half of it does not contain even an illustrative figure or a poetical
fancy. It was the quiet, searching exposition of the historian, and the terse, compact reasoning
of the statesman, about an abstract principle of legislation, in language well-nigh as restrained
and colorless as he would have employed in arguing a case before a court. Yet such was the
apt choice of words, the easy precision of sentences, the simple strength of propositions,
the fairness of every point he assumed, and the force of every conclusion he drew, that his
listeners followed him with the interest and delight a child feels in its easy mastery of a
plain sum in arithmetic.

With the sympathy and confidence of his audience thus enlisted, Lincoln next took up the more
prominent topics in popular thought, and by words of kindly admonition and protest addressed
to the people of the South, showed how impatiently, unreasonably, and unjustly they were charging
the Republican party with sectionalism, with radicalism, with revolutionary purpose, with the
John Brown raid, and kindred political offenses, not only in the absence of any acts to justify
such charges, but even in the face of its emphatic and constant denials and disavowals. The
illustration with which he concluded this branch of his theme could not well be surpassed in
argumentative force.

But the most impressive, as well as the most valuable, feature of Lincoln's address was its
concluding portion, where, in advice directed especially to Republicans, he pointed out in
dispassionate but earnest language that the real, underlying conflict was in the difference
of moral conviction between the sections as to the inherent right or wrong of slavery, and
in view of which he defined the proper duty of the free-States.

  [Sidenote] "New York Tribune," February 28, 1860.

The smiles, the laughter, the outburst of applause which greeted and emphasized the speaker's
telling points, showed Mr. Lincoln that his arguments met ready acceptance. The next morning
the four leading New York dailies printed the speech in full, and bore warm testimony to its
merit and effect.

  [Sidenote] Pamphlet edition with notes and preface by Charles C. Nott
  and Cephas Brainerd, September, 1860.

A pamphlet reprint was at once announced by the same paper; and later, in the Presidential
campaign, a more careful edition was prepared and circulated, to which were added copious notes
by two members of the committee under whose auspices the address was delivered. Their comment,
printed in the preface, is worth quoting as showing its literary value under critical analysis.

From New York Lincoln went to fill other engagements to speak at several places in New England,
where he met the same enthusiastic popular reception and left the same marked impression, especially
upon his more critical and learned hearers. They found no little surprise in the fact that
a Western politician, springing from the class of unlettered frontiersmen, could not only mold
plain strong words into fresh and attractive phraseology, but maintain a clear, sustained,
convincing argument, equal in force and style to the best examples in their college text-books.

CHAPTER XIII

THE CHARLESTON CONVENTION

The great political struggle between the North and the South, between Freedom and Slavery,
was approaching its culmination. The "irrepressible conflict" had shifted uneasily from caucus
to Congress; from Congress to Kansas; incidentally to the Supreme Court and to the Congressional
elections in the various States; from Kansas it had come back with renewed intensity to Congress.
The next stage of development through which it was destined to pass was the Presidential election
of 1860, where, necessarily, the final result would depend largely upon the attitude and relation
of parties, platforms, and candidates as selected and proclaimed by their National conventions.

The first of these National conventions was that of the Democratic party, long appointed to
meet at Charleston, South Carolina, on April 23, 1860. The fortunes of the party had greatly
fluctuated. The repeal of the Missouri Compromise had brought it shipwreck in 1854; it had
regained victory in the election of Buchanan, and a majority of the House of Representatives
in 1856; then the Lecompton imbroglio once more caused its defeat in the Congressional elections
of 1858. But worse than the victory of its opponents was the irreconcilable schism in its own
ranks--the open war between President Buchanan and Senator Douglas. In a general way the Southern
Democracy followed Buchanan, while the Northern Democracy followed Douglas. Yet there was just
enough local exception to baffle accurate calculation. Could the Charleston Convention heal
the feud of leaders, and bridge the chasm in policy and principle? As the time approached,
and delegation after delegation was chosen by the States, all hope of accommodation gradually
disappeared. Each faction put forth its utmost efforts, rallied its strongest men. Each caucus
and convention only accentuated and deepened existing differences. When the convention met,
its members brought not the ordinary tricks and expedients of politicians with carte blanche
authority, but the precise formulated terms to which their constituencies would consent. They
were only messengers, not arbitrators. The Charleston Convention was the very opposite of its
immediate predecessor, the Cincinnati Convention. At Cincinnati, concealment and ambiguity
had been the central thought and purpose. Everybody was anxious to be hoodwinked. Delegates,
constituencies, and leaders had willingly joined in the game of "cheat and be cheated." Availability,
harmony, party success, were the paramount objects.

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Reply to Black, Pamphlet, Oct., 1859.

No similar ambiguity, concealment, or bargain was possible at Charleston. There was indeed
a whole brood of collateral issues to be left in convenient obscurity, but the central questions
must not be shirked. The Lecompton quarrel, the Freeport doctrine, the property theory, the
"slave-State" dogma, the Congressional slave code proposal, must be boldly met and squarely
adjusted. Even if the delegates had been disposed to trifle with their constituents, the leaders
themselves would tolerate no evasion on certain cardinal points. Douglas, in his Dorr letter,
had announced that he would suffer no interpolation of new issues into the Democratic creed.
In his pamphlet reply to Judge Black he repeated his determination with emphasis. "Suppose
it were true that I am a Presidential aspirant; does that fact justify a combination by a host
of other Presidential aspirants, each of whom may imagine that his success depends upon my
destruction, and the preaching a crusade against me for boldly avowing now the same principles
to which they and I were pledged at the last Presidential election! Is this a sufficient excuse
for devising a new test of political orthodoxy?... I prefer the position of Senator or even
that of a private citizen, where I would be at liberty to defend and maintain the well-defined
principles of the Democratic party, to accepting a Presidential nomination upon a platform
incompatible with the principle of self-government in the Territories, or the reserved rights
of the States, or the perpetuity of the Union under the Constitution."

  [Sidenote] "Globe," p. 658.

  [Sidenote] Jefferson Davis, Senate Speech, "Globe," May 17, 1860,
  p. 2155.

  [Sidenote] "Globe", March 1, 1860, p. 935.

This declaration very clearly defined the issue on one side. On the other side it was also
formulated with equal distinctness. Jefferson Davis, already recognized as the ablest leader
of the Buchanan wing of the Democratic Senators, wrote and submitted to the United States Senate,
on February 2, 1860, a series of resolutions designed to constitute the Administration or Southern
party doctrines, which were afterwards revised and adopted by a caucus of Democratic Senators.
These resolutions expressed the usual party tenets; and on two of the controverted points asserted
dogmatically exactly that which Douglas had stigmatized as an intolerable heresy.

Party discipline was so strong among the Democrats that public expectation looked confidently
to at least a temporary agreement or combination which would enable the factions, by a joint
effort, to make a hopeful Presidential campaign. But no progress whatever was made in that
direction. As the clans gathered at Charleston, the notable difference developed itself, that
while one wing was filled with unbounded enthusiasm for a candidate, the other was animated
by an earnest and stubborn devotion to an idea.

  [Sidenote] Murat Halstead, "Conventions of 1860."

"Douglas was the pivot individual of the Charleston Convention," wrote an observant journalist;
"every delegate was for or against him; every motion meant to nominate or not nominate him;
every parliamentary war was pro or con Douglas." This was the surface indication, and, indeed,
it may be said with truth, it was the actual feeling of the Northern faction of the Democratic
party. Douglas was a genuinely popular leader. He had the power to inspire a pure personal
enthusiasm. He had aroused such hero-worship as may be possible in modern times and in American
polities. Beyond this, however, the Lecompton controversy, and his open persecution by the
Buchanan Administration, made his leadership and his candidacy a necessity to the Northern
Democrats.

With Southern Democrats the feeling went somewhat deeper. Forgetting how much they owed him
in the past, and how much they might still gain through him in the future, they saw only that
he was now their stumbling-block, the present obstacle to their full and final success. It
was the Douglas doctrine, squatter sovereignty, and "unfriendly legislation," rather than the
man, which they had come to oppose, and were determined to put down. Any other individual holding
these heresies would have been equally obnoxious. They had no candidate of their own; they
worshiped no single leader; but they followed a principle with unfaltering devotion. They clung
unswervingly not only to the property theory, but advanced boldly to its logical sequence--Congressional
protection to slavery in the Territories.

Of the convention's preliminary work little is worth recording--there were the clamor and protest
of contesting delegations and small fire of parliamentary skirmishes, by which factions feel
and measure each other's strength. Caleb Cushing was made permanent chairman, for the triple
reason that he was from Massachusetts, that he was the ablest presiding officer in the body,
and was for the moment filled with blind devotion to Southern views. The actual temper of the
convention was made manifest by the ready agreement of both extremes to join battle in making
the platform before proceeding to the nomination of candidates. The usual committee of one
member from each State was appointed, and to it was referred the deluge of resolutions which
had been showered upon the convention.

Had an amicable solution of the slavery issue been possible, this platform committee would
have found it, for it labored faithfully to accomplish the miracle. But after three days and
nights of fruitless suggestion and persuasion, the committee reappeared in convention. Upon
four points they had come to either entire or substantial agreement. In addition to re-affirming
formally the Cincinnati platform of 1856, they advised the convention to favor, 1. The faithful
execution of the fugitive-slave law. 2. The protection of naturalized citizens. 3. The construction
of a Pacific railroad. 4. The acquisition of the Island of Cuba. But upon the principal topic,
the question of slavery in the Territories, they felt compelled to report that even an approximate
unanimity was impossible. In undisguised sorrow they proceeded to present two radically different
reports. The convention, not yet in the least realizing that the great Democratic party had
suffered fatal shipwreck in the secret committee-room, listened eagerly to the reports and
explanatory speeches of the majority and minority of the committee.

The majority report[1] planted itself squarely upon the property theory and Congressional protection.
Mr. Avery, of North Carolina, said it was presented in the name of 17 States with 127 electoral
votes, every one of which would be cast for the nominee. He argued that in occupying new Territories
Southern men could not compete with emigrant-aid societies at the North. These could send a
voter to the Territories for the sum of $200, while it would cost a Southern man $1500. Secure
political power by emigration, and permit the Territorial Legislatures to decide the slavery
question, and the South would be excluded as effectually as by the Wilmot proviso. Cuba must
be acquired, and the flag of this great country must float over Mexico and the Central American
States. But if you apply this doctrine of popular sovereignty, and establish a cordon of free-States
from the Pacific to the Atlantic, where in the future are the South to emigrate? They asked
the equal right to emigrate with their property, and protection from Congress during the Territorial
condition. They would leave it to the people in convention assembled, when framing a State
constitution, to determine the question of slavery for themselves. They had no purpose but
to have a vexed question settled, and to put the Democratic party on a clear unclouded platform,
not a doubled-faced one--one face to the North and one face to the South.

Henry B. Payne, of Ohio, presented and defended the report of the minority.[2] It asserted
that all questions in regard to property in States or Territories were judicial in their character,
and that the Democratic party would abide by past and future decisions of the Supreme Court
concerning them. Mr. Payne explained that while the majority report was supported by 15 slave
and two free-States,[3] representing 127 electoral votes, the minority report was indorsed
by 15 free-States,[4] representing 176 electoral votes. He argued that, by the universal consent
of the Democratic party, the Cincinnati platform referred this question of slavery to the people
of the Territories, declaring that Congress should in no event intervene one way or the other,
and that all controversies should be settled by the courts. Now the proposition of the majority
report was to make a complete retraction of those two cardinal doctrines of the Cincinnati
platform. The Northern mind had become thoroughly imbued with this great doctrine of popular
sovereignty. You could not tear it out of their hearts unless you tore out their heart-strings
themselves. "I repeat, that upon this question of Congressional non-intervention we are committed
by the acts of Congress, we are committed by the acts of National Democratic Conventions; we
cannot recede without personal dishonor, and, so help us God, we never will recede!"

Between these extremes of recommendation another member of the platform committee--Benjamin
F. Butler, of Massachusetts--proposed a middle course. He advocated the simple reaffirmance
of the Cincinnati platform. If it had suffered a double interpretation, so had the Bible and
the Constitution of the United States. But beyond serving to consume time and amuse the convention,
Mr. Butler's speech made no impression. The real tournament of debate followed, between William
L. Yancey, of Alabama, and Senator George E. Pugh, of Ohio.

  [Sidenote] Halstead, "Conventions of 1860," pp. 5, 48.

It turned out in the end that Mr. Yancey was the master-spirit of the Charleston Convention,
though that body was far from entertaining any such suspicion at the beginning. In exterior
appearance he did not fill the portrait of the traditional fire-eater. He is described as "a
compact middle-sized man, straight-limbed, with a square-built head and face, and an eye full
of expression"; "a very mild and gentlemanly man, always wearing a genuinely good-humored smile,
and looking as if nothing in the world could disturb the equanimity of his spirits." He had,
besides, a marvelous gift of persuasive oratory. He was the Wendell Phillips of the South,
for, like his Northern rival, he was a born agitator. Above all his colleagues, he was the
brain and soul and irrepressible champion of the pro-slavery reaction throughout the Cotton
States. He was tireless and ubiquitous; traveling, talking, writing, lecturing, animating every
intrigue, directing every caucus, making speeches and drafting platforms at every convention.
To defend, propagate, and perpetuate African slavery was his mission. He was the ultra of the
ultras, accepting the institution as morally right and divinely sanctioned, desiring its extension
and inclined to favor, though not then himself advocating, the re-opening of the African slave-trade.
He held that all Federal laws prohibiting such trade ought to be repealed so that each State
might decide the question for itself. Still more, Mr. Yancey was not only an agitator and fire-eater,
but for years an insidious, persevering conspirator to promote secession. Occupying such a
position, he was naturally the champion of the Cotton States at Charleston. The defense of
the ultra demands of the South was by common consent devolved upon him,[5] and it was understood
long beforehand that he was prepared with the principal speech from that side.

In full consciousness of the fact that he and his colleagues were then at Charleston with a
predetermination to force a programme of disruption expressly designed as a prelude to intended
disunion, Mr. Yancey stood up and with smiling face and silvery tones assured his hearers that
he and his colleagues from Alabama were not disunionists per se. Then he proceeded with his
speech. Only its key-note was new, but the novelty was of startling import to Northern delegates.
The Northern Democrats, he stated, were losing ground and falling before their victorious adversaries.
Why? Because they had tampered with, and pandered to, the anti-slavery sentiment. They had
admitted that slavery was wrong. This was surrendering the very citadel of their argument.
They must re-form their lines and change their tactics. They must come up to the high requirements
of the occasion and take a new departure. The remainder of his speech was an insinuating plea
for the property doctrine and Congressional intervention, for which the galleries and convention
rewarded him with long and earnest applause. Even if the great Southern agitator's speech had
been wanting in point and eloquence, success was supplied by the unmistakable atmosphere and
temper of this great Charleston audience.

The more astute of the Douglas delegates were struck with the dismay of a new revelation. Their
cause was lost--their party was gone. Senator Pugh, of Ohio, resented the dictation of the
advocates of slavery in a warmth of just indignation. He thanked God that at last a bold and
honest man had told the whole truth of the demands of the South. It was now before the country
that the South did demand an advanced step from the Democratic party. He accurately traced
the downfall of the Northern Democracy to her changing and growing exactions. Taunted with
their weakness, they were now told they must put their hands on their mouths and their mouths
in the dust. "Gentlemen of the South," said Mr. Pugh, "you mistake us--we will not do it."

Such language had never been heard in a Democratic National Convention, and the hall was as
still as a funeral. This was Friday night, the fifth day of the convention. "A crisis" had
long been whispered of as the skeleton in the party closet. It seemed to be at hand, and in
a parliamentary uproar the "question" was vehemently demanded, but the chairman skillfully
managed at length to secure an adjournment.

The "crisis" had in reality come on Thursday night, in the committee-room, in the hopeless
first double report of its platform committee. The dissolution of the convention did not take
place till the Monday following. A great party, after a vigorous and successful life of thirty
years, could not die easily. The speeches of Avery and Payne, of Yancey and Pugh, on Friday,
were recognized as cries of defiance, but not yet accepted as moans of despair. On Saturday
morning. President Buchanan's lieutenant, William Bigler, of Pennsylvania, essayed to ride
the storm and steer to a Southern victory. But he only succeeded in securing a recommittal
of both platforms to the committee. Nothing, however, was gained by the manoeuvre. Saturday
afternoon the committee once more reported the same disagreement in slightly changed phraseology;[6]
two antagonistic platforms, presenting the same sharp difference of principle--one demanding
Congressional intervention, the other declaring against it. Then the parliamentary storm was
unloosed for the remainder of that day with such fury that the chairman declared his physical
inability to continue a contest with six hundred gentlemen as to who should cry the loudest,
and threatened to leave the chair. On Monday, April 30, the seventh day of the convention,
a final decision was reached. The proposal of Butler's report simply to reaffirm the Cincinnati
platform was supported by only 105 ayes to 198 noes. Then, by 165 to 138, the convention voted
to substitute the minority report for that of the majority; in other words, to adopt the Douglas
non-intervention platform.

The explosion was near, but still delayed, and the delegates of the Cotton States sat sullenly
through a tangle of routine voting. Finally, the question was renewed on Butler's proposition
to adopt the Cincinnati platform pure and simple. This was the red flag to the mad bull. Mississippi
declared that the Cincinnati platform was a great political swindle on one half the States
of the Union; and from that time on the Cotton States ceased to act as a part of the convention.

That same Monday night the city of Charleston expressed its satisfaction by a grand jubilee.
Music, bonfires, and extravagant declamation held an excited crowd in Court-house Square till
a late hour; and in a high-wrought peroration Yancey prophesied, with all the confidence and
exultation of a triumphant conspirator, that "perhaps even now the pen of the historian is
nibbed to write the story of a new revolution."

---------- [1] MAJORITY REPORT.

[2] MINORITY REPORT. As Mr. Butler, who represented Massachusetts on the platform committee,
had submitted a separate report, Mr. Payne seems not to have included her in his total of free-States,
though he does appear to have included her electoral vote in his estimate.

[5] "The leadership at Charleston, in this attempt to divide and destroy the Democratic party,
was intrusted to appropriate hands. No man possessed the ability, or the courage, or the sincerity
in his object for such a mission in a higher degree than the gifted Yancey."--Stephen A. Douglas,
Senate Speech, May 16, 1860; Appendix to "Congressional Globe," p. 313.

[6] SECOND MAJORITY REPORT.

"Resolved, That the platform adopted by the Democratic party at Cincinnati be affirmed with
the following explanatory resolutions:

"First.

SECOND MINORITY REPORT.

"1.

[7] "To obtain the aid of the Democracy in this contest, it is necessary to make a contest
in its Charleston Convention. In that body Douglas's adherents will press his doctrines to
a decision. If the States-Rights men keep out of that convention, that decision must inevitably
be against the South, and that either in direct favor of the Douglas doctrine, or by the indorsement
of the Cincinnati platform, under which Douglas claims shelter for his principles." "The States-Rights
men should present in that convention their demands for a decision, and they will obtain an
indorsement of their demands, or a denial of these demands. If indorsed, we shall have greater
hope of triumph within the Union. If denied, in my opinion, the States-Rights wing should secede
from the convention, and appeal to the whole people of the South; without distinction of parties,
and organize another convention upon the basis of their principles, and go into the election
with a candidate nominated by it, as a grand constitutional party. But in the Presidential
contest a black Republican may be elected. If this dire event should happen, in my opinion
the only hope of safety for the South is in a withdrawal from the Union before he shall be
inaugurated; before the sword and treasury of the Federal Government shall be placed in the
keeping of that party. I would suggest that the several State legislatures should by law require
the Governor, when it shall be made manifest that the black Republican candidate for the Presidency
shall receive a majority of the electoral votes, to call a convention of the people of the
State, to assemble in ample time to provide for their safety before the 4th of March, 1861.
If, however, a black Republican should not be elected, then, in pursuance of the policy of
making this contest within the Union, we should initiate measures in Congress which should
lead to a repeal of all the unconstitutional acts against slavery. If we should fail to obtain
so just a system of legislation, then the South should seek her independence out of the Union."--Speech
of W.L. Yancey, delivered at Columbia, S.C., July 8, 1859. Copied in The New York "Tribune,"
July 20, 1859.

The corroboration and fulfillment of the plot here indicated are found in the official proceedings
of the Alabama Convention and the Alabama Legislature. The convention on January 13, 1860,
expressly instructed its delegation at Charleston to secede in case the ultra-Southern doctrines
were not incorporated in the National Democratic platform, and sent Mr. Yancey as a delegate
to execute their instructions, which he did as the text states.

The Alabama Legislature, on its part, passed a joint resolution, which the Governor approved,
February 24, 1860, providing "that upon the election of a President advocating the principles
and action of the party in the Northern States calling itself the Republican party," the Governor
should forthwith call a convention of the State. This convention was duly called after the
election of Mr. Lincoln, and passed the secession ordinance of Alabama.

CHAPTER XIV

THE BALTIMORE NOMINATIONS

Though the compact voting body of the South had retired from the Charleston Convention, her
animating spirit yet remained in the numbers and determination of the anti-Douglas delegates.
When on Tuesday morning, May 1, the eighth day, the convention once more met, the Douglas men,
with a view to making the most of the dilemma, resolved to force the nomination of their favorite.
But there was a lion in the path. Usage and tradition had consecrated the two-thirds rule.
Charles E. Stuart, of Michigan, tried vainly to obtain the liberal interpretation, that this
meant "two-thirds of the votes given," but Chairman Cushing ruled remorselessly against him,
and at the instance of John B. Howard, of Tennessee, the convention voted (141 to 112) that
no person should be declared nominated who did not receive two-thirds of all the votes the
full convention was entitled to cast.

This sealed the fate of Douglas. The Electoral College numbered 303; 202 votes therefore were
necessary to a choice. Voting for candidates was begun, and continued throughout all the next
day (Wednesday, May 2). Fifty-seven ballots were taken in all; Douglas received 145-1/2 on
the first, and on several subsequent ballots his strength rose to 152-1/2. The other votes
were scattered among eight different candidates with no near approach to agreement.[1]

The dead-lock having become unmistakable and irremediable, and the nomination of Douglas under
existing conditions impossible, all parties finally consented to an adjournment, especially
as it was evident that unless this were done the sessions would come to an end by mere disintegration.
Therefore, on the tenth day (May 3), the Charleston Convention formally adjourned, having previously
resolved to reassemble on the 18th of June, in the city of Baltimore, with a recommendation
that the several States make provision to fill the vacancies in their delegations.

Mr. Yancey and his seceders had meanwhile organized another convention in St. Andrew's Hall.
Their business was of course to report substantially the platform rejected by the Douglas men,
and for the rejection of which they had retired. Mr. Yancey then explained to them that the
adoption of this platform was all the action they proposed to take until the "rump democracy"
should make their nomination, when, he said, "it may be our privilege to indorse the nominee,
or our duty to proceed to make a nomination." Other seceders were more impatient, and desired
that something be done forthwith; but as the sessions were continued to the second and third
day, their overflowing zeal found a safety-valve in their speeches. Mr. Yancey's programme
prevailed, and they also adjourned to meet again in Richmond on the 11th of June.

At the time of the disruption, rumors were current in Charleston that the movement, if not
prompted, was at least encouraged and sustained by telegrams from leading Senators and Representatives
then at their Congressional duties in Washington. They recited the withdrawal of eight States
at Charleston, and indorsed the step without qualification. "We cannot refrain," said the address,
"from expressing our admiration and approval of this lofty manifestation of adherence to principle,
rising superior to all considerations of expediency, to all trammels of party, and looking
with an eye single to the defense of the constitutional rights of the States." They then alleged
that the other Democratic States remained in the convention only to make a further effort to
secure "some satisfactory recognition of sound principles," declaring, however, their determination
also to withdraw if their just expectation should be disappointed. The address then urged that
the seceders should defer their meeting at Richmond, but that they should come to Baltimore
and endeavor to effect "a reconciliation of differences on a basis of principle." If the Baltimore
Convention should adopt "a satisfactory platform of principles,"--and their votes might help
secure it,--then cause of dissension would have ceased. "On the other hand," continued the
address, "if the convention, on reassembling at Baltimore, shall disappoint the just expectations
of the remaining Democratic States, their delegations cannot fail to withdraw and unite with
the eight States which have adjourned to Richmond."

This was a shrewd and crafty appeal. Under an apparent plea for harmony lurked an insidious
invitation to Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, Missouri, Tennessee, Kentucky, California,
Oregon, and Pennsylvania to join the seceders, reconstruct the Democratic party, cut off all
the "popular sovereignty" recusants, and secure perpetual ascendency in national politics through
the consolidated South. The signers of this address, forgetting their own constant accusation
of "sectionalism" against the Republicans, pretended to see no impropriety in proposing this
purely selfish and sectional alliance. If it succeeded, their triumph in the Union was irresistible
and permanent; if it failed, it served to unite the South for secession and a slave confederacy.

If any Democrat harbored a doubt that the proposed reconciliation meant simply a reunion on
the Davis-Yancey platform, the doubt was soon removed. In the Senate of the United States,
Jefferson Davis was pressing to a vote his caucus resolutions, submitted in February, to serve
as a model for the Charleston platform; and this brought on a final discussion between himself
and Douglas.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," May 7, 1860, p. 1940.

  [Sidenote] Appendix. "Globe," May 15 and 16, 1860, pp. 312, 313,
  and 316.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," May 17, 1860, p. 2151.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 2153.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 2155.

Davis had begun the debate on the 7th of May by a savage onslaught on "Squatter Sovereignty"--a
fallacy, he said, fraught with mischief more deadly than the fatal upas, because it spread
its poison over the whole Union. Douglas took up the gauntlet, and, replying on May 15 and
16, said he could not recognize the right of a caucus of the Senate or the House to prescribe
new tests for the Democratic party. Senators were not chosen for the purpose of making platforms.
That was the duty of the Charleston Convention, and it had decided in his favor, platform,
organization, and least of all the individual, by giving him a majority of fifty votes over
all the other candidates combined. He reprobated the Yancey movement as leading to dissolution
and a Southern confederacy. The party rejected this caucus platform. Should the majority, he
asked, surrender to the minority? Davis, replying on the 17th, contended that Douglas had,
on the Kansas policy of the Administration, put himself outside the Democratic organization.
He desired no divided flag for the party. He preferred that the Senator's banner should lie
in its silken folds to feed the moth; "but if it impatiently rustles to be unfurled in opposition
to ours, we will plant our own on every hill." Douglas retorted, and again attacked the caucus
dictation. "Why," he asked, "are all the great measures for the public good made to give place
to the emergency of passing some abstract resolutions on the subject of politics to reverse
the Democratic platform, under the supposition that the representatives of the people are men
of weak nerve who are going to be frightened by the thunders of the Senate Chamber?" Davis
rejoined, that they wanted a new article in the creed because they could not get an honest
construction of the platform as it stood. "If you have been beaten on a rickety, double-construed
platform, kick it to pieces, and lay one broad and strong, on which men can stand." A somewhat
restrained undertone of personal temper had been running through the debate, and Jefferson
Davis could not resist an expression of contempt for his opponent. He was hampered by his own
attitude as a candidate. Douglas, who had received 150 votes at Charleston, and who expected
the whole at Baltimore, could not let his tongue wag as freely as Davis, who had received only
one vote and a half at Charleston, and could count on none at Baltimore; else he might have
denounced him on the score of patriotism. For Jefferson Davis, like Yancey, only not so constantly,
and like so many others of that secession coterie, blew hot and cold about disunion as occasion
demanded. This same debate of May 17 furnished an instructive example.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," May 17, 1860, p. 2151.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," May 17, 1860, p. 2156.

But after Douglas had made a damaging exposure of Yancey's disunion intrigues, which had come
to light, and had charged their animus on the Charleston seceders, Davis changed his tone.
He said there were not more than seventy-five men in the lodges of the Southern Leagues. He
did not think the Union was in danger from them. "I have great confidence," said he, "in the
strength of the Union. Every now and then I hear that it is about to tumble to pieces; that
somebody is going to introduce a new plank into the platform, and if he does, the Union must
tumble down; until at last I begin to think it is such a rickety old platform that it is impossible
to prop it up. But then I bring my own judgment to bear, instead of relying on witnesses, and
I come to the conclusion that the Union is strong and safe--strong in its power as well as
in the affections of the people."

The debate made it very plain that it was not reconciliation but domination which the South
wanted. So in due time (May 25) the Jefferson Davis resolutions, affirming the "property" theory
and the "protection" doctrine, were passed by a large majority of the Democratic Senators.

  [Sidenote] June 18, 1860.

When the Charleston Convention proper reassembled at Baltimore, it was seen that the programme
laid out by Jefferson Davis and others in their published address had been adopted. The seceders
had met at Richmond, taken a recess, and now appeared at Baltimore making application for readmission.
But some of the States that withdrew at Charleston had sent contesting delegations, and it
resolved itself into tangled rivalry and quarrel of platforms, candidates, and delegations
all combined. For four days a furious debate raged in the convention during the day, while
rival mass-meetings in the streets at night called each other "disorganizes," "bolters," "traitors,"
"disunionists," and "abolitionists." When Douglas, before a test-vote was reached, sent a dispatch
suggesting that the party and the country might be saved by dropping his name and uniting upon
some other candidate, his followers suppressed the dispatch.

On the fifth day at Baltimore the Democratic National Convention underwent its second "crisis,"
and suffered its second disruption. This time the secession was somewhat broadened; Chairman
Cushing resigned his seat, and Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky,
and California withdrew wholly or in part to join the States which had gone out at Charleston.

For the time the disunion extremists were keeping their scheme too well masked for us to establish
clearly its historical record. But the signs and footprints of their underplot are evident.
Here at Baltimore, as at Charleston, and as on every critical occasion, Mr. Yancey was conspicuously
present. Here, as elsewhere, he was no doubt persistently intriguing for disunion in secret
while ostentatiously denying disunion purposes in public.

  [Sidenote] Halstead, "Conventions of 1860."

But little remained to do after the disruption at Baltimore, and that little was quickly done.
The fragments of the original convention continued their session in the Front-street Theater,
where they had met, and on the first ballot nominated Stephen A. Douglas for President by an
almost unanimous vote. The seceders organized, under the chairmanship of Caleb Cushing, in
Maryland Institute Hall, and also by a nearly unanimous ballot nominated as their candidate
for President, John C. Breckinridge, of Kentucky. Then Mr. Yancey, who in a street mass-meeting
had declared that he was neither for the Union per se nor for disunion per se, but for the
Constitution, announced that the Democracy, the Constitution, and, through them, the were yet safe.

A month prior to the reassembling of the Charleston "Rumps" above described, Baltimore had
already witnessed another Presidential convention and nomination, calling itself peculiarly
"National," in contradistinction to the "sectional" character which it charged upon the Democratic
and Republican parties alike. This was a third party, made up mainly of former Whigs whose
long-cherished party antagonisms kept them aloof from the Democrats in the South and the Republicans
in the North. In the South, they had been men whose moderate anti-slavery feelings were outraged
by the repeal of the Missouri Compromise and the Lecompton trick. In the North, they were those
whose traditions and affiliations revolted at the extreme utterances of avowed abolitionists.
In both regions many of them had embraced Know-Nothingism, more as an alternative than from
original choice. The Whig party was dissolved; Know-Nothingism had utterly failed--their only
resource was to form a new party.

In the various States they had, since the defeat of Fillmore in 1856, held together a minority
organization under names differing in separate localities. All these various factions and fragments
sent delegations to Baltimore, where they united themselves under the designation of the Constitutional
Union Party. They proposed to take a middle course between Democrats and Republicans, and to
allay sectional strife by ignoring the slavery question.

  [Sidenote] 1860.

Delegates of this party, regular and irregular, from some twenty-two States, convened at Baltimore
on the 9th of May. John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky, called the meeting to order, and Washington
Hunt, of New York, was made temporary and permanent chairman. They had no reasonable hope of
direct success at the polls in November; but they had a clear possibility of defeating a popular
choice, and throwing the election into the House of Representatives; and in that case their
nominee might stand on high vantage-ground as a compromise candidate. This possibility gave
some zest to the rivalry among their several aspirants. On their second ballot, a slight preponderance
of votes indicated John Bell, of Tennessee, as the favorite, and the convention made his nomination
unanimous. Mr. Bell had many qualities desirable in a candidate for President. He was a statesman
of ripe experience, and of fair, if not brilliant, fame. Though from the South, his course
on the slavery question had been so moderate as to make him reasonably acceptable to the North
on his mere personal record. He had opposed the repeal of the Missouri Compromise and the Lecompton
outrage. But upon this platform of ignoring the political strife of six consecutive years,
in which he had himself taken such vigorous part, he and his followers were of course but as
grain between the upper and nether millstones. Edward Everett, one of the most eminent statesmen
and scholars of New England, was nominated for Vice-President.

This party becomes historic, not through what it accomplished, but by reason of what a portion
of it failed to perform. Within one year from these pledges to the Constitution, the Union,
and the enforcement of the laws, Mr. Bell and most of his Southern adherents in the seceding
States were banded with others in open rebellion. On the other hand, Mr. Everett and most of
the Northern members, together with many noble exceptions in the border slave-States, like
Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky, kept the faith announced in their platform, and with patriotic
devotion supported the Government in the war to maintain the Union.

---------- [1] The first ballot stood: Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois, 145-1/2; James Guthrie,
of Kentucky, 35-1/2; Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York, 7; R.M.T. Hunter, of Virginia, 42; Andrew
Johnson, of Tennessee, 12; Joseph Lane, of Oregon, 6; Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, 1-1/2;
Isaac Toncey, of Connecticut; 2-1/2; Franklin Pierce, of New Hampshire, 1.

CHAPTER XV

THE CHICAGO CONVENTION

  [Sidenote] 1860.

In recognition of the growing power and importance of the great West, the Republican National
Convention was called to meet in Chicago on the 16th of May. The former Presidential canvass,
though resulting in the defeat of Frémont, had nevertheless shown the remarkable popular strength
of the Republican party in the country at large; since then, its double victory in Congress
against Lecompton, and at the Congressional elections over the Representatives who supported
Lecompton, gave it confidence and aggressive activity. But now it received a new inspiration
and impetus from the Charleston disruption. Former possibility was suddenly changed to strong
probability of success in the coming Presidential election. Delegates were not only quickened
with a new zeal for their principles; the growing chances spurred them to fresh efforts in
behalf of their favorite candidates. Those who had been prominently named were diverse in antecedents
and varied in locality, each however presenting some strong point of popular interest. Seward,
of New York, a Whig of preeminent fame; Chase, of Ohio, a talented and zealous anti-slavery
Democrat, an original founder of the new party; Dayton, of New Jersey, an old Whig high in
personal worth and political service; Cameron, of Pennsylvania, a former Democrat, now the
undisputed leader of an influential tariff State; Bates, of Missouri, an able and popular anti-slavery
Whig from a slave-State; and last, but by no means least in popular estimation, Lincoln, of
Illinois.

  [Sidenote] Pickett to Lincoln, April 13, 1859. MS.

