"Pro pelle cutem," the chosen motto of the Company, was perhaps humorously understood as conveying
loosely the notion of an exchange of peltries; for certainly the vindictive principle, "a skin
for a skin," did not mark their dealings with the Indian tribes. From the first they were fortunate
in encountering more peaceable races than those opposing the colonists further south; and a
regular trade was conducted upon the basis of a fixed scale of values, the unit of calculation
being one beaver skin. Thus a gun could be procured for eight, or ten, or twelve winter beavers,
according to the classification of the skin by size and weight. One beaver was the equivalent
of a hatchet, or four pounds of shot, or half a pound of beads, or a pound of tobacco. A laced
coat was worth six beavers, and a looking-glass and comb cost two beavers; and so on through
all the luxuries and necessities of Indian life, other pelts being always reduced to the terms
of beaver skins.

A traveller[41] who visited the country at a somewhat later period of the eighteenth century
has drawn a picture of the ornate ceremony, which, on the Indian side at least, transformed
barter into a solemn function, and provided the exiled traders with a comedy of manners. He
describes how, salutes having been fired on both sides, the Indians are elaborately welcomed
within the fort, where, after long silence and much tobacco-smoking, the subject of the visit
is distantly broached, and the chief receives propitiatory gifts of brightly coloured apparel:
"A coarse cloth coat, either red or blue, lined with baize, and having regimental cuffs; and
a waistcoat and breeches of baize. The suit is ornamented with orris lace. He is also presented
with a white orris shirt; his stockings are of yarn, one of them red, the other blue, and tied
below the knee with worsted garters; his Indian shoes are sometimes put on, but he frequently
walks in his stocking feet; his hat is coarse, and bedecked with three ostrich feathers of
various colours, and a worsted sash tied round the crown; a small silk handkerchief is tied
round his neck, and this compleats his dress."

[Footnote 41: Umfreville, Present State of Hudson's Bay, 1790.]

The Chief thus gaily equipped is conducted back from the fort to his own tent. "In the front
a halbard and ensign are carried; next a drummer beating a march; then several of the factory
servants bearing the bread, prunes, pipes, tobacco, brandy, etc. Then comes the Captain [Chief],
walking quite erect and stately, smoaking his pipe, and conversing with the Factor."

Afterwards came the smoking of the sacred calumet, the pledge of peace and unity, followed
by the inspection of the merchandise, and a speech from the Chief in this wise:--

       "You told me last year to bring many Indians to trade,
   which I promised to do; you see I have not lied; here are
   a great many young men come with me; use them kindly, I
   say; let them trade good goods; I say! We lived hard last
   winter and hungry, the powder being short measure and
   bad, I say! Tell your servants to fill the measure, and
   not to put their thumbs within the brim; take pity on us,
   take pity on us, I say! We paddle a long way to see you;
   we love the English. Let us trade good black tobacco,
   moist and hard twisted; let us see it before it is
   opened. Take pity on us, take pity on us, I say! The
   guns are bad; let us trade light guns, small in the hand
   and well shaped, with locks that will not freeze in the
   winter, and red gun cases. Let the young men have more
   than measure of tobacco; cheap kettles, thick and high.
   Give us good measure of cloth; let us see the old
   measure; do you mind me? The young men love you, by
   coming so far to see you; take pity, take pity, I say;
   and give them good goods; they like to dress and be fine.
   Do you understand me?"

By such yearly functions, by gifts, and a sober friendliness never dissociated from the authority
of the ruling race, the English company held its sway after the French had retired.

About this time, however, loud complaints were heard on all hands of the want of enterprise
of the Hudson's Bay Company in not seizing the opportunities afforded by the charter. Its trade
was lethargic, its traders were timid or slothful, its people possessed none of that audacity
and adventure which had sent Frenchmen like Du Lhut and La Vérendrye into the wilds intent
on territory or trade. They yawned and were content with the trade which came their way. It
seemed as though they smugly counted on their business virtue to attract, and their yearly
gifts and patronage to allure the fur-hunting tribes. A world lay spread around them, and they
remained at the doors of their posts and forts. No joy of the woods possessed them, no faith
in the future drew them on; they followed the makers of Empire, guessing nothing of what Empire
meant, hating their rivals for gifts they neither possessed nor desired. One Joseph Robson,
who worked as surveyor in the northern forts in 1744, relates a conversation held that year
with the captain at York Factory:--

       "I expressed my surprise," he writes, "that the Company
   did not send Englishmen up the rivers to encourage and
   endear the natives, and by that means put a stop to the
   progress of the French....He said that he believed the
   French would have all the country in another century. To
   which I could not help immediately replying that such an
   alienation could only be effected through the remissness
   of the English." Robson next requested leave to travel
   inland; and "this brought on dismal tales of the
   difficulties to be encountered in such an expedition; and
   when I talked of going up rivers, I was told of
   stupendous heaps of ice and dreadful waterfalls, which
   would not only obstruct my passage but endanger my life.
   To confirm this, he said that Governor Maclish once
   attempted to go a little way up Nelson River to look for
   timber in order to build a factory, but found such heaps
   of ice in the river that they were discouraged from
   proceeding any higher."[42]

Umfreville, the writer and traveller already quoted, likewise challenges the Company for its
"total want of spirit, to push on its work with that vigour which the importance of the contest
deserves. The merchants from Canada," he continues, "have been heard to acknowledge that were
the Hudson's Bay Company to prosecute their trade in a spirited manner, they must be soon obliged
to give up all thoughts of penetrating into the country; as from the vicinity of the Company's
factories to the inland parts, they can afford to undersell them in every branch."

[Footnote 42: Robson, Six Years' Residence in Hudson's Bay, 1752.]

This advantage enabled the older Company to reach the stations on the Bay at an earlier season
of the year than was possible for their rivals by the overland route. Yet such was the zeal
animating the Canadian companies that, conquering all difficulties of season and situation,
they delivered goods to the Indians in their villages and tepees, thus anticipating their journey
to the north; and some time after the Conquest forty canoes of about four tons burden each
left the St. Lawrence every year for the interior.

The fall of Quebec marked a crisis in the affairs of the Hudson's Bay Company, and for a time
indeed it seemed as if it also would pass away with the old régime. Their foes at this time
began to multiply; for while the veteran coureurs de bois of Canada were ready enough, after
the Conquest, to take service under their new masters, the Colonial forces were now further
augmented by a large body of Scotch settlers, partly Jacobite refugees, and partly soldiers
of the Highland regiments of Amherst and Wolfe. With vitality thus renewed the Canadians now
turned to the west, their emissaries penetrating as far westward as Sturgeon Lake on the Saskatchewan,
where a trading station was erected to divert the Indians from the forts at Hudson's Bay. But
suddenly the "Adventurers of England" awoke from their long sleep, and Hearne, their agent,
was forthwith sent to open up new territories, across which a chain of stations soon marked
the successive stages of their progress, from Cumberland House to distant Athabasca. The spirit
of competition was now aflame, and on many occasions in the course of the next fifty years
it caused the opposing Companies to pass the limits of commercial strife and contend in open
warfare, until mutual interest and vice-regal authority at last combined to reconcile them.

A great and threatening rival to the Hudson's Bay Company had come. The North-West Company,
founded at Montreal in 1782, under the leadership of Simon McTavish, was founded on principles
which made it a power against the older organisation, its agents receiving a stimulus to enterprise
from a share in the profits of the undertaking and pay double that given by the English Company.
These advantages proved so potent, that soon after beginning operations the North-Westers were
able to send abroad skins to four times the value of those exported by their great rival.

But this zeal was met in a new and robust spirit which held the issue of the conflict long
in doubt. The beginning of the new century saw its force increase--a civil war carried on beyond
the vision of the nations in the vast forests of the north. The story of this Homeric struggle,
however, with its romantic episodes and opposing heroes--Cuthbert Grant, Colin Robertson, Duncan
Cameron, and the rest--the battle of Greys against Blues, in which the chiefs of the north,
issuing with their wild bois brûles from the stronghold of Fort William,[43] raided and harried
the despised "old countrymen," the "Pork-eaters," the "Workers in gardens," or suffered reprisals
from these underestimated rivals; the history of Lord Selkirk's settlement in the Red River,
around which the final battle wound in the year when Europe was witnessing the last great effort
of Napoleon--all this does not fall within the scope of the present work.

[Footnote 43: Founded in honour of William M'Gillivray in 1805.]

In 1821, under pressure from the Duke of Richmond, the Greys and Blues agreed to merge their
forces in an equal partnership, which, retaining the name of the older Company, was framed
on the co-operative principle so effective in the success of the North-Western concern. Having
received a fresh charter from the Government, the new Company began a peaceful and not less
profitable career, until in exchange for an indemnity of three hundred thousand pounds, and
a grant of seven million acres in the best districts of the North-West Territories, the feudal
rights of the Hudson's Bay Company were at last taken over by the Dominion of Canada. The Company,
however, still pursues its prosperous way. Its forts and posts are sources of influence, centres
of safety; its officers and men a devoted and upright band who have proved their right to the
gratitude of the empire--unliveried policemen of good government and national integrity.

CHAPTER XX

THE NEW CENTURY

Quebec entered upon the nineteenth century equipped with the machinery of constitutional government,
which was, however, clogged in action by unhappy divisions within the city. The four years
of Sir James Craig's rule were disturbed by a truceless war between the Legislative Assembly
and the Governor, whose arbitrary temper ill qualified him to lead a people still groping for
standing-ground within the area of their new constitution. He looked at popular institutions
with the distrust natural to an old soldier, and the period of his administration became known
in the annals of the province as "the reign of little King Craig." Born at Gibraltar, he had
entered the army at the tender age of fifteen, and having earned rapid promotion on many battlefields,
he finally reached the rank of major-general at the close of the American revolutionary war.
Further experience in India and the Mediterranean increased his reputation, and in the autumn
of 1807 he arrived in Quebec full of military honours, and imbued with the high political views
then held by the most exclusive wing of the Tory party. The members of the Legislative Council
and the administrative clique drew close about the person of this new champion, and in the
same degree the French majority in the Legislative Assembly held aloof. The burning questions
of the day, whether the judges should sit and vote in Parliament, whether the Assembly could
communicate directly with the Home Government--these were but the occasions of an antagonism
really due to diversity of race and temperament; for, as Lord Durham discovered a generation
later, "this sensitive and polite people" revolted, not so much against political disability,
as against the exclusive manners and practices of a ruling class far removed from themselves
by language and mode and code, who ruffled their racial pride at every turn.

The new Governor was now the forcible instrument of this unsympathetic power. With an undue
sense of the importance of the vice-royalty, the ipse dixit of "the little king" dissolved
Parliament on more than one occasion. On the other side, Le Canadien, the journal of the French
party, rhetorically stood for liberty, fraternity, and equality as against arbitrary government.
Moderate men, wavering for a time, were at last scandalised by its editorial violence, and
rallied to the side of the Governor. The situation quickly became acute, and stringent measures
of repression were adopted by Sir James Craig and his councillors. The offending journal was
suppressed; five recalcitrant officers of militia were relieved of their command; and, finally,
the city guards were strengthened to meet the peril of a possible insurrection. Soon a new
element of danger appeared in the threatened war between England and the United States, offering
to the aggrieved party a tempting occasion for redress. Fortunately, however, neither the unwisdom
of the English Government nor the neighbourhood of a hostile power availed to drive or lure
the Canadians into the crooked path of rebellion. As the past had already proved, their country's
peril was sufficient to unite in hearty concord all parties, French and English, in the defence
of the common heritage; the experience of half a century of British rule having convinced even
the survivors of the Ancien Régime that however haughty or aloof officials might be, security,
order, and justice prevailed under the British flag.

Considering the especial temptations to treason bearing upon the French population at this
crisis, such loyal conduct is the more praiseworthy. In the first place, it was maintained
throughout a war which was part of England's life-and-death struggle against France, the mother-country
of French Canadians. Again, apart from this natural affinity with the chiefest enemy of England,
material causes operated yet further to strain their faith; for the enterprise of Montgomery
and Arnold was about to be resumed; and the French must choose either to suffer the terrors
of a hostile invasion, or to join the armies of the United States in driving the British power
for ever from the Continent. Finally, as if these tests of loyalty were not enough, the port
of Quebec was invaded by English press-gangs, who terrorised the quays of the Lower Town and
kidnapped able-bodied youths of both races.

Thus, instead of the support on which they calculated, the invading army was to encounter a
resolute and united foe. Nor were the causes of Canadian loyalty far to seek. The French population,
by nature loyal and content, were unwilling to sever the ties of noble monarchical tradition
binding them to the past, and embark upon the troubled seas of American politics, there to
be lost among loose and powerful majorities out of sympathy with their conservative ideals,
their temperament, and those racial rights so fully acknowledged by England after the Conquest.
Also east and west, the Maritime Provinces and Upper Canada contained an element already devotedly
attached to the Crown. The sacrifices of the United Empire loyalists made almost sacred the
soil of Upper Canada, now Ontario. Men who had already braved the anger of their fellow-citizens
in the American Colonies, and abandoned their homes to witness to the ideal of a united empire,
were not likely at the last to throw away their crown of service and stultify themselves before
the world.

Upper Canada was already a flourishing colony, containing at the outbreak of this American
war about a quarter of the population of the two provinces combined. To balance inferiority
in point of numbers, the peculiar circumstances of the English colonists--affinity of race
to the mother-country, a fertile territory, the memory of special benefits received--combined
to bring the zealous British sentiment of the new province into special prominence at this
crisis. Inspired by the wise counsels of Sir Guy Carleton, the British Government had there
formerly pursued a generous policy now about to bear opportune fruit; for when, at the end
of the War of Independence, the loyalist refugees were crowding to the appointed places of
rendezvous along the northern frontier, facing the future unprovided, the large sum of £3,000,000
sterling had been granted to recompense their losses, in addition to further help allowed more
needy settlers. Under the four years of Colonel Simcoe's sympathetic rule (1791-95), the province
had trebled its population, a vigorous immigration policy enticing crowds of wavering loyalists
or enterprising speculators from the south.

Yet the inhabitants of Upper Canada, for all their special interest in the British connection,
hardly exceeded the Lower Province in the zeal with which they rose to meet the new invasion.
Indeed, the United States had entirely miscalculated the strength of this spirit of loyalty,
which proved a more potent inspiration than their own vaunted superiority in resources and
population: for, on the American side, recruits came slowly forward, and the movement had none
of the spontaneity evident among their adversaries. The "Loyal and Patriotic Society," established
by Bishop Strachan, then rector of York, undertook to provide for the national wants of Canada
created by the war. The sum of £120,000 was raised in Upper Canada and the Maritime Provinces,
while the Quebec Legislature contributed no less than £250,000 towards preparations for defence.
At the same time, the colonials were zealously enlisting, all men between the ages of sixteen
and forty-five being required to serve in the militia; and their strength was further supplemented
by more than four thousand regulars, scattered throughout the country.

The Commander-in-Chief of these forces was Sir George Prevost, who had come to Quebec as Governor
in succession to Sir James Craig, a change much welcomed by the French Canadians; for although
the new Governor was not an able general, he possessed the gentle art of conciliation, a gift
of almost equal value at that critical time. As the New England States had been averse to war
from the beginning, the adjoining Maritime Provinces of Canada were spared the trial of invasion,
and the quarrel was fought out along the southern border of Upper and Lower Canada.

The American Commander, General Dearborn, divided his army of invasion into three parts, intending
first to secure a base of operations at the three important points of Detroit, Niagara, and
Queenston, and thence to overrun the Upper Province. He was confident that, with the help of
the disaffected colonists, these columns would soon be able to converge and march together
upon the capital. General Hull, of Michigan, commanded the army of the west; Van Rensselaer
led the army of the centre against Niagara and Queenston; while the army of the north, under
Dearborn himself, moved from Albany by Lake Champlain towards Ontario.

On the Canadian side, Major-General Brock appeared to realise most clearly the need for decided
measures. His commanding presence--he was six feet three inches in height--and his immense
muscular strength were joined to an intense and chivalrous spirit which was a deciding influence
in uniting the colonists to energetic defence. His practical sense appears in an order directing
officers "On every occasion when in the field to dress in conformity to the men, in order to
avoid the bad consequence of a conspicuous dress,"--an expedient only lately adopted in more
modern warfare, and not until bitter necessity forced it.

In other respects, however, we have outgrown the ideas entertained at that time on the subject
of martial appearance, for the writer of the Ridout Letters[44] says, immediately after the
battle on Queenston Heights--

       "The American prisoners, officers, and men are the most
   savage-looking fellows I ever saw. To strike a greater
   terror in their enemies they had allowed their beards on
   their upper lips to grow. This, however, had no other
   effect upon us than to raise sensations of disgust."

[Footnote 44: Ten Years of Upper Canada in Peace and War, 1805-1815, being the Ridout Letters,
with Annotations, by Matilda Edgar, 1891.]

Brock was a native of the Island of Guernsey, and had served with the armies of Britain in
many parts of the world, being also present with Nelson at Copenhagen; but had already served
officially in Canada for ten years before the war. He now found himself opposed to the vainglorious
Hull; nor was it long before he justified his reputation and won glory for the arms of Canada
by capturing the American General at Detroit, together with 2500 troops and thirty-three cannon.
Brock's ally on this occasion was the Chief Tecumseh, an Indian of reputed supernatural birth,
the natives having been induced to throw in their lot with the British colonists in consequence
of the seizure of the old port of Michillimackinac by a small force of regulars and Canadian
voyageurs. Following his career of victory, Brock was soon afterwards confronted by the army
of the Centre, consisting of six thousand Americans, and engaged in the memorable battle on
Queenston Heights. Here, after a long and doubtful fight, the colonial forces were once more
successful, though they paid a heavy price for victory in the loss of their wise and brave
commander, whose name is endeared to all Canadians, and whose renown grows with succeeding
generations.

Meanwhile General Dearborn had undertaken the invasion of Lower Canada with the army of the
north, setting out from Albany to attack Montreal by way of Lake Champlain; and to oppose him
Colonel De Salaberry, at the head of the French Canadian regiment of Voltigeurs, together with
three hundred Indians and a force of rural militia, held an advanced post on the River Lacolle.
De Salaberry was distinguished by long experience of foreign service in the British army, having
already confronted the Americans, when as a mere boy-subaltern he had covered the evacuation
of Matilda. In 1795 he commanded a company of Grenadiers in the expedition to Martinique; and
some years later held the post of honour with the Light Brigade at the capture of Flushing.
And now at last he brought his experience to the defence of his native province, where his
name and fame are not more deeply venerated than in the English provinces.

Reaching the outpost of Lacolle late in November, a strong force of Dearborn's army found the
Canadian militia securely intrenched at Blairfindie. But the season was already far advanced;
and now successive blows fell in the news of Hull's surrender at Detroit and of the defeat
on the Oueenston Heights; so that at last the American commander despaired of success against
the spirited defenders of Lower Canada, and decided to abandon the plans against Montreal and
to fall back forthwith on Albany. Thus, apart from some successes won by the United States
upon the sea, the result of the first campaign was altogether favourable to the Colonies.

The second year of the war put the loyalty of Lower Canada to more crucial tests. Once more
the Americans planned and exploited a threefold attack, in the west, centre, and east. In the
west, they were repulsed at Frenchtown by General Proctor; but in the centre this loss was
more than counter-balanced by the control of Lake Ontario by American vessels, leading to the
capture of Fort York,[45] the capital of the Upper Province, and of Fort George, near Niagara,
the Canadian generals, Sheaffe and Vincent, being compelled to fall back upon Kingston and
Burlington Heights. In following up these successes, however, the Americans were severely checked
at Stoney Creek, near Hamilton; while another blow was inflicted upon them by the skilful strategy
of Lieutenant Fitzgibbon, who, having been warned of the enemy's advance by the heroic Laura
Secord, devised a trap in which, with a handful of Canadians and Indians, he captured a large
force under Colonel Boerstler, at Beaver Dams.

[Footnote 45: Now Toronto.]

But the tide of war turned once more against the Canadians, when the British fleet on Lake
Erie surrendered to Commodore Perry, and Proctor, the victor of Frenchtown, met with a humiliating
defeat at the hands of General Harrison, a future President of the Republic, Chief Tecumseh
being among the slain. On the ocean, however, British naval prestige was restored, and among
the events of this year was the celebrated duel between the Shannon and the Chesapeake. But
while, in the west and centre, the issue was hanging thus in doubt, events more decisive were
happening in the east.

The army of the north was sent once more against Montreal and Quebec, this time in two divisions,
the first of which was to march northward from Albany, and at Châteauguay to effect a junction
with the second division, coming down the St. Lawrence in three hundred boats from Sackett's
Harbor. The St. Lawrence army, commanded by General Wilkinson, was intercepted by a force of
French Canadians, and sustained a memorable defeat at Chrystler's Farm, near Long Sault Rapids;
and the force from Albany was now to meet a similar fate. Late in September this first division,
under General Hampton, crossed the Canadian frontier south of the historical outpost of Isle-aux-Noix;
but as De Salaberry was once more in command of the advanced line of defence, again holding
a strong position at Blairfindie, the enemy, in order to effect the necessary junction with
the other division, was compelled to make a long detour by way of the Châteauguay River. In
spite of the difficulties of the route, they pressed forward towards the shore of Lake St.
Louis. De Salaberry was not dismayed by this new movement, and hastening westward from Blairfindie,
he ascended the Châteauguay and took up a strong position on ground intersected by deep ravines.
The same tactics which had destroyed Braddock's legion at Monongahela in 1775, were now brought
to bear with equal effect upon the Americans themselves. The Canadian general, having destroyed
the bridges, erected a triple line of defence, under cover of which he held his force, consisting
of only three hundred Canadians, a band of Indians, and a few companies of Highlanders. Early
in the morning of October 26th, the American army advancing to the ford, the banks of the river
suddenly blazed with musketry fire. For four hours the invaders strove in vain to force the
passages of the river in the face of De Salaberry's death-dealing trenches, bravely attempting
to outflank the Voltigeurs; but before those unyielding breastworks, numbers and impetuosity
were both unavailing; and, at last, after heavy losses, Hampton was constrained to recall his
men and retire from the field. This victory, nobly fought and won by the French Canadians,
ranks with Carillon in the annals of the Lower Province, and the bullet-riven flags of both
engagements are still shown among the trophies of Quebec. The loyalty and courage of the French
population had decided the issue of another campaign in favour of Great Britain.

In 1814 the chief events of the war in Canada happened once more about Lake Champlain and Niagara.
The invaders were again driven back with loss at Lacolle Mill; but at the end of the season
they recovered ground in this quarter by dispersing the British army and the fleet of Lake
Champlain at Plattsburg, an engagement which led to the recall of Sir George Prevost, whose
bad generalship was blamed for this reverse. Meanwhile, the hottest battle of all the war had
been fought in the Upper Province, when the American armies, planning to reach Kingston, and
having won some minor successes, were finally scattered at Lundy's Lane, near Niagara Falls,
and compelled to fall back upon Lake Erie.

But apart from the fortunes of war, when peace was finally proclaimed by the Treaty of Ghent
in 1814, the chief gain to the British cause, so far at least as Canada was concerned, lay
not so much in the undoubted advantage held throughout those three trying years, but rather
in the sure knowledge that the people of French Canada had remained loyal at a crisis when
their disaffection would have turned the scale and lost to England her remaining North American
colonies. As De Salaberry wrote to the House of Assembly, in reference to the victory at Châteauguay:
"In preventing the enemy from penetrating into the province, one common sentiment animated
the whole of my three hundred brave companions, and in which I participated, that of doing
our duty, serving our sovereign, and saving our country from the evil of an invasion. The satisfaction
arising from our success was to us adequate recompense...."

Temptations to treason had been multiplied; for besides many grievances at home, the French
inhabitants were constantly exposed to the emissaries of the United States, who preached specious
doctrines of liberty throughout the parishes of Quebec; and it was indeed fortunate that the
unique influence of the Catholic clergy, powerfully led by Bishop Plessis, was actively exerted
on the side of loyalty, just as at a later time they earned a sincere tribute from Lord Durham,
and "a grateful recognition of their eminent services in resisting the arts of the disaffected."

But the loyalty of the French population, which would not permit them to take advantage of
the foreign difficulties of their rulers, was soon to be further tried and shaken through a
prolonged period of political agitation.

CHAPTER XXI

THE MODERN PERIOD

The history of Quebec in the period succeeding the war of 1812 is a long record of internecine
strife, due to certain conditions of the Canada Act of 1791, a measure halting midway between
military rule and responsible government. The Act had been well intended, and it was, maybe,
a necessary stage in constitutional development; but its immediate result was to organise opposing
factions into formal assemblies, each bent on checking the policy of the other, and bringing
the government of the country to a deadlock. On one side, the interests of the English were
identified with the Legislative Council, a body appointed by the King for life, and owing no
responsibility to the suffrages of the people; while, on the other, a French majority ruled
in the popular assembly, whose authority, powerful in influence, impotent in administration,
controlled neither the executive officers nor financial affairs. Accordingly, the dispute between
the Assembly and the English ascendency, or "Family Compact," soon resolved itself into a struggle
for and against responsible government.

An insoluble problem was now presented to successive governors--Sherbrooke, Richmond, Dalhousie,
Kempt, Aylmer, Gosford. All in turn addressed themselves to the work of pacification, and all
retired baffled by that racial egotism which granted favours with airs of patronage, or met
continued concessions with ever increased demands. The English were naturally apprehensive
of a French dominance, which might prove dangerous to the security of constitutional union;
the French Canadians were too keenly alert for signs of tyranny, too suspicious of a power
sullied by nepotism and greed of office. Of all the long series of viceroys, perplexed, discomfited,
yet honourably bent on doing their duty to both races and to the constitution, one of the wisest
was Sir John Cope Sherbrooke, to whom Prevost resigned the reins of government in 1815. He
early saw the expediency of liberal measures, and his wise administration led moderate men
to believe that a peaceful era of constitutional progress was forward. Unhappily, however,
these hopes were dashed by the succession of the Duke of Richmond two years later--a chivalrous
but uncompromising advocate of the extreme views of his party in England. The Duke, however,
almost atoned for the political narrowness of his administration by the stimulus he brought
to the social life of the capital and the sincerity of his belief that by personal influence
he could harmonise contending factions. Under his magnificent patronage Château St. Louis became
once more the scene of lavish hospitality. Dinners, dances, and theatricals were the order
of the day; and fashionable officers, issuing from their quarters in the citadel, found distractions
in St. Louis Street and the Grande Allée, due compensation for all they had left at home. For
the exiled sportsman, too, there was the racecourse on the Plains of Abraham, riding to the
hounds on the uplands of Lorette, snipe at Sillery Cove, and ducks on the St. Charles Flats.

With pomp and circumstance the Duke of Richmond made progress through his dominions, everywhere
speaking, entertaining, endeavouring to conciliate. He travelled up the St. Lawrence by steamer
and thence by canoes along the shore of Lake Ontario to Toronto and Niagara. Next, he undertook
the more arduous journey in the course of which he was to meet a tragic end.

The little settlement of Richmond, named after the Governor himself, lay thirty miles from
Perth, at some distance west from the Ottawa river. Here, following the trail through the woods,
the Duke had penetrated in search of adventure. That night he and his small staff stayed at
the village inn, and the next day they started in canoes on their way down to the junction
with the Rideau river. Hardly had they commenced their journey, however, when the Duke's actions
began to excite alarm. The attendants sought in vain to restrain his violence, and the boats
drawing in to shore the party landed. Breaking loose from all control, the Duke plunged into
the woods, and was found soon afterwards lying exhausted in a fit of hydrophobia, the result
of a bite by a tame fox two months before at Sorel. He died the same night; and the body was
presently carried back to Quebec, where for two days it lay in state at the Château. An impressive
service was held in the English cathedral, and the body of one who had been Canada's most splendid
governor since the days of De Tracy and Frontenac, was deposited in the cathedral vault. Minute
guns boomed forth from the citadel, and Quebec was plunged from gaiety into mourning.

The social brilliance of the Duke of Richmond's rule, however, could not blind the popular
party to the inadequacy of the policy for which he stood; and discontent soon began to take
a bitter and dangerous form. The concessions grudgingly doled out by Dalhousie and Kempt, succeeding
governors, did not touch the main issue of the question, and even when Lord Aylmer removed
the last serious grievance, only withholding from the Assembly the right to vote upon the salaries
of civil officers, it might have seemed that there was no further ground for agitation. But
the essential grievance lay not so much in material disabilities as in the limitation of the
abstract right to self-government; and Joseph Papineau, the eloquent and ardent leader of the
movement, summed up his party's political creed in the new watchword--La nation Canadienne.
Parry and thrust, the fight grew faster, and the temper of the combatants became heated. Papineau
was elected to the speakership of the Assembly, a challenge the Governor answered by prorogation.
Next, the Progressives demanded an elective council, and the Government replied that such a
step would mean abandoning the province wholly to the French, who were yet unprepared to wield
complete popular power, and would moreover endanger the interests of the English minority.
The demand was formally rejected by Lord John Russell on the return of Lord Gosford's commission
in 1835.

The fiery eloquence of Papineau now led the more ardent of his followers to the point of rebellion;
and for a time it seemed as if Lower Canada would throw away the name for steadfast loyalty
she had earned through so many years. The rebellion of 1837, however, met with no serious support
throughout the Province of Canada; and, except as an original centre of agitation, Quebec did
not figure in it at all. At the same time defensive measures were not omitted, the leading
citizens, both French and English, forming themselves into a regiment at the disposal of the
Governor-General. Parliament House was set apart for a drill-hall and guard-house, and garrison
duty was performed here during the whole of an anxious winter. Montreal, however, suffered
violence at the hands of a misguided mob; and in the country parishes the habitants were harangued
after Mass on Sunday by deputies of the Fils de Liberté. Yet, while they punctuated these fervent
addresses with shouts of "Vive Papineau" and "Point de despotisme!" they neither knew nor cared
what the struggle for responsible government really meant. In the parishes along the Richelieu,
indeed, Papineau and his followers made a greater commotion; but, except in Bellechasse and
L'Islet, the contented habitants of the St. Lawrence forgot the seditious procession almost
as soon as it passed. These ingenuous enfants du sol had no political aspirations beyond the
preservation of their religion, their language, and their ancient customs; and, in spite of
the bitter prophecies of peripatetic agitators, they refused to believe that their peace and
comfort and quiet life were in any real danger from English oppression. The Government easily
coped with this factitious rising, which nowhere reached the importance of an organised revolt.
But while the military problem was soon solved, important political results followed hard upon
such palpable tokens of discontent. English ministers now turned most serious attention to
the constitutional defects of the colony, and decided to make a full and authoritative inquiry.
Gosford's successor, Sir John Colborne, was now recalled; and on April 24th, 1838, the Earl
of Durham sailed for Canada as High Commissioner, and he proved to be the keenest statesman,
save Frontenac, who had figured in the history of the country.

Lord Durham was at this time forty-six years of age, and into that comparatively short life
he had already crowded a remarkable political record. At twenty-one he entered the House of
Commons as member for the county of Durham, at once identifying himself with the party of parliamentary
reform--indeed, he is even credited with the drafting of the first Reform Bill. An experience
of five years in the cabinet with Grey and Palmerston, and of two years as ambassador at St.
Petersburg, marked him out as a politician and diplomatist of the first rank. A certain stateliness
and formality of character appears, however, to have made him many enemies in England, and
they did not scruple to gratify their dislike or jealousy during his mission to Canada. Their
enmity is echoed in a trivial paragraph in The Times, describing an incident which happened
on the outward journey:--

       "A letter from Portsmouth states that on the evening of
   Lord Durham's arrival in Portsmouth, his lordship and
   family dined at one table and his staff at another, in
   the same room and at the same hour. We suppose we shall
   soon hear of Lord Durham's reviving the old custom of
   arranging his guests above and below the
   salt-cellar."[46]

On the 27th of May, 1838, H. M. S. Hastings and a squadron of gunboats and frigates dropped
anchor in the harbour of Quebec. Flags were flying gaily from tower and bastion to welcome
the High Commissioner, who was attended ashore by a retinue eclipsing in brilliance even that
of the Duke of Richmond, and further guarded by two cavalry regiments, on their way to reinforce
the regular forces in the country. As such a suite could not be accommodated in the old Château,
Parliament House was fitted up as a residence; and here Lord Durham established himself with
a magnificence suitable to a monarch, but unusual in a viceroy of Quebec. On his daily drives
he was accompanied by three or four equerries in scarlet and gold, who galloped before his
carriage to clear the road; and at his frequent entertainments guests received only the most
stately hospitality. It is not unnatural that this large ceremony in a new and poor country
impaired his influence, and at first increased the difficulties of his mission.

[Footnote 46: The Times, 3rd May, 1838.]

The situation was indeed one requiring the wisdom of a ripe diplomatist. Previous to the rebellion
of 1837, government had become impossible owing to the antagonism of the racial elements existing
together in the province; and on Lord Durham's arrival he found the constitution of the Colony
suspended, supreme power being lodged in his own person as High Commissioner, whose slightest
indiscretion might lose the vast territory to the Crown. That he was keenly alive to the delicacy
of his task is shown by the chivalrous, almost romantic generosity with which he met the natural
prejudices of the French, and tolerated their utmost bitterness against his own compatriots;
and although this imaginative and liberal spirit met with disapproval from the ruling powers
in England, and was finally the cause of his withdrawal, his conciliatory policy was amply
justified by the event. Indeed, it is certain that the insular assurance--by no means absent
from subsequent public life in England--which prompted Lord Gosford, the previous Governor,
to declare that the ulterior object of the French Canadian politicians was "the separation
of this country from England, and the establishment of a republican form of government," and
who met the imaginary demand with a sharp and scornful negative, would soon have brought Canada
to the verge of a revolutionary war.

The proclamation published immediately on Lord Durham's arrival in Canada gave promise of fair
dealing to all parties. "I invite from you," he assures them, "the most free, unreserved communications.
I beg you to consider me as a friend and arbitrator, ready at all times to listen to your wishes,
complaints, and grievances. If you, on your side, will abjure all party and sectarian animosities,
and unite with me in the blessed work of peace and harmony, I feel assured that I can lay the
foundations of such a system of government as will protect the rights and interests of all
classes....

       "In one province the most deplorable events have rendered
   the suspension of its representative constitution,
   unhappily, a matter of necessity; and the supreme power
   has devolved upon me. The great responsibility which is
   thereby imposed on me, and the arduous nature of the
   functions which I have to discharge, naturally make me
   most anxious to hasten the arrival of that period when
   the executive power shall again be surrounded by all the
   constitutional checks of free, liberal, and British
   institutions."[47]

The problem to be solved is stated and partly solved in the famous report on the affairs of
Canada subsequently published by the High Commissioner--perhaps the most remarkable document
in British colonial history. It showed the keenest insight into knotted complications, and
at the same time it made practical and far-seeing suggestions, which reduced the problem to
its simplest terms, and prepared the way for a legislative union upon a sovereign scale, and
with a provincial autonomy having the happiest results.

[Footnote 47: Quebec Gazette, 29th May, 1838.]

Nor could any lasting reform be accomplished unless the hostile divisions of Lower Canada were
first reconciled. As far as the French population were concerned, he found an explanation of
their antagonism, not so much in their unjust exclusion from political power, as in the grudging
and churlish patronage with which privileges were one by one conceded; while, on the other
hand, the Loyalists were intolerant to a degree, regarding every favour shown to their rivals
as a slight put upon themselves, and professing principles which were thus summed up by one
of their leaders: "Lower Canada must be English at the expense, if necessary, of not being
British." Elsewhere Lord Durham confesses the overbearing character of Anglo-Saxon manners,
especially offensive to a proud and sensitive people, who showed their resentment, not by active
reprisal, but by a strange and silent reserve. The same confession might still be made concerning
a section of English-speaking Canadians, who seem to consider it a personal grievance that
French Canadians should speak the French language. Lord Durham would probably have reminded
them that conquest does not mean that birthright, language, and custom, spirit and racial pride,
are spoils and confiscations of the conqueror.

As for the grievances he came to remedy, Lord Durham dwells upon the circumstances which practically
excluded French Canadians from political power, leaving all positions of trust and profit in
the hands of the English minority; for although they numbered only one in four of the inhabitants,
this privileged class claimed both political and social supremacy as though by inherent right.
Owing no responsibility whatever to the legislature, they could afford to smile at the protestations
of that superfluous body, and pursue their own wilful course.

Coming to practical counsel, the High Commissioner pointed out that there was no need for any
change in the principles of government, or for any new constitutional theory to remedy the
disordered state. The remedy already lay in the British constitution, whose principles, if
consistently followed, would give a sound and efficient system of representative government.
His first suggestion was the frank concession of a responsible executive. All the officers
of state, with the single exception of the Governor and his secretary, should be made directly
answerable to the representatives of the people; these officers, moreover, should be such as
the people approved, and should therefore be appointed by the Assembly. He further advised
that the Governor should be forbidden to employ the resources of the British Constitution in
any quarrel between himself and the Legislature, resorting to imperial intervention only when
imperial interests were at stake.

His second recommendation was to bring the Upper and Lower Provinces together by a legislative
union.

This plea for unity among all the elements of political life in Canada, premature as it was,
marked, perhaps, the limitation of Lord Durham's scheme. But although he was mistaken in the
degree of allowance to be made for the distinct individuality of the French province--a defect
afterwards made good on Dominion Day--the work he did, the counsel he gave, made an epoch in
the progress of Canadian nationality, and prepared the ground for the completer measures of
the future.

The treatment of rebels was the most critical question with which Lord Durham had to deal,
and it was ultimately the cause of his withdrawal, so timid and unchivalrous was the Government
of the day in the face of political and journalistic criticism. While granting a general amnesty
to the rank and file of the offenders, the High Commissioner offended constitutional pedants
by deporting eight of the leading revolutionists without trial to Bermuda; and although this
measure was taken advisedly, with the purpose, as it turned out, of saving the prisoners from
the heavier penalty they would certainly have received from a regular court, the Viceroy's
numerous enemies did not scruple to use this technical omission as a basis for attacks upon
his policy. Moreover, when he was bitterly denounced in the House of Lords by Brougham and
Lyndhurst, the ministry of Melbourne offered but a feeble defence of their representative;
with the result that Durham, on hearing of this desertion by the Cabinet which had appointed
him, sent in his resignation.

The departure of the High Commissioner was deeply regretted by those who were able to appreciate
the wisdom and sincerity of his administration, though indeed it was otherwise regarded by
the leaders of that social clique in Quebec whose family compact he had resolutely condemned.
Yet he had builded better than England or Canada or himself then knew, and his tireless energy
and imagination left behind him the material for a sound structure. Besides the masterly report
of his commission, a visible, if less important, monument to his beneficent work for Canada
still stands in the magnificent terrace at Quebec, known to-day under an improved form and
by another name, yet in a larger measure his conception and his achievement. He sailed from
Quebec on the 1st of November, 1838, the ceremony of his departure being hardly less imposing
than that marking his arrival five months before. Troops lined the streets from the Governor's
residence to the Queen's wharf, the bands playing "Auld Lang Syne" to express the regret felt
at parting from a sincere and strong administrator, thus sacrificed to his enemies by a vacillating
Ministry. At this last evidence of sympathy and appreciation the hauteur of the Viceroy relaxed,
and, as he passed on board the frigate Inconstant homeward bound--as he himself records--his
heart went out towards the people of Canada, by whom, at least, his motives were understood
and honoured; and this feeling of gratitude to perhaps the most simple and sincere of all British
peoples remained with him to the end.

By an act brought forward by Lord John Russell, the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada were
formally united, and the first Parliament of the two Canadas was opened in the city of Kingston
in June, 1841. This experiment partly meeting the needs of the country, and satisfying that
high civic and national sense which make Britishers confident that they can govern themselves,
opened up the way for that freer union which has since 1867 made a nation of a series of scattered
territories.

The legislative union of the Upper and Lower Provinces had not been concluded without sharp
opposition; for the citizens of Quebec foresaw that her influence must inevitably wane under
the new conditions, and they set themselves strongly to defeat the measure. However, the ancient
city lay too far east to remain the capital of the expanding territories, and with an almost
exclusively French population it could not remain the political pivot of a British dependency.
Opposition was overborne in due time, and the Act of Union shifted the national centre of gravity
farther west.

Canada was now embarked upon a course of self-government, and was never again to feel the hand
or obey the voice of England in her internal politics. So much the union had accomplished.
The problems of the succeeding period concerned Canada alone, and she was now free to seek
a better way to her national organisation. A responsible legislature had been conceded, yet
with defects in constitution bearing hardly upon the character and traditions of the French
element. Thus, although the population of the Lower Province numbered two hundred thousand
more than that of her partner, the two provinces were allowed an equal number of representatives
in the new house; the French language was cast aside; and the united assembly was saddled with
the heavy debts previously contracted by the western province. It was not long before an agitation
was started to readjust the relations between Upper and Lower Canada, and free the French from
conditions which pressed heavily upon their material interests and racial sentiment. The new
problem was, to find a way by which the principle of self-government recently conceded to Canada
as a whole might be reconciled with the free action and growth of its component provinces;
and for twenty-five years this question engaged the politicians of the country.

Time, however, brought a decided change in the attitude of the two opposing sections of the
legislature, as one by one the grievances of the French were removed. In 1848 the restrictions
placed upon the use of their language in the Parliament were done away; and by the surprising
advance of the West, the hardship of disproportionate representation was taken over by Upper
Canada. Twenty years after the Union, the Western Province had already a population greater
by three hundred thousand than that of her rival. In the later period of the discussion, therefore,
the position of parties was reversed, the French defending the existing order, the Upper Province
calling out for reconstruction. But statesmen on both sides now began to aim at larger and
more patriotic ends than the exclusive advantage of their own province; and in 1860 a scheme
for a federal government was proposed by George Brown, a Liberal statesman, intended to bring
the interests of the provinces into line with those of the country at large. The movement was
premature; but four years later a convention met at Quebec to discuss the union of all the
provinces of British North America, the chairman being Étienne Paschal Taché, who died before
the work was consummated. There met the fathers of Confederation, John A. Macdonald, chief
of them all--George Brown, George Étienne Cartier, Alexander Galt, Thomas D'Arcy M'Gee, William
M'Dougall, Alexander Campbell, Hector Langevin, James Cockburn--together with Charles Tupper
and other representatives of the Maritime Provinces.

These proposals were well received in London, and in 1866 the Canadian Legislature met for
the last time under the old conditions. The British North America Act became law in March of
the following year, the Earl of Carnarvon being Colonial Secretary; and on the 1st of July
the new Dominion, under command of John A. Macdonald, was launched by Governor-General Viscount
Monk on that prosperous course which still conducts the premier colony of England into an ever
brighter future.

Valiant in asserting her predominance there was, however, a siege against which the fortress
and bastions of Quebec were of no avail. Left behind in the march of progress, commercial and
political, her prestige as a centre of national influence slowly declined, and Montreal and
Toronto took over that pre-eminence which had been hers for centuries. Yet nothing could rob
the city of her maternal grandeur. She saw no longer in the West the wild prospects and the
fertile wastes, but a sturdy nation settling down to its destiny, and spreading out over half
a continent; so realising her ancient prophecy, so fulfilling her laborious hopes, the reward
of zealous toil and martyrdom. Colbert's dream was now come true, save for the flag which floated
over the happy homesteads in the peaceful land. These homesteads of the West, in the region
of the great lakes, were indeed to be centres of growth and progress and vast wealth; yet the
venerable fortress on the tidal water ever was, and still remains, the noblest city of the
American continent. There still works the antique spirit which cherishes culture and piety
and domestic virtue as the crown of a nation's deeds and worth. There still the influence of
a faithful priesthood, and a university in some respects more distinguished than any on the
American continent, keep burning those fires of high tradition and a noble history which light
the way to national grace of life, if not to a sensational prosperity. Apart from the hot winds
of politics--civic, provincial, and national--which blow across the temperate plains of their
daily existence, the people of the city and the province live as simply, and with as little
greedy ambition as they did a hundred years ago.

The rumble of the calèches and the jingling of the carrioles in the old streets are now pierced
by the strident clang of the street-car; and the electric light sharpens garishly the hard
outlines of the stone mansions which sheltered Laval, Montcalm, and Murray; but modern industry
and municipal emulation sink away into the larger picture of fortress life, of religious zeal,
of Gallic mode, of changeless natural beauty. No ruined castles now crown the heights, but
the grim walls still tell of

    "Old, far-off, unhappy things,
    And battles long ago."

The temper of the people is true. Song and sentiment are much with them, and in the woods and
in the streams--down by St. Roch and up by Ville Marie--chansons of two hundred years ago mark
the strokes of labour as of the evening hour when the professional village story-teller cries
"cric-crac" and begins his tale of the loup-garou, or rouses the spirit of a pure patriotism
by a crude epic of some valiant atavar; when the parish fiddler brings them to their feet with
shining eyes by the strains of O Carillon. They are not less respectful to the British flag,
nor less faithful in allegiance because they love that language and that land of their memories
which they know full well is not the Republican France of to-day when their Church suffers
at the hands of the State. If ever the genius of the Dominion is to take a high place in the
fane of Art, the soul and impulse of the best achievement will come from Old Quebec, which
has produced a sculptor of merit, Hébert; a renowned singer, Albani; a poet crowned by the
French Academy, Louis Fréchette; and has given to the public life of the country a distinction,
an intellectual power, and an illuminating statesmanship in the persons of Étienne Taché, Sir
George Cartier, and Sir Wilfrid Laurier. Enlarged understanding between the two peoples of
the country will produce a national life marked by courage, energy, integrity, and imagination.
Though Quebec has ceased to be an administrative centre of the nation, the influence of the
people of her province grows no less, but is woven more and more into the web of the general
progress. The Empire will do well to set an enduring value on that New France so hardly won
from a great people, and English Canada will reap rich reward for every compromise of racial
pride made in the interests of peace, equality, and justice.

APPENDIX I

GOVERNORS OF CANADA

Early Viceroys and Lieutenant-Generals.

    Sieur de Roberval, 1540.

    Marquis de la Roche, 1598.

    Charles de Bourbon, Comte de Soissons, 1612 (Champlain Governor).

    Henri de Bourbon, Prince de Condé, 1612.

    Duc de Montmorency, 1619.

    Henri de Lévis, Duc de Vantadour, 1625.

Governors under the Company of One Hundred Associates.

    Samuel de Champlain, 1633.

    M. Bras-de-fer de Chastefort, 1635.

    M. de Montmagny, 1636.

    M. d'Ailleboust, 1648.

    M. Jean de Lauson, 1651.

    M. Charles de Lauson, 1656.

    M. d'Ailleboust, 1657.

    Viscomte d'Argenson, 1658.

    Baron d'Avaugour, 1661.

Governors-General under Royal Government.

    M. de Mézy, 1663.

    Seigneur de Courcelles, 1665. (Marquis de Tracy, Viceroy, 1665-67.)

    Count Frontenac, 1672.

    M. de la Barre, 1682.

    M. de Denonville, 1685.

    Count Frontenac, 1689.

    M. de Callières, 1699.

    Marquis de Vaudreuil, 1703.

    Marquis de Beauharnois, 1726.

    Count de Galissonière, 1747.

    Marquis de la Jonquière, 1749.

    Marquis du Quesne, 1752.

    Marquis de Vaudreuil-Cavagnac, 1755.

Governors of the Province of Quebec.

    Gen. Sir Jeffrey Amherst, 1756.

    Gen. James Murray, 1763.

    Gen. Sir Guy Carleton, 1768 (Lieutenant-Governor from 1766).

    Gen. Sir Frederick Haldimand, 1778.
       (Henry Hamilton and Col. Henry Hope Lieutenant-Governors, 1785-87.)

    Lord Dorchester (Sir Guy Carleton), Governor-General of British
    North America, 1787.

Governors-General during the Fifty Years when Canada was divided.

    Lord Dorchester, 1791.

    Gen. Robert Prescott, 1797-1805 (Lieutenant-Governor, 1796).

    Sir James Craig, 1807.

    Sir George Prevost, 1811.

    Sir John Cope Sherbrooke, 1816.

    Duke of Richmond, 1818.
      (Hon. James Monck and Gen. Sir Peregrine Maitland administrators,
       1819-20.)

    Earl of Dalhousie, 1820.

    Sir James Kempt, 1828.

    Lord Aylmer, 1830.

    Lord Gosford, 1835.

    Sir John Colborne, 1838.

    Lord Durham, 1838.

    Hon. C. Poulett Thompson (afterwards Lord Sydenham), 1839.

Governors-General from the Union of the Canadas until Confederation.

    Lord Sydenham (C. P. Thompson), 1841.

    Sir Charles Bagot, 1842.

    Lord Metcalfe, 1843.

    Earl Cathcart, 1846.

    Earl of Elgin, 1847.

    Sir Edmund Bond Head, 1854.

    Viscount Monk, 1861-67.

Governors-General of the Dominion.

    Viscount Monk, 1867.

    Lord Lisgar (Sir John Young), 1868.

    Earl Dufferin, 1872.

    Marquis of Lorne, 1878.

    Marquis of Lansdowne, 1883.

    Earl of Derby (Lord Stanley of Preston), 1888.

    Earl of Aberdeen, 1893.

    Earl of Minto, 1898.

APPENDIX II

LEADERS AND PREMIERS AFTER THE UNION OF 1841

    Hon. Robert Baldwin and Louis H. Lafontaine, 1841.

    Sir Dominick Daly, 1843.

    Hon. W. H. Draper, 1844.

    Hon. H. Sherwood, 1847.

    Robert Baldwin and Hon. Louis H. Lafontaine, 1848.

    Sir Francis Hincks, and Hon. A. N. Morin, 1851.

    Sir Allan M'Nab and Sir E. P. Taché, 1855.

    Sir John A. Macdonald, 1856.

    Hon. George Brown, 1858.

    Sir George E. Cartier and Sir John A. Macdonald, 1858.

    Hon. John Sandfield Macdonald and Hon. Antoine A. Dorion, 1861.

    Sir E. P. Taché, 1864.

    Sir N. Belleau, 1865.

Prime Ministers since Confederation, 1867.

    Sir John A. Macdonald, 1867-73.

    Hon. Alexander Mackenzie, 1873-78.

    Rt. Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald, 1878-91.

    Sir J. J. C. Abbott, 1891-92.

    Rt. Hon. Sir J. S. D. Thompson, 1892-94.

    Sir Mackenzie Bowell, 1894-96.

    Sir Charles Tupper, Bart., 1896 (April-July).

    Rt. Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, 1896.

APPENDIX III

LISTE DES GOUVERNEMENTS DE LA PROVINCE DE QUEBEC DEPUIS L'ÉTABLISSEMENT DE LA CONFÉDÉRATION 1867

    Ministère Chauveau                1867

    Ministère Ouimet                  1873

    Ministère de Boucherville         1874

    Ministère Joly                    1878

    Ministère Chapleau                1879

    Ministère Mousseau                1882

    Ministère Ross                    1884

    Ministère Taillon                 1887

    Ministère Mercier                 1887

    Ministère de Boucherville         1891

    Ministère Taillon                 1892

    Ministère Flynn                   1896

    Ministère Marchand                1897

    Ministère Parent                  1900

INDEX

Abercrombie, General, 248, 253, 256

Abraham, Heights of, origin of name, 396

Acadians, expulsion of, 203

Adet, M., 384

Aiguillon, Duchesse d', 52

Ailleboust, D', 238

Aix-la-Chapelle, Treaty of, 191

Albanel, Père, 396

Albemarle, Duke of, 145

American Revolution, 342 sqq., 428

Amherst, General, 253, 266, 273, 295, 307, 313, 317, 324

Andaraqué, attack on, 93

Andrews, Miss, 370

Angélique des Meloises, 199, 227, 380

Annapolis, so named, 178

Anne of Austria, 166, 225

Anse du Foulon, 292, 317

Anson, Admiral, 191

Anstruther's Regiment, 295, 317

Anville, Duc d', 190

Argenson, D', Governor, 166 sqq.

Arlington, Lord, 400

Arnold, Benedict, 344 sqq.

Arnoux, the surgeon, 300

Austrian Succession, 187

Autray, D', on the Mississippi, 128

Avaugour, Baron d', 85, 167

Aylmer, Lord, 301, 308, 444, 447

Baffin, the explorer, 394

Bailey, Governor, 404 sqq.

Beauharnois, Marquis de, 162 n., 184

Beaujeu, Captain, 131, 215

Beaumanoir, 199

Beaver Company, 395

Beaver Dams, Battle of, 434

Belleisle, M. de, Minister of War, 265

Bellona, statue of, 320

Berryer, French Colonial Minister, 262

Bienville, Céloron de, 192

Bigot, François, 195 sqq., 244, 261, 303, 336, 337, 380

Bizard, sent to Montreal, 119

Black, the informer, 389

Blasphemy, law against, 102

Boerstler, Colonel, 434

Bois brûles, 419

Bonne, M. de, 270

Boscawen, Admiral, 212, 253

Boucher, Pierre, 86

Bougainville, General de, 196, 246, 250, 262, 270, 279, 283,
  302 sqq., 307, 310 sqq.

Bourdon, Jean, 395

Bourlamaque, General, 246, 266, 289

Braddock, Major-General, 211 sqq., 436

Bradstreet, Colonel, 260

Bragg's regiment, 295, 317

Breakneck Stairs, 43

Brébeuf, Père, Jean de, 34, 41, 67 sqq., 80 sqq.

Bressani, Père, 81

Bridgar, Governor, 406

British North America Act, 468

Brock, Major-General Sir Isaac, 426, 431 sqq.

Brougham, Lord, 462

Brown, George, 466

Brulé, Étienne, 32

Brunswicker Regiment, 366

Burke, Edmund, 374

Burton, Colonel, 295, 298, 317

Buttes-à-Neveu, 105

Cabot, the brothers, 3, 4

Cadet, 196, 335, 336

Caen, Émery de, 34, 39, 40

Cahiagué, the Huron capital, 32

Callières, M. de, 163 sqq., 175

Cambrai, Peace of, 5

Cameron, Duncan, 418

Campbell, Alexander, 467

Campbell, Donald, 342

Campbell, Duncan, 257

Campbell's Highlanders, 257

Canada, Act of, 1791, 443

Canada, population in 1700, 179

Canada, Upper, 374, 427

Carignan-Salières, regiment of, 89 sqq., 92, 94, 96, 100,
  161, 226, 380

Carillon, 249, 255 sqq.

Carion, Lieutenant, 119

Carleton, Sir Guy. See Dorchester, Lord

Carnarvon, Earl of, 468

Carnival, 172

Carroll, Charles, 364

Cartier, George Étienne, 466

Cartier, Jacques, life and voyages of, 5 sqq.

"Castle Dangerous," 161

Cataraqui, or Fort Frontenac, now Kingston, Ont., 124, 373

Censitaires, 94

Chabanel, Père, 82

Chabot, Philippe de Brion, 5, 12

Champigny, Intendant, 142

Champlain, Samuel de, life and discoveries of, 19 sqq., 238

Champlain's Chapel, 43

"Chariot, the," 314

Charles I., execution of, 104

Charles II., 406

Charles V., The Emperor, 5, 12

Charlesburg-Royal, 14, 16

Charlevoix describes Quebec, 106

Chase, Samuel, 364

Chastes, Sieur de, 20, 45

Château Bigot, 199

Châteauguay River, battle of, 436

Chatham, William Pitt, Earl of, 252 sqq.

Chaumont, Père, 76

Cheeseman, Captain, 356

Chesapeake and Shannon, 435

Chien d'Or, 201

Chrystler's Farm, battle of, 436

Church, and the French Revolution, 384

Church, influence of, 45, 54, 66 sqq., 85, 238 sqq.

Church, the first in New France, 30

Clarence, Prince William Henry, Duke of, 368

Clergy, influence of, 441

Clive, General Robert, 262

"Clive of Quebec, the," 110

Cockburn, James, 467

Colbert, Jean Baptiste, 86, 96, 117, 120, 168, 169, 468

Colborne, Sir John, 451

Colombo, Francisco, 20

Colonisation, French and English contrasted, 39, 45, 46, 48, 100

Columbus, Christopher, 3, 4

Colville, Admiral, Lord, 313, 322

Compagnie des cents Associés. See Hundred Associates, Company of One

Compagnie du Nord, 405

Condé, Prince de, 29

Confederation, 466 sqq.

Conseil Supérieur, 239

Constitutional Act, 375 sqq.

Cook, Captain James, at Quebec, 271

Copernicus, 3

Corlaer, or Schenectady, 91, 144

Cortès, Hernando, 5

Coudouagny, Indian god, 10

Couillards, family of, 38

Courcelles, Daniel de Rémy, Sieur de, 88, 110

Coureurs de bois, 33, 102, 119, 143, 171, 408, 417

Coureurs de côte, 327

Cradock, Richard, 407

Craig, Sir James, 422 sqq.

Criminal law, 102

Crown Point, 212

Daine, Mayor of Quebec, 304

Dalhousie, Earl of, 444, 447
  Obelisk to Wolfe and Montcalm, 308

Dalling, Major, 317

Daniel, Père, 41, 49, 69 sqq., 79 sqq.

Daulac, or Dollard, Adam, 60

Davis, the explorer, 394

Davison, Alexander, 368

Davost, Père, 41, 70 sqq.

Dearborn, General, 431, 433

Declaration of Rights (1689), 404

Denis of Honfleur, 4

Denonville, 140

Deschenaux, 196

Des Ormeaux, Sieur. See Daulac

Dieskau, 212

Dinwiddie, Governor, 206

Dolbeau, Father, 31

Dollard. See Daulac

Dominion, formation of the, 468

Dongan, Governor of New York, 140

Donnacona, Indian chief, 8, 10

Dorchester, Lord (Sir Guy Carleton) 288, 341, 343, 373, 385, 428

Drucour, Chevalier de, 253

Duchambon, 190

Duchesneau, Intendant, 134, 168, 405

Dufferin Terrace, 308

Du Lhut, discoveries of, 138, 410, 414

Du Millière, General, 386

Dunkirk of America, i.e. Louisbourg, 255

Du Peron, Père, 76

Dupuy, Paul, sentence on, 104

Duquesne, Marquis, 206

Durantal, Indian chief, 33

Durham, Earl of, 423, 441, 451 sqq.

Dussault, Marie Anne, 391 sqq.

Duvert, Dr., 388

Du Vivier, attacks Annapolis, 187

Earthquake, in Quebec, 136

"Echom," Indian name for Brébeuf, 70

Edgar, Matilda, Ridout Letters, 431

Emigration from France to Canada, 96

Esquimaux, 32

Estates General, 116

Estournelle, Admiral D', 191

Exploration, French and English, 411

"Family Compact," 444, 462

Federation, 466 sqq.

Fénelon, Abbé Salignac de, 119

Feudal system, imported into New

France, 94

"Fils de Liberté," 450

Fire in Quebec, 135

Fitzgibbon, Lieutenant, 434

"Five Nations." See Indians, Iroquois

Fontaine, Mlle. Marguerite, 164

Forbes, General, 260

Fort Charles, 400

Fort Crèvecoeur, 125 sqq.

"Fort des Sauvages," 83

Fort Duquesne, 185, 210, 260

Fort Necessity, 211

Fort William, 419

Fort William Henry, 213, 217, 250

Fort York, now Toronto, 434

Forts built by the French, 185

Fox, Charles James, 375

Francis, of Angoulême, 5

Francis I., 45

Franciscans, arrival at Quebec, 30

Franklin, Benjamin, 338, 364

Fraser, Captain Malcolm, 352

Fraser, Colonel, 317

Fraser's Highlanders, 295

Frederick the Great, 246, 252, 262

Freemasons' Hall, 368

French exploration, character of, 19

French Revolution, 383

Friponne, La, 109, 201

Frobisher, 394

Frontenac, Count, 110 sqq., 134, 143 sqq., 168 sqq.,
  175, 380, 404

Froude, J. A., 3

Fur trade, 395 sqq.

Gage, General, 326

Gallows Hill, 390

Gait, Alexander, 466

Gamache, Marquis de, 49

Garneau, Dr., 389

Garnier, Père, 74, 82

Gaspé, De, Les Anciens Canadiens, 234, 332, 387

Genet, French Ambassador to U. S., 383

Gensing root, 183

George II., death of, 328

George III., Court of, 380

Ghent, Treaty of, 440

Gillam, Captain, 400

Glandelet, Sieur, 172

Gosford, Lord, 444, 449, 454

Goupil, a Jesuit, 78

Governors of Canada, 473

Grant, Cuthbert, 418

Gray's Elegy, 292

Grey, Earl, 452

Groseilliers, Medard Chouart, called, 396 sqq.

Guimont, Louis, 224

Habitants, described, 218 sqq.

Habitation, built by Champlain, 24

Haldimand, Governor, 366, 367

Haldimand House, 380

Halifax, founding of, 203

Hamilton, Treasurer, 383

Hampton, General, 436, 439

Hanoverian regiments, 366

Hanseatic League, 2

Harrison, President, U.S.A., 435

Hart, John, sentence on, 391

Haverhill, destruction of, 177

Haviland, General, 324

Hazen, Moses, 342

Hazen's Rangers, 317

Hearne, Samuel, 395, 417

Hébert, family of, 38

Hébert, Louis, 39, 47, 55

Hennepin, Père, 125

Henrietta Maria, Queen, 39

Henry, John Joseph, Siege of Quebec, 352

Henry IV., of France, 20

Hessian regiment, 366

Highlanders, 256 sqq., 295, 297, 311, 317, 417

Hill, Brigadier John, 181

Hochelaga, the site of Montreal, discovery of, 10

Holbourne, Admiral, 249

Holmes, Admiral, 283, 284, 323

Hospital Général, 282

Houses of Quebec in 1750, 235 sqq.

Howe, General Lord, 253, 256

Hudson, the explorer, 394

Hudson's Bay Company, 395 sqq.

Huguenots excluded from France, 35

Hull, General, 432

Hundred Associates, Company of One, 35, 48, 87, 395

Iberville, Sieur d', 155, 408, 410

Ignatius Loyola, Saint, motto of, 74

Ihonatiria, village of, 70, 77

Indian fair at Quebec, 40

Indians, 6, 8, 10, 39, 44 sqq., 175 sqq., 211, 252, 412
  Abenakis, 140, 144
  Algonquins, 28, 39, 44
  Assiniboins, 138
  Foxes, 139
  Hurons, 28, 32, 44 sqq., 68 sqq., 80, 139
  Iroquois, 21, 28, 32, 44, 91 sqq., 139, 160, 175
  Mohawks, 77, 78, 212
  Montagnais, 28, 31
  Ojibwas, 139
  Oneidas, 171
  Onondagas, 171
  Ottawas, 139
  Pottawattamies, 139
  Senecas, 80, 139
  Sioux, 138
  Tobaccos, 82

Intendant's Palace, 106, 349

Inverawe Castle, 257

Isabella of Castile, 3

Italy, influence of, in the Middle Ages, 2

James II., American estates, 140 dethroned, 142

James Stuart, the Chevalier, 176

Jansenists and Jesuits, 167

Jaquin, Nicholas, 201

Jay, John, 384

Jefferson, Thomas, 3rd President, U.S.A., 383

Jervis, Captain, Wolfe's companion, 290

Jesuit Missions, 49 sqq., 121

Jesuit Relations, 135, 395

Jesuits, 34, 56 sqq., 118

Jesuits and Jansenists, 167

Jogues, Isaac, 77

Johnson, Col. William, 212, 217

Johnstone, Chevalier, 314

Joliet, Père Louis, 121 sqq.

Joseph, in Egypt, 200

Jumonville, Captain, 210

Kempt, Sir James, 444, 447

Kennedy's regiment, 295, 317

Kent, H.R.H. the Duke of, 376

"King's Girls," 97

Kirby, Mr., novel by, 227

Kirke, Sir David, 36

Kirke, Sir John, 399

Kirke, Lewis, 38

Kirke, Thomas, 38

Knox, Captain, Journal of the Siege, 236, 310, 322

La Barre, Governor, 129, 135 sqq., 410

La Chesnaye, Aubert de, 135

La Chesnaye, massacre of, 161

Lacolle Mill, battle of, 439

La Corne, Captain, 332, 334

La Durantaye, M. de, 138

La Friponne, 109, 201

La Galissonière, Marquis de, 192

La Grange-Trianon, Anne de, 111

La Hontan, opinion of the female emigrants, 97

La Jonquière, Admiral, 191

Lake of the Woods, discovery of, 186

Lalement, Père, 34, 75 sqq., 80 sqq., 85

Lambert's Travels quoted, 232

La Monnerie, M. de, 164

La Motte Cadillac, 172

La Motte de Lussière, 125

"La nation Canadienne," 448

Land tenure, 95

Langevin, Hector, 467

Language question, 327, 341, 458

La Peltrie, Madame de, 50 sqq.

La Pompadour, Mme. de, 195

La Potherie describes Quebec, 106

La Salle, Robert Cavelier, Sieur de, 122, 134

Lascelles' regiment, 295, 317

Laval, Bishop François-Xavier, 85 sqq., 167

Laval Seminary, students at the siege, 275

La Vérendrye, Sieur de, 185 sqq., 410, 414

Laws, Captain, 355

Le Canadien, 424

Legardeur de Saint-Pierre, 206

Le Jeune, Père, 39, 40, 49 sqq., 67 sqq.

Le Masse, Enemond, 34

Le Mercier, Père, 76

Le Moine, Sir James, 368

Le Moyne, Charles, commands force of colonists, 92

Le Moyne, family of, 155 n.

Lévis, Chevalier de, 196, 246, 250, 270, 307, 310, 313 sqq., 331

Ligneris, Commandant de, 260

Liquor traffic, 86, 118

Longfellow, H. W., Evangeline quoted, 203

Loudon, General, 248, 249, 253

Louis XIII., 110

Louis XIV. and New France, 86 sqq., 96 sqq., 120,
 129, 168, 174

Louis XV., 195

Louisbourg, fortifications at, 183, 188, 249 sqq., 253

Louisbourg Grenadiers, 295, 298

Louisiana, 128

Loyalty, French, 426 sqq., 436, 441

Lundy's Lane, battle of, 440

Lymburner, Adam, 374

Lyndhurst, Lord, 462

M'Donald, Captain Donald, 313, 317

Macdonald, Rt. Hon. Sir John A., 466 sqq.

M'Dougall, William, 467

M'Gee, Thomas D'Arcy, 467

M'Gillivray, William, 419

M'Lane, 388

Maclish, Governor, 416

M'Pherson, Captain, 356

M'Tavish, Simon, 418

Madison, James, 4th President, U.S.A., 383

Madras exchanged for Louisbourg, 191

Magdelaine de Verchères, Récit de Mlle., 161

Maison de la Montagne, 199

"Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre," 233

Maple sugar season, 236

Mareuil, Sieur de, excommunicated, 173

Marguerite, Roberval's niece, 14 sqq.

Maria Theresa, 187

Marie de l'Incarnation, 52

Market at Quebec, 226

Marlborough, Duke of, 409

Marquette, Père, 121

Martin, Abraham, 396

Matagorda Bay, 131

Mazarin, Cardinal, 86, 166

Medicine men, 72

Melbourne, Lord, 462

Mercoeur, Duc de, 20

Mézy, M. de, 167

Michillimackinac, mission at, 121

Military dress, 431

Minorca lost by England, 252

Mission of the Martyrs, 78, 93

Mississippi exploration, 122 sqq.

Molière's plays acted in Quebec, 172

Monckton, General, 287, 310

Monckton's brigade, 273, 281

Monro, Captain, 250

Montcalm, Marquis de, 196, 227, 246 sqq., 249, 255 sqq.,
  260 sqq., 299

Montgomery, General Richard, 342 sqq.

Montmagny, M. de, 48, 54, 58, 185, 238

Montmorency, Duc de, 34

Montpensier, Mlle. de, 112

Montreal, address by the citizens in 1760, 328

Montreal Gazette, 338

Montresor, Lieutenant, 313

Monts, Sieur de, 21

Moranget, La Salle's nephew, 132

Morrin College, 392

Murphy, Patrick, executed, 390

Murray, General, 240, 245, 276, 283 sqq., 287, 295,
  310 sqq., 314, 323, 339

Napoleon Bonaparte, Prince, 320

Nelson, Lord, 368 sqq., 432

Nesbit, Mrs., 370

Newcastle, Duke of, 247, 248

New England's claims in the West, 206

New England colonies, population, 179, 248

New Orleans, 363

Nicholson, Colonel, 177

Nicollet, an interpreter, 49

Nika, in La Salle's company, 132

Noblesse, Canadian, 100 sqq.

Norembega, Lord of, 13

Northmen in America, 4

North-West Company, 418

"Notre Dame de la Victoire," 157

"Notre Dame des Victoires," 182

Nouë, Anne de, 39, 79

Noyan, Commandant de, 260

Ohio valley, war in, 206

Old Lorette founded, 84

"Old Régime," 218, 324, 336

"Onontio," Indian name for Frontenac, 143, 171

Ontario in 1812, 427

Osgoode, Chief-Justice, 387

Oswego, capitulation of, 249

Otway's regiment, 295, 317

Palais de Justice, 106

Palmerston, Lord, 452

Papineau, Joseph, 448 sqq.

Parkman, Francis, quoted, 14, 60, 126, 214, 259, 314

Parliament House, 375

Péan, 335

Penisseault, 335

Pepperell, General Sir William, 189 sqq.

Polo, Marco, 1

Pontbriand, Bishop, 283

Pontgravé, 27

Population of Canada in 1700, 179;
  in 1758, 248

Population of Quebec in 1660, 85;
  in 1750, 227

Population, Upper and Lower Canada, 460, 466

Portneuf, Captain, 144

Port Royal, capture of, 178

Portuguese, discoveries by, 3

Premiers of Canada, 476

Prentice, Widow, 356

Prescott, General, 385 sqq.

Press-gangs, 425

Prévost, Mayor of Quebec, 149

Prevost, Sir George, 429 sqq., 440, 445

Proctor, General, 434, 435

"Provincials," 341

Quebec Act of 1774, 341, 370

Quebec Chronicle, 337

Quebec Gazette, 337, 457

Quebec Literary and Historical Society, 392

Queenston Heights, battle of, 432

Queylus, Abbé de, 166

Radisson, Pierre, 396 sqq.

Ragueneau, Père, 76, 81

Ramézay, Commandant de, 181, 270, 300, 304 sqq.

Rattier, Jean, sentence on, 393

Rebels, treatment of, 461

Récollets, arrival at Quebec, 30
  expelled, 41
  farm of the, 47

Récollets, re-introduced into America, 168

Regne militaire, 325

Rensselaer, General Van, 431

Répentigny, commander of colonial force, 92

Richelieu, Cardinal, 35, 48, 395

Richmond, Duke of, 419, 444 sqq.

Ridout Letters, 431

Robertson, Colin, 418

Roberval, Sieur de, 12, 16, 45

Robson, Joseph, 416

Rupert, Prince, 400

Rupert's Land, 404

Russell, Earl, 449, 463

Ryswick, Treaty of, 173, 175, 409

Saget, La Salle's servant, 132

Sainte-Anne de Beaupré, 224 sqq.

Ste. Foye, battle of, 315 sqq.

St. Germain-en-Laye, Treaty of, 39, 66

Sainte-Hélène, Captain, 155

St. Lawrence, Gulf of, discovery of, 7

Saint-Luc, La Corne de, 196, 332

Ste. Marie, mission at, 77

Saint-Ours, M. de, 101, 196, 270, 295, 302

Saint-Simon, Duc de, Memoirs, 112, 227

Saint-Vallier, Bishop, 170

Salaberry, General de, 380, 433 sqq., 435 sqq., 439

Sault Ste. Marie, 121

Saunders, Admiral, 266, 289, 293, 305, 310

Sawyer, Commodore, 379

"Scholars' Battle," 275

Scotch settlers, 417 sqq.

Secord, Laura, 434

Seigneur, position of the, 218 sqq.

Selkirk, Lord, 419

Selwyn, John, 406

"Seminaire de Laval," 168 sqq.

Sénézergues, Brigadier, 270, 295, 302

"Seven Years' War," 246

Shannon and Chesapeake, 435

Shawanoe, in La Salle's Company, 132

Sheaffe, General, 434

Sherbrooke, Sir John Cope, 444 sqq.

Shirley, Governor, 188, 212

Sillery, M. de, 49

Simcoe, Colonel, 428

Simpson, Miss Mary, 370

Smith, Prof. Goldwin, 110

Social life, 218 sqq., 366 sqq.

Soissons, Comte de, 29

Southey, Robert, Life of Nelson, 370

Spanish, discoveries by, 3

Spanish succession, war of, 176

Stadaconé, the site of Quebec, discovery of, 9

Stamp Act, 339

Stoney Creek, battle of, 434

Subercase, Commandant at Port Royal, 178

Taché, Étienne Paschal, 466

Talon, Intendant, Jean Baptiste, 88, 96, 116, 118, 120, 168, 405

Tecumseh, Indian chief, 432, 435

Tessouat, Algonquin chief, 29

Theatre in Quebec, 172

Thompson, James, diary of, 343

Thunder, Indian beliefs, 73

Ticonderoga, or Carillon, 259

Tiers État, 337

Times, The, 452

Tonty, Henri de, 125

Townshend, Brigadier, afterwards Marquis of, 276, 287, 295,
  302 sqq., 310

Tracy, Marquis de, 88, 172, 225, 376

Trading, Indian, 412 sqq.

Tupper, Sir Charles, 467

Turenne, Vicomte de, Maréchal de France, 111

Umfreville, Present State of Hudson's Bay, 412, 416

Union, Act of, 460, 463

United Empire loyalists, 365, 370, 427

United States and Canada, 364 sqq., 424 sqq.

Ursuline nun, quoted, 136, 238

Utrecht, Treaty of, 182, 404, 409

Varin, 335

Vauban, engineer, 159, 183

Vaudreuil, Mme. de, 227

Vaudreuil, Marquis de, 179, 195, 212

Vaudreuil, Pierre François Rigaud, Marquis de, 247, 260 sqq.,
  302 sqq., 313 sqq., 324, 335

Vauquelin, Commander, 323

Ventadour, Henri Lévis, Duc de, 34

Verchères, M. de, 161

Verchères, Mlle. Magdelaine de, 161

Verchères, Seigneury de, 161

Vergor, Captain, 293

Verrazzano, 3 sqq., 45

Vespucci, Amerigo, 2

Vetch, Samuel, 177, 180

Vignau, Nicolas de, story of a route to Cathay, 29

Ville Marie, or Montreal, 60

Villiers, Coulon de, 211

Vincent, General, 434

Voltigeurs, 433 sqq.

Walker, Sir Hovenden, 178 sqq.

Walley, Major, at Quebec, 154

Walpole, Horace, 307

Ward, the executioner, 388

Warren, Commodore, 189

Washington, George, 206 sqq., 213 sqq., 340, 383

Webb, General, 248, 250, 253

Webb's regiment, 317

Western exploration, 192 sqq.

Wilkinson, General, 436

William III., 142, 408 sqq.

Willson, Beckles, The Great Company, 406

Winthrop, Governor, 146

Wolfe, General, 253, 254 sqq., 266, 302, 307, 342

Young, Colonel, 317

Young, Sir William, 407

    *    *    *    *    *

1. Spelling of 'Cap la Hêve' was retained, even though geographically
   incorrect.

2. Page 271--typographical error 'spirts' corrected to 'spirits'

3. Page 338--typographical error 'Engish' corrected to 'English'

4. Page 349--typographical error 'posession' corrected to 'possession'

5. Several instances of hyphenation have been changed for the sake
   of consistency.