The young monkey drew himself up at that and flushed angrily. "Oh, I don't know as I'm so little,"
he observed, regarding me with a narrowing eye as I stepped unbidden beyond the sacred portals.

"Where will I find Mr. McKail's secretary?" I asked, noticing the door in the stained-wood
partition with "Private" on its frosted glass. The youth nodded his head toward the door in
question and crossed to a desk where he proceeded languidly to affix postage-stamps to a small
pile of envelopes.

I hesitated for a moment, as though there was something epochal in the air, as though I was
making a step which might mean a great deal to me. And then I stepped over to the door and
opened it.

I saw a young woman seated at a flat-topped desk, with a gold-banded fountain-pen in her fingers,
checking over a column of figures. She checked carefully on to the end of her column, and then
she raised her head and looked at me.

Her face stood out with singular distinctness, in the strong side-light from the office-window.
And the woman seated at the flat-topped desk was Alsina Teeswater.

I don't know how long I stood there without speaking. But I could see the color slowly mount
and recede on Alsina Teeswater's face. She put down her fountain-pen, with much deliberation,
and sat upright in her chair, with her barricaded eyes every moment of the time on my face.

"So this has started again?" I finally said, in little more than a whisper.

I could see the girl's lips harden. I could see her fortifying herself behind an entrenchment
of quietly marshaled belligerency.

"It has never stopped, Mrs. McKail," she said in an equally low voice, but with the courage
of utter desperation.

It took some time, apparently, for that declaration to filter through to my brain. Everything
seemed suddenly out of focus; and it was hard to readjust vision to the newer order of things.
But I was calmer, under the circumstances, than I expected to be.

"I'm glad I understand," I finally admitted.

The woman at the desk seemed puzzled. Then she looked from me to her column of figures and
from her column of figures to the huddled roofs and walls of the city and the greening foot-hills
and the solemn white crowns of the Rockies behind them.

"Are you quite sure, Mrs. McKail, that you do understand?" she asked at last, with just a touch
of challenge in the question.

"Isn't it quite simple now?" I demanded.

She found the courage to face me again.

"I don't think this sort of thing is ever simple," she replied, with much more emotion than
I had expected of her.

"But it's at least clear how it must end," I found the courage to point out to her.

"Is that clear to you?" demanded the woman who was stepping into my shoes. It seemed odd, at
the moment, that I should feel vaguely sorry for her.

"Perhaps you might make it clearer," I prompted.

"I'd rather Duncan did that," she replied, using my husband's first name, obviously, without
knowing she had done so.

"Wouldn't it be fairer--for the two of us--now? Wouldn't it be cleaner?" I rather tremulously
asked of her.

She nodded and stared down at the sheet covered with small columns of figures.

"I don't know whether you know it or not," she said with a studied sort of quietness, "but
last week Mr. McKail began making arrangements to establish a residence in Nevada. He will
have to live there, of course, for at least six months, perhaps even longer."

I could feel this sinking in, like water going through blotting-paper. The woman at the desk
must have misinterpreted my silence, for she was moved to say, in a heavier effort at self-defense,
"He knew, of course, that you cared for some one else."

