The emotions of the mind are displayed in the movements of the body, the expression of the
features and the tones of the voice. It is more difficult to disguise the tones of the voice,
than any other external manifestation of internal feeling. The changing accents of the voice
of those with whom we have long lived in intimate intercourse, in the communication of sentiment,
are less equivocal and more impressive than even language itself.

The vocal sounds of speech, expressive of thought and feeling, are too much neglected by us
in our individual and personal education. Could we analyze the opinion which we form of people
on a first acquaintance, we should certainly find that it is greatly influenced by the tones
of the voice. Study, then, agreeable sounds of speech, but seek not rules to guide you from
etiquette--from artificial politeness; descend into the heart, there cherish the kind and moral
sympathies, and speech will be modulated by the sincere and endearing tone of benevolence.

With your commiseration for distress, join firmness of mind. Interest yourself in general happiness,
feel for all that is human, but suffer not your peace to be disturbed by what is beyond the
sphere of your influence, and beyond your power to remedy.

A medical man has all the humane feelings, but they are merged into the art of healing. When
he sees a patient suffering, he feels no perturbation; he feels only the desire, by means of
his art, to relieve the sufferer: thus should all our humane and social sympathies be regulated,
divested of their morbid sensibility, and reduced to active and practical principles.

Some, when they move from the common routine of life, and especially on any emergency, are
embarrassed, perplexed, and know not how to resolve with decision, and act with promptitude.
Presence of mind is a valuable quality, and essential to active life; it is the effect of habit,
and the formation of habit is facilitated by rule.

Command your feelings, for strong feelings disconcert the mind, and produce confusion of ideas.
On every occasion that requires attention, learn to concentrate your thoughts with quickness
and comprehension. These two rules reduced into habits, if steadily practiced, will induce
decision of resolve and promptitude of action.

Precipitation spoils the best concerted plan; perseverance brings the most difficult, when
it is practicable, to a successful result. The flutter of haste is characteristic of a weak
mind that has not the command of its thoughts; a strong mind, master of itself, possesses the
clearness and prescience of reflection.

In learning, concentrate the energy of the mind principally on one study. The attention divided
among many studies, is weakened by the division; besides, it is not granted to an individual
to excel in many things. But, while one study claims your main attention, make occasional excursions
into the fields of literature and science, and collect materials for the improvement of your
mind, and the advancement of your favorite pursuit.

Excellence in a profession, and success in business, can be attained only by persevering industry.
None who thinks himself above his vocation can succeed in it, for we can not give our attention
to what our self-importance despises. None can be eminent in his vocation who devotes his mental
energy to a pursuit foreign to it, for, in such a case, success in what we love is failure
in what we neglect.

Among men, you must either speak what is agreeable to their humor, or what is consistent with
truth and good morals. Make it a general rule of conduct neither to flatter virtue nor exasperate
folly: by flattering virtue, you can not confirm it; by exasperating folly, you can not reform
it. Submit, however, to no compromise with truth, but, when it allows, accommodate yourself
with honest courtesy to the prepossessions of others.

In your whole behavior to mankind, conduct yourself with fairness and integrity. If an action
is well received, you will have the credit it deserves; if it is not well received, you will
have the approval of your own mind. The approval of a good conscience is preferable to the
applause of the world.

Form no resolution, and engage in no undertaking, which you can not invoke Heaven to sanction.
A good man prays the Almighty to be propitious to his virtuous plans: if his petition is denied,
he knows it is denied in mercy, and he is resigned; if it is granted, he is grateful, and enjoys
the blessings with moderation. A wicked man, in his iniquitous plans, either fails or succeeds:
if he fails, disappointment is embittered by self-reproach; if he succeeds, success is without
pleasure, for, when he looks around, he sees no smile of congratulation.

[From Fraser's Magazine.]

TALLEYRAND.[17]

"Celebrated people," said Napoleon, when speaking of Necker, "lose on a close view:" a remark
not substantially different from that of the Duke of Marlborough, that "no man was a hero to
his valet de chambre." Proximity, like familiarity, "breeds contempt;" and the proper cure
for the illusions of distance is nearness. Few objects in nature, whether living or dead, can
stand the application of that test, which is as fatal to the pretensions of men as of mountains:
while it is notorious that the judgments of history are seldom in accordance with the decisions
of contemporaries or friends. Human greatness resembles physical magnitude in this, that its
proportions are more or less affected by surrounding influences, which must be removed before
its real dimensions can be ascertained. It is, in fact, one of the fluctuating quantities of
social arithmetic, and to fix its precise amount is now, and ever has been, one of the most
difficult enterprises in which a public writer can engage. It is apt, also, to be confounded
with mere celebrity. Obscurity is not one of its accidents, but fame is; and there is something
like an irresistible tendency on the part of mankind at large, to believe in the claims to
distinction of the man who has been vulgatus per orbem. Humility does very well for poets--your
Horaces and Grays, for instance--who can find Agamemnons and Hampdens on every village green,
to whom the opportunity only of acquiring renown has been denied by envious fate; but the prose
of life discards it as an unsuitable and troublesome adjunct, and refuses to extend its reverence
to what is not appreciable. A famous man is, therefore, always presumed to be a great man,
and he may be so in so far as popular reputation is concerned, though he need not be so otherwise.
To which of these classes did Talleyrand belong? That he was celebrated is beyond doubt. Was
he great? That is a different question, and could be answered satisfactorily only by a much
more elaborate inquiry into his history than it is possible for us to institute. Forty years
must elapse from his death, which took place in 1838, before those memoirs, which he is known
to have compiled, shall be given to the world; and whoever tries will find it to be no easy
task to anticipate those revelations which are reserved for the eyes and ears of the generation
of 1878. Let us, then, be contented with a humbler effort, and endeavor to make the most of
the materials which are accessible to us, scanty though they be. There are spurious lives of
Talleyrand by the dozen. He repudiated these scandalous and gossiping chronicles in his life-time,
and it is no part of our business to resuscitate them. M. Colmache's volume is of another stamp,
however, and bears unexceptionable internal evidence of the honesty of the writer, whether
we agree in his conclusions or not. As secretary to the prince he had superior facilities for
acquiring a knowledge of, at least, the domestic habits of the man, but beyond this he has
accomplished little; for though his work be well, and even powerfully written, and though it
contain numerous fragments of strong dramatic interest which illustrate in a very remarkable
manner Talleyrand's moral idiosyncracy, as well as the usages of the age and country in which
he lived--it would be absurd to suppose that the most reserved man in Europe, who had drilled
his passions into a state of repose, and disciplined his tongue into the obedient slave of
his own secret purposes, had given his confidence to a servant, in the full knowledge that
every word which he uttered, and every opinion which he expressed, would be noted down, and
published to the world when the grave had closed upon his remains. A less astute person, occupying
the same conspicuous position in life, would have been guilty of no such folly as this: and
though M. Colmache may have thought otherwise, he was obviously trusted with no more than it
was perfectly safe for his master's posthumous reputation that he should be allowed to know.
Moreover, we must remember, that though the French pride themselves on their skill in conversation--l'art
de causer, as they term it--it is a wholly different thing from what would pass by that name
in Britain. Men do not meet together in France (or, rather, they did not, for it is impossible
to tell what they do now, and it would be unprofitable to inquire), freely to exchange their
thoughts upon questions of importance, to discuss philosophy, religion, literature, or even
politics; but to chat, to trifle with time, and to dispel weariness. Every thing that is serious
is interdicted as an offense against good taste; and a French talker would rather run the risk
of being considered a fool than a bore. The tyranny of fashion has been always cheerfully submitted
to on this point; and to be brilliant, startling, and epigrammatic, are the passports to conversational
reputation: not to be weighty, solid, or wise. To judge by M. Colmache's book, Talleyrand did
not converse. It was no part of his social economy to intercommune with any one. His thoughts
were his own, and he kept them to himself: hence, after we have perused this book, abounding
as it does in curious sketches and narratives, we know nothing more of Talleyrand's sentiments
on men and things than we did before. There was, no doubt, the usual lingual intercourse among
his guests at the Château Vallençay, but the great man took no part in it. His rôle was lofty,
mysterious, and grand. When he spoke all were silent, all attentive, all obsequious: but there
was no conversation, in our sense of the word, and no dialogue, for there were no interlocutors.
It was a monologue, in fact, and an interesting one--for his memory was deeply impressed with
the recollections of the past, and he delighted to call them up, and to astonish his auditors
by the freshness and vigor of his coloring: but, so far as we can discover, he never allowed
himself to indulge in unnecessary commentaries or disclosures, and, with all his diligence,
M. Colmache was unable to extract out of the wily diplomatist a single idea which it was his
desire to conceal. Let there be no mistake, then, about the character of these Revelations.
They are always amusing, sometimes highly interesting, and at others instructive: but they
furnish exceedingly little toward a life of Talleyrand; and what his own countrymen are unable
to give, foreigners can not supply. In what follows, therefore, we must be both abrupt and
irregular.

Charles Maurice Talleyrand-Périgord, eldest son of the Comte de Talleyrand-Périgord, was born
at Paris in the year 1754; and died in that city in the year 1838, at the advanced age of eighty-four.
His father was by position a member of the ancient noblesse, and by profession, a soldier:
his mother a woman of fashion, and attached to the court. According to M. Colmache, he came
into the world "without spot or blemish," and we are led to infer that his lameness--the cause
of so much suffering and injustice to him in after-life--was not congenital, as has been generally
believed, but the result of want of care in his childhood; for, as it was not the custom in
those days for women of rank to nurse their own offspring, or even to rear them in their own
houses, the future diplomatist was removed to a distant part of the country a few days after
his birth, and consigned to the care of a hired nurse, Mère Rigaut, in whose cottage, wild,
neglected, and forgotten, he dwelt, for twelve years. He was at length recalled from his involuntary
exile by the Bailli Talleyrand, his uncle--the youngest brother of his father, a naval officer,
and a knight of Malta; who, with the warmth of feeling proper to men of his profession, was
enraged, upon his return home, to find the poor boy condemned to banishment and obscurity,
and determined to free him from both. He accordingly brought him to Paris, but was sadly mortified
to find that his intention of making him a sailor was marred by his infirmity; and leaving
him at the hôtel Talleyrand in charge of the parties whom his mother had instructed to receive
him--for she was not there to perform that maternal duty herself--the honest Bailli set out
for Toulon, where he rejoined his ship, and was drowned at sea a few months afterward. Young
Talleyrand was now placed at the College of Louis le Grand, and under the immediate direction
of the Père Langlois, Professor of Rhetoric in that institution; a kind and benevolent-minded
man, as it would seem, to whom his pupil remained attached throughout his whole life, and who,
unchanged and unchangeable, wore, in 1828, the academic costume which had prevailed before
the Revolution--a long-skirted, collarless black coat, buttoned to the chin; black knee breeches
and silk stockings; large shoes with silver-plated buckles; well powdered hair, with ailes
de pigeon and a queue of portentous dimensions; and that indispensable companion of a savant
crasseux of the middle of the eighteenth century, a huge flat snuff-box, which lay concealed
in the deep recesses in his ample pockets. Talleyrand remained at this school for three years,
and would appear to have made a respectable figure as a student, considering the disadvantages
under which he labored from the want of preliminary training. It is probable that a sense of
this deficiency on the part of a lively lad, joined to the stimulus of competition, quickened
his diligence, and he was rewarded with praise and prizes. He was also addicted to active sports,
for "he was strong and hardy in spite of his lameness;" and we are told that his temper was
mild and tractable at this period, and that, when attacked, his defensive weapon was his tongue,
not his hands--so true is it, that "the boy is father to the man." His sharp, quick speech,
we are assured, was the terror of his comrades--i.e. when a bolder youth would have boxed his
antagonist's ears, Talleyrand scolded, and doubtlessly provoked him; but as there must be a
philosophical reason for whatever concerns the nonage of a celebrated person, it is added,
that "even then (between twelve and fifteen, observe) he had learned that the art of governing
others consisted merely in self-command." During his residence at college he saw nothing of
his father, and little of his mother; and when the latter did visit him, she was always attended
by an eminent surgeon, whose duty it was to torture the unfortunate boy's leg, and to try,
by bandages, cauteries, and other appliances, to make that long and straight which neglect
had made short and crooked. These visits of madame mère were anticipated with horror, and ever
afterward spoken of with disgust; nor could they have increased that love for the author of
his being which is so natural to youth, and which an incident that occurred about this time
would seem to have utterly extinguished.

At the close of his third year at college, his father died from the effects of an old wound
received in battle. This event must have happened when his son had attained to the fifteenth
year of his age, and, consequently, in the year 1769. By the laws of nature and of feudal succession,
that son was now the head of his house, a peer of France, the inheritor of those peculiar privileges
which then belonged to his order, the owner of large territorial possessions, and the Comte
Talleyrand-Périgord: of all which rights, immunities, titles, and dignities, he was arbitrarily
deprived by the cruel decision of a family council, of which his mother was the author and
promoter, and his birthrights handed over to his younger brother, who, in his infancy, had
been companion of his exile. Why this act of iniquity was committed, and how, we shall allow
M. Colmache to tell:

"It was at this time that his father died, and Charles Maurice was now the Comte de Talleyrand,
and head of that branch of the family to which he belonged. Meanwhile the younger son, Archambaut,
had likewise returned from his nursing; but he had the better chance--his limbs were sound
and well developed, as God had made them. No dire accident, the consequence of foul neglect,
had marred his shape, or tarnished his comeliness. So, one fine day, and as a natural consequence,
mark you, of this fortunate circumstance, when Charles Maurice, the eldest son, had finished
his course of study at Louis le Grand, having passed through his classes with great éclat,
there came a tall, sallow, black-robed priest, and took him away from the midst of his friends
to the grim old séminaire of St. Sulpice, and it was there that he received the astounding
intimation, from the lips of the superior himself, that, by the decision of a conseil de famille,
from which there was no appeal, his birthright had been taken from him, and transferred to
his younger brother.

"'Why so?' faltered the boy, unable to conceal his emotion.

"'He is not cripple,' was the stern and cruel answer.

"It must have been that hour--nay, that very instant--the echo of those heartless words, which
made the Prince de Talleyrand what he is even to this very day. Who shall tell the bitter throes
of that bold, strong-hearted youth, as he heard the unjust sentence? Was it defiance and despair,
the gift of hell, or resignation, the blessed boon of heaven, which caused him to suffer the
coarse black robe to be thrown at once above his college uniform, without a cry, without a
murmur? None will ever be able to divine what his feelings were, for this one incident is always
passed over by the prince. He never refers to it, even when in familiar conversation with his
most loved intimates. It is certain, therefore, that the single hour of which I speak bore
with it a whole life of bitterness and agony. (P. 106, 107.)"

Let us pause for a moment to consider the probable effects of such nurture and treatment on
a nature like Talleyrand's. He was fifteen years of age; imperfectly educated for his station
in life; lame, from the neglect of the guardians of his infancy; disinherited by those who
should have watched with the most jealous care over his interests; cruelly punished for a physical
defect chargeable to the carelessness of others; a stranger to hope, love, and fear; the victim
of a domestic conspiracy; and the novitiate of a profession which he loathed, and to which,
in his subsequent years, he did dishonor. His father he had never known, his mother he knew
only as his tormentor and oppressor: no tie seems to have bound him to his brother, and up
to this hour he had never yet slept one night under the paternal roof. These were no ordinary
trials; and if the youth who was subjected to them became in after-life a cynic, is it to be
wondered at? Indeed, a hasty view of this remarkable man's character might lead to the conclusion
of M. Colmache, that the untoward accidents of his infancy and boyhood afforded an explanation
of all his adult peculiarities; but we can not allow ourselves to accept this inference, natural
as it would seem to be, for it appears to us, upon a closer inspection, that though these incidents
might deepen the force of his mental inequalities, they could not have created them, and that
the difference between the Bishop of Autun and the ancient noble, had he succeeded to his inheritance,
would have amounted to little more than the difference between a proscribed ecclesiastic and
a proscribed aristocrat. No doubt, if the generous affections expand and blossom under genial
culture, they as certainly contract and wither under neglect and harshness; nor should we,
in ordinary cases, have any hesitation in giving the benefit of this elementary rule to the
subject of an ordinary biography: but Talleyrand's is not such. There is no evidence in this
book or elsewhere, for instance, that the sensitive part of his nature was acute, or that he
was easily moved by strong emotions of any kind; and it is exceedingly difficult for us to
comprehend how so singular a moral and intellectual organization as he unquestionably possessed
could have been the result of any imaginable series of occurrences in early life, of whatever
description they might happen to be. The power of intense concentration by which he was so
remarkably distinguished was, assuredly, a gift from Nature (whether good or bad we say not),
and not a circumstantial accident; and it is all but incredible that a man of vivid sensibilities
could have succeeded by a mere effort of the will in suppressing every manifestation of their
existence during a life prolonged far beyond the ordinary term, and in the midst of the most
terrible convulsions that had agitated the world since the establishment of society in Western
Europe. The cause appears to us to be unequal to the effect; and we are obliged to conclude
that the cold, sarcastic, and selfish man, who believed in nothing and nobody, and who rejected
even the common impulses of humanity, was no casual product of events, but precisely what he
had been designed to be from the cradle, and what he would have shown himself to have been--though,
perhaps, in a different way--had he never known what paternal neglect and maternal cruelty were.

We have no account in this volume of the progressive steps of his clerical education, beyond
the intimation that it was wearisome and distasteful. Talleyrand disliked references to his
ecclesiastical career. It had not been a respectable one; and if M. Colmache really got from
him the stories which he tells in his book, we need not be surprised that there is nothing
in them about either the Abbé or the Bishop. We know from other sources that, notwithstanding
his constitutional timidity, he accepted the Revolution eagerly; and that he did his best,
by precept and example, to consummate the destruction of the old order of things. He was the
bosom friend of Mirabeau, so far as his suspicious nature would allow him to be the bosom-friend
of any one; and his account (or what M. Colmache says was his) of the last days of that able,
but profligate person's troubled life is one of the most striking things in this volume. Another
extraordinary being likewise appears here, of whom less is generally known than of the other
two, viz., the Abbé Cerutti, an Italian Jesuit, who had been in the service of the Dauphin,
the father of Louis XVI., and who, like so many others, threw his religion and his allegiance
behind his back when they could no longer subserve his personal ends, and who was, moreover,
with Mirabeau and Talleyrand, one of the most active promoters of the popular cause. This trio,
in conjunction with Condorcet, started, in 1789, the first democratical journal known in Paris.
It was called the Feuille Villageoise, and was designed for circulation among the rural populations
of the provinces. It has been accused of having provoked many of the atrocities of the Revolution;
but this, it would seem, was a mistake. It only fanned the flames after they had broken out,
but did not excite them: and it was remarkable for "burning columns" from Mirabeau, the ex-noble;
for "cold, bitter irony," from Cerutti, the ex-Jesuit; and for recommendations of the "divisions
of church property, &c." from Talleyrand, the ex-bishop. Such pastimes could have done no harm,
according to M. Colmache; and were obviously inadequate to the production of a revolution--and
such a revolution! Let us acquit these patriots, then, of treason against society, and let
us believe that they were actuated by the purest motives, when they used every effort within
their reach to rouse to madness an ignorant and excitable multitude, and stimulated by every
possible means, the cupidity of the poor by suggestions to plunder the rich and to despoil
the Church. It may be difficult to do this, but there is no help for it; and with such undeniable
proofs of the wisdom, virtue, and moderation of this celebrated junta, as M. Colmache has been
pleased to furnish, we may let the matter drop.

Talleyrand was consumed by a burning hatred of England, even before the Revolution broke out,
and, in conjunction with a friend, gave a practical illustration of his hostility by fitting
out a privateer at Brest, which was designed to intercept British ships trading to the West
Indies; and as we do not remember to have seen this strange incident in his life mentioned
elsewhere, we shall give the short account of it which M. Colmache has furnished:

"The sudden change from the frivolous papillotage of the ancien régime to the sombre enthusiasm
which broke out at the epoch of the American war, made but little impression on M. Talleyrand.
He was evidently prepared; and at once declared his opinion, not by pamphlets or inflammatory
speeches, but by an argument far more forcible than either. Conjointly with his friend, the
Count Choiseul Gouffier, he equipped a privateer, which he called the Holy Cause, and which
left the harbor of Brest in the month of May, 1779. The Duc de Castries, then Minister of Marine,
furnished the guns. This single fact would almost serve to paint the time. A vessel of war
armed and equipped by the agent général du clergé de France, aided by a savant of the haute
noblesse, and countenanced by one of the ministers, exhibits at once the utter confusion of
ideas which must have existed just then. I have heard that the privateer, which, placed under
command of a runaway scion of nobility, was to have carried death and destruction among the
English merchant-ships trading from the West Indies, never more made its appearance on the
French coast. Be this as it may, I know that the prince does not like to talk of this little
episode in his life; and the other day, when questioned rather closely on the subject, he answered,
'Laissons cela, c'est un de mes péchés de jeunesse.'" (P. 232.)

The temper of mind indicated by this passage was itself one of the forerunners of the Revolution,
for at that time France had become delirious on the subject of the American struggle; and her
soldiers and nobles who were aiding the revolted provincialists, were busily employed in gathering
the fruits of that harvest of republicanism which they were so soon to transport to their own
country, where they were destined to produce extraordinary results. At the time this event
happened, Talleyrand was twenty-five years of age, and in holy orders; and we are to presume
that the Anglo-mania, which overtook his countrymen ten years later, and was the rage in '89,
had not yet set in. The anecdote is curious, but it strikes us as being illustrative rather
of the character of the age and people than of the individual man, for whom in his natural
mood, it was trop prononcé.

As the Revolution advanced Talleyrand's safety was endangered, and like most French patriots,
ancient and modern, that was a thing which he looked carefully to. Some papers were found,
after the sack of the Tuilleries, which compromised him; and in '92 he fled to the United States
of America, taking up his abode in the city of New York. He was accompanied in his flight by
a friend of the name of Beaumetz, and in concert with whom he resolved to enter into trade.
A small ship was freighted with goods for Calcutta, whither the two exiles had resolved to
proceed in search of fortune; and all that was wanted to enable them to put their scheme in
execution was a fair wind, which, however, the elements refused. In the interval caused by
this detention Talleyrand had one of what he called his "presentiments;" and to its occult
warnings, as he afterward declared, he owed the immediate preservation of his life, salvation
from shipwreck, and that change in his "destiny" which led to all the future incidents of his
eventful career. Disappointment and vexation preying upon an irritable temper drove his partner
mad. He saw insanity in his look and gestures, and suffering himself to be led by the lunatic
to the heights of Brooklyn, which overlook the harbor, he fixed his eyes sternly upon him,
exclaiming, at the same time, "Beaumetz, you mean to murder me; you intend to throw me from
the height into the sea below. Deny it, monster, if you can!" Thus apostrophized, the unhappy
and conscience-stricken maniac quailed beneath the intensity and sternness of his gaze; confessed
that such was his design, the thought, "like a flash from the lurid fire of hell," having haunted
him day and night; implored forgiveness, flung himself upon the neck of his meditated victim,
and burst into tears. The paroxysm had passed off, and tottering reason had resumed her sway.
Beaumetz was conveyed home and placed under medical treatment, speedily recovered, proceeded
on his voyage alone, and was never more heard of. "My Fate," said Talleyrand, when speaking
of this incident in after life, "was at work."

From the way in which this anecdote is introduced we learn that Talleyrand had some strong
leaning to the Celtic superstition known as the second sight, which, in the adust imagination
of a Frenchman, is closely allied to fatalism, and which, we fear, loses its interest, as it
certainly does its virtue, when transported into sunnier regions from "the land of the mountain
and the flood." In ancient times Augustus Cæsar,[18] and in modern Samuel Johnson, Napoleon,
and Walter Scott, were all, more or less, and after the manner of their several idiosyncracies,
the victims of this imaginary belief; and if we knew the apocalyptic tendencies of obscure,
as well as we do those of celebrated individuals, we should probably, discover that this weakness
was much more prevalent than is generally supposed. We have no great difficulty in understanding
how a fanciful notion of this kind should attach itself to minds of a certain conformation,
or be even generated by them, and that it should exercise a considerable, though unseen influence
over the secret convictions of men of ability, and of women of vivid religious emotions; but
we do not so readily comprehend how such persons as Napoleon and Talleyrand should have embraced
a delusion which was utterly irreconcilable with their skeptical natures, and which necessarily
presupposed an immaterial state of existence, and the providential superintendence of human
affairs by a benevolent order of beings, whose powers must have been deputed to them by a superior
and over-ruling Intelligence. It was the part of an ancient Roman, like Augustus, to believe
in portents and omens, however insignificant; it might even require some philosophy to despise
them; and among ourselves in modern times it will be found, if we mistake not, that strong
poetical sensibilities, or a peculiarly impressible temperament, is the foundation of what
can be regarded in no other light than an hallucination. The world of spirits, with all its
shadowy tenants and imaginary impulses, might be a reality to Scott, whose demonology never
for one moment obscured the lucid perceptions of a singularly clear and masculine intellect;
while the Rosicrucianism of so vigorously-minded a man as Samuel Johnson was the plain result
of that constitutional melancholy under which he labored--fortified, it may be, by theological
tenets which bordered on the mystical: but what could Napoleon mean by Fate, or Talleyrand
by Destiny? They were both of them unbelievers in spiritualism of any kind; and whence could
those intimations come of which Talleyrand, at least, conceived himself to be the recipient?
He was obviously possessed by the idea that numerous premonitions had been vouchsafed to him;
and what chiefly moved in him a desire to visit Scotland was, not its scenery, its lakes, its
mountains, or its people, but a wish to inquire into the (as he supposed) natural faculty of
divination. The dream may be of Jove[19]--Homer is a sound heathen authority upon this point;
but Talleyrand was no dreamer. His "presentiments" (for so he loved to call them), were, apparently,
sudden intuitions, which he was wholly unable to explain, but in which he placed so much confidence
that he acted upon them to the letter--so says M. Colmache--and never, it would seem, in vain.
They directed him rightly; and when, in old age, he had gathered around him at Vallençay all
that remained of the wit, genius, and talent of French society in its better forms, he delighted
to recount the instances in which this supernatural influence, like Socrates' dæmon, had befriended
him. He believed in the reality of this power when he believed in nothing else, and that is
the puzzle.

Having once returned to France, Talleyrand never again quitted it--at least, as an exile; but
continued for the next forty years of his eventful life to cultivate the art of advancement,
and to study carefully the means of acquiring a fortune: and he succeeded in both. The First
Consul found in his extraordinary abilities precisely what he wanted and he in the First Consul
that social support which he required, and upon which he found he could rely. There was no
mutual esteem, however, between these remarkable men, whom interest alone bound together; and
Bonaparte has left upon record his opinion of his Minister for Foreign Affairs, delivered at
a time when he had nothing to expect from the favors of men or the caprices of Fortune. "Talleyrand,"
said Napoleon, at St. Helena, "is a corrupt man, who has betrayed all parties and persons.
Wary and circumspect, always a traitor, but always in conspiracy with Fortune, Talleyrand treats
his enemies as if they were one day to become his friends, and his friends as if they were
to become his enemies. He is a man of unquestionable talent, but venial in every thing. Nothing
could be done with him but by means of bribery."[20] This is not complimentary; and it would
be curious to compare such a sentence of condemnation with the judgment of Talleyrand on Napoleon
which is contained in his memoirs, for that there is one we need not doubt.

Talleyrand's department as a minister of state was that of Foreign Affairs, and the future
historian of his diplomatic career will have to review his connection with all the great incidents
which occurred in Europe from the year 1797 to his death, in 1838. That he was supple, unscrupulous,
and able, is the conclusion of mankind at large; and, we presume, the correct one.

Passion never disturbed him, and feeling (except for himself) seldom. A revolutionary education
superinduced upon a cold nature a distrust of all men--ay, and of women, too; and he seems
to have entertained just so much respect for political stability of any kind as circumstances
warranted, and no more. He was no believer in the reality of virtue--itself a quality of which
he had but an inadequate conception, and to the active operation of which he would have held
it to be mere simplicity and folly to trust. We may infer, therefore, that what he did not
look for he did not find; and that, as generally happens to those who are wise beyond what
is written, he denied the existence of a property, with the use of which, could it have been
discovered, he was wholly unacquainted. He served the emperor so long as it was consistent
with his interests to do so, and he deserted him when he saw that there was more peril in fidelity
than in apostasy. The Restoration was, in a great measure, the work of his hands, though he
hated Louis XVIII. mortally; and the grounds of that hatred were, apparently, personal, resting
partly on those antipathies which dissimilarity in habits and taste is apt to generate in all
ranks of life, and partly on disappointed ambition. Louis was fat; Talleyrand was thin. Louis
liked good eating (most men do, by the way, be they kings or not); Talleyrand cared little
for it, and ate but once a day. Louis had, rightly or wrongly, an idea that he was an independent
monarch, to whose volitions some regard was due, and the legitimate sovereign of one of the
greatest kingdoms in Europe; Talleyrand saw in him only a political stop-gap and glutton, to
whose wishes little deference was owing, and whose intellect he despised: but he took care
not to refuse the bounties or the honors bestowed upon him by his royal master--nor can we
repress a smile when we find such a man gravely rebuking that prince for utter heartlessness
and selfishness. It might be, and probably was so, but assuredly Talleyrand was not the person
to make the charge.

The erection of the throne of the Barricades was also Talleyrand's work, if we may believe
M. Colmache; and many of the incidents connected with the expulsion of Charles X., and the
elevation of the Duke of Orleans, which are given in this volume, possess at this moment an
instructive and melancholy interest, when we consider where the aspirant for that perilous
honor is now, and what a dark cloud has settled down upon the stormy evening of his ambitious
life.[21] Had we space, we would give some of these details; but we have not, and must be contented
to refer to the book for them. The object of the writer, however, is, to construct an exculpation,
and to vindicate (vain task!) the memory of Talleyrand from the reproach of ingratitude; but
it is abundantly evident, even from the narrative itself, that if not one of the most active,
he was, at least, one of the most zealous, promoters of the Revolution of 1830. There was little
sympathy between Charles and Talleyrand, though he preferred him much to his brother Louis.
He even admitted--which, for him, was going far--that Charles was distinguished in private
life by many excellent qualities; that he had "a feeling and a generous nature, and was a faithful
and grateful friend;" but for many, and some of them obvious enough reasons, he disliked "the
devout monarch," and we are told that Charles "returned tenfold in hatred and suspicion all
the pity and contempt which the wily diplomatist sought to cast upon his government." The conclusion
is, of course, plain. Talleyrand saw that every thing was going wrong, as did every body else
after the event. He, therefore, withdrew from Paris in the winter of 1829--30; and, under the
pretense of consulting his health, retired to Rochecotte, in Touraine, the seat of his niece,
the Duchess de Dino. He had no political object in view, and was only driven "by the force
of circumstances," into that vortex which was whirling tout le monde in the capital round about;
but, somehow or other, the leaders of the movement gathered around him in his retreat, and,
unfortunately for the theory of neutrality, it is stated that "it was at Rochecotte, during
the month of May, which Thiers spent there with M. de Talleyrand, that he (i.e., Thiers) conceived
the plan of those terrific articles in the National, which, every morning, like the battering-rams
of ancient warfare, laid in ruins the wretched bulwarks, behind which the tottering monarchy
thought itself secure." (P. 32.)

All this was, no doubt, purely accidental; and, as the editor of the National was a person
of no social consideration whatever, it would be absurd to suppose that the Prince of Benevento
had any secondary purpose to achieve by patronizing so obscure an adventurer. It turns out,
indeed, that "M. Thiers was, in the eyes of M. Talleyrand, nothing more than a young writer,
full of vigor and talent, whom the old seigneur loved to protect, and to initiate into the
manners and customs of good society, without a knowledge of which (he would often say) there
can be no good taste in literature. But he was the last person in the world who, at that time,
would have looked upon Thiers as a conspirator, of whom he was making himself, by such protection,
the vile associate." (P. 33.)

This should settle the point, and yet it does nothing of the kind; for, as if it were necessary
that a mystery should involve all the actions of this man's life, and even comprehend his friends,
we find in this very volume, and in immediate succession to the energetic disclaimer we have
just quoted, the most elaborate proofs of his "complicity" in that "conspiracy," which ended
by dethroning one monarch and elevating another. A single passage will set this matter at rest
forever, and here it is:

"It has been to this day a matter of speculation whether the Duke of Orleans had anticipated
being called to the throne, or whether it was the force of circumstances which had brought
him to it. These are the facts: Although the Duke of Orleans had for a long time looked upon
the event of a change in the dynasty as possible, and was most certainly prepared[22] to place
the crown upon his own head in case of such an event, yet even so late as the 30th of July
he hesitated to grasp it, and resisted the arguments and persuasions of Thiers. It is a known
fact that the duke was concealed in the environs of Neuilly in fear of a popular outbreak,
when a secret message from M. de Talleyrand, which he received on the evening of that day,
caused him to decide at length upon re-entering Paris, and proclaiming himself Lieutenant-General
of the Kingdom--the head of the new power. The new king soon forgot, however, this proof of
attachment (attachment!!) on the part of his old friend; and M. de Talleyrand, who knew that
kings, even when chosen by the will of the people, are, for the most part, compelled to be
illustres ingrats, never, during the years which followed these events, alluded to the circumstances
which brought about the avénement of Louis Philippe." (P. 35.)

And again:

"Now came the time when the high intelligence and marvelous sagacity of the prince were brought
into action, and I hesitate not to repeat, saved the country. M. de Talleyrand dispatched to
Neuilly, with all possible speed, a little billet written with his own hand. The bearer was
a person of high courage and great integrity, and was charged, should he fall into danger,
to destroy the billet. He could not in honor read its contents, but saw that there were but
few words traced upon the paper. They were addressed to the king's sister, Madame Adelaide.
This messenger was commissioned to place the billet himself in the hands of the princess, and
to tell her that the Prince de Talleyrand conjured her to warn the Duke of Orleans that not
a moment was to be lost; that the duke might reckon upon his aid, and that he must appear immediately;
that he must come at once to Paris, to place himself at the head of the movement, or all would
be lost without recall. Above all, he was only to take the title of Lieutenant-General of the
Kingdom, which Charles had conferred upon him before leaving St. Cloud. He implored him not
to manifest any other intention. In this advice the old diplomatist was reserving for himself
a back door to creep out at in case Charles should march on Paris." (P. 39.)

There follows this conclusive revelation an account of Madame Adelaide's astuteness (astuce)--her
anxiety not to commit herself in writing; her transmission to Prince Talleyrand of a verbal
message; and of the climax of the whole intrigue in the arrival in Paris that same night of
Louis Philippe, and of his proclamation in his capacity of Lieutenant-General of the Kingdom.
The transition from this to royalty was easy, for it had been pre-arranged. It was M. de Talleyrand,
we are assured, who overcame the "faint scruples" of the Duke of Orleans, and it was his advice
that "decided the king to go at once to the Hôtel de Ville, there to receive publicly the sceptre
of France, and to swear allegiance to the charter."

After such statements as these, what useful purpose can it serve to declaim about conspiracies,
reservations, and the like, when they so conspicuously testify to the fact, that one of the
most energetic agents--after his own peculiar way--in bringing about a change of dynasty in
France, was the very man whose memory his secretary is so anxious to relieve from this reproach?
It is mere folly and blundering to do so, the more especially when we are told that the Orleans
party comprehended all the leading members of the "Opposition" in both Chambers; that M. de
Talleyrand was its head; and that, without declaring himself in favor of the new régime, he
regulated all its movements, and was in constant and direct communication with the individual
in whose behalf the Revolution of 1830 was got up. It is idle to quarrel about words; but if
this was not "conspiracy," it was something so exceedingly like it, that it would require a
very nice eye, indeed, to detect wherein the difference lay. The simple truth is this--that
Talleyrand and his associates did in 1829-30, what Odillon Barrot and his accomplices (including
the ubiquitous Thiers) did in 1847-48, but more successfully; for there can be no comparison
between the government established under Louis Philippe and that inaugurated in the person
of Louis Napoleon, and still less between the prospect of happiness which France enjoyed in
1830, and that which lies before her in 1850. The experiment has been closely copied by M.
de Talleyrand's pupils, though the result has not been analogous; but this does not depend
so much upon the men as upon the circumstances. Such a substitute for legitimate authority
as the Duke of Orleans was can not be found twice in the same age and country; and one of the
most mournful spectacles of our time is, the fate of the man and his family, for whom all these
violent, and we must add, tortuous exertions, were made twenty years ago. Talleyrand's share
in these transactions can not be gainsaid. Though a revolutionist, in so far as the elder branch
of the Bourbons was concerned, he was not, however, a Republican in 1830; and had, probably,
never been honestly so at any period of his life. The feeling of the ancient seigneur was strong
in him to the last; and his constitutional timidity made him shrink with instinctive aversion
from all contact with the mob: hence his terror during the "three glorious days of July" was
agonizing: and when he discovered that, in the bloody triumph of the populace, no superiority
of rank, talent, or fortune, was regarded, he trembled for his own safety--"for he knew that
the people loved him not."

Talleyrand survived this, his last great political exploit, nearly eight years, having expired
tranquilly at his hôtel in Paris, in May, 1838. His ex-secretary has a copious and rambling
commentary upon his death, in which there is the usual amount of complaint and vindication.
His patron had become reconciled to the church, and had submitted to its formalities immediately
before his decease; and, considering his past hostility to it as a social institution, his
renunciation of his sacred vows, and his ostentatious rejection of the Christian religion,
such a step naturally caused some talk, and requires explanation--though none is given by M.
Colmache, beyond the barren and somewhat commonplace intimation, that "he was influenced in
this, as in many other instances, wherein he has drawn down the blame of the sticklers for
consistency, by the desire to spare pain and trouble to his family; for he knew that his relatives
would suffer much inconvenience by his resistance on his death-bed to the execution of certain
religious formalities to which, in his own mind, he attached not the slightest importance."

It is rather a delicate matter to scrutinize motives, however great the temptation to do so,
may be: fortunately, however, all call for the performance of so ungracious a duty on the present
occasion is removed by M. Colmache, who tells us frankly what the reason was which induced
M. de Talleyrand to enact something like a solemn farce in his dying moments. It was not religious
compunction, nor any affectation of it, but a regard for the convenience and the material interests
of his successors; "for it can not be denied," said he, "that he had ever held in view the
elevation and aggrandizement of his family."

Certainly not. Nobody will be bold enough to do so. What prompted Voltaire to attend his parish
church regularly to the last hour of his life, and even to take the communion; what led Franklin
to mingle in the throngs which crowded around Whitefield in America; and what induced Gibbon
to visit temples of religion when he had nothing else to do, and to record his impressions
of the sermons he was condemned to listen to, must forever remain among the minor mysteries
of humanity; but about M. de Talleyrand's "retraction," as it has been called, strange to say,
there is no mystery at all. It was a mere exemplification of "the ruling passion strong in
death." He could no longer care for himself, which had been the chief business of his life;
but he could do what was next thing to it--he could care for his relations whom he was leaving
behind him, and he did so.

The querulous part of this statement relates to Louis Philippe. The monarch, as is well known,
visited his aged servant on his death-bed, and, we have not a doubt, behaved both gracefully
and kindly. M. Colmache, however, does not think so, and all but abuses the king for an act
which, being spontaneous, has the look, if it had not the reality, of benevolence. His manner
was, it seems, constrained, the task itself was irksome, and his "bearing," as compared with
that of the dying statesman, tant son peu bourgeois. "Despite the old faded dressing-gown of
the one, and the snuff-colored coat, stiff neckcloth, and polished boots of the other, the
veriest barbarian could have told at a glance which was the 'last of the nobles,' and which
the 'First Citizen' of the Empire." (P. 343.)

This would be severe were it not sheer gossip, and gossip dictated by a feeling of intense
hostility to Louis Philippe, who committed the unpardonable blunder of not bestowing any particular
regard upon the prince's secretary, though, with others, he had been specially introduced to
him. In that case, and if M. Colmache really was, as he says, present in the chamber when this
interview took place, we can only express our surprise that his account of it is so meagre;
for it is impossible to believe that the last conversation between two men so distinguished,
and so closely united by the ties of mutual obligation, should have been confined to a formal
inquiry and a formal reply, which is all we find in this volume. We are at a loss to know,
also, why the king should have been less of a gentleman and more of a tradesman in his manners
and appearance than M. de Talleyrand; for, if that has any thing to do with the matter, he
was as certainly one of the "last of the nobles," as his minister; and as we find nothing in
M. Colmache's book respecting this valedictory visit, which the journals had not promulgated
at the time of its occurrence, we are not only led to doubt the fact of his having been present,
but likewise to withhold all confidence from his relation of its details. One reflection, however,
he does make, which, as read in 1850, is curious: "I had looked," he says, "upon this visit
as the farewell of the safely-landed voyager (landed, too, amid storm and tempest), to the
wise and careful pilot who had steered him skillfully through rock and breaker, and now pushed
off alone amid the darkness, to be seen no more!" (P. 344.)

Alas for human wisdom in its most imposing forms! where is now the "skillful pilot?" Dead,
and his skill buried with him. And the "voyager" whom he "steered" into a secure haven amid
"storm and tempest?" A fugitive and an exile, driven from the rickety throne which Talleyrand's
necromancy had conjured up by a wave of his wand, and which his sagacious biographer obviously
considered to be as stable as the globe itself:

   Fato profugus ...
   Multum ille et terris jactatus, et alto.

The share which Talleyrand is alleged to have had in the murder of the Duc d'Enghein, and which
the Duke of Rovigo positively declared to have been, from first to last, a contrivance of his,[23]
we must pass over in comparative silence; as the subject is one which it is impossible to elucidate,
and which we could not hope to discuss with any profit in the short space which remains to
us. If noticed at all in this volume, we have unfortunately mislaid the reference to it; and
in a work which is without an index, and which has been compiled with a total disregard to
chronological arrangement, we have not been able to recover it. All the parties to that infamous
transaction were anxious in after times to shift the culpability from off their own shoulders;
and amidst the criminations and recriminations of the future dukes and princes of the Empire,
there is little positive knowledge of any kind to be gained. It might be, as Fouché said, "worse
than a crime--a blunder;" but there was certainly nothing about the act itself from which a
man of Talleyrand's lax morality would have shrunk; and our present impression is, that he
was privy to this odious and useless tragedy, if the whole scheme of the violation of a neutral
territory, the arrest, the mock trial, and the execution, did not originate with him. Even
Napoleon regretted the occurrence, though he was too inflexible in his character to throw the
blame on others when the deed was done, and at St. Helena he took the whole responsibility
of it upon himself. "The Duc d'Enghein," said he, "died, because I willed it." This is the
style imperial, but it is not the expression of a fact; and the Duke of Rovigo, with great
probability, attributes this language to the desire which he latterly manifested to impress
upon others a lofty idea of his absolute power as a sovereign. He was at the time only First
Consul, and he has himself stated that, to use a familiar phrase, he was worried into it by
those about him. "I did not rightly know," says he, "who the Duc d'Enghein was. The Revolution
had come upon me when I was very young, and I had never been at court. All these points were
explained to me. If it be so, I said, he must be seized, and the necessary orders were given
in consequence. Every thing had been provided beforehand. The papers were prepared, and there
was nothing to do but to sign them, and the fate of the prince was already decided."[24] This,
if accepted as true--and we see no reason why it should not be--is conclusive; and if Bonaparte
may be believed, a letter addressed to him from Strasburgh by the duke was kept by Talleyrand,
and not delivered up till after the execution. He likewise committed the gross outrage upon
public decency of giving a masked ball to the diplomatic body on the night of the unfortunate
prince's death; and, all the circumstances taken into account, we fear there can be no doubt
of his active participation (to say no more) in one of the foulest political enormities of
modern times. His motive for allowing himself to be involved in so perilous an enterprise was,
as usual, altogether personal. He dreaded lest a successful conspiracy formed beyond the Rhine
might lead (a vain apprehension) to the restoration of the Bourbons; and he would seem to have
taken this dark mode of preventing it, for he had offended too deeply to expect forgiveness.
But let us proceed to another theme--his marriage.

It is well known that Napoleon obtained from the fears of the Pope, Pius VII., a brief of secularization
for his Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that Talleyrand subsequently married Madame Grand,
or, as she is called in this book, Grandt, a lady who had lived with him as his mistress, and
who, in consequence of this transformation, became no less a personage than the Princesse de
Benevento of the Imperial Court. Much has been written about this woman, whose history was
long a mystery; and of whose ignorance, étourderies, and arrogance, every body has heard something.
In this volume her introduction to Talleyrand is related in the usual melo-dramatic style of
French writers, and her beauty described with that fullness of detail which approaches to voluptuousness.
The meeting was accidental, at least on Talleyrand's part. Returning at an early hour of the
morning from a gambling visit to the Chevalier Fénélon, the particulars of which are hideous,
he found his study occupied by a female, who had waited for five hours alone in the chamber;
and who was now fast asleep in an arm-chair by the fire, the upper part of her body enveloped
in a fashionable mantle, and the lower part displaying the gilded finery of a ball-dress. The
diplomatist was stupefied by the fair vision, which he gazed upon with admiration, and having
tried in vain to awaken her by coughing, and other innocent devices, he took up a letter addressed
to himself which lay upon the table, and which he found to be from a friend, requesting him
to give madame the benefit of his advice in a difficulty in which no one else could assist
her. The servant slams the door--the lady awakes--a scene of mutual confusion ensues, which
tries to the utmost M. Colmache's powers of description, but which ends in M. de Talleyrand
giving to the lovely applicant the document she required, and in the commencement of a liaison
which ultimately terminated in matrimony. It was, of course, a trick or practical joke, which
had been played off by certain wags, male and female, at Madame Hamelin's assembly on the unsuspecting
and guileless Madame Grand, according to M. Colmache; but to any one else it will seem plain
enough that it was no more than the step of a daring and clever intriguante, who knew perfectly
well what she was about, and who had resolved to conquer where Madame Tallien and Madame Beauharnais
had failed--and she did conquer.

Who, then, was this bold lady who contrived so cunningly to ensnare in her toils the wariest
man in France? "I have heard," says M. Colmache, "that she was of English origin. This is not
true. Her maiden name was Dayot, and she was born at L'Orient; but her connection with India,
where a great part of her family resided, and the peculiar character of her beauty, would seem
to have been the ground-work of the supposition." (P. 298). We can not clear up this riddle
altogether, but we can do something toward its partial solution.

Her family name we are unacquainted with, but she was a native of Scotland, and her first husband
was a British officer, though we are likewise ignorant of his name. Her marriage most likely
took place in India, and at an early age: for after her husband's death she became the wife
of a M. Grand, a French gentleman, who obtained a divorce from her in India in consequence
of an improper intimacy with Mr., afterward the celebrated Sir Philip Francis. How long she
lived with Mr. Francis we know not, but she subsequently passed under the protection of a Mr.
William Macintosh, a British merchant, with whom she returned to Europe in 1781. Mr. Macintosh's
private affairs calling him to France, Madame Grand accompanied him; but her protector was
an unfortunate man, whose claims upon the French Government were dissipated by the Revolution,
and we lose sight of his friend altogether till her reappearance on the theatre of the great
world, after that event, as the companion of Madame Beauharnais, and other celebrated women
of that day. There is thus a blank in her personal history of twenty-one years which we are
quite unable to fill up, and which we must leave to be supplied by others. Mr. Macintosh died
at Eisenach, in Saxony, in 1809, at an advanced age; but his name is no longer associated with
that of Madame Grand. He left a daughter, who became afterward the Countess de Colville; but
whether Madame Grand was her mother, or whether he had married after his separation from that
lady, are points on which we can throw no light.[25]

Such, then, was the much-talked-of Madame de Talleyrand, Princesse de Benevento. The date of
her death is not given, but she certainly predeceased her last husband by several years. This
marriage was not productive of happiness. There was not only much difference of habits, temper,
and bearing, between the parties, to say nothing of the antecedents of both, but it appears
that madame was jealous "of every member of her husband's family," to whom he showed affection.
A separation was the consequence, and this loving couple dwelt in distinct establishments till
the end of their lives.

It is a remarkable, and not uninstructive fact, that the revolution could not extinguish the
cultivated instincts of this extraordinary man; and one of the most interesting things in this
volume, is the glimpses which we occasionally get of his impressions of the new order of things.
Harsh, and even cruel, as the old society had been to him, it had a profound hold upon his
affections; and when the solitude and satiety of age invited reflection, he was compelled "to
doubt whether the good which had been gained could ever compensate for that which had been
forfeited". He lived on the memory of the past, and drew his best inspirations from it. "Where,"
said he, "is the wit of your salons, the independence of your writers, the charm and influence
of your women? What have you received in exchange for all these, which have fled forever? I
would not give the remembrance of these times for all the novelty, and what you call improvements
of the social system of to-day, even with the youth and spirit necessary to enjoyment. 'Tis
true, there were abuse and exaggeration in many of our institutions, but where is the system
in which these do not exist? If our people were devoured with misery and taxes, yours is wasting
to the core with envy and discontent. Our noblesse was corrupt and prodigal; yours is bourgeoise
and miserly--greater evils still for the prosperity of the nation. If our king had many mistresses,
yours has many masters. Has he gained by the exchange? Thus you see it clearly demonstrated,
that not one of the three orders has advanced in happiness by these wonderful improvements
which you so much admire."[26] This is a strange testimony to the blessings of revolution on
a grand scale, and from one, too, who had been in the midst of it as a prominent actor; but
we suspect it is what most others, in like circumstances, would give were they candid, and
what, after all, is simply true. Let any man of sound understanding look at France now, and
say what she has gained, or the world through her, from the last outburst of popular fury;
which has not only left her the prey of charlatanism, but made her the victim of the grossest
passions. Talleyrand was, undoubtedly, right in his retrospect, but his healthy convictions
came too late to be of any use.

Of Talleyrand's literary habits little is known that can be relied upon, but M. Colmache tells
as, that "he could neither write nor dictate with ease"; and that the most trifling productions
of his pen caused him as much trouble as the most elaborate dispatch. This may have proceeded
from fastidiousness in the choice of language, but was, most probably, attributable to the
defects of his education, and to the want of early practice in composition. We are not told
what kind of reading pleased him, nor whether he was addicted to books; but he was a great
admirer of Voltaire, with whom he had conversed in early life, and whose style, of its class,
is perfect. He always deplored the scantiness of his classical attainments, and, particularly,
his ignorance of the Greek tongue; and, so far as this volume teaches us, he would not appear
to have been what it is customary to call a learned man. M. Colmache gives us certain "maxims
for seasoning conversation," which, he says, were Talleyrand's, but which convey to the mind
the idea of a lively and acute, rather than that of a profound thinker. If they want the bitterness
of Rochefoucauld, they have not the point and pith of Bacon, nor the gravity of Locke. Three
of these may suffice as specimens, and as favorable ones:

"Both erudition and agriculture ought to be encouraged by government; wit and manufactures
will come of themselves.

"Metaphysics always remind me of the caravanseras in the desert. They stand solitary and unsupported,
and are always ready to crumble into ruin.

"A great capitalist is like a vast lake, upon whose bosom ships can navigate; but which is
useless to the country, because no stream issues therefrom to fertilize the land."

M. Colmache professes to give two fragments of the Memoirs, but he does not state how he came
by them, and we doubt the fact of their being genuine. They are gracefully written, however,
and that on the death of Mr. Fox particularly so. In his "Maxims" he speaks of women disrespectfully--a
consequence, no doubt, of his disregard for the domestic virtues, and of the dissolute manners
which prevailed in the higher ranks of French society in his time--and of the priesthood contemptuously.
No hatred is so intense, or so durable, as that which is begotten of apostasy; and a renegade
clerk, or a renegade politician, may be always expected to rail fiercely against his original
creed. In his personal habits, the Prince of the Empire would seem to have adhered closely
to the manners of the ancien régime, in the bosom of which he had been nurtured. He was courtly,
formal, and somewhat exclusive; but his rigid temperance, and his regularity were proper to
the man, and neither to the past nor present age. Of his bons mots we have a sprinkling, and
but a sprinkling, in this volume; but the celebrated one about language is not there, though
others of less piquancy are. Did M. Colmache consider it of apocryphal authenticity? We suspect so.

To sum up, then, What was the character of M. de Talleyrand? Of his extraordinary abilities
there is no question, since men of every variety of feeling and position have borne testimony
to them; but, was he great, great as we esteem any of the models of our own, or other countries?
We think not. Celebrated he might be, but great he was not. No intensely selfish man like Talleyrand
can ever become so. Where there is so much individual concentration, there is no room left
for that expansion of the faculties of the soul upon which true renown rests, and out of which
it springs. The region in which the mind acts is, necessarily, circumscribed by the constant
pressure of a never-absent egotism; and when this mental constitution happens to be united
to timidity, distrust, and temperamental coldness, greatness ceases to be a possible achievement.
Moreover, he wanted principle, which is the natural foundation of public virtue; and he had
no higher an idea of morality than its conveniency. His sense of propriety, which, in some
cases was high, was merely a conventional instinct but it was derived from no anterior obligation,
and recognized no source more elevated than the canons of society. Of duty (that sacred word!)
in its English sense, he had not the faintest conception; and provided that his person was
protected, and his fortunes advanced, it was a matter of absolute indifference to him what
master he served, or in what cause he enlisted. The first revolution, the empire, the restoration,
and the throne of the barricades, all found in him a willing and an able instrument, and yet
he proved faithless to all; for, though we have not circumstantial proof of this as to the
last, his growing discontent with Louis Philippe shows clearly, that the political weathercock
was again veering. Even when we make allowance for the very peculiar circumstances by which
he was surrounded from his entry into life until his exit from it, it is impossible to doubt
that this versatility was a consequence of a particular mental organization, and that, if rigorously
analyzed, its causes would be found to resolve themselves into habits of reasoning upon men
and things from which courage, generosity, and masculine disinterestedness, were carefully
excluded. Patriotism may be pleaded in justification--it is a ready argument, and a common
defense; but, ample as its proportions are, it will not cover every thing: besides that, in
Talleyrand's case it was a non-existence, for of that holy love of country which the word is
designed to convey, and which is the fruitful mother of moral heroism, he had not one particle.
He might be, and no doubt was, the clever minister of a system, whatever that system chanced
to be, and we know that he carried out the views of his immediate employers à toute outrance,
and without the slightest regard to their future social or political consequences; but of any
grand conceptions resting upon the rights, or contemplating the happiness of mankind, and discriminated
from the claims of an existing dynasty, be it democratical or monarchical, he was utterly incapable.
Carpe diem was his motto, and he was faithful to it; but however proper that Epicurean maxim
might have been in the mouth of a Roman poet, or however truly it might depict the philosophy
of a Roman courtesan, it is the deadly antagonist of greatness, which it blights in the bud.
Out of such a nature as this--a nature unequal to the slightest sacrifice for the benefit of
others, conservative of itself, and indifferent to all the world besides, it is impossible
to make a great, though it may be easy enough to make a celebrated man--and such we take M.
de Talleyrand, Prince de Benevento, to have been.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 17: Revelations of the Life of Prince Talleyrand. Edited from the Papers of the late
M. Colmache, Private Secretary to the Prince. Second Edition. One Volume. London, 1850. H.
Colburn.]

[Footnote 18: Suetonius, in Vita, cap. 92.]

[Footnote 19: [Greek: Onar ek Dios estin].]

[Footnote 20: Voice from St. Helena.]

[Footnote 21: The reader will perceive that this was written before the death of Louis Philippe,
which took place at Claremont on the 26th day of August last.]

[Footnote 22: The italics are not ours.]

[Footnote 23: See Caulincourt's Recollections, &c. vol. ii. Appendix.]

[Footnote 24: Caulincourt, vol. ii. p. 274, 5.]

[Footnote 25: The particulars have been gleaned from a few scanty notices contained in an unpublished
volume by the late George Macintosh, Esq., the nephew of the Mr. Wm. Macintosh spoken of above,
entitled, Biographical Memoir of the late Charles Macintosh, Esq., F.R.S. &c. &c. Glasgow, 1847.]

[Footnote 26: P. 210. The italics are in the original.]

THE DANGERS OF DOING WRONG. A TALE OF THE SEA-SIDE.

BY AGNES STRICKLAND.

"And so you will not join our party to Dunwich fair to-morrow, Elizabeth?" said Margaret Blackbourne
to the pretty daughter of the Vicar of Southwold, with whom she was returning from a long ramble
along the broken cliffs toward Eastern Bavent, one lovely July evening in the year 1616.

Southwold, be it known to such of my readers as may happen to be unacquainted with its locale,
is a pretty retired bathing town on the coast of Suffolk, remarkable for its picturesque scenery
and salubrious air. At the time when the events on which my tale is founded took place, Southwold,
though it boasted none of the pretty marine villas which now grace the Gunhill and centre cliffs,
was a place of greater wealth and importance than with all its modern improvements it is at
present. It was then one of the most flourishing sea-ports in Suffolk, and occasionally sheltered
in its ample bay the stateliest ships in the British navy. And, in addition to the little corn-brigs
and colliers, whose light sails alone vary the blue expanse of waters, a mighty fleet of vessels
of war might not unfrequently be seen stretching in majestic order along the undulating coast
between Eastenness and Dunwich, and the more remote promontory of Orford-Ness. Dunwich, too,
that Tyre of the East Angles, sat not then so wholly desolate on her crumbling cliff as now
overlooking, in dust and ashes, the devouring waves of the German ocean in which her former
glory lies buried two centuries ago. Dunwich, however changed and fallen from what she was
in olden time, still retained the rank of a city; and, instead of the miserable horde of smugglers'
and fishermen's huts we now behold, with the roofless remains of one lonely church, there were
busy and populous streets, with shops, and some appearances of maritime enterprise and mercantile
prosperity. The annual fair, which still takes place there on St. James's-day, was at that
time considered as a most attractive holiday by the denizens of all the scattered towns and
villages along that picturesque coast. Many a well-manned yawl and light sailing-vessel would,
in those days, put off from Southwold, Lowestofft, or Aldborough, freighted with a pleasure-loving
crew, eager to enjoy a summer voyage and a merry day at old Dunwich.

A great revolution has taken place in public opinion since then, with respect to fairs, which,
so far from being exclusively the saturnalia of the vulgar and dissolute, were then used as
marts for the sale of various articles of domestic produce; and regarded by all classes of
society as seasons of social glee, where all met together, from the highest to the lowest,
in gala array, with smiles on their faces, and good-will in their hearts, to participate in
cheerful sports and harmless mirth, in which good order and decency were observed out of respect
for the presence of ladies and gentlemen.

Christopher Younges, Elizabeth's father, was, however, a man of stern notions; and looking
on the dark side of the picture, the abuse of such assemblages, he absolutely condemned them
as affording fatal opportunities for the idle, the extravagant, and the dissipated to indulge
in sinful excesses, and to seduce the weak and unstable to follow bad example. He had never,
on any occasion, permitted his pretty daughter Elizabeth, then in the opening bloom of eighteen,
to display her youthful charms and gay attire even at the annual fair held in their own town,
and she knew, as she told her gay companion, Margaret, "that it would be in vain to ask his
permission to join the festive party on the morrow."

"For my part," rejoined Margaret, "I would as lief be a nun, and live shut up between four
stone walls, as be subjected to such restraints! My father is the worshipful bailiff of this
town, but he never stands in the way of a little harmless pleasure."

"Very true, Margaret; but my father, being a minister of the Gospel, understands these things
better, you know."

"What! better than a magistrate? the chief magistrate of the borough and corporation of Southwold,
Bessy Younges? No, no, my dear; you won't persuade me to that. Your father is a very good kind
of man, and has a deal of book knowledge; but my father says, 'he knows very little of the
world, and is far too stiff in his notions for his congregation,'" exclaimed Margaret.

"It may be so," observed Elizabeth, "but as I am bound to pay double attention to my father's
advice, both as my parent and my pastor, I beg to hear no more on the subject."

"As you please, Elizabeth;--but have you seen Arthur yet?"

"Arthur! I thought he was at sea."

"He landed this morning at seven."

"And you not to tell me of it before!"

"I thought you had seen him; but I dare say he has called at the Vicarage while we have been
out walking."

"How very provoking!"

"Never mind; you will have enough of his company to-morrow, if you go to Dunwich fair with us."

"But I am not going to Dunwich fair!" cried Elizabeth, pettishly; "and if Arthur Blackbourne
goes without me I will never speak to him again."

"And if you do not there are plenty in this town who will be ready to pull caps for him, I
can tell you. There is Joan Bates will be only too happy to sit by him in the boat, and she says--"

"Something vastly impertinent, I dare say; but I don't want to hear any of her cross speeches
second-hand: I beg you will save yourself the trouble of repeating them, Margaret. It is getting
late, and I must hasten home."

Time had, indeed, stolen a march on the vicar's fair daughter, while she had been discussing
this interesting subject with her youthful friend and gossip, the sister of her sailor lover;
for the full-orbed moon had already reared her bright face over the swelling waves, and was
pouring a flood of radiance through the bay, and illuminating the high-arched windows of All-Saints'
church on the distant dark promontory of Dunwich cat-cliff.

Elizabeth turned resolutely about to pursue a homeward path; but, at the little turnstile leading
to the vicarage, which then with its neat garden and paddock adjoined the western boundary
of the church-yard, she encountered Arthur Blackbourne and her brother Edward.

"Where have you been cruising out of your course, girls, for the last age?" cried Arthur: "here
have I been giving chase to you both in all directions, till I have hardly a leg to stand on!"

"We have only been for a walk to Easton Broad," said Elizabeth.

"A walk to Easton Broad, the very evening of my return, and without me!"

"How should I know you were home?"

"There were other girls in the town who contrived to find it out;--ay, and pretty girls too--but
they took the trouble of keeping a look-out for the Jolly Nicholas," rejoined Arthur, reproachfully.

"So did Bessy, I am sure!" exclaimed the boy Edward, with great vivacity; "why, she wholly
crazed us about the Jolly Nicholas, and sent me a dozen times a day to ask our old pilots at
the station, whether she were in sight, till they were so sick of the Jolly Nicholas and me,
that they got as savage as so many sea-bears, and gave me the name of 'Old Nick' for my pains."

"Joan Bates was on the beach to welcome me on shore when I landed," pursued Arthur.

"Just like her; she is always so forward," retorted Elizabeth.

"It would be well if some people thought as much of me as Joan Bates," continued Arthur.

"And if you have nothing more agreeable to say to me, Arthur Blackbourne, I will wish you good
night," said Elizabeth. "Come, Edward."

"You are in a mighty hurry, I think; when you have not seen me for six months, and I have thought
of you, sleeping and waking, all that time, and now you won't speak one kind word to a poor
fellow!" said the young sailor.

"I have spoken quite as many as you deserve," retorted Elizabeth; "if you want flattery, you
may go to Joan Bates."

"And so I will, if you are not more lovingly disposed the next time we meet," said Arthur;
"but you will be better tempered, I hope, at Dunwich fair to-morrow."

"I am not going to Dunwich fair."

"Not going to Dunwich fair, Bessy! a pretty joke, i'faith, when the Royal Anne is new painted
and rigged with her best flags and canvas all ready to take us; and we have the prospect of
a glorious day to-morrow."

"No matter; I shall not go."

"How very perverse;--just to vex me, I suppose!"

"You know my father does not approve of fairs."

"Fiddle-de-dee! there will be plenty of people as good as Parson Younges at Dunwich fair, and
some a little wiser, mayhap."

"I am sure there is no harm in going to a fair," said the boy Edward; "and, oh, dear! how I
should like to go to-morrow."

"So you shall, my hearty, if you can persuade Bessy to go with us."

"Pray, sister, let us go! there will be such fine doings;--a pair of dancing bears, and three
jack-an-apes dressed like soldiers, a mountebank with an Andrew and a Master Merriman, and
such lots of booths with toys, and beads, and ribbons; more cakes and sweetmeats than I could
eat in a year; besides a merry-go-round and two flying ships. Then, there will be wrestling
and cudgel-playing, foot-ball, jumping in sacks, and dancing on the church-green to the pipe
and tabor, and you dance so well."

"And we should dance together," whispered the handsome mate of the Jolly Nicholas.

"It is all very fine talking; but my father will never consent."

"Tut, tut; you have not asked him yet."

"It would be useless if I did."

"That is more than I know; for no ship is always in the same tack. Men change their minds as
often as girls; and if you coax the old boy handsomely, when you bid him good-night, my compass
to your distaff, he'll let you both go."

"Oh, do try, dear sister Bessy!" cried Edward, hanging on her arm.

"Well, I suppose I must; and if my father consents I will join you on the beach with Edward
at six to-morrow morning."

"We shall wait for you, remember," said the sailor, "so come and let us know, at all events;
for time and tide tarry for no one," and so they parted.

Elizabeth, when she preferred her suit to her father that evening, met with a positive denial,
accompanied with a stern rebuke for her late return from her evening ramble. She retired to
her own chamber in tears, and cried herself to sleep. She dreamed of the forbidden pleasure;
and that she was seated in the gayly painted Queen Anne, at the helm by the side of her long-absent
sailor love, listening to his whispered endearments, as the boat glided rapidly toward the
scene of festive enjoyment, to which the merry pealing of bells seemed to invite her. At five
she was awakened by a light tap at her chamber door, from her little brother, who whispered,
"Oh, sister Bessy, it is such a lovely morning, let us go and see the boats push off for Dunwich
fair!"

"To what purpose?" cried the mortified girl, "the sight of them will only increase my vexation."

"Oh, but you promised to let Arthur and Margaret know; and they will take it unkindly if you
do not keep your word," said Edward.

Far wiser would it have been for the brother and sister if they had kept out of the way of
temptation; but mutually compounding with their consciences, that there could be no harm in
going to see the boat off, since they did not mean to sail with her crew, they left the paternal
roof together, and tripped hand-in-hand toward the spot where the Queen Anne, with her new
crimson pennon, lay in readiness for the launch, surrounded by a gayly-dressed group of females,
young and old, in their holiday attire, jovial seamen, and blithe young bachelors of the town,
among whom, but superior to them all, stood Arthur Blackbourne, in his sable fur cap with a
bullion cordon and tassels. His nautical dress differed little in fashion from that of the
rowers of the yawl, only that his doublet was of a smarter cut and finer material, and surmounted
with a full ruff of Flanders lace, a piece of foppery in which the handsome mate of the Jolly
Nicholas imitated the fashion of the court of James I., and was enabled, by his trading voyages
to Antwerp and Hamburgh, to indulge without any great extravagance. He had brought home half-a-dozen
yards of this costly adornment and a damasked gown for the vicar's fair daughter, and he communicated
the fact to her in a loving whisper, when, after springing half-way up the cliff at three bounds
to meet her, he had fondly encircled her waist with his arm, to aid her in the descent to the
beach. "And the damask is white damask," pursued he, "on purpose for your wedding gown; and
I have a pocket full of silver and gold besides, to treat you with any thing you may fancy
at Dunwich fair, my sweeting."

"Dear Arthur, it is of no use talking of it; father was very angry with me for asking his leave
to go, and so I can not go. I told you how it would be!" said Elizabeth, with mingled wrath
and sorrow in her tones.

The mate of the Jolly Nicholas looked troubled for a moment, and then said, "Never mind, my
darling girl, you shall go to Dunwich fair for all that, and so shall little Teddy."

"Oh, dear Arthur, I am so glad! Hurrah for Dunwich fair!" shouted the boy.

"Be quiet, foolish child, we can not go without my father's leave," said Elizabeth.

"Yes, yes, you can; it is but for once, and I will take all the blame upon myself," cried Arthur
Blackbourne.

"Goodness, Arthur! I never disobeyed my father in my life."

"Then you have been a very good girl, Bessy, and he can not reasonably rate you for a first
fault; and if he does--there is the white damask ready bought for the wedding gown, and I am
ready to take you for better or worse to-morrow," continued Arthur, drawing the half-resisting,
but more than half-willing girl, nearer and nearer to the boat at every word; while Teddy,
hanging on her arm, continued to wheedle and implore her to go.

"It is only for once, sister Bessy; only for once: father can't kill us if we do take this
one day's pastime. Oh, dear, oh, dear; I shall die if I don't go to Dunwich fair!"

"Arthur Blackbourne, we shall lose the tide if you stand palavering there," shouted half-a-dozen
of the crew of the Queen Anne.

"Arthur Blackbourne, you are to take charge of my niece, Joan Bates, if Bessy Younges doesn't
go with us," screamed the shrill voice of the widow Robson, one of the busiest bodies in the
busy borough corporate of Southwold two centuries ago.

"Oh gracious, aunt! you must not interfere between sweethearts;" expostulated Joan, with a
giggle of affected simplicity. "I am sure I don't wish to take Arthur Blackbourne from Mistress
Elizabeth Younges, if he prefers her company to mine, and it is her intention to go to Dunwich
fair with us; but I think she does not go to fairs. Parson Younges always preaches against
them, does not he, aunt?" said Joan.

"Why, to be sure he does," cried the widow Robson; "so of course his daughter can not be seen
at such a place."

Elizabeth turned pale with vexation at these observations, the drift of which she perfectly
understood. Margaret Blackbourne stepped back, and whispered in her ear, "All that is said
to keep you from going to Dunwich fair with Arthur."

"I shall not ask their leave if I choose to go," returned Elizabeth.

"Then pray make up your mind at once," said the widow Robson, "or we shall none go, I fancy,
as Arthur Blackbourne is the steersman of the Queen Anne."

"I am coming," cried Arthur, drawing Elizabeth toward the boat. All the female voyagers had
now scrambled in, save Joan Bates, who was exercising her coquettish skill in parrying the
advances of Bennet Allen, the town-clerk's brother, with the evident design of securing the
attentions of the handsome Arthur Blackbourne for the voyage.

Four stout seamen, aided by a bare-foot, ragged rout of auxiliaries, such as are always loitering
on Southwold beach in readiness to volunteer their services on such occasions, now began to
impel the boat through the breakers with the usual chorus of, "Yeo ho--steady--yeo ho!" and
Edward, following the example of some of the juvenile passengers, sprang into the boat with
the agility of a squirrel, and a wild cry of delight.

"Edward, Edward, you must not go," exclaimed his sister.

"Hurrah for Dunwich fair!" shouted the willful urchin, tossing up his cap.

"Arthur, help me!" cried Elizabeth.

"Ay, ay, by all means," rejoined the mate of the Jolly Nicholas, taking her about the waist,
and swinging her into the boat. The next moment he was seated by her side, and the Queen Anne
was gayly dashing through the waves. Her canvas was hoisted amidst bursts of mirth, and snatches
of nautical songs, and it was said that so gallant and fair a company and crew never before
left Southwold beach. Elizabeth Younges was perhaps the only one who looked back with boding
glances toward the town, and in so doing recognized her father's tall, bending figure on the
centre cliff, holding up his hand in an authoritative manner, as if to interdict her voyage.
It was her first act of willful disobedience, and her heart sank within her; and though she
had triumphed over her bold rival, by securing the company and attentions of Arthur Blackbourne
for the day, she felt more dejected than if she had been left alone on the beach. One black
cloud, the only one in the silver and azure sky, now floated across the horizon, and appeared
to hover darkly and ominously over her forsaken home, as the shores of Southwold receded in
the distance.

"Arthur," whispered she to her lover, "I do not like to go to Dunwich fair so entirely against
my father's prohibition. Do make the boat tack, and set the boy Edward and me ashore."

"Dear heart! it is folly to think of such a thing; we are opposite Dingle now."

"It will be only a pleasant walk back to Southwold for us."

"Very pleasant for you, perhaps; but recollect, there are twenty people besides yourself in
the boat, and I really do not see why they should be put to inconvenience for your whims."

"But, Arthur, you know you put me into the boat against my will."

"The more fool I," retorted the offended lover. Elizabeth made an angry rejoinder, but instead
of persisting in her purpose, she sat silent and sullen during the rest of the voyage. The
merry pealing of bells from the three churches then remaining in Dunwich, sounded a jocund
welcome over the waves--the old city was adorned with flags and green boughs in honor of her
chartered fair, and the tall cliffs were lined with gayly-dressed groups, rejoicing in their
holiday; but these things gave no pleasure to Elizabeth. The uproarious glee of her brother
Edward annoyed her, and finding Arthur appeared in no haste to offer her his arm, to assist
her in ascending the lofty cliffs of Dunwich, after they had landed, she took that of the reluctant
boy and walked proudly on, without deigning to direct a glance toward her lover.

"I wish you would walk with your own man, sister Bess," said Edward. "I want to have some fun
with the other boys."

"You are very unkind, Edward, to wish to desert me, when Arthur has treated me so ill. If it
had not been for your perversity in jumping into the boat, and refusing to leave it, I should
not have disobeyed my father by coming here," said Elizabeth.

"It is of no use thinking of that now," rejoined Edward; "as we are here, we had better enjoy
ourselves."

Elizabeth never felt so little in the humor for any thing of the kind called pleasure. The
want of sympathy, too, in her little brother, added to the bitterness of her feelings. She
directed a furtive glance toward the party behind, and perceived Arthur engaged in what in
these days would be called an active flirtation with her rival, Joan Bates: under these circumstances
she determined not to relinquish her brother's arm; but that perverse urchin, whom she had
so entirely loved and petted from his cradle, with the usual ingratitude of a spoiled child,
took the earliest opportunity of breaking from her, and joining a boisterous company of boys
of his own age. Bennet Allen then approached, and offered his arm to Elizabeth, with the mortifying
observation, "that as they both appeared to be forsaken and forlorn, the best thing they could
do would be to walk together."

The proud heart of Elizabeth was ready to burst at this remark, and had it been any where else,
she would have rejected the proffered attentions of young Allen with scorn; but she felt the
impropriety of walking alone in a fair, and silently accepted the arm of her rival's discarded
lover, and at the same time affected a gayety of manner she was far from feeling, in the hope
of piquing Arthur Blackbourne. Nothing is, however, so wearisome to both mind and body as an
outward show of mirth when the heart is sorrowful. Elizabeth Younges relapsed into long fits
of gloom and silence, and when addressed by her companion, made short and ungracious answers.

"What a disagreeable thing a fair is," said she, at last; "I no longer wonder at my father
saying it was not a suitable place for me--how I wish I were at home!"

But many weary hours of noise and pleasureless excitement had to be worn away, ere the party
with whom Elizabeth came to Dunwich would agree to return. Elizabeth's remonstrances, entreaties,
and anger were alike unheeded by the companions of her voyage. She had haughtily rejected every
overture on the part of Arthur toward a reconciliation, and declined to receive fairings or
attentions of any kind from him, to manifest her indignant sense of the slight she had experienced
from him in the early part of the day; and Arthur had retorted by paying his court very ostentatiously
to Joan Bates. Elizabeth, neglected and alone, strayed from her party, and sought a solitary
nook among the ivied ruins of a monastic pile, whose rifted arches overhung the verge of the
lofty cliff, where she indulged in floods of tears, casting from time to time her wistful glances
toward Southwold, whose verdant cliffs looked so calm and peaceful in the mellow lights of
a glowing sunset; but it was not till those cliffs were silvered by the rising moon that the
tide served for the return of the boats. At length, Elizabeth heard her name vociferated by
many individuals of her party, and felt sorely mortified at the publicity thus given to the
fact of her being at a forbidden place. Ashamed to raise her voice in reply, yet painfully
anxious to return to her deserted home, she hastened from her retreat among the ruins, and
ran eagerly toward the steep narrow path that led to the beach. On the way she encountered
Arthur Blackbourne, evidently the worse for his revels.

"Where have you been wandering about by yourself?" cried he, seizing her roughly by the arm.

"You have used me very ill to-day, Arthur," said she, bursting into tears.

"You are jealous and out of temper," was the reply.

"Where is my brother Edward?" sobbed Elizabeth, for she could not trust her voice with a rejoinder
to this taunt.

"In the boat, and if you do not make haste, we shall lose the tide."

"I have suffered enough for my disobedience to my father as it is," said Elizabeth; "and oh,
what will he say to me on my return from this disgraceful expedition!"

"There is no time to think of that now," rejoined Arthur, as they proceeded to the boat in
mutual displeasure with each other. Elizabeth perceived with alarm, that boatmen and passengers
alike were in the same state of inebriation which was only too evident in Arthur.

The beach was now a scene of tumultuous bustle; a crowd of boats were putting off for Southwold,
Walberswick, and all the other places along the coast for which the wind and tide served.

"Young woman," said an experienced Dunwich mariner who had been regarding Elizabeth with much
interest, "which boat are you going in."

"The Queen Anne of Southwold," was the reply.

"Take an old man's counsel and go not in her to-night. She is too full of riotous head strong
people, and those who ought to be the most cool and considerate there are the worst."

"Oh, but I must go; I dare not remain longer, for I came without my father's leave."

"So much the worse, young girl, for you; no good can come of such doings," said the ancient
mariner.

"Oh, if I but reach my home in safety, I will never, never so transgress again!" sobbed Elizabeth
as she took her seat among the reckless crew of the Queen Anne, and rested her aching head
against the dewy canvas which was now unfurled to the gay breeze that came dancing over the
summer waves.

It was a night of intense beauty, and the contemplation of the starry heavens above, with that
glorious moon shining in such cloudless splendor over the mighty expanse of heaving blue waters,
might have drawn the minds of the midnight voyagers to far different themes than those which
were so clamorously discussed by them as they glided through the murmuring waves. The Queen
Anne had shot ahead of the swarm of sailing boats with which she left Dunwich strand, and her
thoughtless crew, with wild excitement, continued to accelerate her perilous speed by hoisting
a press of canvas as they neared the shores of Southwold.

A dispute now occurred among them, whether they should land at the haven or opposite the town.
None of the parties were in a state to form a very correct judgment as to which would be the
best and safest point to bring the boat to shore. The importunities of Joan Bates and others
of the female passengers, who had suffered severely from sea-sickness during the homeward voyage,
prevailed on Arthur Blackbourne and a majority of the party to attempt a landing at the haven,
and four of the boatmen scrambling through the surf proceeded to fix their rope and grapples,
to bring the boat to shore. They were resisted by such of the men as were for landing opposite
the town, and with reason, for the tide was rushing with great force into the river Blythe.
Arthur Blackbourne had seized one of the oars to assist in effecting a landing on that perilous
spot. Elizabeth Younges, who perceived a cable lying athwart the haven, started up in an agony
of terror, caught him by the arm, and entreated him to desist. Arthur, attributing her opposition
to angry excitement of temper, rudely shook off her hold and exerted a double portion of energy
to accomplish his object, and just at the fatal moment when the men carelessly let go the rope,
impelled the boat into immediate contact with the obstacle of which Elizabeth was about to
warn him. The next instant all were struggling with the roaring tide. The slumbering village
of Walberswick was startled with the death-shrieks of that devoted company. The anxious watchers
on Southwold cliff, the parents, relatives, and friends of the hapless voyagers, echoed back
their cries in hopeless despair. Then there was the impulsive rush of men, women, and children
toward the spot where they had seen the boat capsized. In less than ten minutes the swift-footed
neared it, but ere then, the dread gulf which divides time from eternity had already been passed
by each and all, save one, of those who sailed so gayly from the town that morn. Lovers and
rivals, passengers and crew, were united in a watery grave. The solitary survivor was Arthur
Blackbourne.

The register of Southwold for the year 1616 contains the record of this tragedy of domestic
life, penned with mournful minuteness by the faithful hand of the bereaved parent of two of
the victims, Christopherus Younges, the Vicar of Southwold: we copy it verbatim from the tear-stained
page.

"The names of those who were drowned and found again. They were drowned in the haven coming
from Donwich fayer, on St. James's day in a bote, by reason of one cable lying overwharf the
haven, for by reason the men that brought them down was so negligent, that when they were redie
to come ashore the bote broke lose, and so the force of the tide carried the bote against the
cable and so overwhelmed. The number of them were xxii, but they were not all found. The widow
Robson, Johne Bates, Mary Yewell, Susan Frost, Margaret Blackbourne and the widow Taylor, were
all buried on the 26th day of July, being all cast away, coming from Donwick fayer, on St.
James's daye.

"Widow Poster was buried the 27th day of Julye. Bennett Allen was buried the 30th daie, Goodie
Kerrison same daie. Edward and Elizabeth Younges, daughter and son to me, C. Younges, vicar
and minister, was buried the 31st Dae of Julie.

"All these were found again in this towne and buried."--Southwold Register A. D. 1616.

ANECDOTES OF NAPOLEON.

BY THE LATE LORD HOLLAND.[27]

HIS EARLY PURSUITS.

Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in 1769. It was affirmed by many that he was at least a year older,
and concealed his real age from an unwillingness to acknowledge his birth in Corsica, at a
period when that island formed no part of the French dominions. The story is an idle one. A
yet more idle one was circulated that he had been baptized by the name of Nicholas, but from
apprehension of ridicule converted it, when he rose to celebrity, into Napoleon. The printed
exercises of the military school of Brienne, of the years 1780, 1781, 1783, preserved in the
Bibliothèque at Paris, represent him as proficient in history, algebra, geography, and dancing,
under the name of Buona-Parte de l'Isle de Corse; sometimes d'Ajaccio en Corse. Many traits
of his aspiring and ambitious character, even in early youth, have been related, and Pozzo
di Borgo quoted (1826) a conversation with him when 18 years of age, in which, after inquiring
and learning the state of Italy, he exclaimed, "Then I have not been deceived, and with two
thousand soldiers a man might make himself king (Principe) of that country." The ascendency
he acquired over his family and companions, long before his great talents had emerged from
obscurity, were formerly described to me by Cardinal Fesch and Louis Bonaparte, and have been
confirmed since by the uniform testimony of such as knew him during his residence in Corsica,
or before his acquaintance with Barras, the Director. When at home he was extremely studious,
ardent in some pursuit, either literary or scientific, which he communicated to no one. At
his meals, which he devoured rapidly, he was silent, and apparently absorbed in his own thoughts.
Yet he was generally consulted on all questions affecting the interests of any branch of his
family, and on all such occasions was attentive, friendly, decisive, and judicious. He wrote
at a very early period of his life, a History of Corsica, and sent the manuscript to the Abbé
Raynal, with a flourishing letter, soliciting the honor of his acquaintance, and requesting
his opinion of the work. The abbé acknowledged the letter, and praised the performance, but
Napoleon never printed it. Persons who have dined with him at taverns and coffee-houses when
it was convenient to him not to pay his reckoning, have assured me, that though the youngest
and poorest, he always obtained, without exacting it, a sort of deference or even submission
from the rest of the company. Though never parsimonious, he was at that period of his life
extremely attentive to the details of expense, the price of provisions, and of other necessary
articles, and, in short, to every branch of domestic economy. The knowledge thus early acquired
in such matters, was useful to him in a more exalted station. He cultivated and even made a
parade of his information in subsequent periods of his career, and thus sometimes detected
and frequently prevented embezzlement in the administration of public accounts.

HIS ATTENTION TO DETAILS.

Nothing could exceed the order and regularity with which his household both as consul and emperor
was conducted. The great things he accomplished, and the savings he made, without even the
imputation of avarice or meanness, with the sum comparatively inconsiderable of fifteen millions
of francs a year, are marvelous, and expose his successors, and indeed all European princes
to the reproach of negligence or incapacity. In this branch of his government, he owed much
to Duroc. It is said, that they often visited the markets of Paris (les halles) dressed in
plain clothes and early in the morning. When any great accounts were to be submitted to the
emperor, Duroc would apprise him in secret of some of the minutest details. By an adroit allusion
to them or a careless remark on the points upon which he had received such recent and accurate
information, Napoleon contrived to impress his audience with a notion that the master's eye
was every where. For instance, when the Tuilleries were furnished, the upholsterer's charges,
though not very exorbitant, were suspected by the emperor to be higher than the usual profit
of that trade would have warranted. He suddenly asked some minister, who was with him, how
much the egg at the end of the bell-rope should cost? "J'ignore," was the answer. "Eh bien!
nous verrons," said he, and then cut off the ivory handle, called for a valet, and bidding
him dress himself in plain and ordinary clothes, and neither divulge his immediate commission
or general employment to any living soul, directed him to inquire the price of such articles
at several shops in Paris, and to order a dozen as for himself. They were one-third less dear
than those furnished to the palace. The emperor, inferring that the same advantage had been
taken in the other articles, struck a third off the whole charge, and directed the tradesman
to be informed that it was done at his express command, because on inspection, he had himself
discovered the charges to be by one-third too exorbitant. When afterward, in the height of
his glory, he visited Caen, with the Empress Maria Louisa, and a train of crowned heads and
princes, his old friend, M. Mechin, the Prefect, aware of his taste for detail, waited upon
him with five statistical tables of the expenditure, revenue, prices, produce, and commerce
of the department. "C'est bon," said he, when he received them the evening of his arrival,
"vous et moi nous ferons bien de l'esprit sur tout cela demain au Conseil." Accordingly, he
astonished all the leading proprietors of the department at the meeting next day, by his minute
knowledge of the prices of good and bad cider, and of the produce and other circumstances of
the various districts of the department. Even the royalist gentry were impressed with a respect
for his person, which gratitude for the restitution of their lands had failed to inspire, and
which, it must be acknowledged, the first, faint hope of vengeance against their enemies entirely
obliterated in almost every member of that intolerant faction.

Other princes have shown an equal fondness for minute details with Napoleon, but here is the
difference. The use they made of their knowledge was to torment their inferiors and weary their
company: the purpose to which Napoleon applied it was to confine the expenses of the state
to the objects and interests of the community.

NAPOLEON'S POWERS OF MEMORY.

His powers of application and memory seemed almost preternatural. There was scarcely a man
in France, and none in employment, with whose private history, characters, and qualifications,
he was not acquainted. He had, when emperor, notes and tables, which he called the moral statistics
of his empire. He revised and corrected them by ministerial reports, private conversation,
and correspondence. He received all letters himself, and what seems incredible, he read and
recollected all that he received. He slept little, and was never idle one instant when awake.
When he had an hour for diversion, he not unfrequently employed it in looking over a book of
logarithms, which he acknowledged, with some surprise, was at all seasons of his life a recreation
to him. So retentive was his memory of numbers, that sums over which he had once glanced his
eye were in his mind ever after. He recollected the respective produce of all taxes through
every year of his administration, and could, at any time, repeat any one of them, even to the
centimes. Thus his detection of errors in accounts appeared marvelous, and he often indulged
in the pardonable artifice of displaying these faculties in a way to create a persuasion that
his vigilance was almost supernatural. In running over an account of expenditure, he perceived
the rations of a battalion charged on a certain day at Besançon. "Mais le bataillon n'était
pas là," said he, "il y a erreur." The minister, recollecting that the emperor had been at
the time out of France, and confiding in the regularity of his subordinate agents, persisted
that the battalion must have been at Besançon. Napoleon insisted on further inquiry. It turned
out to be a fraud and not a mistake. The peculating accountant was dismissed, and the scrutinizing
spirit of the emperor circulated with the anecdote through every branch of the public service,
in a way to deter every clerk from committing the slightest error, from fear of immediate detection.
His knowledge, in other matters, was often as accurate and nearly as surprising. Not only were
the Swiss deputies in 1801 astonished at his familiar acquaintance with the history, laws,
and usages of their country, which seemed the result of a life of research, but even the envoys
from the insignificant Republic of San Marino, were astonished at finding that he knew the
families and feuds of that small community, and discoursed on the respective views, conditions,
and interests of parties and individuals, as if he had been educated in the petty squabbles
and local politics of that diminutive society. I remember a simple native of that place told
me in 1814 that the phenomenon was accounted for by the Saint of the town appearing to him
over-night, in order to assist his deliberations.

HIS KNOWLEDGE OF NAVAL AFFAIRS.

Some anecdotes related to me by the distinguished officer who conveyed him in the Undaunted
to Elba, in 1814, prove the extent, variety, and accuracy of knowledge of Napoleon. On his
first arrival on the coast, in company with Sir Neil Campbell, an Austrian and a Russian commissioner,
Captain Usher waited upon him, and was invited to dinner. He conversed much on naval affairs,
and explained the plan he had once conceived of forming a vast fleet of 160 ships-of-the-line.
He asked Captain Usher if he did not think it would have been practicable; and Usher answered,
that with the immense means he then commanded, he saw no impossibility in building and manning
any number of ships, but his difficulty would have consisted in forming thorough seamen as
distinguished from what we call smooth-water sailors. Napoleon replied that he had provided
for that also; he had organized exercises for them afloat, not only in harbor, but in smaller
vessels near the coast, by which they might have been trained to go through, even in rough
weather, the most arduous manoeuvres of seamanship, which he enumerated; and he mentioned among
them the keeping a ship clear of her anchors in a heavy sea. The Austrian, who suspected Napoleon
of talking in general upon subjects he imperfectly understood, acknowledging his own ignorance,
asked him the meaning of the term, the nature of the difficulty, and the method of surmounting
it. On this the emperor took up two forks, and explained the problem in seamanship, which is
not an easy one, in so short, scientific, and practical a way, that Captain Usher assured me
he knew none but professional men, and very few of them, who could off-hand have given so perspicuous,
seamanlike, and satisfactory solution of the question. Any board of officers would have inferred,
from such an exposition, that the person making it had received a naval education, and was
a practical seaman. Yet how different were the objects on which the mind of Napoleon must have
been long, as well as recently, employed!

On the same voyage, when the propriety of putting into a harbor of Corsica was under discussion,
and the want of a pilot urged as an objection, Napoleon described the depth of water, shoals,
currents, bearings, and anchorage, with a minuteness which seemed as if he had himself acted
in that capacity; and which, on reference to the charts, was found scrupulously accurate. When
his cavalry and baggage arrived at Porto Ferrajo, the commander of the transports said that
he had been on the point of putting into a creek near Genoa (which he named, but I have forgotten);
upon hearing which Napoleon exclaimed, "It is well you did not; it is the worst place in the
Mediterranean; you would not have got to sea again for a month or six weeks." He then proceeded
to allege reasons for the difficulty, which were quite sufficient if the peculiarities of the
little bay were really such as he described; but Captain Usher, having never heard of them
during his service in the Mediterranean, suspected that the emperor was mistaken, or had confounded
some report he had heard from mariners in his youth. When, however, he mentioned the circumstance
many years afterward to Captain Dundas, who had recently cruised in the Gulf of Genoa, that
officer confirmed the report of Napoleon in all its particulars, and expressed astonishment
at its correctness. "For" (said he), "I thought it a discovery of my own, having ascertained
all you have just told me about that creek, by observation and experience."

HIS INDUSTRY AND CURIOSITY.

Great as was his appetite for knowledge, his memory in retaining, and his quickness in applying
it; his labor both in acquiring and using it was equal to them. In application to business
he could wear out the men most inured to study. In the deliberations on the Code Civil, many
of which lasted ten, twelve, or fifteen hours without intermission, he was always the last
whose attention flagged; and he was so little disposed to spare himself trouble, that even
in the Moscow campaign he sent regularly to every branch of administration in Paris directions
in detail, which in every government but his would, both from usage and convenience, have been
left to the discretion of the superintending minister, or to the common routine of business.
This and other instances of his diligence are more wonderful than praiseworthy. He had established
an office with twelve clerks, and Mounier at their head, whose sole duty it was to extract,
translate, abridge, and arrange under heads the contents of our English newspapers. He charged
Mounier to omit no abuse of him, however coarse or virulent; no charge, however injurious or
malignant. As, however, he did not specify the empress, Mounier, who reluctantly complied with
his orders, ventured to suppress, or, at least, to soften any phrases about her; but Napoleon
questioned others on the contents of the English papers; detected Mounier and his committee
in their mutilations of the articles, and forbade them to withhold any intelligence or any
censure they met with in the publications which they were appointed to examine. Yet with all
this industry, and with the multiplicity of topics which engaged his attention, he found time
for private and various reading. His librarian was employed for some time every morning in
replacing maps and books which his unwearied and insatiable curiosity had consulted before
breakfast. He read all letters whatever addressed to himself, whether in his private or public
capacity; and it must, I believe, be acknowledged, that he often took the same liberty with
those directed to other people. He had indulged in that unjustifiable practice[28] before his
elevation, and such was his impatience to open both parcels and letters, that, however employed,
he could seldom defer the gratification of his curiosity an instant after either came under
his notice or his reach. Josephine, and others, well acquainted with his habits, very pardonably
took some advantage of this propensity. Matters which she feared to mention to him were written
and directed to her, and the letters unopened left in his way. He often complied with wishes
which he thought he had detected by an artifice, more readily than had they been presented
in the form of claim, petition, or request. He liked to know every thing; but he liked all
he did to have the appearance of springing entirely from himself, feeling, like many others
in power, an unwillingness to encourage even those they love in an opinion that they have an
influence over them, or that there is any certain channel to their favor. His childish eagerness
about cases led, in one instance, to a gracious act of playful munificence. He received notice
of the arrival of a present from Constantinople, in society with the empress and other ladies.
He ordered the parcel[29] to be brought up, and instantly tore it open with his own hand. It
contained a large aigrette of diamonds which he broke into various pieces, and he then threw
the largest into her imperial majesty's lap, and some into that of every lady in the circle.

HIS LITERARY TASTE AND ACQUIREMENTS.

Among his projects were many connected with the arts and with literature. They were all, perhaps,
subservient to political purposes, generally gigantic, abruptly prepared, and, in all likelihood,
as suddenly conceived. Many were topics of conversation and subjects for speculation, not serious,
practical, or digested designs. Though not insensible to the arts or to literature, he was
suspected latterly of considering them rather as political engines or embellishments, than
as sources of enjoyment. M. de Talleyrand, and several artists concurred in saying, that "il
avait le sentiment du grand, mais non pas celui du beau." He had written "bon sujet d'un tableau,"
opposite to some passage in Letourneur's translation of Ossian, and he had certainly a passion
for that poem.

His censure on David, for choosing the battle at the straits of Thermopylæ as a subject for
a picture, was that of a general rather than connoisseur: it smelt, if I may say so, of his
shop; though, perhaps, the real motive for it was dislike to the republican artist, and distaste
to an act of national resistance against a great military invader. "A bad subject," said he
"after all, Leonidas was turned." He had the littleness to expect to be prominent in every
picture of national victories of his time, and was displeased at a painting of an action in
Egypt for Madame Murat, in which her wounded husband was the principal figure. Power made him
impatient of contradiction,[30] even in trifles; and, latterly, he did not like his taste in
music, for which he had no turn, to be disputed. His proficiency in literature has been variously
stated. He had read much, but had written little. In the mechanical part he was certainly no
adept; his handwriting was nearly illegible. Some would fain persuade me that that fault was
intentional, and merely an artifice to conceal his bad spelling; that he could form his letters
well if he chose, but was unwilling to let his readers know too exactly the use he made of
them. His orthography was certainly not correct; that of few Frenchmen, not professed authors,
was so thirty years ago: but his brothers Lucien and Louis, both literary men, and both correct
in their orthography, write a similar hand, and nearly as bad a one as he did, probably for
the same reason; viz., that they can not write a better one without great pains and loss of time.

Napoleon, when consul and emperor, seldom wrote, but he dictated much. It was difficult to
follow him, and he often objected to any revision of what he had dictated.

HIS RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS.

Whatever were the religious sentiments of this extraordinary man, such companions were likely
neither to fix nor to shake, to sway nor to alter them. I have been at some pains to ascertain
the little that can be known of his thoughts on such subjects; and though it is not very satisfactory,
it appears to me worth recording.

In the early periods of the revolution, he, in common with many of his countrymen, conformed
to the fashion of treating all such matters, both in conversation and action, with levity and
even derision. In his subsequent career, like most men exposed to wonderful vicissitudes, he
professed half in jest and half in earnest a sort of confidence in fatalism and predestination.
But on some solemn public occasions, and yet more in private and sober discussion, he not only
gravely disclaimed and reproved infidelity, but both by actions and words implied his conviction
that a conversion to religious enthusiasm might befall himself or any other man. He had more
than tolerance--he had indulgence and respect for extravagant and ascetic notions of religious
duty. He grounded that feeling, not on their soundness or their truth, but on the uncertainty
of what our minds may be reserved for, on the possibility of our being prevailed upon to admit
and even to devote ourselves to tenets which at first excite our derision. It has been observed
that there was a tincture of Italian superstition in his character, a sort of conviction from
reason that the doctrines of revelation were not true, and yet a persuasion, or at least an
apprehension that he might live to think them so. He was satisfied that the seeds of belief
were deeply sown in the human heart. It was on that principle that he permitted and justified,
though he did not dare to authorize the revival of La Trappe and other austere orders. He contended
that they might operate as a safety-valve for the fanatical and visionary ferment which would
otherwise burst forth and disturb society. In his remarks on the death of Duroc and in the
reasons he alleged against suicide, both in calm and speculative discussion and in moments
of strong emotion (such as occurred at Fontainbleau in 1814), he implied a belief both in fatality
and providence.

In the programme of his coronation, a part of the ceremony was to consist in his taking the
communion. But when the plan was submitted to him, he, to the surprise of those who had drawn
it, was absolutely indignant at the suggestion. "No man," he said, "had the means of knowing,
or had the right to say, when or where he would take the Sacrament, or whether he would or
not." On this occasion, he added that he would not,[31] nor did he!

There is some mystery about his conduct in similar respects at St. Helena, and during the last
days of his life. He certainly had mass celebrated in his chapel while he was well, and in
his bedroom when ill. But though I have reason to believe that the last Sacraments were actually
administered to him privately, a few days before his death, and probably after confession,
yet Count Montholon, from whom I derive indirectly my information, also stated that he received
Napoleon's earliest and distinct directions to conceal all the preliminary preparations for
that melancholy ceremony from all his other companions, and even to enjoin the priest, if questioned,
to say he acted by Count Montholon's orders, but had no knowledge of the Emperor's wishes.

It seems as if he had some desire for such assurance as the church could give, but yet was
ashamed to own it. He knew that some at St. Helena, and more in France, would deem his recourse
to such consolation, infirmity; perhaps he deemed it so himself. Religion may sing her triumph,
Philosophy exclaim, "pauvre humanité," more impartial skepticism despair of discovering the
motive, but truth and history must, I believe, acknowledge the fact. M. de Talleyrand, who,
on hearing of his death, spoke of his mental endowments, added the following remarks:

"His career is the most extraordinary that has occurred for one thousand years. He committed
three capital faults, and to them his fall, scarce less extraordinary than his elevation, is
to be ascribed--Spain, Russia, and the Pope. I say the Pope; for his coronation, the acknowledgment
by the spiritual head of Christendom that he, a little lieutenant of Corsica, was the chief
sovereign of Europe, from whatever motive it proceeded, was the most striking consummation
of glory that could happen to an individual. After adopting that mode of displaying his greatness
and crowning his achievements, he should never, for objects comparatively insignificant, have
stooped to vex and persecute the same Pontiff. He thereby outraged the feelings of the very
persons whose enmity had been softened, and whose imagination had been dazzled by that brilliant
event. Such were his capital errors. Those three apart, he committed few others in policy,
wonderfully few, considering the multiplicity of interests he had to manage, and the extent,
importance, and rapidity of the events in which he was engaged. He was certainly a great, an
extraordinary man, nearly as extraordinary in his qualities as in his career; at least, so
upon reflection I, who have seen him near and much, am disposed to consider him. He was clearly
the most extraordinary man I ever saw, and I believe the most extraordinary man that has lived
in our age, or for many ages."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 27: From a volume of Foreign Reminiscences, by Henry Richard Lord Holland, edited
by his son, Henry Edward Lord Holland,--in the press of Messrs. Harper and Brothers, and soon
to be published.]

[Footnote 28: Denon, Mechin, and others.]

[Footnote 29: Mechin.]

[Footnote 30: He was not so, however, either in deliberation or discussion, at least when the
matter was invited by himself. He allowed his ministers to comment upon, and even to object
to measures in contemplation (provided they acquiesced in them when adopted) in free and even
strong terms, and he liked those he questioned on facts or opinions to answer without compliment
or reserve.]

[Footnote 31: Some attributed this repugnance to conform, to his fear of the army, others to
a secret and conscientious aversion to what he deemed in his heart a profanation.]

A CRISIS IN THE AFFAIRS OF MR. JOHN BULL.

AS RELATED BY MRS. BULL TO THE CHILDREN

Mrs. Bull and her rising family were seated round the fire, one November evening at dusk, when
all was mud, mist, and darkness, out of doors, and a good deal of fog had even got into the
family parlor. To say the truth, the parlor was on no occasion fog-proof, and had, at divers
notable times, been so misty as to cause the whole Bull family to grope about, in a most confused
manner, and make the strangest mistakes. But, there was an excellent ventilator over the family
fire-place (not one of Dr. Arnott's, though it was of the same class, being an excellent invention,
called Common Sense), and hence, though the fog was apt to get into the parlor through a variety
of chinks, it soon got out again, and left the Bulls at liberty to see what o'clock it was,
by the solid, steady-going, family time-piece: which went remarkably well in the long run,
though it was apt, at times, to be a trifle too slow.

Mr. Bull was dozing in his easy chair, with his pocket-handkerchief drawn over his head. Mrs.
Bull, always industrious, was hard at work, knitting. The children were grouped in various
attitudes around the blazing fire. Master C. J. London (called after his God-father), who had
been rather late at his exercise, sat with his chin resting, in something of a thoughtful and
penitential manner, on his slate resting on his knees. Young Jonathan--a cousin of the little
Bulls, and a noisy, overgrown lad--was making a tremendous uproar across the yard, with a new
plaything. Occasionally, when his noise reached the ears of Mr. Bull, the good gentleman moved
impatiently in his chair, and muttered "Con--found that boy in the stripes, I wish he wouldn't
make such a fool of himself!"

"He'll quarrel with his new toy soon, I know," observed the discreet Mrs. Bull, "and then he'll
begin to knock it about. But we mustn't expect to find old heads on young shoulders."

"That can't be, ma," said Master C. J. London, who was a sleek, shining-faced boy.

"And why, then, did you expect to find an old head on Young England's shoulders?" retorted
Mrs. Bull, turning quickly on him.

"I didn't expect to find an old head on Young England's shoulders!" cried Master C. J. London,
putting his left-hand knuckles to his right eye.

"You didn't expect it, you naughty boy?" said Mrs. Bull.

"No!" whimpered Master C. J. London, "I am sure I never did. Oh, oh, oh!"

"Don't go on in that way, don't!" said Mrs. Bull, "but behave better in future. What did you
mean by playing with Young England at all?"

"I didn't mean any harm!" cried Master C. J. London, applying, in his increased distress, the
knuckles of his right hand to his right eye, and the knuckles of his left hand to his left eye.

"I dare say you didn't!" returned Mrs. Bull. "Hadn't you had warning enough, about playing
with candles and candlesticks? How often had you been told that your poor father's house, long
before you were born, was in danger of being reduced to ashes by candles and candlesticks?
And when Young England and his companions began to put their shirts on, over their clothes,
and to play all sorts of fantastic tricks in them, why didn't you come and tell your poor father
and me, like a dutiful C. J. London?"

"Because the Rubric--" Master C. J. London was beginning, when Mrs. Bull took him up short.

"Don't talk to me about the Rubric, or you'll make it worse!" said Mrs. Bull, shaking her head
at him. "Just exactly what the Rubric meant then, it means now; and just exactly what it didn't
mean then, it don't mean now. You are taught to act, according to the spirit, not the letter;
and you know what its spirit must be, or you wouldn't be. No, C. J. London!" said Mrs. Bull,
emphatically. "If there were any candles or candlesticks in the spirit of your lesson-book,
Master Wiseman would have been my boy, and not you!"

Here, Master C. J. London fell a-crying more grievously than before, sobbing, "Oh, ma! Master
Wiseman with his red legs, your boy! Oh, oh, oh!"

"Will you be quiet," returned Mrs. Bull, "and let your poor father rest? I am ashamed of you.
You to go and play with a parcel of sentimental girls, and dandy boys! Is that your bringing up?"

"I didn't know they were fond of Master Wiseman," protested Master C. J. London, still crying.

"You didn't know, sir!" retorted Mrs. Bull "Don't tell me! Then you ought to have known. Other
people knew. You were told often enough, at the time, what it would come to. You didn't want
a ghost, I suppose, to warn you that when they got to candlesticks, they'd get to candles;
and that when they got to candles, they'd get to lighting 'em; and that when they began to
put their shirts on outside, and to play at monks and friars, it was as natural that Master
Wiseman should be encouraged to put on a pair of red-stockings, and a red hat, and to commit
I don't know what other Tom-fooleries and make a perfect Guy Fawkes of himself in more ways
than one. Is it because you are a Bull, that you are not to be roused till they shake scarlet
close to your very eyes?" said Mrs. Bull indignantly.

Master C. J. London still repeating "Oh, oh, oh!" in a very plaintive manner, screwed his knuckles
into his eyes until there appeared considerable danger of his screwing his eyes out of his
head. But, little John (who though of a spare figure was a very spirited boy), started up from
the little bench on which he sat; gave Master C. J. London a hearty pat on the back (accompanied,
however, with a slight poke in the ribs); and told him that if Master Wiseman, or Young England,
or any of those fellows, wanted any thing for himself, he (little John) was the boy to give
it him. Hereupon, Mrs. Bull, who was always proud of the child, and always had been, since
his measure was first taken for an entirely new suit of clothes to wear in Commons, could not
refrain from catching him up on her knee and kissing him with great affection, while the whole
family expressed their delight in various significant ways.

"You are a noble boy, little John," said Mrs. Bull, with a mother's pride, "and that's the
fact, after every thing is said and done!"

"I don't know about that, ma;" quoth little John, whose blood was evidently up; "but if these
chaps and their backers, the Bulls of Rome--"

Here Mr. Bull, who was only half asleep, kicked out in such an alarming manner, that for some
seconds, his boots gyrated fitfully all over the family hearth, filling the whole circle with
consternation. For, when Mr Bull did kick, his kick was tremendous. And he always kicked, when
the Bulls of Rome were mentioned.

Mrs. Bull holding up her finger as an injunction to the children to keep quiet, sagely observed
Mr. Bull from the opposite side of the fire-place, until he calmly dozed again, when she recalled
the scattered family to their former positions, and spoke in a low tone.

"You must be very careful," said the worthy lady, "how you mention that name; for, your poor
father has so many unpleasant experiences of those Bulls of Rome--Bless the man! he'll do somebody
a mischief."

Mr. Bull, lashing out again more violently than before, upset the fender, knocked down the
fire-irons, kicked over the brass footman, and, whisking his silk handkerchief off his head,
chased the Pussy on the rug clean out of the room into the passage, and so out of the street-door
into the night; the Pussy having (as was well known to the children in general), originally
strayed from the Bulls of Rome into Mr. Bull's assembled family. After the achievement of this
crowning feat, Mr. Bull came back, and in a highly excited state performed a sort of war-dance
in his top-boots, all over the parlor. Finally, he sank into his arm-chair, and covered himself
up again.

Master C. J. London, who was by no means sure that Mr. Bull in his heat would not come down
upon him for the lateness of his exercise, took refuge behind his slate and behind little John,
who was a perfect game-cock. But, Mr. Bull having concluded his war-dance without injury to
any one, the boy crept out, with the rest of the family, to the knees of Mrs. Bull, who thus
addressed them, taking little John into her lap before she began:

"The B.'s of R.," said Mrs. Bull, getting, by this prudent device, over the obnoxious words,
"caused your poor father a world of trouble, before any one of you were born. They pretended
to be related to us, and to have some influence in our family; but it can't be allowed for
a single moment--nothing will ever induce your poor father to hear of it; let them disguise
or constrain themselves now and then, as they will, they are, by nature, an insolent, audacious,
oppressive, intolerable race."

Here little John doubled his fists, and began squaring at the Bulls of Rome, as he saw those
pretenders with his mind's eye. Master C. J. London, after some considerable reflection, made
a show of squaring, likewise.

"In the days of your great, great, great, great, grandfather," said Mrs. Bull, dropping her
voice still lower, as she glanced at Mr. Bull in his repose, "the Bulls of Rome were not so
utterly hateful to our family as they are at present. We didn't know them so well, and our
family were very ignorant and low in the world. But, we have gone on advancing in every generation
since then; and now we are taught, by all our family history and experience, and by the most
limited exercise of our rational faculties, that our knowledge, liberty, progress, social welfare
and happiness are wholly irreconcilable and inconsistent with them. That the Bulls of Rome
are not only the enemies of our family, but of the whole human race. That wherever they go,
they perpetuate misery, oppression, darkness, and ignorance. That they are easily made the
tools of the worst of men for the worst of purposes; and that they can not be endured by your
poor father, or by any man, woman, or child, of common sense, who has the least connection
with us."

Little John, who had gradually left off squaring, looked hard at his aunt, Miss Eringobragh,
Mr. Bull's sister, who was groveling on the ground, with her head in the ashes. This unfortunate
lady had been, for a length of time, in a horrible condition of mind and body, and presented
a most lamentable spectacle of disease, dirt, rags, superstition, and degradation.

Mrs. Bull, observing the direction of the child's glance, smoothed little John's hair, and
directed her next observations to him.

"Ah! You may well look at the poor thing, John!" said Mrs. Bull; "for the Bulls of Rome have
had far too much to do with her present state. There have been many other causes at work to
destroy the strength of her constitution, but the Bulls of Rome have been at the bottom of
it; and, depend upon it, wherever you see a condition at all resembling hers, you will find,
on inquiry, that the sufferer has allowed herself to be dealt with by the Bulls of Rome. The
cases of squalor and ignorance, in all the world most like your aunt's, are to be found in
their own household; on the steps of their doors; in the heart of their homes. In Switzerland,
you may cross a line no broader than a bridge or a hedge, and know, in an instant, where the
Bulls of Rome have been received, by the condition of the family. Wherever the Bulls of Rome
have the most influence, the family is sure to be the most abject. Put your trust in those
Bulls, John, and it's the inevitable order and sequence of things, that you must come to be
something like your aunt, sooner or later."

"I thought the Bulls of Rome had got into difficulties and run away, ma?" said little John,
looking up into his mother's face inquiringly.

"Why, so they did get into difficulties, to be sure, John," returned Mrs. Bull, "and so they
did run away, but, even the Italians, who had got thoroughly used to them, found them out,
and they were obliged to go and hide in a cupboard, where they still talked big through the
key-hole, and presented one of the most contemptible and ridiculous exhibitions that ever were
seen on earth. However, they were taken out of the cupboard by some friends of theirs--friends,
indeed! who care as much about them as I do for the sea-serpent; but who happened, at the moment,
to find it necessary to play at soldiers, to amuse their fretful children, who didn't know
what they wanted, and, what was worse, would have it--and so the Bulls got back to Rome. And
at Rome they are any thing but safe to stay, as you'll find, my dear, one of these odd mornings."

"Then, if they are so unsafe, and so found out, ma," said Master C. J. London, "how come they
to interfere with us, now?"

"Oh, C. J. London!" returned Mrs. Bull, "what a sleepy child you must be to put such a question!
Don't you know that the more they are found out, and the weaker they are, the more important
it must be to them to impose upon the ignorant people near them, by pretending to be closely
connected with a person so much looked up to as your poor father?"

"Why, of course!" cried little John to his brother. "Oh, you stupid!"

"And I am ashamed to have to repeat, C. J. London," said Mrs. Bull, "that, but for your friend,
Young England, and the encouragement you gave to that mewling little Pussy, when it strayed
here--don't say you didn't, you naughty boy, for you did!"

"You know you did!" said little John.

Master C. J. London began to cry again.

"Don't do that," said Mrs. Bull, sharply, "but be a better boy in future! I say, I am ashamed
to have to repeat, that, but for that, the Bulls of Rome would never have had the audacity
to call their connection, Master Wiseman, your poor father's child, and to appoint him, with
his red hat and stockings, and his mummery and flummery, to a portion of your father's estates--though,
for the matter of that, there is nothing to prevent their appointing him to the Moon, except
the difficulty of getting him there! And so, your poor father's affairs have been brought to
this crisis: that he has to deal with an insult which is perfectly absurd, and yet which he
must, for the sake of his family in all time to come, decisively and seriously deal with, in
order to detach himself, once and forever, from those Bulls of Rome; and show how impotent
they are. There's difficulty and vexation, you have helped to bring upon your father, you bad
child!"

"Oh, oh, oh!" cried Master C. J. London. "Oh, I never went to do it. Oh, oh, oh!"

"Hold your tongue!" said Mrs. Bull, "and do a good exercise! Now that your father has turned
that Pussy out of doors, go on with your exercise, like a man; and let us have no more playing
with any one connected with those Bulls of Rome; between whom and you there is a great gulf
fixed, as you ought to have known in the beginning. Take your fingers out of your eyes, sir,
and do your exercise!"

"Or I'll come and pinch you!" said little John.

"John," said Mrs. Bull, "you leave him alone. Keep your eye upon him, and, if you find him
relapsing, tell your father."

"Oh, won't I neither!" cried little John.

"Don't be vulgar," said Mrs. Bull. "Now, John, I can trust you. Whatever you do, I know you
won't wake your father unnecessarily. You are a bold, brave child, and I highly approve of
your erecting yourself against Master Wiseman and all that bad set. But, be wary, John; and,
as you have, and deserve to have, great influence with your father, I am sure you will be careful
how you wake him. If he was to make a wild rush, and begin to dance about, on the Platform
in the Hall, I don't know where he'd stop."

Little John, getting on his legs, began buttoning his jacket with great firmness and vigor,
preparatory to action. Master C. J. London, with a dejected aspect and an occasional sob, went
on with his exercise.

WAITING FOR THE POST.--INTERESTING ANECDOTES.

In the village in which we were at one time residing, there dwelt, in a small cottage commanded
by our windows, a lieutenant in the navy on half-pay. We were a child at the time, and one
of our amusements was to watch from our play-room the bees that worked in that cottage-garden,
and the "old gentleman"--as we styled him, because his hair was gray--pace, with his quick,
quarter-deck step the little path that divided the flower-beds. It was a neat though very small
dwelling, almost shut from view by lilacs and evergreens; the garden was gay with sweet flowers,
which might almost be called domestic in this age of new buds and blossoms; and it was carefully
tended by a young girl--his only daughter--and an old female servant. We noticed every morning
that the lieutenant, who was a tall figure, and would have been a handsome and commanding-looking
man but for his very great paleness and his stooping, walked briskly to the gate, and holding
himself a little more erect than usual, glanced first at the vane, noticing with a sailor's
instinct the quarter in which the wind sat; and then turning, gazed anxiously up the village
in the direction of the postman's approach, till that functionary appeared in sight. Then he
would lay his hand nervously on the top of the little garden-gate, half open it, close it again,
and finally, as the letter-carrier advanced, hail him with the inquiry, "Any letter for me
to-day, Roger?" If the answer were a "No," and such was the ordinary reply, he would turn away
with a sigh, and walk slowly back to the house, bending more than ever, and coughing painfully--he
had a distressing cough at times; but his daughter would meet him at the door, and pass her
arm through his, and lead him in, with a gentle affection in the action that was quite intelligible;
and though we could not hear her words, we knew she was consoling him. We also were sorry for
his disappointment. Sometimes a letter came, and he would take it eagerly, but look at it with
a changed countenance, for most frequently it was only one of those large wafered epistles
we have since learned to recognize as bills--even then we could be sure it was not the letter
which he looked for.

And thus he watched daily for something that never came, all through the bright summer and
autumn, and even when the snow lay thick upon the ground, and the cold morning and evening
breeze must have been injurious to one in feeble health. At last we missed him from his usual
post, and the arrival of the village doctor at the cottage confirmed our fears that he was
ill. We never saw him again. A fire glimmered from an upper room, the chamber in which he slept;
and at times his daughter's figure passed the window as she moved across it, in her gentle
and noiseless task of nursing the dying officer. One morning we did not see the usual blaze
from the casement: but the old woman came out and shut the shutters close, and drew down the
blinds, and we saw as she re-entered the house that she was weeping. That very morning the
postman, Roger, stopped at the little wicket, and rang the bell. He held in his hand a very
large, long letter, with words printed outside. The woman-servant answered him, and took the
letter, putting her apron to her eyes as he spoke. It was the long-hoped-for, long-expected
letter from the Admiralty appointing the old officer to a ship. Alas, it came too late! He
who had so long waited in restless anxiety--who had so sickened with disappointed hope--was
gone to a world where the weary rest, and man's toil and worth are neither neglected nor forgotten.
We heard afterward all his sad history, of which there are so many lamentable counterparts.
He had gone to sea while yet a child, had toiled, suffered, and fought at the period when the
very existence of his country depended on the valor of the navy; but then came the peace, and
with many another brave man he had found himself on half-pay, alike unrewarded and forgotten.
Mr. St. Quentin--our gentleman who waited for the post--was a widower with one only child,
who was his idol. To educate and provide for her had been his great anxiety. How could this
be done on his half-pay? It was impossible. True he read hard to become himself her teacher,
but there was much he could not impart to her; and with heroic self-denial he placed her at
an expensive school, and went himself almost without the common necessaries of life to keep
her there. Still the heavy burden thus laid on his slender means obliged him to contract debts,
and it was agony to his just and upright spirit when he found it impossible to defray them.

He had used great energy in his endeavors to get employed again, and just before we made his
acquaintance, "waiting for the post," had received a promise that his services should be remembered.
Both promise and fulfillment came too late! The one awoke hopes which, daily deferred, had
preyed on the very springs of life, and taxed too sorely a constitution much tried by toil
and suffering in youth; the other came when the heart it would have cheered had eased to feel
the joy or sorrow of mortality. His orphan daughter, a pretty gentle creature of seventeen,
was left totally destitute--almost friendless. If they had relatives, all communion with them
had long ceased; and the utterly desolate and isolated situation of Mary St. Quentin was nearly
unparalleled. My family, who were of her father's profession, were much affected by it, and
took a warm interest in her fortunes. They procured for her the small pension accorded to the
orphans of naval or military men, with contributions from several similar funds; and finally
received her into our house, until she could hear of a situation as governess, for which her
dearly-purchased education admirably fitted her.

I remember well the evening she first came among us. How sad and pale she looked in her solemn
black dress, and how low and mournful her voice sounded! Poor girl! a rough world was before
her; a fiercer and more terrible conflict for her timid nature than contending with the storms
and battles in which her father had borne a part. We pitied her greatly, and strove to soothe
and cheer her with all our little skill; though we certainly did not adopt the most likely
means to achieve our object, when some days afterward we told her how we had watched her poor
father as he waited for the post. Then for the first time since her coming among us we saw
her weep; and she murmured, "If he could have seen the letter!"

After a time the exertions of her friends procured her a situation, and she left us. How anxiously
we then watched for the letter that was to tell us that our dear new friend was safe, and well,
and comfortable; and it did not tarry! Mary wrote gratefully, and even cheerfully. She had
been kindly received; the home in which her lot was cast was a splendid chateau, in which all
the comforts and luxuries of life abounded. Moreover, the family treated her as a gentlewoman,
and her pupils were clever and well-trained. She was very thankful for the career of toil and
seclusion to which circumstances condemned her--very willing to do her duty gladly in that
state of life in which it had pleased God to place her. She remained with this family four
or five years, passing her occasional holidays with us; and we learned to love her as a sister,
and to look up to her for advice, which was ever as wise as it was gentle and affectionate.
She was a very sweet creature--so quietly gay, so unselfish, so contented, and so modestly
intelligent, that I can not remember that I have ever met with so perfect a woman. The last
holiday she spent with us we saw a change in her, however; and it must have been a great mental
change to be perceptible in one so self-possessed and patient. She had grown less attentive
to our often exacting wishes; she had become absent and thoughtful--nay, at times a slight
irritation was observable in her manner; but that which struck us most was the habit she really
appeared to have inherited from her father--of watching for the postman. We remarked how eagerly
she listened for his knock--how tremulously she asked for whom the letters were directed--and
the painfully-repressed sigh and darkened countenance with which she turned away when there
was none for her! As she had finally quitted the family with whom she had so long resided,
and was waiting for a new engagement, we thought at first that it was an epistle from some
of the quarters in which she had applied for one she was expecting; but that could not be the
case, for when she had made a re-engagement, and it was fixed that she was to proceed to the
south of France with her future pupils' family, her watching for the post became more evident
and more anxious: nay, to us who observed it, absolutely painful. What letter could she expect
so nervously? Why was she daily so sadly disappointed? The solution came at last. It was the
very morning fixed for her departure for London, where she was to meet her future charge. Her
boxes, corded and directed, were in the hall; she stood at the window, dressed for her journey,
weeping bitterly--for she loved us all, and still timidly shrank from strangers--and we were
holding each a cold, trembling hand, when the servant entered with the letters--"One for Miss
St. Quentin."

She glanced at it, suppressed a faint exclamation, and taking it, her hand trembled so violently
that she could scarcely break the seal. But when it was open, and her eye had glanced over
the contents, what a sudden change took place in her countenance! She blushed deeply, her lip
trembled, and then smiled, and breaking from among us, she sought our mother, and asked to
speak to her alone. That letter had changed her destiny. It was a proposal of marriage from
a man of good position and fortune, who had won her affections by a thousand acts of attention
and tenderness, but had left her uncertain whether he intended to fulfill an only implied promise
or not. True he had said something of writing to her, and therefore she had waited for the
post with such anxiety, and for so long a time in vain: but there had been good and sufficient
reasons for his prolonged silence, and the lady was only too ready to forgive it.

She went to town, accompanied by my father, arranged to remain in England (finding a substitute
as governess for her disappointed employers), and two months afterward was married in our little
village church to one who has made her as happy as it is possible to be in a world of trial
and sorrow.

A very singular and painful waiting for the post occurred at Malta, some years since: it was
related to us by a person concerned in the affair, and we offer the reader the tale as it was
told to us:

It was St. John's day, a festival highly venerated by the Maltese, who claim the beloved disciple
as their patron saint. The English troops quartered in the island were to be reviewed on it,
and as is usual, in compliment to the faith of the islanders, the artillery was ordered to
fire a salute in honor of the day. It was a yearly custom; but the two officers whose duty
it was at this time to see it fulfilled thought it savored of idolatry, and in the presence
of the general and his staff refused to order their men to fire. They were of course put under
an arrest for disobedience; but, the circumstances of the case considered, the general in command
hesitated how to proceed with them, and at his request the governor of the island wrote to
the commander-in-chief at home for instructions in the matter, as it was a case of "tender
conscience." Some delay of course necessarily occurred in getting a reply, and the anxiety
with which the puzzled general and rebellious officers awaited it may be imagined. Day after
day did the eyes of the former traverse the bright blue sea, across which must come the decision
of England, and day after day he waited for the post in vain. Foul winds, bad weather, all
sorts of causes, stayed the course of the packet--there was no steam conveyance in those days--and
before she actually entered Valetta harbor he to whom the letter had been written, the noble
governor, was dead. It was judged expedient that the general should, however, open the commander-in-chief's
answer, to prevent further unpleasant delay. Alas, it had been intended for the eye of Lord
H----only! The commander-in-chief blamed the general, "who ought," he said, "to have tried
and broke the officers on the spot--nothing in a military man could excuse disobedience to
orders;" adding with reference to the general (of course without intending that any one but
Lord H---- should learn his private sentiments), "but I never had much opinion of that officer!"

Poor General P---- loved and reverenced his military chief, as all soldiers must. Those words
so singularly presented to his eyes, wounded him deeply. He was at the time suffering from
low fever; they completed its work, making an impression on his mind no arguments could remove.
He obeyed the orders given; held a court-martial; tried the offenders; dismissed them from
the service; and then, taking to his bed, sank rapidly, and died before the next post from
England could reach the island. He never waited for another!

And now I approach another reminiscence of this common human anxiety, of which I can not think
without deep emotion. We had a young cousin, a fine lad full of spirit and ardor, a midshipman
in the royal navy, who was our especial pride and delight. We had no brother, but he supplied
the want to us, being, as a child, our constant playmate--as a youth, our merriest and best-loved
correspondent. How full of fun, quaint humor, and droll adventures were his letters, and how
we used to long for them, especially for that which proclaimed his arrival in the English seas!
The period for receiving such an announcement had arrived, for his ship had entered Plymouth
harbor; and I can never forget how eagerly I used to wait for the postman, how restlessly I
watched him at an opposite door, and how I hated the servant for delaying him by a tardy attention
to his knock! No letter came, however; day after day, hour after hour passed, and disappointment
became uneasiness, and alarm so terrible, that even the sad certainty was at last a relief.

He never wrote again. He had perished in Tampier Bay, and his death had been one of many instances
of unrecorded but undoubted heroism. The weather was stormy, but it was necessary to send a
boat on shore, and Charles had good-naturedly offered to take the duty of being its officer
in the stead of a young and delicate messmate who had been ordered on the service. It upset
in the surf: two men and our poor cousin clung to its keel for some minutes; at length it became
apparent that one must let go his hold, or all would perish. Both the seamen were married men,
and uttered their natural regret at leaving their children fatherless. The gallant youth (as
they afterward reported when picked up) observed, "Then my life is less precious than yours.
My poor mother, God bless you!" and, quitting his hold, perished in the ocean, which by a strange
fatality has been the grave of nearly all his family.

Waiting for the post upon the mountains of Western India is recalled by this anecdote to my
recollection. I well remember the last time I stood on the heights of Bella Vista, as our ghaut
was called, watching the fleet approach of the tapaul, or postman. It was near sunset--a glorious
hour in all lands, but especially so in the East. A gorgeous canopy of colored light was above
us; beneath the "everlasting hills;" Their tops--for we looked down on the first ranges of
ghauts--tipped with gold and crimson, and regal purple, or with blended colors, as if they
had caught and detained a portion of the rainbow itself. Here and there, bits of jungle were
perceptible, from one of which issued the running courier, whose speed was no bad commentary
or explanation of Job's comparison--"My days are swift as a post." He was a tall, light figure,
gayly dressed, and holding a lance with a little glittering flag at the top. He brought letters
from the presidency; and some native correspondence was also transmitted through his means.
These running posts are occasionally picked off by a tiger in their passage through the jungle;
but the journey to our (then) abode was so frequently made, that the wild animals seldom appeared
in the route, ceding it tacitly to the lords of creation, and permitting us to receive our
letters safely. What joy it was to open one from England! it is really worth a journey to the
East to feel this pleasure. The native letters destined for the official personages of the
family are singular-looking affairs. They have for envelope a bag of king-cob cloth--a costly
fabric of blended silk and gold thread; this is tied carefully with a gold cord, to which is
appended a huge seal, as large and thick as a five-shilling piece. Once during our residence
in India the homeward post was delayed by the loss of the steamer which bore our dispatches
to England; they must have been vainly expected for two months, doubtless to the great alarm
and anxiety of the public. Some of the mail boxes were, however, recovered from the sunken
wreck by means of divers; and our epistles, after visiting the depths of the Red Sea, were
safely conveyed to England. Once before, we were told, a similar catastrophe had occurred,
but the boxes became so saturated with sea-water, that the addresses of the letters were illegible.
It was judged expedient, therefore, to publish as much of their contents as was decipherable,
in the Indian papers--under the idea that those to whom they were addressed would recognize
their own missives from the context; and a most absurdly-mischievous experiment it proved.
Never was such a breach of confidence. All sorts of disagreeable secrets were made out by the
gentle public of the presidency. Intimate friends learned how they laughed at, or hated one
another; matrimonial schemes were betrayed; the scandal, gossip, and confidential disclosures
of the Indian letter-bag making as strange and unpleasant a confusion as if the peninsula had
suddenly been converted into Madame de Genlis's "Palace of Truth." There was no little alarm
when our steamer was lost, lest a similar disclosure should be made; but the world had grown
wiser; and those epistles which were illegibly addressed were, we believe, destroyed, unless
when relating to commercial interests, and other business.

We hope we have not wearied our gentle reader with this subject, for we have yet another little
incident for his ear relative to it, which was told us as a fact by a French lady who knew
the person concerned. Some friends of hers residing in the provinces had an only daughter,
an heiress, and consequently a desirable match. Her hand was eagerly sought by many suitors,
and was at last yielded by her parents to a gentleman of some property who had recently purchased
a chateau in the neighborhood. His apparent wealth, his high connections, and very elegant
manners, had won their favor; and in great delight at the excellent match her daughter was
about to make, Madame L---- wrote to her friends and relatives to inform them of the approaching
happy event. Among these was a lady residing at Marseilles, to whom she described, with all
a Frenchwoman's vivacity, the person, manners, &c., of the bridegroom elect. Answers of congratulation
and good wishes poured in of course; and Madame L----, who had a secret persuasion that she
was an unknown and unhonored Madame de Sevigné, became so pleased with her increased correspondence,
that she made a point of never leaving the house till after the delivery of the post. The Marseilles
correspondent was the only one of the number with whom she had communicated who had not replied
to her letter. This answer was therefore desired with great eagerness; and Madame L---- remembered
afterward, though at the time it awoke no suspicion in her mind, that the lover always appeared
uneasy when she expressed her anxiety on the subject, or her desire to hear from her friend.

The wedding-day arrived; and the bride groom, manifesting a most flattering impatience for
the performance of the ceremony, came early to the house of his affianced, to accompany the
family party to the magistrates, where the contract was to be drawn up. But even on that momentous
day Madame L---- adhered to her custom of waiting for the post, to the evident rage and even
agonized impatience of her destined son-in-law, who urged her with passionate eagerness to
proceed at once to the magistrates. The delay proved most serviceable. The post came in due
time, and brought a letter from Marseilles. The writer, struck by some slight personal peculiarities
which her friend had described, had fancied it possible that the promesso sposo was no other
than an escaped galley-slave, with whom, before his condemnation for a heinous crime, her family
had been intimate. She had therefore, in some alarm, caused her husband to make inquiries into
the matter, and a sufficient mass of evidence had been collected to justify her suspicion,
and cause her to urge inquiry and delay on the part of M. and Madame L----. She suggested,
moreover, that the truth might be easily discovered by a personal examination of the gentleman,
who, if the same individual, had been branded on the right shoulder. The surprise, horror,
and alarm of Madame L---- may be imagined. The contents of the letter were of course instantly
communicated by her to her husband, and by him privately to the bridegroom, whom he requested
to satisfy his wife's fears by showing him his right shoulder. The request was indignantly
refused as an insult to his honor; and convinced of the fact by the agitation and dismay of
the culprit, as well as by this refusal, the gentleman gave him at once into the hands of the
police, who had no difficulty in finding the fatal mark of infamy. He was, indeed, an escaped
convict, and the wealth with which he had dazzled the good provincials was the spoil of a recent
robbery, undertaken by himself and some Parisian accomplices, and so cleverly managed as to
have set at naught hitherto the best efforts of the police for its discovery.

We may be sure Madame L---- congratulated herself highly on having, as if by a providential
instinct, "waited for the post."

CHEERFUL VIEWS OF HUMAN NATURE.

BY THE KING OF THE HEARTH.

"Do thee go on, Phil," said a miner, one of sixteen who sat about a tap-room fire, "Do thee
go on, Phil Spruce; and, Mrs. Pittis, fetch us in some beer."

"And pipes," added a boy.

Mr. Spruce contemplated his young friend with a grim smile. "Well," said he, "it's a story
profitable to be heard, and so--"

"Ay, so it be," said a lame man, who made himself a little more than quits with Nature, by
working with his sound leg on the floor incessantly. "So it be," said Timothy Drum, "Phil's
a philosopher."

"It always strucked me," said a dirty little man, "that Phil has had a sort of nater in him
ever since that night we lost old Tony Barker."

"What happened then?" inquired the squire's new gamekeeper.

"Did ever you see down the shaft of a pit?" asked Phil.

"No; and I'd rather not."

"A deep, deep well. Whatever they may do in other parts, we sing hymns, when we are pulled
up, and if so be any of our butties at such times says a wicked word, he gets cursed finely
when we be safe up at the top. We gon up and down different ways. In some old pits they have
ladders, one under another, which reminds me--"

"Always the way with Phil."

Mr. Spruce gazed sternly in the direction of the whisperer, and drank some beer. "Which reminds
me that once--"

We must here announce the fact concerning Mr. Philip Spruce, that his method of telling a story
("Which reminds me," always meant a story with him) is very discursive. He may be said to resemble
Jeremy Bentham, who, according to Hazlitt's criticism, fills his sentence with a row of pegs,
and hangs a garment upon each of them. Let us omit some portion of his tediousness, and allow
him to go on with his tale.

"It was in the year one thousand, eight, four, four; by token it was the same month, November,
in which the block fell upon Tim Drum's leg, I was invited to a Christmas dinner by old Jabez
Wilson. You are aware, gentlemen, that hereabouts there are a great number of deserted pits.
The entrances to these are mostly covered with a board or two. There aren't many stiles in
our pit-country, so we are drove to using these for firewood. The old pit mouths being left
uncovered, and sometimes hidden in brushwood, it is a very common thing for sheep to tumble
in, and if gentlemen go shooting thereabouts, they may chance to return home without a dog--your
good health, Timothy. As I was saying, I love to ponder upon causes and compare effects. I
pondered as I walked--"

"And the effect was, that you tumbled into a pit, Phil Spruce."

"The truth has been told, gentlemen, but it has been told too soon. And now I've forgotten
where I was. Ay, pondering," here Phil hung up a long shred of philosophy on one of his pegs;
and after the first ten minutes of his harangue, which was chiefly occupied in abusing human
nature, a fierce-looking individual said,

"Go on, sir; you've brought things to that pass where they won't bear aggravation. The company
expects you to fall down the pit directly."

"In the middle of my reflections--my natural Christmas thoughts," continued Phil, "I felt a
severe bump on the back and a singular freedom about my legs, followed by a crash against the
hinder part of my head--"

"To the bottom at once," said the fierce-looking man.

"I was at the bottom of a pit in two seconds. By what means my life was preserved I can not
tell; certain it is that I sustained at that time no serious injury. Of course I was much stunned,
and lay for a long time, I suppose, insensible. When I opened my eyes there was nothing to
be seen more than a faint glimmer from the daylight far above, and a great many dancing stars
which seemed like a swarm of gnats, ready to settle on my body. I now pondered how I should
obtain rescue from my dangerous position, when an odd circumstance arrested my attention. I
was evidently, unless my ears deceived me, not alone in my misfortune; for I heard, as distinctly
as I now hear Mr. Drum's leg upon the fender, I heard a loud voice. It proceeded from a distant
gallery. 'Who did you say?' inquired the voice in a hoarse tone; a softer voice replied, 'Phil
Spruce, I think.' 'Very well,' answered the big sound; 'I'll come to him directly.'

"Here was a state of things. A gentleman resided here and was aware of my intrusion. Moreover,
I was known. Was the acquaintance mutual? Well, gentlemen, that question was soon to be decided,
for presently I heard a rustling and a crackling noise, like the approaching of a lady in a
very stiff silk dress. But that gruff voice! I trembled. As the sound approached, a light gleamed
over the dark, dirty walls, and glittered in the puddle upon which I was reposing. 'He or she
has brought a candle, that is wise.' So I looked round. Mother of Miracles! He, she, or IT.
What do you think approached? A mass of cinder, glowing hot, shaped into head, body, arms,
and legs; black coal on the crown of its head, red glow on the cheeks, and all the rest white
hot, with here and there a little eruption of black bubbles, spirting out lighted gas. It was
the shape of a huge man, who walked up with a most friendly expression in his face, evidently
intending to give me a warm reception.

"And so he did, as I will tell you presently. It needed not the aid of his natural qualities
to throw me into a great and sudden heat; his supernatural appearance was enough for that.
Then I was seized with a great fear lest, in his friendliness, he should expect me to shake
hands. That was as if I should have thrust my fingers into this tap-room grate. Well, ma'am
(your good health, Mrs. Pittis), the strange thing came up to me quite pleasant, with a beaming
face, and said, in something of a voice like a hoarse blast pipe, 'Glad to see you, Mr. Spruce.
How did you come here?' 'O,' said I, 'Sir,' not liking to be behind-hand in civility, 'I only
just dropped in.' 'Cold, up above, Mr. Spruce? Will you walk in and take a little something
warm?' A little something warm! What's that? thought I. 'O yes,' I said, 'with all my heart,
sir.' 'Come along, then; you seem stiff in the bones, Mr. Spruce, allow me to help you up.'
'O Lord!' I cried, forgetting my manners. 'No, thank you, sir. Spruce is my name, and spruce
my nature. I can get up quite nimble.' And so I did, with a leap; although it made my joints
ache, I can tell you. The thing bowed and seemed to be quite glowing double with delight to
see me. Take a little something warm, I thought again. O, but I won't though! However, I must
not seem eager to get away just yet; the beast seems to think I came down on purpose to see
him. 'After you, sir!' said I, bowing and pulling my forelock. 'If you will be so good as to
lead, I'll follow.' 'This way, then, Philip.'

"So we went, along a gallery, and came to a vault which was lighted by the bodies of a great
number of imps, all made of brisk live coal, like my conductor. 'I dare say you find the room
close,' said the king--for I found afterward he was a real king, though he was so familiar.
'What will you take to drink?' I calculated there was nothing weaker than vitriol in his cellar,
so I begged to be excused. 'It is not my habit, sir, to drink early mornings; and indeed I
must not let my wife wait dinner. We will have a little gossip, if you please, and then you
will let one of your servants light me out, perhaps. I merely dropped in, as you are aware,
my dear sir.' 'Quite aware of that, my dear Phil. And very glad I am to get your company. Of
course you are anxious to be up above in good time; and if you can stop here an hour, I shall
be happy to accompany you.' Indeed, thought I to myself, Polly will stare. 'Most happy,' I
replied. 'I fear you will take harm from that nasty puddle at my door,' observed the king.
'Wouldn't you wish to lie down and rest a bit, before we start out together.' I thought that
a safe way of getting through the time. 'You are very good,' said I. 'Get a bed ready, Coffin
and Purse!' Two bright little imps darted away, and the Thing turning round to me with a sulphurous
yawn, said, 'I don't mind, Phil, if I lie down with you.' Surely he's roasting me, I thought.

"True as sorrow, Mr. Timothy, Coffin and Purse came back in no time to say the bed was ready;
and I followed the king with as good courage as a Smithfield martyr. But I did not, I did not
expect what followed. We went into a small vault, of which half the floor was covered by a
blazing fire: all the coals had been raked level, and that was Coffin and Purse's bed-making.
'Well, I'll get in at once,' said the king; 'you see we've a nice light mattress.' 'Light,
sir! why it's in vivid blazes. You don't suppose I can lie down on that.' 'Why not, Phil? You
see I do. Here I am, snug and comfortable.' 'Yes, my dear sir, but you forget the difference
there is between us?' 'And yes again, Mr. Spruce; but please to remember this is Christmas
Day, a day on which all differences should be ended.'

"'And now,' said the monster, sitting up suddenly upon a corner of the bed, 'and now, Phil,
I will urge you to nothing. You are a reasoning man, and count for a philosopher. Let's argue
a bit, Mr. Spruce.' 'I'm favorable to free discussion.' I replied; 'but I decide on principles
of common sense.' 'Let common sense decide,' replied the king, crossing his knees and looking
conversational. 'The point at issue is, whether with your views it would be better for you
to remain a man or to become a cinder. What were your thoughts this morning, Philip Spruce?'
'This morning I was thinking about human nature, sir.' 'And how did you decide upon it, Philip?'
'Humbly asking pardon, sir, and meaning no offense, may I inquire whether in present company
it is permitted to speak disrespectfully of the Devil?'

"I wouldn't have said that, Phil, to a man of his appearance."

"Lord bless you, Tim Drum, he looked so mild disposed, and 'No offense,' he says; 'speak out
without reserve.' 'Then, sir,' said I, 'this is what I think of human nature. I believe that
it was full of every sort of goodness, and that men were naturally well disposed to one another,
till the Devil got that great idea of his. Men are born to worship their Creator, and to supply
the wants of their neighbors, but then comes in the deceiving fiery monster, with a pocketful
of money, and says, quite disinterested, 'Gentlemen and Ladies, it's of no use asking you to
venerate me; you don't do it, and you oughtn't to; but the most convenient and proper thing
is for every individual to worship only just his self. You see the result of this,' says the
old sinner; 'by paying sacrifice to your own images, you just change things from the right-hand
pocket to the left, or if you go abroad, as you must do, in search of offerings, all the fish
comes to your own net, and all the fat into your own belly. You smoke your own incense, and
if you chance to be remiss in your devotions, you may make peace and atonement any way you
please. Then,' says the great brimstone beast--I beg your pardon, sir, excuse my liberty of
speech--'if any body remark you are my servants, you can laugh, and tell them you are no such
fools. As for any formulary of religion, follow in that the fashion of your country--'

"The cinder gentleman, Mrs. Pittis, my dear, rolled about in the fire, quite at his ease, and
said, 'Very good, Phil. And what else have you to say of human nature?' by which you will see
that he had discrimination enough to perceive the value of my observations. 'The result is,
sir,' I says to him then, 'that the whole human race is a-dancing and a-trumpeting in corners,
every man singing hymns in honor of his self. And the old enemy capers up and down the country
and the town, rejoicing at the outcry which he hears from every lip in his honor. A friend
is rarer than a phoenix; for no man can serve two images, and each sticks firmly by his own.'

"'Have you no charity yourself this Christmas, Mr. Spruce?' inquired the king, after he had
called to his two imps that they should put fresh coals upon the bed, and rake it up. 'When
I was a young man, sir,' said I, 'no one could have started in the world with a stronger faith
in human goodness. But I've seen my error. All the ways of human nature are humbug, sir; as
for my fellow-creatures, I've been very much deceived in 'em. That's all I know in answer to
your question.'

"'I understand you, Phil,' the king said, lounging back upon the bed, and kindling the new
coals into a blaze around him by the mere contact of his body. 'You are a philosopher out at
elbows, and therefore a little out of temper with the world. You would like best to make your
observations upon human nature without being jostled. You'd rather see the play from a snug
little box, than be an actor in it, kicked about and worried.' 'Ah, sir,' said I, 'and where
is such a seat provided?' 'Philip, I can answer that question,' said the king; 'and what is
more, I can give you free admission to a snug private box.' 'How so, sir?' said I, quite eagerly.
'The coal-box, Phil,' replied the king. 'I'm puzzled, sir,' said I. 'In what way is my condition
to be improved by the act of sitting in a coal-box?' 'That, my dear Phil, I will make as clear
to you as a fire on a frosty night. Know, then, that I am King among the Coals.' I bowed, and
was upon the point of kissing his extended hand, but drew back my nose suddenly. 'The cinder
which I now have on I wear--because it is large and easy--in the manner of a dressing-gown,
when here at home. I am, however, a spirit, and ruler over many other spirits similarly formed.
Now, Phil, the business and amusement of myself and subjects is to transfer ourselves at will
into the tenancy of any coal we please. The scuttles of the whole kingdom are our meeting-houses.
Every coal cast upon the fire, Phil, is, by our means, animated with a living spirit. It is
our amusement, then, to have a merry sport among ourselves; and it is our privilege to watch
the scenes enacted round the hearths which we enliven. When the cinder becomes cold, the spirit
is again set free, and flies, whither it pleases, to a new abode.'"

"Isn't that the doctrine of metamicosis?" asked the boy (a national scholar) tapping the ashes
from his pipe-bowl.

"It's a thing I never heard on," said the gamekeeper. Mr. Spruce went on:

"'Did you never,' continued his majesty, 'when gazing into the fire, see a grotesque face glow
before you? That face, Phil, has been mine. You have, then, seen the King among the Coals.
If you become a cinder, Mr. Spruce, you may consider yourself made a judge.'

"'Well, sir,' says I, 'your reverence, it's firstly requisite to judge whether I will or won't
sit down upon the fire. It's my opinion I won't. I'd like a little more discussion.' 'Talk
away, Phil,' said the king. 'Well, sir,' says I, 'since you're always a-looking--leastways
in winter--through the bars of grates, it's possible you've seen a bit yourself of human nature.
Don't it fidget you?' 'Why,' says he, 'Phil,' a-stretching out his arms for a great yawn so
suddenly as very nigh to set my coat on fire with his red fingers, 'I have been tolerably patient,
haven't I?' 'If it's sarcasm you mean,' says I, a little nettled, 'I must say, it's a figure
of speech I don't approve of.'

"'I beg your pardon, sir,' he says, 'and here's an answer to your question. It's my opinion,
Mr. Spruce, that as a cinder you will be agreeably surprised. I do see people sitting around
me, now and then, whom I can't altogether get my coals to blaze for cheerfully. They sit and
talk disparagement about all manner of folks their neighbors; they have a cupboard in their
hearts for hoarding up the grievances they spend their lives in searching for; they hate the
world, and could make scandal out of millstones, but if one hints that they are erring, they
are up in arms, and don't approve of sarcasm.' 'Sir,' says I, 'you are personal.' 'By no means,
Mr. Spruce; you, and a number like you, are good people in the main, and deeply to be pitied
for your foolish blunder. You're a philosopher, Phil,' he says, 'and did you never hear that
your "I" is the only thing certainly existent, and that the world without may be a shadow or
mere part of you, or, if external, of no certain form or tint, having the color of the medium
through which you view it--your own nature.' Here I saw occasion for a joke. 'Sir,' I says,
'if my own "I" is the only thing certainly existing, then the external world is all my eye,
which proves what I propounded.' His flames went dead all of a sudden, and he looked black
from top to toe. 'I am sure I beg your pardon, sir,' says I, 'excuse my liberty.'

"'He took no verbal notice of what I had said, but gave a tremendous shiver, and his flames
began to play again. 'I'm of a warm and cheerful turn of mind,' says he, 'and I must say, that
whenever I look out upon the men and women in the world, I see them warm and cheerful.' 'That's
nothing wonderful,' said I; 'it's just because you see them sitting round your blaze.' 'Well,'
says he, 'Mr. Spruce, I'm very glad you own so much; for my opinion is, that if you had shone
out cheerfully when you were in the world, and warmed the folks that came within your influence--if
you had put a little kindly glow into your countenance, you would have been surrounded always
as I generally am.' 'You're young, says I, 'and you have had no experience; leastways, your
experience has not been human. You get stirred when you're low, and people tend you for their
own sakes--you ain't preyed upon by disappointments.'

"'Young!' said he; 'disappointments!' And, to my horror, he stood bolt upright, to be impressive.
'Look you, Mr. Spruce, the youngest is the wisest; the child remembers throughout years a happy
day, and can forget his tears as fast as they evaporate. He grows up, and his budding youth
imagines love. Two or three fancies commonly precede his love. As each of these decays, he,
in his inexperience, is eloquent about his blighted hopes, his dead first love, and so on.
In the first blossom of his manhood, winds are keen to him--at his first plunge into the stream
of active life, he finds the water cold. Who shall condemn his shiver? But if he is to be a
healthy man, he will strike out right soon, and glow with cheerful exercise in buffeting the
stream. Youth, Mr. Spruce, may be allowed to call the water of the world too cold, but so long
only as its plunge is recent. It is a libel on maturity and age to say that we live longer
to love less. Preyed upon by disappointments--'

"'Yes,' says I, 'preyed upon.'

"'Say, rather, blessed with trial. Who'd care to swim in a cork jacket! Trouble is a privilege,
believe me, friend, to those who know from whose hand, for what purpose, it is sent. I do not
mean the trouble people cut out for themselves by curdling all the milk of kindness in their
neighbors. But when a man will be a man, will labor with Truth, Charity, and Self-Reliance--always
frank and open in his dealings--always giving credit to his neighbors for their good deeds,
and humbly abstaining from a judgment of what looks like evil in their conduct--when he knows,
under God, no helper but his own brave heart, and his own untiring hand--there is no disappointment
in repulse. He learns the lesson Heaven teaches him, his Faith, and Hope, and Charity, by constant
active effort became strong--gloriously strong--just as the blacksmith's right arm becomes
mighty by the constant wielding of his hammer. Disappointment--let the coward pluck up courage--disappointment
is a sheet-and-pumpkin phantom to the bold. Let him who has battled side by side with Trouble,
say whether it was not an angel sent to be his help. Find a true-hearted man whose energies
have brought him safe through years of difficulty; ask him whether he found the crowd to be
base-natured through which he was called upon to force his way? Believe me, he will tell you
"No." Having said this, his majesty broke out into a blaze, and lay down in his bed again.
'Well,' he said, 'Philip, will you come to bed with me?'

"'Why, sir,' said I, 'to say the best of it, you're under a misconception; but if it's in the
nature of a coal to take such cheerful views of things as you appear to do, I'd rather be a
coal than what I am. It's cold work living in the flesh, such as I find it--you seem jolly
as a hot cinder, and for the matter of that, what am I now but dust and ashes? Coke is preferable.'

"'Coffin and Purse, you're wanted,' cried the king. And, indeed, Mrs. Pittis, and, indeed,
gentlemen, I must turn aside one minute to remark the singularity of this king's body-guard,
Coffin and Purse. 'Cash and Mortality,' said the king to me, 'make up, according to your theory,
the aim and end of man. So with a couple of cinders you can twit him with his degradation.
Sometimes Coffin, sometimes Purse, leaps out into his lap when he is cogitating.' 'Yes,' said
I 'that will be extremely humorous. But, so please your majesty, I still have one objection
to joining your honorable body.' 'What is that, Phil?' 'I suppose, if I sits down in them there
flames, they'll burn me.' 'To be sure,' said the king, kicking up his heels, and scraping a
furnace load of live coal over his body, just as you might pull up the blanket when you're
in bed to-night, Mrs. Pittis. 'Well, your highness,' said I, 'how about the pain?' 'Pah!' says
the king, 'where's your philosophy? Did you never see a fly jump into a lamp-flame?' 'Yes,
sure,' I answered. 'And what happened then? A moment's crackle, and an end of it. You've no
time to feel pain.' 'Well, then,' said I, 'if your majesty will make a hole for me as near
the middle as is convenient to yourself, I will jump into the bed straightway.' The king made
a great spatter among the coals, and in I jumped. You know, ma'am, that a great part of our
bodies is composed of water.'

"'I don't know that of any gentleman in this room,' replied the landlady. 'But I do believe
that you are two parts built out of strong beer.'

"There was a burst--a flash, gentlemen; the liquid part of me went off in instantaneous steam.
I cried out with a sharp burn in my foot. The pot was boiling over furiously that contained
our bit of dinner; and as I sat close in to the fire, I got considerably scalded. How I got
back in the steam to my own fireside, I never rightly comprehended. Fill the can now, Mrs. Pittis."

"'Yes,' said the landlady, 'but let me tell you, Mr. Spruce, that king of the hearth is a gentleman,
and if you really had gone with the coals and got acquainted with fire-sides, it would have
done you a great deal of good. You'd have owned then that there is a mighty deal more love
than hatred in the world. You'd have heard round almost any hearth you chose to play eavesdropper
to, household words, any thing but hard or bitter. Some people do not pay their scores with
me, but, on the whole, I live. Some of our human natures may run termagant; but, on the whole,
we men and women love. Among the worst are those who won't bear quietly their share of work,
who can't learn self-reliance, but run to and fro, squealing for help, and talking sentiment
against their neighbors, who won't carry their burdens for them. It's all very well for a musty,
discontented old bachelor to say there's no love in the world, but it's a falsehood. I know
better.'

"'My pipe's out,' said the boy. 'Be smart there with the 'baccy.'"

[From Dickens's Household Words.]

THE MYSTERIES OF A TEA-KETTLE.

At one of Mr. Bagges's small scientific tea-parties, Mr. Harry Wilkinson delivered to the worthy
gentleman a lecture, based principally on reminiscences of the Royal Institution, and of a
series of lectures delivered there by Professor Faraday, addressed to children and young people.
For it is not the least of the merits of that famous chemist and great man, Professor Faraday,
that he delights to make the mightiest subject clear to the simplest capacity, and that he
shows his mastery of Nature in nothing more than in being thoroughly imbued with the spirit
of her goodness and simplicity.

This particular lecture was on Natural Philosophy in its bearings on a kettle. The entertainment
of a "Night with Mr. Bagges" was usually extemporaneous. It was so on this occasion. The footman
brought in the tea-kettle. "Does it boil?" demanded Mr. Bagges.

"It have biled, sir," answered the domestic.

"Have biled, sir!" repeated Mr. Bagges. "Have biled! And what if it has 'biled,' or boiled,
as I desire you will say in future? What is that to the purpose? Water may be frozen, you simpleton,
notwithstanding it has boiled. Was it boiling, sir, eh? when you took it off the fire? That
is the question, sir."

"Yes, sir, that was what I mean to say, sir," replied Thomas.

"Mean to say, sir! Then why didn't you say it, sir? Eh? There--no, don't put it on, sir; hold
it still. Harry, reach me the thermometer," said Mr. Bagges, putting on his spectacles. "Let
me see. The boiling point of water is two hundred and--what?"

"Two hundred and twelve, Fahrenheit," answered Master Wilkinson, "if commonly pure, and boiled
in a metallic vessel, and under a pressure of the atmosphere amounting to fifteen pounds on
every square inch of surface, or when the barometer stands at thirty inches."

"Gracious, what a memory that boy has!" exclaimed his uncle. "Well; now this water in the kettle--eh?--why,
this is not above one hundred and fifty degrees. There, sir, now set it on the fire, and don't
bring me up cold water to make tea with again; or else," added Mr. Bagges, making a vague attempt
at a joke, "or else--eh?--you will get yourself into hot water."

Mr. Thomas was seized with a convulsion in the chest, which he checked by suddenly applying
his open hand to his mouth, the effort distending his cheeks, and causing his eyes to protrude
in a very ridiculous manner, while Mr. Bagges disguised his enjoyment of the effects of his
wit in a cough.

"Now let me see," said the old gentleman, musingly contemplating the vessel simmering on the
fire; "how is it, eh, Harry, you said the other day that a kettle boils?"

"La!" interrupted Mrs. Wilkinson, who was of the party, "why, of course, by the heat of the
coals, and by blowing the fire, if it is not hot enough."

"Aha!" cried her brother, "that's not the way we account for things, Harry, my boy, eh? Now,
convince your mother; explain the boiling of a kettle to her: come."

"A kettle boils," said Harry, "by means of the action of currents."

"What are you talking about? Boiling a plum-pudding in a tea-kettle!" exclaimed the mystified
mamma.

"Currents of heated particles--of particles of hot water," Harry explained. "Suppose you put
your fire on your kettle--on the lid of it--instead of your kettle on your fire--- what then?"

"You would be a goose," said his mother.

"Exactly so--or a gosling"--rejoined her son; "the kettle would not boil. Water is a bad conductor
of heat. Heat passes through the substance of water with very great difficulty. Therefore,
it would have a hard matter to get from the top of a kettle of water to the bottom. Then how
does it so easily get from the bottom to the top?"

"Ah!" sighed Mr. Bagges. "In my young days we should have said, because the heat rises, but
that won't do now. What is all that about the--eh--what--law of ex--what?--pansion --eh?"

"The law of expansion of fluids and gases by heat. This makes the currents that I spoke of
just now, mamma; and I should have spelt the word to explain to you that I didn't mean plums.
You know what a draught is?"

"I am sorry to say I do," Mr. Bagges declared with much seriousness, instinctively carrying
his hand to the region of the human body from the Latin for which is derived the term, Lumbago.

"Well," pursued Harry, "a draught is a current of air. Such currents are now passing up the
chimney, and simply owing to that trifling circumstance, we are able to sit here now without
being stifled and poisoned."

"Goodness!" ejaculated Mrs. Wilkinson.

"To be sure. The fire, in burning, turns into gases, which are rank poison--carbonic acid,
for one; sulphurous acid, for another. Hold your nose over a shovelful of hot cinders if you
doubt the fact. The gases produced by the fire expand; they increase in bulk without getting
heavier, so much so that they become lighter in proportion than the air, and then they rise,
and this rising of hot air is what is meant by heat going upward. The currents of hot air that
go up the chimney in this way have currents of cold air rushing after them, to supply their
place. When you heat water, currents are formed just as when you heat gas or air. The heated
portion of water rises, and some colder water comes down in its place; and these movements
of the water keep going on till the whole bulk of it is equally hot throughout."

"Well, now," interrupted Mr. Bagges, "I dare say this is all very true, but how do you prove it?"

"Prove that water is heated by the rising and falling of hot currents? Get a long, slender
glass jar. Put a little water, colored with indigo, or any thing you like, into the bottom
of it. Pour clear water upon the colored, gently, so as not to mix the two, and yet nearly
to fill the jar. Float a little spirit of wine on the top of the water, and set fire to it.
Let it blaze away as long as you like; the colored water will remain steady at the bottom of
the jar. But hold the flame of a spirit-lamp under the jar, and the colored water will rise
and mix with the clear, in very little time longer than it would take you to say Harry Wilkinson."

"Ah! So the water gets colored throughout for the same reason that it gets heated throughout,"
Mr. Bagges observed, "and when it gets thoroughly hot--what then?"

"Then it boils. And what is boiling?"

"Bubbling," suggested the young philosopher's mamma.

"Yes; but ginger-beer bubbles," said Harry, "but you wouldn't exactly call that boiling. Boiling
is the escaping of steam. That causes the bubbling; so the bubbling of water over the fire
is only the sign that the water boils. But what occasions the escape of the steam?"

"The heat, of course--the--what is the right word?--the caloric," answered Mr. Bagges.

"True; but what heat? Why, the excess of heat over two hundred and twelve degrees--taking that
as the average boiling point of water. You can heat water up to that point, and it remains
water; but every degree of heat you cause to pass into it above that, turns a quantity of the
water into steam; and flies off in the steam, unless the steam is hindered from escaping by
extraordinary pressure. Blow the fire under that kettle as much as you will, and you will make
the water boil faster, but you won't make it a bit hotter than two hundred and twelve degrees."

"Well, to be sure!" Mrs. Wilkinson exclaimed.

"If water," continued Harry, "could keep on getting hotter and hotter above the boiling point,
why, we might have our potatoes charred in the pot, or our mutton boiled to a cinder. When
water is confined in a strong vessel--and strong it must be to prevent a tremendous blow-up--confined,
I say, so that no steam can escape, it may be heated almost red-hot; and there is a vessel
made for heating water under pressure, called Papin's Digestor, which will digest almost any
thing."

"What an enviable apparatus!" exclaimed Mr. Bagges.

"Well," resumed Harry; "so the boiling point of water depends on the degree of force which
the air, or what-not, is pressing on its surface with. The higher the spot on which you boil
your water, the lower the point it boils at. Therefore, water boiling at the top of a mountain
is not so hot as water boiling at the mountain's base. The boiling point of water on the summit
of Mont Blanc, is as low as one hundred and eighty-four degrees. So, if water must be at two
hundred and twelve degrees, to make good tea, don't choose too high a hill to build a temperance
hall on. The heavier, also, the air is, from the quantity of moisture in it, the hotter water
becomes before it boils. If the atmosphere were carbonic acid gas, water would get much hotter
without boiling than it can under--"

"Present arrangements," interposed Mr. Badges.

"Consisting of a mixture of nitrogen and oxygen," continued Harry. "Water requires only a very
low heat to make it boil in an exhausted receiver, out of which the air has been pumped, so
as to leave none to press upon its surface. Owing to boiling depending upon pressure, you can
actually make water boil by means of cold."

"What next?" sighed Mrs. Wilkinson.

"You can, indeed. Put a little boiling water in a salad-oil flask; so that the flask may be
a quarter full, say. Cork the flask tightly. The boiling stops; and the upper three-fourths
of the flask are full of vapor. Squirt a jet of ice-cold water upon the flask, above where
the water is, and the water below will instantly begin to boil. The reason why, is this. The
vapor in the flask presses on the surface of the hot water. The cold condenses the vapor--turns
it back to water. That takes off the pressure for the time; and then the hot water directly
flies into vapor, and boils, and so on, till it cools down too low to boil any longer. What
reduces the boiling point of water on a hill or a mountain is, that the pressure of the atmosphere
decreases as you ascend. A rise of five hundred and thirty feet in height above the level of
the sea, makes a difference of one degree; so, give me a kettle of water and a thermometer,
and I'll tell you exactly how near the moon we are."

"I shouldn't think one could make good hot mixed punch up in a balloon, now," observed Mr.
Bagges, reflectively.

"Then," Harry proceeded, "it requires more heat to make water boil in a glass vessel than it
does in a metal one. A metal vessel's inner surface is made up of very small points and dents.
Scratching the inside of the glass so as to give it a roughness something like what the metal
has, makes the boiling point lower; and a few iron filings thrown into water boiling in glass
at two hundred and fourteen degrees, will bring it down to two hundred and twelve. The filings,
and the roughness of the glass, are so many more points for the heat to pass into the water
from, and form steam, and the water does not cling to them so hard as it clings to a smooth
surface. Throw a lot of hay into a pan of hot water, and it makes a quantity of steam rise
directly; and I have heard a doctor say that some poor people are in the habit of giving themselves
cheap steam-baths by this means."

"A very good thing for rheumatic pains, I should think; certainly a much more rational remedy
than patent medicines or Government poison," Mr. Bagges remarked.

"There are some salts," continued Harry, "which, if dissolved in water, will prevent it from
boiling till it is heated to two hundred and sixty-four degrees, as if they held the water
back from flying into steam. So, then, the boiling of water may be hindered, more or less,
by pressure from without, and attraction from within. The boiling point of water depends on
another important fact which the kettle always mentions before it boils, although we don't
all of us understand the kettle's language. The singing of the kettle tells us--"

"That the water is going to boil," interrupted mamma.

"Yes, and that water contains air. The singing of the kettle is the noise made by the escape
of the air, which is driven off by the heat. The air sticks and hangs in the water, till the
heat expands it and makes it rise. Put a glass of water under the receiver of an air-pump,
and exhaust the receiver. As you pump, the water begins to bubble, as if it were boiling; but
the bubbles are the air contained in the water, being pumped out. The air-bubbles act like
wedges between the little invisible drops that make up the whole water. If it were not for
them, the water would be a mass which would hold together so hard that it would not go into
steam, or boil, till it was heated to two hundred and seventy degrees, as may be proved by
boiling some water quite deprived of air. And not only that, but when it did boil, it would
boil all at once, and blow up with a tremendous explosion; which would be a still greater inconvenience
in boiling a kettle."

"A pretty kettle of fish, indeed!" Mr. Bagges observed.

"So," said Harry, "strictly pure water would not be quite so great a blessing to us as you
might think. Of course, you know, uncle, I don't mean to say that there is any advantage in
the impurity of such water as the Thames, except when used for the purpose of fertilizing the
earth. I am speaking of water so pure as to contain no air. Water of such severe purity would
be very unmanageable stuff. No fishes could live in it, for one thing. I have already given
you one good reason why it would be unsuitable to our kettle; and another is, that it would
not be good to drink. Then water, as we find it in the world, has a very useful and accommodating
disposition to find its own level. Pump all the air out of water, however, and it loses this
obliging character in a great measure. Suppose I take a bent glass-tube, and fill one arm of
it with airless water. Then I turn the tube mouth upward, and if the water were common water,
it would instantly run from one arm into the other, and stand at the same level in both. But
if the water has been exhausted of its air, it remains, most of it, in the one arm, and won't
run till I give the table a smart rap, and shake it. So, but for the air contained in water,
we could not make the water run up and down hill as we do. If water were deprived of air, London
would be almost deprived of water."

"And water," observed Mr. Bagges, "would be robbed of a very valuable property."

"Good again, uncle. Now, if we could see through the kettle, we should be able to observe the
water boiling in it which is a curious sight when looked into. To examine water boiling, we
must boil the water in a glass vessel--a long tube is the best--heated with a spirit lamp.
Then first you see the water in motion, and the air-bubbles being driven off by the heat. As
the water gets hotter, other bubbles appear, rising from the bottom of the tube. They go up
for a little way, and then they shrink, and by the time they get to the top of the water, you
can hardly distinguish them. These are bubbles of steam, and they get smaller as they rise,
because at first the water is colder above than below, in proportion to the distance from the
flame, and the cold gradually condenses the bubbles. But when the water gets thoroughly hot,
the bubbles grow larger and rise quicker, and go of the same size right up to the top of the
water, and there escape--if you choose to let them. And steam was allowed to escape so for
many, many ages, wasn't it, uncle, before it was set to work to spin cotton for the world,
and take us to America within a fortnight, and whirl us over the ground as the crow flies,
and almost at a crow's pace?"

"For all which," remarked Mr. Bagges, "we have principally to thank what's his name."

"Watt was his name, I believe, uncle. Well; heat turns water into steam, and I dare say I need
not tell you that a quantity of water becoming steam, fills an immense deal more space than
it did as mere water. Cold turns the steam back into water, and the water fills the same space
as it did before. Water, in swelling into steam and shrinking back into water again, moves,
of course, twice, and mighty motions these are, and mighty uses are made of them, I should
rather think."

"I believe you, my boy," said Mr. Bagges.

"And now," asked Harry, "have you any idea of what a deal of heat there is in steam?"

"It is hot enough to scald you," answered his mamma; "I know that."

"Yes; and hot enough, too, to cook potatoes. But there is much more heat in it than that comes
to. Take a kettle of cold water. See at what degree the thermometer stands in the water. Put
the kettle on the fire, and observe how long it takes to boil. It will boil at two hundred
and twelve degrees; and therefore, during the time it has taken to boil, there has gone into
it the difference of heat between two hundred and twelve degrees and the degree it stood at
when first put on the fire. Keep up the same strength of fire, so that the heat may continue
to go into the water at the same rate. Let the water boil quite away, and note how long it
is in doing so. You can then calculate how much heat has gone into the water while the water
has been boiling away. You will find that quantity of heat great enough to have made the water
red-hot, if all the water, and all the heat, had remained in the kettle. But the water in your
kettle will have continued at two hundred and twelve degrees to the last drop, and all the
steam that it has turned into will not have been hotter--according to the thermometer--than
two hundred and twelve degrees; whereas a red heat is one thousand degrees. The difference
between two hundred and twelve degrees and one thousand degrees, is seven hundred and eighty-eight
degrees; and what has become of all this heat? Why, it is entirely contained in the steam,
though it does not make the steam hotter. It lies hid in the steam, and therefore it is called
latent heat. When the steam is condensed, all that latent heat comes out of it, and can be
felt, and the quantity of it can be measured by a thermometer. The warmth that issues from
steam-pipes used to warm a house, is the latent heat of the steam that escapes as the steam
turns back to water."

"Latent, heat! latent heat!" repeated Mr Bagges, scratching his head. "Eh? Now, that latent
heat always puzzles me. Latent, lying hid. But how can you hide heat? When the zany in the
pantomime hides the red-hot poker in his pocket, he cauterizes his person. How--eh?--how can
heat be latent?"

"Why, the word heat has two meanings, uncle. In the first place, it means hotness. Hotness
can not be latent, as the clown finds when he pockets the poker. In the second place, heat
means a something the nature of which we don't know, which is the cause of hotness, and also
the cause of another effect. While it is causing that other effect, it does not cause hotness.
That other effect which heat causes in the instance of steam, is keeping water in the form
of steam. The heat that there is in steam, over and above two hundred and twelve degrees, is
employed in this way. It is wholly occupied in preserving the water in an expanded state, and
can't cause the mercury in the thermometer to expand and rise as well. For the same reason,
it could give you no feeling of hotness above what boiling water would--if you had the nerve
to test it. While it is making steam continue to be steam, it is latent. When the steam becomes
water again, it has no longer that work to do, and is set free. Free heat is what is commonly
understood by heat. This is the heat which cooks our victuals, the heat we feel, the heat that
singes Mr. Merriman. Latent heat is heat that doesn't warm, singe, or cook, because it is otherwise
engaged. If you press gas suddenly into a fluid, the latent heat of the gas is set free. You
seem to squeeze it out. Indeed, the same thing happens, if you violently force any substance
into a closer form all at once. Every thing appears to have more or less latent heat in it,
between its little particles, keeping them at certain distances from each other. Compress the
particles within a smaller compass, and a part of the latent heat escapes, as if it were no
longer wanted. When a substance in a compressed state expands on a sudden, it draws in heat,
on the other hand. When a lady bathes her forehead with eau-de-Cologne to cure a headache,
the heat of the head enters the eau-de-Cologne, and becomes latent in it while it evaporates.
If you make steam under high pressure, you can heat it much above two hundred and twelve degrees.
Suppose you let off steam, so compressed and heated, by a wide hole, from the boiler, and put
your hand into it as it rushes out--"

"What? Why, you'd scald your hand off!" cried Mr. Bagges.

"No, you wouldn't. The steam rushes out tremendously hot, but it expands instantly so very
much, that the heat in it directly becomes latent in a great measure; which cools it down sufficiently
to allow you to hold your hand in it without its hurting you. But then you would have to mind
where you held your hand; because where the steam began to condense again, it would be boiling
hot."

"I had rather take your word for the experiment than try it, young gentleman," Mr. Bagges observed.

"Another very curious thing," proceeded Harry, "in regard to boiling, has been discovered lately.
A kettle might be too hot to boil water in. Take a little bar of silver, heated very highly;
dip it into water. At first, you have no boiling, and you don't have any at all till the silver
has cooled some degrees. Put a drop of water into a platinum dish, heated in the same way,
and it will run about without boiling till the heat diminishes; and then it bursts into steam.
M. Boutigny, the French chemist, made this discovery. Vapor forms between the drop of water
and the red-hot metal, and, being a bad conductor of heat, keeps the heat of the metal for
some time from flowing into the water. Owing to this, water, and mercury even, may be frozen
in a red-hot vessel if the experiment is managed cleverly. A little more than a couple of centuries
ago, this would have been thought witchcraft."

"And the philosopher," added Mr. Bagges, "would have been fried instead of his water-drop.
Let me see--eh? what do they call this singular state of water?"

"The spheroidal state," answered Harry. "However, that is a state that water does not get into
in a kettle, because kettles are not allowed to become red hot, except when they are put carelessly
on the fire with no water in them, or suffered to remain there after the water has boiled quite
away!"

"Which is ruination to kettles," Mrs. Wilkinson observed.

"Of course it is, mamma, because at a red heat iron begins to unite with oxygen, or to rust.
Another thing that injures kettles is the fur that collects in them. All water in common use
contains more or less of earthy and other salts. In boiling, these things separate from the
water, and gradually form a fur or crust inside the kettle or boiler."

"And a nice job it is to get rid of it," said his mamma.

"Well, chemistry has lessened that difficulty," replied Harry. "The fur is mostly carbonate
of lime. In that case, all you have to do is to boil some sal-ammoniac--otherwise muriate,
or more properly hydrochlorate of ammonia--in the furred vessel. The hydrochloric acid unites
with the lime, and the carbonic acid goes to the ammonia. Both the compounds formed in this
way dissolve and wash away; and so you may clean the foulest boiler or kettle. This is a rather
important discovery; for the effect of fur in a kettle is to oppose the passage of heat, and
therefore to occasion the more fuel to be required to boil water in it, which is a serious
waste and expense when you have a large steam-boiler to deal with. Dr. Faraday mentions the
case of a Government steamer that went to Trieste, and during the voyage had so much fur formed
in her boiler as to oblige all her coal to be consumed, and then the engineers were forced
to burn spars, rigging, bulkheads, and even chopped cables, and to use up every shaving of
spare timber in the ship. Soot underneath the kettle, as well as fur inside it, is a hindrance
to boiling, as it is a bad conductor; and that is the reason why one can bear to hold a kettle
of hot water, which is very sooty on its under surface, on the flat of the hand. So a black
kettle doesn't give out its heat readily to what touches it, and so far it is good to keep
water hot; but it gets rid of heat in another way; as I dare say you know, uncle."

"Eh?" said Mr. Bagges, "why, what?--no--I did know something about it the other day--but I've
such a memory!--and--eh?--no--I've quite forgotten it."

"By radiation, you know. All warm bodies are constantly giving off rays of heat, as shining
ones are giving off rays of light, although the heat-rays are invisible."

"How do we know that?" asked Mr. Bagges.

"Get a couple of concave mirrors--a sort of copper basins, polished inside. Stand them face
to face, some yards apart. Put a hot iron ball--not red hot--in the focus of one mirror. Put
a bit of phosphorus in the focus of the other. The phosphorus will take fire; though without
the mirrors you might place it much nearer the hot iron, and yet it would not burn. So we know
that there are rays of heat, because we can reflect them as we can rays of light. Some things
radiate better than others. Those that have bright metal surfaces radiate worst, though such
are what are used for reflectors. If their surfaces are blackened or roughened, they radiate
better. A bright kettle gives off fewer rays of heat than a black one, and so far, is better
to keep water hot in. But then, on the other hand, it yields more heat to the air, or the hob
or hearth that it stands upon--if colder than itself. The bright kettle gives off heat in one
way and the black in another. I don't know at what comparative rate exactly."

"Six of one, and half-a-dozen of the other," Mr. Bagges suggested.

"Now look at the wonderful relations of the kettle, uncle!"

"Relations?--Eh?--what the pot and the saucepan?" said Mr. Bagges.

"Oh, oh, uncle! No; its relations to the pressure of the atmosphere and every cause that affects
it--to the conveyance, and conduction, and radiation of heat--to latent heat or caloric, to
the properties of water, to chemical decomposition--and to steam and its astonishing marvels,
present and to come!"

"Well," said Mr. Bagges, "it is wonderful; and the kettle certainly is very respectably connected.
Eh? And I hope to profit by the subject of our conversation; and so, I say, pour me out a cup
of tea."

MY NOVEL; OR, VARIETIES IN ENGLISH LIFE.

"Then," said the wise man, "every thing shall go into it." Riccabocca, however, had more than
this art--he had one which is often less innocent--the art of penetrating into the weak side
of his associates, and of saying the exact thing which hits it plump in the middle, with the
careless air of a random shot.

"Cosa meravigliosa!" exclaimed Jackeymo--"miraculous thing!" and he crossed himself with great
fervor. That's why the stock's ben't respected; they has not had an example yet--we wants an
example."

"On my word, I believe that's very true; and the first idle fellow you catch in any thing wrong
we'll clap in, and keep him there for two hours at least."

"With the biggest pleasure, your honor--that's what it is."

Here the Parson closed his sermon, and the congregation bowed their heads.

(To be continued.)

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 32: By the pounds Milanese, Giacomo means the Milanese lira.]

[Footnote 33: JEREMY TAYLOR--Of Christian Prudence. Part II.]

[Footnote 34: Ibid.]

Monthly Record of Current Events

POLITICAL AND GENERAL NEWS.

THE UNITED STATES.

The principal event of the month has been the opening of the second session of the Thirty-first
Congress, which occurred on the second of December. Each House was called to order by its presiding
officer. Hon. WILLIAM R. KING of Alabama in the Senate, and Hon. HOWELL COBB of Georgia in
the House. The Message of President FILLMORE was transmitted to Congress on the same day. The
state of public feeling upon topics connected with slavery, and the fact that President FILLMORE'S
views upon the subject had never before been officially communicated to the country, gave to
the Message even more than an ordinary degree of interest.

After alluding to the death of General TAYLOR, the Message briefly sets forth the President's
political principles and his views as to the proper policy of the government. In its foreign
relations he would have the country regard the independent rights of all nations without interference,
take no part in their internal strifes, and sympathize with, though it can not aid, the oppressed
who are struggling for freedom. To maintain strict neutrality, reciprocate every generous act,
and observe treaties, is the extent of our obligations and powers. In regard to our domestic
policy, the President says he has no guide but the Constitution as interpreted by the courts,
and by usage and general acquiescence. All its parts are equally binding, and no necessity
can justify the assumption of powers not granted. The powers granted are as clearly expressed
as the imperfections of human language will allow, and he deems it his duty not to question
its wisdom, add to its provisions, evade its requirements, or multiply its commands. Beyond
this he will not attempt to control or influence the proceedings of Congress. Mr. FILLMORE
says that Congress and the country may rest assured that, to the utmost of his ability, and
to the extent of the powers vested in him, he will, at all times and in all places, take care
that the laws be faithfully executed.

The President says he shall endeavor to exercise the appointing power so as to elevate the
standard of official employment and advance the prosperity and happiness of the people.

No unfavorable change has taken place in our foreign relations. It is hoped that the guarantees
of the treaty between the United States and Great Britain will be sufficient to secure the
early completion of the work. Some further stipulations from Mexico are still needed, however,
to impart a feeling of security to those who may embark in the enterprise. Negotiations to
secure them are now in progress. A proposition made by the government of Portugal to adjust
and settle the claims of the United States against that government, has been accepted by the
United States; and it is expected that a regular convention will be immediately negotiated
for carrying the agreement into effect. The commissioner appointed under an act of Congress
to carry into effect the Convention with Brazil, of January 27, 1849, has entered upon the
performance of his duties: an extension of time, however, will be required, in consequence
of the failure to receive documents which the government of Brazil is to furnish.

The total receipts into the Treasury for the year ending June 30, 1850, were $47,421,748: expenditures
during the same period $43,002,168. The public debt has been reduced $495,276. Part of the
public debt amounting to $8,075,986 must be provided for within the next two years. The establishment
of a mint in California is recommended, and also of an agricultural bureau at Washington. The
attention of Congress is called to the importance of opening a line of communication between
the Valley of the Mississippi and the Pacific. Further provision is required to protect our
frontiers from hostile Indians. The navy continues in a high state of efficiency. The report
of the Postmaster General is referred to for the condition of that department.

The Message closes by expressing the President's views in regard to the Compromise measures
of the last session. He believes those measures to have been required by the circumstances
and condition of the country. Most of these subjects, indeed, are placed by them beyond the
reach of legislation.

The annual Reports from the several departments were transmitted to Congress with the Message.
They state in detail, as usual, the condition of the public service in each department of the
government. We can only make room, of course, for a condensed summary of their contents.

The Report of Mr. CONRAD, Secretary of war, is brief and clearly written. The whole number
of men at present enrolled in the U. S. Army is 12,326, including officers. Of these, 7796
are under orders for Texas, New Mexico, California, and Oregon, thus leaving but 4530 in all
the rest of the States and Territories. The Secretary, in view of the recent alarming incursions
of the Indians, on the borders of Texas and New Mexico, urges an addition to the military establishment
of the country. A history is given of the operations of infantry in New Mexico since last August.
Mr. Conrad expresses the opinion, that the only description of troops to put an end to these
savage forays, is cavalry. He says the Indians in that part of the country are excellent horsemen,
and well skilled in the art of war. To extirpate them, he calls upon Congress to raise one
or more regiments of mounted men. In this connection, moreover, he thinks that if the inhabitants
of New Mexico were organized into a kind of protective militia of their own, much would be
done to preserve the lives and property of those Territories, independently of Government relief.
At all events the experiment, he says, is worth trying. The operations of that portion of the
army employed in Oregon are next recapitulated, as are also those engaged in the recent troubles
with the Indians in Florida. The Secretary entertains no apprehension of any farther disturbance
there. A large portion of the troops are withdrawn from the State, but sufficient are left
to meet any emergency which may possibly arise. The number of the Indians there, we are told,
is very small, probably not more than one hundred, who, however, occasion annoyance to the
whites; and these the most efficient measures will be taken to remove. It is recommended that
a small force be sent against the Sioux tribe of Indians, in order to compel obedience to the
Chippewa treaty, which they have broken, and which the United States is bound to see respected.
He also refers to the reports of the officers appointed to examine the Pacific Coasts of the
United States, in order to select suitable sites for fortifications and naval depots there.
Captain Stansbury's Expedition to the Great Salt Lake, the Secretary says, is understood to
be completed, and a report of his operations is supposed to be now on its way home. Other Expeditions,
similar to this, are also referred to. The Secretary renews the recommendation of his predecessor
for the formation of a retired list of officers of the Army. An asylum for disabled and destitute
soldiers is also urged upon the attention of Congress. The financial estimates for this Department,
for the ensuing year, do not appear quite so favorable as could be wished. The sum required
for the next fiscal year will considerably exceed the aggregate for the current year--an increase
caused, among other things, by the act of last Congress increasing the rank and file of all
the companies serving on the Western frontier--paying nearly double all the officers and men
in California and Oregon--and by increased expenditures in the Quartermaster's department.
The Secretary points out several departments of the service where principles of economy may
be introduced to advantage, and to them he calls the earnest and immediate attention of Congress.

The Report of Mr. GRAHAM, Secretary of the Navy, is also brief, and gives an account of the
six different squadrons into which the naval force in commission is divided. The Secretary
remarks that occasional instances of British interference with vessels bearing our flag on
the African coast have occurred, but that in each case explanations and apologies have been
made to our officers on that station, and the reports thereof transmitted to the Government.
The existing personnel of the Navy embraces 68 captains, 97 commanders, 327 lieutenants, 111
surgeons, 43 assistant surgeons, 64 pursers, 24 chaplains, 12 professors of mathematics, 11
masters in the line of promotion, 464 passed and other midshipmen, and 7500 petty officers,
seamen, landsmen, boys, etc. The Secretary says that this system of officers is unshapely and
disproportioned, there being great disparity between the head and the subordinate parts, and
he recommends a great reduction in the three highest grades. The report discusses other questions
respecting the organization and distribution of the service. The Secretary notices the improvements
going on in the Navy Yards in New York and other places; states that he has invited proposals
for the construction of a Dry Dock in the Pacific; says that the stores on hand in the various
yards amount to $6,500,000. A reduction of the number of yards is discussed. The Secretary
says that our flag has been respected on every sea, and that the interests of commerce have
been secure under its protection. The Navy consists of 7 ships of the line, 1 razee, 12 frigates,
21 sloops of war, 4 brigs, 2 schooners, 6 steam frigates, 3 steamers of the first class, 6
steamers of less than first class, and 5 store ships. The ships in commission are one razee,
6 frigates, 15 sloops of war, 4 brigs, 2 schooners (coast survey), 2 steam frigates, 1 steamer
of the first class, 3 less than first class, 3 ships of the line as receiving ships, 1 steamer
do., and one sloop do. Four ships of the line and two frigates are on the stocks in process
of construction, but the work suspended. Besides these, there are the mail steamships on the
New York and Liverpool and New York and Chagres lines, liable to naval duty in case of necessity.

The Report of Mr. HALL, the Postmaster General, gives a gratifying picture of the operations
of the Post Office Department. The number of mail routes within the United States at the close
of the fiscal year in June last, not including California and Oregon, was 5590: the aggregate
length of such routes was 178,672 miles, and the number of contractors employed thereon, 4,760.
The annual transportation of the mails on these routes was 46,541,423 miles, at an annual cost
of $2,724,436, making the average cost about five cents and eight and a half mills per mile.
The increase in the number of inland mail routes during the year was 649; the increase in the
length of mail routes was 10,969 miles; and the annual transportation of the year exceeded
that of the previous year by 3,997,354 miles, at an increased cost of $342,440. There were,
on the 30th of June last, five foreign mail routes, of the aggregate length of 15,079 miles,
and the annual price of the transportation thereon, payable by this Department, was $264,506;
being an increase of $8814 on the cost of the preceding year. The increase of our mail service
for the last fiscal year, over the year preceding, was about 9.4 per cent., and the increase
in the total cost was about 12.7 per cent. The number of Postmasters appointed during the year
ending June 30, 1850, was 6518. Of that number 2600 were appointed to fill vacancies occasioned
by resignations; 233 to fill vacancies occasioned by the decease of the previous incumbents;
562 on a change of the sites of the offices for which they were appointed; 1444 on the removal
of their predecessors, and 1979 were appointed on the establishment of new offices. The whole
number of post offices in the United States at the end of that year was 18,417. There were
1679 post offices established, and 309 discontinued during the year.

The gross revenue of the Department for the year was as follows:

   From letter postage, including foreign postage,
       and stamps sold                             $4,575,663 86
   From newspapers and pamphlets                      919,485 94
   From fines                                              38 00
   From miscellaneous items                             3,048 66
   From receipts on acc't of dead letters               1,748 40
                                                  --------------
                                                   $5,499,984 86
   Appropriation for franked matter                   200,000 00
                                                  --------------
       Total                                       $5,699,984 86

   From this sum should be deducted the
     amount received during the year for
     British postages, which are payable to
     that Government, under the postal convention
     of December, 1848                                147,013 38
                                                  --------------
   Leaving for the gross revenue of the year       $5,552,971 48
   Total expenditures                               5,212,953 43
                                                  --------------
   Excess of receipts                                $340,018 05

The expenditures of the current year are estimated at $6,019,809, the increase consisting in
the additional service provided for, and in the increased rates sometimes paid on the new contracts.
No reliable estimate of receipts from postage for the year can be made. The increase for the
year ending June 30, 1847, was 11.27 per cent.; that for the year ending June 30, 1848, only
7.43 per cent.; and that for the year ending June 30, 1849, 14.20 per cent.; being an average,
for the three years, of 10.96 per cent.; and the increase for the year ending June 30, 1850,
excluding the balance in favor of Great Britain was 14.62 per cent. It is believed that the
increase for the current year will be at least 11 per cent. over the receipts of last year:
and this will give an aggregate revenue of $6,166,616, an excess of $146,807 over the estimated
expenditures. The conveyance of foreign correspondence has become an important branch of the
service. The means provided are 16 large steamships in actual service, with four more to be
added under existing contracts. Efforts are in progress to arrange with foreign countries for
the interchange of mails and for the uninterrupted transit of our correspondence in the mails
of those countries to the countries beyond. The mail service in California and Oregon is still
in an unsettled state: some suggestions are made for improving its details. The Postmaster
General recommends a considerable reduction in the rates of postage: he advises that the inland
letter postage be reduced to three cents, the single letter, when pre-paid, and be fixed at
the uniform rate of five cents when not pre-paid; and also, that the Postmaster General be
required to reduce this pre-paid rate to two cents the single letter, whenever it shall be
ascertained that the revenues of the Department, after the reductions now recommended, shall
have exceeded its expenditures by more than five per cent. for two consecutive fiscal years.
He also recommends that twenty cents the single letter, be charged on all correspondence to
and from the Pacific coast, South America, the Eastern Continent and its islands, and points
beyond either, and ten cents the single letter on all other sea-going letters, without the
superaddition of inland postage; and that the provision which imposes an additional half cent
postage upon newspapers, sent more than one hundred miles, and out of the State where they
are mailed, be repealed, so as to leave the uniform inland postage on newspapers, sent to subscribers,
from the office of publication, at one cent each. The postage upon pamphlets, periodicals,
and other printed matter (except newspapers), Mr. HALL thinks, may be simplified and somewhat
reduced, with advantage to the Department. Two cents for the pamphlet or periodical of the
weight of two ounces or less, and one cent for every additional ounce or fraction of an ounce,
is recommended as the inland rate upon all pamphlets, periodicals, and other printed matter;
instead of the present rate of two and a half cents for the first ounce, and one cent for every
additional ounce, or fraction of an ounce. For the sea-going charge on such matters, and on
newspapers, twice the inland rate to and from the points to which it is proposed that the letter
postage shall be ten cents, and four times the inland rate where the letter rate is twenty
cents, is deemed a just and proper rate. The reductions recommended on printed matter are considerably
less than those upon letters: and the reason of this is found in the fact that the rates of
postage upon printed matter are now exceedingly low, when compared with the letter rates. The
average postage on letters is estimated at about three dollars and sixteen cents per pound,
and on newspapers or pamphlets at about sixteen cents per pound. After the reductions proposed,
the average inland postage on letters will be about $2 50 per pound when not prepaid, and $1
50 per pound when pre-paid.

The reduction recommended will probably reduce the revenue of the Department for the first
three or four years; but at the end of that period its revenues under the reduced rates will
probably again equal its expenditures. To meet the temporary deficiency, additional appropriations
from the Treasury will probably be required unless Congress should abolish the franking privilege,
which is held to be the privilege of the constituent rather than of the representative. It
is recommended, however, that if the franking privilege, and the privilege now accorded to
newspaper proprietors of receiving exchange newspapers free of postage, be continued, the expense
be paid out of the public Treasury. The present laws provide for a semi-monthly mail from New
York and New Orleans to Chagres, and for only a monthly mail from that point to San Francisco.
The defect has been partially supplied by an arrangement with the mail contractors, but the
action of Congress on the subject is still required.

The report of Mr. STUART, Secretary of the Department of the Interior, presents a variety of
interesting information concerning the various subjects which come under his supervision. The
expenses of the department for the year have been $5,403,372; those for the next year are estimated
at $7,132,043. The report enters at some length into an explanation of the various items of
this increase. The whole number of persons on the pension rolls of the United States is 19,758;
the whole number who have drawn pensions during the first two quarters of the present year
is 13,079. The whole amount expended for pensions during the year is estimated at $1,400,000.
The number of land warrants issued for Revolutionary service is 12,588; and for the war of
1812, 28,978. The number of claims presented for service in the Mexican war is 81,373, and
for scrip in lieu of land, 3332, making a total of 84,705. The number of claimants under the
general Bounty Land Law of the last session of Congress is estimated at 250,000. The sales
of Public Lands during the first three quarters of 1850 have amounted to 869,082 acres; the
amount sold in 1849 was 1,329,902. The amount located by Mexican bounty land warrants during
three quarters of the present year was 1,520,120, against 3,405,520, during the whole of last
year. The aggregate amount disposed of in three quarters of 1850 was 2,815,366--in 1849 it
was 5,184,410. The revenue derived from the sale of public lands has averaged about a million
and a quarter of dollars per annum, for the last fifty years, above all expenses. The extension
of our Land System over our possessions on the Pacific is strongly urged; and a commission
is suggested to adjudicate on all questions of disputed titles to land in California. Mr. STUART
recommends the sale of the mineral lands, in fee simple to the highest bidder at public auction--in
lots small enough to afford persons in moderate circumstances the opportunity of being bidders.
The annexation of Texas and our treaty with Mexico, have added about 124,000 Indians to our
population; many of them are fierce in their disposition and predatory in their habits. Further
legislation for the protection of our people from them has become necessary. The Secretary
urges the necessity of a highway to the Pacific; whether a railway, a plank road, or a turnpike
would be most expedient, he says, can only be determined after a careful survey of the country
and its resources shall have been made. He suggests the propriety of authorizing an immediate
survey. The establishment of an Agricultural Bureau is urged, and statements are made of the
steps taken in securing the census returns.

Several of the State Legislatures are now in session, or have been during the past month. In
several of them action has been taken upon the general question of Slavery. In VERMONT a bill
was passed for the protection of persons who may be claimed within that state as fugitive slaves.
This bill provides (1.) That it shall be the duty of the State's attorneys within the several
counties "to use all lawful means to protect, defend, and cause to be discharged" every person
arrested or claimed as a fugitive slave; (2.) The application of any State's attorney in due
form shall be sufficient authority for any one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or any Circuit
Judge, to authorize the issuing a writ of habeas corpus, which shall be made returnable to
the supreme or county court when in session, and in vacation before any of the judges aforesaid;
(3.) That it shall be the duty of all judicial and executive officers in the State, whenever
they shall have reason to believe that any inhabitant of the State is about to be arrested
as a fugitive slave, to give notice thereof to the State's attorneys in their respective counties;
(4.) That whenever the writ of habeas corpus is granted in vacation, if upon the hearing of
the same before any of the judges, the person arrested and claimed as a fugitive slave shall
not be discharged, he shall be entitled to an appeal to the next stated term of the county
court, on furnishing such bail and within such time as the judge granting the writ shall deem
reasonable and proper; (5.) That the court to which such appeal is taken, or any other court
to which a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of any such alleged fugitive slave is made returnable,
shall, on application, allow and direct a trial by jury on all questions of fact in issue between
the parties, and the costs thereof shall be chargeable to the State. The bill passed both branches
of the Legislature with very little discussion, and was approved by the Governor, Nov. 13, 1850.

The VIRGINIA Legislature assembled on the 2d of December. The Message of Governor FLOYD closes
with some emphatic comments on the Compromise measures of Congress. The action of the last
session on the subject, the Governor says, has placed the Union in the most momentous and difficult
crisis through which it has ever passed. Some of its enactments have produced a feeling of
deep and bitter dissatisfaction at the South; while the law for the recovery of fugitive slaves
has been met with a reception at the North little, if at all, short of open rebellion and utter
defiance. This state of things, the Governor says, has grown out of an "unwarrantable interference
on the part of Congress with the subject of slavery, and is another proof of the great danger
which must ever follow any attempt on the part of that body to transcend the clear, well-defined
limits set by the Constitution to govern and control their action." The action of Congress,
it is held, has been grossly injurious to the South, for of the whole domain acquired from
Mexico, not a foot is left, worth having, for the occupation of the slaveholder. Nothing ought
to reconcile the South to this action, but the hope that it may settle forever all agitation
of the question of slavery. But if peace and quiet can be thereby restored, if the Constitution
can be respected and the Union maintained, these sacrifices, great as they are, may well be
regarded as light in comparison with the objects attained. But should this expectation prove
fallacious, and the slavery agitation be renewed, it will furnish, the Governor says, "proof,
convincing and conclusive, of that fixed and settled hostility to slavery on the part of the
North which should and will satisfy every reasonable man that peace between us is impossible;
and then a necessity stronger than all law, the necessity of self-preservation, will demand
at our hands a separation from those who use the relationship of brotherhood only for the purpose
of inflicting upon us the worst acts of malignant hostility." The supineness of the South upon
this subject is very warmly censured, and the hostility evinced in the Northern States toward
the fugitive slave law is referred to as among the indications that peace and harmony have
not been restored. Virginia, and all the slaveholding states, he thinks, "can and ought, calmly
and explicitly to declare that the repeal of the fugitive slave law, or any essential modification
of it, is a virtual repeal of the Union. The faithful execution of the law is the only means
now left by which the Union can be preserved with honor to ourselves and peace to the country.
Such a declaration on the part of the South will give strength and great moral weight to the
conservative patriots at the North, now struggling for the Constitution and the supremacy of
the laws, who are, in truth, fighting the battle of the Union, in the bosom of the non-slaveholding
States. If, however, no consideration of prudence or patriotism can restrain the majority from
the non-slaveholding States in their headlong career of usurpation and wrong, and should they
repeal or essentially modify the fugitive slave law, the most prompt and decisive action 'will
be required at your hands'. In either event, I would earnestly recommend that a Convention
of the people be called at once to take into consideration the mode and measure of redress,
as well as the means of providing for our future security and peace."

The Governor of ARKANSAS, in his Message to the Legislature of that State, objects to the admission
of California, but contends that the evil can not be cured, and must be endured. He asks, "what
could the South gain by resistance?" He also objects to President Fillmore's Message concerning
Texas. But, with regard to the fugitive slave law, he contends, if the North touch it, the
"South can no longer, with honor to herself, maintain her present relations with the North."

In MISSISSIPPI the Legislature convened in extra session on the 18th November, under a proclamation
issued by Governor QUITMAN, to take into consideration the course to be pursued by the State
in view of the recent measures of Congress. On the first day of the session the Governor sent
in a Message giving a history of the aggressions of the North, and recommending secession from
the Union. He says, "let the propositions be distinctly put to the non-slaveholding States
that the wrongs of the South must be redressed, so far as it is in the power of Congress to
do so, by obtaining from California a concession of territory south of 36° 30'; otherwise that
they (the non-slaveholding States) must consent to such amendments of the Constitution as shall
hereafter secure the rights of the slaveholding States from further aggression. But, in the
event of continued refusal to do so, I hesitate not to express my decided opinion that the
only effectual remedy for the evil, which must continue to grow from year to year, is to be
found in prompt and peaceable secession from the aggressive States."

In GEORGIA, the State Convention, summoned to consider the best means of securing Southern
rights and interests, assembled at Milledgeville, on the 11th of December. At the election
of delegates to this Convention, the issue made was between those in favor of disunion, and
those opposed to it. The result showed a popular majority of about 30,000 in favor of the Union;
in seven counties only of the whole State, had the disunionists popular majorities.

The Legislature of TEXAS met at Austin, November 18th, and Governor BELL immediately sent in
his Message. He states that he anticipated the passage of the boundary bill by Congress, but
regrets that Congress was no more specific in defining the mode of ascertaining and making
known at the Federal treasury the amount of debt for which the five millions of stock are to
be retained. He considers that the creditors of Texas must look to her alone, and not to the
United States, for the settlement of her claims. In regard to the bonds issued by the late
republic for double the amount of the original contracts, he thinks that between private individuals
such would be void on account of usury. He, however, recommends that government should certainly
pay to its creditors the full amount of benefits received, and interest on the amount from
the time when it should have been paid. He also recommends that a law be passed, requiring
all creditors holding claims against the late Republic of Texas, and for which revenues arising
from import duties were specially pledged, to file releases in favor of the United States in
respect to said claims, with the Comptroller of the State within a specified time; and in default
thereof, their claims against the United States for the liability of the said debts, growing
out of transfer of revenue, under the articles of annexation, shall be considered as waived
from Mexico. On the 22d, a bill to accept the propositions of the boundary bill, was passed
in both Houses, there being in the Senate but one, and in the House but five votes against
it.--The party engaged in the survey of the Upper Rio Grande have reported that forty miles
above Laredo is, and will continue to be, the head of steamboat navigation.

The Legislature of SOUTH CAROLINA met in special session on the 3d of December, and the Message
of Governor SEABROOK was received on the same day. The Governor says that during the year he
has purchased largely of muskets and rifles, and caused several thousand musket accoutrements
to be manufactured at Columbia. He wishes the Legislature to authorize him to purchase eighteen
brass field-pieces, to establish foundries for cannon and small-arms. He complains of the North
on account of the incendiary resolutions of State Legislatures; the sweeping denunciations
emanating from abolition associations; the bitter and vindictive feelings of the press, the
bar, and the pulpit: the inflammatory harangues to popular meetings; the encouragement and
aid given to runaway slaves, &c., which unwarrantable proceedings have caused South Carolina,
for about one-third of her political existence, to present an almost uninterrupted scene of
disquietude and excitement. He says that "the time has arrived to resume the exercise of the
powers of self-protection, which, in the hour of unsuspecting confidence, we surrendered to
foreign hands. We must reorganize our political system on some surer and safer basis. There
is no power, moral or physical, that can prevent it. The event is indissolubly linked with
its cause, and fixed as destiny." Resolutions had been introduced into the Legislature upon
these subjects, but no action has been had upon them.

The Legislature of FLORIDA met on the 25th of November, and the Governor's Message was at once
delivered. Gov. BROWN, though a strong friend of the Union, expresses serious concern for the
perpetuity of the Union, in consequence of the manifestations of Northern sentiment on their
obligations under the Federal compact. He asks from the Legislature authority to call a convention
of the people of the State, in the event of the repeal of the fugitive slave bill, or the consummation
of any other aggressive measure.

The Nashville Convention adjourned on the 18th of November. Resolutions were passed expressing
attachment to a constitutional Union, but declaring the right of any State to secede; expressing
also the conviction that "the evils anticipated by the South, in forming this Convention had
been realized, in the passage of the recent compromise acts of Congress. They further recommended
to the South, not to go into any National Convention for the nomination of President and Vice-President
of the United States, until the constitutional rights of the South were secured. They also
recommended to the slaveholding States to go into convention, with a view to the restraint
of further aggression, and if possible, to the restoration of the rights of the South. The
Tennessee delegation protested against the adoption of the resolutions, declaring the proceeding
to be "unhallowed and unworthy of Southern men."

Large public meetings have been held in various sections of the country in favor of the Union
and of the Compromise measures of the last session of Congress. One was held at Philadelphia
on the 21st of November, attended by six or seven thousand people, and numbering among its
officers some of the most respectable citizens of Philadelphia. Hon. John Sargeant presided,
and speeches were made by Messrs. Dallas, J. R. Ingersoll, Rush, Randall, and others. Letters
were received from the Hon. Messrs. Clay, Webster, Cass, and other gentlemen of distinction,
who were unable to be present. Mr. Randall, in his remarks, said, that the general impression,
that the clause in the Constitution requiring the return of fugitive slaves was the result
of a compromise, was erroneous: the records of the Convention would show that it was adopted
unanimously, and without amendment. Resolutions expressive of strong attachment to the Constitution,
of obligation to abide by its provisions, of determination to maintain the supremacy of the
laws, of disapprobation of anti-slavery agitation, and of approval of the Compromise measures,
were adopted with much applause.

A very large meeting of a similar character was held at Boston, on the 26th, in Faneuil Hall.
Dr. J. C. Warren, a descendant of General Warren, who fell at Bunker's Hill, presided, and
on taking the chair made an eloquent and patriotic speech. Resolutions were adopted, asserting
that the preservation of the Constitution and Union is the paramount duty of all classes; that
the blessings flowing from the Constitution vastly transcend in importance all other political
considerations; that the laws of the land are equally binding on every State, and upon all
citizens, and no one can refuse, or seem to refuse to obey them; that the measures of compromise
passed by the last Congress ought to be carried out by the people; that resistance to law is
mischievous, and that all who advise those who may be the subject of any law, to resist, deserve
the opprobrium of the community, and the severe penalty of the law; that at all times, and
in all places, the citizens of Boston will sustain the Union, uphold the Constitution, and
enforce obedience to the law. Speeches were made by B. R. Curtis, Esq., Hon. B. F. Hallett,
and Hon. Rufus Choate, which were received with enthusiastic applause.

A Union meeting was held at Nashville, Tennessee, on the 23d, which was characterized by unanimity
and great enthusiasm. The speakers were, Hon. Andrew Ewing, and Hon. A. J. Donaldson. Resolutions
were passed declaring that no State has the constitutional right to secede, and that any such
attempt would be revolutionary, and its consequences entail civil strife and bloodshed; that
the continual agitation of the slavery issue, will, if persisted in, lead to the total alienation
of one section of the Union from the other; that the people of the States have the right, whenever
palpably, intolerably, and unconstitutionally oppressed, to throw off the chains that oppress
them, but there is no present necessity for the exercise of this right that an attempt to repeal,
or failure to enforce the fugitive slave law, will unite all the South, and most probably end
in a total separation of the States; and that the Compromise measures of Congress meet their
approbation, as the best that, under the circumstances, could be adopted, and they pledge themselves
to give them hearty support.

A Union meeting was held at Staunton, Virginia, on the 25th of November, over which Col. JAMES
CRAWFORD presided. Resolutions were adopted declaring the readiness of those assembled to meet
all good citizens of every section, and of every party, on the platform of the Constitution,
the Compromise, and the Union; and also expressing the belief that the maintenance of the Compromise
in all its parts, without modification or amendment, is essential to the preservation of the
Union. Letters were read from a number of distinguished gentlemen who had been invited, but
were unable to be present.

A large meeting was held at Manchester, N. H., on the 20th of November, at which resolutions
were passed expressing devotion to the Union, and a determination to stand by the Compromise
measures, and to resist all further agitation of the subject.

A large Union meeting was held in Cincinnati, on the 14th of November, at which resolutions
were adopted declaring their approval of, and determination to support, the measures of peace
and compromise relative to the admission of California as a State; the establishment of the
Territorial Governments of New Mexico and Utah; the settlement of the boundary question of
Texas; the abolition of the slave trade in the district of Columbia; and the provision the
more effectually to secure the observance of the constitutional duty to deliver up fugitives
owing service or labor. They also declared that they condemned, and would oppose all forcible
resistance to the execution of the law of the General Government for the re-capture of fugitives
owing service or labor; that they regard such law as constitutional--in accordance with the
compromise which formed the Union, and that they would sustain and enforce it by all proper
and legal means, as a matter of constitutional compromise and obligation. And furthermore they
declared that any effort to re-open the delicate and distracting questions settled and compromised
by the Compromise and Peace measures passed during the late session of Congress are factious,
and should be disapproved and opposed.

During the past month letters and speeches, upon the engrossing topic of the day, from some
of the most eminent men in the country, have been given to the public, and have attracted a
good deal of attention. They have been mainly on the side of the Compromise measures of the
last session of Congress; as the agitation upon the other side, in the Northern States at least,
has for the present almost wholly ceased. A speech of very marked and characteristic ability
was made by the Hon. RUFUS CHOATE, at the Faneuil Hall Union meeting in Boston. Mr. C. thought
that the union of these States was in manifest peril, mainly from a public opinion created
by restless and unprincipled men. He traced, with great skill and in very graphic and eloquent
language, the manner in which public opinion is moulded by the unceasing efforts of the press
and the orator, and that it is only by a prolonged and voluntary educational process that the
fine and strong spirit of nationality is made to penetrate the great mass of the people, and
the full tide of American feeling to fill the mighty heart. He then depicted the manner in
which hostility of sentiment and sympathy between different sections of the country has been
created and is kept alive. Coming, then, to the means by which danger to the Union can be best
averted, he said the first and foremost thing to be done was to accept that whole body of measures
of Compromise, by which the Government has sought to compose the country, and then for every
man to set himself to suppress the further political agitation of this whole subject. These
measures were then referred to, one after the other, and the essential justice and expediency
of each were declared. The two great political parties of the North, he said, ought at once
to strike this whole subject from their respective issues. He was not for any amalgamation
of parties, or for the formation of any new one: the two great parties had united for the settlement
of this great question, and they could now revive the old creeds, return to their old positions,
and so spare America that last calamity, the formation of parties according to geographical
lines. The conscience of the community, moreover, is bound to discourage and modify the further
agitation of the subject of slavery, in the spirit in which, thus far, that agitation has been
carried on. It is a great error to suppose that conscience or philanthropy requires the constant
agitation of this topic. We of the North have nothing whatever to do with slavery in the Southern
States, for we have solemnly covenanted with them that we will not interfere with it, and that
we will perform certain duties growing out of it. Those duties are obligatory upon us, and
no pretense of a higher law can absolve us from them. These positions were presented by Mr.
Choate with all his accustomed strength, and with even more than the warmth of feeling and
profusion of illustration which distinguish all his efforts.

Mr. WEBSTER wrote a letter in reply to an invitation to attend the great Union meeting at Staunton,
Va., approving most heartily of the objects of the proposed meeting, and assuring them, of
his hearty sympathy and his unchangeable purpose to co-operate with them and other good men
in upholding the honor of the States, and the Constitution of the Government. Political martyrdom,
he declares, would be preferable to beholding the voluntary dismemberment of this glorious
Republic. "It is better to die while the honor of the country is untarnished, and the flag
of the Union still flying over our heads, than to live to behold that honor gone forever, and
that flag prostrate in the dust." He assures them, from personal observation at the North,
that through the masses of the Northern people the general feeling and the great cry is, for
the Union, and for its preservation: and, "while there prevails a general purpose to maintain
the Union as it is, that purpose embraces, as its just and necessary means, a firm resolution
of supporting the rights of all the States, precisely as they stand guaranteed and secured
by the Constitution. And you may depend upon it," he adds, "that every provision in that instrument
in favor of the rights of Virginia and the other Southern States, and every constitutional
act of Congress, passed to uphold and enforce those rights, will be upheld and maintained not
only by the power of the law, but also by the prevailing influence of public opinion. Accidents
may occur to defeat the execution of a law in a particular instance; misguided men may, it
is possible, sometimes enable others to elude the claims of justice and the rights founded
in solemn constitutional compact, but, on the whole, and in the end, the law will be executed
and obeyed; the South will see that there is principle and patriotism, good sense and honesty,
in the general minds of the North; and that among the great mass of intelligent citizens in
that quarter, the general disposition to ask for justice is not stronger than the disposition
to grant it to others." Mr. WEBSTER closes his letter by urging the people of Virginia to teach
their young men to study the early history of the country, the feebleness of the Confederation--and
to trace the steps, the votes, the efforts, and the labor by which the present Constitution
was formed. He exhorts them to stand by their country, to stand by the work of their fathers,
to stand by the Union of the States, "and may Almighty God prosper all our efforts in the cause
of liberty, and in the cause of that United Government which renders this people the happiest
people upon which the sun ever shone!"

Hon. A. H. H. STUART, Secretary of the Interior, wrote a letter also on the same occasion in
reply to a similar invitation. He expresses great satisfaction that meetings in behalf of the
Union are held throughout the country. He says he believes that the integrity of the Union,
and the peace of the country, will mainly depend on the course which the people of Virginia
may adopt in the present crisis. There has been a melancholy change in the feelings of the
people toward the Union, he thinks, within a few years past. Then, nothing but his advanced
age, the respect felt for his character, and the strongest professions of attachment to the
Union, prevented John Quincy Adams from public censure or expulsion for simply presenting a
petition to Congress for a dissolution of the Union. Now, dissolution is openly advocated in
speeches, pamphlets, and the newspaper press. Let the idea go abroad that Virginia sanctions
such sentiments as these, and our Union is but a rope of sand. The only safe reliance, Mr.
Stuart thinks, is for Virginia to assume her old position of mediator and pacificator. "Let
her speak in language that can not be misunderstood. Let her blend kindness with firmness.
But let no lingering doubt remain as to her loyalty to the Union." Twenty years ago, when the
Union was in danger, General Jackson declared that it must be preserved. General Jackson slumbers
in his grave, and there are men plotting disunion over his very ashes. But Mr. Stuart assures
those to whom he writes, that we have a man at the head of the Government "not less devoted
to the Union than Jackson, and not less determined to use all the powers vested in him by the
Constitution to maintain it. He justly appreciates his obligations to maintain the integrity
of the Constitution, and to see that the laws are faithfully executed. He will know no distinction
between the North and the South, but will enforce obedience to the laws every where."

Hon. H. W. HILLIARD, Member of Congress from Alabama, has written a letter declining a re-nomination,
and discussing at some length the present condition of public affairs. The events of the past
year, instead of impairing the strength of our political system, have, in his judgment, really
served to demonstrate it. There is a growing conviction in the mind of the whole nation that
the Constitution must be adhered to in its pristine spirit, and that, while it is adhered to,
the republic will endure. He had no fear that the extension of our limits would enfeeble us.
Our progress is the spread of a great family, all bearing with them the law, the traditions,
the sympathies, and the religion of those from whom they sprung. The true way of perpetuating
our Union is by multiplying the means of intercommunication, by making taxes as light as possible,
by reducing postage, multiplying railroads, and bringing the Pacific coast nearer to us by
the early construction of one of those great highways. The scheme of retaliation, lately projected,
of discriminating against the products of other States must be abandoned, and our whole legislation,
State and National, must be guided by a comprehensive, national, and patriotic spirit. "These
States must regard each other as kindred States; the Constitution must be recognized in all
of them as the supreme law; and the acts of Congress, passed in accordance with its provisions,
must be obeyed, and we must fix in our minds and in our hearts the idea that, as we have had
a common origin, we must have a common destiny." The measures of the last session must be regarded
as a final adjustment of the disturbing questions growing out of slavery. Mr. H. exhorts to
a conciliatory and a patriotic spirit. "Let us forbear," he says, "any hostile acts on our
own part. I certainly desire to see in the midst of the great agricultural regions of the South
a varied industry, which shall rival that of the North, and which shall spread over our fertile
plains all the embellishments which wealth and a high civilization can bestow. I desire, too,
to see a direct trade with foreign countries carried on through Southern ports. But I desire
to see all this brought about by the enterprise and the energy of our people, entering into
a bold and generous competition with those of the other States. We should seek to make Alabama
a great and wealthy State; and we can do this by the vigorous development of our resources.
Our fertile soil, our noble streams, our great cotton crop, our exhaustless mineral wealth,
our population intelligent, industrious, enterprising, and religious--these will enable us
to advance with a steady and rapid march in civilization, without resorting to legislative
expedients to tax the products of other States associated with us in a common Government, one
of the great objects of which is, to keep open the channels of intercommunication."

Hon. LEVI WOODBURY wrote a letter expressing regret that he could not attend the Union Meeting
held at Manchester, N. H., on the 20th of November. He says that without more forbearance as
to agitation of the subject of slavery, it is his solemn conviction, the Union will be placed
in fearful jeopardy. He mentions as an alarming sign of the times the fact that any portion
of our law-abiding community should either recommend forcible resistance to the laws, or actually
participate in measures designed to overawe the constituted authorities, and defeat the execution
of legal precepts issued by those authorities. This, he says, is in direct hostility to the
injunctions of Washington in his Farewell Address to his grateful countrymen; and seems no
less hostile and derogatory to every sound principle for sustaining public order and obedience
to what the legislative agents of the people and the States have enacted.

A letter from Mr. WEBSTER, written on the same occasion, also alludes to the disposition which
is abroad to evade the laws, and to resist them so far as it can be done consistently with
personal safety. A "still more extravagant notion," he says, "is sometimes entertained, which
is, that individuals may judge of their rights and duties, under the Constitution and the laws,
by some rule which, according to their idea, is above both the Constitution and the laws."
Both these positions are denounced as at war with all government and with all morality. "It
is time," Mr. Webster adds, "that discord and animosity should cease. It is time that a better
understanding and more friendly sentiments were revived between the North and the South. And
I am sure that all wise and good men will see the propriety of forbearing from renewing agitation
by attempts to repeal the late measures, or any of them. I do not see that they contain unconstitutional
or alarming principles, or that they forebode the infliction of wrong or injury. When real
and actual evil arises, if it shall arise, the laws ought to be amended or repealed; but in
the absence of imminent danger I see no reason at present for renewed controversy or contention."

Mr. CLAY, upon formal invitation of that body, visited the Legislature of Kentucky on the 15th
of November. He was welcomed by the Speaker of the House in some brief and appropriate remarks
to which he responded at considerable length. He spoke mainly of the measures of the session
in which he had borne so conspicuous a part. The session, he said, opened under peculiarly
unfavorable auspices. The sentiment of disunion was openly avowed, and a sectional convention
of delegates had been assembled, the tendency of which was to break up the confederacy. In
common with others, Mr. Clay said he had foreseen the coming storm, and it was the hope that
he might assist in allaying it that led him to return to the Senate. The subject had long engaged
his most anxious thoughts, and the result of his reflections was the series of propositions
which he presented to Congress soon after the opening of the session. A committee of thirteen
was afterward appointed to which the whole matter was referred and they reported substantially
the same measures which he had proposed. At that time he was decidedly in favor of the immediate
admission of California into the Union as a separate and distinct measure; but subsequent observation
of the hostility which it encountered led him to modify his opinions, and unite it with kindred
measures in one common bill. In excluding the Wilmot Proviso, which had previously been the
great aim and object of the South, they obtained a complete triumph--and obtained it, too,
by the liberal, magnanimous and patriotic aid of the northern members. It is true they may
never be able to establish slavery in any of this newly acquired territory; but that is not
the fault of Congress, which has adhered strictly to the policy of non-intervention, but of
the people of the territory themselves to whom the whole subject has been committed. The boundary
of Texas gave rise to by far the most intricate and perplexing question of the Session. Various
opinions were held in regard to it by various interests, and the matter seemed to him eminently
one for compromise and amicable adjustment. We gave what seems a large sum (ten millions of
dollars), to Texas for relinquishing her claim, but half this amount we owed her creditors
for having taken the revenues to which they looked for payment of their debts. Mr. Clay said
he voted the money very cheerfully, because he believed it would be applied to the payment
of her public debt; and he wished that we had some legitimate ground for giving to every debtor
State in the Union money enough to pay all its debts, and restore its credit wherever it has
been tarnished. Of the fugitive slave bill Mr. Clay said simply that its object was simply
to give fair, full, and efficacious effect to the constitutional provision for the surrender
of fugitives. The act abolishing the slave trade in the District of Columbia, was of little
practical importance to southern interests, while it was demanded by every consideration of
humanity and of national self-respect. In looking at the result of the whole, Mr. Clay thought
that neither party, so far as California is concerned, could be said to have lost or gained
any thing, while in regard to the territorial bills and the fugitive slave law the South had
gained all it could reasonably claim. The effect of these measures, Mr. Clay thought, would
be to allay agitation and pacify and harmonize the country. At all events it will greatly circumscribe
the field of agitation: for none of these measures can be opened for renewed action except
the fugitive slave bill; and when the dispute is narrowed down to that single ground the slaveholding
States have decidedly the advantage. The Constitution is with them, the right is with them,
and the State which shall oppose the execution of the law will place itself manifestly in the
wrong. It was not to be expected that these measures would lead to immediate and general acquiescence
on the part of the ultras of either section; but Mr. Clay did confidently anticipate that all
their mad efforts would be put down by the intelligence, the patriotism, and the love of union
of the people of the various States. Mr. Clay went on to draw a picture of the condition of
the country, and especially of the slaveholding States, in the event of a dissolution of the
Union. Under the present law the South will not probably recover all their fugitive slaves;
but they will recover some of them. But in the event of disunion not one could be demanded.
Mr. Clay said he had often been asked when he would consent to a dissolution of the Union.
He answered Never, because he could conceive of no possible contingency that would make it
for the interest and happiness of the people to break up this glorious confederacy. He would
yield to it, if Congress were to usurp a power, which he was sure, it never would, of abolishing
slavery within the States, for in the contingency of such a usurpation we should be in a better
condition as to slavery out of the Union than in it. He believed that the time would come,
at some very distant day, when the density of the population of the United States would be
so great that free labor would be cheaper than slave labor, and that then the slaves would
be set free; and that Africa would be competent to receive, by colonization from America, all
the descendants of its own race. If the agitation of this subject should be continued, it must
lead to the formation of two parties--one for the Union and the other against it. If such a
division should become necessary, he announced himself a member of the Union party what ever
might be its elements. He would go further. "I have had," said he, "great hopes and confidence
in the principles of the Whig party, as being most likely to conduce to the honor, to the prosperity,
and the glory of my country. But if it is to be merged into a contemptible abolition party,
and if abolitionism is to be engrafted on the Whig creed, from that moment I renounce the party,
and cease to be a Whig. I go yet a step further: if I am alive, I will give my humble support
for the Presidency to that man, to whatever party he may belong, who is uncontaminated by fanaticism,
rather than to one who, crying out all the time and aloud that he is a Whig, maintains doctrines
utterly subversive of the Constitution and the Union." Mr. Clay said that the events of the
last few months had thrown together men of opposite parties, and he could say with truth and
pleasure that during the late session he was in conference quite as often, if not oftener,
with Democrats than Whigs; and he "found in the Democratic party quite as much patriotism,
devotion to the Union, honor, and probity as in the other party."

Gen. JAMES HAMILTON has recently addressed a somewhat remarkable letter to the people of South
Carolina upon the state of public affairs and the course which he desires his own State to
pursue. Gen. H. was the Governor of South Carolina during the nullification crisis, and is
fully imbued with the spirit of resistance to the Union. But he is also a man of great practical
sagacity, and after carefully surveying the whole field, he is convinced that action now on
the part of South Carolina would be ruinous to her cause. He has been all through the Southern
States, and says he is satisfied that, in the event of such action, there is not another Southern
State that would join her in it. He sketches the state of feeling in each of the States he
has visited, and represents the Union party as decidedly in the ascendant in every one of them.
He proceeds to say that although some of the recent measures of Congress, and particularly
the admission of California, were exceedingly unjust to the South, yet they afford no justification
for a disruption of the confederacy. Many, he says, believe that in the event of secession
a collision will arise with the Federal Government, and South Carolina would have the sympathy
and the aid of the other Southern States. But he does not believe the Federal Government would
bring on any such collision; he thinks they would only prevent goods from entering their ports,
carry the mail directly past them, and transfer all the commerce which they now enjoy to Savannah.
He thinks South Carolina should await the result of the great battle in the North, between
those who stand up for the rights of the South and their opponents. If the latter prevail and
elect their President two years hence, the fugitive slave law will be repealed, slavery will
be abolished in the District of Columbia, and a crisis will then occur which will inevitably
unite the South. He urges them to await this event. The letter is written with great energy
and eloquence, and will have a wide and marked influence upon public sentiment.

A complimentary public dinner was given to Hon. JOHN M. CLAYTON at Wilmington, on the 16th
of November, by his political friends. Mr. CLAYTON, in reply to a complimentary toast, made
an extended and eloquent speech, mainly in vindication of the administration of Gen. TAYLOR
from the reproach which political opponents had thrown upon it. He showed that in proposing
to admit California as a State, and to organize the territories of New Mexico and Utah as States,
with such constitutions as their inhabitants might see fit to frame, Gen. TAYLOR only followed
the recommendations which had been made by President POLK in 1848, which had been approved
by Mr. CALHOUN in 1847, and which had then received the support of the great body of the political
friends of both those statesmen. And yet his course was most bitterly opposed by the very persons
who had previously approved the same principles. Mr. CLAYTON said he did not believe, and he
never had believed, that there was any danger of disunion from the adoption of General Taylor's
recommendations, and he ridiculed the clamor and the apprehension, that had been aroused upon
the subject. The greatest obstruction both to the President and the country, arose out of the
attempt to embody all the measures on the subject in a single bill; and yet the effort had
been made to throw the blame of its failure upon the President and his Cabinet. His death showed
the groundlessness of the charge, for the omnibus immediately failed. Mr. CLAYTON went on at
considerable length to review the policy, both foreign and domestic, of the late administration,
and to vindicate it from all the slanders and obloquy heaped upon it. He afterward, in response
to a remark nominating General SCOTT as the next candidate for the Presidency, gave a glowing
and eloquent sketch of the life and military career of that eminent soldier.

Hon. JOEL R. POINSETT has written a letter to his fellow-citizens of South Carolina, remonstrating
earnestly against the scheme of secession which they seem inclined to adopt. He vindicates
each of the Compromise measures from the objections urged against it, and insists that there
is no such thing under the Constitution as a right of secession. Such a step could only result
in the injury and ruin of South Carolina, and he therefore earnestly exhorts them not to venture
upon it.

A letter from Hon. RICHARD RUSH, formerly U. S. Minister in France, has also been published,
condemning very severely the anti-slavery agitation of the day, and urging the necessity of
concession and harmony in order to the preservation of the Union.

Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, a member of the British Parliament somewhat celebrated for his oratorical
efforts in England and the United States in behalf of Abolition, is now in this country. Arrangements
had been made by the Anti-Slavery men in Boston to give him a public reception at Faneuil Hall
on his arrival. The meeting on the occasion was very large. Edmund Quincy presided. W. L. Garrison
read an address detailing Mr. Thompson's exertions on behalf of abolition, and mentioning the
facts attending his expulsion from this country fifteen years ago. The latter part of the address
was interrupted by considerable noise, and several speakers who afterward attempted to address
the meeting were not permitted to do so. No violence was attempted, but the meeting was compelled
to disperse. Mr. Thompson has since been lecturing in Boston and other towns of Massachusetts
on various topics not connected with slavery. His audiences have been good and he has been
undisturbed.

We have received intelligence from CALIFORNIA, by the arrival of the regular mail steamers,
to the 1st of November. The cholera had made its appearance at Sacramento City, but had not
been very virulent or destructive. The steamer Sagamore burst her boilers on the 29th of October,
while lying at her wharf at San Francisco, killing ten or fifteen persons and seriously injuring
a number of others.

The admission of California into the Union was celebrated on the 29th of October with great
éclat at San Francisco. An address was delivered by Hon. Nathaniel Bennett, and a splendid
ball was given in the evening.

An official statement shows that from Nov. 12, 1849, to Sept. 30, 1850, the total amount of
bullion cleared from San Francisco was $17,822,877, and the amount received was $2,134,000.
Business in California was very good.

The mines continued to yield satisfactory returns. The gold deposits on the Upper Sacramento
are worked with increased industry and success. Those on the Klamath and its tributaries, which
have been discovered during the past year, prove to be exceedingly productive. Not less than
a thousand persons have been engaged in working them within twenty miles of the mouth of the
river, and their returns are said to average fully an ounce per day. The Klamath river is about
a mile wide at its mouth, which is easy of access, and for forty miles up the stream there
is no interruption to steamboat navigation. The junction of the Salmon river is ninety miles
above. Midway between these points the river travel is impeded by rocks, so that boats can
not pass; but, after leaving these, there is no obstacle up to the Falls at the mouth of Salmon
river. Both here and at the rocks, town sites have been selected. Twenty miles above the Salmon,
the Trinity river comes into the Klamath. The land around these rivers is, with little exception,
favorable to agricultural purposes.

From OREGON we have intelligence to the 25th of October. The rainy season had set in, but not
with much severity. The Oregon Spectator states that emigrants from the Cascade Mountains were
arriving every day, though quite a number were still on the way. It is feared that they will
suffer severely, especially from falling snow, though the government was doing all in its power
for their relief. Quite a number of them intend to winter on the Columbia, between the Cascades
and Dalles, as they find excellent food for their cattle in that section. The amount of wheat
grown in the territory during the past season is estimated at 800,000 bushels.

MEXICO.

We have intelligence from the City of Mexico to November 13th. The question of the Presidency,
it is conceded, is definitely settled in favor of Arista. The financial condition of the Republic
still engages the attention of Congress, which body is yet occupied in arranging the interior
and foreign debt. General Thomas Reguena died on the 13th ultimo, at Guadalajara, and General
Manuel Romero on the 31st, at San Louis Potosi. General Joaquin Rea, living at a village called
Minerva, was, about the same time, murdered by one Felipe Delgado, and a band of scoundrels
under his command. The Siglo announces positively that the Mexican Government has concluded
two contracts with Colonel Ramsey, for the transportation of foreign mails through the Republic.
The Mexican Government will receive $20 for every 100 pounds of correspondence and 20 cents
for every 100 pounds of newspapers. By another contract there is to be communication between
New Orleans and Vera Cruz twice a month, between New York and Vera Cruz, by the way of Havana,
twice a month, and between a Mexican port and San Francisco, once a month. It appears that
at its session of the 18th of July last, the Mexican Geographical and Statistical Society elected
Daniel Webster a corresponding member. The Monitor Republicane learns by letters from New Grenada,
that the Jesuits have been expelled from that country. The Congress of that Republic confirmed
the decree of the Government with great unanimity.

GREAT BRITAIN.

Public attention in England continues to be absorbed by the bitter controversies excited by
the Pope's bull extending his jurisdiction over that kingdom. Immense public meetings have
been held in several of the principal cities of the kingdom, at which the Roman Catholic system
has been unsparingly denounced. The newspaper press, daily and weekly, teems with articles
upon the subject, and pamphlets have been issued by several of the most eminent dignitaries
of both the Catholic and the Established Churches. The Government has been driven to take part
in the war of words, and a letter from the Premier, Lord JOHN RUSSELL, to the Bishop of Durham,
has been published, in which the proceedings of the Pope are severely censured, and contemptuous
expressions are used concerning the ceremonials of the Roman Catholic worship. The newly appointed
Cardinal WISEMAN, has issued an able, elaborate, and temperate "Appeal to the Reason and Good
Feeling of the English People," against the violent clamor by which he and his church have
been assailed. This paper seeks to vindicate the proceeding of the Pope from censure, by showing
that there is nothing in it inconsistent, in any way, with loyalty to the English government,
as the only authority sought to be exercised is spiritual and voluntary. The letter of the
Premier is very closely analyzed, and sharp reference is made to the complaints made by the
Chapter of Westminster, of his assuming the Archiepiscopal title. He proposes a "fair division"
of the two different parts embraced in Westminster proper. One comprises the stately Abbey,
with its adjacent palaces and royal parks: this he does not covet: to it "the duties of the
Dean and Chapter are mainly confined, and they shall range there undisturbed." He looks for
his field of labor to another quarter. "Close under the Abbey of Westminster," he says, "there
lie concealed labyrinths of lanes and courts, and alleys and slums, nests of ignorance, vice,
depravity, and crime, as well as of squalor, wretchedness, and disease; whose atmosphere is
typhus, whose ventilation is cholera; in which swarms a huge and almost countless population,
in great measure, nominally at least, Catholic; haunts of filth, which no sewerage committee
can reach--dark corners, which no lighting board can brighten. This is the part of Westminster
which alone I covet, and which I shall be glad to claim and visit, as a blessed pasture in
which sheep of holy Church are to be tended, in which a bishop's godly work has to be done,
of consoling, converting, and preserving;" and if the wealth of the Abbey is to remain stagnant
and not diffusive, he trusts there will be no jealousy of one who, by whatever name, is willing
to make the latter his care without interfering with the former. The letter is written with
great ability, and is well calculated to make a deep impression. The dignitaries of the English
church have also written various letters upon the subject, all in the same tone, modified only
by the individual temper of the several writers. Large and influential public meetings have
been held at Liverpool, Bristol, and other cities.

The friends of Law Reform in England took advantage of the recent visit of D.D. FIELD, Esq.,
of New York, one of the Commissioners for revising the Code of that State, to revive the general
interest felt in the same subject in England. Mr. FIELD addressed the Law Amendment Society
upon the subject, at its request: his statements were heard with marked attention, and excited
a good deal of interest.

The Chamber of Commerce at Manchester has taken up the promotion of the growth of cotton in
India with much earnestness. The British Government could not be induced, last session of Parliament,
to respond to the wishes of the Chamber, and appoint a commissioner to proceed to India to
inquire into the obstacles which prevented an increased growth of cotton in that country. The
Chamber now entertains the idea of sending a private commission to India. The gentleman to
whom this important and responsible service will be entrusted is Mr. Alexander Mackay, the
author of "The Western World," who is well known in the United States, and whose eminent fitness
for so responsible a mission is universally conceded.

The preparations for the great Exhibition of 1851 are advancing very rapidly. The building
is rapidly going up, some twelve hundred workmen being constantly engaged upon it, and it every
day exhibits some new features. As the commissioners anticipated, the demand for space from
the various English local committees far exceeds all possible accommodation that can be provided
in the building for the English exhibitors. The commissioners have not yet been able to digest
the returns, so as to decide upon the necessary reduction of space to be made in each case,
or to determine upon any principle by which that reduction is to be regulated. All parties
will be accommodated so far as possible. Messrs. Clowes and Spicer, the celebrated printers,
have obtained the contract for printing the Catalogue of the Exhibition. They give a premium
of three thousand pounds for the privilege, and are to pay twopence for every catalogue sold,
for the benefit of the Exhibition. The catalogue will be sold for one shilling. Another catalogue
will be printed in several languages, and sold at an increased price.

A terrible storm swept the coast of Ireland during the month of November. Great damage was
done to shipping, and an emigrant ship, named the Edmond, from Limerick to New York, was lost,
with about a hundred of her passengers.

GERMANY.

The chief centre of political interest at the present moment is GERMANY;--and as the points
out of which the controversy between Prussia and Austria has grown, are somewhat complicated,
a general view of the political character and relations of the German States may be of interest.
After the fall of Napoleon, the States formerly composing the German empire, entered into a
confederation. The parties were Austria and Prussia for their German territories, Denmark for
Holstein, the Netherlands for Luxembourg, and 33 independent States and Free Cities, comprising
a territory of 244,375 square miles, and containing at present 42,000,000 inhabitants. The
principal points agreed to in this Confederation were as follows: That all the members possess
equal rights; they bind themselves for the security of each and all from all foreign attacks;
they guarantee to each the possession of its German territories; any member to be at liberty
to enter into any league or treaty, not endangering the security of the Confederation, or any
of its members, except in case of war declared by the Confederation, when no member can enter
into any separate negotiation or treaty; the members not to make war upon each other, but to
submit all differences to the decision of the Diet, whose final action shall be conclusive.
The affairs of the Confederation to be managed by a Diet, meeting at Frankfort on the Maine,
at which Austria presides, and in which the larger States have respectively two, three, and
four votes, and the smaller one each, the whole number of votes being 70; in ordinary matters
the Diet to be represented by a committee of 17 plenipotentiaries, each of the larger States
having one, and several of the smaller being united in the choice of one. The army of the Confederation
was fixed, in 1830, at 303,484 men, to be furnished by the States in a fixed proportion. The
inconveniences of this cumbrous organization are apparent. One member might be at war with
any power, while the others were at peace: thus the Confederation took no part in the Italian
and Hungarian warfare against Austria, for it guaranteed to her only the possession of her
German possessions, and in Schleswig-Holstein, Bavarian troops were in the service of Denmark,
and Prussian soldiers in that of the Duchies. Then, each State being absolutely independent,
could and did establish custom-houses, and levy tolls and duties upon its own frontier, to
the great disadvantage of commerce. This at last became so intolerable, that a general Customs-union
(Zollverein) was formed, under the auspices of Prussia, by which duties are levied only upon
the common frontier, and the proceeds distributed among the States, in the ratio of their population.
The Customs-union embraces more than four-fifths of Germany, with the exception of Austria.
A strong desire has always prevailed throughout Germany for the construction of a united government,
which should take the place of the petty principalities into which the country is divided.
Thus alone can the German people, having a common origin, speaking a common language, and possessing
common interests, assume that rank in the political world to which their numbers, position,
and civilization entitle them. But this desire on the part of the people, has of course, been
strenuously opposed by the princes, although circumstances have at times induced the Prussian
government to favor the movement, in the expectation of becoming the leading power in the new
State, or rather of Prussianizing all Germany. This question is the true origin of the difficulties
in Schleswig-Holstein, and the present threatening aspect of affairs, growing out of the disputes
in Hesse-Cassel. The Duchy of Holstein is the northernmost State of Germany, lying upon the
Baltic, on which it possesses one or two good seaports. The sovereign is the King of Denmark--not,
however, as such, but as Duke of Holstein. The present King of Denmark is without male heirs,
and upon his demise the crown will pass to the female line. But it is contended that the principle
of the Salic law, excluding females from the right of succession applies to Holstein, in which
case the heir of the Duchy is the Grand-duke of Oldenburg, a German prince. In order to avoid
the separation of Holstein from Denmark, the king issued a patent conforming the succession
in Holstein to that of Denmark. The inhabitants of the Duchy, whose sympathies are with Germany
rather than Denmark, resisted; appointed a provisional Government, and appealed for protection
to Germany. At that time it seemed that one of the many endeavors to establish a strict German
Confederation had succeeded; and it became an object to attach Holstein to this Confederation,
in order to gain the command of the Baltic. Prussia supported the Duchy; Austria and Bavaria
opposed it, as favoring the designs of Prussia. The other states of Europe were opposed to
the separation of Holstein from Denmark, upon the general conservative principle of maintaining
things upon their old footing, as well as from an unwillingness to allow the commerce of the
Baltic to fall wholly under the control of the Zollverein. Meanwhile "the year of revolutions,"
1848, had passed, and, by common consent of all parties, the old Frankfort Diet was held to
be virtually abolished, and delegates were called together to endeavor to construct a new Constitution.
The Hungarian revolt was shaking Austria to its centre, and Prussia, true to her ancient instinct
of aggrandizement, which has raised her from a petty principality to the rank of one of the
Great Powers, took advantage of the compulsory concessions of Austria to her non-German subjects,
to arouse the jealousy of the German states, and almost succeeded in forming a confederation,
with herself at the head. But Russia having thrown her sword into the scale, and decided the
balance against Hungary, Austria had leisure to attend to her German affairs. She soon succeeded
in detaching state after state from the Prussian alliance, and began to insist upon the recognition
of the old Frankfort Diet, which, was supposed to be dead and buried under the ruins of the
two last eventful years. At this juncture, occurred the difficulties in the Electorate of Hesse-Cassel.
The Elector, resisted in his attempt to levy taxes contrary to the constitution he had himself
sanctioned, fled, and demanded the protection of the Diet, which was granted, for that body
was composed of the representatives of the sovereigns, and knew nothing of constitutions. The
Diet ordered the Austrian and Bavarian contingents of the Federal troops to march into the
Electorate and reinstate the Elector. But Prussia, being nearer to the scene of action threw
her own troops into the Electorate; not, however, avowing an intention of supporting the inhabitants
in their opposition, but under the mere pretense of making use of the right of way from one
portion of her territory to the other, between which Hesse-Cassel intervenes. Austria, in the
name of the Diet, demanded that these Prussian troops should be withdrawn from the Electorate,
upon which Prussia at once placed her whole army upon the war-footing. Thus, at the latest
advices, the bodies of troops ready for hostilities, occupy the Electorate, and it is a matter
of absolute uncertainty whether peace or war will ensue. In the mean while a conference had
been held at Warsaw, between Austria, Prussia, and Russia, in which an attempt was made to
settle the affairs of Germany. The decision made by this conference was so decidedly adverse
to Prussia, that Count Brandenburg, the Prussian minister, was so chagrined at the disgrace
of his country, that he fell into a delirious fever, from which he died. Austria alone is at
the present time altogether unequal to a war with Prussia; but it is supposed that Russia will
support Austria in the event of a war. Her reasons for so doing are obvious: if Prussia succeeds
in forming a strong German Confederation, a power will be constituted capable of interposing
an effectual barrier to her designs; whereas Austria is so far subservient to Russia, that
her supremacy in Germany is almost equivalent to Russian control over the west of Europe.

The attitude of Austria and Prussia during the past month has been exceedingly belligerent
and fears have been very generally entertained that war would be the result of the existing
contentions. It seems, however, to be conceded that Austria is desirous of peace and that the
King of Prussia really shares these pacific inclinations; but fears are entertained that the
spirit of the people may have been so thoroughly aroused as to render nugatory any negotiations
for peace which their rulers may conclude. Austria demands the right of passage through Brunswick
of her army, ordered to interfere in the affairs of the Duchies; this Prussia has positively
refused except with guarantees which will not be granted.

The Prussian Chamber met at Berlin on the 21st of November. The speech from the throne was
pronounced by the king in person. He alluded to the commencement and vigorous prosecution of
a railway system, to the extension of postal accommodations, and to the flourishing condition
of commerce and navigation. In reference to his relations with Germany, the king declared his
firm purpose to maintain the position he had taken, and said that he should soon stand more
strongly armed, in its support, than he had been in ancient or modern times. The tone of the
speech was considered warlike, and it had a corresponding effect upon the money market. But
the public mind recovered from this feeling in the course of a day or two.

The public feeling throughout Prussia is described by correspondents as being highly excited.
All classes are said to be desirous of war, and it is even feared that, if the king should
consent to peace, he will not be sustained by his people, but will be driven to abdication
and exile.

It is understood, meantime, that the Russian, English, and French Cabinets are using all their
legitimate influence to prevent an appeal to arms. Some of the minor powers that sought the
protection of Prussia in the Union are by no means satisfied with the turn affairs have taken.
Baden has separated itself entirely from the connection, and declares "that, since Prussia
has abandoned the Union, a mere alliance for protection and mutual representation in the Free
Conference does not answer its expectations. It returns to the full possession of its independence."
The Prussian troops are also entirely recalled from the principality. The Prussian armament
is pressed forward vigorously. The fortresses are being placed in a state of defense; the works
begun at Erfurth last summer are continued, and the inhabitants have begun to lay in stocks
of provisions as if a siege were to be immediately expected. The town contains a strong garrison;
the citadel is stored with provisions for two months, besides a number of live cattle.

FRANCE.

The opening of the Assembly and the Message of the President, have been the principal events
of political interest in France during the past month.

The Message was an able and elaborate presentation of the affairs of France; the President
pledges himself in it, to abide by the requirements of the Constitution, and says that the
great necessity for France is repose and order. The message was received with general favor
by the Assembly and people. Its frankness and its firmness restored confidence and strengthened
the government.

A decree has been issued for increasing the troops on the Rhine frontier by calling into activity
40,000 men of the 78,500 still to be disposed of out of the contingent of 1849. The Minister
of War declares the political movements in Germany to be the cause of this increase.

The Moniteur du Soir having stated that General Cavaignac had declared that, in the event of
Louis Napoleon being re-elected as President of the Republic, he (General Cavaignac), "would
submit with respect to the will of the nation, and place his affections and his sword at the
disposal of the country and its executive representative," General Cavaignac has published
a letter in the journals, in which he denies having ever used language from which it could
be inferred "that he had said, either directly or indirectly, that he was ever disposed to
place his affections and his sword at the service of the person who, after having sworn the
observation of the Constitution of the country, would accept a candidature and an election
which are forbidden by that Constitution."

A letter written by the Duke de Nemours to M. Guizot has excited a good deal of remark, though
it has not been made public. It is said to be a most luminous exposé of the present state of
affairs in France, and that it is calculated to do away in some measure with the favorable
effect produced by the Message. M. Guizot has read it to several of his friends.

TURKEY.

We have intelligence of serious collisions between the Turks and Christians in both Asiatic
and European Turkey. In the former, the religious zeal of the Turks prompts them to fanatical
excesses against the Christian population; in the latter, an obstinate struggle for political
supremacy has already commenced between the respective followers of Christ and Mohammed. The
sultan seems fated soon to be no more than the protector of European Turkey, for Bulgaria has
been already made a principality as little dependent on the Porte as Servia and Bosnia; the
Herzegovina and Albania are evidently aiming at the same privilege. Indeed the present position
of Turkey appears any thing but satisfactory.

The persecution of the Christians in Asiatic Turkey is terrible. On the 18th of October an
attack was to have been made on the Christians at Liwno, and one actually did take place on
the 16th at Aleppo. A body of Turks and Arabs fell upon the Christians during the night, and
a fearful massacre took place. The Greek bishop was among those murdered. The pacha locked
himself up in the fortress, and the troops did not attempt to interfere. At Monasta, a fanatical
dervish, who professed to be inspired, killed a Christian boy of fourteen years of age, and
a certain Guiseppe Thomaso, an Italian emigrant, in the open street.

Accounts from Beyrout of the 4th of November state that for some years past the Turkish government
has been desirous of subjecting the Syrian population to the recruitment system, but so great
was the dissatisfaction the idea caused among the people that it refrained from doing so. At
last, in September, it determined to execute the design, and it began operations. The people
murmured; and bands of armed men, commanded by the Emirs Mohamet and Hassan, of the family
of Harfourch, commonly known as the Emirs of Baalbeck, advanced toward Damascus, but were dispersed
by the Turkish troops. It was believed that, after this, the recruiting would take place quietly,
but the two Emirs reappeared at the beginning of October in the environs of Damascus at the
head of between 3000 and 4000 men. A corps of the regular army, consisting of two battalions
of regular infantry, two squadrons of cavalry, four guns, and 400 irregulars, under Mustapha
Pacha, marched to meet them, and succeeded on the 16th of October in surrounding them in the
defiles near Maloulah, six hours' distance from Damascus. The insurgents were obliged to give
battle, and were completely defeated, with a loss of 1000 men; the two Emirs were captured.
The loss of the troops was only thirty men. The village of Maloulah is inhabited principally
by Christians, and the Turkish soldiers, exasperated at the resistance they made, pillaged
some houses, carried off women, killed a Catholic monk, wounded another, and so seriously wounded
a schismatic Greek bishop that he died afterward. They also completely sacked two convents,
pretending that they contained gunpowder, and that insurgents had taken refuge in them. M.
de Valbezene, the French consul at Damascus, exerted himself on behalf of the Christians, and,
through his intervention, the seraskier of the army of Arabia promised assistance to the villages,
and ordered the troops forthwith to give up all the articles taken from the churches and convents.
The day after the battle, the Emirs were made to walk through the streets of Damascus in their
shirts, with irons on their feet, and street-brooms on their shoulders. They were to have been
subjected to the same punishment during five days, but suddenly they were sent off to Beyrout,
from whence they were forwarded to Constantinople. This measure was taken in consequence of
the breaking out of the revolt at Aleppo.

LITERATURE, SCIENCE, ART, PERSONAL MOVEMENTS, ETC.

UNITED STATES.

The past month has been more fruitful of events of interest in the world of Art than its predecessor.
This was to be expected; for the opening of what is called "The season," and the approach of
the Christmas holidays rarely pass without the production of novelties in most of the various
walks of Art. Booksellers, Print-publishers, Jewelers, and Managers of places of Public Amusement,
all, in fact, who minister to taste and luxury, reserve for December their finest and most
elaborate productions; and an examination of their advertisements, even, will afford the means
of judging the point of refinement attained by the public mind, whose demands they at once
create and supply.

A decided improvement, year by year, is to be noticed in the style of books and other articles
intended for Christmas and New-year gifts. The Annuals which, some five or six years ago, began
to droop, are now dead, utterly extinct. Their exaggerated romantic Prose, their diluted Della
Cruscan Poetry, their great-eyed, smooth-cheeked, straight-nosed, little-mouthed, small-waisted
beauties, have passed from their former world into the happy and congenial state of the Ladies'
Magazines, where they will again have their day, and again disappear before advancing taste
and superior education. The place of the Annuals is occupied, we will not say supplied, by
editions of the great poets and writers of prose fiction, illustrated in the highest style
of the steel and wood engraver. Some of the first artists of the day are now employed by publishers
to furnish designs for such publications, and the eagerness with which they are bought, and
the discriminating admiration which they, on the whole, receive, when regarded in connection
with the generous support given to Art Journals, Art Unions, and Public Galleries, show in
the public mind an increasing healthiness and soundness of taste, as well as a greater interest
in matters of Art.

Prominent among events of moment in this department, is the opening to the public, at the Düsseldorf
Gallery, of LESSING'S Great Picture, The Martyrdom of Huss. The Düsseldorf Gallery had contained
some of the finest modern paintings in the country, and had done much to keep alive the aroused
interest of the public in the Arts of Design before the arrival of this, the greatest work
of the acknowledged head of the Düsseldorf School; but now it is without doubt the centre of
attraction to all lovers of Art on this side the water, for the great picture, whether regarded
as to its intrinsic interest or its academic merits, has no rival here, and some enlightened
enthusiasts say, none among modern paintings in the world. The picture appeals at once to popular
sympathy, by the interest of its subject, the simplicity of its treatment, and by the striking
reality and strong individual character of its figures. We gave, in the December number of
this Magazine, a notice of this great picture, from a German paper, which renders any further
description of it here unnecessary.

A very interesting series of etchings from the pencil of Mr. J. W. EHNINGER, a young New York
artist, has just appeared. They illustrate IRVING'S Dolph Heyliger, and are full of the humor
of that charming Dutch story. Mr. EHNINGER is a pupil of the Düsseldorf school, and has but
just left its severe training. His style shows the conscientious faithfulness which is inculcated
there, as one of the first requisites of a true artist; he has very happy conceptions of character,
and seems to be thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the Knickerbocker times. In illustrating
them he can not but achieve desirable reputation.

An informal meeting of a large number of the members and associates of the Academy of Design
took place early in the last month. Its object was to devise measures to make the Academy a
more efficient means of advancing the Art. It was determined, among other things, that lectures
should be delivered upon Painting, and the various subjects connected with it. We have heard
the Rev. Dr. BETHUNE named as likely to be the first lecturer. He could hardly fail to interest
and instruct both the Members of the Academy, and the public generally, upon the subjects naturally
falling within the scope of the first of such a series of lectures. It is gratifying to see
that the members of the Academy are at last beginning to awake to the consciousness of its
inefficiency, and we trust that some benefit may accrue to Art from their action.

LEUTZE'S great picture of Washington Crossing the Delaware, a grand subject on which he had
been engaged nearly three years, has been destroyed by fire, or rather in consequence of fire,
as we learn by a letter from the artist himself, dated Düsseldorf, Nov. 10th. It is gratifying,
for the artist's sake, to know that the picture was fully insured; but Insurance Companies,
although very good protectors against pecuniary loss, can not reproduce works of genius or
make up for their loss.

Mr. HAWTHORNE, whose Scarlet Letter showed such rare ability in the portrayal of the hidden
workings of the heart, has a new work nearly finished, called The House of Seven Gables; it
will be eagerly sought for, and we trust may prove as admirable a performance as the first-named
book.

The purchase of the Greek Slave for distribution has brought the Western Art Union three thousand
subscribers this year. It is an increase of nearly one hundred per cent upon the subscriptions
of last year, but is hardly enough to warrant the addition of many other prizes to the great one.

JENNY LIND continues her triumphant progress through the country, delighting the world and
doing good. Each place which she visits gets up an excitement, which if it be not equal to
that at New York, is at least the result of a conscientious endeavor to accomplish the most
which can be achieved with the means at command. Her four concerts in Baltimore are said to
have produced forty thousand dollars, which is even more in proportion to the wealth and size
of the place than the average receipts at her concerts in New York.

It is stated that the existence of a third ring around the planet Saturn was discovered on
the night of Nov. 15th, by the astronomers at the Cambridge Observatory. It is within the two
others, and therefore its distance from the body of Saturn must be small. It will be remembered
that the eighth satellite of this planet was also discovered at Cambridge, by Mr. Bond, about
two years since.

Mr. JUNIUS SMITH, who has been for some years very zealously engaged in introducing the culture
of the tea plant into the United States, gives it as the result of his experiments that the
heat of summer is far more to be feared for the tea plant, than the cold of winter, and requires
more watchful care. In his field at Greenville, S. C., he has shaded every young plant put
out the first week in June, and so long as he continued to do so, did not lose a single plant
by the heat of the sun. The young tea-plants from nuts planted on the 5th of June last, and
those from China set out about the same time, and most of them still very small, do not appear
to have sustained the slightest injury, but are as fresh and green without any covering or
protection, as they were in September. He thinks it not at all unlikely that the cultivation
of the plant will become general in New England before it does in the Southern States.

Mr. DARLEY, whose outlines of Rip Van Winkle, and Sleepy Hollow, published by the Art Union,
won him so much reputation in Europe as well as here, is about to publish a series of outline
illustrations of Margaret, an American novel, said to be of great interest. We had some time
since the pleasure of seeing the drawings for these illustrations, and will venture to say
that in truthfulness of expression and accuracy of outline they are beyond any American works
of their kind, and surpassed by none we know of which have appeared in Europe, we will not
even except those of RETZSCH.

The Art-Union Bulletin is our authority for stating that Mr. Darley has also engaged to furnish,
to a print publisher in this city, twelve designs of large size, representing prominent scenes
in American history. They are to be sketches in chiaroscuro, which will afterward be engraved
in mezzotint. The first of these designs represents The Massacre of Wyoming. The point of time
chosen by the artist, is the first demonstration made by the savages against the settlement,
on the day preceding the general slaughter. A letter to the Tribune states that Mr. Healy,
one of our best portrait painters, is hard at work on the figures of the former two great rivals,
Mr. Webster and Mr. Calhoun. That of Mr. Calhoun is simply a full-length portrait, representing
him as taking his leave of the Senate; it is for the Charleston authorities. The accessories
of the painting are unimportant. That of Mr. Webster, however, gives us a large section of
the Senate chamber, galleries included, and about one hundred and fifty figures or portraits,
all after life. It is yet in outline. Boston will possess this valuable work of art, and almost
living history of the celebrated speech on the Constitution.

GREAT BRITAIN.

Mr. J. PAYNE COLLIER, the annotator upon Shakspeare, has received a pension of £100 a year
from the Royal Literary Pension Fund. Another pension, of the same amount, has been granted
to Mr. JAMES BAILEY, the translator of Facciolati's Latin Lexicon, and one of the most accomplished
scholars of the day. So, entirely, however, had Mr. Bailey abstracted himself from the great
literary world, that when the announcement was made of the pension conferred upon him "in consideration
of his literary merits," not one of the literary journals, not even the Athenæum, was able
to tell who the recipient was; but all declared that they knew of no man of letters bearing
that name. This fund amounts to £1200, and the lion's share of it, the remaining £1000, is
appropriated in a singular manner. It has been bestowed upon the wife of the new Lord Chancellor,
Lord Truro, lately Mr. Solicitor Wilde. This lady is the daughter of the late Duke of Sussex,
one of the sons of George III. The duke contracted a marriage with her mother, which was illegal
by the terms of the Royal Marriage Act, and which he afterward repudiated by forming a similar
connection with another woman, for whom he succeeded in procuring the title of Duchess of Inverness,
and an allowance from the public treasury, to enable her to support her dignity. On the death
of the duke an attempt was made to procure the recognition of his children by the former connection,
as members of the royal family, with a pension. This being unsuccessful, the sum of £500 a
year was first given to the daughter, who bore the name of D'Este, from the literary fund;
which sum was afterward increased by an additional £500, from the same fund. The chief counsel
in prosecuting these claims was Mr. Wilde, who, immediately on his elevation to the bench,
as Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, marries this soi-disant Princess D'Este. Though the present
chancellor is very wealthy, and receives a large income from his office, his wife still continues
to absorb five-sixths of the sum at the disposal of the crown as a reward to "eminent literary
merit:" her merit, like that celebrated in Figaro, being that she "condescended to be born;"
from all of which it appears, that the merit of being a spurious off-shoot of the royal family,
is just ten times as great as that of the most earnest and successful prosecution of literary
and scientific pursuits.

The English papers, and especially the Literary Journals, express considerable apprehension
that the English people are likely to be outdone in the coming Exhibition. The Athenæum complains
of the comparative indifference which pervades the English manufacturers, while every mail
from the Continent and from America, brings intelligence of an increased activity in their
workshops. The prize of victory, in this case, it says, must rest with the strong. A new era
in industry and commerce opens with 1851: and for a producer to be out of the Catalogue of
the Exhibition will be equivalent to abandoning the field.

The gardens of the Zoological Society of London are constantly receiving new accessions from
the liberal efforts of the English colonial Governors, and others in foreign parts. Fine presents
of rare animals have also been received from several of the royal families of Europe.

A scheme has been proposed to convert the now abandoned grave-yards of London, into ornamental
gardens, by throwing down useless walls, planting elms, mulberries, fig-trees and other plants
which flourish in crowded thoroughfares, and laying out the surface with walks and flower-beds.
Not to interfere with the sanctities of the graves, or permanently to remove any historic marks
from their present localities, it is also proposed to collect the grave-stones and form with
them the base of a pyramidal or other kind of monument to be erected in each church-yard.

The rumor that government intends to impose a mileage tax upon the electric telegraph has elicited
very warm and emphatic remonstrances from the English press. The fact is very prominently brought
forward that in England the telegraph is used much less than in the United States, because
its employment is very greatly restricted by high charges, while in America it is thrown open
to the great body of the public and is accordingly used by them. The Athenæum, speaking of
the matter, says that, instead of adding to the expense of working the iron messengers, every
effort should be made to reduce it so as to bring its benefits and consolations within the
reach of smaller means. In this, as in some other respects, America sets the old continent
a good example.

A new public park is soon to be opened, on the south side of London. The shooting grounds and
premises so well known as the Red House, nearly opposite to Chelsea Hospital, have been purchased
by Government for, it is said, £11,000. Of the new bridge to be erected across the Thames,
in connection with this park, the works are soon to be begun.

Mr. CHARLES LOCKE EASTLAKE, has been elected President of the Royal Academy; he has also had
the honor of knighthood conferred upon him.

Mr. MACREADY has been giving readings from Shakspeare the proceeds of which he appropriates
to the purchase of Shakspeare's house for the country. He was one of the most liberal of the
original subscribers to this fund, and has by this renewed donation aided still more effectually
the accomplishment of the object.

Professor FARADAY, at a late meeting of the Royal Institution, announced his discovery that
oxygen is magnetic, that this property of the gas is affected by heat, and that he believes
the diurnal variation of the magnetic needle to be due to the action of solar heat on this
newly discovered characteristic of oxygen--the important constituent of the atmosphere. It
is said that Bequerel also has recently directed attention to a somewhat similar conclusion;
he communicated to the Academy of Sciences at Paris, that oxygen is magnetic in relation to
the other gases, as iron is to the rest of the metals, and inferred that it is probable or
possible that diurnal variation may be connected with this property of oxygen.

HENRY FITZMAURICE HALLAM, M.A., the only surviving son of the eminent English historian, died
at Sienna, after a short illness, on the 26th of October, and at the early age of twenty-seven
years. He had visited Rome with his father and others of the family, and they were on their
return homeward, when this affliction fell upon them. It will be remembered, that a few years
ago his elder brother, full of college honors and of the highest promise, died under equally
afflictive circumstances.

A pamphlet by Sir Francis Bond Head, on the defenseless state of Great Britain, has excited
a good deal of attention, and elicited some pretty sharp criticism from the London journals.
Still, it is very generally conceded that there is a great deal of truth in his representations.

A correspondent of the London Athenæum, writing from Naples, gives an account of a visit paid
to the studio of the American sculptor, POWERS. The figure of "America," upon which he is now
engaged, is that of a robust young female, with a noble and dignified expression of countenance,
and the head surrounded by a diadem of thirteen stars. The left arm and hand are elevated,
as if exhorting the people to trust in heaven; while the right rests on the fasces, which are
crowned with bay leaves, enforcing the precept that Union is Strength and will be crowned with
Victory. The statue, which is half covered with drapery, will be 14 feet high; and for power,
beauty, and dignity combined, the writer says, it is one of the finest that he has ever seen
in Italy. Powers is about to commence working it out in marble, and calculates that in fifteen
months it will be ready for sending off. By the side of it stands a half-developed statue of
"California."

FRANCE.

A new method of voting, which offers incontestable advantages on the score of accuracy and
rapidity, has received an appropriation from the French Chambers. Each member is provided with
a box containing ten ballots; five white (ayes), and five blue (nays). These consist of oblong
squares of steel, having the name of the representative engraved upon each side. The urns are
so arranged that the white and blue ballots fall into different compartments, not at random,
but arrange themselves against a graduated copper rod, which shows at a glance the number of
ballots for or against. These rods are taken from the urns, and placed upon a piece of mechanism
upon the tribune, so arranged that one side shows all the ayes, the other all the nays, and
the secretaries have only to add up the sums of the rods. Then, by touching a lever, the sides
are reversed, so that the secretaries who have added the ayes have the nays presented to them;
thus mutually checking each other. The result is thus ascertained in a few minutes, with scarcely
a possibility of error. Lists are prepared beforehand bearing numbers corresponding to those
engraved on a corner of the ballots, by which means the copy for the Moniteur is speedily furnished,
with the utmost accuracy. This which used to take a considerable time, and swarmed with errors,
can now be done in ten minutes. This ingenious and beautiful apparatus costs 27,000 francs.

A new aeronautic machine has been exhibited at Paris, which it is claimed solves the long sought
problem, at least on a small scale, of directing the course of a balloon through the air. The
leading ideas of the machine are drawn from the structure of birds and fishes, the animals
that possess the power of traversing a liquid element. The model with which the successful
experiments were performed, consists of a balloon of gold-beaters' skin, inflated with hydrogen,
some three or four yards long, nearly round in front, and terminating in a horizontal rudder
like the tail of a bird; a little before and above which is another rudder placed vertically,
like the tail of a fish. The former is to change the course of the vessel up and down, the
latter to turn it to the right or left. Toward the head of the balloon, in a position corresponding
to that of the fins of a fish, are placed light wings, capable of a rapid motion, which constitute
the motive power. In the model these are set in motion by machinery; but in the working machine
human power is proposed. A framework of hollow iron is placed horizontally around the balloon
to which it is attached by cords; this furnishes the fixed point to which are attached the
cords which move the rudders; and from it is suspended the car in which the passengers are
to be placed. The inventor promises to construct a machine capable of carrying up fifty persons.
He acknowledges that the apparatus will be bulky, but consoles himself by the reflection that
there is no present danger of the air being crowded. The whole weight of the machine and its
burden is to be so proportioned to the amount of hydrogen in the balloon, that it will remain
in equilibrium; an anchor is then to be thrown overboard, when the machine will of course rise;
when a sufficient height is gained the anchor is to be weighed, and the equilibrium being again
restored, the machine will be stationary; and it may then be propelled and guided by the wings
and the rudders. Such, at least, is the belief of one of the editors of La Siècle, who was
present at the trial of the model, and who indulges in the most glowing anticipations of the
future success of the invention.

Rossini is said to be secretly superintending, at Boulogne, the production of a musical work
to which he attaches great importance. He passes every evening and a part of each day with
the famous tenor Donzelli, in revising this work, which has not yet been made known to the
public, and which, it is said, will soon be performed at Boulogne.

Armand Marrast is engaged in writing some very curious memoirs respecting the events of the
years 1848 and 1849. It is said that they will contain verbatim extracts from a report made
to him and to General Cavaignac, by M. Carlier, on occasion of the election of Louis Napoleon
to the Constituant Assembly. M. Carlier goes into many details of the habits and customs of
Louis Napoleon, and of other members of his family.

It is stated in the French journals that in consequence of the confusion existing between the
maritime calculations of different powers, and the unfortunate occurrences to which it sometimes
leads, the naval powers of the north--Russia, Sweden, Denmark, and Holland--have entered into
an agreement to open conferences on the old question of a common meridian for all nations.
France, Spain, and Portugal, it is said, have given in their adhesion to the scheme; and a
hope is held out that England will come into the arrangement. The most advanced opinion on
the Continent seems to be in favor of the selection of an entirely neutral point of intersection--say
Cape Horn--which it is said would have the immense advantage of being agreeable to the Americans.

M. Polain, keeper of the Archives at Liege, has recently discovered that the famous French
historian, Froissart, whose Chronicles are universally known, copied the first fifty chapters
of his work from Jehan le Bel, an author of his own time, whose manuscripts have been recently
discovered in the Belgian libraries. This is a discovery of considerable interest to antiquarians.
An edition of one hundred and twenty-five copies of Jehan le Bel's book has been printed for
the use of a select number of historical savans.

A whimsical discovery is announced by M. Jules Allix, in the feuilleton of the Paris Presse.
It seems too absurd to merit repetition, but it is reproduced in some of the London literary
papers, and is there treated as if there might be something real in it. It is stated that a
method has been discovered of communicating instantly between any two places on the earth,
without regard to distance or continuous lines, and through the agency of magnetized snails!
The inventors of this novel telegraph are said to be M. Benoit, of France, and M. Biat, of
America; and they are further said to have been engaged for several successive years in experimenting
upon the subject. They claim to have ascertained that certain descriptions of snails possess
peculiar properties or sympathies, which cause them to feel the same sensation, no matter at
what distance they may be, when acted on in a particular way by galvanic and magnetic influences.
A snail placed in a box, suitably provided with the requisite apparatus, in France, thus responds
to the motions of a snail, placed in a similar box, in America; and by providing a snail for
each letter, a conversation may thus be carried on. The correspondent of the London Literary
Gazette, says that he saw experiments on the subject in Paris, which were attended with complete
success. The whole thing is probably an ingenious hoax. A skeptical correspondent of the Literary
Gazette proposes an easy method of testing the new telegraph. He says, "If the Presse newspaper
will every day for a few weeks give a short abstract of contemporary American news, or indeed
mention any points of prominent interest which occur on the other side of the Atlantic; thus
anticipating by some weeks the ordinary mails; and if, when these arrive, the news given by
the snail telegraph is confirmed, doubts will vanish, and snails will be at a premium."

Louis Napoleon, in his Message announced that the French government has proposed to the different
Cabinets international relations for putting an end to the long tolerated abuse of literary
and artistic piracy--that these propositions have been favorably received, in principle, by
most of the Cabinets--and that between France and Sardinia a treaty has already been signed
for the mutual protection of both these species of property. The announcement has been hailed
with great satisfaction by the literary public.

A correspondent of the Literary Gazette says, that the distinguished French poet, BERANGER,
occupies himself a good deal in writing biographies, anecdotes, criticisms, &c., of the public
men with whom, in the course of his long career, he came in contact. It is now two years since
he announced his intention of giving such a work to the public, and he seems to think that
it will possess great historical value.

A clever hoax was played off by La Presse against the President. The day previous to the one
when the President's Message was to have appeared, that journal published a document entitled,
"Message of the President of the Republic to the General Assembly," bearing the signature L.
N. Bonaparte. Under the various heads which such a document would naturally contain, the most
radical and sweeping propositions were laid down; propositions which nobody suspected the President
of entertaining in the Elysée, whatever his opinions might have been when meditating in the
Castle of Ham. Official communications were at once dispatched to the evening papers, declaring
the publication a forgery; and stating that the Procureur of the Republic had caused the paper
in question to be seized at the post and in the office of publication. The next day La Presse
opened with an article stating that the paper of the day before had been seized for publishing
such and such an article, copying its message of the previous day, and declaring it to be genuine,
for that every word of it was the acknowledged publication of the President. The fact was that
it was made up of extracts from various publications which Bonaparte had put forth at different
epochs; and could hardly be branded as a forgery. Thus far the paper seemed to have the advantage.
But the court soon turned the scale by sentencing the gérant of the paper, M. Nefftzer, to
an imprisonment of a year, and a fine of 2000 francs.

GERMANY, ETC.

A correspondent of the London Literary Gazette gives an account of an interesting quarrel between
the directors of the Theatre Royal at Brussels and the Press. Disliking some of the criticisms
of the latter, the directors posted placards announcing that they had withdrawn from sundry
papers a specified number of free admissions worth a specified sum per annum. The proprietors
of the paper had sued them for libels, and the case was before the courts.

Few of living literary men have enjoyed a wider reputation in the same department than the
celebrated German critic HEINRICH HEINE. The literary world will, therefore, learn with regret
that he is dying. An article in a late number of the London Leader says, that "paralysis has
killed every part of him but the head and heart; and yet this diseased body--like that of the
noble Augustia Thierry--still owns a lordly intellect. In the brief intervals of suffering
Heine prepares the second volume of his 'Buch der Lieder;' and dictates the memoirs of his
life--which he will make a picture gallery, where the portraits of all the remarkable persons
he has seen and known will be hung up for our inspection. Those who know Heine's wicked wit
and playful sarcasm will feel, perhaps, somewhat uncomfortable at the idea of sitting for their
portraits; but the public will be eager 'for the fun.' There is little of stirring interest
in the events of his life; but he has known so many remarkable people, and his powers of vivid
painting are of an excellence so rare in German authors, that the announcement of his memoirs
will create a great sensation."

The King of Bavaria has formed the gigantic design of causing to be executed a series of pictures
on subjects derived from the annals of all times and all nations; the whole being destined
to form a sort of pictorial universal chronology. But the expense and vastness of such a project
warrant the fear that it will never be realized.

