My bamboo stood right at the intersection of a smaller path and the bamboo alley, and could
be seen from a distance. I accordingly followed the cross path and came thus into the dark
green bosket out of which the erythrina stood towering. From a distance it seemed as though
the flowering giant were closely surrounded by the smaller trees and bushes; but if one stepped
through the green hedge, one found in the centre of it a great open circle, like the hallowed
precinct of a sacred tree; out of the ground rose massively the mighty trunk, showing in clear
outline its flower-laden branches, of which the lower ones were far extended and dipped their
fiery burden deep in the surrounding thicket. Beneath the tree was a bench; from it I could,
to the left, look back along the path and into the bamboo alley, while straight ahead an opening
in the bushes afforded a view of the fountain and the middle of the garden.

I seated myself in the hedged-in sultry air, which seemed to have been very little cooled by
the night, and dreamed of the expected sweetheart. I gazed to the left and saw the sunbathed
stems and twigs of bamboo stand out clearly and prettily on the dark shady background; and
looked straight ahead and saw the fountain spraying and foaming, and often in the tea plantation
observed the old man bend forward and rise erect again.

What did she look like? Like this woman and that woman who had before now found favor in my
sight? Hardly; in that case those other women would have held me captive. How must she be?
Black, white, or red--that cannot matter. Her eyes will take me, her lips will intoxicate me,
because they are hers! She will be such that my eye will no more estimate and compare, that
my mind will no more dream and desire, that I shall feel she is she, and acknowledge her as
the only power outside myself; so that my heart, my brain, and every fibre of my flesh will
glow under the same compulsion to take from itself this body and spirit now subject to another
will than mine, to transform it, to engraft it upon my being, whether for life or for death,
to consume it, to drain it up as the sole valid increase of my existence! I shall feel myself
to be a force nevermore divisible!

Her hair will be curly and of the soft brown of an old walnut, and, like the shell of a walnut,
her twisted braids will surround the back of her head--and her eyes gray as a German lake in
May, when clouds hover over it and the wind chases bright electric sparks over the waves ...
her hair may also be black, and her eyes brown like snuff; but her heart must be strong, so
that a man may succumb to it!

My eyes watched the bamboo alley and saw the littlest leaves and the tiniest twigs gently quiver
in the heat. Nothing else. She did not come.

I peered into the park through the opening in the bushes: in the purest brightness the fountain
waved its spray over the tops of the shrubs and palms up into the blue, vibrating air. And
the old gardener continued his plucking of tea leaves, rising a little and bending again at
every short step, almost unreal in this noiseless, torrid realm. I turned my eyes back to the
bamboo. I was aglow with heat, perhaps also with expectation; my heart throbbed convulsively
and irregularly--and reminded me of a telegraphic key in an empty, sun-heated railway station,
which, left to itself, ticks incessantly.

For a long while I sat occupied with my thoughts and staring at the same spot. Suddenly I had
a feeling as though there were a shaking of twigs in the upper part of my particular bamboo.
I looked sharply; there was another gentle agitation, a quiver of the stems and leaves, as
though some one had struck against the trunk below;--only at this one spot. Then all was calm
again.

I grew impatient. She is not coming! Mayhap she will come as soon as I am gone, and when I
return I shall find an answer. I stood up, stretched myself, and walked slowly toward the bamboo
alley.

In passing, I glanced once more at the place of the inscription, and looked fixedly at it,
and examined it still more closely, and breathed audibly, and my heart thumped. Beneath my words,

                        Whether there or here,
                        Be with me, dear!

there were now written in dainty characters the words,

                        I am.

The green avenue was empty. Nobody had passed through here; I had seen nobody stop at this
spot. And yet she was here, and had written her answer! In sudden embarrassment I took a step
backward, and involuntarily asked, "You are here? Here with me?" My voice was so hollow that
I myself noticed its unnaturalness. "With me?" I repeated, sighing, unable to comprehend. And
then, like a liberation, a feeling of terror and awe thrilled my whole being, and I looked
down upon myself cautiously, almost timidly, as though thereby I might injure somebody. In
vague apprehension I turned quite around until I again faced the inscribed bamboo trunk.

"You are here--with me--?" I whispered. "Verily--I saw how you took hold of the bamboo to write
on it, and let it go again, so that it quivered. I saw that you were here, even though at present
I cannot see you. You--are--with me?" I could speak no more; my heart beat slowly and hard,
like a rubber hammer that I could feel even up to my throat and ears; a mute, voluptuous rapture
filled my soul, a pride, a sense of triumph, such as peradventure the chosen one feels when
in the midst of the multitude he realizes his good fortune and reveals it to no man.

"Come!" I said finally, waited a moment to let her take the lead, and then strode composedly
back to the erythrina; and leaving the place at my right vacant for her, I seated myself upon
the bench. I did not stir, I sat there quietly, shuddering with rapture and expectation, and
at the same time depressed by the impotence of my clumsy senses, to which I yielded only with
difficulty.

I waited--I waited. Was she there? Had she not followed me at all? Have I driven her away?
Must I act otherwise?

Then I felt a brushing of my right cheek, and my whole body fluttered upward. I looked down
in her direction and saw that an erythrina blossom had grazed my cheek and fallen close beside
me upon the bench. I gazed at it lying fiery there upon the gray wood; I quieted myself and
collected my faculties. I said to myself, "Do not lose your self-control! Do not let yourself
be submerged! No anxiety! No terror! There is nothing contrary to nature! All being is spirit.
If she is here, she will reveal her presence again, more plainly, as distinctly as you can bear.--"

I looked straight ahead and perceived that the gray-garbed old man with the little basket in
his hand was slowly traversing the quivering glassy air of the garden; I saw him disappear
behind the snowy spray of the fountain, reappear again on the other side, and then vanish in
the bushes. I felt as though I had been left alone in the world and were about to be lost forever;
I listened for some bird or other creature, and was happy to hear the shriek of a parrot and
the hissing of the fountain through the ardent air.

I waited immovably.

Suddenly, whether because a breath stirred the air or because weary ripeness released them,
suddenly a shower of blossoms descended from the branches, and erythrina flowers rained down
upon my head, neck, shoulders, and arms, into my lap, upon the grass at my feet, like heavy
drops of fire from burning torches. I surveyed their resting places round about; the space
at my right had remained empty; not a single blossom had lighted upon the bench on this side
of me, while to my left a handful lay scattered. I turned again toward the right: before and
behind the bench the blossoms gleamed from the grass; unless some one were sitting there, the
place could not but have been covered with blossoms! I drew a deep breath of excitement--bliss--sweet
awe. The weary blossoms continued to fall; and now I was aware how, above the place at my right,
they scattered in the air in every direction, how they were pressed to the right and left,
front and back, and how some trickled down slowly and hesitatingly, as though impeded by garments.--

I forcibly released myself from the strange spell, stood up, took a step forward, and turned
round. Where I had just been sitting, four or five blossoms were already gleaming from the
gray wood--next to that place the bench was still uncovered.

In wonderment I stood there and gazed. And now I felt, I saw, how, gradually, as from a delicate
haze, outlines and shadowy forms emerged and rounded out. With my bodily eyes I saw, like a
colorless picture mirrored in running water, the forms of a head and oval face, fine, gently
sloping shoulders, arms symmetrically bent, with clasped hands; and, as though through a gray
veil, I saw crystal clear eyes beam upon me.

My heart was almost broken with happiness and intolerably growing desire; lifting my hands,
I sank down before her and kissed the place where the shadow of her feet fell upon the grass.
Then I looked upon the crystal orbs of her eyes, lifted my hands high in supplication, and
stammered, "Dearest, help me! Appear to me! Come forth to me! Let me hear the sound of your
voice! Let me know your heart and learn what is your will!"

She did not stir; the cold gleam of her eyes did not turn away from me; methought two sharp
rays of icy air pierced me; I froze, I froze, and in torture I cried, "What is your wish? What
shall I do?"--

My cry sounded to me as horrible as a crime; her eyes flashed white and were extinguished;
and I saw her no more. Shivering with cold and despair I remained on my knees and waited to
see whether she would not come again.

An eternity of time passed by.

Then I perceived that another rain of fiery blossoms descended, and covered her place too.

I arose painfully and groaning; hopeless, I left the bench and hastened with weak tottering
steps to get into the sun. Warmth, burning heat was the only thing I was still able to wish
for. Near to the rustling of the water, I lay down on a bench in the glaring sun; and when
I there, as it were, felt the icy frame within me slowly melt, when the cold sweat on my skin
dried up, and the cold shivers ebbed away in warmth--then I breathed easily, with infinite
inspirations of rapture which were near to bursting my lungs; then I inwardly rejoiced, as
though I had barely escaped death and after the last leap of my strength had sunk down exhausted
by the gate of the promised land. Have patience; the gate will be opened. Confidence in this
hope surged through me like blood newly revived.

Whence came she? Where is she now? Have I driven her away?

Was the happiness passing all understanding, the rapture like unto none ever experienced, was
this not enough? Oh, that I could not refrain from asking more and urging for more! Did she
not give me more than I had believed possible only an hour before? Was it weakness, that I
felt her eyes pierce me like icy arrows? Must I not have frightened and driven her away by
that shriek of the weak beast in me? What a wretched creature I am! Have I not always found
cause for discontent in women; were they not always in my sight too much of the earth earthy--mothers
from the first? And now, when one who steals away to me from who knows what distant body, a
thrilling emotion, an unearthly powerful light, then I tremble in terror like a child before
the evil one! I have wounded her, have frightened her away with my shriek for flesh and blood!

But she will come again! From the far distance something has impelled her to come hither, I
have drawn her here to me; for only in me on earth does she find her portion, as also I only
in her; and if we miss each other, we shall forever suffer the penalty. She will come again.
I shall learn patience; I shall purify my strength of all gross capacity for feeling pain;
I shall endure to stand in the presence of her strength, and shall grow to be like unto her!

I did not now expect her again on this day, and the garden was desolate to me; but I could
not leave it. For hours long I lay here, sat there, went hither and thither along the untraveled
paths; and only when visitors became more numerous, so that I could no longer avoid them, late
in the afternoon, I turned toward home.

Returning from their vacation, the scholars soon began to reoccupy the boarding school; I had
to answer inquiries, make arrangements, and take counsel with the housekeeper and the director.
My heart and mind were, however, so full of other matters and so far away from these, that
I performed all my duties with the greatest good-nature and serviceableness, very much as,
while at work, you stroke and scratch your dog with your free hand.

In this manner I passed the evening hours.

The night, however, I passed with little sleep, and much meditation and wakeful dreaming. Then
it became evident to me that I was just beginning an apprenticeship to love. And the first
lesson showed me that a weak, deluded, selfish heart must suffer pain and torture through love.
For love is not yielding, pitiful, indulgent, self-surrendering; it is proud, compelling, inexorable
as beauty, as God Himself, who certainly does not love those to whom He is gracious and merciful,
and who has never yet taken pity on His elect. In such thoughts I bathed, as in the icy morning
dew of the mountains, for the coming day.

When my duties of the forenoon were over, I hastened through the already scorching heat to
the park, into the bamboo alley, under the erythrina, where I sat down.

For a long while I waited, and saw and felt nothing indicative of her presence, and was nevertheless
sure she would come. The bamboo scarcely trembled in the blue heat of the sky. The dark trees
and shrubs kept still, as though not to frighten away the swarm of silver lights that had descended
upon them for rest. Unchangeable, flowing only back upon itself, stood the pillar of spray
of the distant fountain dazzlingly in the air; its splashing resounded indistinctly. Only rarely,
as though waved by an indolent fan, a hot current of air rolled over to me and eddied about
me, sweet and comforting.

I looked over toward the fountain, and there she sat on the marble curbing of the pool.

Briskly I arose and went toward her with measured steps. She had disappeared. I seated myself
upon a shady bench over against the place that she had occupied. Soon she returned with flowers
in her hand, and without looking at me, seated herself once more upon the marble. She was as
delicate as a shade. An oval face with severe profile, surrounded by nut-brown hair; I could
not see her eyes. Her drapery was of cobweb-colored gauze, the clasp of her girdle a simple
buckle of soft, shaded vermilion. Face and hands were bloodlessly pale; her figure tall, slight,
and fine. Thus she sat there; delicately, and yet with color and warmth, she contrasted with
the spraying banner of foam of the fountain. She did not stir. I did not take my eye from her.
Once something whirred through the air before her and I saw a humming-bird descend upon the
lily blossoms in her hand. And darting back and forth, the gleaming little bird flew several
times back to her flowers, so still was she.

This motionlessness filled me with sadness on account of my folly of the preceding day, and
oppressed me. I cautiously stepped up to her and remained standing in front of her, to see
whether she would not raise her eyes; but she made no sign. Then I could not help falling upon
my knees, and my eyes sought hers. Her transparent face, her half-closed eyes made no movement.
Without a sound I got up from my knees and returned to my bench. Then she arose, walked slowly
round the glowing white marble ring of the pool, and vanished in the shrubbery beyond, without
my venturing to follow her.

I remained at my place and recalled again and again to my eyes how she sat there at the edge
of the water, could not be forced to lift up her countenance upon me, and still gave me so
much happiness. Could I have endured more?--how she, noiselessly and gracefully waving the
folds of her soft flowing garment, slowly glided about the fountain, like a fairy of old, and
bestowed upon my last glance the never-failing comfort of beauty.

Not until the hour of my duty at the boarding school drew near in the late afternoon did I
drag myself away and forsake the park.

I performed my duty according to my custom.

As soon as duty was over on the following morning I found myself on the way to the city park.

Suddenly I was aroused at hearing my name called. I looked up and saw Mariandel standing in
her window, stared at her, and came to my senses, and felt the desiccating heat of the day.

"Do you mean to run by again?" the girl asked in surprise.

"I was thinking," I answered.

"And yesterday you were thinking so hard that you did not even hear me call after you!--How
you look!" she cried in sudden apprehension.

"I do not know of anything. How do I?"

"Worn out! Terribly! Have you been revelling all night?"

"Revelling!" I murmured with a smile, and relapsed into my revery.

"But what is the matter with you? Erwin!"

"I don't sleep well."

"Are you writing verses again all night long?"

I shook my head.

"And in what condition you come along here! You neither see nor hear anything!"

I grew impatient and said, "I am thinking; excuse me!" and went on quickly, paying no more
attention to what she called after me.

I entered the gate of the park, and stopped. My eye took in the welcome sight of all the familiar
things, the sparkling sandy paths, the silvery sheen of the grass, the dark shrubbery, the
ragged umbelliform palms, the ceaselessly foaming gush of water, the feathery forest of bamboo,
the blossoming of the giant trees--I breathed the heat-refined, insinuating air, heavy with
perfume, and suddenly I felt my heart relieved, and delighted, and secure, as though I were
entering my home.

I went right through the garden, past the pool, to the bamboo alley. There came Mara from the
brightness at the other end, slowly through the green vault to meet me. So long as she was
at a distance she looked at me. I saw only the penetrating, mighty gleam of her eyes, and nothing
more; almost as unbearable as two stars they shone out from under the shade of her great straw
hat. Approaching, she cast down her eyes; and now the winsome swaying of her tall figure, as
she easily moved along, caused such a rush of rapture to surge through me that I would have
prostrated myself on the ground, merely that she might pass over me. But I restrained myself.
I said, "God greet you," and stepped up to her side. Without another word we wandered on together.

To adapt my pace to hers, to be able with my hand to stroke the soft folds of her garment,
to have the privilege of gazing at the sharp profile of her white face, the shade of her dark
lashes, the pale redness of her lips--this happiness was so great that for a long time the
desire to speak did not come over me.

Finally I asked, and my heart beat anxiously, "Who are you? Are you called Mara? Whence do
you come? Counsel me!"

Now she raised her hand slightly, with a deprecating gesture; we went silently on again, and
I was not again able to escape the dominance of her will. Could anything better befall me than
being with her? Can one sign of love give more happiness than another? It may be a different
one, but not meant to be more genuine.

Suddenly she got somewhat ahead of me. I started to catch up with her, but did not exert myself
especially, and the distance between us grew still greater. Mara crossed the garden; try as
I might, I remained farther and farther behind; she strode ever farther from me, disappeared
in the bushes, appeared again, then vanished never to return.

Oh, that I might at least have said good-by to her, have touched her garment only once more,
have looked once more into her mysterious eyes!

I sought for her in the whole gigantic park. I sat for a long time on the marble curbing of
the pool, where yesterday she had tarried, under the erythrina also for a long time; in the
green light of the bamboo alley I walked and dreamed--dreamed of the solution of this riddle.

I stayed away from a class with which I was supposed to resume work this afternoon, and did
not return to the boarding school until the wonted hour had struck.

On this night I could get no more real sleep than on the nights before. Whether I lay awake
or dozed, my thoughts incessantly hovered about the mystery of these days, endeavored to overcome
its fascination, and to see clearly. Was the rapture which this maiden's beauty gave me not
a danger? Had I the right to let my pain at Mara's disappearance pass away in this rapture?
Was the pain not just and rightful? Every love is a test of love, and one must meet the test!
What must I nourish and justify within me, Mara's love or my love? If I yield and bow to the
will of her love, how can I be faithful to mine? The love of man and woman shall be like two
linden-trees which grow separately side by side, their tops only forming a single indistinguishable
dome; but if one trunk leans upon the other, they will wound each other in the storm and will
become crippled. Let the love of man and woman be like a sword with two edges; neither edge
may grow dull out of love for the other, else they cannot unite to form a point. Let the love
of two be the untroubled unity of the man and of the woman of purest essence, so that the man
shall admit nothing womanish, and the woman nothing mannish into her being; else they will
become a puzzling confusion, not a unity.

"Let the morrow be governed by my will!" I said to myself; and a dream, the only one to abide
with me from among the fugitive half-dreams of the night--a dream confirmed my resolution,
although it flowed like a tributary into the stream of the thoughts that I thought I had, and
brought nothing surprising.

I saw Mara walking amidst the mountains of my home on a snowy night. Neither moon nor stars
shone in the heavens, there was merely the faint gleam of the snow in contrast to the edge
of the dark forest; but Mara's figure was bright and of distinctive color, as she had appeared
to me under the tropical sun. In red shoes she strode down the snow-clad river valley, stepped
up to the dark houses, and peered in at the windows; immediately all the windows of the house
were illumined as with the rays of a bright light, and became dark again when the maiden wandered
on. Tirelessly she did the same thing at every house that faced toward the river, in every
hamlet, the length of a long road. At last she came to my native town and to the house of red
sandstone in which my mother lay in travail. Mara stretched, and grew, and looked in at the
window; the house lighted up within and grew more and more light, flames flickered within,
burst forth at all the windows, and united together above the high roof. Like a great scarlet
flower the house stood there in the night, the light of the fire flowed over the snow in the
yard and across the ice of the river, and illumined the snow-covered houses of the city on
yonder side. From all the church steeples the clocks struck the first hour of the day, one
after the other; when the sound of the last stroke died away, the fire in the house was suddenly
extinguished, and once more I caught sight of Mara, who had eluded my eyes. She came out upon
the highway, placed a naked baby boy on his feet in the snow beside her, and strode back the
way she had come. The boy kept hold of a fold of her garment, and with his poor little legs
trotted along beside her; his heavy head tottered in every direction, his eyes were tightly
closed, and he uttered a plaintive croaking. Mara too had closed her eyes, a quiet joy animated
her countenance, her feeling seemed to be far off from the poor little creature which, side
by side with her, tramped up into the snowy forest.

With a shudder I had awaked, and after long pondering I had returned to my thoughts of the
previous evening: yes, this day should be subject to my will!

And so in the morning I went at the wonted hour not into the park but into the city. Reading
the paper, I stood in squares and at cross-roads and waited. Ill at ease, I goaded myself through
the streets, as though dragged hither and thither in a stream of molten metal; I loitered in
the café and the bookshop. But my mind was so absorbed that the waiter or dealer who brought
me what I had ordered startled me as if from sleep. My eye saw Mara wandering in the park,
resting at the fountain, sitting beside me on the bench under the erythrina, transparent, like
a figure formed of water, in a rain of drops of fire; and my heart was filled with a longing
to which I had willed it should not yield.

At noon when, unheeding the shadeless heat, I sauntered toward a bridge which spanned the deep
valley of the river--there in the middle of the road, engulfed by the undulating air, there
walked Mara! The desire of my conceit, to avoid her, was of no avail against my overpowering
joy. I stepped up to her. How daintily she moved in the obedient folds of her brownish-gray
garment, beneath the hem of which the tip of her red shoe peeped out and disappeared again.
Like a blossom of the softest red the clasp of her girdle shone beneath her breast. Her eyes
seemed to me full of the joy of meeting again, as they gleamed forth from the shade of her
hat. My will gave itself up and died, as shame dies. Whispering her name as a greeting, I turned
round when I reached her, and by her side I retraced my steps. She looked straight ahead, a
childlike smile softened the expression of her mouth, heretofore so serious, and her lips blossomed
red in her white face. I strode along beside her and lost myself. Why do I not snatch her to
my bosom? Why do I not kiss myself to death on her lips?

Yes--why did I not do that?

When I chanced to become aware that she avoided the populous streets, then indeed there came
to me a fleeting consciousness, an angry pain at my weakness, and I turned into the main street.
She remained by my side. If you do not do her will, then she will do yours. Because you did
not go to her, she came to you! And as I had purposed, I meant now to subject her to my will.
But in my distracted excitement I could think out no plan; nothing occurred to me but to go
aimlessly hither and thither, to turn back, and to stand still. And in this very inability
I recognized how fully I was under her spell.

I began to speak.

"Mara, if you wish to put me to the test, give me a task that I can comprehend, that I can
struggle with! This is playing a game that tortures me. You know my heart. It wears a mantle
of pride, but under the mantle lurks melancholy; many a time it rises in its might, tears off
the mantle, and treads its starched purple in the dust, and--" Mara gently placed her left
hand, which was as cool as the folds of her garment, upon my right hand, so that my will retreated
in fear within me. I thought, "How ridiculous to talk like that! In what poor taste--how did
you come to do it? It was well that she interrupted you. And she knows everything; she knows
more about you than you know about yourself." Ashamed, not daring to look at her, I walked
along a short distance.

But soon I once more revolted against her power. In some way or other I must subdue her.

At a street corner I suddenly remained one pace behind her, turned into a side street, darted
into a shop, and observed through the window how she, searching, came back the way that we
had gone. Then I ran farther down the side street and through a passage way into another street,
hastily, excitedly, almost beside myself.

All of a sudden I saw Mariandel standing amazed and waiting for me a few paces in advance.
Her fine blue eyes were filled with tears, she held out her hand to me, and called out reproachfully
and compassionately at the same time, "Erwin--!"

I barely touched her hand, whispered that I was in a hurry, and fled past her into another
street. Mara, I thought, will surely know where I am; but by the time she gets here, I shall
be somewhere else. And spying around on all sides, I rushed on.

Behold, on the same road ahead of me there walked a lithe maiden of middle size, whose unexpected
sight took my breath away and robbed my knees of their strength. In a dark-green woolen dress,
as I had last seen her in Germany, she walked apparently absent-minded whithersoever her footsteps
carried her. How many a time I had seen before me this childishly slender brown neck, this
knot of dark hair; how often this hat on her arm as now, or in her slender brown hand. I longed
to see her familiar face, but I feared to meet her glance. I crossed the street, outdistanced
her as she slowly advanced, and then walked slowly to meet her. "How far away from me that
seems!" I thought, "God preserve us, I cannot avoid her!" With her head bent slightly, as though
in a revery, she came along. Her dark hair was as of yore combed far back from her forehead;
the dainty lines of her mouth had the same expression of silent sorrow. Alas, how well I knew
every line and feature of this kindly countenance, the soft cheeks, the great eyes, which were
not fortunate when they looked upon me--and how far away that all lay! I could not go furtively
by; little strength though I had, I stopped. Then she raised her gravely animate, dark eyes
and gazed at me with the glance of a stranger; she did not recognize me, and passed on undisturbed.
I groaned aloud and watched her as she went, shook my head in resignation to a power greater
than I, and reeled along the way I was going.

But I did not reflect on this incomprehensible meeting; like the meeting with Mariandel, it
was immediately blotted out of my consciousness, and I asked myself after Mara. Where was she?
Where was she seeking me! What is she likely to be doing? I ran every which way and, seeking
to escape her, I hoped to find her.

At last I felt fatigued and wanted a resting place, where in the stillness I could dream of
her and, after the pitiful confusion of this foregathering, could try to understand her and
myself. I turned again toward the main street; I knew of a great restaurant there, in which
there was a quiet palm room with marble walls and a fountain.

When I arrived in front of the building a gray-veiled figure was crouching on the steps. I
stopped in dismay. With her hat pushed back behind her shoulders, she sat cowering forward.
Her head, covered by her gray cloak, rested upon her right arm bent at the elbow; her right
hand clasped the back of her neck and gleamed forth incredibly white and fine from under the
dull folds and wrinkles of her garment; her left hand she stretched toward me beneath her right
arm, in supplication. A beggar, it seemed, had collapsed here exhausted, and even in sleep
did not forget her necessity. I stood still and thought: "Take her in your arms! Carry her
away!" But that was not what her hand wanted.

"Do you beg for my heart?" I whispered to her. "I can put my heart into your heart, but not
into your hand!" I hurried past her into the palm room and seated myself in the darkest corner.

Mara did not follow me.

I ordered a sherbet. But for the same reason that the restless running about in the noon-day
glow had not heated me, the cool of the marble walls now made me shiver, and the sherbet gave
me such an icy thrill that I hardly touched it. Nevertheless, I did not dare to go out again.
I could not another time pass the figure on the steps. I sat there in agony, and against my
will gazed into the little fountain, though the eternal tossing of its little ball and its
splashing were a torture to me. So I was a captive. Had she come in, she would have seen me
prostrate at her feet, and that was my sole desire.

Against what, then, was I struggling? Does one struggle against love? Is not that insanity?

When my time was up, I forced myself to arise, and stepped out, in deep shame and anxiety.
She was no longer there. I stared in amazement at the spot where she had sat and hastened despairingly
for home.

The evening passed and my work with it. The boys went to bed, Donna Leocadia disappeared in
her quarters, her bolt snapped like a gun-shot into its socket, and I did not even smile. Voices
could still be heard coming from the bedroom, and I did not call for silence.

I was as wide-awake as I had hardly been in the morning; to what end should I lie down to rest?
After I had turned out the light, I seated myself in the large reading room--its windows and
door opening on the courtyard had not been closed--on a little school bench, and abandoned
myself to my thoughts.

Where was I? Was I sitting here, watching the first moonbeam glide across the floor? Was I
roaming in the park? Was I loitering about the city? Was my heart beating within me, so gently?
Was it not beating from some place far distant in the abyss of time? Was there not in my breast
a yearning emptiness, a painfully anxious void? Oh--I had fancied that Mara was holding out
her hand for my heart, and I must keep it: was it not in fact lying in the hollow of her hand,
unsubstantial, a shade, a particle of dust? The wind may have blown it away and dissipated it.--

And where is she? Where must I now seek her, now that I cannot dream of her?

In a broad stream the moonlight came through the windows and drove the shadows of the table
and chairs slowly and noiselessly through the room. Little mice darted out of the crevices
and around in the light and the shadow under the table, looking for crumbs; their coats glistened
often like soft silk, and their little eyes gleamed like black diamonds. They scampered helter-skelter,
they squeaked, they sat upon their hind legs, and feasted merrily. Suddenly they scattered
and disappeared. In from the courtyard came rushing a great rat with a great pattering of his
claws on the floor; he dragged his tail behind him as though it were some lifeless thing. He
went hither and thither. his greedy eyes shone like black glassy beads; finally he crossed
the threshold to the corridor, and remained sitting hard by, but invisible; only the naked
tail lay like a piece of string across the threshold. I did not move. I looked away, and forgot
the rat.

I stared at the moonlight on the floor, and my thought was always one and the same. I have
never been so at my wits' end, so tortured with yearning, so wretched as at this time.

When I looked up again, Mara stood in the doorway, and fastened the splendor of her eyes upon
me. I thought that all human discontent was purged out of me. I felt no further desire, so
liberating was her appearance. If she had stayed there throughout the night, I should have
remained steadfast in her sight.

Soon she glided on, stopped in the corner opposite to me, and contemplated me with her head
strangely bowed. I did not understand her, and kept still. She came along the wall the whole
length of the room; only the hem of her garment and the tips of her red shoes glistened in
the moonlight. Now she stood before me, and looked down upon me. My eye avoided hers; for my
will was trembling heavily as a rain drop that is about to fall to earth from the tip of a
leaf. "O speak a word!" I thought fervently; "give me a sign, help me!" She remained silent.
Then I plucked up courage, looked up at her, and endured her glance, and did not yield. Finally,
she turned her eye away in sadness, shook her head, slowly turned around, and walked past the
windows, now shrouded in the sheen of blue light, now gleaming out of the shade, and left the room.

For a considerable time I sat there in horror, stared vacantly into the air, and thought, "This
is the end--the end!"

Then suddenly I felt my heart beat as hard and painfully as when a fist desperately beats upon
a gate, and covers itself with bloody wounds thereby; I jumped up, and rushed after her. Like
a shade she was already gliding through the street far in advance of me. I meant to follow
her at a certain distance; for at once the will to solve her riddle came back to me.

With no apparent end in view she walked through several streets, which were filled with the
smoke of the nightly rubbish fires; then she turned out of the city in the direction of the
park. I thought to myself, "She knows that you are following her, and will not give herself
away." And that pleased me with a new sense of community with her.

I found the gate to the park, through which she had just passed, only half closed. I could
not catch sight of her in the silvery twilight of the umbrageous garden. Hastily I ran across
grass plots and flower beds to the fountain, which filled the air with the mighty noise of
its waters, and heavily as silver splashed down into the black pool.

She was not here.

Oppressed with eagerness I circled the pool and searched at the erythrina. Here my footstep
roused her; like a gray moth she fled to the bamboo alley, and through the nocturnal vault
farther and farther away. I could not overtake her; and when we were once more in the bright
moonlight, I sank exhausted by my mad hurry, and in despair I cried, "Mara!"

Then she paused, turned about, and, holding the palms of her hands at her breast, as though
carrying something, she slowly drew near. Her eyes gleamed in soft pearly lustre, and rolled
anxiously. When she stood before me I felt my strength sweetly restored to me; I kissed Mara's
shadow in the grass and got up groaning. Then I saw something in her hands glowing like purple
wine, and knew at once that it was my heart. I tried to seize it. She drew back and glided
away from me.

"Give it me!" I cried in frightful need, "Give it me!"

But she fled. Then I snatched my dagger from its sheath, and with the last ounce of my strength
hurled it after her; it whirred like a silver arrow through the moonlight and pierced her back.
Seeing her fall, I myself plunged down; my senses left me.

I awoke in a strange room. Traversing the park in the early morning, the head gardener had
found my dagger sticking in the ground, and farther on had found me; and when he failed to
rouse me, had had me taken to his home and put to bed. Two days and nights I had lain in a
heavy sleep; now they had by force to prevent me from rising from bed, and had to compel me
to take nourishment and submit to nursing. Raising myself on my stiff arms, I sat upright in
bed, and gazed with wide-open, restless eyes out among the trees in the park, until, exhausted,
I once again sank back and fell asleep.

                             HERMANN HESSE

                              * * * * * *

                        IN THE OLD "SUN" On the serpentine windings of the path as it goes up
the hill the sun always lies warm. The place is sheltered from every
wind. A few gnarled old fruit-trees give not indeed fruit but a little
shade, and the border of the road, a green strip of smooth surf,
entices you in the friendliest way by its soft curves to sit down or to
stretch yourself at full length. The white path gleams in the sunlight
as it climbs slowly and easily, sending a thin cloud of dust up to
greet every farm-wagon or landau or post-chaise; and it gives a view
over a steep huddle of dark roofs, broken here and there by the tops of
trees, down into the heart of the town--to the market-place, which
indeed, seen from here, loses a good deal of its impressiveness, and
appears only as a peculiarly fore-shortened rectangle of irregular
houses and curiously protruding front steps and cellar doors.

On such mild, sunshiny days the comfortable turf border of this lofty hill-climbing path is
always occupied by a small troop of resting men, whose bold, weather-beaten faces do not entirely
harmonize with their tame and sluggish gestures, and the youngest of whom is well up in the
fifties. They sit or lie at their ease in the warm greenness; they are silent, or carry on
short, muttered conversations; they smoke short black pipes, and are continually spitting,
with an air of contempt for the world, down the steep slope below them. The few workmen who
pass by are sharply observed by them and critically placed; and each, according to the verdict,
is greeted with a benevolent nod and "How are you, comrade?" or allowed to pass in disdainful
silence.

A stranger who watched the old men lounging there, and inquired in the first street he came
to about the odd collection of gray idlers, could learn from any child that they were known
as the "Sun-Brothers." Many such strangers turned to look back once more at the weary group
blinking in the sunlight, and wondered how they came to get such a lofty-sounding and poetical
name. Some traveling enthusiasts felt a mysterious thrill at the name, and made out of the
half-dozen gray loafers the surviving remnants of an almost extinct and very ancient community
of worshippers of the orb of day. But the luminary after which the Sun-Brothers had been named
had long ceased to shine in any sky; it was only the sign of a miserable tavern which had vanished
several years before. Both sign and fame had disappeared, for the building served later as
the city poorhouse, still harboring, indeed, numerous guests who had lived to see the setting
of the sun taken down from the sign, and had acquired at its bar the reversion of their present
shelter and guardianship.

The small house stood last in the steep lane and in the town, close to this sunny strip of
turf. It offered a warped and weary front to the eye, as though it was a considerable effort
to stand upright, and had nothing now about it to show how much merriment and cheerful clinking
of glasses, joking and laughter it had seen, to say nothing of lively brawls and knife-play.
Since the old pink paint of the front had grown pale and peeled off in cracked patches, the
ancient abode of vagabonds corresponded accurately in its external appearance to its purpose,
which is not always the case with municipal buildings in our day. Plainly and honestly, even
eloquently, it gave every one to understand that it was a refuge for those who had made shipwreck
of their lives and been left behind in the race, the desperate end of a narrow backwater from
which no plans or hidden resources could ever work them out again into the stream of life.

Fortunately, little of the melancholy of such reflections was to be found in the circle of
the Sun-Brothers. Rather, they--most of them--went on living after the fashion of their bygone
days, puffed up their petty bickerings and fancies and amusements, friendships and jealousies,
to the dimensions of weighty events and affairs of state, and took not each other but themselves
as seriously as possible. In fact, they behaved as if it was only now, since they had extricated
themselves from the noisy streets of the bustling world, that the chase was beginning; they
carried on their insignificant affairs with a gravity and a tenacity which for the most part
they had never been able to attain in their earlier activities. Like many another small collection
of men, although they were ruled on the principles of absolute monarchy by the head of the
institution and treated as mere imaginary existences without rights, they believed themselves
to be a small republic, in which every free citizen had the same title to rank and position
as another and was firmly determined never to allow himself to be too little esteemed, even
by a hair's breadth.

The Sun-Brothers had this too in common with other people, that they experienced the greater
part of their destinies and satisfactions, their joys and sorrows, more in imagination than
in tangible reality. A humorist might indeed have considered the difference between the life
of these wrecks of humanity and that of busy citizens as consisting only in imagination, since
both alike carried on their large and small affairs with the same busy gravity, and in the
last resort an unfortunate inmate of the poorhouse might possibly not be much worse off in
God's eyes than many a great and honored personage. But without going as far as that, it might
well be contended that for the easygoing observer of life these Sun-Brothers were no unworthy
object of contemplation, since human life, even upon a small stage, always offers an amusing
drama and one well worth consideration.

The nearer the time approaches when the present generation will have forgotten the name of
the old "Sun" tavern and the Sun-Brothers, and its poor and outcast members will be cared for
in other places, the more desirable it is that there should be a history of the old house and
its inmates. As a contribution to such a chronicle, these pages will narrate something of the
life of the first Sun-Brothers.

In the days when the present young men of Gerbersau were still wearing short breeches or even
dresses, and when over the door of the present poorhouse there still swung proudly from the
pink facade, at the length of a wrought-iron arm, the tin sun which was its ensign, one day
late in autumn Karl Hürlin came back to his native town. He was the son of Hürlin the locksmith
in the Senfgasse, who was long since dead. He was a little more than forty, and no one knew
him any longer, since he had wandered away as a very young man and had never since been seen
in the town. Now, however, he wore a good, neat suit of clothes, a moustache and well-trimmed
hair, a silver watch-chain, a stiff hat and a high clean collar. He visited some of the former
acquaintances of his family and a few old school friends, and bore himself in general as a
man who had gone away and risen in the world, conscious of his value without over-emphasis.
Then he went to the town hall, exhibited his papers, and declared that he intended to settle
down in the place. After the necessary preliminaries had been accomplished, Herr Hürlin developed
a busy and mysterious activity and correspondence, often took little journeys, and bought a
piece of ground at the bottom of the valley. He began to build there, on the site of an oil-works
that had burned down, a new brick house, a stable and coachhouse near it, and between the stable
and the house a huge brick chimney. In the meantime he was seen now and then in the town taking
his glass of an evening. At the beginning he was quiet and dignified, but after he had had
a few glasses he would talk loud and emphatically, and made no secret of the fact that he had
money enough to live a fine gentleman's life--but that one man was a thick-headed idler and
another a genius and a man of business, that he belonged to the latter class and had no idea
of sitting down to rest until he was able to write six ciphers after the figures that denoted
his wealth.

Business people from whom he asked credit inquired into his history, and found out that up
to that time he had never played an important part, but had been employed in various workshops
and factories, rising finally to be a foreman. Lately, however, he had fallen into a tidy inheritance;
and so people accorded him a certain measure of respect, and a few enterprising men put money
also into his business. Soon, then, a moderately large and good-looking factory arose, in which
Hürlin proposed to turn out certain rollers and other machinery required in the woolen industry.

Hardly was the place opened when its projector was sued by the same firm for which he had been
overseer, on a charge of illegally representing as his own inventions and using some technical
secrets which he had acquired there. He came out of the endless litigation without discredit
but with heavy costs; he pushed his business with redoubled zeal, lowering his prices somewhat
and flooding the country with advertisements. Orders were not lacking, the big chimney smoked
night and day, and for a few years Hürlin and his factory flourished, and enjoyed respect and
ample credit.

He had attained his ideal and fulfilled his old dream. It was true that in his earlier years
he had made more than one attempt to acquire wealth, but it was the almost unexpected inheritance
which had set him on his feet and enabled him to carry out his bold plans. Riches had not been
his only aim; his warmest desires had all along tended toward the acquisition of a great and
commanding position in the world. He would have been in his element as an Indian chief, as
a privy councillor, or even as a master-huntsman; but the life of a factory-owner seemed to
him both more comfortable and more independent. A cigar in the corner of his mouth and a grave
and thoughtful smile upon his face, standing at the window or sitting at his desk to issue
all sorts of orders, to sign contracts, to listen to suggestions and requests, to combine the
wrinkled brow of the very busy man with an easy, comfortable manner, to be now unapproachably
strict and now good-naturedly condescending, and at all times to feel that he was a leader
of men and that much depended on him--this was his gift, which unfortunately had come only
too late in life to full exercise. But now he had his desire to the full; he could do as he
pleased, set people up or put them down, heave delightful sighs over the burden of wealth,
and feel that he was envied by many. All this he enjoyed with a connoisseur's pleasure and
with entire absorption; he wallowed in happiness, and felt that fate had at last given him
the place that belonged to him.

In the meantime, the rival at whose expense he had grown great, made a new discovery, the introduction
of which showed a number of the earlier products to be useless and turned out others much more
cheaply. Since Hürlin, for all his self-confidence, was not a genius and understood only the
externals of his trade, he descended at first slowly and then with increasing rapidity from
his height of success, and finally reached a point where he was unable to conceal from himself
that he was beaten. In desperation, he tried some daring financial expedients, through which
he involved himself and a number of creditors with him in a complete and unsavory bankruptcy.
He fled, but was caught and brought back, tried, and sent to jail; and when after several years
he appeared once more in the town it was as a discredited and broken man who could not hope
to make a fresh start.

For a while he found humble occupations; but in the sultry days when the storm was gathering
he had developed into a secret drinker--and what had then been concealed and little regarded
became now a public scandal. Dismissed from a small clerk's place for untrustworthiness, he
became an insurance agent, and in this capacity took to visiting all the taverns of the neighborhood.
He lost this employment too, and, when an attempt to peddle matches and pencils from house
to house also failed to produce an income, he sank to be a charge on the community. In these
years he had become suddenly old and wretched; but from the days of his ruined splendor he
had retained a certain provision of small arts and an external manner which helped him over
some rough places and still produced their effect in the lower class of public-houses. He took
with him to these places certain majestic and sweeping gestures and well-sounding habits of
speech which had long corresponded to no inner reality, but on the strength of which he still
enjoyed a standing among the good-for-nothings of the town.

At that time there was no poorhouse in Gerbersau; but people who were of no use to the community
were maintained at a small provision from the town funds here and there in private families
as lodgers. Here they were furnished with the absolute necessities of life and employed according
to their capacity in small domestic labors. Since, however, all sorts of inconveniences arose
from this system, and since no one at all was willing to receive the broken-down manufacturer,
who enjoyed the hatred of the whole population, the community saw itself compelled to establish
a special house as an asylum. And as at that particular moment the miserable old "Sun" tavern
came under the hammer, the town acquired it and placed there as the first inmate, with a manager,
Karl Hürlin. Others soon followed him; and they became known as the "Sun-Brothers."

Now Hürlin had long had close relations with the "Sun," since in the course of his decline
he had frequented always lower and more wretched places, and finally had made his main headquarters
there. He was expected among the daily visitors, and sat in the evenings at the same table
with several boon companions who, when their time too came, were to follow him as despised
paupers into the very same house. He was really glad to take up his abode there. In the days
after the purchase of the property, when carpenters were busy transforming the old place to
its new condition, he stood watching them from morning till night.

One mild, sunshiny morning he had arrived there as usual and taken up his position near the
main door to watch the workmen at their task inside. One of the floors was broken and had to
be relaid, the rickety stairs had to be patched up and provided with a firm balustrade, a couple
of thin partitions put in. The town foreman was getting after the workmen, who were simulating
great industry, and the school-children were wandering from room to room. All this activity
delighted old Hürlin. He looked on with cheerful interest, pretending not to hear the malicious
remarks of the workmen; he plunged his hands into the deep pockets of his greasy coat, and
twisted his charity trousers, much too long and wide for him, into various spiral forms in
which his legs looked like corkscrews. He pulled continually at a chipped clay pipe, which
was not lit but still smelt of tobacco. His approaching entry into his new abode, from which
he promised himself a new and fairer existence, filled the old drunkard with delighted curiosity
and excitement.

While he was watching the laying of the new stairs and silently estimating the quality and
probable durability of the thin pine boards, he suddenly felt himself pushed to one side. As
he turned in the direction of the street, he saw a workman with a large step-ladder which with
great care and many props he was attempting to set up on the sloping surface of the street.
Hürlin betook himself to the opposite side of the street, leaned against a stone, and followed
the activity of the workman with great attention. The latter had now set up his ladder and
made it secure; he climbed it and began to scratch about in the mortar over the main door with
a view of taking down the old sign. His efforts filled the ex-manufacturer with interest and
also with pain, as he thought of the bygone days, of the many glasses of wine or spirits he
had drunk under the now disappearing sign, and of the past in general. He took no little joy
in observing that the iron arm was so firmly fixed in the wall that the workman had much trouble
in getting it loose. Under the poor old sign there had been so many infernally good times!
When the workman began to swear, the old man smiled; when he pulled and pushed and twisted
and knocked, when he began to sweat and almost fell off the ladder, the spectator felt no little
satisfaction. Finally he went away, and came back in a quarter of an hour with an iron-saw.
Hürlin perceived that now it was all over with the venerable ensign. The saw bit shriekingly
into the good iron; after a few moments the arm began to droop, and finally fell with a rattle
and a clang on the pavement.

Hürlin crossed the street. "I say, Mr. Workman," he begged humbly, "give me the thing; it's
of no value now."

"Why? Who are you?" asked the fellow.

"I'm of the same religion," answered Hürlin entreatingly--"my father was a locksmith too, and
I've been one in my time. Give it me, won't you?"

The workman picked up the sign and looked at it. "The arm is still good," he decided. "For
its time it was not a bad piece of work. But if you want the tin thing, that's no use to anybody
..."

He tore away the green tin wreath in which, with long since dimmed and lumpy rays about it,
the golden sun had hung, and gave it to him. The old man thanked him and made off with his
prize, to hide it in the elder-bushes further up with a strange greed and pleasure in the thought
of contemplating it. So, after a lost battle, a paladin might have hidden the insignia of fallen
royalty, to preserve them for other days and new glories. When he returned, to recommence his
inspection of the carpenters' work, the house struck him as changed and desolate because the
sun was gone, and in its place over the door there was nothing but an ugly hole in the plaster.

A few days later, without much pomp or ceremony, the opening of the scantily-furnished poorhouse
took place. A few beds had been put up; the rest of the furniture was the product of the tavern-keeper's
sale, except that a supporter of the scheme had decorated each of the three bedrooms with a
Bible text surrounded by wreaths of flowers painted on cardboard. For the position of manager,
when it was put up to competition, there had not been many applicants; and the choice had fallen
upon Herr Andreas Sauberle, a widowed weaver of good repute, who brought his loom with him
and continued to work at his trade--the position was not very remunerative, and he had no desire
to become a Sun-Brother himself in his old age.

When old Hürlin had his room assigned to him, he at once began a minute examination of it.
He found a window looking on the small courtyard, two doors, a bed, a chest, two chairs, a
jar, a broom and duster; further, a shelf in the corner covered with oilcloth, on which stood
a glass, a tin basin, a clothesbrush and a New Testament. He felt the stout bedclothes, tried
the brush on his hat, held up glass and basin critically to the light, sat down experimentally
on both the chairs, and decided that all was satisfactory and in order: Only the impressive
text on the wall failed to meet with his approval. He contemplated it for awhile with a scornful
expression, read the words, "Little children, love one another," and shook his bushy head discontentedly.
Then he pulled the thing down, and with great care hung the old "Sun" sign in its place--the
only piece of property he had brought with him to his new dwelling. But just as he did so the
manager came in, and ordered him in a tone of rebuke to put back the text. He was going to
take the tin sun with him to throw it away, but Karl Hürlin clung to it desperately, insisting
with loud outcries on his rights of property, and finally hid the trophy, still growling, under
his bed.

The life that began on the following day did not quite correspond to his expectations and at
first did not please him at all. He was obliged to rise at seven and go to get his coffee in
the weaver's quarters, then make his bed, clean his wash-basin, polish his boots, and generally
tidy up the room. At ten o'clock there was a piece of black bread for him, after which began
the forced labor which he dreaded. A huge pile of wood had been dumped in the yard, which was
all to be sawed and split.

As winter was still a long way off, Hürlin did not hurry himself with the wood. Slowly and
carefully he laid a log in position, then he adjusted it with great accuracy, and considered
awhile where he should begin to saw it, whether in the middle or on the right or the left.
Then he applied the saw with the same care, laid it aside once more, spat on his hands and
picked it up again. Now he took three or four strokes, cutting half an inch into the wood,
but then drew the saw out again and examined it minutely, turned the screw, set it a little
sharper, held it up and blinked at it for awhile, then heaved a deep sigh and rested for a
time. Presently he began again and sawed a few inches into the wood; but he grew unbearably
warm and stopped to take off his coat. This process he performed slowly and with reflection,
and then looked about some time for a clean and safe place to put it. When it was properly
bestowed, he began to saw once more--but not for long; the sun had come up over the roof, and
shone directly in his face. This necessitated moving the log and the trestle and the saw, each
separately, to another place where he could be in the shade. This exertion brought out the
perspiration, and he was obliged to look for his handkerchief to wipe his forehead. It was
not in his trousers pocket; he remembered having it in his coat, and so he strolled over to
where he had put the coat, spread it out carefully, sought and found the colored handkerchief,
wiped off the sweat, blew his nose, put the handkerchief away, folded the coat with great attention,
and returned to his saw-horse much refreshed. Here he came to the conclusion that he had perhaps
set the saw at too sharp an angle, and so he performed a new operation upon it which took some
time, and finally, with much grunting, achieved the complete division of the log into two pieces.
By this time the midday bells were ringing from the church-tower, so he quickly got into his
coat, put the saw away, and went into the house to dinner.

"You're punctual, I'm bound to say that for you," remarked the weaver. The woman brought in
the soup, after which there was some cabbage with a slice of bacon, and Hürlin fell to with a will.

After dinner the sawing was supposed to continue, but this he declined with emphasis. "I'm
not accustomed to it," he said in an injured tone, and stuck to it. "I'm tired out, and must
have a little rest."

The weaver shrugged his shoulders and said "Do as you like--but a man that won't work must'nt
expect any supper. At four o'clock there'll be bread and cider, if you've done your sawing--otherwise
nothing more till the soup at night."

Franz Wilhelm Voigt

Bread and cider, thought Hürlin, and was confronted with a very serious problem. In the end
he went out and picked up the saw again; but he shuddered at the thought of working in the
hot midday hours, and he let the wood lie where it was. He went out in the street, found a
cigar-stump on the pavement, put it in his mouth, and slowly covered the fifty paces to the
bend in the road. There he stopped to take breath, sat down by the roadside on the fine warm
turf, looked out over the many roofs and down to the market-place, catching a glimpse at the
bottom of the valley of his old factory, and dedicated this place as the first of the Sun-Brothers--the
place to which afterward so many of his comrades and successors have come to lounge away their
summer afternoons, and often mornings and evenings as well.

The gentle, beneficent contemplation of an old age free from cares and troubles, which he had
promised himself in the poorhouse, and which that morning had faded under the pressure of hard
work like a fair mirage, now returned gradually to him. His heart soothed by the feeling of
a pensioner assured for the rest of his days from anxiety, hunger, and homelessness, he sat
at his ease on the turf, feeling the pleasing warmth of the sun on his withered skin. He gazed
over the scene of his former activities and misfortunes, and waited without impatience till
some one should come who would give him a light for his cigar-stump. Shrill hammering from
a workshop, the distant ring of the anvil in a smithy, the low rumbling of a far-away wagon
came up to his heights with a little dust from the road and thin smoke from chimneys of all
sizes, to show him that down in the town people were bravely toiling and sweating, while Karl
Hürlin sat peacefully untroubled on his throne at a dignified distance from it all.

About four o'clock he came quietly into the room of the weaver, who was moving his shuttle
regularly back and forth. He waited a while to see if there might not, after all, be some bread
and cider, but the weaver only laughed at him and sent him away. He returned disappointed to
his post of observation, growling to himself; there he put in an hour or more in a sort of
half sleep, and then watched the coming of evening to the narrow valley. It was still warm
and comfortable up there, but his cheerful mood departed little by little; in spite of his
slackness, he began to get horribly bored doing nothing, and his thoughts returned incessantly
to the snack that he had missed. He saw a tall glass full of cider standing in front of him,
yellow and sparkling and perfumed with sweet herbs. He imagined how he would have taken it
up, the cool round glass, and gulped down a good draught at the first, drinking then more sparingly.
He gave an angry sigh as often as he woke from the delightful dream; and his anger went out
against the pitiless manager, the weaver, the miserable skinflint, the little stumpy fellow,
the oppressor, the seller of his soul, the poisonous Jew. After he had fumed enough at the
manager, he began to be sorry for himself and fell into a tearful mood; but finally he made
a resolution to work the next day.

He did not see how the valley grew paler and filled with soft shadows, and how the clouds took
on a rosy tint; he was blind to the mild, sweet evening colors of the sky and the mysterious
blue that came over the distant mountains. He saw nothing but that lost glass of cider, the
toil that waited inevitably for him on the morrow, and the hardness of his lot. Those were
the kind of thoughts he had been used to having when he had passed a day without getting anything
to drink. What it would be like to have a glass of something stronger than cider was a thing
he did not even dare to think about.

Stooping and languid, he made his way down to the house at supper-time, and took his seat ill-humoredly
at the table. There was soup, bread, and onions, and he ate grimly as long as there was anything
on his plate; but there was nothing to drink. After the meal he sat still disconsolately and
did not know what to be at. Nothing to drink, nothing to smoke, no one to gossip with! For
the weaver was working busily by lamplight, paying no attention to him.

Hürlin sat for a half hour at the empty table, listening to the click of Sauberle's machine
and staring at the yellow flame of the hanging lamp, until he sank into an abyss of discontent,
self-pity, envy, hatred and malice from which he neither sought nor found any way of escape.
At last his silent anger and hopelessness grew too much for him. He raised his fist and brought
it down on the table with a bang, rolling out a good German oath.

"Here!" said the weaver, coming over to him. "What's the matter with you? No cursing allowed
where I am."

"Well, what in the devil's name am I to do?"

"Oh, you find the evening long? Then go to bed."

"There you are again! People send little children to bed at a certain time--not me!"

"Then I'll get a little work for you."

"Work? You're too free with your tyranny, you old slave-driver!"

"Come, keep cool! But there--there's something for you to read." He put out a couple of volumes
from the thinly-furnished shelves that hung on the wall, and went back to his work. Hürlin
had no inclination to read, but he took one of the books in his hand and opened it. It was
an almanac, and he began to look at the pictures. The first was a fantastically dressed ideal
woman's figure depicted as an ornament for the title-page, with bare feet and flowing locks.
Hürlin remembered that he had a stump of lead-pencil in his pocket. He took it out, wet it
in his mouth, and drew two large round breasts on the woman's bodice, which he continued to
emphasize, wetting his pencil again and again, until the paper was almost worn through. Then
he turned the page and saw with satisfaction that the impress of his artistic design had gone
through several other pages. The next picture on which he came illustrated a fairy-story, and
represented a kobold or some malicious spirit with evil eyes, a fierce moustache and a huge
open mouth. Eagerly the old man wet his pencil again, and wrote under the monster, in large,
legible letters, "This is Weaver Sauberle, the manager."

He was proposing to go through the whole book and deface and defile it all. But the next picture
arrested his attention, and he forgot himself in studying it. It represented the explosion
of a factory, and consisted of little beyond a huge mass of smoke and fire, around and above
which whole or fragmentary human bodies, bricks, plaster, laths, and beams were flying through
the air. This interested him, and led him into trying to reconstruct the whole story, and especially
to imagine how the victims must have felt at the moment of being hurled into the air. There
was a charm and a satisfaction in this for him which held him intent on the picture a long
time; with all his egoism, he belonged to the numerous class who find more to think about in
other people's fate, especially when it is strikingly illustrated, than in their own.

When he had exercised his imagination sufficiently on this exciting picture, he went on turning
over the pages, and presently came to another that arrested him, though in quite a different
way. It was a bright and cheerful picture--a pretty arbor, on the outer boughs of which hung
a star for a sign. On the star sat, with ruffled neck and open beak, a little bird singing.
Inside the arbor was to be seen, about a rough rustic table, a small group of young men, students
or roving journeymen, who chatted and drank a good wine out of cheerful-looking bottles. To
one side of the picture was visible a ruined castle raising its towers to heaven, and in the
background a fair landscape stretched away, as it might have been the Rhine valley, with a
river and boats and distant hills. The revellers were all handsome youths, merry and amiable
lads, smooth-faced or with light youthful beards, who were evidently singing over their wine
the praises of friendship and love, of the good old Rhine and of God's blue heaven.

At first this engraving reminded the morose and lonely man who looked at it of his own better
days, when he, too, could call for a bottle of wine, and of the many glasses of good sound
stuff which he had consumed. But by degrees the conviction stole over him that he had never
been as happy and gay as these young revellers, even long ago in his light-hearted years of
wandering, when he had taken the road as a journeyman-locksmith. The summer gladness in the
arbor, the bright, good-humored faces of the young people made him sad and angry. He wondered
whether it was all the invention of a painter, idealized and false, or whether there were in
reality somewhere such arbors and such merry, carefree youths. Their smiling faces filled him
with an envious longing; the more he looked at the picture, the more he felt as though he were
looking for a moment through a small window into another world, into a fairer country and the
life of freer and more gracious men than he had ever met in his life. He did not know into
what strange kingdom he was gazing, nor that his feelings were those of people who read poetry,
and get their pleasure in the beauty of the description from the reflection how much smaller
and meaner the every-day reality is, passing into a slight, sweet sadness and longing. He did
not well understand how to extract the sweetness from this kind of sadness, and so he shut
the book, threw it angrily on the table, muttered a forced "Good night," and went up to his
room, where the moonlight lay on bed and floor and chest and was reflected in the filled wash-basin.
The deep stillness, early as the hour was, the peaceful moonlight, and the emptiness of the
room, almost too large for a mere sleeping-chamber, awoke in the rough old fellow a feeling
of unbearable loneliness, from which he escaped only after many muttered curses and some time
later into the land of slumber.

There followed days in which he sawed wood and enjoyed his afternoon refreshment, alternating
with days in which he was idle and did without it. He often sat up there by the roadside, full
of poisonous, malicious thoughts, spitting down toward the town with all the bitterness of
his unrestrained heart. The feeling he had hoped for, of being at peace in a safe haven, failed
to visit him; instead, he felt himself sold and betrayed, and either made violent scenes with
the weaver or brooded secretly in his own heart on the feeling of defeat and disgust and ennui.

Meanwhile the term for which board had been paid for one of the pensioners in private houses
expired, and one day there came to the "Sun" as a second guest, the former sailmaker, Lukas Heller.

While business reverses had made a drinker out of Hürlin, it was just the opposite with Heller.
Nor had he, like the manufacturer, fallen suddenly from the height of showy riches; he had
gone down slowly and steadily, with the necessary pauses and interludes, from an uncommon workman
to a common vagabond. His good and energetic wife had been unable to save him; rather, the
hopeless struggle had been too much for her, though she seemed much stronger than he, and she
had died--while her good-for-nothing husband enjoyed rude health, played the fool for a few
more years, and then, after he was ruined and dependent, went lazily on with no apparent diminution
of strength toward a ripe old age. Of course his conviction was that he had had bad luck with
his wife as well as with the sail-making business, and that his gifts and performances had
merited a better fate.

Hürlin had awaited this man's arrival with great eagerness, for he was growing daily more utterly
weary of being alone. But when Heller appeared, the ex-manufacturer stood on his dignity and
would scarcely have anything to do with him. He even grumbled because Heller's bed was put
in the same room with his, although he was secretly glad of it.

After supper, since his comrade seemed disposed to be so grumpy, the sailmaker took a book
and began to read. Hürlin sat opposite him and threw occasional glances of suspicious observation
at him. Once, when the reader could not help laughing at something amusing, the other was very
much tempted to ask him what it was. But as Heller looked up from his book at the same moment,
evidently willing to communicate the joke, Hürlin assumed a gloomy expression and pretended
to be wholly absorbed in the contemplation of a fly that was crawling across the table.

So they sat the whole evening through. One read, looking up occasionally as if ready for a
chat, the other watched him incessantly, only turning his eyes away haughtily when his companion
happened to raise his. The manager worked away busily until late. Hürlin's face grew more and
more sour and hostile, although he was really pleased to think he would no longer be alone
in his bedroom. When ten o'clock struck, the manager spoke: "Now you might as well be going
to bed, you two." Both rose and went upstairs.

While they were slowly and stiffly undressing in the dimly-lighted room, Hürlin thought the
time had come to enter on an inquiry into the qualities of the companion in misfortune whom
he had so long desired.

"Well, there's two of us now," he remarked, throwing his waistcoat on a chair.

"Yes," said Heller.

"It's a pig-sty, this," the other went on.

"Oh--is it?"

"Is it? I ought to know! But now there'll be a little life in it--yes."

"Say," asked Heller, "do you take your shirt off at night or keep it on?"

"In summer I take it off."

So Heller took his shirt off too, and lay down in the creaking bed. Soon he began to snore
loudly. But Hürlin's curiosity was not yet exhausted. "Are you asleep, Heller?"

"No."

"There's plenty of time.... Tell me, you're a sailmaker, aren't you?"

"I was--a master sailmaker."

"And now--?"

"And now--you must think a lot of me, to ask such silly questions."

"Oh, you needn't be so snippy! You old fool, you may have been a master sailmaker, but that's
not so much. I was a manufacturer--I owned a factory, do you understand?"

"You needn't shout at me--I knew that before. And after that, what did you manufacture?"

"What do you mean, after that?"

"You know what I mean--in jail."

Hürlin emitted a bleating laugh. "Oh, I suppose you're one of the pious kind--a psalm-singer, eh?"

"I? That's the last thing! No, I'm not pious--but at the same time I've never been in jail."

"You wouldn't have been at home there. Most of the people there are fine fellows."

"O Lord! Fine fellows of your sort? You're right--I shouldn't have liked it."

"Some people have got to talk, whether they know what they're talking about or not."

"Just what I was thinking."

"Oh, come now, be a good fellow! What made you give up the sailmaking?"

"Oh, don't bother me! The business was all right, but the devil got into it somehow. It was
my wife's fault."

"Your wife? Did she drink?"

"That would have been too much. No, I did all the drinking that was done, as is mostly the
case, not the wife. But it was her fault just the same."

"Was it? What did she do?"

"Don't ask so many questions!"

"Have you got any childen?"

"One boy--in America."

"Sensible fellow--a man's better off there."

"You'd think so--but he's always writing for money, the rascal! He's married, too. When he
went away, I said to him, 'Friedel,' I said, 'good luck to you, and take care of yourself;
do whatever you like--but if you marry, there'll be trouble.' Well, now he's got himself into
it. Say, were you ever married?"

"No--but you see man can get into trouble even without a wife--don't you think so?"

"That's according to the man. I'd have my own shop today, if it hadn't been for my fool of a wife."

"H'm--!"

"Did you say anything?"

Hürlin was silent, and pretended to be asleep. He had a premonition that if the sailmaker ever
got fairly started on the subject of his wife, there would be no end to it.

"Go to sleep, then, stupid!" cried Heller; the other did not allow himself to be drawn, but
went on deliberately taking long breaths, until he really fell asleep.

Next morning the sailmaker, who at sixty did not need so much sleep, was the first to wake.
He lay for half an hour staring at the white ceiling. Then, although he had seemed so stiff
in his movements the day before, he got out of bed as lightly and gently as a morning breeze,
stole over in his bare feet to Hürlin's bed without making a sound, and began to explore the
latter's clothes. He searched carefully through them, but found nothing except the stump of
a pencil in the waistcoat pocket, which he took out and appropriated. A hole which he discovered
in the left stocking of his companion he enlarged with the help of his two thumbs until it
was of considerable size. Then he crept quietly back to his warm bed and did not move again
until Hürlin was awake and up and had thrown a few drops of water in his face. Then he sprang
up nimbly and got into his trousers. He did not, however, hasten to finish his toilette, and
when the ex-manufacturer advised him to hurry, he said "Oh, you go on down--I'll be after you
in a minute." Hürlin did so, and Heller heaved a sigh of relief. He seized the washbasin and
emptied the clean water out of the window--for he had a horror of washing. When he had avoided
this distasteful process, he was soon ready to hasten down and get his coffee.

The making of the beds, tidying up the room, and polishing of shoes was attended to after breakfast,
of course without undue haste and with plenty of pauses for conversation. The manufacturer
found it all much more sociable and pleasant in company than alone; he began to have very friendly
feelings toward his housemate, and to congratulate himself on the prospect of a lively and
cheerful existence. Even the inevitable work seemed less terrifying than usual, and at the
manager's summons he went down to the yard with Heller, not indeed swiftly but with an almost
smiling countenance.

In spite of passionate outbursts on the part of the weaver and his constant endeavors to conquer
the reluctance of his charge, in the last few weeks the wood-pile had shown very little alteration.
It seemed almost as high and wide as ever--as though it had the blessed permanence of the widow's
cruse of oil; and the little heap of sawed bits lying in a corner, barely a couple of dozen,
looked like the result of a child's play, begun in a whim and as lightly thrown aside.

Now both the old men were to work at it. It was necessary to arrange for a combination, since
there was only one saw-horse and one saw. After a few preparatory motions, sighs, and remarks,
they conquered their inner reluctance and addressed themselves to their task. And now, unfortunately,
Karl Hürlin's glad hopes showed themselves to have been idle dreams, for the manner of working
of the two displayed the essential difference between them.

Each had his own special way of being busy. In both, alongside of the innate overmastering
laziness, a remnant of conscience exhorted timidly to work; neither of them really wanted to
work, but they wanted to be able to pretend to themselves at least that they were of some use
in the world. They strove to attain this result in different ways; and in these two worn-out
and useless fellows, whom fate had apparently destined to be brothers, there appeared an unexpected
divergence of aptitudes and inclinations.

Hürlin was master of a method by which, though he did next to nothing, he was or seemed continually
busy. The simple act of taking hold of a thing had come with him to be a highly developed manœ

uvre, owing to the way in which he associated with this small action a noticeable ritardando.
Moreover, he invented and employed, between two simple motions, as between the grasping and
applying the saw, a whole series of useless but easy intervening details, and was always concerned
in keeping actual work as far as possible from contact with his body by such unnecessary trivialities.
Thus he resembled a condemned criminal who devises this and that and the other thing that must
be done and cared for and attended to before he goes to suffer the inevitable penalty. And
so he contrived to fill the required hours with an incessant activity and to bring to them
a pretence of honest toil, without having really accomplished anything that could be called work.

In this characteristic and practical system he had hoped to be understood and supported by
Heller, and now found himself disappointed. The sailmaker, in accordance with his inner character,
followed an entirely opposite method. He worked himself up by a convulsive decision into a
foaming fury, rushed at his work as though he did not care for life, and raged at it until
the sweat flowed and the splinters flew. But this only lasted a few minutes; then he was exhausted--but
he had appeased his conscience, and rested in motionless collapse until after a certain time
the fury came upon him once more, and again he raged and steamed at his task. The results of
this fashion of working did not notably surpass those of the manufacturer's.

Under these circumstances each was bound to be an offence and a hindrance to the other. The
hasty and violent method of Heller, beginning at the wrong end, revolted the deepest feelings
of the manufacturer, while his steady sluggish appearance of doing something was just as abhorrent
to the sailmaker. When the latter fell into one of his furious attacks on the job, Hürlin stepped
back a few paces as if alarmed and looked on scornfully as his comrade puffed and panted, retaining,
however, just enough breath to reproach Hürlin for his laziness.

"Look at him," he would cry, "look at him, the good-for-nothing loafer! You like that, don't
you? to see other people doing your work! Oh yes, the gentleman is a manufacturer. I believe
you've been quite capable of sawing away four weeks on the same log!"

Neither the offensiveness nor the truth of these reproaches stirred Hürlin up very much; but
he did not let Heller get the better of him. As soon as the sailmaker, wearied out, stopped
to rest, he gave him back his accusations, finding a choice variety of ingenious terms of abuse
to describe him, and threatening to hammer on his thick head until he should be in condition
to mistake the world for a dish of mashed potatoes and the twelve apostles for a band of robbers.
It never came, of course, to the execution of these threats; they were merely rhetorical exercises,
and neither of the adversaries regarded them in any other light. Now and then they brought
charges against each other before the manager; but Sauberle was wise enough to decline to interfere.
"You fellows," he said crossly, "are not school-children any longer. I'm not going to mix myself
up with such squabbles--and there's an end of it!"

In spite of this, both of them came again, each for himself, to complain to him. Thereupon
one clay the manufacturer got no meat for his dinner; and when he defiantly asked for it, the
weaver said merely "Don't get so excited, Hürlin; there must be penalties now and then. Heller
has told me what you've been saying to him again this morning." The sailmaker was not a little
triumphant over this unexpected victory; but at supper the thing was reversed--Heller got no
soup; and the two sly dogs realized that they were beaten at their own game. From that time
on there was no more tale-bearing.

But between themselves they gave each other no peace. Only now and then, when they crouched
side by side on the turf by the roadside and stretched their wrinkled necks to look after the
passers by, a temporary soul-brotherhood grew up between them, as they discussed the ways of
the world, the weaver, the system of caring for the poor, and the wretchedly thin coffee in
their abode, or exchanged their slender stock of ideas--which with the sailmaker consisted
in a conclusive psychology of women, with Hürlin in recollections of his travels and fantastic
plans for financial speculations on a grand scale.

"You see, when a fellow gets married--" that was how Heller always began. And Hürlin, when
it was his turn, opened with "If I knew anybody who would lend me a thousand marks," or "Once
upon a time, when I was down at Solingen." He had worked there for three months many years
ago; but it was remarkable how many things had happened to him or come under his notice in
Solingen.

When they had talked themselves out, they sucked silently at their usually empty pipes, folded
their arms about their thin knees, spat at irregular intervals on the road, and stared past
the gnarled old apple-trees down into the town whose outcasts they were, and whom in their
folly they held responsible for their misfortunes. Then they became gloomy, sighed, made discouraged
gestures with their hands, and realized that they were old and played out. This always lasted
until their dejection changed again into malice, which generally took half an hour. Then, as
a rule, it was Lukas Heller who opened the ball, at first with some little teasing remark.

"Just look down there!" he would cry, pointing toward the valley.

"What is it?" growled the other.

"You don't need to ask--I know what I see."

"Well, what do you see, in the devil's name?"

"I see the cylinder-factory that used to be Hürlin & Schwindelmeier, now Dallas & Co. Rich
men they are, I'm told--rich men!"

"Oh, go to the deuce!" growled Hürlin.

"Thank you!"

"Do you want to make me out a swindler?"

"No need to make you one!"

"You dirty old sail-cobbler!"

"Jail-bird!"

"You're an old drunkard!"

"Drunkard yourself! You've got no call to abuse decent people!"

"I'll knock in half a dozen of your teeth!"

"And I'll make you walk lame, my fine fellow. Bankrupt!"

Then the fight was on. After exhausting all the terms of abuse usual in the locality, the imagination
of both rascals would invent new ones of the most audacious sort, until this capital too was
used up, and the two fighting-cocks would totter back to the house, exhausted and embittered.

Neither had any dearer wish than to get the better of the other and make him feel his superiority;
but if Hürlin had the better brain, the sailmaker was the more cunning--and since the weaver
took no side, neither could claim a real triumph over the other. Both longed ardently to attain
a position of superior consideration in the house; and they employed for this purpose so much
energy, caution, thought, and secret obstinacy that with the half of these either of them,
if he had put it to use at the right time, might have kept his bark afloat instead of becoming
a Sun-Brother.

In the meantime the huge pile of wood in the yard had slowly become smaller. What remained
had been left for another time, and other employments had been taken up. Heller sometimes worked
by the day in the mayor's garden, and Hürlin was occupied under the manager's supervision in
washing salad, picking lentils, shelling beans and the like--tasks in which he was not required
to overexert himself, and yet could feel he was being useful. Under these conditions the feud
between the two brethren seemed slowly healing, since they never worked together the whole
day, and in their leisure hours each had enough to complain of and to report. Each of them
imagined, too, that he had been selected for this particular work on account of special aptitudes
which gave him a certain superiority over the other. So the summer drew along, until the leaves
began to turn brown, and the evenings on which one could do without a light until nine o'clock
were no more.

At this time it happened to the manufacturer, as he was sitting alone on the doorstep one afternoon
and sleepily contemplating the world, to see a strange young man come down the hill who asked
the way to the town hall. Hürlin was civil out of sheer boredom, went a couple of streets with
the stranger, answered his questions, and was presented for his trouble with two cigars. He
asked the next wagon-driver for a light, lit one of them, and returned to his shady place on
the doorstep, where with enthusiastic delight he gave himself up to the pleasure, long unknown,
of smoking a good cigar. The last of it he put into his pipe and smoked it until there was
nothing left but ashes and a few brown drops. In the evening, when the sailmaker came from
the mayor's garden, with, as usual, plenty to relate about the pear-cider and white bread and
radishes he had had for his lunch, and how splendidly they had treated him, Hürlin also recounted
his adventure with long-winded eloquence, to Heller's great envy.

"And what have you done with the cigars?" he asked at once with interest.

"Smoked them," said Hürlin, haughtily.

"Both?"

"Yes, you old simpleton, both."

"Both at once?"

"No, you fool, first one and then the other."

"Is that true?"

"Why shouldn't it be true?"

"Well," said the sailmaker, who did not believe the story, quickly, "then I'll tell you something.
You're a dumb ox, and a big one at that."

"Am I? And why?"

"If you'd put one by, you'd have had something for tomorrow. Now what have you got?"

This was too much for the manufacturer. With a grin he drew the remaining cigar from his breast-pocket
and held it before the eyes of the envious sailmaker, in order to annoy him. "Do you see that?
There--I'm not such a God-forsaken idiot as you think I am!"

"Oh, so you've still got one left! Let me look at it."

"Hold on! I don't know--"

"Oh, just to look at it. I'm a judge of whether it's a good one. You'll get it back right away."
So Hürlin gave him the cigar. He turned it about in his fingers, held it to his nose and sniffed
at it awhile, and said, as he reluctantly gave it back, "There you are--it's miserable cabbage-leaf,
the kind you get two for a kreuzer."

Then there arose a discussion as to the goodness and the price of the cigar, which lasted until
they went to bed. When they were undressing, Hürlin laid his treasure on his pillow and watched
it anxiously. Heller mocked him: "Yes, take it to bed with you! Perhaps it'll have little ones."
The manufacturer made no reply; when his companion was in bed, he put the cigar carefully on
the windowsill and went to bed too. He stretched himself luxuriously, and before he went to
sleep still savored the enjoyment of the afternoon, when he had so proudly blown his smoke
out into the sunshine, and when with the fragrance something of his former splendor and consciousness
of greatness had returned to him. Just so in the old days, between his office and his workshop,
he had pulled at his long cigar and sent up careless, lordly, captain-of-industry clouds. Then
he went to sleep, and while his dreams conjured up the picture of his vanished greatness in
all its glory, he stuck up his red and swollen nose into the air with the same proud contempt
of the world as in his best days.

In the middle of the night, however, contrary to his custom, he suddenly woke up, and there
he saw in the dim light the sailmaker standing at the head of his bed, with a thin hand stretched
out toward the cigar on the window-sill.

With a cry of rage he threw himself out of bed and barred the retreat of the malefactor. For
a while no words were spoken; the two enemies stood facing each other, breathing hard but not
moving, surveying each other with piercing glances of anger, uncertain themselves whether it
was fear or excess of surprise that prevented them from having each other by the hair.

"Drop that cigar!" cried Hürlin at last, hoarsely. The sailmaker did not alter his position.
"Drop it!" shouted the other, and as Heller still did not move, he hauled off and would undoubtedly
have given him a swinging blow if the sailmaker had not ducked in time. In the movement, however,
he dropped the cigar, Hürlin tried to grasp it, Heller trod on it with his heel, and with a
light crackle it went to pieces. Then the manufacturer gave him a good one in the ribs, and
the next thing a fair tussle was on. It was the first time they had come to blows; but their
cowardice outweighed even their anger, and no serious damage resulted. Now one advanced a step,
now the other; the two naked old men circled about the room without much noise as if they were
performing some antique dance, each a hero and neither receiving a blow. This went on until
in a favorable moment the manufacturer got his hand on his empty wash-basin. He swung it wildly
over his head and brought it down forcibly on the skull of his unarmed foe. It did him no particular
harm, but the crash of the tin basin gave out a warlike and resonant sound that rang through
the whole house. At once the door opened, admitting the manager in his nightshirt, who stood
between scolding and laughing before the duelists.

"You're a pair of precious old rascals," he cried, "knocking each other about without a stitch
on you, like a couple of old he-goats! Into bed with you--and if I hear another sound, you'll
get something to be thankful for!"

"But he was stealing--" Hürlin began to shout, almost crying with rage and injured dignity,
only to be instantly interrupted and ordered to keep quiet. The he-goats retreated muttering
to their beds; the weaver listened a few moments at the door, and when he had gone all was
still in the room. By the wash-basin the fragments of the cigar lay on the floor; the pale
summer night peeped in at the window, and over the two old rogues in their deadly hatred hung
the flower-bedecked text, "Little children, love one another."

Hürlin extracted at least a minor triumph out of the affair the next day. He steadfastly refused
any longer to share the same room with the sailmaker; and after a stubborn resistance the weaver
was obliged to give in and assign Heller another room. So the manufacturer once more became
a hermit; and glad as he was to be rid of the sailmaker's company, it preyed on his spirits
to such an extent that he realized fully for the first time into what a hopeless cul de sac
fate had thrust him in his old age.

The poor old man could make no cheerful prognostications. Formerly, however badly things went,
he had at least been free; even in his most miserable days he had had a few pennies to spend
at the tavern, and could set out on his wanderings again whenever he chose. Now he sat there,
stripped of all rights and under discipline, never saw a copper that he could call his own,
and had nothing before him in the world except to become older and feebler and, when his time
came, to lie down and die.

He began to do what he had never done before--to look up and down from a high point of vantage
on the Allpach road, over the town and along the valley; to measure the white high-roads with
his eye, and watch the soaring birds and the clouds; to follow longingly with his eye the passing
wagons and the pedestrians that went up and down, as a mourning exile from their company, left
behind never to join them in their journeys. To pass the evenings, he accustomed himself now
to reading; but from the edifying histories of the almanacs and pious periodicals he often
raised a distant and depressed eye, feeling that he had nothing in common with such people
and events, recalling his young days, Solingen, his factory, the prison, the joyous evenings
in the old "Sun," and coming back always to the thought that now he was alone, hopelessly alone.

Heller, the sailmaker, cast sidelong and malicious glances at him, but after a time attempted
to reëstablish intercourse with him. When he met the manufacturer out at their resting-place,
he would occasionally put on a friendly expression and greet him with "Fine weather, Hürlin!
I think we shall have a good autumn, don't you?" But Hürlin merely looked at him, nodded wearily,
and made no sound.

In spite of all this, some thread would have gradually spun itself to link the two perverse
creatures together; out of his very melancholy and disgust, Hürlin would have grasped as for
dear life at the first comer, if only to get rid now and then of the wretched feeling of loneliness
and emptiness. The manager, who was displeased by the manufacturer's silent moroseness, did
what he could also to bring his two charges together. But finally a sort of salvation, if a
dubious one, came to all three. During the month of September there came to the house at short
intervals two new inmates--two very different ones.

One was called Louis Kellerhals; but this name was not known to anybody in the town, for Louis
had borne for decades the appellation of Holdria, whose origin is undiscoverable. When, many
years before, he had become a pensioner of the community, he had been placed with a friendly
artisan, where he had been well treated and counted as a member of the family. The artisan
had now, however, died with unexpected suddenness; and since his protégé could hardly be reckoned
as part of the inheritance he left, it was necessary for the poorhouse to receive him. He made
his entrance with a well-filled linen bag, a huge blue umbrella, and a green wooden cage, containing
a very fat common sparrow. He seemed little upset by his change of quarters; he came in smiling
and beaming with cordiality, shook every one heartily by the hand, spoke no word and asked
no questions, brimmed over with delight and kindliness when any one spoke to him or looked
at him, and even if he had not long been a well-known figure, could not have concealed for
a quarter of an hour the fact that he was a harmless and well-meaning imbecile.

The second, who made his appearance about a week later, brought with him not less joyful benevolence,
but was not weak in the head; on the contrary, though harmless enough, he was a thoroughly
cunning fellow. His name was Stefan Finkenbein; he was a member of the wandering beggars' dynasty
of the Finkenbeins, long well known throughout the whole town and neighborhood. Of this complicated
family two branches had settled in Gerbersau, counting several dozen members. They were all
without exception sharp-witted fellows; yet none of them had ever come to any notable fortune,
for it was an inseparable characteristic of their nature to love to be free as the birds and
to rejoice in the humor of having no possessions.

The said Stefan was still below sixty, and enjoyed perfect health. He was rather thin, indeed,
and his limbs were delicate; but he was always well and active, and it was something of a mystery
how he had been able to foist himself upon the community as a candidate for a place in the
poorhouse. There were plenty of people in the town older, more wretched, and even poorer. But
from the very foundation of the institution he had been consumed by a desire to enter it; he
felt himself a born Sun-Brother, and would and must be one. And now there he was, as smiling
and amiable as the excellent Holdria, but with much less extensive baggage--for besides what
he wore on his back he brought nothing but a stiff Sunday hat of old-fashioned respectable
elegance, well preserved in shape if not in color. He bore himself as a lively social light,
accustomed to the world. Since Holdria had already been assigned to Hürlin's room, he was put
in with Heller, the sailmaker. He found all his surroundings good and praiseworthy, except
that the taciturnity of his companions did not please him. One evening before supper, as all
four sat outside the door, he suddenly began: "Say, Mr. Manufacturer, are you always so mournful?
You're a regular streamer of crape!"

"Oh, don't bother me!"

"Why, what's the matter with you? Why do we all sit round, anyhow, so solemnly? We could have
a drop of something good once in a while, couldn't we?"

Hürlin gave ear for a moment with delight, and his tired eyes glistened; then he shook his
head despairingly, he turned his empty pockets inside out, and assumed an expression of suffering.

"Oh, I see--no coin!" cried Finkenbein, laughing. "Good gracious, I always thought one of those
manufacturer fellows had something jingling in his purse. But today's my first day here, and
it mustn't go dry like this. Come on, all of you--Finkenbein's still got a little capital in
his breeches for a time of need."

Both the mourners sprang to their feet at once. They left the weak-minded old fellow sitting
where he was, and the three others tottered off at a quick pace toward the "Star," where they
were soon sitting on a bench against the wall, each with a glass in front of him. Hürlin, who
had not seen the interior of a tavern for weeks and months, was full of joyous excitement.
He breathed in the atmosphere of the place in long draughts, and absorbed his liquor in short,
economical, timid sips. Like a man awakening from an evil dream, he felt that he had been restored
to life again, and welcomed home by the familiar surroundings. He brought out once more all
the half-forgotten free gestures of his old sporting days, banged thunderously on the table,
snapped his fingers, spat at ease on the floor and scraped noisily over it with his foot. Even
his manner of talking showed a sudden change, and the full-toned words of power that recalled
the days when he was a commanding figure rang out from his blue lips with something of the
old brutal security.

While the manufacturer thus renewed his youth and sunned himself in the afterglow of his old
accomplishments and his bygone happiness, Lukas Heller blinked thoughtfully at his glass and
felt that the time had come to repay the proud fellow for all his insults, and especially for
the dishonoring blow with the tin wash-basin on that memorable night. He kept quite still and
waited watchfully for the right moment.

Meantime Hürlin, as had always been his custom, began with the second glass to listen to the
conversation of his neighbors at the next table, to take part in it with nods and grunts and
play of expression, and finally to interject an occasional "Oh yes," or "Really?" He felt himself
quite restored to the beautiful past; and as the conversation at the adjoining table grew more
animated, he turned more and more to face the speakers and, as his old habit was, soon plunged
with fire into the clash of conflicting opinions. At first the other men paid no attention
to him, but presently one of them, a driver, suddenly cried out, "Lord, it's the manufacturer!
What's the matter with you, you old rascal? Be good enough to hold your tongue, or I shall
have to tell you something!"

Hürlin turned away, cast down; but the sailmaker gave him a dig in the ribs and murmured eagerly
to him, "Don't let that fellow shut you up! You tell him something, the smarty!"

This encouragement at once inflamed the sensitiveness of the manufacturer to new self-consciousness.
He banged on the table defiantly, moved a little nearer to the speaker, threw bold glances
at him, and spoke in his deep chest-tone, "A little more manners, if you please. You don't
seem to know how to behave."

Some of the men laughed. The driver answered, still good-humoredly, "Look out for yourself,
manufacturer! If you don't shut up, you may get more than you bargain for."

"I don't have to," said Hürlin with emphatic dignity, once more egged on by a nudge from the
sailmaker; "I belong here just as much as you do, and have got as good a right to talk as the
next man. So now you know!"

The driver, who had just paid for a round of drinks at his table and so felt entitled to take
the leading position, got up and came over, tired of the altercation. "Go back to the poorhouse,
where you belong!" he said to Hürlin; then he took him, shrinking in alarm, by the collar,
dragged him over to the door, and helped him through it with a kick. The others laughed, and
were of the opinion that it served the disturber right. The little incident was closed, and
they resumed their important discussion with oaths and shouts.

The sailmaker was happy. He persuaded Finkenbein to order one more little drink, and, recognizing
the value of this new associate, he bent all his endeavors to establish friendly relations
with him, to which Finkenbein yielded with a quiet smile. He had once undertaken to beg where
Hürlin was already at work on the same line, and had been forcibly warned off by him. In spite
of this, he bore no grudge against him, and declined to join in the abuse which the sailmaker
now poured out upon the absent man. He was better adapted than these who had sunk from happier
circumstances to take the world as it came and to tolerate people's little peculiarities.

"That's enough, sailmaker," he said protestingly. "Hürlin's a fool, of course, but by long
odds not the worst in the world. I'm glad we've got him to play the fool with up there."

Heller accepted the correction and hastened to adapt himself to this conciliatory tone. It
was now time to leave, so they moved along and got home just in time for supper. The table,
with five people sitting at it, had now an imposing appearance. At the head sat the weaver;
then on one side came the red-cheeked Holdria next to the thin, decayed and miserable-looking
Hürlin. Opposite them sat the cunning sailmaker with his scanty hair, and the merry, bright-eyed
Finkenbein. The latter entertained the manager successfully and kept him in good humor, from
time to time addressing a few jokes to the imbecile, who received them with a flattered grin.
When the table had been cleared off and the dishes washed, he drew a pack of cards from his
pocket and proposed a game. The weaver was disposed to forbid it, but finally gave in, on condition
that the game should only be for love. Finkenbein burst out laughing.

"Of course, Herr Sauberle. What else could it be for? I was born to millions, but they were
all swallowed up in the Hürlin stock--excuse me, Mr. Manufacturer!"

They began to play, then, and for awhile the game went along merrily, broken only by numerous
jokes from Finkenbein and by an attempt at cheating on the sailmaker's part, discovered and
exposed by the same clever person. But then the sailmaker began to feel his oats, and displayed
a tendency to make mysterious allusions to the adventure at the "Star." At first Hürlin paid
no attention; then he made angry signs to stop him. The sailmaker laughed maliciously, looking
at Finkenbein. Hürlin looked up, caught the disagreeable laugh and wink, and suddenly realized
that Heller had been the original cause of his ejection and was now making merry at his expense.
This struck him to the heart. He made a sour grimace, threw his cards on the table in the middle
of a hand, and could not be persuaded to continue the game. Heller saw what was the trouble;
he discreetly said nothing, and redoubled his endeavors to place himself on a friendly footing
with Finkenbein.

Thus the fat was in the fire again between the two old antagonists; and the discord was all
the worse because Hürlin was now convinced that Finkenbein had known of the plot and helped
it along. The latter bore himself with unchanged geniality and comradeship; but since Hürlin
now always suspected him, and took in bad part his jesting designations as "the Councillor,"
"Herr von Hürlin," and the like, the Sun-Brotherhood soon split into two parties. The manufacturer
had soon grown accustomed to the silly Holdria as a roommate and had made him his friend.

From time to time Finkenbein, who from some hidden source or other had now and then a little
money in his pocket, proposed another secret excursion to the tavern. But Hürlin, strong as
the temptation was for him, kept a stiff front and never went with them, although it hurt him
to think that Heller was thus getting the better of him. Instead, he stayed at home with Holdria,
who listened to him with radiant smiles or with large, troubled eyes when he growled and cursed
or when he drew fanciful pictures of what he would do if any one lent him a thousand marks.

Lukas Heller, on the other hand, cleverly kept up his relations with Finkenbein. It was true
that in the early days he had exposed the new friendship to grave peril. One night, in his
characteristic fashion, he had gone through his roommate's clothes, and found thirty pfennigs
in them which he appropriated. The victim of the theft, who was not asleep, watched him calmly
through his half-closed eyelids. Next morning he congratulated the sailmaker on his dexterity,
paid him high compliments, requested the return of the money, and behaved as though it had
all been a good joke. In this way he got Heller completely in his power; and although the latter
had in him a good, lively comrade, he could not pour out his complaints against Hürlin to him
quite as unrestrainedly as could Hürlin to his ally. And his diatribes against women soon became
wearisome to Finkenbein.

"That's all right, sailmaker, that's all right. You're like a hand-organ with only one tune--you
haven't any changes. As far as the women are concerned, I dare say you're right. But enough
of anything is enough. You ought to get another waltz put in--anything else, you know--otherwise
I wouldn't care if some one stole you."

The manufacturer was secure against such declarations. This was well enough, but it did not
make him happy. The more patient his auditor was, the deeper he sank in his melancholy. A few
times the sovereign light-heartedness of the good-for-nothing Finkenbein infected him for half
an hour to the extent of reviving the grand gestures and sententious utterances of his golden
days--but his hands had grown stiff, and the words no longer came from his heart. In the last
sunshiny days of autumn he sometimes sat under the decaying apple-trees; but he never looked
on town and valley now with envy or desire. His glance was far-away and strange, as if all
this meant nothing to him and was out of his range. As a matter of fact, it did mean nothing
to him, for he was visibly breaking up and had nothing more ahead of him.

His decline came on him very swiftly. It was true that soon after his downfall, in the thirsty
days when he first grew well acquainted with the "Sun," he had grown very gray and begun to
lose his agility. But he had been able for years to get about and drink many a glass of wine
and play the leading part in a conversation in the tavern or on the street. It was only the
poorhouse that had really brought him to his knees. When he had rejoiced at his installation
there, he had not realized that he was cutting off the best threads of his life. For he had
no talent for living without projects and prospects and all sorts of movement and bustle; and
it was when he had given in to weariness and hunger and abandoned himself to rest that his
real bankruptcy took place. Now there was nothing left for him but to wait a little while until
his life went out.

The fact was that Hürlin had been too long accustomed to tavern life. A gray-haired man cannot
break off old habits, even when they are vicious, without damage. His loneliness and his breach
with Heller had helped to make him increasingly silent; and when a great talker grows silent,
it means that he is well on the road toward the churchyard.

It is a depressing sight when an artist in life, even on a small scale, who has grown old in
elegant trifles and ostentation and self-seeking, instead of coming to a sudden end in a fight
or as he goes home at night from the tavern, must live on to grow melancholy and end as a dabbler
in the sentimental reflections which have always been foreign to him. But since life is incontestably
a powerful composer, and thus cannot be accused of senseless caprices, there is nothing for
it but to listen to the strains it produces, to admire, and to think the best of it. And after
all there is a certain tragic beauty in the thing when such a spirit, that has been spoiled
and left raw and then beaten down, rebels at the very end and clamors for its rights, when
it flutters its awkward wings and, since nothing else is left, insists on having its fill of
bitterness and complaint.

There was much now that came to rub and gnaw at this rude, ill-trained soul; and it became
evident that its earlier stubbornness and self-control had rested upon insecure foundations.
The manager was the first to realize his condition. To the pastor, on one of his visits, he
said with a shrug of his shoulders: "One can't really help being sorry for Hürlin. Since he's
been looking so down in the mouth, I don't make him work; but it's no use--that's not what's
troubling him. He thinks and studies too much. If I didn't know his sort too well, I should
say it was just his bad conscience, and serve him right. But that's not all of it. There's
something gnawing at him from inside--and at his age a fellow can't stand that long. We shall
see." After this the minister sat now and then with Hürlin in his room, near Holdria's green
bird-cage, and talked to him of life and death, and tried to bring some light into his darkness--but
in vain. Hürlin listened or not as his mood was, nodded or hummed, but spoke no word and grew
constantly stranger. Once in a while one of Finkenbein's jokes would appeal to him, and he
would give a dry laugh or beat on the table and nod approvingly; but immediately afterward
he would sink into himself again to listen to the confused voices that claimed his attention
and tormented him without his being able to understand them.

Outwardly he only seemed quieter and more plaintive, and all treated him much as before. The
imbecile alone, even if he had not been himself so feeble-minded, was capable of understanding
Hürlin's condition and his gradual decline and feeling a certain horror at the sight; for this
friendly and peaceful soul had become the manufacturer's constant companion and friend. They
sat together by the wooden cage, put their fingers in between the bars for the fat sparrow
to peck at, lounged of a morning, now that winter was coming on, by the half warm stove, and
looked at each other with as much comprehension as if they had been two sages instead of a
pair of poor hopeless fools. You can see at times two wild beasts locked in together looking
at each other in just the same way; according to the mood of the observer, their gaze will
seem dull, amusing, or terribly moving.

What troubled Hürlin most was the humiliation he had experienced at the "Star" through Heller's
instigation. At the very table where he had long sat almost daily, where he had spent his last
penny, where he had been a good customer, a friend of the house and a leader in debate, there
landlord and guests alike had looked on and laughed when he was kicked out. He had been forced
to feel in his own bones that he belonged there no longer, that he did not count, that he had
been forgotten and struck off the list and had no longer any shadow of rights.

For any other scurvy trick he would have avenged himself on Heller at the first opportunity.
But now he did not even bring out the accustomed words of abuse that sat so easily on his tongue.
What could he say to him? He had been entirely right. If he were still the same man as of old,
still worth anything, they would not have dared to turn him out of the "Star." He was done
for, and might as well pack up and go.

And now he looked forward to contemplate the destined straight and narrow path, an uncounted
series of empty, dull, dead days, and at the end of it death--of which he thought sometimes
with longing, sometimes with an angry shudder. It was all settled, nailed down and prescribed,
unmistakable and inevitable. There was no longer any possibility of falsifying a balance-sheet
or forging a paper, of turning himself into a stock-company, or by tortuous paths through bankruptcy
sneaking out again into life. He was no longer a firm or a name--only a worn-out old man before
whom the abyss of the infinite opened in all its terror, with the grisly skeleton silently
grinning at him to cut off his retreat. Though the manufacturer had been accustomed to many
different kinds of circumstances and knew how to find his way about in them, these were different.
Now he tried to wave them away with weak gestures of his old arms, now he buried his face in
his hands, shut his eyes, and trembled with fear of the unescapable hand which he felt descending
to grasp him.

The good-hearted Finkenbein, coming gradually to suspect that all manner of ghosts were closing
in upon the manufacturer, sometimes gave him an encouraging word, or clapped him on the shoulder
with a consoling laugh. "I say, Mr. Councillor, you oughtn't to study so much. You're quite
clever enough--in your time you got the best of plenty of rich and clever people, didn't you?
Don't be cross, millionaire--I don't mean any harm. It's just my little joke--man, think of
the holy text up over your bed!" And he would spread out his arms with a pastoral dignity,
as if in blessing, and recite with unction, "Little children, love one another!"

"Or, wait a bit," he would say again, "we'll start a savings-bank, and when it's full we'll
buy from the town its shabby poorhouse, and take the sign out and make the old "Sun" rise again,
so as to get some oil into the machine once more. What do you say to that?"

"If we only had five thousand marks--" Hürlin would begin to reckon; but the others would laugh,
and he would break off, heave a sigh, and return to his brooding.

When winter had fully come, they saw him getting more silent and restless. He had fallen into
the habit of wandering in and out of the room, sometimes grim, sometimes with a look of terror,
sometimes with one of watchful cunning. Otherwise he disturbed nobody. Holdria often kept him
company, falling into step with him in his incessant wanderings through the room, and answering
to the best of his powers the glances, gestures, and sighs of the restless rambler, always
fleeing before the evil spirits whom he could not escape because he carried them with him.
Since all his life he had loved to play a deceiver's part and played it with varying luck,
now he was condemned to play through to a desperately sad end with his harlequin-like manners.
He played miserably and absurdly enough--but at least the role corresponded to himself, and
the former poseur now for the first time came on the stage without his mask, not to his advantage.
The realization of the infinite and the eternal, the longing for the inexpressible, innate
in this soul as in others but neglected and forgotten through a whole lifetime, found now,
when it swelled up, no outlet, and attempted to express itself in grimaces, gestures, and tones
of the strangest kind, absurdly and laughably enough. But there was a real power behind it
all; and the uncomprehending desire for death was certainly the first great and, in the higher
sense, rational movement which this small soul had known for years.

Among the queer performances of a mind off the track was this, that several times a day he
crawled under his bed, brought out the old tin sun, and offered it a foolish reverence. Sometimes
he carried it solemnly before him like a holy monstrance; sometimes he set it up in front of
him and gazed upon it with entranced eyes, sometimes he smote it angrily with his fist, only
to take it up tenderly the moment after, caress it and dandle it in his arms before he restored
it to its hiding-place. When he began these symbolic farces, he lost what little credit for
intelligence remained to him among his housemates, and was put down with his friend Holdria
as an absolute imbecile. The sailmaker especially regarded him with undisguised contempt, played
tricks upon him and humiliated him whenever he could, and was seriously annoyed that Hürlin
seemed to take so little notice of him.

Once he got the tin sun away from him and hid it in another room. When Hürlin went to get it
and could not find it, he roamed through the house for a while, looking for it repeatedly in
many different places; then he addressed impotent threatening speeches to all the inmates,
the weaver not excepted; and when nothing did any good, he sat down at the table, buried his
head in his hands, and broke into pitiful sobbing which lasted for half an hour. This was too
much for the sympathetic Finkenbein. He gave a mighty box on the ear to the terrified sailmaker,
and forced him to restore the concealed treasure.

The tough frame of the manufacturer might have resisted for many more years, in spite of his
almost white hair. But the desire for death, though it was working almost unconsciously in
him, soon found its way out, and made an end to the ugly tragi-comedy. One night in December
it happened that the old man could not sleep. Sitting up in bed, he gave himself to his desolate
thoughts, staring at the dark wall, and seemed to himself more forsaken than usual. In this
mood of weariness, fear, and hopelessness he finally rose from his bed without knowing too
well what he was doing, unfastened his hempen suspenders, and hanged himself with them to the
top of the door-jamb. So Holdria found him in the morning, and the imbecile's cry of horror
soon brought the manager. Hürlin's face was just a little bluer than usual, but it was impossible
to disfigure it very much.

It was a terrible surprise, but its effect was of short duration. Only Holdria whimpered softly
over his bowl of coffee; all the others knew or felt that the manufacturer's end had come at
a good time for him, and that there was no real cause for regret or horror. And then no one
had loved him.

Of course a few penny-a-liners made haste to investigate the interesting case, and communicated
to the readers of their cheap papers, together with the necessary moralizings, the fact that
the not unknown bankrupt Karl Hürlin had made a rather suitable end as a suicide in the poorhouse.

When Finkenbein had come as the fourth inmate, there had been some complaints in the town about
the way in which the newly-founded institution was rapidly filling. Now one was gone from the
number; and though it is true that paupers are usually of robust constitution and reach a good
old age, yet it is also true that a hole seldom stays as it is, but seems to eat into the stuff
around it. So it was here, at any rate. The colony of good-for-naughts was scarcely founded
before consumption seemed to set in and went on working.

For the moment, indeed, the manufacturer seemed to be forgotten, and all went on as before.
Lukas Heller took the lead in the little community, so far as Finkenbein would allow him the
primacy, made the weaver's life a burden to him, and managed to put off half of the little
work he was supposed to do upon the willing Holdria. He was thus comfortable and cheerful;
he began to settle down as in a warm nest, and resolved not to worry under these delightful
circumstances, but to live many years for his own pleasure and the annoyance of the citizens.
Now that Hürlin was gone, he was the eldest of the Sun-Brothers. He made himself quite at home,
and had never in his life found himself so much in harmony with his environment, whose secure
though not luxurious peace and idleness left him time to stretch himself easily and to contemplate
himself as a respectable and not altogether useless member of society--of the town, and of
the world as a whole.

It was otherwise with Finkenbein. The ideal picture of a Sun-Brother's life which his lively
fancy had painted in such glowing colors was far different from what he had found the reality
to be. To be sure, to all appearance he was still the same light-footed jester as of old; he
enjoyed his good bed, the warm stove, the solid and sufficient food, and seemed to find no
fault with anything. He continued to bring back from mysterious trips into the town a few small
coins for drink and tobacco, in which he generously allowed the sailmaker to share. He was
seldom at a loss to know how to pass the time, for he knew every face up and down the road,
and was a general favorite--so that at any house or shop door, on bridge or steps, by wagons
or push-carts, as well as at the "Star" and the "Lion," he was able to enjoy a gossip with
any one who came along.

In spite of all this, he was not at ease. To begin with, Heller and Holdria were hardly satisfying
daily companions for him, who had been used to intercourse with livelier and more rewarding
people; and then he found increasingly burdensome the regularity of this life, with its fixed
hours for rising, eating, working, and going to bed. Finally, and this was the main point,
the life was too good and comfortable for him. He was trained to alternating days of hunger
with days of feasting, to sleeping now on linen and now on straw, to being sometimes admired
and sometimes browbeaten. He was used to wandering where the spirit moved him, to being afraid
of the police, to having little games with the fair sex, and to expecting something new from
each new day. He missed this poverty, freedom, movement and continual expectation here; and
he soon came to the conclusion that his admission to the house, which he had procured by many
stratagems, was not, as he had thought, his master-stroke but a stupid mistake with troublesome
and lasting consequences.

If these views led Finkenbein to a somewhat different end from the manufacturer's, it was because
he was in everything of an opposite temperament. Above all, he did not hang his head, nor did
he let his thoughts travel ceaselessly over the same empty field of mourning and dissatisfaction,
but kept them fresh and lively. He paid little heed to the future, and danced lightly from
one day into the next. He captivated the weaver, the simpleton, the sailmaker Heller, the fat
sparrow, the whole system on their humorous side, and had retained from his old life the comfortable
artist's habit of never making plans or throwing out anchors for wishes or hopes beyond the
situation of the moment. So it proved successful for him now too, since he was assured and
provided for the rest of his days, to lead the life of the birds and the flies; and it was
a blessing not only to him but to the whole house, whose daily life acquired through his presence
a touch of freedom and of elegant hilarity. This was distinctly needed--for Sauberle and Heller
had, of their own resources, hardly more than the good-natured simpleton Holdria to contribute
to the cheering and adornment of the monotonous existence.

So the days and weeks flowed along quite tolerably, and if it was not always jolly, at least
there were no more quarrels or discords. The manager worked and worried himself thin and weary;
the sailmaker greedily enjoyed his cheap comfort; Finkenbein shut one eye and lived on the
surface of things; Holdria positively bloomed in eternal peace of mind, and increased daily
in amiability, in appetite, and in weight. It would have been an idyllic state of things--but
the haggard ghost of the dead manufacturer was hovering about. The hole was destined to grow
larger.

And so it came to pass that on a Wednesday in February Lukas Heller had some work to do in
the woodshed in the morning; and since he was still unable to work in any other way than by
fits and starts and with long pauses, he came and sat down under the archway in a perspiration
and developed a cough and a headache. At midday he ate hardly half his usual amount; in the
afternoon he stayed by the stove shivering, coughing, and swearing; and by eight in the evening
he went to bed. Next morning the doctor was sent for. This time Heller ate nothing at all at
dinner; a little later fever set in, and in the night Finkenbein and the manager had to take
turns in watching by him. The next thing was that the sailmaker died, recalcitrant, envious,
and by no means patient or tranquil; and the town was rid of one more pensioner, which no one
regretted.

It was to have better luck still. In March an unusually early spring set in, and things began
to grow. From the big mountains to the ditches by the roadside, everything became green and
young; the high-road was peopled by precocious chickens, ducks, and traveling journeymen, and
birds of every size flitted through the air on joyous wings.

The growing loneliness and stillness of the house had been getting more and more on Finkenbein's
nerves. The two deaths seemed to him of evil omen, and he felt more than ever like the last
survivor on a sinking ship. Now he took to smoking and leaning out of the window by the hour
into the warmth and mild spring feelings. A sort of ferment was in all his limbs and around
his still young heart, which felt the call of spring, remembered old days, and began to consider
whether there might not be a spring for it too amidst all this universal growing, sprouting
and well-being.

One day he brought back from the town not only a packet of tobacco and the latest news, but
also, in a worn bit of waxed cloth, two new pieces of paper which were adorned with beautiful
flourishes and solemn official blue seals, but which had not been procured at the town-hall.
How should such an old, bold traveler not understand the delicate and mysterious art of producing
on nicely written documents any desired stamp, either old or new? It is not every one who knows
how to do it; it takes skilful fingers and much practice to extract the thin inner skin of
a fresh egg and spread it out without a wrinkle, to press on it the stamp of an old certificate
of residence and permit to travel, and to transfer it cleanly from the damp skin to a new paper.

One fine day, then, Stefan Finkenbein disappeared without any flourish of trumpets from the
town and the district. He took for his journey his tall, stiff hat, and left behind as a sole
memento his old woolen cap which was almost falling to pieces. The officials instituted a small
and considerate investigation. But since rumors soon came in that he had been seen in a neighboring
jurisdiction, alive and happy in a favorite resort of his kind, and since nobody had any interest
in bringing him back without necessity, standing in the way of whatever happiness he might
find, and continuing to feed him at the town's expense, it was decided to abandon the investigation
and allow the free bird, with the best of wishes, to fly wherever he chose. Six weeks later
came a postcard from him to the weaver, in which he wrote:

"Honored Herr Sauberle: I am in Bavaria. It is not so warm here. Do you know what I think you'd
better do? Take Holdria and his sparrow and show him off for money. We might both travel on
that. Then we might hang up Hürlin's sign. Your true friend, Stefan Finkenbein, Doorknob-gilder."

There might have been more trouble in the almost empty nest of fate, but the last Sun-Brother,
Holdria, was too innocent and of too sedentary a disposition. Fifteen years have gone by since
Heller's death and Finkenbein's disappearance, and the imbecile still dwells, sound and rosy-cheeked,
in the former "Sun." For a while he was the only inmate. The numerous personages who were qualified
held back discreetly and timidly for some little time; the terrible death of the manufacturer,
the swift taking off of the stout sailmaker, and the flight of Finkenbein had gradually shaped
themselves into a widely-known theory, and surrounded the dwelling of the imbecile for as much
as six months with bloody legends and tales of horror. After this period, however, need and
laziness again brought several guests to the old "Sun," and since that time Holdria has never
been alone. He has seen some curious and tiresome brothers come, share his meals, and die;
and at this moment he is the senior of a company of seven, without counting the manager. Any
warm, pleasant day you may see the whole company on the turf by the side of the hill-road,
smoking their stumpy pipes and with weather-beaten faces and various feelings looking down
on the town which in the meantime has grown considerably up and down the valley.

                               ERNST ZAHN

                              * * * * * *

                        STEPHEN THE SMITH (1906)

                     TRANSLATED BY KATHARINE ROYCE

                               Chapter I

Toward the south lay a wood, while toward the north lay another wood. Between these woodlands
spread the white, wintry plain. A road ran directly onward from the southern wood, and a road
ran just as directly outward to the black woodland on the north. This broad and snowy road,
cut by deep wheel ruts, trampled by many heavy footprints, was really all one road, but the
blacksmith's shop, which stood midway between the two woodlands, and between the two parts
of the road, seemed to cut it into two separate parts. The two colors, white and black, of
which this landscape was composed, struck the eye powerfully, almost oppressively. All day
long no other tone was to be seen but these two, but they filled so wide a space and were so
very strongly marked, that they seemed to weigh down the picture and changed the loveliness,
which it perhaps might have in summer, to mournful gloom. There stood the two black pine woods,
like the frame of the picture, between heaven and earth. The sky was white with clouds and
the earth with snow. Both the snow and the clouds were so white, that each reflected upon the
other a painfully livid brightness. The road was white, but sharply cut by the shadows that
lay in the wheel tracks and footprints. The blacksmith shop also was black and white. The shingled
roof, from which the wind had swept the snow, was black, while the whitewashed walls beneath
it were dirty white. Through the wide open doorway the interior of the smithy could be seen,
like a cavern, and the smoke streaming out had made a sooty streak from the door to the eaves.

The gloomy landscape lay quiet; for it was Sunday and the road was but little traveled. The
smithy also was quiet. Only the door of the workshop stood open as on a working day: Stephen,
the smith, never closed it all the year round. Neither was there any sign of life inside the
house; and yet there were three people sitting in the living room, and a fourth, Katharine,
the maid, had just left the room and gone into the kitchen. At the long, deal table, dark with
age, sat the three, Stephen, the smith, Maria, his wife, and the blond Ludwig, his brother.
In the dark room reigned the same gloomy desolation that lay over the surrounding landscape.
If one stepped from outside into the bare living room, the strange similarity of the one with
the other, would strike one like a blow in the face. There were the bare, sooty, whitewashed
walls, the grimy floor, a black stove, clumsy, dark colored chairs, a rough table, a chest
of drawers to match, with a soiled crocheted cover on it. There sat these people, with three
tin plates and a steaming platter before them. At the head of the table sat the smith, in a
strong chair with hard wooden arms, which creaked whenever Stephen moved, for he was as heavy
as lead. His tall form, as strong as oak, was surmounted by a head covered with crisp curling
black hair. His chin was framed by a short, thick, woolly beard, and his eyebrows and moustache
stood out from his face like black tufts of hair. The skin on his face was red as if it had
been toughened by fire, and it was furrowed by wrinkles and scars. His forehead, which seemed
like a rock, was more marked by wrinkles than his cheeks by scars; a red streak ran across
his blunt, thick nose. One eye was black and most unfriendly looking, while the other eye was
lacking; the half-closed eyelid hung over the empty, inflamed socket.

The smith sat erect, and his hairy right hand lay on the well-worn old Bible, from which he
read every evening before supper. His two companions at table sat with strange humility at
each side of the smith. Even now when the maid had left the room, all was still, as if no one
could breathe. At last Ludwig, the smith's brother, pushed his chair back angrily and started
to rise from the table.

"I will not sit here any longer," he exclaimed. His face was fair and young by contrast with
the other, his figure slenderer, and more supple, and his ways more refined, such as one brings
back from foreign lands. But his features resembled Stephen's, and his hair and beard were
thick and wavy like the other's, only they were blond, beautiful silvery blond.

"Of course you will stay," said the smith in a low tone, but shortly, and gloomily, and as
he raised his heavy arm to draw his brother back into the chair, the latter sat down again.
He sat there as before, stooping over and staring at his plate. So too, sat Maria gazing into
her plate. Yet her graceful blond head rose erect from her black neck frill, and her throat,
which was of a strange, transparent, blue-white tint, showed a beautiful, upward curve; so
that her depression only showed in the timid droop of her eyelids.

The smith took up the Bible. "And you are going to read too!" said the blond brother breathlessly,
turning toward him suddenly, and once more half rising from his chair.

Stephen seized him by the wrist. "I shall do the same as every day. When you have eaten your
supper, you may go, and not before!"

Ludwig sank back again. There was no use in trying to do anything else; he could not prevail
against his brother's bodily strength.

Mastering both the others with his quiet force, the smith sat towering above them and began
to read from the Bible. He did not seek long. He opened the book and turned a few leaves.

Stephen closed the book with a bang. "Well--I made it short enough, didn't I?" said he. A peculiar
drawn look disfigured his face yet more. His lower jaw seemed to tremble as if with physical
pain. Then he went on: "A man can also kill his brother, without laying hands on him--he can--he
can--kill his soul, you see."

Two tears ran down Maria's pale, delicate face into her plate. She trembled as if with cold
or fear. The blond brother snatched up his sharp table-knife. "Now let me go, you!" he muttered
savagely.

The table stood between him and the door. Stephen rose and stood before the door. His head
reached almost to the ceiling of the high room. His shoulders were broader than the doorway
that he was guarding. "Lay the knife down," said he. The other looked up at him and obeyed.
It was unthinkable that he could defend himself against such a man.

Stephen came slowly back to the table. "When you are through eating, no one will keep you any
longer," said he, "but supper must be eaten--everything in regular order."

So then they ate their strange meal together. Each took his portion from the platter onto his
plate; Ludwig set his teeth and ate, neither more nor less than on ordinary days, the smith
ate just as usual, but Maria took only a few drops which seemed to choke her. When they had
eaten in silence, Ludwig rose, and forced out two or three words. "Now--perhaps I may go--now--"
and he took his blacksmith's cap from a chair near by.

Stephen Fausch, the smith, did not hinder him. He too arose, picked up his ragged leather apron
from the floor, and tied the stiff thing on. Meanwhile his brother stepped to the door. There
he made some sign to Maria, and for a moment it seemed as if she too was going to turn toward
him; but in an instant it was as if fear had overcome them both. Maria put the plates together,
and the blond young man left the room without any sign of farewell. With leisurely tread the
smith followed his departing brother.

On the landing Ludwig picked up a traveling sack that was already packed, slung it on a stick,
and shouldered it. Then he walked out with a long, firm stride, exactly like his brother Stephen's.
The smith followed the younger man down the steps of the house and as far as the workshop,
into which he stepped for a moment. When he had fumbled about among his tools and came back
to the threshold, he was carrying his heavy sledge hammer in his right hand, from long habit.
He stood leaning on the blackened handle, the heavy head of the hammer buried in the snow,
and looked after his brother, who was walking along the road northward, toward the wood. Above
this wood a sharp, orange red streak now seemed to slash through the monotony of the landscape
like a gaping wound. The sun was sinking. The dark, still and motionless wood seemed to keep
watch and ward over the young man's path, above this the flame colored band, against which
the separate treetops were outlined as if a fret-saw had cut them out of the brilliant background.
A yellow tint lay also upon the road, and Ludwig's figure, the only living thing in sight,
looked taller and sharply outlined. He now stood still, looked about him and threw the sack
from his shoulder onto the snow. When Stephen saw this, he stepped out into the road and planted
himself firmly there, as if he were asking: What's this? What now? The brothers stood thus
for several minutes, and it was strange to see the two men standing in the middle of the road,
burly and motionless as if defying each other: "You can't make me stir from this spot." Finally
Ludwig took up his bundle, strode off with rapid steps, soon reached the wood and disappeared.
Then Stephen Fausch also left the road. He busied himself in the workshop for a while, and
then went back to his wife.

Maria seemed to have been whispering with the maid in the kitchen. As she heard his step on
the landing, she slipped back into the living room, and as he entered, she seemed undecided
what to busy herself with, and afraid that he might notice her confusion. Since she found nothing
to her purpose, she turned at the window and faced him, supporting herself with trembling hands
on the window-sill. The waning light streamed over her blond head, her slender shoulders, and
her delicate, long neck. Her face was almost as white as her throat, her eyebrows were light
and glistened against her brow like gold. Her blue eyes were big and dark with fear.

Stephen walked up to her and placed a chair in front of her. Then she shrank together, and
crossed her slender arms, as if she were cringing from a blow.

"You needn't shiver so, I shall not beat you," said the smith. Her lips parted, but no words
came at first.

"Let me--let me go--I--don't want to be in your way any more," she stammered at last.

Fausch sank into the chair, close in front of her: he was now like a block, barring her way.
"Don't try it," said he, "you know me--don't you try to run away, I should have you brought
back!" He threw his arm over the back of the chair, and the sudden movement made her shrink
again, as if he had meant to strike her.

"No, no, I will stay," she whispered, trembling.

He leaned forward and gazed long at his beautiful wife, from head to foot. "You have nobody
left," he said slowly. "Your people are all dead. That is why you took me, as you told me,
for the sake of a home. But--you have one thing--a pretty face--you have that! And Ludwig found
that out too."

Stephen spat.

"He--we--it all came over us so"--Maria began to explain in a frightened tone.

"Ha, ha!" laughed the smith, and grasped her wrist, which his hand encircled like a handcuff,
and shook her.

She cried out.

"Be still," he commanded, "I shall not beat you." Then he pushed her from him. She slipped
away to the back part of the room, found her knitting, dropped into a chair and began to put
the stitches in order.

"When is the child coming?" asked Fausch after a while, speaking over his shoulder. Obediently
she put her hand to her forehead and thought. "It will be in the summer," she said humbly.

Stephen got up. He took off his leather apron and went into the next room. After a time he
came back in his Sunday coat, passed his wife without a word, and went out of the door. He
made his usual trip to the tavern as his custom was on Sundays. It was late when he came home.

                            Chapter II

Maria, the smith's wife, had not been spoiled. At home her father and her brothers had beaten
her, and now that they were all dead, although indeed, as Fausch's wife, she had no more blows
to endure, yet her life with Stephen was none the easier because he did not strike her, as
others might have done; for Stephen was a violent man--though his will was violent rather than
his fists. No one else had a will of such a bull-like obstinacy. For this reason many pitied
his wife, and this was why she cringed; she had grown used to cringing.

In Waltheim, the village to which the smithy belonged, a bit of news had been traveling about
for some time: Ludwig Fausch was gone, and had been sent away by his brother, the smith, on
account of Maria, his wife. She was going to have a baby! Finally--Ludwig--

More they would not say. The love of gossip is so mean. They only hinted, and never spoke out
plainly.

All the life of the great country road passed by the smithy, a road that came from far away,
and went on and on, to vanish in the far, far distance. Heavy teams came by on working days,
as well as the lighter traveling carriages of country doctors or commercial travelers and the
rumbling carts of the peasants. They knew of the smithy on their way, and used to give Stephen
Fausch work. His best customers were the cattle and horse dealers, who used to travel to North
Germany, and also southward toward Italy. They called the smithy their halfway house and always
had Fausch attend to their wagons and their animals. Moreover, they had a certain weakness
for the stubborn fellow, or perhaps this weakness was only fear of him, since he had gradually
come to be a sort of master over the stretch of road on which he dwelt. Among the traders,
little Moritz Hallheimer was the one who came from the greatest distance. He was a wiry, thin
old man, neat and active, with gray beard and hair, bad teeth, and weak eyes hidden behind
dark glasses. He was shrewd and talkative and knew a great many people, and because he thought
Stephen one of the most unusual men among his acquaintance, he always stopped a while at the
smithy and watched him with wonder, but could never understand him.

One evening in early summer, Moritz Hallheimer arrived from Waltheim. He was sitting in his
small open wagon, driving his brown trotting horse without any whip. On both sides and at the
back of the wagon were tied six horses that he had for sale. Their hoofs and legs were white
with dust, for they had made a long journey. The trader came onward from the woods toward the
smithy through the golden light of the setting sun. So bright was this golden haze between
him and the blacksmith shop, that the horses and wagon could not be seen, and Stephen, the
smith, who was hammering at a wagon in front of his workshop, suddenly saw him appear with
his trotting horses as if coming out of a fire. Fausch shaded his eyes with his swarthy arm,
then he bent once more over his work and let the trader come up to him. Hallheimer found other
customers already there. For a time the road was blocked with vehicles. Two peasants stood
watching Stephen, who was mending their broken pole with a metal ring. Beyond them, a woman
sat, on a wagon loaded with vegetables, waiting for the smith to shoe her mare who had gone lame.

"Good evening, Stephen," said the trader, and received a curt greeting in return. Then Fausch
drove the last nail into the pole of the peasants' wagon. As he stood erect again, the brilliant
purity of the evening seemed, as it were, to recoil from his grimy figure. No brightness appeared
on his swarthy face surrounded with the thick black beard. His flannel shirt, trousers and
leather apron, and even his arms and hands were as dark as the inside of his workshop, whose
dinginess he seemed, as it were, to wear on his person. And the grimy fellow, who seemed really
an insult to the sunset glow, stood there like a tree trunk, taller and broader than any one
else on the road.

"You can harness up," said he to the peasants, who at once went to bring their poor old nags
from a hitching post near by. The vegetable woman began to unharness her little horse; but
Stephen did not concern himself about her. He turned to the trader.

"You have come over the mountains from Italy?" he asked.

Hallheimer held out his hand, which the smith took, at the same time glancing at the wagon
and inspecting the horses.

"I haven't any work for you today," said the trader, "I only thought I would pass a word with you."

"The gray has a shoe loose," said Stephen, untying the horse he had pointed out.

"Never mind. He can easily go as far as the stable," said the other, declining the proffered
aid; but Stephen was already leading the creature to the ring in the wall, where he tied him.
So the little man got down from the wagon, laughing to himself, and let the smith have his
own way. He knew Stephen. Whatever he took into his head, he must do. Many complained of him
for this reason. He never asked what work he should do, but took it in hand himself, and did
it according to his own ideas, no matter if the customers told him ten times over that they
wanted it done differently.

Meanwhile the woman on the vegetable wagon was growing uneasy. "Hallo, smith," she called out,
"I came here first. You must take my horse first!"

"That's so," said Hallheimer goodnaturedly, "she did come first."

"After I've done with this, or not at all," said the smith, loosening the shoe from the gray's
foot.

The woman scolded and swore. "What kind of behavior is that! Do you think I have stolen my
time? Are you going to let me take my turn or not?"

"After I've done with this, or not at all," said Fausch, and as she came up close to him, he
turned his back on her with a jerk. At this, she was beside herself, harnessed up her horse
and turned away from the smithy toward Waltheim. Her grumbling could be heard for some time.

While the smith was still busy shoeing the trader's horse, a piece of work which he did without
any help, an agonizing cry was heard through the closed windows of his house. Then a second
and a third.

"What's that?" asked Hallheimer.

"She is in labor," growled Stephen.

Thereupon the trader, thinking to make himself agreeable, tried to say something fitting. "If
only it is a boy, to carry on your name, Stephen Fausch ..."

The smith muttered something to himself, which his companion could not understand.

"The first child! What a pleasure it will be to you," the trader went on eagerly.

"It isn't mine," said Stephen Fausch gruffly. With his one eye he glared at the man, so that
his words stuck in his throat. Only then did the rumor that he had heard occur to Hallheimer:--the
rumor that the smith's wife had been over-intimate with her husband's brother.

At the top of the stone steps of the house there now appeared a woman who looked very stout,
because she wore so many petticoats. With an important and mysterious look, she nodded to the
smith.

"It has come, Stephen Fausch. You have a boy. I--wish you joy!" she called out. Since the smith
behaved as if he saw and heard nothing, her embarrassment increased; she went dejectedly back
into the house.

Stephen laid down the file with which he had been scraping the horse's hoof, and slowly turned
to the trader. "Did you hear what the mid-wife said?" he asked.

Moritz Hallheimer felt in his pocket and took out a little goldpiece. "You must make the child
a present at the christening," said he, offering the goldpiece to the smith. But Stephen would
not notice the trader's hand. The eager little old man was quite out of countenance. He laid
the goldpiece on the window-sill of the workshop. "Take it to the child, Fausch, take it,"
he begged in his embarrassment.

The horse was now shod, and Stephen led it back to the wagon and tied it there. Suddenly he
raised his great dark head. "Do you know what the boy's name is going to be?" he asked, and
his face had the same stubborn look that it had worn when he told the vegetable woman to wait.
It seemed as if his square forehead projected still more and even his nose had a more obstinate
and uncompromising look. "He is going to have a queer name, the boy," he went on. He was uncommonly
talkative, though he spoke slowly and with difficulty: "A strange name. He is to be called Cain."

As he said this, he came out from behind the wagon and approached Hallheimer, looking at him
with a grim laugh.

"What--what's that you say?" stammered the little man.

The smith nodded. "Yes, yes," he said.

"You can't mean that," said the other. He got into his wagon, took his place on the seat and
repeated: "You don't mean that, Fausch."

"He is going to be called Cain," said Stephen indifferently, without raising his voice. But
his manner seemed to say: "Move me if you can."

The trader looked for some money, to pay for the work, and handed it down to the smith. "They'll
refuse to name the child that," said he.

"They'll have to," answered Stephen. "Did you pick up anything among the Italians this time?"
he asked. And without ceremony he reached in under the oilcloth cover that was spread over
the trader's wagon.

Hallheimer leaned back from his seat into the wagon and took out a little box without any cover
from under the oilcloth. "I may as well show you this," said he. In the box lay an object carefully
wrapped in cloth and cotton wool. Hallheimer unpacked it and handed it to the smith. "A Roman
bronze," said he, "I got it in Milan from an old junk man."

Stephen took the little figure, a boy running a race, a work most delicately and perfectly
formed. He placed it upright on the palm of his broad, fire-scorched hand. The sun had gone
down behind the woods, and only the afterglow still lay over the road, but on the smith's heavy
hand the tiny figure stood as if it were alive, in the infinitely pure light.

The trader watched the smith raising and lowering his arm, as if the better to appreciate the
beauty of the work of art. Then Fausch began to speak. His voice was quiet and almost deeper
than usual, and yet one seemed to hear his quickened breathing. "Only see--the position, the
head, the youthful brow, the chest, just look--Hallheimer--!"

"This one pleases you too, does it?" asked the trader. His glance rested on the heavy, grimy
man, who stood bending forward, with a look of devotion on his dark, almost ugly face. Wasn't
he a strange fellow! Stubborn and rough, like a brute! And yet there was in him something fine
and delicate, that seemed foreign to him. God knows in what corner of his heart lurked this--this
fineness, that made anything beautiful that he saw affect him as the minister's sermon or a
great joy or--no matter what, might affect other people. Every time Hallheimer came near the
man he had to wonder at him, and--because he wondered at him, he kept on stopping to see him
and--but--but, he was going to have the baby christened Cain--

Presently Stephen gave the statuette back. "Thank you for showing me that," said he. "If I
can ever manage it, I will go to Italy myself," he added, and turned toward the south, gazing
into the distance and seeming quite to forget the trader and his wagon.

Hallheimer packed up his property and took the reins. "I must go," said he, "Goodby, Stephen
Fausch." And then he drove on.

The smith did not take the trouble to look after him. The wagon rolled away, accompanied by
the trampling sound of the horses' feet. It was quite a while before Fausch went slowly back
to his workshop, where he rummaged among his things, putting them in order, and once stepped
to the door, as a wagon drove rapidly by; then he looked up at the windows of his house, as
if he recollected himself, and then went up the outside steps. The trader's present of the
goldpiece he left lying where it was.

As Fausch stepped into the dark upper passageway, the woman who had already told him the news
came toward him, "It is good that you have come, Fausch," said she hurriedly, "I--I think you'd
better send for the doctor. I don't like the way your wife is."

Then Fausch passed by her and went into the bedroom where Maria lay.

                           Chapter III

Katharine, the maid, had the baby with her in her own room. She understood the care of children;
in her younger days she had been a nurse on a nobleman's estate. That was a long while ago.
Katharine was now old and thin and worn out, but she had not forgotten about nursing. Indeed
she handled the blacksmith's son with the same care and tenderness with which, in her youth,
she had tended the child of her aristocratic employers. Ever since the evening when he was
born she had kept the boy with her; for it was on that very evening that the mother's lingering
death began. The doctor came from Waltheim, for the smith himself brought him; but he could
do no good. "Your wife is like a bit of porcelain," said he. "Such a woman cannot stand anything."

"Yes--yes!" said Stephen, passing his hand through his thick hair.

They were standing in the living room, talking together.

"Stephen!" came Maria's feeble, anxious voice from the next room.

He went into the bedroom with his heavy tread which he did not know how to subdue. "What is
it?" he asked.

She held out her hand, as if to signify that he should come nearer. Then he came to the bedside,
but his bearing was still exactly as it had been ever since the evening when his brother Ludwig
left home.

"What--what is the baby's name going to be?" she asked tremulously.

"Haven't I told you already?" he answered, looking her straight in the face without wincing.

"Not--not that name," she begged. "Don't do that to the child."

He turned carelessly away, as if to leave the room. The doctor stood on the threshold with
his hat and stick in his hand.

"Not--not that name, Stephen," begged the sick woman.

"You must not excite her," the doctor whispered to the smith. Maria interrupted. "You speak
to him, Sir," she gasped out, more and more excited. "He is going to call the boy Cain."

The doctor came near laughing. "You'll not think of doing such a foolish thing," said he to Fausch.

The smith stood there with his hands in his pockets. He went back into the living room without
answering. The doctor followed him. "Give up your folly! Don't make your wife anxious! As to--the
name--it would not do at all, such a name," he said persuasively.

The smith stood and let the words pass over his head indifferently, just as he might have let
the rain drip down his back. Once only he spoke: "What one is, that he must be called," said he.

"You're like a bull," said the doctor angrily. "You have a right to send the child out of the
house, but you have no right to disgrace it."

A sound of sobbing was heard from the bedroom. The doctor called the maid, who hurried in.

"You're like a bull," he repeated to the smith. "Your violence will be the death of your wife."

Stephen Fausch answered never a word. He turned his face fully toward the doctor--his face
with one empty eye socket and one keen black eye--and stood there as if he had nailed himself
fast to the spot, stood there like a bull, as the doctor had said. The doctor left; he saw
that his reproofs had borne no fruit. When he was gone, Fausch went back to his workshop.

Maria's child, poor wee man, lay in the maid's room. But Maria died two days after the doctor's
visit. She died late in the afternoon. All was silent on the road, in the workshop below, and
in the upper room, where a few people from Waltheim went in and out, the minister, the doctor,
a distant relative of Maria's and the midwife, who had been taking care of the dying woman.

The evening slowly changed to night. The silence in the smithy and all around it grew still
deeper. Only Katharine still moved about in her soft old shoes that made almost no sound. Stephen
Fausch rose from the table, where he had been eating something late at night. He had left the
room dark, and it was as bare and gloomy as a cellar. With a few steps he crossed the room,
and opened the door of the bedroom where Maria lay dead.

There was a great contrast between this room and the dark living room from which he came. The
moonlight streamed in through the bedroom windows. The maid had put up freshly washed and starched
white curtains which gave a peculiar light. The cheap lace looked like marble openwork artistically
carved with a fine chisel. The moonlight lay clear and dazzling, directly across the head of
Maria's bed, which had been moved out to the middle of the room. The faded blue-figured pillow
case, and the feather puff of the same color shimmered white, overlaid with a faint, shadowy
tracery, as if made expressly to throw into relief the noble beauty of Maria's head. As Stephen
Fausch entered, he cast a timid glance at his dead wife: It was wonderful to see her lying
on the bed as if a halo shone around her. He closed the door quietly behind him, folded his
arms, and looked once more at the bed. Then he stepped to the bedside, and stroked one of the
dead woman's eyelids that had not quite closed yet, looked at her thoughtfully once more, then
lifted her arms, which were bare almost to the shoulders and had been hidden under the bedclothes,
and laid them full length on the coverlet. Thus he made Maria appear as if sleeping in endless
peace, but he also arranged her beautiful form so that its loveliness was seen more fully than
before. And when he had done all this, he stood once more with folded arms by the bed and said
aloud, quite calmly: "Yes, you were beautiful, you!"

The moonlight streamed over the bed and over the dead woman, over her pure, white brow, her
cheeks, her delicate nose and her almost transparent eyelids and then over her arms that lay
so peacefully relaxed on the bed coverings. Her face and the pure skin of her arms were bathed
in light as if in clear water. But something glistened like fine pure gold in the light, and
here and there outshone it. On Maria's eyelids, above her brow, beside her cheeks, about her
throat, and even where the bedclothes scarcely hid her breast. It was the dead woman's gleaming
hair and eyelashes.

"Yes, you were beautiful," said Stephen Fausch. His eye wandered over her form with an observant
and thoughtful expression similar to the look he had worn a few days before, when he was studying
the beauty of the bronze figure. But together with the strangely happy calm with which he enjoyed
his wife's beauty, the bull-like stubbornness and a self-willed indifference plainly appeared
on his brow and in his bearing. This he had constantly shown to Maria, ever since he had discovered
her own and his brother's unfaithfulness. He had in fact treated her as a servant. And yet
Maria could have told how he had formerly adored her, as one person rarely adores another.
This she had seen long ago when he used to visit her in her native village, which was a couple
of hours distant from his own house; he would come almost daily, in all weathers, and often
at night, in case he had had no free time during the day! His persistence had finally prevailed
and won her consent. And afterward, during the years of their married life, before Ludwig had
come home! Although he was a rough fellow and had his bad times, yet he had petted and indulged
her--for he had loved her! But--ever since the trouble with his brother, he had, as it were,
pushed her out of his way with his heavy shoes, and yet he held her once more to her duties
and kept her close to him, making her feel that he was the master, whose heavy hand could drive
her where he chose. Even now, when she was dead, he would not let himself feel either pity
or grief for her; only the strange joy that he took in her beauty found its place side by side
with the sullen resentment that he felt against her. This joy was so great, that after a while,
he went slowly out into the passageway and called his maid, beckoned to her, and with his ugly
hand, pointed toward the bed.

"See how beautiful she is," and smoothed a fold of the coverlet that seemed to him to break
the perfection of the picture.

The maid began to sob, indeed she had been crying all day. She was of medium height, had a
withered, sinewy neck, very red cheeks, and kind-looking, watery blue eyes. She was poorly
dressed, but more neatly than the smith, or even than Maria when she was living. In the midst
of her weeping, she nodded to the smith, to show that she too thought Maria beautiful; but
when she saw no signs of grief in him, she stopped crying in surprise, almost in fear. Shaking
her head, she looked furtively, and from one side at the smith, and soon went out of the room,
as if she were uncomfortable near him. Then Fausch too left the room and slept that night on
a leather covered couch in the living room. He did not concern himself about the baby, in fact
he had not troubled himself about it since the maid had taken it into her care.

The next day he attended to what remained to be done for his wife and for her last journey
to Waltheim. As he was fulfilling the legal requirements concerning his dead wife, it occurred
to him that he might save himself a journey by arranging what was necessary for the child at
the same time. So he went to the registrar's office and informed the clerk, in one breath,
of Maria's death and of the child's birth. The clerk, a pale young peasant, who had not been
long in the place, and whose bad health hindered him from earning his living by hard work,
wrote down without delay the details concerning Maria: Her name, the date of her birth, of
her death and so forth. Then they came to the child. "On this day and date was born ..."

The clerk looked up; as a newcomer he had already a nervous manner, and besides, the smith
stood as close to him as if he had to guide his hand in writing.

Stephen Fausch gave the child's name: "Cain Fausch."

"Aren't you making a mistake?" asked the clerk.

"Cain," repeated the smith. His eye rested steadily on the small blank spot in the register,
where the name was to stand, as if he were nailing it in place.

"But--but I can't write that down," said the clerk, blushing.

"Must I tell you again!" grumbled Stephen. "I suppose we could have chosen a better, smoother
sounding name in the parish."

He spoke slowly, looking steadfastly at the paper, with his head thrust forward like a butting
ram. The bashful clerk was completely intimidated by this speech. He recollected that even
a bad name is still a name, that he, himself, would not have to bear that name, and that the
smith, as a father, had the right to name his son as he chose. So he wrote the word in the
little blank space on which Stephen's eye rested.

Accordingly Maria's boy was named Cain, duly and lawfully. When the name stood in black and
white, in the book, Fausch nodded, quickly, crossly, and indifferently, as if to say: "There
it stands now! Of course it would have to be there!" When the clerk went on writing: "Legitimate
son of Stephen Fausch and Maria his wife, née Lehr," he laughed aloud, but he made no objection.

After this business was finished, there remained only Fausch's errand at the minister's to
be done. The pastor was a stout, phlegmatic old man. He did, indeed, look surprised, when the
smith told him the name, by which he wanted the child baptized, and thought, as the clerk had,
at first, that such a name would never do. But when Stephen grew impatient, it occurred to
the worthy man, that in any contest with these hard-headed peasants during his long ministry,
he had often got the worst of it, and that strife always cost him too much trouble, and his
weight and his comfort did not permit him to make any resistance. So he too wrote the name
in the register: Cain Fausch.

Thus the smith had butted his head through two walls.

At home, in Katharine's attic room, lay the child, whose brow had just been branded with a
shameful mark, and slept and throve; for the maid understood the care of babies.

During the next few days, Maria was carried away from the smithy to the churchyard at Waltheim.
This gave the village people plenty to talk about. The name that had been given to Maria's
boy was noised abroad, and idle tongues found fresh work to do. Finally Stephen, the smith,
had the midwife carry the boy, firmly bound on his pillows, to the church, while he and Katharine
went also, as godparents. And now the village gossips could scarcely find a moment's rest.

But all this too passed by. The smith carried on his work, grumbling, obstinate and solitary,
for indeed he had been a lonely man all his life. He did not seem at all changed, and the fact
that his wife was gone forever seemed to have left no trace upon him. He never asked about
the child and saw it more rarely than ever. Toward his customers he had his old self-willed
manner, which angered some, and made others laugh. He constantly had enough customers to have
found an apprentice useful, but he did not employ one. Perhaps the fact that his brother, who
used to help him, had behaved badly, made him dislike to hire another helper. Nothing more
was heard of Ludwig. From the day he left Stephen's house, he had disappeared from his life.

Always grimy, bearing the signs of his work upon him, Stephen Fausch went about, so that a
stranger, seeing him for the first time, carried away the impression of having seen a bit of
darkness in the midst of broad daylight. Yet summer was upon the land, and the smith, who seemed
so gloomy both in look and bearing, often sat, when his work was clone, on the bench before
his door and gazed, with a peculiar expression of mingled surprise and admiration, at a beautiful
sunset, a slowly drifting cloud, or the increasing brilliancy of a star. He felt a strange
pleasure in looking at a well formed animal that passed along the road, would watch a beautiful
woman or would slowly follow a child, the expression of whose face had struck him, would scrutinize
it earnestly, though without any special friendliness, and would then turn thoughtfully away,
keeping the same face in mind for some time afterward and delighting in it.

One night at the close of one of these summer evenings Stephen saw his wife's child again.
It was just such a clear night as that on which Maria had lain dead on her bed. Above the black
band of woodland that bounded the eastern sky with its irregular line, floated the moon, as
a white pond-lily gazes forth from the dark, still water. The smith had been sitting in front
of his house and was going thoughtfully upstairs to his living room, when Katharine beckoned
to him in the corridor. She was quite excited, but evidently anxious as to what he might say.

"You must just see that--just once," said she and motioned toward the ladder-like stairs that
led to her attic room. He followed her almost unconsciously, still lost in his own thoughts,
and saw her withered hand slide upward along the banister at every step, then saw it feel over
the bedroom door, and, pushing it back, cling to it as if nailed there, and only then did it
occur to him that he was standing on the threshold of the maid's room, and that in the gray
basket, under those rather unsightly wrappings, lay the child.

Katharine now stepped into the room and went over to the basket bed. She was trembling a little,
perhaps embarrassed by her own daring. "He looks exactly--like your wife--at the last," said
she, smoothing the child's coverings so carefully that he did not wake up, and handling him
just as tenderly as if he were the dainty little count whom she had tended years before.

The thought was forced upon Fausch that the room looked just as the other had, in which Maria
lay dead. Only it was smaller. The room was flooded with moonlight, and the radiance lay on
the child's little bed as it had on the bed of the dead mother. On the bright pillow lay the
little head, framed in soft, golden, downy hair. The face was full yet delicate and the lines
had the same beauty as the mother's face, as it had lain there--also in the moonlight.

But in the living face there was something that enhanced its beauty beyond that of the other
face. The light was so clear that the rising and falling of the chest was visible under the
knitted jacket. Every breath could be seen as it distended the delicate satiny cheeks and passed
from the little mouth; and at every inward breath the lips parted like the calyx of a flower.

Fausch looked at the child for a while, and for a moment it seemed as if the sight impressed
him. He leaned forward involuntarily, as if in joyful surprise, but then a curious change took
place in him. His dark, angular head came further forward, so that the moonlight struck his
square, stubborn brow. In the smith's face and bearing it was easy to see how his own obstinacy
was strangling the little pleasure that had almost found its being.

"So that's the boy, is it? Cain Fausch?" said he. "You must be feeding him well," he added,
turning away and moving toward the stairs. As he was starting to go down, he grumbled over
his shoulder: "You needn't have dragged me up here just for that."

The tears sprang to Katharine's eyes. She stared after him, her whole face working. Then she
went to the head of the stairs, and leaning over, she called quickly after him: "Here, Fausch!"

"Yes?" he asked, pausing.

"No one must call him that when he is big enough to know--not that."

"What else then? See that you don't meddle! The name is short. And what is, is!"

The smith stamped away toward the living room. In the clear moonlight which now lay on the
landing, Katharine could plainly see from above his black woolly head. It passed through her
mind that if one should strike it with a sledge-hammer, the head would be the harder of the two.

Nevertheless something of the picture that he had seen that evening remained in Fausch's mind.
The impression lingered for days and weeks, and often occupied his thoughts. Once or twice
he asked Katharine about the boy: "What is the little fellow doing? Do you still feed him so well?"

                            Chapter IV

The time passed in Waltheim as it does everywhere. At the smithy Katharine sighed at every
year's end, as people are apt to do: "Lord, it has only just begun, and now it is gone already."

Once, when the old year was making way for the new, she added: "One can see by the boy how
old one is growing."

The year just ending was the sixth since the boy at the smithy was born.

"The boy," Katharine would say, because she would not speak his name aloud, and yet dared not
give him any other.

"Cain!" called the smith from the road, if he wanted the boy in the workshop, or through the
house, if he were looking for him anywhere. His voice had a sullen ring like that of his biggest
anvil, and was so loud that the name could be heard for a couple of hundred paces round about.
But when anyone asked the child himself his name, he would raise his delicate face innocently
to the questioner and say: "My name is Cain, Cain."

And he had already become accustomed to say the name twice, for on hearing it the first time,
people either did not understand him or would not believe him.

Stephen Fausch did not treat the boy a hair's breadth differently from what he would have done
had there been no spot upon him. Since the child had outgrown the exclusive care of Katharine,
and could stand and walk and feed himself, he still slept in the maid's room upstairs, but
he shared the living room with his father and ate with him at the table. Stephen did not concern
himself much about the child, but he was not unkind to him; for the first while, it seemed
as if he purposely looked over the top of the little fellow's head. But in the last year there
had come a change, as the little boy's speech and ideas began to grow clearer and cleverer,
and now and then, as is the case with all children, some speech of his would delight the listener
with its precocity or drollery. The smith led too lonely a life not to welcome the little change
that the boy brought him, although he did not admit this, either to himself or to others. He
called him oftener to the workshop, tossed him a light hammer to play with, or told him to
notice how he himself shaped a horseshoe, how he bent a glowing bar, or other such matters.
When the two were alone, there was a droll sort of companionship between them, and they would
talk together while the smith was working. The two voices resounded between the cling-clang
of the hammers, Fausch's dull or loud, then the child's voice clear and high, like the sound
of the hammer when it rebounded from the very outer tip of the anvil. The figures of the man
and the boy made a striking contrast. When he was near the boy, Fausch looked still heavier,
stouter and darker than usual. The light of the forge fire shone on his brown face and showed
the charcoal streaks on it and the dust in his thick, tangled, black beard. The sparks flew
from his heavy blows, but they flew in short spurts, as straight as an arrow to the ground.
They fell before the little boy's feet in their coarse shoes, or even on his shoes, and if
one glowed for some time on the rough floor, the child would look at it and laugh with delight
if it was slow in dying out. But the boy was as fair as the man was dark. He stood there looking
as if he had just come out of a bandbox, for Katharine still took the same care of him that
she had formerly taken of the little count. He did, indeed, wear coarse gray stockings, and
his jacket and trousers were made out of Fausch's cast off Sunday clothes. The stuff was rough
and homely, but the coarse shirt that showed at the neck and wrists was of a glistening white,
that looked so strangely clean in the dirty blacksmith shop, that its color seemed, as it were,
to stab through the darkness. But that was not the only bright spot about the child. His hands
were small and slender and really quite delicate, and they had a clever way of touching any
dirty object with the finger tips only, without getting soiled. But little Cain's head was
the fairest of all, poised on his slender white neck, that showed above the soft, unstarched
collar. The boy's face was of such a rare and almost unearthly beauty, that Katharine, who
was a pious soul and none too clever, often and often stood near Cain, when he was not noticing
her, and gazed at him, with folded hands and open mouthed astonishment. At such times a secret
shudder would pass through her spirit, and strange thoughts through her old head. Supposing
that the boy, Cain, was not really a human being, supposing that--an angel was dwelling under
the smith's roof, and--

When such thoughts came to Katharine, who, unlike Stephen Fausch, was a Catholic, she would
cross herself. Stephen Fausch was far from regarding his boy as an angel, but when the child
was not looking at him, he too would secretly marvel at his face, every feature of which was
like a work of art. His mouth had kept the same shape that it had had when he was a baby; it
was like a delicate flower whose calyx is just opening. His chin and nose, his cheeks and brow
were very clear-cut, while his eyes were large and of a dark steel gray color. They had a strange
radiance that was especially striking when the child looked up suddenly and raised his long
lashes. His hair was bright golden, like his mother's, and Katharine let it grow long and hang
over his shoulders. Therefore Fausch also, upon whom all beauty had its effect, often paused
in his work and gloated over the child's loveliness, although he was short and abrupt with
him, as with every one else, so that even their talk in the workshop was of a difficult and
fragmentary sort. If the maid or any stranger came in, Fausch would speak to the boy in a harsher
and more commanding tone, would push him roughly to one side and would call him by his name
in a loud and purposely distinct tone. Thus he seemed to seize little Cain, as it were, in
his two hands and hold him up to show him to people; "Look at him! I have branded him with
the wrong and the shame that they have put upon me!" There was nothing mean or hateful in this
action; he merely chose to show that he was man enough to conceal nothing of the disgrace that
had been forced on him, and also to exact retribution, without asking whether others liked
it or not.

The boy bore this frequent change in his father's bearing, to which he had soon become accustomed,
with singular ease. He never cried, but looked at Stephen sometimes, when he blustered, with
big astonished eyes, and sometimes he twitched crossly away from Stephen's grasp, when the
smith started to push him aside.

Meanwhile the time came when little Cain Fausch must be sent to school. Katharine took him
to the village the first time he was to go. But the very next day he no longer needed her,
and soon felt at home in Waltheim. Because he looked a little different from the others, a
little finer, as it were, and wore his hair in long curls, the village children at first stared
at him in astonishment; but since he was a lively little chap, he soon found playmates among
them, and they grew accustomed to him, because he became used to them.

Now that the boy was but little with him, the smith seemed to neglect him and to forget him,
as of old. Only some weeks later did chance call his attention to the fact that Cain had entered
upon a new phase of his life. It was in the afternoon of one of those light days, when the
sun seemed to spread its rays, like the glistening threads of a spider's web along the road,
from one tract of woodland to the other. The southern wood cast a cool, clear shadow, and where
this ended and the sun began to spin its golden web, the line was as sharp as if cut by a knife.
Fausch, whose day's work was done, put his short pipe between his teeth, and wandered along
the road toward Waltheim, through the sunshine, stretching out his bare, black arms before
him, he bathed them in the light, and enjoyed seeing how every motion he made broke some of
the golden threads. Just then he saw the little boy, Cain, coming out of the woods through
the beautiful shadows. He was carrying a large hempen satchel which contained his school books,
and came cheerfully forward, taking rather long, vigorous steps for the length of his legs.
His long hair hung down over his shoulders, and his fair face was shining. But as he crossed
the line from shade to sun, the light flashed upon his bare head, and for a moment his hair
shimmered like gold.

Stephen Fausch paused, involuntarily, to watch the strange picture that the handsome child
made, walking through the glorious sunlight. Meanwhile the boy had seen his father. Pleasure
took the place of the thoughtful expression that he had worn, and he called out gaily from
some distance.

Fausch nodded, waited for him to approach, asked an idle question, whether he was coming from
school, and then turned around, and the two walked home side by side. The smith did not change
his sauntering gait. Accordingly the boy too had to walk more slowly, and since his father
did not speak, he fell, after a few attempts at conversation, to meditating as before. By and
by, however, he looked up and asked suddenly: "Why have I such a name?"

"What name?" asked Stephen.

"They all laugh when they call me that. The children say my name is a disgrace." His eyes filled
with tears, but he wiped them away secretly so that his father should not see him cry. Stephen
laughed harshly. He did not answer. He stooped forward, and his rugged brow looked as if he
meant to butt into some obstacle; moreover he began to walk faster.

"The teacher calls me Fausch, just Fausch. He calls all the other boys by their first names,"
Cain began again.

"The teacher is a fool," said the smith. As he spoke, they had already reached home, and without
pausing, he went at once into his workshop. The child got no other answer.

But during the next few weeks, a curious wave from Waltheim reached the smithy. The village
people grew quite disturbed over Stephen Fausch's whim, to make his boy bear the name of a
sinner. They might have worked themselves into this state long ago, or even when the boy was
christened, but at that time, the little commotion had quickly died away. They now actually
saw among them the child whom the smith had branded with a mark, and he was a child upon whom
the hardest and most commonplace among them could not look without a secret joy. Therefore
they took him under their protection. The first who came to see Stephen Fausch was the teacher,
an enlightened young man, and accordingly more officious. He greeted the smith a little condescendingly,
a trifle masterfully. Then he blurted out at once the errand that had brought him. "You must
change your boy's name, Fausch. He can't let every one call him by a shameful name like Cain.
Give him your own name, Stephen, or some name or other, but--"

This long speech was cut short by a rough, short questioning "What?" from Fausch. Then the
smith left the room, in which the teacher had taken him by surprise, and shut the door with
a bang. He was seen no more. So the teacher had to withdraw with nothing gained. After the
teacher's failure, one and another tried to make Fausch change his mind, a good-natured old
man who was a member of the school board, the village constable, whose opinion of himself was
only equalled by his great stature, and finally a couple of sympathetic women. Fausch let them
all chatter, gave them no answer, and only ran away, when they went a little too far. And so
he stemmed the tide, that flowed around his house, like a rock against which the waves must part.

"What a bullheaded fellow he is," the Waltheimers would grumble. But finally this little commotion
too subsided. The smith had his own way.

Weeks and month flew past; the years went more slowly, but still they went.

As the boy, Cain, grew older, he grew more lonely. His playmates became estranged from him.
He was too different from the others, and so they did not associate much with him, and then
his name always aroused their scorn. At home he still had Katharine, the maid. She spoiled
him when he was twelve years old, just as she had done when he was little. He had her to thank
for his unusual, almost high-bred appearance and manners. But because he had no comrades, he
began to love solitude, and soon liked to sit over the books that his teacher lent him, and
would sit for hours in a forest clearing to dream and marvel; but music he prized more than
anything else, and especially the sound of his own voice. His singing attracted so much attention
at school, that the teacher let him sing in his little choir at church on Sundays, and Cain
sang in the woods and at home, but he liked best to sing in his own little room near Katharine's,
in which he had slept since he had grown bigger. It was now two years since he had given up
wearing his hair hanging down on his shoulders, but it was still long and soft and blond, it
glittered in the sunlight, and he wore it brushed back from his forehead. His brow was so white
and clear that the light seemed always to shine upon it, and his face had lost none of its
pure, noble lines. His figure, too, was unusually symmetrical, at once flexible and strong.
Although he was dressed in the coarse and unbecoming clothes of a villager, yet no stranger
could pass him by without glancing a second time at such an uncommonly fine looking lad.

Stephen Fausch had allowed him to grow up in his home and had always behaved in the same way
to him. Today indifferent, surly, speaking scornfully to him before others, tomorrow, if they
were alone, talkative in his brief way, and casting stolen glances at his face and form, as
if the boy's beauty were like meat and drink to him. Then came a day that altered their relations.

                            Chapter V

Fausch was sitting in his dark, dingy living room. It was already almost night. The smith had
long ago left off working, and the table was already set for him and the boy. Fausch did not
light the lamp. He liked to sit in the dark, which grew gradually deeper in the room, until
his heavy form was no longer recognizable, but only a red point, the glow and the smoke of
his pipe, and his heavy breathing betrayed his presence. Then Katharine opened the door. "The
boy has not got home yet," said she. Her breath came short.

"He will soon come," answered Stephen.

But Cain did not come, although he ought to have been home from school hours ago.

Another hour passed. Stephen Fausch's pipe went out. He was half dozing. Then Katharine came
in again, for she could find no peace. "He--some one ought to go and look for him," she said.

Stephen waked up. "Bring in the soup. If he does not come at the right time, he can go to bed
hungry," he grumbled.

The old woman obeyed, and brought in the soup, but her hands and knees were trembling. She
meant to hurry over to the village herself afterward, to see what had become of the boy.

Meanwhile the smith had lighted the lamp on the table. He sat down at his own place. The red
light of the lamp shone on his black woolly head. Just then footsteps were heard on the outer
stairs.

Katharine ran out to the landing. "Boy," she called out in the darkness.

"Yes!" came the answer. He was there. Slowly he came up the steps. His heavy shoes usually
made no noise, for he stepped very lightly. They clattered now, as if he were stumbling. The
maid lifted up the light. "Jesus Christ!" she exclaimed.

The boy's face was as white as snow, his clothes were torn and in disorder, but even now they
were noticeably clean.

"What has happened to you," asked the maid, quickly and anxiously. Instead of answering, the
boy asked whether his father was in the room.

"Yes, yes," she answered, and opened the door for him herself. With uncertain steps, as if
feeling his way, the boy walked in. He was now thirteen years old, and both slender and strong.

"Well!" asked Stephen Fausch, taking a spoonful of soup.

Cain stepped forward into the ruddy light of the lamp. His pallor showed strikingly in the
light; his eyes seemed to glow and looked very dark.

"We had a fight," he began in a breathless tone, as if he had but just shaken off a couple
of his enemies. "And then I stayed in the woods a long time."

Katharine stood in the doorway, leaning forward to hear what would happen next. Fausch looked
sharply at the boy. "Tell me about it," said he. As he spoke, it seemed as if Cain's appearance
caught his eye more than ever.

"The other boys have been telling me why I am named Cain," he gasped out. He took hold of the
back of a chair and looked Stephen in the face. It was not hard to see that something had stirred
him to the depths. "They say it is because my mother was a bad woman," he went on. "But--then--I--I
cannot help what my mother did--"

"Eat your supper now," said Stephen Fausch.

Cain did not hear. "I thought it over a long time in the woods," he went on in short, broken
phrases. "If I am such a shameful creature--I must have done something--but--I--"

Suddenly he was quite overcome. He threw himself down with his head and shoulders on the table
and wept. He looked up once. "Why must I have that name, Father? Can't I have a name like other
people's?"

Stephen had laid down his spoon. He made a grimace, as if he did not know what to say. Then
he swore, and then he growled: "They had better leave you alone, the vermin."

Cain regained his self-control now. He dried his eyes. Then he stood up once more by the table,
slender and pale. "Whether they are talking impudence to me or not," said he in a low tone,
"it always seems to me as if they are pointing their fingers at me. It is like that wherever I go."

As he spoke, he looked about him, as if he saw scornful glances aimed at him.

"You mustn't trouble yourself about the others," said Stephen.

The boy could not at first think of any answer. As he stood there seeming so lost and confused,
he had a look of helplessness that would have touched one's heart. Suddenly he begged, in a
trembling voice: "Couldn't you give me another name?"

Fausch's brow still kept its obstinate look. But he said in an unaccustomed, almost friendly
tone: "Sit down now and eat something. One can, very likely, shut the mouths of the boys in
the village."

Cain started to turn away. Then he changed his mind. Some idea seemed to calm him. He put his
clothes in order and sat down at his own place. His big strong father meant to take his part!
In spite of himself, this thought did him good. He began to eat.

Up to this time Katharine had stood at the door. She now left the room.

Fausch finished his supper, got up and sat down by the window, where it was dark. He lit his
pipe again, and secretly observed the boy, who was sitting at the table. Meanwhile they went
on talking, in brief, fragmentary sentences: How the fight among the school boys had gone?
Which boys had taunted him? Had such things often happened before?

Cain only looked up from his plate when he was obliged to answer, the rest of the time he ate
slowly and thoughtfully. Once he wiped a tear from his eyes. Stephen Fausch puffed at his pipe,
from which but little smoke rose, as if it were drawing poorly. He had very keen sight, in
spite of having but one eye. Thus no feature of the boy's face escaped him: the delicate straight
lines of the profile, the brow, the nose, the chin. Most of all he noticed the whiteness of
the forehead. As he gazed, he spoke less and less, and finally was silent altogether. All kinds
of thoughts passed through his mind, and he became more and more absorbed in them. Perhaps
this was the first time in his life that the strong man was troubled with painful thoughts,
which he could not put down and strangle, as it were, by the force of his resolute will.

After a while Cain rose, still looking very pale. "I have to study," he said. "Good-night, Father."

"Good-night," answered Stephen.

Then the boy left the room. But the smith sat buried in thought. He scarcely noticed Katharine,
as she went to and fro, clearing the table. He could still see the boy's white forehead. And
then it seemed to him as if an ugly spot were burning on it, and something within him seemed
to say: "You branded him with that sign of shame!" For a moment facts and thoughts seemed to
become confused. Then he drew his brows together and thought more intently, and saw everything
clearly, as it really was: Not only had he burdened Maria's boy with that name, that shameful
name, but he had marked him with the shame itself; for the name awakened the memory of the
stain that clung to him from his birth. And if the village children, when they were simple,
innocent little things, had made fun of Cain because he had a queer name, unlike anybody else's,
now that they had grown bigger just as he had, and already knew more than was good for them,
they pointed scornfully at him, not because his name was Cain, but because they knew why he
bore that name. But had not he, Stephen Fausch, chosen that it should be so? The injustice
that had been done him, he had chosen to nail firmly and solidly in place, and firm and solid
it should remain!

Two different forces were struggling in Fausch. There was his obstinacy, his untamed will,
that he had never curbed in all his life, and together with that, something else, that was
quite new, something like pity for the boy, or--who can guess what suddenly arose in revolt
against his iron will. These two forces wrestled together, as it were, breast to breast, neither
would yield, and there they stood, equal in strength. Fausch's dark brow flushed, he rocked
back and forth in his chair, and his pipe went out. This inward strife gave him a grim hour.
No inner commotion had ever before made the slow, heavy man outwardly so restless. The lamp
was already burning low and threatening to go out, and Katharine had some time since finished
her work in the kitchen, when he rose. He put out the smoking light, but he did not go to his
own room near by. He took off his shoes as usual, carried them into the kitchen, and when he
came back into the passageway, he stood still and listened. Nothing was stirring in the house.
Then, in his bare feet, he went up the stairs to the attic, without noticing that Katharine's
door still stood open, and slipped along, as quietly as he could, to the boy's little room.
There he listened again. Then he pressed the latch, opened the door, and looked in.

Katharine came to her door half dressed. She had heard him feeling his way upstairs. She could
now see him plainly, framed by Cain's doorway. A pale gray light filled the room. Her heart
beat. What was the Master going to do? Surely he would not--Had he a grudge against the boy,
on account of the fight?

Fausch looked over to the boy's bed. Then he drew a long breath. The lad was asleep. The smith
had thought that Cain might still be crying. That was why he had come upstairs. He now closed
the door again carefully.

Katharine involuntarily stepped back into her room, out of sight. She heard Fausch pass, taking
care to tread softly, and go downstairs again. He went into the living room, and then she plainly
heard him go into the next room. The thumping of her heart, that had almost taken away her
breath subsided. But she lay awake a long time, wondering what the smith had come up for.

Katharine might wonder as long as she chose. Fausch never betrayed by any word, what he had
been looking for in the boy's room that night. Neither did he show any change in his bearing,
but remained sullen and reserved as always, and seemed at first to have forgotten that he had
half promised the boy his protection against the persecution of the Waltheim lads. Nevertheless,
the two powers were still struggling within him, and neither got the upper hand, because both
were equally strong. However, one day, and soon after a second and a third time, the Waltheimers
were surprised to see Stephen Fausch appear on the principal street of the village, by broad
daylight, on a week day during working hours. He had on his leather apron, and was bareheaded,
dark and grimy as usual, so that every one could see that he had just left his anvil. He looked
so unfriendly, that those who met him did not care to accost him. It was about the time in
the forenoon when the Waltheim children were let out of school. He walked past the schoolhouse,
which stood in an open square in the middle of the village, as if some errand took him further,
but he stopped in a side street or behind a neighboring house and waited, with his bare arms
folded across his chest.

An acquaintance asked him what he was doing.

"Waiting, if you want to know," he answered.

When the school children suddenly came streaming out of the schoolhouse, he watched for Cain,
and when he had spied him, looked after him for a while, until the boy had left the village
behind, and was walking toward the wood that separated the smithy from the village. Then indeed,
he stepped into one of the ale houses, which are numerous in Waltheim, as in every village,
took his morning drink, but said nothing here, either, about what had brought him to town,
and then took himself off homeward, as surly as he had come.

"He's watching his boy," said the Waltheimers, and thought themselves very clever to have found
this out. "He seems to have some kind of suspicion about the boy. The poor fellow must have
a pretty hard time at home with a harsh, bristly chap like Fausch."

When the smith stood on guard for the third time, the villagers found out their mistake. This
time he had slipped into the village unnoticed, from somewhere in the environs, and had taken
his stand in a narrow space between some houses, that was not really a street, directly opposite
the schoolhouse. Just as the clock had struck eleven, a great noise was heard from the schoolhouse,
as usual, the door flew open and the children rushed out. The smallest and most turbulent came
first. The older girls and boys, among whom Cain belonged, came out of the building more slowly
and gently, with a sort of dignity. Cain Fausch was alone, as always. The smith had for some
time noticed that something was wrong with the children, because Cain was always alone and
the others seemed to avoid him. Today he was among the first of the older ones to leave the
building. He walked slowly across the open space, looking neat and slender; he had been for
a good while carrying his books under his arm instead of in a hempen satchel. He carried his
head not merely erect, but slightly thrown backward, perhaps he involuntarily carried it higher
since he had realized that there was ill-will against him in the village and that people stared
at him. As the little crowd of smaller children began to scatter, a few looked after him. Two
little scamps were standing close to the smith. Probably they had but just begun to go to school.
"Do you know what his name is?" one of them, who could not long have been old enough to speak
plainly, asked his companion slily, and with a childishly important air. Then they mentioned
the name "Cain" and giggled and looked after the blacksmith's boy who was slowly walking away.
The children did not know the meaning of the name, but only laughed at its oddity. Meanwhile
Cain's comrades, big strong fellows, had also come out into the open square. They were putting
their heads together, as if planning some trick. Two of them came forward and looked after
Cain, who was now walking down the village street.

"There he is, running away again," said one of them, the son of the tavern-keeper at the "Star,"
a big, large-limbed fellow, fifteen years old, speaking over his shoulder to the others.

"He's always running away, the coward," called out the others. Then the tavern-keeper's son,
Adolph, shouted down the street, "Cain." He gave the name a shrill, ugly sound.

"Leave him alone," said one of those who were further behind.

"Bah, what does he matter?" blustered Adolph, "a child of sin like him!" And once again he
called out sharply and scornfully, "Cain!" Suddenly he saw the others fall back from something,
that passed before his eyes like a great black shadow. He had no time to see what it was; for
some one seized him by the clothes over his chest and lifted him, heavy as he was, high in
the air and shook him, so that his shirt and waistcoat and coat tore. Then the man let him
down, took him by the collar, held him in one hand as if in a vise and hit him blow after blow,
the big tall fellow, just as one punishes little children, such blows that his cries brought
the people running, and two or three voices called out: "Let him go, Fausch! Do you want to
kill him?" Some of the men caught the smith by the arm. Finally he let go of Adolph and shook
off the hands of those who were interfering. His dark face looked gray. On his wrinkled forehead
a swollen vein showed, as thick as a cord.

"There," said he breathing heavily, "if any one else wants some of the same sort, he only needs
to torment the boy." Having spoken thus, he thrust his hands into his pockets and walked away
with his head thrust forward like that of an ox that is pulling. "It is all the same to me,
half-grown or full-grown," he growled over his shoulder.

Among those who were looking after him, and the others who were grouped around Adolph where
he was writhing on the ground with pain and rage, there was not one who had any fancy for a
taste of the smith's fists.

After this day the Waltheimers had something more to complain of.

"The smith doesn't want his boy to be jeered at. Then what did he give him such a name for?"

The landlord of the "Star" at first talked as if he would bring suit against the smith; but
finally, when he reflected that his own young scapegrace was considerably to blame for the
punishment he had received, he dropped the subject. But although the Waltheimers kept on gossiping,
they were prudently quiet about it; for there were very few among them who were not afraid
of Stephen Fausch. Even those who teased or tormented the smith's boy, or talked about him,
and people always will have something to talk about, became cautious, but whispered and talked
in secret all the more. For Cain Fausch could not get rid of his name nor wash away the stain
upon his birth. The boy grew more and more quiet and reserved. He made no more complaints at
home, but any one with sharp eyes could see that something weighed upon him. He gradually came
to see that people had a certain right to despise him. This sharpened his hearing and made
him notice how people busied themselves about him, with glances, words and gestures, whenever
he came in sight. This made him grow serious quite early, and gave him a certain timidity with
people. But he was inwardly sound and strong. Perhaps he had Katharine to thank for this, for
in keeping his outward appearance always so neat and dainty, she might have unconsciously brought
him up with a sort of inner purity and refinement. Thus it did not occur to him, since he was
himself the cause of his own solitude, to seek, as he easily might have done, evil or at least
lightminded distractions, to console himself for the fact that he was not of equal standing
with others. Instead of this, he learned to love work, first such as he found in his schoolbooks,
but later that which he found in his father's workshop. During the boy's leisure hours, Stephen
Fausch began to avail himself of his help, and Cain took as much pleasure in this activity,
which brought bodily fatigue, as in the other, which occupied his mind, and found the change
from the one to the other refreshing and not wearing. But he retained the peculiarity, that
he would not permit the traces of his work to remain upon him after he had left the workshop.
He would then change his clothes, wash and make himself tidy, so that he still kept that bright,
clear-colored look, which made so striking a contrast with his father's dark and grimy aspect.
Precisely this peculiarity seemed to give the smith pleasure, and without his realizing it,
his sympathy for Cain grew; perhaps it also grew from the consciousness that he himself had
put upon the innocent child a mark of shame which probably he would never be able to shake
off. But one day, when Stephen Fausch himself became aware that a feeling for Cain began to
stir within him, such as he had never known since the days when he used to take long, swift
walks for Maria's sake, he laughed, in the midst of his work, a loud, harsh laugh, as the thought
came over him. His laughter was at his own folly: "Fool, it isn't possible. Not a drop of your
blood is in the boy's veins. They slipped him into your nest." On this day he was unusually
surly and impatient with Cain; his face often wore an expression almost of hatred, when he
looked at the lad. But this hatred was not real. He said to himself: "It is against nature
that you should be fond of the boy! You ought to have sent him out of the house, the child
of shame!" Then again the other power would struggle with this one, the thought: "Is it the
boy's fault? You have branded him, and he didn't deserve it!" And his affection for Cain was
there, no matter how he tried to argue it down. The inner conflict, that Stephen Fausch carried
about with him, was increasing.

And withal time still came and went. One year followed the others and another followed that.
Fausch knew as well as anybody else that people left Cain no peace. The boy had gone through
the secondary school at Waltheim, and was now learning the blacksmith's trade with his father.
Thus he was free from the jeers and teasing of his schoolmates, but yet the smith saw that
the disgrace clung to him. Stephen noticed that many of his customers glanced at each other,
when Cain was present or was mentioned, he saw the looks that followed the boy, if they appeared
together anywhere; he saw how people nudged each other, and heard how one would say: "His name
is Cain. Isn't that a foolish name for a man?" and then the other: "Do you know why the boy
was named Cain?" Stephen Fausch saw that the disgrace clung to him, and his standing up for
the boy now did no good, whether he threatened or even struck those whom he heard insulting
him. He could not kill the thousand tongued brood of scandal-mongers. Slowly, slowly--the process
took years--the smith himself began to suffer from everything that hurt the boy. Oftener and
oftener his gaze rested on Cain's face and form, while new thoughts stirred within him; Did
he not look like Maria, as she was, long ago, when he used to run miles to see her? Good Lord,
how he had loved the girl! And he was just like Maria--was Cain!

Stephen showed no trace of what was going on within him. His rough manner did not change, for
it had become a second nature to him. But in this strange and shut-in nature, something that
was like a flame awoke; this was the love of his dead wife, the love that he had had for her
long ago in the days of their courtship. But this love was not for the dead--although he perhaps
did not know it himself--he began to love his wife in her son, in Cain, the brand of shame
upon his house.

                            Chapter VI

Moritz Hallheimer, the horse trader, stopped with his wagon at the smithy. He was still in
the habit of pausing, when he passed that way, and he thought a great deal of Stephen Fausch,
because he was a skilful workman as well as a strange sort of man. The horse and wagon, as
well as Hallheimer himself bore the traces of a long journey. After the trader had greeted
Fausch, who was working with Cain in the shop, he leaned against the grimy doorpost and followed
with his eyes the movements of the two smiths. Fausch's work was like the heavy downward blow
of a weight, Cain's like the swift flight of a feather. Their conversation took place between
the blows of the hammer, and often they almost had to scream, to make their voices heard above
the ringing of the metal.

"I know where there is a good business for you, Fausch," said Hallheimer.

"Is that so?" answered the smith curtly and scarcely seeming to listen.

The trader laughed. "Of course, you were brought up here, and you are contented here. You wouldn't
think of leaving. Besides you are saving up many an honest penny where you are."

Fausch made no answer. He hammered away at the tire on which he was working. Only when the
trader spoke of going did he let his hammer rest a moment, as if he were listening and considering
the question.

"But it is a good business all the same," continued the talkative trader, stroking his thin
pointed beard. "May be a better place than you have here."

At this point Fausch stopped working. "Where is it then?" he asked slowly.

"The smith at the hospice among the mountains over toward Italy is dead," the trader answered.
"The landlord is not satisfied with the apprentice whom the smith left behind. He wants to
rent the blacksmith shop again. One can make good money up there."

Fausch did not wait to hear the end of the sentence. He heated the tire and hammered it till
the sparks flew. But his thoughts were working harder than his hammer. At the same time he
saw how the trader turned from him to the boy, with whom he began to talk. He also saw the
expression of Hallheimer's face, while he was talking with Cain. Everybody wore exactly, the
same expression when they were looking at Cain: it was composed of surprise at his personal
appearance and a more or less well concealed curiosity. Often a malicious joy was mingled with
this look. Fausch had come to have a keen eye for people's bearing, and he knew that Cain was
equally observant. While the trader was talking to him, a painful flush, from time to time,
would pass over the young man's face, which was still as fair and smooth as when he was a boy.
He was ashamed. And it was always so; whenever people stared at him he was overcome by this
painful sense of shame.

Hallheimer now put an end to the interview. "'Well--Good-by, Fausch," said he, "I'll be jogging
along."

"Good-by!" said the smith. But as the other turned toward his wagon, Fausch came slowly and
clumsily out of the workshop and motioned to him. The trader's horse had already started. Hallheimer
reined him in sharply. Fausch came over to him and leaned his blackened arms on the rack of
the wagon.

"I might like the smithy up there," he said.

The tradesman's instinct awoke in Hallheimer. He became so animated, that his gestures were
as eloquent as his speech. "You're not determined to stay here for good and all? You will do
a good business, really you will make a success, Fausch."

Each word led to another. They talked together for a long time. As Hallheimer was bidding farewell,
he said: "I will write to the landlord of the tavern. I will write at once, you may rely upon
me. I'll bring you the answer one of these days."

"Very well," said Stephen Fausch. His face did not betray his thoughts. When he went back to
the workshop, he was very taciturn with Cain. It was plainly to be seen, that he was wholly
taken up with his thoughts.

Cain and Katharine did not find out about his plans until Hallheimer had come again and again,
when at last, one evening, Fausch signed the lease which the trader brought him for the blacksmith
shop on the mountain. He returned after dark that evening from Waltheim, where he had gone
with Hallheimer to settle the transaction. He found Cain with Katharine in the kitchen. The
boy was freshly washed and had on clean clothes; with bare feet and his sleeves rolled up,
he was sitting on the chopping block which Katharine used for chopping kindling wood, watching
her peel potatoes. He was attached to the worn old woman, who had cherished and protected him
when no one else troubled about him. A small lamp hung from the ceiling, the fire on the hearth
was burning brightly, and threw its flickering light over his figure and his blond hair. The
conversation had languished, and Cain was singing softly to himself in his beautiful deep voice.
When he stopped, Katharine said: "Sing some more!" Above the bubbling of the kettle she heard
Fausch's step. Then he entered the room. He had on his coat and his blacksmith's cap, he bid
them good evening and came over to the table where the maid was sitting. "Well," said he, "next
month we shall be moving."

The two looked at him and did not know what to say. It was almost a new thing to them that
he should come and speak a word to them of his own accord.

"Where are we going?" asked Cain. His bearing toward Fausch was peculiar. Ever since he had
known of the stain that clung to him, a sort of lost, uncertain feeling had come over him,
which led him to behave with blind obedience and quiet patience to his father. Without a word
he had submitted when Fausch started to teach him his own trade. Without a word he had seen
the change that was taking place in Stephen's behavior, and that the smith was trying more
and more to protect him from the contempt with which he met everywhere; but he felt his father's
friendship as something undeserved, and accordingly still more painful than his former harshness.
Therefore there was a distressed expression on his face, as he now raised it to Fausch; he
suspected what had led Stephen to decide on going away.

"I am sick and tired of this place," said Fausch.

Cain got off the chopping block. Leaning against it, he stood up and looked his father in the
face. "Are you--are you going away on my account?" said he.

Fausch turned to the door, as if he took no interest in listening to idle talk; then he looked
back over his shoulder at his boy. "On your account!" said he. "How should it be on your account?
I have always meant to go south sooner or later."

Therewith he left the room.

Katharine stared after him with her hands folded above her wooden bowl. She had always been
rather afraid of him, and had formerly almost hated him on account of his obstinacy. When he
began to be kinder to the boy, she did not know what to make of it, but she felt more contented
in the house than before. What he had said today, made her heart beat hard. There was something
about him that seemed as if he were forcibly controlling his own stubborn nature for the sake
of another, and as there had been in his obstinacy something terrifying, so now, in the force
with which he for the first time constrained it, there was something almost great. Katharine
felt her breath come quicker. A reverent timidity came over her. Stephen Fausch had caused it.

Meanwhile Cain had sat down again on his block and was staring into the fire, with his hands
clasped around his knee. "He is going for my sake though," said he musingly to himself.

"Yes," answered Katharine.

Then they kept silence for some time. Each was thinking busily. But in Cain's mind the thoughts
were fairly seething. He began to imagine what it would be like to leave the place where everybody
knew him and pointed at him scornfully. A feeling of relief arose mightily within him. He leaned
back until his arms straightened out. His youthful health and strength seemed at this moment
to effervesce, so that he felt a new buoyancy. This feeling overcame the discomfort he had
felt at the idea of his father's making a sacrifice for him. His joy in life and work redoubled.
His gratitude to his father increased and grew into a resolve: "You must work for him. Good
Lord, how hard you must work."

But once a scruple came over him. "I could have gone away by myself" he said, speaking his
thought aloud. Whereupon Katharine answered, after thinking a little: "It seems to me that
he wouldn't let you go alone now."

After a little while longer she added: "He wants to have you with him."

And so in very few words they exchanged their ideas, until Fausch called out from the living
room that he wanted his supper.

This evening Cain sang as he went to bed. Fausch listened long to his beautiful voice, not
loud, but almost like a distant bell, and the sound rang strangely in the house, where all
was usually so still, because joy found but little room there.

Five weeks later, early on a bright morning, a four-horse team stood before the smithy, packed
with household goods and with Stephen's tools, ready for the journey. Hallheimer, who had spent
the night at the smithy, was there, ready to receive the key. He was to sell the blacksmith
shop among the woods for Fausch. Now, for the first time in many years, the blackened door
of the workshop was closed, the shutters were drawn over the dim windows, and the house already
looked dark and dead. Hallheimer stood on the road talking with the two teamsters who were
helping with the moving. Then Fausch, Cain and Katharine came out of the door at the head of
the steps. The early sunlight lay on the broad stone platform, to which the steps led, and
on which Cain and Katharine were standing. The bright light also penetrated the dark, forbidding
passageway, the door of which Fausch was still holding open. The heavy man with his scorched
and wrinkled face stood in the full brilliancy, and it seemed as if the dark and stubborn figure
found it hard to leave the gloomy and forbidding house where it had dwelt so long.

Cain and Katharine had paused, with their backs toward the road, the smith having detained
them by a word. Hallheimer, who was looking up at them, saw that they were stopping for something
important; for they stood for a moment leaning forward, as if the smith were saying something
to them that they found difficult to understand.

"You!" Stephen Fausch had called out to Cain, as he stepped across the threshold. He might
have left these words until the very last, because they were not easy to say, and after his
"You" it was some time before the rest would come. He seemed to break off every word from within
and to drag it forth with difficulty. Finally he said: "So long as we are going away--you may
leave your name behind you. I--you may change your name to Franz--for the future--it was my
father's name--and he was an honest man."

When he had with difficulty forced out these scanty words, he did not wait for an answer, but
turned at the threshold and closed the house door. The long disused lock creaked under the
pressure of his hard fingers. Because he involuntarily made an effort with the key, the others
did not know that the dark flush that rose to his forehead, was not merely a sign of bodily
exertion, but that he was at the same time expending far more strength than on the refractory
lock on something within himself, that yielded grudgingly like a rusty latch. To change the
boy's name, and so to strike out what he, Fausch himself, had intended to stand for all time,
was--was not easy! With his head thrust forward he now walked down the steps.

One of the teamsters muttered to the other: "There he comes, the old hardhead." They had had
experience with him while they were loading up; the work had to be done exactly according to
his will.

Katharine shook her head gaily as she came down the steps. Her astonishment at what Fausch
had said, overcame her so, that she was quite bewildered, and the motion of her head was the
mechanical expression of her great satisfaction. Cain looked straight before him into the bright
daylight, and his eyes were glistening. He felt as if he were entering into a new life.

The old woman was allowed to sit on a chest in the wagon. There sat the feeble-looking old
soul, thin and stooping on her seat. She wore a neat, dark dress and a black kerchief on her
head, beneath which looked out her pinkish wrinkled face, and her thin, reddish gray, smoothly
parted hair. Her face was almost childishly small. Her faded eyes, which had neither eyebrows
nor lashes, looked down at the smith and his boy, and when Fausch looked up at her, she laughed
back at him. It was a long while since old Katharine had laughed.

Fausch spoke a few words more with the trader, to whom he gave over the keys of the smithy,
then he growled "Go on," and the wagon started. Cain and the smith walked behind. Hallheimer
looked after them and tried to recollect something. Had he not heard rightly, or had not the
smith just now called his boy "Franz?" Had the old man been converted? Was he trying to wipe
away the mark of shame from the poor fellow?

The wagon with its creaking wheels rumbled comfortably along the road, into the strip of woodland
and out again, toward Waltheim. The sun rose higher into the blue sky. The teamsters, the smith,
and the boy, Cain, tossed their smock-frocks onto the wagon. The sharply marked shadows of
the men and of the horses and wagon ran along beside them with comical movements. The day was
very still, the sun reigned supreme and threw so strong a light on the long, quiet, white country
road and the broad, level meadows on each side, that the people seemed like toys in the full
clear light. The little caravan now reached the village, through the very middle of which ran
the road, so that as they entered the place, they could already see the point at the further
edge where they should leave it again. Here too there were very few on the road, because it
was so early in the day. But people were stirring, right and left, at the doors and windows.
The rumbling of the wagon awoke the prying eyes of Waltheim. Each one beckoned or called to
the others. It was as if the little group were running the gauntlet. Fausch and Cain walked
with lowered heads, the smith, because it was his surly fashion, the boy, through bashfulness,
because he knew that now all eyes and tongues were busy with him once more. If from here and
there a greeting came to the two, who scarcely looked to right or left, "Good-by, smith!" "I
wish you a good journey, Fausch!" the smith grumbled: "Yes--yes," or some word that was hard
to make out; but only rarely did he step up to one of his customers or other acquaintance,
shake hands and say perhaps, "We're going away now," or something of the sort, and then turn
quickly away, leaving behind those who would have been glad to ask more about this or that.
And so they reached the end of the village and came out again onto the straight open road.
Cain breathed more freely. As the noise of the place died out behind him, the gossip in Waltheim
would cease also, when he was out of sight.

Then their journey stretched on and on. For two days they traveled over level country, stopping
here and there at modest taverns to sleep or for their meals, and the ranges of high mountains,
which bounded their view on the south, came nearer and nearer. Stephen Fausch and Cain still
continued to walk behind the wagon in the same way. They did not talk much. But whenever they
met any one, or passed through a town, glances of surprise and curiosity followed them; for
it seemed as if the living images of night and day were walking side by side over the land.
Fausch's clothes were dark and coarse, such as he always wore. They hung loose and heavy about
his ungainly form, his hands were blackened, and his large head, which was set upon his broad
shoulders as if thrust forward to meet some obstacle, matched them in color; his thick curly
hair was deep black, and his face looked as if tanned by the hot sun of some foreign land.
Beside him Cain seemed almost small, although he was well above medium height. The symmetry
of his whole form was very striking. He had a free, powerful gait. But his beardless face seemed,
by contrast with the brown tint of his father's, almost like the face of a tender, lovely woman.
He was neatly dressed in some light color, and since, like Fausch, he wore no hat, his blond
hair shimmered in the sunlight.

Wherever they went, the people said of Fausch: "Look at that fellow," then they would nudge
each other: "But see what a pretty boy it is with him."

On the third day the dark, fir-covered mountains closed in around their road in a half circle.
The road led deeper and deeper in between these high walls. Soon the walls became steeper,
and changed to roughly piled rocky turrets, upon whose highest summits the snow glistened.
Then the road itself began to climb, and wound upward over first one hill and then another,
always higher and higher up a wild valley, where the villages seemed to cling to the steep
slopes as if they were glued on, while there were no more cheerful white or yellow houses gay
with flowers as in the valleys, but only huts darkened by the storms and poor, shingle roofed
church towers. The teamsters were kept busy, for the horses found their load heavy to pull.
They swore a good deal, but here and there, when the road was too steep, Fausch and the boy
put their shoulders to the wagon and pushed from behind to help the horses. Katharine was still
sitting on her chest; she nodded now and then, and looked frequently at Cain, whose face had
always been the delight of her eyes.

The sun seemed to favor them, for they had it constantly with them. But the sky above grew
always narrower, the great mountains were piled so high. Finally even the dark firs were left
behind them, and then the last villages. On each side of the road now lay treeless, green Alpine
meadows, boldly arched slopes, from which arose a whole world of glistening white mountains,
with glaciers, pinnacles and rocky peaks. And now the snow often lay quite near the road. Cain,
who had often sung to himself in the valley, when there was no one on the road, was now silent.
But he opened his eyes wide with astonishment, and often paused to draw a deep breath; for
the mountain air was singularly pure and invigorating. And to his surprise, his father too
would pause, and gaze at this world of mountains and rocks and snow, and once he said to him
in a deep, hollow voice: "Isn't it beautiful, my boy?"

Their way now became more desolate, the mountains rose above rugged heaps of boulders, and
it often looked as if the road ended abruptly, closed by a great stone door. But just as on
the previous day they had met large numbers of wagons, pedestrians and muleteers, so here too
they met people, teams and animals. All at once the gray rocks separated, and they reached
a wide spreading mountain meadow. The road led between two small, still, dark mountain lakes,
to three massive but unhomelike looking buildings. This was the hospice among the Italian Alps.

                              Chapter VII

Stephen Fausch: stood once more at the anvil as at Waltheim, and his workshop was even blacker
and gloomier than the one in the woods. It had a single blind window, but a huge door. The
house was built of great blocks of granite, with the workshop in the lower part, and the superstructure
projected far out over the workshop door, and was supported on wooden pillars, so that a sort
of large, covered portico resulted. The sun never made its way into the dark room, but that
did not trouble Stephen Fausch. He would have been somewhat out of place in a more cheerful
workshop.

This large building was the oldest of the hospice buildings. Formerly the monks had lived here
and had for many years kept the travelers' shelter in the mountain pass. The traffic over the
long Alpine road was now increasing from year to year. Simmen, the landlord of the hospice,
had been for the past ten years managing the new tavern, which stood opposite to the old shelter,
and he had at this time become a man of substance.

Stephen Fausch, whose hammer was ringing through the stillness of a cloudless morning, the
second since his arrival at the hospice, was just as he had always been. He was wearing his
stiff, greasy leather apron, a dirty shirt, and fresh coal dust had already settled in his
tangled curly hair.

"Lord!" laughed the stout landlord, Simmen, who was leaning against one of the wooden pillars
and looking into the workshop, "Hallheimer had no eye for beauty, when he sent you to us."

"You must have forgotten to put it in the contract, that a man must be handsome if he wants
your blacksmith shop," said Fausch; but he laughed too--an odd, contented laugh--and stepped
outside to Simmen. In some way the two men liked each other, perhaps because each one saw in
the other that he had been accustomed to hard work and that his life depended upon it.

Simmen was in his speech, bearing and appearance a peasant like Fausch but less rugged, and
stouter, though strong and broad shouldered. He had a fat red face, a grayish white beard,
and was not as large as the smith, though he was a well grown man, and had rather a large stomach,
and very large arms, but he was as quick at his work as a young and slender man. The expression
of his face was intelligent, and his manner of speaking was loud and commanding; one saw at
once that on the mountain he was like a king whose word was the only law in his dominion.

There began to be quite a commotion in the courtyard with its worn stone pavement that lay
between the two buildings. Muleteers and travelers, who had spent the night at the hospice,
were getting ready to leave. A stable boy led two horses to the smith in his workshop; in his
short, selfsufficient way, Stephen took one by the halter and tied him. He did not ask what
work was to be done, but cast a look over both animals and started to shoe the first. The stable
boy was accustomed to take hold and help, but Fausch did not seem to notice his well meant
offers, and managed the horse alone, every motion he made being peculiarly quick and sure.
Simmen and the stable boy exchanged glances, and then laughed. "He knows his job," said the
latter. Then he turned to leave. But just then Cain came along toward the smithy bringing a
pail of milk from one of the little sheds which were scattered here and there on the meadow
land around the hospice. As Simmen saw the boy coming toward the shop, he paused again and
looked at him.

The morning was warm, for it was summer, and the sunlight was already flooding the meadow from
which the young man was approaching. He was barefooted, like the Alpine peasants, indeed he
had been used to run barefooted as a child. His well worn trousers were turned up above his
ankles, and his shirt sleeves were rolled up nearly to his elbows. He came forward with a light,
swaying step, dressed only in shirt and trousers. Everything about him seemed as fresh and
free as the morning.

"Heavens and earth!" said Simmen.

Fausch did not pause in his work. Only once he looked quickly, almost secretly at the lad who
was approaching.

"That's a fine looking boy of yours, Fausch," Simmen went on.

The smith muttered something or other. As he kept on driving nails into the horseshoe, no one
would have suspected that his breath was coming faster and that Simmen's praise had aroused
in him a wild joy, that seemed to be set free for the first time. Just so--with his heart beating
stormily--had he gone to see Maria, in the old days when they had given their promise to each
other.

Cain now reached the workshop, and said, as he passed, "Good morning!"

"Good morning!" answered Simmen, and turned to Fausch: "What is the boy's name?"

The smith looked up with a sullen expression and was so slow in answering, that it seemed as
if he first had to recollect himself, and then as if the words stuck in his throat: "The boy's
name is Franz." At this very moment his stubbornness almost got the upper hand of him, and
as Cain, who had carried the milk to the house, came quickly back, Fausch's hands itched to
take hold of him, and show him to the landlord and say: "His name is Cain. I chose and I still
choose that he should bear that name." The inner conflict in Stephen Fausch was not yet ended.

From the tavern, a voice now called to the landlord, just as Fausch was finishing his work.
Simmen started to go, but the girl who had called him came out in front of the tavern, looked
over toward him and then walked toward the shop, as if she were curious; so then the landlord
beckoned her to come over to them.

"I want you to see my child, smith," said he, "the only one, and a tardy blossom. It had seemed
as if the house would always be empty." He put his arm around the shoulders of the fifteen-year-old
girl, who had approached, and pushed her toward Fausch.

The stable boy was now leading the two horses away. Just then Cain came to call Fausch to breakfast.

The girl gave her firm brown hand to the smith. "Good morning!" said she.

"There is some one else too, Vincenza," said the landlord, and pointed to Cain, and the child,
without any timidity, laughed and gave her hand to the boy also.

"His name is Franz," said her father.

"Good morning, Franz!" said Vincenza.

"You look like a negress beside the boy," laughed  Simmen, and placed the girl close beside
Cain. Her deep black, curly hair was braided and wound around her head, which reached to Cain's
shoulder. She had a brown complexion, brilliant black eyes and handsome features of the Italian
type. When she laughed at what her father said, her white teeth flashed, and the whites of
her eyes too, producing a curious and striking effect between the brown skin and the black pupils.

"She is an Italian," said Simmen, "she looks like her mother."

It was curious how Cain's almost feminine and yet fair and strong beauty came out by contrast
with the other three people.

As the girl, Vincenza, immediately turned away with Simmen, she looked back at the boy more
than once; she had never seen any one like him.

Stephen Fausch was still busy in and around the workshop, and Cain stood near by. His eyes
were full of careless joy, and his chest expanded. Once he began to sing. Then he reminded
his father once more: "Come now, the milk is waiting."

As they were about to enter the house, through the open door which was near the workshop, the
boy once more looked about over the distant view. "It is beautiful here," said he. And Stephen
Fausch did the same, only he did not speak; his words were too costly. Then they went into
the house together.

From this morning on they began to feel at home without the least difficulty. Fausch found
plenty of work. At the hospice there was an almost incessant coming and going of travelers
on foot or in wagons, traders and trains of pack horses or mules. Many of them needed the smith's
help for their animals or their wagons. By some strange chance, no acquaintance came along
the road for a great while. Even Hallheimer did not come, and just as both Simmen and Fausch
began to wonder at his absence, the smith got a letter saying that the trader was confined
to the house by a severe illness, so that not only had he been unable to make his usual trips
to Italy, but the smithy at Waltheim was still unsold, because he had been unable to attend
to such business. But because no familiar face reminded them of the old days at Waltheim, the
memory of what had driven them away from there faded imperceptibly from Fausch's mind as well
as from the boy's. Cain heard no more scornful speeches or mysterious whispers. And so he quite
outgrew the bashfulness that had clung to him formerly; he went about freely, holding up his
head, and some song was always on his lips. But Fausch too was probably passing the most peaceful
days that had fallen to his lot in all his life. He was rejoiced that there was no one here,
who knew about his boy's name and origin, though, indeed, he did not admit this even to himself,
but still stammered over Cain's new name, and every time had, as it were, to drag it out by
force. But more than all, it was the wonderful beauty of the high mountain country, that made
them both feel that the change they had made was a happy one. "I always wanted to see it once,"
said the taciturn smith. He and Cain loved to go out in front of the house, or wander down
through the meadows, or sit on some rock, to marvel over the beauty in the midst of which they
lived. The wonder was ever new, in the early morning, before the dawn glimmered in the east,
in the brilliancy of noon, at sunset, when the mountains and the heavens were all aflame, and
in the night, when no sound broke the silence and the sky was full of stars. At these times
they did not talk, but they drew great deep breaths, and felt such joy merely in living, that
the two unspoiled men were almost without a wish.

All day long Cain helped his father in the shop; but when, at Simmen's wish, the smith took
an apprentice, Cain had more free time and could help Katharine, who was no longer very strong,
or else he was called on by Simmen for all sorts of services. He was both skilful and quick,
and in dealing with people he had a ready, almost fine manner, for which also Katharine deserved
credit, for no matter how weak and tremulous her hands had grown, she still kept control of
the boy. The hospice tavern, this summer, was surprisingly full of life. The guests came in
such numbers that often the four large, ground floor rooms could not accommodate them all.
Thus it often happened, and as his usefulness came to be known, daily, that little Vincenza
would come running to the workshop: "Come, Franz, you must help us."

Then the boy would get rid of the dust of the shop, put on clean clothes, and would soon be
up at the tavern, and it did not take long to teach him. He was soon able to move about among
the tables and wait on the guests just as the maids, the host and his wife and the slender
Vincenza did. It was a pleasure to see Franz and the others at work; they seemed to turn everything
off so easily. The landlord's wife was a very tall woman, nearly a head taller than her husband;
she was pale, with clear-cut features, and black hair and eyebrows. She had a sharp, decided
manner, and if she went to manage matters in the room where the servants and common people,
tradesmen and apprentices were, where it was often noisy and not always peaceful, she did not
need any masculine intervention, to maintain order among the turbulent folk. Simmen, in spite
of his rather unwieldy figure, was active and quick, and took hold himself, when there was
too much for the maids to do, and helped to bring in the food and drink. But Vincenza and Cain
moved swiftly and easily among the guests who crowded the rooms, were now here, now there,
and their work and their pleasure in their work gave them rosy cheeks and brightly flashing
eyes. It soon appeared that in the special dining room, where those of the upper classes sat,
and where Simmen, who had a keen eye for the rank of his guests, always brought the more important
travelers, these guests took especial pleasure in the two young people, and gradually Simmen
told them to devote their whole attention to the service of this room. Many eyes were fixed
upon them. They received many friendly nods and kind words, and because they enjoyed all this
together, they quite unconsciously came to feel that they belonged together, and this feeling
was not confined to their work in the guests' rooms. They began to stand talking together after
their work was done, then one day Vincenza ran over to see Katharine, with whom she was growing
quite friendly. A few days later Cain brought her a book, that he had kept since his own school
days. But when he saw that she was but little accustomed to reading, and therefore could not
rightly enjoy what she read, he asked her to come with him that evening, which was a Sunday,
to the meadow behind the old monastery; there he sat with her, leaning against one of the many
blocks of stone, and read to her. She was so delighted, that she would not let him stop until
he had read her story after story, and it grew so dark that he could no longer make out the
letters. Then the young girl, who was usually impetuous and far from serious, looked very dreamy,
and said, drawing a long breath: "You read beautifully."

And that was true. Cain's voice had a deep, full tone, that was excellent in reading as well
as in singing.

Thus their friendship grew day by day, and this was scarcely surprising, since they were the
two youngest people on the mountain, in fact the only young people.

When the summer gave way to autumn, there was less travel over the mountain road, although
it never ceased entirely, even in the deepest winter, and there were many hours in which Cain
and the young girl could well be spared, or thought they could. They began to wander about
the mountains together. Vincenza acted as the guide, for she had climbed about everywhere with
the goatherds when she was a child, and knew the way. Hand in hand, singing lightheartedly
in the pure, early morning they would climb some green slope, or clamber over rocks and boulders
to the snow near by, or they would wander to a dark valley not far away, where a third lake
lay quite inclosed by steep rocky walls, and known to very few people in all the world. Simmen
kept a boat on this lake, a homely old thing with only one oar. When Vincenza brought Cain
over here one day, he was much excited and' thought that he had never in his life seen anything
so beautiful as this water and the perfect stillness that brooded over it, and he would go
to see it again and again, whenever he had time enough. Vincenza always went with him.

One Sunday afternoon they both found their way to the lake once more. It was Vincenza's sixteenth
birthday.

At the north entrance to the mountain pass they turned off from the main road into a little
rough stony path, on one side of which was a swift mountain stream, on the other a high rocky
wall, and then the path disappeared in the dark valley of this black lake, like a snake creeping
in among the stones. They soon reached the broad, unpainted boat, whose rusty chain was passed
around a rock on the bank. Cain stepped in, took the oar and pushed the bow of the boat further
up on the bank, so that Vincenza could get in more easily. With a quick spring she jumped in
and sat down on the movable seat that was laid across the boat. Cain stood in the stern and
dipped his old weather-beaten oar slowly and quietly. Imperceptibly they slid away from the
shore. The water was black, and as smooth and still as if no breath of wind could find its
way into the walled valley. The dark walls of the bank descended abruptly to the lake, and
only here and there lay a gentler slope of the mountain, but even such spots were desolate
and strewn with rocky débris, and the valley had no outlet excepting the way by which Cain
and Vincenza had entered. The lake was as dark and still as night, but now a bit of sky, as
large and still as the water, lay above it and lent the lake its beauty. It rested on the dark
and jagged mountains that dipped their feet in the water, and every change of light and shade
and color in the sky was mirrored in the lake.

The late afternoon was clear, and beautiful in its deep stillness, as it often is before bad
weather comes on, when the storm is drawing a deep, long breath and only the clouds are moving.
The clouds mounted silently and solemnly in the west above the black, rocky peaks, now a heavy
brown one, that trailed and twisted, and stretched out, till it looked like a bridge reaching
from one sky margin to the other, and then rolled together again and fled away to the east
just as it had approached from the west--now a thin white one, that flew past like smoke, and
then a still more delicate one, that hung like a spider's web in the blue, and suddenly vanished
in the midst of the sky, as if the depths had opened to draw it in.

Cain's boat sped over the water, and the play of the clouds in the sky, was all around the
boat on the lake.

"Look at the clouds," said Vincenza, pointing to the water.

When they had pushed off from the shore, clear sunshine had been shining over the lake. Now
it was quenched, and the shadows always made the valley seem gloomy like night. But all at
once the clouds that were sailing over the sky began to glow. The white ones turned to fragments
of flying flame, and a mysterious light shone through the dark ones, and bordered them with
purple. And the steep and desolate banks and the lake itself glowed with the rosy hue of the
clouds. It was almost as if an invisible torchlight procession were climbing upward over one
of the mountains or rocky wildernesses, and all the flickering torches cast their light into
the lonely valley as they moved onward and upward, step by step.

"It was never so beautiful before," said Vincenza, speaking softly for surprise and reverent
joy. "You're on fire, Franz," she added with a smile, that like her voice was almost reverent.

The glow poured over the boat and the two figures in it. Cain had laid aside his workman's
blouse and stood in his dark trousers and white shirt. As he sculled, his figure bent forward
and back with a great pleasure in the motion, and something like timidity came over Vincenza
as she kept on looking at him, and she said hesitatingly: "You are--a handsome fellow--Franz
Fausch."

"Shall we sing something?" asked Cain.

Vincenza did not answer, but as he unconsciously began to sing, she joined in with him.

They used often to sing together, when they were climbing some mountain path, but always before
their singing had been some gay melody to which their steps kept time, and they had not paid
much attention to what they were singing: But now Cain started one song after another, and
the boundless silence that surrounded them, carried their voices back to them, in a way that
delighted them. At first they sang of their fatherland, then one of the soft Italian songs
that Vincenza knew and had taught Cain, and then a home song of longing: "Why, oh why, my heart,
this sadness."

Cain sculled quite silently. His voice was like a bell, whose tone rose from the water, and
Vincenza's like a little bell, ringing on the mountain, and they found each other, and it was
as if they were floating together over the silent lake, further and further, to lose themselves
among the rocky mounds beyond.

And so Cain and the young girl had almost reached the further bank which was wholly lost and
solitary. Cain drew in his oar and sat down. "Let's stay here a while," said he, and they drifted
contentedly and talked of this and that, and looked down into the lake, and dipped their hands
into the ice-cold water and then looked up again at the clouds. Because the motion of the clouds
could be better seen from Vincenza's seat, Cain got up and sat beside her in all simplicity.
Then they began to interpret the manifold forms of the clouds, and laughed and made fun of
each other, when one of them failed to see in the cloud picture what the other seemed to see,
and got quite excited when both could plainly see the same thing. By and by a curious picture
came floating past, which was composed of two clouds, one narrow and light colored and one
smaller and darker, but both clinging together as if an arm held them. They floated upward,
now closer together, now almost separating, so that it seemed as if the arm that joined them
must be rent in two, but yet it still held fast, and drew them, linked together, far away across
the sky. At first they did not know what to make of this. Then Vincenza said: "That is you
and I, Franz."

They laughed, and for the first time, they could not look at each other, but gazed almost shyly
into the distance. At the same time, each felt the other's presence as something infinitely
good and comforting. Cain playfully stroked the girl's left hand, which lay on the seat, with
his right, and she permitted him and looked quietly down before her. They might perhaps have
sat so for a long while, if Vincenza had not happened to look toward the entrance to the valley,
where something suddenly caught her attention. She looked more carefully. "Isn't that--? Your
father is over there, Franz," said she to her companion. He stood up and recognized Fausch,
who was standing close to the shore and looking over toward them. He was not beckoning to them,
but yet he looked as if he were waiting for them.

"We must go home," said Cain, and seized the oar. But even now they did not go fast. The darkness
that swept down suddenly over the Schwarzsee deepened around them. The ruddy glow was quenched.
The lake lay like polished black glass, and the rocky banks seemed to grow higher.

Stephen Fausch still stood and waited. In the uncertain light his figure seemed to have grown
bigger, like the rocks. As the young people approached the bank, he gave them no greeting,
but turned away, with his hands in his pockets, and grumbled, as they bid him Good evening:
"Where have you been all this time, you two?"

He had on his black, Sunday clothes; but his face had not a Sunday expression. His brow had
an angry look.

They stepped out quietly onto the bank, looked at the smith, to see if he was coming with them,
then all three started on the homeward road. The night had almost descended upon them before
they reached the hospice. During the whole walk they hardly spoke ten words; only Fausch grumbled
once, turning to the side where Cain was walking: "Pretty soon we shall not see you all day long."

Vincenza was inwardly angry. What a bull-headed, unfriendly man he was, the smith!

Cain did not know what to make of his father. Was he displeased with something? What could
have come over him? He did not know that Stephen Fausch was always looking for him when he
was not by. He could not know that the man was hungering for him, perhaps without knowing it
himself, and that his restlessness and that strange wild hunger, that his shut-in nature hid
under a rough, ill-tempered manner, had today driven him to follow them to the lake.

                              Chapter VIII

Fausch's ill temper that evening did not hinder Cain and Vincenza from enjoying each other's
company as before. They were too young and too thoughtless to think very much about others,
and Cain did not suspect the feeling that his father was hiding. Their days grew only more
lovely and contented, as the season changed again, and autumn gave way to winter. The cold
weather drove those who lived at the hospice together in a couple of little rooms. The troops
of travelers diminished. Only one regular post now passed over the mountain daily in each direction.
The trains of pack animals still came; but the work at the smithy grew less. The apprentice
was dismissed. Fausch was once more alone in his shop. Everything lay deep under the snow,
the mountain meadows were one smooth sheet of white. The rocks were invisible and the lakes
lay buried. The mountains round about had lost their gloomy shade, and now seemed to surround
the valley with walls of alabaster, and when the sun shone, the whole white world was radiant.
Where the road, which looked like a single furrow in a white field, separated, running northward
and southward, stood the hospice. The gray walls were plastered with snow, and the buildings
looked like an island that is about to be submerged in some great flood. From without, the
few houses on the lonely mountain had a defenseless look. But inside they were snug and warm,
and there was need of warmth and comfort; for the winter storms came rushing over the snow
fields, and the thick, cold clouds came, bringing night at noonday. Then the travel over the
mountain road would cease, for days or weeks, or if some foolhardy man, or a daring troop came
up from the valley, they would cross themselves, if they got as far as the hospice, and would
gasp out: "That was tempting Providence: that road meant life or death."

The two men from Waltheim passed this first winter as contentedly as the autumn, and the same
contentment lasted into the spring, when the avalanches came crashing down the mountain sides.
When the danger of snowslides was somewhat less, some travelers began to come through the pass,
and one of the first who came was Hallheimer, the trader. Two things were especially noticeable
in him, on his arrival, first that his illness had gone hard with him, for he was still thinner
and his straggling beard looked still more scanty: second, that he had felt very curious to
make this mountain trip once more. He greeted the smith first, for he had taken his wagon at
once to the stables, and wanted to know how Stephen liked the place, and gave him news about
the smithy at Waltheim, for which he had a purchaser in view. Fausch stood by his workbench
and let the words pass by him, muttered an answer now and then and let the trader see that
he did not regret the change. Then the trader wanted to go over to the tavern. Simmen, with
whom he was a profitable and quite a favorite guest, because he always brought news, greeted
him with "Hullo," and Hallheimer soon had the conversation precisely where he wanted it. "How
goes it with the smith?" he asked.

"He's an odd stick," said Simmen. "But he can work!"

Hallheimer grew so eager that his little eyes flashed. "There is something hidden in the fellow,"
said he. "For all that he is so crabbed and crusty outside, like an everlasting workday, another
man is hidden in him, as fine as Sunday, whether you believe me or not. He appreciates everything
beautiful. Mean he may be, and thorny and quarrelsome and quick with his fists. For instance,
the token that he marked the boy with for life!"

"How's that?" asked Simmen innocently. "His boy, Franz?"

The trader pricked up his ears. "Franz?--Does he call him Franz now--the boy?" asked he.

The host begged him to tell what it all meant.

So then Hallheimer told Cain's story, all about his life and about his name.

"So--so," said Simmen. "Base born is he then, the boy?" and the matter seemed to make him thoughtful.

Hallheimer spent the night at the tavern, and seemed to be possessed to talk about the smith.
He listened to what one and another in the house had to say about Stephen Fausch, and told
the landlord's wife and the maid, who brought him his supper, and the working men, with whom
he presently sat in the lower room, the story of Cain's name, and why such a name was given
him. He meant no harm by this, for every one knew all about it where he came from. He simply
kept telling it over again in the excitement of the conversation, meaning to explain to his
listeners what a remarkable fellow the smith was, in spite of his uncouthness.

It happened by chance, that neither Cain nor Fausch came over to the tavern that evening; but
Vincenza heard the tale and afterward sat in the corner of the room lost in thought with dreamy
eyes and burning cheeks.

The next morning Hallheimer had already started southward, when Cain came out of the milk house
and fell into the hands of three workingmen belonging to the hospice, who were busy at the
house. It came over him that they all stared at him, and passed some word back and forth among
them and then laughed, as if they were laughing at him. He greeted them, paused and said: "Already
busy, so early?"

They looked stupidly at one another. But one, an impudent fellow, who had a brandy flask behind
him on the ground, even at this early hour, said: "That's a fine name you have!"

Then they laughed again still louder.

"My name?--" stammered Cain. For a moment he did not know what they meant; but suddenly the
blood rushed to his face. The story of his shame had made the long journey from Waltheim here!
He could not say another word, nor even look at the three men. With drooping head, he slipped away.

Soon afterward he was standing in the workshop, where Fausch was busy making a supply of horse
shoes ready for the summer. The smith had not heard him come in, but, turning around by chance,
discovered him, standing in a corner, with his arms hanging limply and his head on his breast.
"What is the matter then?" he asked.

Then Cain looked up. His features twitched convulsively. "They know it here now--they know
it all," said he slowly.

Fausch dropped his hammer. "What do they know?" he asked.

"About--my name."

A flash of anger rushed over the smith. "I would like to see who dares to call you anything
but Franz here!"

"I want to go away, Father," said Cain, "out into the world--down to Italy, or somewhere--I
want to go away."

"Nonsense!" Fausch burst out. "Get to work! Blow the bellows for me!"

The boy obeyed without remonstrance. "This evening we can talk about it," was all he said.
Then he did as his father had told him. He still held to his decision to go away. But it seemed
very hard to him. He stifled a rising sob. The smith worked as if a hundred horses were waiting
at the door for the shoe he was making. Suddenly he straightened up, laid down his tools and
pointed out some more work for Cain to do. He himself went out without saying where he was
going. Once outside, he went to the tavern, and drank a glass in the servants' room, as he
now and then did. As he sat there, he noticed exactly what he had expected: every one looked
at him differently since yesterday. Simmen, whom he ran across, asked why the boy did not come
over. Then he added with a half sarcastic, half angry look: "I have found out all about you
and--and Franz. You weren't exactly gentle with him in those days."

Fausch was going to ask who told him about it, but Hallheimer immediately came into his head,
and he began to wonder that the story of Cain and his name had not found its way to the mountain
long ago. He did not answer the landlord, but gazed steadily into his glass, emptied it at
one draught, muttered something which Simmen did not understand, and took himself off. A while
afterward he went back to the shop, where Cain was still at work. He said nothing, but wandered
aimlessly back and forth a moment, looking fixedly at his workbench, as if he were searching
for something. Then he said impatiently to Cain, as if he had already sent him out: "Go along,
then!"

"Where to?"

"Can't you pile the wood that was unloaded yesterday?" he growled. Cain immediately turned
and went out.

Stephen Fausch stood for a moment looking toward the back door, by which the boy had gone out;
then he sat down on his anvil, with his elbows on his knees, and stared at the ground, with
bowed head. A band of light that came through the great doorway fell upon him and threw the
man and the anvil into striking relief against the surrounding darkness. He sat there so motionless
and was so dark a shape, from his clumsy shoes to his black, woolly head, that it was not easy
to distinguish where the iron of the anvil ended and the living man began, or whether the whole
was not an iron statue. Moreover, no one could have seen that within him all was turmoil and
struggle and strife.

But Stephen Fausch was thinking. All the way over the long road from Waltheim the slander had
followed them, which they had come so far to avoid. And this gossip and scandal could follow
Cain through the whole world just as easily as it had come here. There was no avoiding it!
And it is your fault, Stephen Fausch, that the boy must be pursued by scandal his whole life
long. But ha ha, it is fair, perfectly fair! No one asked you how you liked it, when Maria
was--ha ha! So he must bear it too, the child of sin, the sinner's name! He must bear it!

It was the old struggle between defiance and obstinacy, and that other feeling of pity for
the boy, that arose once more in Fausch. Only the battle had never been so fierce before. The
two forces wrestled together and shook the powerful man back and forth like a reed, even although
outwardly he sat so still. Then too, other thoughts came to him. He wanted to go away, the
boy! All alone! They must part! Yes, yes, of course, if he were alone, the boy might more easily
pass unnoticed through the world. Yes, of course! But to part!

Fausch shuddered. No longer to have the boy with him, no longer to see him--in whom--Maria
still seemed to live!--He could not sit still any longer. He got up and walked back and forth.
To give him up--the boy!--The thought awoke once more his strange hunger for Cain. It drove
him to the door, to see him.

Over by the stable door the boy was piling up heavy logs of wood, which lay in a confused heap
on the ground. He was working diligently and without looking about him.

Just then Vincenza came across the open space from the tavern. The smith involuntarily stepped
behind the wall by the door, so that she would not see him. From there he continued to watch Cain.

Vincenza timidly came near, looked about to see if anyone was by, then, before he was aware
of her approach, she stepped up behind the boy, who was so absorbed in his work.

"You never came near me all the morning," said Vincenza to Cain. She had quite forgotten to
bid him good morning. She was not usually a very thoughtful girl, or apt to hang her head.
But now she looked quiet and serious.

"You?" said Cain, turning toward her. Then he didn't know what more to say, and went on piling
up the wood.

"I know why, already," said Vincenza. Leaning against the woodpile, she looked at Cain. After
a short pause she continued. "They have told us what a strange name you have. So--that is why
you don't come over any more, isn't it?"

"I am going away--I am going very far away now," said Cain, but even as he spoke the words,
it seemed wholly impossible to him, that they could be true.

Vincenza thought a moment. Then she came closer to him. "If you go, I shall go too," said she.

He could not laugh at what she said, for all that it seemed so incredible. Since he could not
find a word to say, he stroked her hand, which was resting on the woodpile.

Just then Simmen came out of the tavern door, with his face flushed, and called out angrily
to Vincenza: "Are you there again with the smith's boy, you?" It was the first time that he
had had anything to say against the friendship of the two.

The girl turned around. Her little brown face wore an angry expression. "I shall tell my father,"
said she to Cain as she went away. The boy scarcely knew what she meant. But she walked slowly
up to Simmen.

"Franz wants to go away," said she when she was close to him.

"So he ought," answered the host, crossly.

"Then I shall go with him," said Vincenza.

At that, the blood rushed once more to Simmen's face. Cain heard him railing loudly at Vincenza,
as he walked into the house behind her. His angry voice could be heard across the yard for
some time. Cain stood and listened, with a log of wood in his hand. Over at the workshop, Fausch
left the doorway where he had been watching and went out of the back door. He had no peace
of mind left for his work.

                            Chapter IX

Simmen, the landlord, sent for Fausch to come to his little office, which was near one of the
guest rooms. It was a small room, containing a table strewn with papers, and a chair in front
of it; at this table Simmen used to make out the bills for his guests. A little oil lamp that
hung from the ceiling was burning, and threw a fairly good light upon the two men, and around
the room.

It was the evening of the day when the landlord had scolded his daughter on Cain's account.

Simmen looked very much displeased.

Fausch had come just as he was, dirty, and leaning a little forward, as if he had to thrust
his great head through a wall. Something seemed to be seething in his mind, and it often seemed
as if he was so busy with his own thoughts, that he could scarcely take heed of what the landlord
wanted him for.

"You've got to send that boy away," began Simmen in an excited tone. "My--my daughter has seen
too much of him, as young as she is, the child! She is locked in, upstairs now, until she grows
tamer--but--you must send the boy away, and soon too."

Simmen's anger was evident in his hasty, broken speech. He and Vincenza must have had a stormy
time together.

Fausch looked down and made no answer. His thoughts held full sway over him.

Simmen thought that he was considering what had just been said to him. "Anyway, it will be
good for him, to go out into the world, your boy," he went on, trying to persuade Fausch. "It
is always useful for young people."

"True," muttered the smith; he seemed to be waking up. "I will see," he added, and as Simmen
began to advise him as to where he might send his boy, and offered to do something for him,
he said "Yes, yes," in answer. The host might take it for assent if he chose. When he had forced
out these few words in answer to Simmen, Fausch shifted from one foot to the other a few times,
as if the ground were hot beneath his feet, then suddenly he walked out exactly as he had come
in, with clumsy, almost groping steps, as if he were blindly following his own thoughts.

At supper, he sat with Cain and Katharine, more silent than ever. Only when the boy began to
talk very earnestly once more about going away, he spoke harshly to him: "Can't you keep still
till you're spoken to?"

Cain was not afraid of him. He fixed his clear eyes on his father's face. "I will depend upon
myself as much as I can," he went on, speaking of his plans.

Fausch did not answer him again.

"Then--I must go, without your consent," Cain concluded, firmly. "Tomorrow morning early--I
shall--"

Katharine, who scarcely knew what had happened, came around the table and took hold of the
boy's sleeve with trembling fingers: "My boy--my boy!" she said in a warning tone.

But Fausch was a strange picture, as he sat there. His powerful form was trembling, as if with
rage: "Can't you wait?" He forced the words out between his teeth. "Can't you wait till we
have time to think of something for you?"

Cain was startled at his father's appearance and agreed. "When will you let me go then?" he asked.

"You shall soon see," said Fausch in the same troubled tone.

Cain and Katharine looked at each other involuntarily; they had never seen him like that before.
He sat bowed over on the table; from time to time his dark and horny hands opened and shut
convulsively, as if he were squeezing something in his hand.

"Are you ill?" stammered Cain. Then the smith pulled himself together. "Nonsense!" he growled,
and then: "You shall not go, until I have thought things over for you."

There was something in these words that did not permit Cain to oppose him. "Then I will wait,"
said he. In the passageway he turned to Katharine, who stepped out of the room with him. "What
is it, what is the matter with my father?" he asked.

Poor old Katharine was silent and thoughtful. "He is not easy to make out, the master," said she.

But after this conversation, Stephen Fausch passed a long, anxious, sleepless night. His bedroom
was above the blacksmith shop, and was as bare as all the old monastery had been; a hard bed,
a chair and a table were the only furniture. Fausch sat on the bed, near the open window, from
which he could see the lakes and the whole Alpine valley.

At the supper table, an idea had come to Fausch, when Cain had spoken again of going away.
"If the boy wants to go out of your life, Stephen Fausch, cannot you just as well pass out of his?"

He realized that it was the story of himself and the boy together that gave the material for
all the scandal. And he knew perfectly well that it was he, Stephen, whose appearance and manner
were so conspicuous, and who had played the principal part during the course of the events,
who chiefly reminded people of the story. Cain was young and fresh and very much like other
people. He lived in the present time, and suited the present time, so that the world could
take pleasure in him just as he was, and therefore might not ask very much about his past,
if there was nobody there, who was associated with the past and so was more bound up with it
than Cain himself. He, Stephen, was the chief obstacle that prevented Cain's story from sinking
into oblivion. If he parted from the boy, people would judge him for what he was, instead of
for what he had been!

Fausch had carried these thoughts upstairs with him, and they would not let go their hold on
him. As he sat on his bed, he was struggling with these ideas.

Until now, Fausch had gone his own way without troubling himself about anyone. And if a wall
stood in his way, he had pushed through it with his obstinate head, and if anything else was
in his way, he had kicked it aside with his heavy boots. Now for once he must yield, he must
admit that--that in his self-will he had been unjust. If for the boy's good he should go away,
it would be like begging Cain's pardon for what he had done to him, he, Stephen Fausch, who
had no need to ask anyone's pardon!

This idea was so distasteful to him, that he laughed aloud and was too angry to sit still.
He snatched up the chair by its back and put it over by the window, and sat down there and
gazed out into the night.

The night was very still and clear. There were not many stars in the sky, but it was mysteriously
bright as if from some inner light, and the few stars in sight were large and still, especially
one, which was just above a dark mountain and had a smaller companion directly above it. The
star gave a bluish light, like moonlight, that shone downwards from far over the mountain.
The great, solemn, silent wall of mountains, that stood round about the pass, were so clear-cut
at the sky line, that one could count every summit; in the pass itself there was still a soft
light, so that a part of the road was visible in the midst of the darkness, and the surface
of one of the lakes lay glistening through the night.

At first Fausch did not see this nocturnal landscape, for his anger seemed, as it were, to
lay a hand over his eyes. But gradually the brilliancy of the two stars, the larger and the
smaller, caught his attention, then the dark distinctness of the mountains, and then the gray
shimmering road and the strange light on the lake. But the more the great silent picture of
the night gained power over his soul, the more did it appease his anger, until there grew in
the mind of this strange man a stillness and clearness like that which lay over the landscape.
At the same time something recalled to his memory how the boy Cain and Vincenza had lately
wandered about together so often in this same landscape. The picture of the two handsome young
people had fitted admirably into the frame of this beautiful country. He could still see them,
as plainly as if they were actually before him, hand in hand, now over by the lake, and again
on that distant hill slope. Perhaps it was because of his remembrance of the evening when he
had gone to look for them, and had found them at the Schwarzsee, that their image grew upon
him, so sharp and distinct, as they had walked close together, young and slender, and each
with a different sort of beauty. He seemed to see them, and rejoiced in them as he did in the
beauty of the night, and--

Gradually the reason why he was still awake came back to him: Cain wanted to go away! He had
been happy and contented up there, and now he must go!

Fausch stretched himself. "He shall not go, the boy, I say so!" When this idea came into his
head, he almost spoke the words aloud.

And now another thought forced itself upon him: "If he is to stay here, you will have to sing
small, Stephen Fausch, you will have to take back half your life and say, I am sorry that it
was all wrong!" He breathed heavily, as if he were lifting an enormous weight that was almost
too much for human strength. Then he seemed once more to see Cain and Vincenza walking side
by side.

"And--and--you must leave the boy," the thought came over him again. "And--you needn't deny
it--you miss him whenever he is away from you. Since--since Maria gave you up for the other--you
have had no other joy in your life like him--it isn't so easy to leave him for--always, you
needn't pretend, Stephen Fausch!"

The smith rose and laid his hands on the window-sill. He leaned far out of the window for a
long time. The cold night wind blew over his face. But it seemed as if as he rose he had made
his last great effort. He passed his shapeless hand over his forehead and hair, rubbed his
eye with one finger, as if he had just waked up and now he was fully in control of himself.
By means of his strange, holiday joy in the two young people, whom he saw wandering through
the loveliness of the night, the same strange inner joy that he felt in all beauty, he overcame
the other tyrannical force which was the foundation of his character. It had taken a long time,
years indeed, and it had been a life and death struggle, but yet Stephen Fausch had--perhaps
only for a few days, or even a few hours, yet he had conquered his own obstinacy.

What Fausch thought of and reasoned out during the rest of the night, as he walked up and down
the room, Simeon, the landlord learned on the following morning, and the others might guess
it later if they chose.

In the morning, not very early, for haste was not according to Fausch's habits, he went to
see the landlord. "May I have another word with you?" he asked.

The very fact that the taciturn fellow came of his own accord astonished Simmen. He willingly
opened the door of his little office for him, sat down once more at his table, and Fausch stood
on the very same spot as on the previous evening. Everything in the little room was just the
same, except that the lamp was not burning. A gray light reflected from a bare rocky slope,
filled the room.

"Have you anything against the boy himself, just as he really is," began Fausch without any
preamble.

Now Simmen had slept the whole long night since yesterday's fit of anger, and in the morning
his wife, who was quieter than he, and rather peaceable for all that she was so resolute, had
interposed between him and the stubborn Vincenza to such good purpose that his anger had passed
away. He listened to Fausch's question quietly, settled himself comfortably in his chair, and
answered: "What should I have against him? On the contrary, he is handy, very useful and a
confoundedly handsome fellow, only you must send him away, Fausch--it wouldn't suit me at all,
what was beginning between my daughter and him, that--"

He said all this quietly, sometimes making a gesture to explain his words better. When he paused,
Fausch began to speak. Simmen could not understand the first word that he spoke, he brought
it out with so much difficulty, and only gradually did his speech become clearer and more connected.

"I--I--want to ask you," he began--"keep him here, my boy. I marked him with that name--so
that everybody points at him. I--did him an injustice! Don't send him away for that. I--"

Fausch had to pause a moment. The sweat stood on his dark forehead. He passed his hand helplessly
across it.

"Yes, yes," said Simmen meanwhile, "What you say is all very true, but--still he can't stay
here, where he will see Vincenza every day--"

Fausch came nearer and interrupted the landlord. Still in the same broken and difficult way
he went on: "You said yourself that the boy is all right. He ought to come into notice--I think."

At that Simmen laughed: "Only not for my girl--not for Vincenza! She can take her choice by
and by--Smith--I tell you, down in Italy as well as on our side." His laugh turned into a smile.
It had done him good to boast of his own property, while speaking of his daughter's prospects.

The smith looked about him almost timidly. It was strange to see such a self-willed man stand
there helpless and confused. He laid one hand on the landlord's arm, and his hand was trembling.
"I will give the boy up to you," said he. "If I go away from him altogether, it will soon be
forgotten, what he was, and how it was when we were together. Believe me, Simmen. And then
when I am gone you could lead him just as you want to. And by and by no one would ask any more
what his name was, or where he came from--and if he does not turn out as you expect--you could
send him away any time--you could--"

He stopped suddenly. Then he reached out his hand, because he could not find the right words,
and his face blazed scarlet. It came over him that he was like a beggar. Simmen looked silently
at the floor. He was a reasonable man, and he saw what his words cost the smith, indeed he
hardly recognized him. And the boy was a good boy, one in whom you could take some pleasure--and--Simmen
could not help it, that Vincenza's face seemed to come before his eyes. The girl's behavior
did not seem as if the smith's boy meant merely a passing fancy to her.

"You'll never repent it," Fausch forced the words out.

Thereupon the landlord replied thoughtfully: "So let it be then. I will give him employment,
Franz, and--he will stay here alone, as I said! Time will show what comes of it--not that he
is to think--that he is going to get the girl--But he will do well enough for me so far!"

The last few words Simmen said for his own satisfaction, meaning to cloak his own yielding
disposition.

"Good!" said Fausch, and no more, not one unnecessary word. The way in which he now spared
his words, showed how hard it must have been to bring them out before. His awkwardness slowly
changed back again into moroseness. Once, when he was already on the threshold, it seemed as
if something more had occurred to him. He half turned back toward Simmen, but changed his mind.
With his brow thrust forward, he tramped heavily out of the house. "Good-by!" he said.

Simmen looked for some time at the door through which the smith had passed. Only now did he
become fully aware, how bitter the hour must have been for the smith. He could still see him
standing there, dragging out one sentence after another, as if he were doing some fearfully
heavy piece of work, then stopping again and feeling, as it were, for the words which he could
not find. At last he wrenched his thoughts away from the image of Fausch and began to consider
the circumstances that had brought him here. He was not at all pleased to have Fausch leave
the smithy again, for he had had no other such worker there, but yet he agreed with him  as
long as he and the boy were together, their common story would never be buried in oblivion.
So the smith must go, certainly he must go. If the boy--if Franz alone was there--Simmen brought
his fist down on the table half angrily, half laughing to himself--it wasn't really so wholly
impossible, that they should make a match of it, the boy and Vincenza! The host thought how
nicely Franz had served in the guests' room, and what a favorite he had been with the travelers,
and he, Simmen, was not a narrow minded man: A serious and hardworking man stood higher in
his esteem than a rich or well born man of whose character one could not feel so sure. So it
did not seem so impossible to him, about Vincenza and the boy. But--Simmen hit the table another
blow as if he were impatient--all the same the affair was not quite to his taste.

                               Chapter X

When Hallheimer, the trader, came back from Italy, he heard something on the mountain which
astonished him; he was not to sell the smithy at Waltheim, for Stephen Fausch was going back
to his old place within a short time.

The trader asked what had happened.

He got no answer. The smith only said, rudely: "It's none of your business what I do." So Fausch
gave the trader a new nut to crack, though he had long puzzled over the smith's behavior and
character. But Simmen, the landlord, of whom he also asked the cause of Fausch's departure,
was equally evasive.

Meanwhile Stephen Fausch passed the days exactly as he had always done; now and then he nailed
up a box of his possessions and gradually got his goods once more ready for moving. Cain and
Katharine tiptoed around him with a sort of timidity. There was something about Fausch that
they did not rightly understand, and that made them both involuntarily feel small and humble.
Yet his manner had not altered in any way; he was sparing of his words as always, and the little
that he said had a surly sound. He was just the same on the morning when he called Cain into
the workshop, and told him that he, himself, was going back to Waltheim. Cain had listened
eagerly, had then remonstrated, and when his father gave him a harsh answer, he had at last
kept silence, to think things over. And now, days afterward, he was still thinking about it
all. First he would feel joyful, and then doubtful. That he, Cain, was to stay at the hospice
made him joyful, and yet he felt doubtful, because he could not understand his father's sudden
decision to leave the place. But one thing was clear to him: If he were freed from his father's
presence, the talk about the disgraceful name his father had given him would sooner die out,
even if only gradually. He, Cain, if he were alone, would have the courage to stay there, and
bear it, if a couple of servants, men or maids, should ridicule him for a time, until--they
got tired of it. But his father? What was coming over the strange man? Was it not almost certain
that he was making a sacrifice for him, for Cain, by going away? Did he repent of the injury
he had formerly clone him? And was he--it often seemed so in little things--was his father
somewhat fond of him, of Cain?

Oskar Frenzel

The young man was able to think all this over quietly. Thus far, he had felt neither love nor
dislike for Fausch. In all his life, his father had done too little for him to awaken the boy's
love, and yet too much to permit of his hatred. But the more he now thought and speculated
about Fausch, the clearer it became to him, that in the smith's deeper self, there was something
which, until now, he had neither known nor understood, something which gave the boy food for
thought, and made him feel a sort of awe, as if Stephen were suddenly very far above him.

Meanwhile the time passed by. The day came when Fausch's goods and chattels were all packed.
The same wagon stood again before the door that had brought the goods up to the smithy months
before. It was now loaded, and Katharine, a feeble old woman, took her place on a chest as
before. But today she could not keep her eyes dry, for Cain was staying behind, her boy on
whom she had leaned for many years with a feeling of comfort.

Cain had already been living at the tavern for some days, and was sharing a room with a young
working man, and had nothing in the world to complain of. The number of guests had increased
again, there was plenty of work, and Cain and Vincenza hurried about as of old in the room
where the higher class of guests were entertained. Both did their work even more quickly and
easily than before, for an inner joy shone in their faces and made their fingers fly. The guests
watched them with pleasure. If the landlord's wife looked in, her expression was serious and
austere as always, but she saw nothing in Cain to find fault with, and if Simmen himself looked
into the room on the right, he would nod to himself and then go out again: the smith's boy
was not so bad to have about, he was a real help in the house!--

Stephen Fausch's horses and wagon started, and the teamsters ran alongside. Then Cain came
out of the tavern with his father, who had been to say good-by. Simmen and a few others came
out, to see them off.

"I will go with you as far as the path to the Schwarzsee," said Cain to Fausch, then hurried
after the wagon, swung himself up and sat down by Katharine. No pair could be more unlike:
he was like a slim, flexible young tree, she like an old, old crumbling branch. Stephen Fausch
noticed nobody. In his dark, heavy clothes, with his blacksmith's cap on his head, he walked
behind the wagon with lowered head, and fell into a long, regular step, that suited the rhythm
of the rumbling wheels. He scarcely seemed to concern himself even about Cain.

The weather was about to change. The clouds were chasing each other across the heavens and
slowly weaving themselves into a silver gray shroud. But the sun behind them was still so strong,
that a dazzling light fell upon the landscape. The gray road lay clearly defined with the lakes
on both sides and the dark rocky peaks on the north, among which it vanished. Along the pale
colored road, in the dazzling light went the heavy wagon, the smith marching stolidly behind it.

He now fell back a few steps.

As he did so Katharine laid her trembling hand on Cain's. "I must tell you," she began mysteriously,
and looking back at Fausch, as if he might hear her.

"Yes?" asked Cain.

"You may believe me, that it is half killing him," said she, motioning toward Fausch, "that
he cannot have you with him any more."

"Yes--I--" said Cain, and could say no more. He looked back at his father: the feeling grew
upon him, that the smith was doing a great thing for him.

"You may believe me," whispered Katharine. Then they both kept silence, and involuntarily looked
uneasily at the smith who was tramping along behind them.

The lakes were now left behind, and the rocks were nearer. Far behind from the hospice some
one came running swiftly. It seemed to Cain that he recognized Vincenza; but she turned off
from the road into some hilly meadow land and disappeared. So he was not sure whether he had
seen correctly. He and Katharine now began to talk of things that had to do with their approaching
separation. The old woman was overcome by grief, and her tears flowed freely down the furrows
on her wrinkled cheeks. Cain tried his best to comfort her, and his sympathy and affection
moved him so, that he did not notice when they passed the Schwarzsee and the road began to
wind down toward the valley. When he again took note of his surroundings, they had gone quite
a distance downward, and he called out quickly to the teamsters to stop and let him get off.
At the same time he looked about for Fausch, who was nowhere to be seen.

"My father has not come with us," said he to Katharine. "You might wait for him here," he added,
and then said: "I must go now. I shall meet my father on the road." Then he shook hands with
the old woman.

"We shall never see each other any more," she lamented.

"Take care of yourself," said he. "You will be glad to be back in the old place again down below!"

Then he jumped down. He hurried on up the hill and did not look back again at the wagon, which
stood in the road. A restlessness drove him involuntarily onward. It seemed strange that his
father did not come.

As he approached the entrance to the pass, he saw the smith standing by the roadside. He was
leaning against a rock, from which there was a wide view over the high plateau. The glaring
light, that the white sky cast over the earth, had grown yet more dazzling. The whole valley
floor seemed to be brought quite close to the eyes. The dark lakes glistened; the road lay
between them, a blinding stripe of white. The mountains stood like a dark wall beneath the
glistening sky, showing every gap and fissure in the rocks, which were like scars on their
weatherbeaten forms.

As Cain came forward, Fausch turned toward him. "Are they waiting down there?" he asked.

Just then some one came out from between the rocks, by which he had been standing. It was Vincenza.
She behaved as if her coming was perfectly natural, but her face was flushed. "I didn't have
a chance to bid you good-by, Smith," said she.

He took her hand in his, and as Cain came forward just then, he took the boy's right hand too,
and laid it beside Vincenza's. The two hands had plenty of room in one of his. The smith laughed
to see them there. But it was such a strange, uncanny laugh, that it entirely changed the expression
of his face. It was neither merry nor scornful. Perhaps all the kindliness that Stephen Fausch
had to give lay in that one laugh. His solitary eye looked larger and more quiet than usual.
And as his gaze rested thus on them both at once, they felt as if he were trying to say: "So--you--you
belong together, you two!" And then, with his free hand he stroked their two hands a moment,
and that was perhaps, together with the laugh, the first outward sign of love that Stephen
Fausch had shown to anybody, since Maria's death. It was a poor, thirsty, dried-up love, and
far from tender; but as his hand touched Cain's, something happened that no one saw; the smith's
thick lips trembled for a brief moment, in the midst of his black, woolly beard. It seemed
improbable and yet--perhaps Fausch had stifled a sigh. Then he looked away from the two young
people, and as he turned about, his eye wandered once more slowly, and as if reluctant to lose
the sight, over the Alpine meadows, to the hospice, and over the dark and rugged mountains
and over the dazzling heavens above.

"Well, good-by!" said Fausch to Cain and the girl, letting their hands go. And he walked heavily
away, with head bowed down, showing in his bearing the old churlishness. He did not look back
again.

Cain and Vincenza looked after him for a long time. They could see him plainly. If he sometimes
disappeared around a bend of the road, he would reappear far below, and they would soon see
him again, walking behind the wagon, dark and heavy and big.

Cain was very still. He had taken off his hat and held it in both hands. He did not really
know why he did so. He looked after his father in amazement, and it was on his account that
he had involuntarily taken off his hat.

Vincenza now turned to him. She was breathing fast, as if she were only now beginning to recover
from her quick run. "Do you know why I ran after you, Franz?" she asked. Her eyes were shining.

Cain shook his head.

"It came over me suddenly that your father might take you with him."

The fear that had driven her to follow him, still showed in her words and in her eyes. Cain
laid his hand thankfully on hers; they were still watching the little group that was moving
downward to the valley.

"He is a strange man, your--the smith," whispered Vincenza at last. "I was always half afraid
of him."

Cain suddenly seemed to awaken from deep thought. He turned, took the girl's hand, and started
to walk back toward the hospice with her. As they walked, he gazed into the distance with wide
open eyes. He was still carrying his hat in his hand. Suddenly he stood still. "It seems to
me," said he, with a dreamy look, "that we have all misunderstood him--my father."

Vincenza dared not reply, his manner was so unusual. He walked silently along beside her, and
that evening, and many times afterward, his thoughts were more with Stephen, who was gone and
never came back, than with Vincenza, on whom his heart was set, and from whom he soon learned
that Simmen would not refuse her to him.

                            JAKOB SCHAFFNER

                              * * * * * *

                             THE IRON IDOL

                     TRANSLATED BY AMELIA VON ENDE

In one of our great industrial centres lived a childless couple, a workingman and his wife,
by the name of Höflinger. They had been married ten years and had become resigned and accustomed
to their solitude. The husband turned the sentiment, which no offspring of his could claim,
toward the hopes and the aims of his class. He was known as a well-read, serious and reliable
man, whose political activity was founded upon practical reality rather than theory and who
was hostile to the exploitation of principles popular with the ordinary run of Socialist party
leaders, but not always truly beneficial to the proletariat. Hence he was held in higher esteem
by the trades union than by the party. He usually had a young man in his home who not only
enjoyed room and board at moderate price, but, if he had a good head, was trained by Höflinger
in class-consciousness and a practical knowledge of the tactics of life. Thus Höflinger had
no difficulty in filling the vacancy whenever his boarder drifted away.

As he showed a fatherly solicitude toward these youths, so his wife spent upon them her unused
motherly gift and feeling. She had never buried any of the ardent desires of her womanhood;
she had never known sickness. In spite of the shadow of her childlessness she went on living
her full, significant woman's life, and constantly defied the gnawing thoughts of what might
have been by a cheerful acceptance of what life offered her. She was the daughter of a tailor,
a dark blond of trustworthy aspect, quietly inclined toward play and fancy, but contented to
express it before the men of her household only as a half humorous, half melancholy mood. Her
father had called her Marie, but one of his customers, a lieutenant-general, had named her
Spiele. She on her part called her husband, whose real name was Ferdinand, "the long one,"
not so much for his bodily length, as for the extent of his activities, calculations, schemes
and unionist controversies, which sometimes made her lose her breath and her judgment.

At this time Höflinger was occupied with the organization of a laborers' consumers' league.
This work frequently called him away and kept them apart, and though he always returned to
her, still she resented his having been separated from her for a time. In the factory, too,
Höflinger occupied a special and independent position: he served the iron saw, a giant of double
a man's height. This had impaired his hearing; figuratively speaking, you had to use Gothic
type in order to make him understand. On the other hand, this deficiency favored his tendency
to accept the phenomena of life summarily and to survey things from the organizer's standpoint.

To this couple came a young laborer, Victor Pratteler, who had but recently stepped out of
the narrow, securely guarded realm of hand labor into the open and surging world of the iron
proletariat. He completely lacked that personal imagination and that subjective instinct toward
his material which make the very soul of the locksmith and the blacksmith, so that their grasp
becomes the servant of a sixth sense, the sense of form. Pratteler's hand had not groped its
way toward this higher sense, so he employed it where the course of work goes on abstractly
without a will of its own and a predestined process is watched by a soulless eye and served
by a passionless grip. On the other hand, there survived in Pratteler something of the whimsical
mood of that vanishing social type, the journeyman. He had highfaluting ideas and pompous movements,
and his speech was bloated with superfluous pathos and personal conceit. His relation to life
was a many-linked chain of demands. Neighbors, both men and women, he looked upon from the
viewpoint of a young steer; the former were either obstacles or they were bridges and steps
leading to the pretty girls, women and other treasures that he would have liked to own all
for himself. Thus by a single formula he interpreted the whole world. His manner was violent,
combative and absolutely inconsiderate without an inkling of deeper relations. He was a native
of Switzerland.

Like a motley calf driven by a storm he stumbled one evening into the garden of the Höflingers.
He arrived at the fence on a Wanderer wheel, rather new in its coat of white paint, sharply
applied the brake, jumped down before it had worked, threw the wheel with a careless movement
against the paling and approached before Spiele's wondering eyes with big important stride.
It was a week-day, but he wore his good blue suit. Rakishly perched on his black hair was a
sporting-cap with green and brown pattern. Under his Adam's apple, like a burning heart that
had been pushed up, was a blood-red necktie, the ends of which flared out from under his turned-back
white collar. He had strapped his trousers, so they bulged outward, but Spiele immediately
noticed that he had crooked legs and wore tan sandals over gray hose. Out of the collar rose
a neck, long, thin and bare as a vulture's, and crowned by a round black wrangler's head of
medium size.

In an offhand manner and with slight embarrassment he touched his cap and said that he was
Victor Pratteler. When Spiele did not immediately reply, he asked with some discomfort, whether
he was at the Höflingers', and frowned. With laughing eyes Spiele answered that he was right
and told him to sit down on the garden bench and wait until Höflinger came home. Then she continued
to sprinkle the young lettuce plants which she was growing in narrow beds; when she had finished
them, she turned her attention to the peas. She did not look at the young workingman again;
she had already a colored photograph of him in her head which she could bring to life whenever
she wished. When she turned the corner of the cottage with her sprinkler, she began to hum.
The gay lad gave her cause for amusement and put her in a merry mood. She read in his frown
that attitude of unreasoning resignation without which a waiting heart cannot maintain its
elasticity for any length of time.

When the day's work was over, Höflinger arrived on his wheel and took charge of the new guest.
He showed him the shed which already housed Spiele's bicycle and which by a clever manipulation
would hold all three. At supper it appeared that Pratteler, who was to begin work in the factory
the next morning, did not expect his trunk until tomorrow or the day after. So Spiele had to
fetch a pair of old trousers and a coat and working-shirt of "the long one," which she did
with ever-laughing eyes. In order to avoid all misunderstandings, Pratteler at once declared
that he hated all emperors and kings, because they were parasites who sucked dry the German
people and were responsible for its poverty and stupidity. They should be smoked out in order
to make way for the state of the future, which would establish conditions more worthy of human
society. If things had gone right, those conditions might already exist, for after all labor
is in the majority; but the leaders and representatives put the workingmen's money into their
pockets and cared not for the shrunken stomachs when they were sitting among the fat ones.
Reichstag was nothing but a club of heavy-weights. All were eager to have the ministers tickle
them under the arms; that meant some service to be rendered, and this again brought marks of
honor and perhaps a decoration. Everything was humbug. Workingmen should help themselves and
throw out all that reactionary mob, army, clergy and aristocracy; otherwise there could be
no change for the better.

Spiele looked frequently at the long one to watch his expression while the savage Swiss was
emptying before him his social carry-all. Höflinger said so little that the young man suspected
him of being at heart a bourgeois, of having fallen away from the labor cause after he had
earned his house and garden. Höflinger noticed that his wife was secretly laughing, and, as
he knew that she was sometimes opposed to his well-planned tactics, he let her enjoy the diversion.
The more firmly a man is standing on his feet, the more indifferently will he look at the antics
of others. Besides, he knew exactly who had furnished her the premises upon which she was now
basing her amused opposition to him.

Early in the morning the two workingmen rode together to the iron-works spreading out at the
opening of a ravine about an hour from Höflinger's house. Pratteler wore "the long one's" trousers
and coat. He had to turn back the sleeves in order to use his hands and the trouser-legs rested
in many folds upon his open sandals. Under the blue shirt collar he had again his red tie,
so people might see at once what he stood for. He pedaled with full force and frequently had
to slacken his speed in order to have Höflinger, who did not seem to be in a hurry, catch up
with him. Whenever he saw people on the road he tooted violently, while Höflinger tinkled his
little bell. When workingmen greeted Höflinger, Pratteler responded with sombre mien, as if
he were going to a battle. When they made a joke, his brow contracted in a frown. What was
there to jest and laugh at, where they should rise in revolt against reaction? Everywhere he
saw too much peaceful comfort. He was determined to infuse a new spirit into the life in this
valley. After the last turn in the road the factory buildings came in sight. Pratteler saw
a whole crowd of flues and chimneys in full activity. Behind the iron-works were the woods,
almost entirely firs, with only a few beeches between. The water power of the brook which came
tumbling out of the forest was used partly for the lighting plant, partly for the works themselves.
When Höflinger and his new boarder and fellow-workman rode into the factory courts, they joined
a host of other cyclists, and Pratteler's red necktie stood out significantly. Somebody asked
Höflinger whether he had caught Garibaldi, and all who heard the remark began to laugh, while
Pratteler frowned in silence.

When the siren gave the signal to begin work, Höflinger saw that the newcomer made a good start;
and the experience he had had with zealous beginners gave him reason to anticipate that the
Swiss youth would become a good workman. So his relation to Pratteler assumed a pleasant form.
Like a priest Höflinger served the wheezing and squealing idol which daily swung its high flaming
face about itself. Pratteler only picked its teeth and wiped its mouth. His task was not without
danger; of three machinists that did the work, one was sure sometime to be carried from his
place with maimed limbs or dead. The idol had neither brain nor eyes, and he who served it
had to be doubly on his guard. Loaded carts came rolling along tracks and stopped automatically.
Pratteler manipulated the crane which seized the iron bars and laid them at the feet of the
idol. Then a claw would project itself and draw the bar toward the revolving teeth. The bar
cried out like a beast. Behind the disk a whirlpool of fire was set free. The idol screamed
and screeched. At the end it whistled, and when it was done, it rang a bell. Then the fragments
that had dropped behind were automatically removed and the claw reached out for its next work.
Around the idol iron stairs led up and ended in a circular gallery.

When Pratteler stepped up to the monster he scanned it with a quick and hostile glance. For
a moment he stopped short and felt disinclined to grapple with it. Then he approached with
determination, gritting his teeth as if it were an enemy. After an hour he was familiar with
all its secrets. He learned that it was a rather simple idol. Yet its gigantic proportions
again and again impressed him, and he could not understand how Höflinger treated it so familiarly
and had never mentioned it to him the day before. Nor had he said anything about the masses
of workingmen who were here working for the profit of others and among belt-gearings and cables
and rows of steel beasts of all sizes and forms were day and night risking their lives. Those
workingmen, too, moved about in a self-contained and indifferent manner. They crouched silently
behind their machines, carried burdens, spat at intervals, and did not seem to mind that the
foremen watched them and the engineers ordered them about. Pratteler hated all foremen, feared
the machines with a dangerous destructive fear, and thought the engineers tyrants like Gessler,
every man of them deserving to be the aim of a new Tell. They played at being masters, scorned
the proletariat, and worked for the profit of the capitalists who paid them.

At noon other masses appeared in the factory courts: the wives and children of the laborers
brought the lunch. They waited at the places assigned them until the siren blew. Then the workingmen
rapidly left the shops and crowded toward their kin, unless they had brought their food in
the well-known blue dinner-pails that were waiting for them on the stoves in the heating-rooms.
Such herd-like movements annoyed Pratteler's individual and democratic sense and offended his
good old journeyman traditions. Unwillingly he followed Höflinger into the third factory court
where Spiele stood beside her wheel. Höflinger had invented a special arrangement for fastening
the lunch-basket to the wheel. Thus he could enjoy a freshly cooked meal while the others had
to be satisfied with the taste of warmed-up food, and he also had the satisfaction of spending
a minimum of time and strength upon what was a necessity. Only in bad weather did the two ride
home; but that made the long one lose his noon-hour nap which he never failed to take after
lunch in one of the factory sheds.

Pratteler remained in the court, which he surveyed discontentedly, as the women and children
slowly retired. Spiele, the tailor's daughter, suspected with her sensitive instinct that he
was eager to express some opinion; so she busied herself with her wheel. When she thought it
took him too long to say something, she turned around to bid him good-by. Then he shrugged
his shoulders and said he would not stay on this job. He had expected to find zealous proletaires
who hated capital and fought for freedom, and he had found that everything was very well arranged
and trained to carry out the designs of capital. Everything was after all a humbug. Whenever
he was dissatisfied, he made a wry mouth, which amused Spiele. But she consoled him. What he
had seen that morning was only work-hours on a week-day. After all one had to live, and a small
tree was better than none at all for purposes of shade. He should inform himself about the
organization; workingmen were wont to awake at nights like bats. As far as she knew, plenty
of mosquitoes were swarming about at times. Then she nodded pleasantly, mounted her wheel and
rode off.

Victor looked after her in surprise. He noticed her low black shoe and the slender instep showing
from beneath the skirt as she worked the pedal. She wore thin black stockings, which in some
way suddenly impressed the Swiss youth. Her bare blond head shone brightly as it disappeared
through the gate into the outer court. He remembered that she had no children; that, too, struck
him and made him think. Why had she no children? So that was humbug, too, like everything else.
All life was humbug. The long one was also a humbug. He owed his wife children, and he only
nursed himself; even now he was lying asleep in the shed. Victor despised him; he did not deserve
such a woman; she was far too good for this wretched toil. That she should come every day on
her wheel to bring the lunch and stand at the door in the crowd was unendurable to him. Good
heavens! There was nothing for it but to kill all that were responsible for this state of things,
beginning from above with the thrones and the gilded armchairs, until the people should come
into their own. But the wife of Höflinger had impressed him today. She seemed to make fun of
this life; that made him think. He concluded that this childless wife deserved more intimate
study. Everything else could go to hell. When the siren called him back to the idol, he held
his head more haughtily than ever before.

One day he remembered Spiele's hint to inquire about the organization. Höflinger, who had considered
it premature to speak of it or take him there, glanced at him in surprise and silently turned
back to the idol. But in the next working pause he told Pratteler that he could go with him
to a meeting that night, if he cared. Victor went along. They entered a large hall, the walls
of which were hung with all sorts of pictures, trophies and wreaths. It was the home of two
singing societies, a brass band and a dramatic club, each having reserved one wall for its
photographs and testimonials. Now workingmen were sitting around the same tables. Under the
shining loving cups, wreaths, bows and flags their colorless gray or brown clothes reflected
the want and stress of their existence like a spiritless sea. Victor's eye took in at once
the contrast between the childish trash of the privileged class that covered the walls and
the seriously contained, yet deeply gnawing consciousness of belonging to the disowned that
slumbered in the men who now sat in the bourgeois atmosphere of the hall.

Höflinger took his place at the table of the executive committee. Pratteler was surprised to
learn that the spirit of revolt had been haunting the iron-works for some months past. A big
strike was being planned in order to rebel against decades of oppression and prepare the foundations
for a better future. Pratteler was confused. He could not understand why he had not met this
spirit in any of his noon hour ramblings. He could not conceive that everybody should then
take a nap, return to his machine when the siren blew, draw himself in when the idol wheezed
or one of its servants passed. An elderly workingman got up on a chair and reported how far
preparations had gone and how large the strike fund had grown; he also mentioned what organizations
had declared their solidarity and their readiness to give aid.

Victor was interested in everything that referred to the strike, but could not approve the
circuitous preparations and all the secret machinations with which the attack upon the monster
was planned, instead of seizing it simply by the horns, as he thought they had the power to
do. When the old man stepped down and some others had spoken, he could hardly restrain himself.
He felt too closely hedged in in this gingerly movement of the mass. He swallowed nervously
and clutched and tugged at his collar; he gulped down one glass of beer after another to quiet
himself. In his mind he saw a vision of violent revolt, the masses furiously attacking the
idol with axes and clubs, and hacking it to pieces. The bourgeois state was just such an idol.
Höflinger got up on a chair and asked all those who had not yet joined the organization, to
sign their names. He reminded them of the powers that work up singly from the depths and are
back of every uprising of mankind: discipline, devotion and perseverance. He informed the meeting
that a food-centre had been established at which a striker's wife could for a minimum price
get her supply of coal, bread and potatoes; out of this centre was to grow the workingmen's
consumers' league. Finally he warned the men earnestly against damage to the company's property,
smashing of windows and breaking of machines. Help should come in a positive and constructive
manner, and the destructive tactics of passive resistance and of sabotage should be discarded
as being unworthy of a German workingman. One should not forget that besides a strong body
one had to transmit to one's children class honor and trade character.

These words from the lips of the childless man stung Victor into opposition. He gasped for
air and struck the table with his fist. Then he hissed like a rocket; he, too, could talk as
well as the long one. Before anybody had noticed him, he was standing on his chair, challenging
attention by an imperious movement of his fist, and swallowed once more. "Attention, Garibaldi
wants to speak!" called a workingman that knew him. All looked astonished at the stranger.
Many laughed at his agitation. His necktie glowed lurid like a midsummer eve bonfire against
the pictures and trophies on the walls.

"Workingmen, proletaires!" he began. "I am of another opinion. Why? Because capitalists are
vampires and scoundrels. Why should so many precautions be taken? Up and on, as the old Swiss
used to do--that is what I say. If our fathers in Switzerland had waited until a consumers'
league had been established and the men of Zurich or Basel sent money, all the cats would still
be sitting on their tails and we should be paying our debts with Austrian coin. By God! They
rose with clubs and ploughshares, and when the others sent a new army, they attacked it again
and again, until there was none left. We must smash all the iron and other idols and serve
their servant with the arrows of Tell. And when new ones are erected, we must hack those too
to bits. The whole harvest must be ours. We don't want to spill our blood for the wives and
the children of others. We must plague capitalism until it gets tired and surrenders. That
is the meaning and purpose of capitalism: to capitulate. Everything else is good for people
who have no children and no future to think of. They imagine one sort of class honor and another
sort of trade character, which at the end amounts to as little as one had before. Class rule
and trade fortune must come first; then character will follow. When Switzerland got to that
point, Swiss character developed. But one must have courage, by Jove! Well, I have had my say!"

He nodded at the assembly with an important and excited air, hesitated a moment, and then got
down from his chair. When he was no longer in sight, there was a moment of silence. Then a
murmur of amusement and surprise arose and ended in good-natured laughter. But that, too, did
not last long. The old workingman who had opened the meeting got up once more and all heads
turned to him. So they passed over the rugged cliffs of Victor's address to the order of the
day and listened to the final words of the old leader.

Yet they had taken the measure of the long-necked Swiss fighter just as Spiele had done. By
this debut he became a well-known figure and his publicity began, without affecting or modifying
his personality. The surname Garibaldi was soon generally accepted, but with its irony mingled
something like an affectionate respect and beyond that something of that motherly expectation
which is not spoken of: he was considered the promising child of the family. Victor on his
part felt uneasy at this kindly and somewhat sarcastic indulgence which the submissive mass
showed him from that day on. The laughter had struck him like a thunderbolt. Yet he felt vaguely
that by participating in the movement he had linked his fate and established his kinship with
that mass. Instead of celebrating the occasion by a feast, it began without further ceremony
to correct and to train him, and this feature of their mutual relation was one he disliked.
It should have been reversed: the mass should have been corrected and trained. It had no backbone
and no faith in its own fist. It wanted to do everything by organization and pleading for help
from Tom, Dick and Harry. It had no real men at the head. The committee was a calculating and
deliberating bunch of old maids, and the organization was a girls' school led by their apron
strings. He thought with indignation of those conditions, worked himself into a rage when he
remembered that those immature fellows had laughed at him, and turned his attention to the
tailor's daughter.

Höflinger did not allude with a single word to Victor's maiden speech. He did not even seem
to have felt the pointed hint about childless people, or he bore him no grudge. That made Pratteler
more angry with him. That long fellow had no temperament; that is why the couple had no children.
Victor sulkily took up Spiele's sprinkler and deluged her lettuce plants until they were almost
drowned. He scratched the weeds from the paths, raked them up and grumpily fed them to the
rabbit. He thought by himself that Höflinger could well afford to talk: he would not be thrown
out of his home when he went on strike, because he was a house-owner. Then he spat furiously.
After all the long one had worked hard and saved in order to get where he was. And if he had
drawn his purse-strings tight, when the organization was in need, he would not have been held
in such esteem. So much he had to admit: that Höflinger was devoted to the cause. But he had
a good job; so what credit was there in it?

Victor cleaned Spiele's wheel. He took it apart, washed everything in kerosene, oiled all the
parts and set it up again. There was a human being for whom it was worth while to do something.
He proposed that she should have the handle-bar lowered; he himself almost touched the road
with his nose when he was on his wheel, and brushed the branches with his back: that he considered
the sporting way to ride. When she refused and laughed, he laughed with her, and their merriment
and friendliness was doubled. But she ought to have an auto-horn, he said; that would make
the children heed her more than the thin little bell. When she refused that, too, he suggested
that she should discard the mud-brake to make the wheel run more lightly. He had removed his;
and when he returned in rainy weather he bore on his back an armor of dirt thrown up by the
machine. When all the spinach was eaten, he dug over the bed and wanted to help Spiele plant
cabbage. But when he came home that evening, she had done it herself. He sulked, she laughed,
and finally he joined in her laugh.

Spiele visibly brightened. She grew more lively and talkative. It struck him, how often and
how heartily she laughed of late. Höflinger, too, noticed it and liked to hear it, without
relaxing his stiff back and sharing in the merriment. His head was full of a hundred schemes
and a thousand cares concerning the strike and the future of other people's children; in that
unequal triangle he was the remotest angle. At least so it seemed in day-time and while Victor
was present. Pratteler would have liked to know how the couple looked at each other and what
they talked about when they were alone; he could not imagine it. But he never noticed any disagreement
or coolness. Spiele teased her husband with all sorts of pointed allusions, as behooved a tailor's
daughter, to his difficult social responsibilities; but he never took it ill. Even when she
trespassed beyond the permissible, he preserved his equanimity and only allowed an ironical
smile to play about his lips. Then she would grow angry, call him wooden, and ask Victor to
play cards with her. But the long diplomat held his own so cleverly that she could not keep
away from him for any length of time. At the second or third game she would laugh, or in dealing
throw eight cards at him, and he would placidly take them up, even if he had been reading a
book. Victor never knew the moods of the pretty woman to produce even a shadow of annoyance
or to spoil an evening.

On fine Sundays they went out on their wheels into the country. The two men had Spiele between
them. In dodging Höflinger rode ahead and Pratteler remained behind. Sometimes they had to
keep long in that order, because there were many pedestrians on the road. Then Höflinger's
old and well-worn machine, which did not run freely, clattered ahead, and the little round
bell strapped to the middle bar tinkled incessantly. On account of his long legs Höflinger
sat rather high; it was quite a distance from his saddle to the button on his cap. Spiele sat
two heads lower. Her legs were not long; she reached up only to her husband's shoulders. Victor
was the last, bent double over his wheel as though he had cramps. From the front bar extended
two bent cowhorns which he held at their very ends, so that he seemed to fly across the road
with arms outstretched. But now and then his animated glance would take in Spiele's trim figure
and sometimes he remained behind in order to take a good start and to rush on like an express
train. He especially admired Spiele's small feet which so strongly and cleverly worked the
pedals and showed a commendable perseverance when it was needed. Otherwise she preferred a
leisurely comfort in her movements. But when she rode along the street behind her long husband
and before her gay little admirer, her head was humming with all sorts of notions and she made
up her mind to torment Höflinger a bit in order to get him closer to her.

She began by suggesting that he should add a horn to his wheel, since the little cat-bell was
insufficient for the road. She referred to Victor, commending the loud blast which made all
children run to safety. She also called his attention to the safety of those behind him and
showed her concern about her own; so he gave in and bought a little horn. Then she complained
that his back shut out the view from her because he was perched so high and advised him to
lower his handle-bar. He suggested riding behind, but that she would not permit: Victor would
speed too much and with him she rode more safely. So Höflinger agreed to lower his handle-bar.
But now she complained that she could not bear to see his bent back and peevishly asked him
to raise it again. With such a longlegs one could do nothing; if he had a well-proportioned
figure like Victor, it would be easier to get along with him. Pratteler had substituted sole-leather
for the worn-out rubber on Höflinger's pedals, because it would last longer. Now it happened
that he slipped on the hard and smooth surface. Then Spiele asked him to wear soft sandals
like Victor, but he preferred his stiff boots. However, he procured hooks which kept the foot
in place and allowed him to enjoy the advantage of the leather surface. Now she was worried
lest the hooks should prove a dangerous obstacle in jumping off the wheel. She consulted Victor;
but he only said, it depended.

One Sunday, however, on their way home, they met a drunken farm-hand, also on a wheel. Höflinger
saw from a distance that the man took up the whole width of the road and could not control
his machine. He gave a warning blast of his horn. Spiele tinkled merrily. Victor also tooted
a warning. All three kept to the right. For a moment it seemed as if an accident could be avoided.
But suddenly, as though he had been struck a blow from the back, the brute swerved to the other
side of the road. He could not help himself and had to ride straight into Höflinger's wheel:
it was his fate. Höflinger wanted to jump quickly, but could not get out of the hooks as rapidly
as he would, and lost control of his wheel before the other reached him. Spiele was frightened
and rode between him and the rustic; her heart urged her to get near her husband. It was the
worst move she could make; she prevented him from dodging in time. The impact was terrible.
With bent head and shoulders drawn in, the farm-hand had shot at Höflinger's wheel as if lost
in deep thought. The collision threw him over his own bar and the fore-wheel of Höflinger against
the curb, where he lay like a sack. Höflinger bent aside toward Spiele's wheel. The woman,
the man, their wheels and that of the farm-hand, the bar of which had caught in Höflinger's
spokes, tumbled clattering and crashing into the ditch. Höflinger had stretched out his hand
and balanced himself, breaking the force of the impact. Spiele was buried under her wheel,
but her husband's weight did not fall on her.

There was a moment of suspense, until Pratteler appeared to render assistance. With chalky
pallor he bent over the victims of the mishap and began to work like a fireman. First he grabbed
the machine of the farm-hand, disentangled it and flung it furiously out upon the road with
a clatter which its owner fortunately did not hear. Then he freed Höflinger from his own wheel,
which was still between his knees, and helped him to his feet. Finally he reached Spiele; she
was a bit pale, but unhurt. When he saw her on her feet once more, he began to upbraid Höflinger.
He seemed beside himself and positively dangerous. He showed his teeth, looked Höflinger up
and down and rattled away about crazy hooks, danger to life, and stupidity. Höflinger looked
at him in amazement and was getting ready to keep him at arm's length. Victor had been so much
praised by the tailor's daughter that his conceit had grown; he was firmly convinced that he
was the latest guest, not only in her house, but also in her heart. Undisciplined as his mentality
was, he forgot all standards and limitations of the world and wanted only to blame Höflinger
for the great fright they had experienced. At heart this beastliness was only a means of relaxing
the surplus tension of his nature; but it showed nevertheless what savage beasts were haunting
the queer faithful soul of the Swiss. At last a stray glance of his eyes caught the strange
expression which Spiele's face had assumed at his attack, and he suddenly lapsed into silence,
as if he had been hit on the mouth.

Spiele asked Höflinger with subdued voice whether he had been hurt and inquired about the wheels,
and he bent over them. Spiele's wheel was undamaged. His own well-worn machine had more than
stood the test; he had only to adjust the bar and they could go on; the bump which the frame
had received was only a new mark of honor. Spiele thanked Victor for his assistance. Now she
appeared again in such a halo of prudence and womanly kindness, that he would have liked to
tear his heart in two and place one-half in her hands and throw the other at Höflinger's feet.
At the sympathetic glance of her brown eyes tears came into his own. He turned about sharply
and saw the farm-hand struggle up crab-fashion from the grass. He gave the wheel another kick
and got on his Wanderer. The couple also mounted their wheels. For a time they rode straggling
across the whole width of the road facing the setting sun. Then village strollers came with
the evening coolness, and they resumed their customary order.

The incident did not act on Pratteler's passion either as brake or as sedative. In his queer
head it tended to justify his claims and hopes and to give him the right to support them. Something
had appeared which had to be recognized and to run its course. Victor expected Höflinger to
take cognizance of it; when nothing of the kind was forthcoming, he picked up that half of
his heart which he had thrown at Höflinger's feet and with the other half placed it in the
hands of Spiele. Now she owned his whole heart and openly too--by Jove! The long one knew it,
and she knew it, and both knew that he knew it. That was a delightful chain of ready facts;
and he saw the pretty tailor's daughter dreamily laughing and expectantly groping toward them
with the free hand which did not bear his heart. One day she was bound to reach him; no power
could help her. Then it would be for Höflinger to see how he would resign himself to his loss.

From that day Victor no longer restrained himself. Spiele, too, it seemed to him, was going
more and more out of herself in her husband's presence. She seemed to enjoy their leavetaking.
She began to sing all sorts of taunting little tunes that she remembered from her girlhood,
innocent jolly songs with which the daughters of the middle class while away their time and
keep awake their minds in their long wait for a husband. Sometimes she was simply ravishing.
Once she danced before the men. They had read in the papers about Salome. She sat still a while
and smiled, and Victor knew that she was scheming something. Finally she said: "We can dance
too," and rose from her seat. She picked up her skirt with two fingers of each hand and began
to take some steps. She swayed right and left. She bent back and forth. She laughed with her
fresh lips. When she slightly contracted her lids and sent her glance like a song along the
walls which seemed transformed, or when she fixed her gaze upon the light of the hanging lamp
which made her eyes open like yellow daisies in a star-like halo, Victor said to himself that
no man could tell whither she was looking. But he was sure that all this was done for him and
in the name of the silent love they bore each other. Nor did it strike him as strange that
she never left her corner seat on those evenings when her husband attended the frequent meetings
of the committee and left her alone with Victor. She then quietly busied herself with her sewing
or mended stockings and seemed absorbed and absent-minded. Victor felt depressed and suspected
that his presence disturbed and perhaps irritated her, but they would have to get used to it.
When he could stand the strain no longer, he would drag forth his wheel, light the big lantern
and ride out into the night. But his imagination would conjure up before his inner vision a
glowing picture of what she was doing and how she spent the evening until night came. Sometimes
he experienced a disappointment; for when he returned she was sitting at the table with Höflinger,
perhaps laughing. That left a sting in his heart and would not let him sleep.

Of the strike he learned nothing more. He presumed that the big scheme was running its course,
and his sharpened eye noticed in the noon hour the spirit that walked about among the steel
monsters. But though he had joined the organization and had made the personal acquaintance
of some unionists and social democrats the secret was so well kept by the executive committee
that no knowledge which was not voluntarily communicated, reached the main body. Least known
to him was the day and hour of the strike. The longer ignorance lasted, the higher rose expectation
and the larger proportions did the act of deliverance assume which was dawning on the horizon
of the near future. On the other hand, this uncertainty of the inevitable contributed toward
increasing and deepening the feeling of solidarity. The herd strengthened the individual's
heartbeat, and the individual unconsciously sought the pulse of the mass in order to raise
its own rhythm. Even the most rebellious spirits suddenly experienced the change from individual
to joint experience, and into the intercourse of the several members entered a note of respect
and sympathy in face of the common foe and the common risk. To those spirits belonged Pratteler.
He still obstinately distrusted the leaders, and in his heart did not discard the motto: Everything
is humbug. They made themselves so big with their "if" and "but," and they made you wait for
them in order to appear necessary and powerful. But the individual man interested Victor keenly.
Those days did far more toward developing his social soul than he himself suspected. His nose
accustomed itself to the smell of the herd; to use a hunter's term, he had almost acquired
the scent. He followed, though perhaps unwillingly, the physical atmosphere of this general
body, in which he recognized his new master and lord. As its latest member he was still more
by instinct than by reason plunged in primitive ideas of the possibilities of personal action
and freedom of decision. His highly-colored speech had drawn a small crowd of super-revolutionists
about him, childish, genuine groundlings, who wanted to be keener than the blade of which they
were only the handle. Some ignorant old fellows also belonged to the clique and contributed
no little to raise Victor's self-esteem. Once in a while the more experienced soldiers in the
army indulgently looked over their shoulders, and Victor heard perhaps a kindly laugh; but
that did not disturb him. The leaders had no time to bother about the tail; after all it is
there only for the purpose of wagging.

In those days Spiele was again fighting her husband. She complained that he was not proposing
to give her a discount at the future consumers' store and asked Victor whether he, too, would
let her come off so badly in the big scheme. Then there was some talk about their leaving the
cottage with the garden and moving into the workingmen's colony. He was ignorant of any reasons
for the plan, but agreed with Spiele that their home was far more attractive and that anybody
should be glad not to have to live in the colony. The matter was very simple. Being manager
of the food centre, Höflinger wanted to live in the same building in which it was to be opened.
Since he had no family to look out for, he at least wished to devote himself thoroughly to
the cause. But Spiele had not yet abandoned hope of that family, nor could Höflinger persuade
her to his viewpoint. So the question was for a long time undecided, while the relation of
the couple assumed a critical intensity, which they both felt as a sort of sweet bitterness,
with the sweet or the bitter element alternately prevailing. Sometimes Spiele wept; then again
she indulged in all sorts of tricks that she had learned from her father and his apprentices.
She lost money and found it in Victor's pocket, which gave her an opportunity to appeal to
his conscience. She could read fortunes in the cards and make spirits rap at her table. She
promised Victor a good wife, and added cheerily: "One like me." She also promised him four
healthy and handsome children, and at the prophesy lapsed at once into a melancholy mood.

Victor would have liked, with his glowing gaze, to hide her in a burning bush, so that nobody
else could approach her. One evening he forgot himself in Höflinger's presence. Spiele had
teased him about his red necktie, which began to look black with wear; she asked whether he
would always stay a Garibaldi and offered to sew a new one for him, if he would let her remove
the old. He agreed; nobody noticed the glow and the tension in his eyes. When she had unfastened
the little red rag and was running away with it laughing, he quickly grabbed her hand and caught
it between his crooked horse-teeth. Spiele cried out and tore herself away. Victor laughed
with embarrassment and excitement. Höflinger looked up startled. The tailor's daughter seemed
angry and scolded Victor; but her scolding was music to his ears. When he finally noticed the
husband's cold and disapproving glare, he showed his teeth again and remarked aggressively:
"People ought to be able to take a joke!" Then he struck the table with his fist and went out
quickly.

After that incident Höflinger walked up and down in silence and listened to Spiele, who set
about removing a double veil from his eyes. She told him what a distant and strange husband
he was, his head filled with the business of other people and his heart never heeding the need
and the loneliness of his wife. Absorbed by other interests, he seemed to leave it to her whether
she should continue to hope for the fulfillment of her longing, or like him, however young
in years, passively give up all hope. She told him what wrong he was directly committing against
himself and her, by renouncing what after all, as he well knew, the law of nature would not
force her to forego for a long time to come. She left him no room for doubt, that she was going
by all means within her power to avoid being cheated out of happiness by his attitude. A large,
extensive organization was no compensation for the absence of a single innocent little being,
which was perhaps denied them on account of his interest in the other. Not to lose a single
trump, she pointed to the fiery young boarder as an example of a real lover. She took Höflinger
by the nose and made him follow all the successive steps in the development of her heart's
cause. She did not even fail to show him that a good willing boy was suffering for a wife's
faithfulness toward her absent husband, who unsuspectingly and self-complacently was busy with
alien things. She poured such a storm of good arguments and sound object-lessons upon the absorbed
mind of her partner, that she really succeeded in arresting his attention.

Höflinger finally stopped and looked at her in astonishment. He had never noticed that his
wife had grown from a little girl into a mature woman. It was the first time that he heard
her talk like that, and her speech rang so true that one could not help agreeing with her in
general. This was what that man of reality enjoyed most in all her argumentation. His eyes
grew clearer and clearer before her. What her dances and her tricks had not accomplished, was
achieved by this violent thunderstorm. When he had got over his first amazement, he began to
rejoice in every fibre of his being; and his face showed a youthful and animated glow which
pleased her so much that she allowed the storm to pass by and to be followed by a partial rainbow.
Finally her magnetism so overpowered him, that in spite of the jealousy which gnawed and stung,
as she had desired it should, he began to laugh. His. eyes were so kindly and so enterprising,
that she joined in his laughter, and morning and night were turned into another wedding-day.
Victor had been watching behind a tree to see whether Höflinger would abuse his wife for the
incident of the necktie. He witnessed a scene which filled him with burning misery from head
to foot. He saw Spiele wrestling with her husband, laughing and brushing her hair from her
forehead and apparently running away from him. He firmly believed that she really feared him
and suffered his amorous mood only because she could not help herself. At the end he heard
Höflinger whistle a tune, while he was locking the door of the cottage and bolting the sitting-room,
and saw him, candle in hand, follow his wife to her bedroom. Victor decided that this evening
cried for revenge in his own and in Spiele's name.

One day a thunderbolt came down before his eyes. Höflinger took leave for three days and Victor
was to remain alone with the idol and the wife. The long one had to take this trip in the interest
of the workingmen's consumers' league which was now about to be realized. Pratteler spent half
of each night on his wheel. He ate nothing and drank much. In those days he sought the midday
rest with the other laborers and lay down where Höflinger was wont to take his nap. Having
to pay so much more attention to the machine used up his nervous energy, already much tried,
and wore him out. He wanted to sleep, but the wild and foolish notion that he might take the
place of Höflinger at night, too, banished the rest he craved. Then he jumped up and went about
in the courts and between the steel monsters, wherever the spirit of revolt was brooding and
whispering into his ears wild and extravagant words. He breathed more freely when the siren
called the herd to work. His task of serving the idol filled him with a dull indifferent hatred;
he despised the monster. Sometimes he gave vent to all the bitterness and the scorn his breast
was harboring by spitting into the revolving shining face. But that had not the slightest effect.
The idol continued to screech and wheeze, and its claw greedily grabbed the next iron bar.
Then Victor turned away weary and sad at heart, and mounted the iron staircase to attend to
the oiling.

At noon Spiele came as usual through the dark gate, jumped off her wheel in her light-footed
way and approached his place with a nod. Recently she was inclined to be late and no longer
waited in the crowd. The first day, eager to cut short the ceremony of taking the lunch-pail
from her, he managed to bump his head against hers. She looked straight at him, surprised at
his haste. He trembled like a wall hit by a shot, and did not know whether to fall backward,
or forward into her arms. Both blushed. He exclaimed with embarrassment: "Hopla!" and set the
pail down. She scolded him for neglecting his lunch, while his trembling fingers rolled a cigarette
and he lapsed into a moody silence. The next day he let her do everything herself. He ate a
little, while she explained to him that it was unhealthy for him to be so much on his wheel.
Besides, he should raise his handle-bar, for it could not be good for a stomach to float like
a cloud over the ground. It also shocked the nervous system too violently, when the arms alone
bore the weight of the body, as was natural when the wheel leaped and bumped over the uneven
roadbed. Submissively and somewhat cautiously he replied that she might be right. That evening
he obediently drew up the handle-bar by the width of a hand, and lowered the saddle. It was
hard for him; but since she was solicitous about his health, there was some consolation in
it. He thought she would not care, if she did not love him a little.

When he returned late from a tavern, his passion got the better of him. He went to the door
of the sitting-room  which led to the bedroom, and firmly pressed down the latch--not softly,
but as if he had a right to enter. But the door was bolted. He rapped. Nothing moved; the door
remained locked. With aching limbs he went up the stairs to his garret-room; he felt as if
smoke were rising from his lungs and his very vitals were on fire. A tempest of thoughts was
brewing in his head. In the morning he drank his coffee, pale and tortured. Spiele was invisible.
It was not her habit to be present; she always retired once more after serving the men's breakfast
and before Victor appeared. But that morning he considered it a special measure upon which
she had decided--or a proof of guilt. He had all the day to decide which of the two it was.
At noon he asked Spiele incidentally, whether Höflinger were sure to return that night and
observed her from the corner of his eyes. She said "yes" in a rather absent-minded manner,
which he at once interpreted as secret sharing of his impatience. Heaving a deep breath he
opened all doors to the remotest back gate of his soul to give free entrance to any idea that
would promise help. After work he was busy with the idol a few minutes longer, as though he
had to put something in order. In reality he loosened some screws and unfastened a coupling.
Then he threw himself once more upon his wheel. He did not return for supper. He sat in the
inn down in the valley and only started for the house when he was sure that Höflinger had returned
and the couple had retired.

The next morning at breakfast Höflinger scanned him with a searching glance. "Did everything
go well with the saw?" he asked with concern. "Why should it not!" replied Victor sulkily and
rose; the last mouthful stuck in his throat. When he rode to the works beside him, Höflinger
noticed the change in his wheel and nodded approvingly: "You are right to obey my wife's suggestion,
Pratteler," said he, and added: "You should also give up your extravagant speeding and pedaling
for hours at a stretch." Victor was silent. Later other workingmen joined them and greeted
Höflinger eagerly. But he was no more communicative than at other times.

They entered the machine-shop. Before the gable-wall in the background towered the idol. Its
immense disk shone treacherously in the morning light. Victor's heart was beating. The siren
howled. The belting-gear cracked and rolled up. The first shot rang out behind the halls. Höflinger
pressed down the lever and let the idol run. It rang the bell and whistled; but there was a
crunching noise. Höflinger listened and hastily threw back the lever; the disk made a sweeping
movement. Silently he went up to the iron gallery. After a moment which seemed an hour to Victor,
he came down again. His face was grave; his eyes sought Victor. "Did you do anything to the
machine, Pratteler?" asked he with troubled mien. "Is something wrong?" replied Victor much
too loud and angry at the ring of his voice. "It ran well until work was over last night. After
that I was not near it." Höflinger cleared his throat. "Then it is sabotage," said he dejectedly.
"But it is senseless and murderous sabotage. If I had not heard that something was wrong, we
two should not be going about much longer." He went to the tool box and again ascended the gallery.

Victor did not dare to follow him until he called. They both repaired the damage done. Victor's
hands were cold as ice in all the heat that rose from the half-glowing iron blocks. At this
moment he felt a violent hatred of Höflinger and came near throwing him from the gallery. Höflinger
said only that the perpetrator would be expelled from the organization as soon as discovered.
That word sounded like a judgment to Victor's ears. It gripped and shocked him in a depth of
consciousness he had not yet realized. He began to tremble. He stood unknowingly under the
jurisdiction of the power called social morality, and his highflown democratic notions were
already so strongly modified, that he came near confessing his guilt to Höflinger. Yet the
impulse only intensified his hatred of the man who by his laconic and deeply ordered life deprived
him of one freedom after another, until it became an unendurable torture. He had lost his heart
to Spiele's charm over which the enemy had unlimited mastery. Now his self-will, too, was being
shattered and pushed under the feet of the marching multitude. Something had to happen to give
the world breathing-space. A master shot should explode that whole damnable scheme in which
his life was about to be sunk and buried.

A week after that incident in the short nine o'clock pause Höflinger remarked casually, that
Spiele would no longer bring them their lunch, and they would have to ride home. He gave no
reason for this decision, and, when Victor glanced at him, did not look as if he were inclined
to be questioned. Victor said it was all right, and stared dismally before him. Suddenly he
took his cup and angrily spilled the coffee on the floor. He was convinced that Höflinger had
learned of the incidents of the first noon and the second night of his absence, and that the
change was due to them. So he was again to be punished. Höflinger had raised his brows in surprise:
"Why do you spill that coffee?" "Because I don't like it--d--it!" Victor got up breathing fast
and stepped aside. Beside him glistened the cold disk of the saw; he looked wrathfully at the
claw which had stopped about to grab a bar. What a tyrant the long one was! He found out everything;
he got out everything from that helpless woman. He surely found it annoying to ride home every
noon, but he wanted Victor to feel his power. He wanted to punish and torture him for his devotion
to Spiele. And such a fellow was in the executive committee and was esteemed by the mass!

Suddenly Victor started, trembled and his eyes shudderingly turned away from the monster's
claw. Whoever came within its grasp was lost, even if his name was Höflinger and he was in
the committee. Then he would cease to tyrannize over his handsome wife and to lead about by
the nose, the ill-advised proletariat. A big humbug would end, and the air would be so much
purer than before. Pratteler sighed, gritted his teeth and rapidly measured the idol with a
look of distrust and hatred. After that, this beast should be disposed of--what a relief that
would be! Two scoundrels silenced. A giddiness came over him. For an instant he had to hold
on to the lever, but the next moment found him once more standing firm and tense in all his
muscles on his well-trained cyclist's legs. The siren called. The bells rang sharply through
the shops. Five minutes later another shot was heard behind the machine halls. Engineers went
watching back and forth. The individual workingman disappeared behind the steel monsters; nothing
was seen but the movement of shining metal limbs. There was a roar, and there a crash. Now
an iron cry echoed through space. An uncanny shrill ringing of bells followed. The walls seemed
to throw back a cruel hard laughter. The gearing cracked and rolled. The belts were swaying.
Cold bluish lightning flashed all over the machines. The idol wheezed and squealed.

Sabotage had recently become more frequent. Several men had been caught, expelled from the
organization and forced to leave the iron-works. If they refused, they were given up to the
authorities. Höflinger was the most bitter foe of those malefactors. One day he again discovered
that screws had been loosened and that some parts of the idol were even missing. In this way
the black sheep among the workingmen were trying to take revenge. In the lower strata of the
force there was a tendency toward disorganization. A group of secret anarchists and born marauders
hoped to bring about general disorder during the strike and to have an occasion either to derive
some personal profit or to destroy the whole plant. Though Victor did not belong to them and
by his inborn middle-class honesty was separated from those wild rebels, still there was a
bridge leading from the shores of youthful discontent and ignorance to the camp of those law-breakers,
and there was always intercourse through the medium of deserters and newsmongers. Victor realized
the danger of sabotage, but he could not grow indignant about it, because he really wished
injury to the capitalists.

Höflinger was of course not ignorant of his ideas. Victor had a bad conscience, though this
time he was innocent. He suspected that Höflinger distrusted him and anticipated that he would
make use of this opportunity to frame a case against him. He spent a half day full of hatred
and torture in helping him to repair the damage, while the engineers walked about excitedly.
That clay there was not a moment when Victor did not wish the death of Höflinger and in his
mind was menace to his life. Pain gnawed at his very vitals. He felt as if his lungs were compressed
in iron hoops. From time to time his teeth chattered. Sometimes he had forcibly to collect
his senses and was surprised that he was still there and alive. The whole shop moved about
him like a wild and treacherous dream-world. Nothing was real in it but his boundless love
and his unendurable hate. His bad conscience suggested ever new combinations and was eagerly
active to realize the most improbable notions and fancies. If he had still believed in hell,
he would have imagined in those moments of self-absorption that he was in the midst of it.
So the time had come when the seed of despair which he had so sadly and seriously tended in
his soul, was quickened.

On a Saturday evening, when he paid his board, Höflinger told him that they had decided not
to keep boarders any longer. The announcement was made in a kindly and friendly manner: but
Victor listened with secret malice. He grew pale and gave Höflinger a hostile stare. Höflinger
added that he regretted, that he had liked him, but that everybody had to arrange his life
according to his own needs. These were more good words than Victor had ever heard from him,
and his suspicion that the recent sabotage and a secret decision of the committee which the
long one had carried through, were back of it, rapidly became a conviction. In his mind he
sneered: "We'll see who leaves the house first." He nodded convulsively and left the room with
stiff knees. He thought by himself: "He wants me to feel his power" and "He denounced me so
as to get me away from his wife. He is a wretched scoundrel one must get rid of!" These three
conclusions henceforth determined his thoughts and the direction of his speculations. Before
his eyes the claw of the idol continually appeared, rising from the ground and grabbing its
prey. Between the wife and the idol stood nothing but the doomed victim. Everything else had
vanished like smaller beasts at the tiger's coming. The world had become strangely simplified.

Victor sat seriously brooding on the first step of the stairs to the gallery and stared before
him with eyes, sunken and circled with dark rings. A workingman passed and remarked laughing:
"Get your hair cut, Garibaldi." He looked after him wondering what he meant. Höflinger stepped
near. The siren shrieked. The electrical bells yelled through the shops. Softly the gearing
began to move. The steel beasts came to life again. The first thrill went through the halls.
Hundreds of shining metal limbs were lifted high, slender, irresistible, triumphant. Elbows
and fists appeared and disappeared. A low, mocking crackle, tinkle and knocking followed the
first movements. A dull roar slowly swallowed it all. The belts were whizzing and swaying.
Once more the machines were masters.

Höflinger looked surprised at Victor who was still sitting on the iron step, his fists on his
knees. "Well, Pratteler, are you going to look on today?" he asked with a halfhearted smile.
Victor started. With a bewildered look he braced up, threw back his shoulders and went to work.
The strike committee had sent guards and watchmen to prevent sabotage and everything seemed
to be quiet. Höflinger had just received their report and was pleased. "We have quietly put
a stop to the tricks of those good-for-nothings," said he to Victor. "The machines run as smoothly
as ever." The blood mounted to Victor's face. He had only heard the word "good-for-nothing"
and mechanically interpreted its meaning; he was sadly experienced in that sort of thing. He
felt sneered at and betrayed all around, and his temper rising, conjured the spirit of revenge.
Again before his inner vision he saw the claw rise from the ground; he waited with bent head
until it really appeared. Then with three hurried steps he approached Höflinger. Looking aside
as if by accident, he pushed against the claw and the revolving disk, and waited, blind with
excitement, to see what would happen. Six--eight--twelve heartbeats: finally, hearing no outcry,
he looked around. One hand on the railing of the stairs, Höflinger stood, his eyes turned toward
him and scanning him with a troubled look, as the other day on the street. "Something seems
to be wrong behind there after all," cried Victor his voice pitched too high and shaking with
fear. "They are standing about a machine and consulting." That was true. Höflinger looked in
that direction. He resumed his reticent mien and bit his lip. Then he went up the iron stairs
to the gallery and staid a long time.

With senseless regularity, without soul or breath, the iron sphinxes turned their hardened
limbs. They stretched up their shining fists and chased the connecting-shafts until they whined
and moaned. Cold and haughty glowed the metal. The belts were flying without purpose or restraint.
Periodically an explosion was heard. The idol stood in the steady fire of the torrent of sparks
that shot from between its teeth. The iron screamed. Pale and unreal the day looked in through
the high windows. Where a sunbeam struck, it was felt as a burning torture. Through the middle
aisle three older workingmen came down with measured steps. Behind every machine heads bobbed
up to look after them. Then the engineers approached and the heads vanished. Victor tended
the idol and waited for Höflinger.

When he came down the stairs, Pratteler counted his steps and listened to their sound. He thought
he noticed that Höflinger was afraid. That filled him with radiant joy and with faith in his
good conscience. The victim knew that it was doomed. Everything seemed to clear of itself.
In the distance floated and beckoned the future of Spiele: that was the prize. His imagination
painted glowing pictures of her life and of her heaven. His love became distorted like a cloud
image and the adored form of his sweetheart went under in the wild conflagration. He hoped
to see an angel rise from the flames; but at best it was a charred corpse that awaited him.

Like a monster horse the idol neighed. Its swinging disk rang and roared. Sparks flew about.
That meant that the block was sawed through and the claw would soon appear--empty. Höflinger
was just stepping to the floor. Pratteler hurried to him and grabbed his arm. "Come--look--quick--"
cried he, hoarse with excitement, and tried to drag him along. Höflinger beat down his hand
and stepped back. He looked at him more attentively. Victor threw himself upon him; carried
away by his passion he began to pummel and shake and drag him about without any sense. Höflinger's
fist came down on his head, but still without full intent. In Pratteler's soul all the long-suppressed
rage and wretchedness flared up. Like a cat he leaped at the long one's neck, knocked him with
his knees and twisted his feet about his legs to bring him down to the floor. He struck at
his eyes and under his chin and tried to grab his throat. Höflinger was at a disadvantage,
because he did not act in temper and his defense was limited to a few straight but honest blows.
The claw withdrew empty and appeared once more. The disk rang the bell and roared. The carts
approached with their load and returned with it. Victor no longer thought of his prize; he
had only in mind Höflinger's destruction. All means for that purpose seemed justified to him.
He did not even care, that he, too, would be ruined--if only Höflinger were lying dead and
in pieces behind the idol and the world were delivered from him and would be free to work out
its own fate. When he saw that he was most likely to drag Höflinger with him to the claw, he
directed all his efforts to accomplishing that purpose. Now Höflinger grasped the bitter seriousness
of the situation, and his blows became heavier and more direct. But whenever he threw Victor
with a single blow against the railing, the young man jumped upon him or against his legs,
so desperately quick and brutal and clever in his movements, that Höflinger saw the moment
come when he would have to fell him with a last well-aimed blow against the temples. He believed
that the Swiss had become insane.

Nevertheless he had seemed to notice before that the song of the idol was growing weaker, and
now he became fully conscious of it. Even Victor in his God-forsaken mood became aware of it.
He struggled a while against this knowledge and continued to fight, but he was startled by
it and his attacks seemed to be aimed distractedly. The disk whistled and started to ring the
bells. As if struck in his heart, Victor's hands dropped from Höflinger, and he turned around
at the idol. He looked about and about and was sobered. Behind the halls another explosion
was heard. The gearings dragged and cracked. Then the machinery stopped. Victor collected his
thoughts. It was far from closing-hour, only the middle of the afternoon. His eyes sought Höflinger
as if to question him, but strayed aside bewildered and turned to the sunbeams and their glaring
torture. The siren cried. It howled. It blew a triumphant blast. It played tricks like the
sirens of a merry-go-round or shoot-the-chutes. Finally it stopped on one note which it repeated
with full force, half a minute at the time, again and again and always at the same pitch. The
disk shone and shook treacherously. Behind all the machines the forms of workingmen rose. Victor
was amazed at the number of men that these halls had held. Again he looked at the long one,
who contemplated him half pitifully, half angrily. He braved that look for a second; then he
east his eyes down before the long feet of Höflinger and awaited his judgment. His heart was
beating in brief, timid beats. He could have been directly led to his death without uttering
a word or a plea.

Höflinger cleared his throat. "What is the matter with you, Pratteler? Is that the way a union
member treats a comrade?" His voice trembled with suppressed emotion. Victor listened. His
false repose was not equal to this note. At mention of the organization a multitude of possibilities
overwhelmed him. He thought that Höflinger knew everything, and when he saw him retain his
composure he dropped his last claim and looked up to this specimen of human greatness that
had grown out of greater depths and had been formed by higher laws than he suspected.

Victor sighed deeply and raised his dim eyes to Höflinger. "Forgive me, I was crazy," said
he shaking his head. "I understand nothing of all this. If you can prevent it, don't have me
expelled from the organization. Do you hear? If you want, I will immediately take my leave."

Höflinger looked at him astonished. "Do you care at all for the union?" he asked. "I don't
understand you. Why should you be expelled? Besides, even if I wanted it, I should not have
the power to do it."

Victor's head dropped; suddenly he gave himself up. "It was I who damaged the machine the first
time. But not after that. Now you will have to tell on me, Höflinger. Did you not know it?
Why am I to leave your house?"

Höflinger opened his eyes wide, as if he could not take in enough knowledge of this peculiar
fellow. "Because my wife is about to become a mother and wants to be alone with--it, and with
me," he replied with tension. "Why did you ask?"

"Oh, I thought it was from revenge--or something." Victor passed his trembling hands over his
brow and his hair. "It is all humbug," he added with bitterness.

Slowly Höflinger began to comprehend. "The individual is a humbug, Pratteler," he added with
precision and knowingly nodded at him.

"And yet you want to be a father," remarked Victor. "Your child will be nothing better."

Höflinger grabbed his coat; he saw that all were getting ready and collecting in groups. "A
man like me becomes not a father, but a brother, when his wife gives birth to children," he
remarked as if to change the subject. "But why did you want to attack me? Did I offend you
without knowing?"

Victor reddened violently and shook his head. "I can't tell you," he replied and grabbed his coat.

A workingman came running up the aisle. "Strike!" he called from far and swung his hat. "Strike,
Höflinger!" The long one nodded; it did not seem to surprise him. For him particularly it meant
that he would open the food centre and realize his ideal. Victor forgot his coat when he heard
the word "strike." Cold and hot shivers ran over him. Now he stood there as a little modest
workingman in the great event which the others had prepared. When his eyes took in the situation,
he recognized the excellence of the organization and the value of the waiting period which
had preceded this date. His coat in hand, he quietly walked behind the two workingmen and his
head was humming with thoughts that were neither foolish nor jealous.

On both sides and all about the iron beasts were lying, lurking immovable, their merciless
limbs lazily stretched. In their beautiful brutal bodies a sustained glow seemed to flicker.
As at all times the vicious graceful forms lay there and shone with a lustful light. But no
living brain conceived a creative thought, no eye was animated by a soul. Cold, heartless,
brainless beasts filled the halls where they reigned. The little long-necked man with the bushy
head and the yellow wheelman's sandals brought to contrast with them much solid worth, and
surpassed them in real beauty. For those sovereigns could all be hacked to pieces, and nothing
was lost; they could be replaced. But if Victor Pratteler by some sad accident lost his life,
the world would have been poorer in just so much love, good will, sincere remorse, faith, humility
and honesty. Before he left the hall, he threw another glance at the idol, and wondered at
himself. For the idol was no longer a symbol to him; he could contemplate it quietly and objectively.
A feeling of shyness came over him at the memory of the last half hour; but the distress which
he had experienced was so great and his deliverance so simple and comprehensible to his soul,
that the power of the idol had melted before it. The siren continued to howl. The strikers
had fastened the valve with a rope, locked the furnace room and thrown the keys in through
the window, so they could not be reproached with having them. After an hour the fire department
silenced its voice. In the meantime a stream of workingmen was surging toward the meeting-hall.

With the same quiet and impersonally gentle manner in which he had taken leave of the idol,
Victor approached Spiele, when he returned with Höflinger. He noticed now with his unveiled
eyes that the tailor's daughter was by no means as pretty as he had always believed. There
were wrinkles about her nose from her habit of drawing it up so often. She also had some crowsfeet
about the eyes. It could not be denied that these eyes were of a beautiful brown in the twilight,
but when you looked at them in full light, there was plenty of green in them. Her hands were
rather hardened by work and quite callous on the inside from wielding broom and garden tools.
So Victor was consoled for her loss, and withdrew his head from the noose. In the evening the
long one made a joke. "Think of it, Spiele, Pratteler did not want to leave us. I believe he
had some scruples about leaving you alone with me."

Spiele turned over a baby garment which she was sewing. "Well, it is not always a pleasure
to be alone with you!" she replied with a laugh. "But I am going to try it once more."

