So saying, the King took from a great iron chest set against the wall enormous packets of paper
scribbled over with very fine writing. Upon one was written, Baradas, upon another, D'Hautefort,
upon a third, La Fayette, and finally, Cinq-Mars.  He stopped at the latter, and continued:

"See how many times you have deceived me!  These are the continual faults of which I have myself
kept a register during the two years I have known you; I have written out our conversations
day by day.  Sit down."

Cinq-Mars obeyed with a sigh, and had the patience for two long hours to listen to a summary
of what his master had had the patience to write during the course of two years.  He yawned
many times during the reading, as no doubt we should all do, were it needful to report this
dialogue, which was found in perfect order, with his will, at the death of the King.  We shall
only say that he finished thus:

"In fine, hear what you did on the seventh of December, three days ago. I was speaking to you
of the flight of the hawk, and of the knowledge of hunting, in which you are deficient.  I
said to you, on the authority of La Chasse Royale, a work of King Charles IX, that after the
hunter has accustomed his dog to follow a beast, he must consider him as of himself desirous
of returning to the wood, and the dog must not be rebuked or struck in order to make him follow
the track well; and that in order to teach a dog to set well, creatures that are not game must
not be allowed to pass or run, nor must any scents be missed, without putting his nose to them.

"Hear what you replied to me (and in a tone of ill-humor--mind that!) 'Ma foi!  Sire, give
me rather regiments to conduct than birds and dogs.  I am sure that people would laugh at you
and me if they knew how we occupy ourselves.'  And on the eighth--wait, yes, on the eighth--while
we were singing vespers together in my chambers, you threw your book angrily into the fire,
which was an impiety; and afterward you told me that you had let it drop--a sin, a mortal sin.
See, I have written below, lie, underlined.  People never deceive me, I assure you."

"But, Sire--"

"Wait a moment!  wait a moment!  In the evening you told me the Cardinal had burned a man unjustly,
and out of personal hatred."

"And I repeat it, and maintain it, and will prove it, Sire.  It is the greatest crime of all
of that man whom you hesitate to disgrace, and who renders you unhappy.  I myself saw all,
heard, all, at Loudun.  Urbain Grandier was assassinated, rather than tried.  Hold, Sire, since
you have there all those memoranda in your own hand, merely reperuse the proofs which I then
gave you of it."

Louis, seeking the page indicated, and going back to the journey from Perpignan to Paris, read
the whole narrative with attention, exclaiming:

"What horrors!  How is it that I have forgotten all this?  This man fascinates me; that's certain.
You are my true friend, Cinq-Mars.  What horrors!  My reign will be stained by them.  What!
he prevented the letters of all the nobility and notables of the district from reaching me!
Burn, burn alive!  without proofs!  for revenge!  A man, a people have invoked my name in vain;
a family curses me!  Oh, how unhappy are kings!"

And the Prince, as he concluded, threw aside his papers and wept.

"Ah, Sire, those are blessed tears that you weep!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, with sincere admiration.
"Would that all France were here with me!  She would be astonished at this spectacle, and would
scarcely believe it."

"Astonished!  France, then, does not know me?"

"No, Sire," said D'Effiat, frankly; "no one knows you.  And I myself, with the rest of the
world, at times accuse you of coldness and indifference."

"Of coldness, when I am dying with sorrow!  Of coldness, when I have immolated myself to their
interests!  Ungrateful nation!  I have sacrificed all to it, even pride, even the happiness
of guiding it myself, because I feared on its account for my fluctuating life.  I have given
my sceptre to be borne by a man I hate, because I believed his hand to be stronger than my
own.  I have endured the ill he has done to myself, thinking that he did good to my people.
I have hidden my own tears to dry theirs; and I see that my sacrifice has been even greater
than I thought it, for they have not perceived it.  They have believed me incapable because
I was kind, and without power because I mistrusted my own.  But, no matter!  God sees and knows
me!"

"Ah, Sire, show yourself to France such as you are; reassume your usurped power.  France will
do for your love what she would never do from fear. Return to life, and reascend the throne."

"No, no; my life is well-nigh finished, my dear friend.  I am no longer capable of the labor
of supreme command.'"

"Ah, Sire, this persuasion alone destroys  your vigor. It is time that men should cease to
confound power with crime, and call this union genius. Let your voice be heard proclaiming
to the world that the reign of virtue is about to begin with your own; and hence forth those
enemies whom vice has so much difficulty in suppressing will fall before a word uttered from
your heart.  No one has as yet calculated all that the good faith of a king of France may do
for his people--that people who are drawn so instantaneously to ward all that is good and beautiful,
by their imagination and warmth of soul, and who are always ready with every kind of devotion.
The King, your father, led us with a smile.  What would not one of your tears do?"

During this address the King, very much surprised, frequently reddened, hemmed, and gave signs
of great embarrassment, as always happened when any attempt was made to bring him to a decision.
He also felt the approach of a conversation of too high an order, which the timidity of his
soul forbade him to venture upon; and repeatedly putting his hand to his chest, knitting his
brows as if suffering violent pain, he endeavored to relieve himself by the apparent attack
of illness from the embarrassment of answering.  But, either from passion, or from a resolution
to strike the crowning blow, Cinq-Mars went on calmly and with a solemnity that awed Louis,
who, forced into his last intrenchments, at length said:

"But, Cinq-Mars, how can I rid myself of a minister who for eighteen years past has surrounded
me with his creatures?"

"He is not so very powerful," replied the grand ecuyer; "and his friends will be his most sure
enemies if you but make a sign of your head.  The ancient league of the princes of peace still
exists, Sire, and it is only the respect due to the choice of your Majesty that prevents it
from manifesting itself."

"Ah, mon Dieu!  thou mayst tell them not to stop on my account.  I would not restrain them;
they surely do not accuse me of being a Cardinalist. If my brother will give me the means of
replacing Richelieu, I will adopt them with all my heart."

"I believe, Sire, that he will to-day speak to you of Monsieur le Duc de Bouillon.  All the
Royalists demand him."

"I don't dislike him," said the King, arranging his pillows; "I don't dislike him at all, although
he is somewhat factious.  We are relatives. Knowest thou, chez ami"--and he placed on this
favorite expression more emphasis than usual--"knowest thou that he is descended in direct
line from Saint Louis, by Charlotte de Bourbon, daughter of the Duc de Montpensier?  Knowest
thou that seven princes of the blood royal have been united to his house; and eight daughters
of his family, one of whom was a queen, have been married to princes of the blood royal?  Oh,
I don't at all dislike him!  I have never said so, never!"

"Well, Sire," said Cinq-Mars, with confidence, "Monsieur and he will explain to you during
the hunt how all is prepared, who are the men that may be put in the place of his creatures,
who the field-marshals and the colonels who may be depended upon against Fabert and the Cardinalists
of Perpignan.  You will see that the minister has very few for him.

"The Queen, Monsieur, the nobility, and the parliaments are on our side; and the thing is done
from the moment that your Majesty is not opposed to it.  It has been proposed to get rid of
the Cardinal as the Marechal d'Ancre was got rid of, who deserved it less than he."

"As Concini?"  said the King.  "Oh, no, it must not be.  I positively can not consent to it.
He is a priest and a cardinal.  We shall be excommunicated. But if there be any other means,
I am very willing.

Thou mayest speak of it to thy friends; and I on my side will think of the matter."

The word once spoken, the King gave himself up to his resentment, as if he had satisfied it,
as if the blow were already struck.  Cinq-Mars was vexed to see this, for he feared that his
anger thus vented might not be of long duration.  However, he put faith in his last words,
especially when, after numberless complaints, Louis added:

"And would you believe that though now for two years I have mourned my mother, ever since that
day when he so cruelly mocked me before my whole court by asking for her recall when he knew
she was dead--ever since that day I have been trying in vain to get them to bury her in France
with my fathers?  He has exiled even her ashes."

At this moment Cinq-Mars thought he heard a sound on the staircase; the King reddened.

"Go," he said; "go!  Make haste and prepare for the hunt!  Thou wilt ride next to my carriage.
Go quickly!  I desire it; go!"

And he himself pushed Cinq-Mars toward the entrance by which he had come.

The favorite went out; but his master's anxiety had not escaped him.

He slowly descended, and tried to divine the cause of it in his mind, when he thought he heard
the sound of feet ascending the other staircase. He stopped; they stopped.  He re-ascended;
they seemed to him to descend. He knew that nothing could be seen between the interstices of
the architecture; and he quitted the place, impatient and very uneasy, and determined to remain
at the door of the entrance to see who should come out.  But he had scarcely raised the tapestry
which veiled the entrance to the guardroom than he was surrounded by a crowd of courtiers who
had been awaiting him, and was fain to proceed to the work of issuing the orders connected
with his post, or to receive respects, communications, solicitations, presentations, recommendations,
embraces--to observe that infinitude of relations which surround a favorite, and which require
constant and sustained attention, for any absence of mind might cause great misfortunes.  He
thus almost forgot the trifling circumstance which had made him uneasy, and which he thought
might after all have only been a freak of the imagination.  Giving himself up to the sweets
of a kind of continual apotheosis, he mounted his horse in the great courtyard, attended by
noble pages, and surrounded by brilliant gentlemen.

Monsieur soon arrived, followed by his people; and in an hour the King appeared, pale, languishing,
and supported by four men.  Cinq-Mars, dismounting, assisted him into a kind of small and very
low carriage, called a brouette, and the horses of which, very docile and quiet ones, the King
himself drove.  The prickers on foot at the doors held the dogs in leash; and at the sound
of the horn scores of young nobles mounted, and all set out to the place of meeting.

It was a farm called L'Ormage that the King had fixed upon; and the court, accustomed to his
ways, followed the many roads of the park, while the King slowly followed an isolated path,
having at his side the grand ecuyer and four persons whom he had signed to approach him.

The aspect of this pleasure party was sinister.  The approach of winter had stripped well-nigh
all the leaves from the great oaks in the park, whose dark branches now stood up against a
gray sky, like branches of funereal candelabra.  A light fog seemed to indicate rain; through
the melancholy boughs of the thinned wood the heavy carriages of the court were seen slowly
passing on, filled with women, uniformly dressed in black, and obliged to await the result
of a chase which they did not witness.  The distant hounds gave tongue, and the horn was sometimes
faintly heard like a sigh.  A cold, cutting wind compelled every man to don cloaks, and some
of the women, putting over their faces a veil or mask of black velvet to keep themselves from
the air which the curtains of their carriages did not intercept (for there were no glasses
at that time), seemed to wear what is called a domino.  All was languishing and sad.  The only
relief was that ever and anon groups of young men in the excitement of the chase flew down
the avenue like the wind, cheering on the dogs or sounding their horns.  Then all again became
silent, as after the discharge of fireworks the sky appears darker than before.

In a path, parallel with that followed by the King, were several courtiers enveloped in their
cloaks.  Appearing little intent upon the stag, they rode step for step with the King's brouette,
and never lost sight of him.  They conversed in low tones.

"Excellent!  Fontrailles, excellent!  victory!  The King takes his arm every moment.  See how
he smiles upon him!  See!  Monsieur le Grand dismounts and gets into the brouette by his side.
Come, come, the old fox is done at last!"

"Ah, that's nothing!  Did you not see how the King shook hands with Monsieur?  He's made a
sign to you, Montresor.  Look, Gondi!"

"Look, indeed!  That's very easy to say; but I don't see with my own eyes.  I have only those
of faith, and yours.  Well, what are they doing now?  I wish to Heaven I were not so near-sighted!
Tell me, what are they doing?"

Montresor answered, "The King bends his ear toward the Duc de Bouillon, who is speaking to
him; he speaks again!  he gesticulates!  he does not cease!  Oh, he'll be minister!"

"He will be minister!"  said Fontrailles.

"He will be minister!"  echoed the Comte du Lude.

"Oh, no doubt of it!"  said Montresor.

"I hope he'll give me a regiment, and I'll marry my cousin," cried Olivier d'Entraigues, with
boyish vivacity.

The Abbe de Gondi sneered, and, looking up at the sky, began to sing to a hunting tune.

              "Les etourneaux ont le vent bon,
               Ton ton, ton ton, ton taine, ton ton--"

"I think, gentlemen, you are more short-sighted than I, or else miracles will come to pass
in the year of grace 1642; for Monsieur de Bouillon is no nearer being Prime-Minister, though
the King do embrace him, than I. He has good qualities, but he will not do; his qualities are
not various enough.  However, I have much respect for his great and singularly foolish town
of Sedan, which is a fine shelter in case of need."

Montresor and the rest were too attentive to every gesture of the Prince to answer him; and
they continued:

"See, Monsieur le Grand takes the reins, and is driving."

"Ah, Abbe, your songs will drive me mad!"  said Fontrailles.  "You've got airs ready for every
event in life."

"I will also find you events which shall go to all the airs," answered Gondi.

"Faith, the air of these pleases me!"  said Fontrailles, in an under voice.  "I shall not be
obliged by Monsieur to carry his confounded treaty to Madrid, and I am not sorry for it; it
is a somewhat touchy commission.  The Pyrenees are not so easily passed as may be supposed;
the Cardinal is on the road."

"Ha! Ha!"  cried Montresor.

"Ha!  Ha!"  said Olivier.

"Well, what is the matter with you?  ah, ah!"  asked Gondi.  "What have you discovered that
is so great?"

"Why, the King has again shaken hands with Monsieur.  Thank Heaven, gentlemen, we're rid of
the Cardinal!  The old boar is hunted down.  Who will stick the knife into him?  He must be
thrown into the sea."

"That's too good for him," said Olivier; "he must be tried."

"Certainly," said the Abbe; "and we sha'n't want for charges against an insolent fellow who
has dared to discharge a page, shall we?"  Then, curbing his horse, and letting Olivier and
Montresor pass on, he leaned toward M. du Lude, who was talking with two other serious personages,
and said:

"In truth, I am tempted to let my valet-de-chambre into the secret; never was a conspiracy
treated so lightly.  Great enterprises require mystery. This would be an admirable one if some
trouble were taken with it.  'Tis in itself a finer one than I have ever read of in history.
There is stuff enough in it to upset three kingdoms, if necessary, and the blockheads will
spoil all.  It is really a pity.  I should be very sorry. I've a taste for affairs of this
kind; and in this one in particular I feel a special interest.  There is grandeur about it,
as can not be denied.  Do you not think so, D'Aubijoux, Montmort?"

While he was speaking, several large and heavy carriages, with six and four horses, followed
the same path at two hundred paces behind these gentlemen; the curtains were open on the left
side through which to see the King.  In the first was the Queen; she was alone at the back,
clothed in black and veiled.  On the box was the Marechale d'Effiat; and at the feet of the
Queen was the Princesse Marie.  Seated on one side on a stool, her robe and her feet hung out
of the carriage, and were supported by a gilt step--for, as we have already observed, there
were then no doors to the coaches.  She also tried to see through the trees the movements of
the King, and often leaned back, annoyed by the passing of the Prince-Palatine and his suite.

This northern Prince was sent by the King of Poland, apparently on a political negotiation,
but in reality, to induce the Duchesse de Mantua to espouse the old King Uladislas VI; and
he displayed at the court of France all the luxury of his own, then called at Paris "barbarian
and Scythian," and so far justified these names by strange eastern costumes. The Palatine of
Posnania was very handsome, and wore, in common with the people of his suite, a long, thick
beard.  His head, shaved like that of a Turk, was covered with a furred cap.  He had a short
vest, enriched with diamonds and rubies; his horse was painted red, and amply plumed. He was
attended by a company of Polish guards in red and yellow uniforms, wearing large cloaks with
long sleeves, which hung negligently from the shoulder.  The Polish lords who escorted him
were dressed in gold and silver brocade; and behind their shaved heads floated a single lock
of hair, which gave them an Asiatic and Tartar aspect, as unknown at the court of Louis XIII
as that of the Moscovites.  The women thought all this rather savage and alarming.

Marie de Mantua was importuned with the profound salutations and Oriental elegancies of this
foreigner and his suite.  Whenever he passed before her, he thought himself called upon to
address a compliment to her in broken French, awkwardly made up of a few words about hope and
royalty. She found no other means to rid herself of him than by repeatedly putting her handkerchief
to her nose, and saying aloud to the Queen:

"In truth, Madame, these gentlemen have an odor about them that makes one quite ill."

"It will be desirable to strengthen your nerves and accustom yourself to it," answered Anne
of Austria, somewhat dryly.

Then, fearing she had hurt her feelings, she continued gayly:

"You will become used to them, as we have done; and you know that in respect to odors I am
rather fastidious.  Monsieur Mazarin told me, the other day, that my punishment in purgatory
will consist in breathing ill scents and sleeping in Russian cloth."

Yet the Queen was very grave, and soon subsided into silence.  Burying herself in her carriage,
enveloped in her mantle, and apparently taking no interest in what was passing around her,
she yielded to the motion of the carriage.  Marie, still occupied with the King, talked in
a low voice with the Marechale d'Effiat; each sought to give the other hopes which neither
felt, and sought to deceive each other out of love.

"Madame, I congratulate you; Monsieur le Grand is seated with the King. Never has he been so
highly distinguished," said Marie.

Then she was silent for a long time, and the carriage rolled mournfully over the dead, dry leaves.

"Yes, I see it with joy; the King is so good!"  answered the Marechale.

And she sighed deeply.

A long and sad silence again followed; each looked at the other and mutually found their eyes
full of tears.  They dared not speak again; and Marie, drooping her head, saw nothing but the
brown, damp earth scattered by the wheels.  A melancholy revery occupied her mind; and although
she had before her the spectacle of the first court of Europe at the feet of him she loved,
everything inspired her with fear, and dark presentiments involuntarily agitated her.

Suddenly a horse passed by her like the wind; she raised her eyes, and had just time to see
the features of Cinq-Mars.  He did not look at her; he was pale as a corpse, and his eyes were
hidden under his knitted brows and the shadows of his lowered hat.  She followed him with trembling
eyes; she saw him stop in the midst of the group of cavaliers who preceded the carriages, and
who received him with their hats off.

A moment after he went into the wood with one of them, looking at her from the distance, and
following her with his eyes until the carriage had passed; then he seemed to give the man a
roll of papers, and disappeared. The mist which was falling prevented her from seeing him any
more.  It was, indeed, one of those fogs so frequent on the banks of the Loire.

The sun looked at first like a small blood-red moon, enveloped in a tattered shroud, and within
half an hour was concealed under so thick a cloud that Marie could scarcely distinguish the
foremost horses of the carriage, while the men who passed at the distance of a few paces looked
like grizzly shadows.  This icy vapor turned to a penetrating rain and at the same time a cloud
of fetid odor.  The Queen made the beautiful Princess sit beside her; and they turned toward
Chambord quickly and in silence.  They soon heard the horns recalling the scattered hounds;
the huntsmen passed rapidly by the carriage, seeking their way through the fog, and calling
to each other.  Marie saw only now and then the head of a horse, or a dark body half issuing
from the gloomy vapor of the woods, and tried in vain to distinguish any words.  At length
her heart beat; there was a call for M. de Cinq-Mars.

"The King asks for Monsieur le Grand," was repeated about; "where can Monsieur le Grand Ecuyer
be gone to?"

A voice, passing near, said, "He has just lost himself."

These simple words made her shudder, for her afflicted spirit gave them the most sinister meaning.
The terrible thought pursued her to the chateau and into her apartments, wherein she hastened
to shut herself. She soon heard the noise of the entry of the King and of Monsieur, then, in
the forest, some shots whose flash was unseen.  She in vain looked at the narrow windows; they
seemed covered on the outside with a white cloth that shut out the light.

Meanwhile, at the extremity of the forest, toward Montfrault, there had lost themselves two
cavaliers, wearied with seeking the way to the chateau in the monotonous similarity of the
trees and paths; they were about to stop near a pond, when eight or nine men, springing from
the thickets, rushed upon them, and before they had time to draw, hung to their legs and arms
and to the bridles of their horses in such a manner as to hold them fixed.  At the same time
a hoarse voice cried in the fog:

"Are you Royalists or Cardinalists?  Cry, 'Vive le Grand!' or you are dead men!"

"Scoundrels," answered the first cavalier, trying to open the holsters of his pistols, "I will
have you hanged for abusing my name."

"Dios es el Senor!"  cried the same voice.

All the men immediately released their hold, and ran into the wood; a burst of savage laughter
was heard, and a man approached Cinq-Mars.

"Amigo, do you not recognize me?  'Tis but a joke of Jacques, the Spanish captain."

Fontrailles approached, and said in a low voice to the grand ecuyer:

"Monsieur, this is an enterprising fellow; I would advise you to employ him.  We must neglect
no chance."

"Listen to me," said Jacques de Laubardemont, "and answer at once.  I am not a phrase-maker,
like my father.  I bear in mind that you have done me some good offices; and lately again,
you have been useful to me, as you always are, without knowing it, for I have somewhat repaired
my fortune in your little insurrections.  If you will, I can render you an important service;
I command a few brave men."

"What service?"  asked Cinq-Mars.  "We will see."

"I commence by a piece of information.  This morning while you descended the King's staircase
on one side, Father Joseph ascended the other."

"Ha! this, then, is the secret of his sudden and inexplicable change! Can it be?  A king of
France!  and to allow us to confide all our secrets to him."

"Well! is that all?  Do you say nothing?  You know I have an old account to settle with the
Capuchin."

"What's that to me?"  and he hung down his head, absorbed in a profound revery.

"It matters a great deal to you, since you have only to speak the word, and I will rid you
of him before thirty-six hours from this time, though he is now very near Paris.  We might
even add the Cardinal, if you wish."

"Leave me; I will use no poniards," said Cinq-Mars.

"Ah!  I understand you," replied Jacques.  "You are right; you would prefer our despatching
him with the sword.  This is just.  He is worth it; 'tis a distinction due to him.  It were
undoubtedly more suitable for great lords to take charge of the Cardinal; and that he who despatches
his Eminence should be in a fair way to be a marechal.  For myself, I am not proud; one must
not be proud, whatever one's merit in one's profession.  I must not touch the Cardinal; he's
a morsel for a king!"

"Nor any others," said the grand ecuyer.

"Oh, let us have the Capuchin!"  said Captain Jacques, urgently.

"You are wrong if you refuse this office," said Fontrailles; "such things occur every day.
Vitry began with Concini; and he was made a marechal. You see men extremely well at court who
have killed their enemies with their own hands in the streets of Paris, and you hesitate to
rid yourself of a villain!  Richelieu has his agents; you must have yours.  I can not understand
your scruples."

"Do not torment him," said Jacques, abruptly; "I understand it. I thought as he does when I
was a boy, before reason came.  I would not have killed even a monk; but let me speak to him."
Then, turning toward Cinq-Mars, "Listen: when men conspire, they seek the death or at least
the downfall of some one, eh?"

And he paused.

"Now in that case, we are out with God, and in with the Devil, eh?"

"Secundo, as they say at the Sorbonne; it's no worse when one is damned, to be so for much
than for little, eh?"

"Ergo, it is indifferent whether a thousand or one be killed.  I defy you to answer that."

"Nothing could be better argued, Doctor-dagger," said Fontrailles, half- laughing, "I see you
will be a good travelling-companion.  You shall go with me to Spain if you like."

"I know you are going to take the treaty there," answered Jacques; "and I will guide you through
the Pyrenees by roads unknown to man.  But I shall be horribly vexed to go away without having
wrung the neck of that old he-goat, whom we leave behind, like a knight in the midst of a game
of chess.  Once more Monsieur," he continued with an air of pious earnestness, "if you have
any religion in you, refuse no longer; recollect the words of our theological fathers, Hurtado
de Mendoza and Sanchez, who have proved that a man may secretly kill his enemies, since by
this means he avoids two sins--that of exposing his life, and that of fighting a duel.  It
is in accordance with this grand consolatory principle that I have always acted."

"Go, go!"  said Cinq-Mars, in a voice thick with rage; "I have other things to think of."

"Of what more important?"  said Fontrailles; "this might be a great weight in the balance of
our destinies."

"I am thinking how much the heart of a king weighs in it," said Cinq- Mars.

"You terrify me," replied the gentleman; "we can not go so far as that!"

"Nor do I think what you suppose, Monsieur," continued D'Effiat, in a severe tone.  "I was
merely reflecting how kings complain when a subject betrays them.  Well, war!  war!  civil
war, foreign war, let your fires be kindled! since I hold the match, I will apply it to the
mine.  Perish the State! perish twenty kingdoms, if necessary!  No ordinary calamities suffice
when the King betrays the subject.  Listen to me."

And he took Fontrailles a few steps aside.

"I only charged you to prepare our retreat and succors, in case of abandonment on the part
of the King.  Just now I foresaw this abandonment in his forced manifestation of friendship;
and I decided upon your setting out when he finished his conversation by announcing his departure
for Perpignan.  I feared Narbonne; I now see that he is going there to deliver himself up a
prisoner to the Cardinal.  Go at once.  I add to the letters I have given you the treaty here;
it is in fictitious names, but here is the counterpart, signed by Monsieur, by the Duc de Bouillon,
and by me.  The Count-Duke of Olivares desires nothing further.  There are blanks for the Duc
d'Orleans, which you will fill up as you please.  Go; in a month I shall expect you at Perpignan.
I will have Sedan opened to the seventeen thousand Spaniards from Flanders."

Then, advancing toward the adventurer, who awaited him, he said:

"For you, brave fellow, since you desire to aid me, I charge you with escorting this gentleman
to Madrid; you will be largely recompensed."

Jacques, twisting his moustache, replied:

"Ah, you do not then scorn to employ me!  you exhibit your judgment and taste.  Do you know
that the great Queen Christina of Sweden has asked for me, and wished to have me with her as
her confidential man.  She was brought up to the sound of the cannon by the 'Lion of the North,'
Gustavus Adolphus, her father.  She loves the smell of powder and brave men; but I would not
serve her, because she is a Huguenot, and I have fixed principles, from which I never swerve.
'Par exemple', I swear to you by Saint Jacques to guide Monsieur through the passes of the
Pyrenees to Oleron as surely as through these woods, and to defend him against the Devil, if
need be, as well as your papers, which we will bring you back without blot or tear.  As for
recompense, I want none.  I always find it in the action itself.  Besides, I do not receive
money, for I am a gentleman.  The Laubardemonts are a very ancient and very good family."

"Adieu, then, noble Monsieur," said Cinq-Mars; go!"

After having pressed the hand of Fontrailles, he sighed and disappeared in the wood, on his
return to the chateau of Chambord.

CHAPTER XX

THE READING

Shortly after the events just narrated, at the corner of the Palais- Royal, at a small and
pretty house, numerous carriages were seen to draw up, and a door, reached by three steps,
frequently to open.  The neighbors often came to their windows to complain of the noise made
at so late an hour of the night, despite the fear of robbers; and the patrol often stopped
in surprise, and passed on only when they saw at each carriage ten or twelve footmen, armed
with staves and carrying torches. A young gentleman, followed by three lackeys, entered and
asked for Mademoiselle de Lorme.  He wore a long rapier, ornamented with pink ribbon.  Enormous
bows of the same color on his high-heeled shoes almost entirely concealed his feet, which after
the fashion of the day he turned very much out.  He frequently twisted a small curling moustache,
and before entering combed his small pointed beard.  There was but one exclamation when he
was announced.

"Here he is at last!"  cried a young and rich voice.  "He has made us wait long enough for
him, the dear Desbarreaux.  Come, take a seat! place yourself at this table and read."

The speaker was a woman of about four-and-twenty, tall and handsome, notwithstanding her somewhat
woolly black hair and her dark olive complexion.  There was something masculine in her manner,
which she seemed to derive from her circle, composed entirely of men.  She took their arm unceremoniously,
as she spoke to them, with a freedom which she communicated to them.  Her conversation was
animated rather than joyous. It often excited laughter around her; but it was by dint of intellect
that she created gayety (if we may so express it), for her countenance, impassioned as it was,
seemed incapable of bending into a smile, and her large blue eyes, under her jet-black hair,
gave her at first rather a strange appearance.

Desbarreaux kissed her hand with a gallant and chivalrous air.  He then, talking to her all
the time, walked round the large room, where were assembled nearly thirty persons-some seated
in the large arm chairs, others standing in the vast chimney-place, others conversing in the
embrasures of the windows under the heavy curtains.  Some of them were obscure men, now illustrious;
others illustrious men, now obscure for posterity.  Thus, among the latter, he profoundly saluted
MM. d'Aubijoux, de Brion, de Montmort, and other very brilliant gentlemen, who were there as
judges; tenderly, and with an air of esteem, pressed the hands of MM. Monteruel, de Sirmond,
de Malleville, Baro, Gombauld, and other learned men, almost all called great men in the annals
of the Academy of which they were the founders--itself called sometimes the Academic des Beaux
Esprits, but really the Academic Francaise.  But M. Desbarreaux gave but a mere patronizing
nod to young Corneille, who was talking in a corner with a foreigner, and with a young man
whom he presented to the mistress of the house by the name of M. Poquelin, son of the 'valet-de-chambre
tapissier du roi'.  The foreigner was Milton; the young man was Moliere.

Before the reading expected from the young Sybarite, a great contest arose between him and
other poets and prose writers of the time.  They spoke to each other with great volubility
and animation a language incomprehensible to any one who should suddenly have come among them
without being initiated, eagerly pressing each other's hands with affectionate compliments
and infinite allusions to their works.

"Ah, here you are, illustrious Baro!"  cried the newcomer.  "I have read your last sixain.
Ah, what a sixain!  how full of the gallant and the tendre?"

"What is that you say of the tendre?"  interrupted Marion de Lorme; "have you ever seen that
country?  You stopped at the village of Grand-Esprit, and at that of Jolis-Vers, but you have
been no farther.  If Monsieur le Gouverneur de Notre Dame de la Garde will please to show us
his new chart, I will tell you where you are."

Scudery arose with a vainglorious and pedantic air; and, unrolling upon the table a sort of
geographical chart tied with blue ribbons, he himself showed the lines of red ink which he
had traced upon it.

"This is the finest piece of Clelie," he said.  "This chart is generally found very gallant;
but 'tis merely a slight ebullition of playful wit, to please our little literary cabale. 
However, as there are strange people in the world, it is possible that all who see it may not
have minds sufficiently well turned to understand it.  This is the road which must be followed
to go from Nouvelle-Amitie to Tendre; and observe, gentlemen, that as we say Cumae-on-the-Ionian-Sea,
Cuma;-on-the-Tyrrhean- Sea, we shall say Tendre-sur-Inclination, Tendre-sur-Estime, and Tendre-
sur-Reconnaissance.  We must begin by inhabiting the village of Grand- Coeur, Generosity, Exactitude,
and Petits-Soins."

"Ah!  how very pretty!"  interposed Desbarreaux.  "See the villages marked out; here is Petits-Soins,
Billet-Galant, then Billet-Doux!"

"Oh! 'tis ingenious in the highest degree!"  cried Vaugelas, Colletet, and the rest.

"And observe," continued the author, inflated with this success, "that it is necessary to pass
through Complaisance and Sensibility; and that if we do not take this road, we run the risk
of losing our way to Tiedeur, Oubli, and of falling into the Lake of Indifference."

"Delicious!  delicious!  'gallant au supreme!'" cried the auditors; "never was greater genius!"

"Well, Madame," resumed Scudery, "I now declare it in your house: this work, printed under
my name, is by my sister--she who translated 'Sappho' so agreeably."  And without being asked,
he recited in a declamatory tone verses ending thus:

                    L'Amour est un mal agreable
                    Don't mon coeur ne saurait guerir;
                    Mais quand il serait guerissable,
                    Il est bien plus doux d'en mourir.

"How!  had that Greek so much wit?  I can not believe it," exclaimed Marion de Lorme; "how
superior Mademoiselle de Scudery is to her!  That idea is wholly hers; she must unquestionably
put these charming verses into 'Clelie'.  They will figure well in that Roman history."

"Admirable, perfect!"  cried all the savans; "Horatius, Aruns, and the amiable Porsenna are
such gallant lovers."

They were all bending over the "carte de Tendre," and their fingers crossed in following the
windings of the amorous rivers.  The young Poquelin ventured to raise a timid voice and his
melancholy but acute glance, and said:

"What purpose does this serve?  Is it to give happiness or pleasure? Monsieur seems to me not
singularly happy, and I do not feel very gay."

The only reply he got was a general look of contempt; he consoled himself by meditating, 'Les
Precieuses Ridicules'.

Desbarreaux prepared to read a pious sonnet, which he was penitent for having composed in an
illness; he seemed to be ashamed of having thought for a moment upon God at the sight of his
lightning, and blushed at the weakness.  The mistress of the house stopped him.

"It is not yet time to read your beautiful verses; you would be interrupted.  We expect Monsieur
le Grand Ecuyer and other gentlemen; it would be actual murder to allow a great mind to speak
during this noise and confusion.  But here is a young Englishman who has just come from Italy,
and is on his return to London.  They tell me he has composed a poem--I don't know what; but
he'll repeat some verses of it.  Many of you gentlemen of the Academy know English; and for
the rest he has had the passages he is going to read translated by an ex-secretary of the Duke
of Buckingham, and here are copies in French on this table."

