       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

All who are interested in the theatrical celebrities of past times will do well to read a brief,
indeed, a too brief paper, about DOROTHY JORDAN, written by FITZGERALD MOLLOY, for The English
Illustrated Magazine of this month. The Baron does not remember if THACKERAY touched on the
story of this talented Actress in his Lectures on "The Four Georges;" but the sad finish to
the brilliant career of Mrs. JORDAN could hardly have escaped the great Satirist as being one
instance, among many, illustrating the wise King's advice as to "not putting your trust in
Princes;" "or," for the matter of that, and in fairness, it must be added, "in any child of
man." Poor DOROTHY, or DOLLY JORDAN! but now a Queen of "Puppets," and now--thus, a mere rag-dolly.
Ah, CLARENCE!--"False, fleeting, perjured CLARENCE!" as SHAKSPEARE wrote of that other Duke
in Crookback'd RICHARD's time, for whom the "ifs" and "ands" of life were resolved for ever
in a final "butt."

In the issue for 1891 of that most interesting yearly Annual, The Book-Worm, for which the
Baron, taking it up now and again, blesses ELLIOT STOCK, of Paternoster Row, there is a brief
but interesting account of The Annexed Prayer-Book, which, after some curious chances and changes,
was at last ordered to be photographed page by page, without being removed from the custody
of Black Rod. "By means of an elaborate system of reflecting," the process of photographing
was carried on in the House of Lords. It is satisfactory to all Book-worms to know that so
important a work was not undertaken without even more than the usual amount of reflection.

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HAMLET IN THE HAYMARKET.

With Mr. TREE's impersonation of Hamlet most London playgoers are by this time acquainted,
though not yet familiar. It is a most interesting performance, especially to those who remember
the inauguration of startling new departures by CHARLES FECHTER. The question for every fresh
Hamlet must always be, "How can I differentiate my Hamlet from all previous Hamlets? What can
I do that nobody has as yet thought of doing?" "To be or not to be" Hamlet, "that is the question";
whether 'tis better continuously to suffer the tortures of uncertainty as to what you might
have achieved had you essayed the part, or to take up the study of it, and ceasing to shiver
on the bank, leave off your damnable faces, and plunge in? Mr. TREE has plunged, and is going
on swimmingly.

Mrs. TREE's Ophelia sane, is charming. Her distraught Ophelia is very mad indeed, and her method
in her madness is excellent.

There is a curious monotony in some of the stage-business. Thus, Ophelia pauses in her exit
and comes up quietly behind the absent-minded Prince as if to play bo-peep with him: then,
later on, after his apparently brutal treatment of her, Hamlet returns, and, while he is stooping
and in tears, he kisses her hair and runs away noiselessly as if this also were another part
of the same game. Then again, in the Churchyard, after the scandalous brawling (brought about
by the stupid ignorance of a dunderheaded ecclesiastic, to whose Bishop Laertes ought to have
immediately reported him), Hamlet returns to weep and throw flowers into the grave. Now excellent
"returns" are dear to the managerial heart, and consoling to his pocket, when they attest the
overflowing attendance of "friends in front;" but when "returns" are on the stage, their excellence
may be questioned on the score of monotony. Now, as to the Churchyard Scene, permit me to make
a suggestion:--the Second Gravedigger has been commissioned by the First Gravedigger, with
money down, to go to a neighbouring publican of the name of YAUGHAN, pronounced Yogan or Yawn,--probably
the latter, on account either of his opening his mouth wide, or of his being a sleepy-headed
fellow,--and fetch a stoop of liquor. Now, when all the turmoil is over, the remaining gravedigger
would at once set to work, as in fact he does in this scene at the Haymarket; but here he just
shovels a handful of mould into the grave, and then, without rhyme or reason (with both of
which he has been plentifully supplied by SHAKSPEARE), suddenly away he goes, merely to allow
for the "business" of Hamlet's re-entrance. But why shouldn't there be here, prior to the return
of Hamlet, a re-entrance of the Second Gravedigger, as if coming back from friend YAUGHAN's
with the pot of ale? The sight of this would attract First Gravedigger, and take the thirsty
soul most readily from his work to discuss the refreshment in some shady nook. Then by all
means let Hamlet return to pour out his grief; and on this picture ought the Curtain effectively
descend.

A novel point introduced by Mr. TREE is that his Hamlet, entertaining an affectionate remembrance
of the late YORICK, assumes a friendly and patronising air towards YORICK's successor, a Court
Fool, apparently so youthful that he may still be supposed to be learning his business. So
when His Royal Highness Hamlet has what he considers "a good thing" to say, Mr. TREE places
the novice in jesting near himself, and pointedly speaks at him; as e.g., when, in reply to
the King's inquiry after his health, he tells him that he "eats air promise-crammed," adding,
with a sly look at the Court Fool, "you cannot feed capons so." Whereat the Fool, put into
a difficult position, through his fear of offending the Prince by not laughing, or angering
the King (his employer) by laughing, has to acknowledge the Prince's witticism with a deferential,
but somewhat deprecatory, snigger.

Again, when Hamlet is "going to have a lark" with old Polonius--a proceeding in exquisitely
bad taste by the way--Mr. TREE's Hamlet attracts the young Court Jester's attention to his
forthcoming novelty. Now this time, as the repartee is about as rude a thing as any vulgar
cad of an 'ARRY might have uttered, the professional Jester, who evidently does not owe his
appointment to the Lord Chamberlain's favour, and is exempt from his jurisdiction, grins all
over his countenance, and hops away to explain the jest to some of the courtiers, while Hamlet
himself, to judge by his smiling countenance, is clearly very much pleased with his own performance
in showing a Jester how the fool should be played. And this notion is consistent with the character
of a Prince who takes upon himself to lecture the Actors on their own art. There is no subtler
touch in SHAKSPEARE's irony than his putting these instructions to players in the mouth of
a noble amateur. Of the revival, as a whole, one may truthfully say, Ça donne à penser, and,
indeed, the study of Hamlet is inexhaustible.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITH THEIR EASTER EGGS.

The Emp-r-r of G-rm-ny.--Presentation copy of the light and leading satirical English Paper.

The Cz-r of R-ss-a.--Letter of regret from President C-RN-T.

The Pr-s-d-nt of the Fr-nch R-p-bl-c.--Secretly-obtained copy of proposed treaty for a Quadruple
Alliance.

The K-ng of It-ly.--Scheme for a modus vivendi.

The P-pe.--Duplicate copy of ditto.

Ch-nc-ll-r C-pr-vi.--Permit for leave of absence.

Pr-nce V-n B-sm-rck.--A song, "The Return of the Pilot."

The M-rq-s of S-l-sb-ry.--Date of the General Election.

The Ch-nc-ll-r of the Exch-q-r.--Comments on the Budget.

F-rst L-rd of the Tr-s-ry.--New rules for the game of Golf.

Rt. Hon. W.E. Gl-dst-ne.--Set of Diaries for the next twenty years.

The P-t L-r-te.--The Order of "The Foresters."

The Oxf-rd E-ght.--The Blue Riband of the Thames.

S-r A-g-st-s Dr-r-l-n-s.--A month's well-deserved rest.

N-b-dy in P-rt-c-l-r.--A legacy of £100,000.

Ev-ryb-dy in G-n-r-l.--Rates and taxes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DYNAMITE DRAGON.

  A dragon! Faugh! that foul and writhing Worm
  Seems scarcely worthy of the ancient term
  That fills old myth, and typifies the fight
  'Twixt wrathful evil and the force of right.
  The dragons of the prime, fierce saurian things
  With ogre gorges and with harpy wings,
  Fitted their hour; the haunts that gave them birth,
  The semi-chaos of the early earth,
  The slime, the earthquake shock, the whelming flood,
  Made battle ground for the colossal brood.
  But now, when centuries of love and light
  Have warmed and brightened man's old home; when might
  Is not all sinister, nor all desire
  Fierce appetite, that all-devouring fire,--
  When life is not alone a wasting scourge,
  But from the swamps of soulless strife emerge
  Some Pisgah peaks of promise where the dove
  Finds footing, high the whirling gulfs above,--
  Now the intrusion of this loathly shape,
  With pestilence-breathing jaws that blackly gape
  For indiscriminate prey, is sure a thing
  To set celestial guards once more a-wing;
  To fire a new St. Michael or St. George
  With the bright death to cleave the monster's gorge,
  And trample out the Laidly Worm's last breath
  In the convulsions of reluctant death.
  A crawling, craven, sneaking, snaking brute;
  Purposeless spite, and hatred absolute,
  In hideous shape incarnate! Venomed Gad
  In Civilisation's path; malignant-mad,
  And blindly biting; raising an asp-neck
  In Beauty's foot-tracks, and prepared to wreck
  The ordered work of ages in a day,
  To raze and shatter, to abase and slay.
  Blind as the earthquake, headlong as the storm,
  Yet in such hideous subter-human form,
  Vulgar as venomous! Dragon indeed,
  And dangerous, but with no soul save greed,
  No aim save chaos. Bloody, yet so blind,
  The common enemy of humankind;
  Whose age-stored works and ways it yearns to blast,
  To smite to ruined fragments, and to cast
  Prone--as itself is prone--in common dust.
  The Beautiful, the Wise, the Strong, the Just,
  All fruit of labour, and all spoil of thought,
  All that co-operant Man hath won or wrought,
  All that the heart has loved, the mind has taught
  Through the long generations, hoarded gains
  Of plastic fancies, and of potent brains;
  Thrones, Temples, Marts, Art's alcoves, Learning's domes,
  Patrician palaces, and bourgeois homes.
  Down, down!--to glut its spleen, the paltry thing,
  Impotent, save to lurk, and coil, and spring,
  But powerful as the poison-drop, once sped,
  That creeps, corrupts, and leaves its victim--dead!
  As the asp's fang could turn to pulseless clay
  The Pride of Egypt, so this Worm can slay
  If left long covert for its crawling course.
  Up, up against it every virile force,
  And every valorous virtue! By its hiss
  'Tis known hostis humani generis,
  Let Civilisation snatch St. Michael's sword,
  And slay this Dragon, of a tribe abhorred
  The meanest and the most malignant Worm
  Which can spill venom, but, attacked, will squirm,
  Shrink, splutter, vanish. With no noble end,
  All men must be its foes, blind hatred its sole friend!

       *       *       *       *       *

BREAKING.

    [In his spot-barred Billiard-Match with H. COLES, PEALL made
    breaks of 108, 133, 64, 52, 78, 77, and 80.]

  Break, break, break
    On thy Billiard-board, oh P.!
  As easy as cutting butter
    The business seems to thee.

  "Oh, well that the spot is barred,"
    The knowing ones glibly say,
  "Or we might get no chance
    Of a COLES' strike here to-day."

  And the marvellous game goes on.
    Till the watchers have their fill;
  And one drops off, and dreams
    He's taken the "Red" for a pill.

  Break, break, break!
    And there's one that will broken be;
  For the Pony I put on the other man
    Will never come back to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGGESTION FROM "CHILDE HAROLD" AT OLYMPIA.--"I stood in Venice on the Bridge of Size And paint,"
&c., &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE FIRST GREEN CHAIR.

  Reach it, attendant; wicked winter flies off:
    Place it with pomp for me to sit and stare
  Up at the sun who banquets us with cries of
      "Chair!"

  Long have we pined in darkness most uncanny:
    Now to Hyde Park return its gauze of gold,
  Jewels of crocus and enhancements mani-
      -fold.

  Welcome, delicious zephyr, blithe new-comer,
    Urging to purchase patent-leather boots,
  Hats of a virgin glossiness, and summer
      suits.

  Welcome, attire of carnival-carousers,
    Suddenly bursting on the 'wildered view.
  Mine--I don't mind confessing it--are trousers
      new,

  These that, serene in atmosphere serenest,
    Droop o'er a Chair, whose emerald taunts the trees--
  Green are the leaves, and greener than the greenest
      Peas!

  All things must end: to-morrow may be icy:
    Wither too soon the joys that freshest are;
  End will sweet summer reveries, and my ci-
      gar.

  Ends too that master-piece of Messrs. HYAM
    Bashfully hinted at in line sixteen;
  Green was the Chair I sat on--and now I am
      green!

       *       *       *       *       *

"ALL'S (FAIRLY) WELL."

    SCENE--The War Office. Sanctum of the COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
    H.R.H. is seated on a chair. To him enter (after being
    properly complimented by a couple of Grenadiers on guard
    over an area) INSPECTOR-GENERAL OF EVERYTHING, Field-Marshal
    PUNCH.

Inspector-General (sharply). Well, Sir! (COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF comes briskly to attention.) No,
your Royal Highness, you can be seated. I don't want to disturb you--much! And now, how is
the Easter Review getting on?

Com.-in-Chief. First-rate, Sir. Excellent, Sir! Couldn't be better, Sir!

Insp.-Gen. (dryly). I have heard those phrases before, your Royal Highness--especially "couldn't
be better"--and found subsequently that things ought to have been better, very much better, Sir.

Com.-in-Chief (anxiously). But I assure you, Sir, that this time we are doing our level best.
Why, Sir, fancy, we are going to have thirty thousand men under arms! Think of that, Sir--thirty
thousand men!

Insp.-Gen. About the numbers of a German Brigade, or is it a Regiment?

Com.-in-Chief (with a forced laugh). Come, Sir, I see you are joking! Yes, thirty thousand
men, and some of them are going down fully equipped. Why, for instance, the Artists will march
the whole way to the scene of the operations with their own regimental transport! And so will
the 1st London Engineers. Think of that, Sir!

Insp.-Gen. And how much have you gentlemen here had to do with that, Sir? Why, the Volunteers
would have been left in a state of utter unpreparedness had not the public taken the initiative.
What did the War Office and the Horse Guards do towards giving them their kit?

Com.-in-Chief. Well, it is all right now, Sir. And we are going to have a splendid time of
it. The idea is that a hostile force has landed at Deal during the early hours of Monday morning,
and--

Insp.-Gen. (interrupting). Yes, I have read all that in the papers. But come, tell me who is
to command?

Com.-in.-Chief (rather taken aback). Well, Sir, the customary crew. I suppose BILLY SEYMOUR.

Insp. Gen. (severely). I presume, your Royal Highness, that you refer to General Lord WILLIAM
SEYMOUR, who will be in command at Dover.

Com.-in-Chief (abashed). Certainly, Sir. You are a little particular to-day, Sir.

Insp. Gen. (gravely). I am always particular--very particular--when I have to deal with the
Volunteers. Well, Sir, General Lord WILLIAM SEYMOUR, commands at Dover--proceed, Sir; pray proceed.

Com.-in-Chief. Then, Sir, there's General GOODENOUGH at Maidstone, and General DAWSON-SCOTT
at Chatham.

Insp.-Gen. Is he a Volunteer?

Com.-in-Chief (laughing). Why no, Sir; of course not, Sir. Why he's in the Royal Engineers.
Although in my Crimean days we never considered Sappers soldiers. We used to say that--

Insp.-Gen. (severely). No levity, Sir. And pray who else is to be in command?

Com.-in-Chief. Well, Sir, I shall be present myself on Saturday, and then take the March-past
on Monday.

Insp.-Gen. Yes; but how about the Volunteers? What about them? Why don't you let the officers
command their own men?

Com.-in-Chief. Why, Sir, you see in time of war--

Insp.-Gen. (interrupting). You would find Volunteer officers as capable as any others. Your
Royal Highness has no doubt studied the lessons taught by the war between the Northerners and
the Southerners in America?

Com.-in-Chief. I have glanced at the subject, Sir, at the Royal United Service Institute. And
may I venture to hope that you are satisfied, Sir?

Insp.-Gen. (after a pause). Well, yes, I think you are doing better. But, in future, give a
share of the command to Volunteers pur et simple. And now just jot down what I have further
to say to you.

    [Scene closes in upon the COM.-IN-CHIEF taking notes.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONNECTED WITH THE PRESS.

At a recent meeting of the Institute of Journalists, it was proposed that future candidates
for membership should undergo an examination to test their qualifications before election.
Should the proposal be adopted, no doubt some such paper as the following will be set to those
desirous of obtaining the right of adding "M.I.J." to their names.

1. Would you as a Reporter venture to use such expressions as "devouring element" or "destructive
fluid" in sending in "flimsy" to a London Daily Paper? State when you would consider yourself
entitled to describe yourself "a Special."

2. What are the rights of a Journalist at a free luncheon? If an Editor finds himself present,
should he return thanks for the Press himself, or leave that duty in the hands of a bumptious
Reporter.

3. Write an essay upon the Law of Libel, and say when a paper, (1) should apologise, (2) fight
it out, and, (3) settle it out of Court.

4. Define the difference between a "comment of public importance" and a "puffing advertisement."

5. What is "log-rolling?" Give examples to illustrate the meaning of the word.

6. Show, concisely, why the World could not revolve without the Press, and why the Press would
cease to be without your own personal assistance.

       *       *       *       *       *

UPON JULIA'S COAT.

(AFTER HERRICK.)

  Whenas my JULIA wears a sack,
  That hides the outline of her back,
  I cry, in sore distress, "Alack!"
  She showed a dainty waist when dressed
  In jacket; true, the size confessed
  That whalebone had its shape compressed.
  Still was her form sweet as her face,
  But now what change has taken place!
  This "sack coat" hides all maiden grace.
  Although men's clothes are always vile,
  The coat, the trousers and the "tile"!
  Some sense still lingers in each style.
  But women's garments should be fair,
  All graceful, gay and debonair.
  And if they lack good sense, why care?
  O JULIA, cease to wear a sack,
  A garb all artists should attack,
  In which both sense and beauty lack!

       *       *       *       *       *

DRINKS AND DRAMAS.

    ("HENRY THE EIGHTH is a Soda-water Play."--Mr. Irving's
    Evidence before the Committee.)

Mr. Irving has now completed his list of refreshments suited to performances. They can be obtained,
like Mr. GOSCHEN's reserve of shillings, "on application," which does not mean gratis.

Macbeth.--Very fine old Scotch.

Hamlet.--Bitters.

Romeo and Juliet.--Rum and Milk.

Othello.--Dublin Stout.

Merchant of Venice.--Port(1 A.).

Charles the First.--Bottled Ale (with a fine head).

The Cup.--Tea.

Faust.--Ginger Brandy.

Much Ado About Nothing.--Benedictine.

Corsican Brothers.--Half-and-half.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BERLIN CITIZEN'S DIARY.

(TRANSLATED BY OUR FIRST STANDARD BOARD SCHOLAR.)

    ["It is stated that the soldier who, on Friday last, fired
    at and killed a man who threatened him while on sentry duty
    before the barracks in the Wrangel-strasse, Berlin, has been
    promoted to the rank of corporal, for what is described as his
    correct conduct on the occasion. The passerby, who was wounded
    at the same time, still lies in a precarious condition."--St.
    James's Gazette, April 6.]

April 1.--I go walking near barracks; see man looking quietly at building. Suddenly fires the
sentry with his long distance rifle, so that the straight onward through the harmless onlooker's
heart and through my never sufficiently to be regretted right arm passing bullet in the remote
distance a child kills. Long live our good Emperor and his glorious army! Carried home insensible.

June 1.--At last am I from arm-amputation recovered and walk again out. The sentry was for
his on the first April quite courageous act to be Sergeant promoted. Here comes a Sergeant!
He is it! Look curiously at him whereupon he me in the leg shoots. Long live our Emperor! Again
carried home.

Sept. 1.--Again out, in invalid chair, meet same man, now Lieutenant. I murmur sadly, "Ah,
my friend, I gave you a leg-up indeed!" Then he, saying that I him insulted have, my remaining
arm with his sword off cuts. I respect our Emperor, but I love not his soldiers now. Must hire
an amanuensis.

January 1.--After my long illness go I once again, Unter den Linden, in my invalid chair--that
is to say, what is left of me. My enemy is now a Colonel. Shall I him again see? Heaven forbid!
Alas, he comes even now, with those weapons which so rapidly him increase, and me diminish!
I say nothing, but he, seeing me, with his sword my last limb off cuts. I love not even our
Emperor now.

May 1.--To-day is the Socialists' Day, and I can once more out-dragged be. I am now a without
legs or arms Socialist. My enemy can be promoted now only by my body. He has become a General
and Count--(Here the Diary ends abruptly.)

"Berlin, May 2.--Yesterday an unfortunate Gentleman, without arms or legs, when passing the
Royal Palace in his invalid chair, was attacked by a distinguished officer, who ran his sword
through the heart of the unoffending civilian. The assassin was immediately promoted, as is
usual in such cases, and is now Field Marshal Prince BLUTUNDRUHM VON SCHLACHTHAUSEN."--London
Daily Papers. It is bad enough to have him unexpectedly rising from a customary seat; usually
finds a place on top Bench below Gangway, whence, in days that are no more, NEWDEGATE used
to lament fresh evidences of Papal ascendancy. House grown accustomed to hearing the familiar
voice from this accustomed spot. To-night, conversation on question of Privilege been going
forward for some time. Seemed about to reach conclusion, when suddenly, far below the Gangway
in Irish quarter, ominous sound broke on startled ear.

At first all eyes turned to NEWDEGATE's old quarters; but the voice evidently did not proceed
thence. Following the sound, Members came upon ALPHEUS CLEOPHAS breaking out in a fresh place.
Otherwise, all the same; the flat-toned voice, the imperturbable manner that awaits cessation
of storm of obloquy, and then completes interrupted sentence; the conviction that somebody
(generally the Government) is acting dishonestly, and needs a watchful eye kept upon him; the
information conveyed that the Eye is now turned on--all were there, each identified ALPHEUS
CLEOPHAS. Up again and again during preliminary discussion, always shouted at, and ever quietly
waiting till noise has subsided, when he finishes the interrupted sentence, and begins another.

Business done.--In Committee on Small Holdings.

Tuesday.--Happy circumstance in the history of all Administrations that there is never lacking
a friend on their own side to keep them on the right path. RADCLIFFE COOKE suddenly developed
tendency towards personally conducting the Government. Hitherto appeared as a docile follower.
New state of affairs arose in connection with Breach of Privilege by Cambrian Railway Directors.
HICKS-BEACH last night gave notice to take into consideration Special Report of Select Committee
charging Directors with Breach of Privilege. BEACH proposed to wait awhile till "the other
side" had got up a case or two, to show that if Masters were prone to punish their Servants
for giving inconvenient evidence on question of Hours of Labour, the Servants were no better
when they had power to inflict

on each other similar punishment. BEACH made his proposal in matter-of-fact way, anticipating
general concurrence. But CHANNING objected; GEORGE TREVELYAN did not approve the suggestion;
while the SQUIRE OF MALWOOD eagerly seized BEACH's maladroit phrase about "the other side,"
and made great play with it. Probably BEACH might have disregarded this action from Opposition
Benches; but different when RADCLIFFE COOKE rose from Bench immediately behind Ministers, and
in severely judicial manner criticised proposed action of President of Board of Trade. BEACH
said nothing at moment; after some hours' reflection, announced withdrawal of original proposition
and intention of proceeding with indictment of Cambrian Directors without waiting for case
of "the other side."

To-day he moved that on Thursday the accused should appear at Bar of House. This on point of
being agreed to when COOKE again appeared on scene; with increased impressiveness of manner
argued against BEACH's proposal. Prince ARTHUR began to look uneasy; no knowing where this
sort of thing would end if it spread. What with SEXTON on one side correcting grammar of Ministerial
Resolutions, and RADCLIFFE COOKE on the other amending their procedure, it really seemed time
to go to the country. Something like condition of paralysis stealing over Treasury Bench when
SPEAKER came to assistance of Ministers, and benignly but effectively pointed out to COOKE
that he was one too many, was in fact spoiling the broth. COOKE tried to argue the matter out,
but SPEAKER peremptory and Ministers saved from fresh rebuff.

"It's all very well for them arguing round the subject like that," said MACLURE, nervously
mopping his forehead. "But it's a very different thing with me, at my age and fighting weight.
An Insurance Broker, Director of various Railway and other Companies, formerly Major of the
40th Lancashire Volunteers, a Trustee for three Church livings, and father of a large family,
to be brought up on a Breach of Privilege is no slight matter. Indignity is aggravated by the
locality. 'The Bar' is the last place in the world where the friends of JOHN WILLIAM MACLURE
would think it likely to find him."

Business done.--In Committee on Small Holdings.

Thursday Night.--After all, MACLURE didn't have to stand at the Bar to-night, so his feelings
were saved a peculiarly painful wrench. The SERGEANT-AT-ARMS also looked in, bringing the Mace
with him.

"Now if they were really going to have anything at the Bar," said MACLURE, looking wistfully
on, "a drop of mulled port or anything like that, Mace would come in handy. Suppose ERSKINE
would dip it in the jorum and stir the liquor round."

So MACLURE joked, and so, as JULIUS 'ANNIBAL, naturally well-posted up in this epoch of history,
reminds me, NERO fiddled whilst Rome burned. Fact is, MACLURE in terrible funk; mental condition
shared by his Chairman, Co-director, and the Manager.

