 No imagination can picture what
he would have become there: certainly some pasha, like Djezzar in Syria, or a khedive like
Mahomet-Ali, afterwards at Cairo; he already saw himself in the light of a conqueror, like
Ghengis-Khan,[3318] a founder like Alexander or Baber, a prophet like Mahomet; as he himself
declares, "one could work only on a grand scale in the Orient," and there he would have worked
on a grand scale; Europe, perhaps, would have gained by it, and especially France.

III. Ambition and Selection.

     The Revolution provides an internal outlet and an unlimited
     career.--Effect of this.--Exigencies and pretensions of the
     modern man.--Theoretical rule of selection among rivals.
     --Popular suffrage raised to be lord and judge.--Consequence
     of its verdict.--Unworthiness of its choice.

But the Revolution arrived and the ambitions which, under the ancient Régime, found a field
abroad or cooled down at home, arose on the natal soil and suddenly expanded beyond all calculation.
After 1789, France resembles a hive in a state of excitement; in a few hours, in the brief
interval of an August morning, each insect puts forth two huge wings, soars aloft and "all
whirl together pell-mell;" many fall to the ground half cut to pieces and begin to crawl upward
as before; others, with more strength or with better luck, ascend and glitter on the highways
of the atmosphere.--Every great highway and every other road is open to everybody through the
decrees of the Constituent-Assembly, not only for the future, but even immediately. The sudden
dismissal of the entire ruling staff, executive, or consultative, political, administrative,
provincial, municipal, ecclesiastical, educational, military, judicial and financial, summon
to take office all who covet it and who have a good opinion of themselves. All previously existing
conditions, birth, fortune, education, old family and all apprenticeships, customs and ways
which retard and limit advancement, are abolished: There are no longer any guarantees or sponsors;
all Frenchmen are eligible to all employments; all grades of the legal and social hierarchy
are conferred by a more or less direct election, a suffrage becoming more and more popular,
by a mere numerical majority. Consequently, in all branches of the government under central
or local authority and patronage, there is the installation of a new staff of officials. The
transposition which everywhere substitutes the old inferior to the old superior, is universal,[3319]
"lawyers for judges, bourgeois for statesmen, former plebeians for former nobles, soldiers
for officers, officers for generals, curés for bishops, vicars for curés, monks for vicars,
stock-jobbers for financiers, self-taught persons for administrators, journalists for publicists,
rhetoricians for legislators, and the poor for the rich." A sudden jump from the bottom to
the top of the social ladder by a few, from the lowest to the highest rung, from the rank of
sergeant to that of major-general, from the condition of a pettifogger or starving newspaper-hack
to the possession of supreme authority, even to the effective exercise of omnipotence and dictatorship--such
is the capital, positive, striking work of the Revolution.

At the same time, and as an after-effect, a revolution is going on in minds and the moral effect
of the show is greater and more lasting than the events themselves. The minds have been stirred
to their very depths; stagnant passions and slumbering pretensions are aroused. The multitude
of offices presented and expected vacancies "has excited the thirst for power, stimulated self-esteem,
and fired the hopes of men the most inept. An fierce, gross presumption has freed the ignorant
and the foolish of any feeling of modesty or incompetence; they have deemed themselves capable
of everything because the law awards public office simply to the able. Everybody had a perspective
glimpse of gratified ambition; the soldier dreamt only of displacing the officer, the officer
of becoming general, the clerk of supplanting the head administrator, the lawyer of yesterday
of the supreme court, the curé of becoming bishop, the most frivolous littérateur of seating
himself on the legislative bench. Places and positions, vacant due to the promotion of so many
parvenus, provided in their turn a vast career to the lower classes. Seeing a public functionary
issue out of nothingness, where is the shoeblack whose soul would not stir with ambition?"--This
new sentiment must be taken into account: for, whether reasonable or not, it is going to last,
maintain its energy, stimulate men with extraordinary force[3320] and become one of the great
incentives of will and action. Henceforth, government and administration are to become difficult
matters; the forms and plans of the old social architecture are no longer applicable; like
construction is not possible with materials of a different kind, whether with stable or unstable
materials, with men who do not dream of quitting their condition or with men who think of nothing
but that.

In effect, whatever vacancy may occur, each aspirant thinks himself fit for it, and only one
of the aspirants can obtain it. Accordingly some rule of preference must be adopted outside
of the opinion that each candidate entertains of himself. Accordingly, at a very early date,
one was established, and there could be no better one, namely, that, among the competitors
for the place, the most competent to fill it should be chosen. Unfortunately, the judge, ordinary,
extraordinary and supreme, instituted to decide in this case, was the plurality of male, adult
Frenchmen, counted by heads, that is to say a collective being in which the small intelligent,
élite body is drowned in the great rude mass; of all juries, the most incompetent, the easiest
duped and misled, the least able to comprehend the questions laid before it and the consequences
of its answer; the worst informed, the most inattentive, the most blinded by preconceived sympathies
or antipathies, the most willingly absent, a mere flock of enlisted sheep always robbed or
cheated out of their vote, and whose verdict, forced or simulated, depended on politicians
beforehand, above and below, through the clubs as well as through the revolutionary government,
the latter, consequently, maneuvering in such a way as to impose itself along with their favorites
on the choice of the French people. Between 1792 and 1799, the republican official staff just
described is thus obtained.--It is only in the army where the daily and keen sense of a common
physical and mortal danger ends in dictating the choice of the best, and raises tried merit
to the highest rank; and yet it must be noted that Jacobin infatuation bore down as rigorously
on the army as elsewhere and on two occasions: at the outset through the election of a superior
officer conferred on subordinates, which handed rank over to the noisy disputants and intemperate
intriguers of the mess-room; and again during the Reign of Terror, and even later,[3321] in
the persecution or dismissal of so many patriotic and deserving officers, which led Gouvion-Saint-Cyr
and his comrades, through disgust, to avoid or decline accepting high rank, in the scandalous
promotion of club brawlers and docile nullities, in the military dictatorship of the civil
proconsuls, in the supremacy conferred on Léchelle and Rossignol, in the subordination forced
on Kléber and Marceau, in the absurd plans of a demagogue with huge epaulettes like Cartaux,[3322]
in the grotesque orders of the day issued by a swaggering inebriate like Henriot,[3323] in
the disgrace of Bonaparte, and in the detention of Hoche.--In the civil order of things, it
was worse. Not only was the rule of regulating promotion by merit not recognized but it was
applied in an inverse sense. In the central government as in the local government, and from
top to bottom of the hierarchy, from the post of minister of foreign affairs down to that of
president of a petty revolutionary committee, all offices were for the unworthy. Their unfitness
kept on increasing inasmuch as incessant weeding out worked against them, the functionary,
degraded by his work, growing worse along with his function.--Thus the constitutional rights
of merit and capacity ended in the practical privilege of incapacity and demerit. And in the
allotment of grades and social advantages, distributive justice had given way to distributive
injustice, while practice, contrary to theory, instituted permanently, on the one hand, the
exclusion or retirement of competent, instructed, expert, well-bred, honorable and respected
men and, on the other hand, brought forward illiterate, inept and rude novices, coarse and
vulgar brutes, common blackguards, men used up or of tarnished reputations, rogues ready for
anything, fugitives from justice, in short the adventurers and outcasts of every kind and degree.[3324]
The latter, owing their success to perversion or lack of conscientiousness, derived their principal
title from their vigorous fists and a fixed determination to hold on to their places as they
had obtained them, that is to say by main force and by the murder or exile of their rivals.--Evidently,
the staff of officials which the Declaration of Human Rights had promised was not the staff
on duty ten years later there was a lack of experience.[3325] In 1789, careers were open to
every ambition; down to 1799, the rivalry of ambitions had simply produced a wild uproar and
a brutal conquest. The great modern difficulty remained: how to discipline the competition
and to find an impartial judge, an undisputed arbitrator of the competition.

IV. Napoleon, Judge-Arbitrator-Ruler.

     Napoleon as judge of competition.--Security of his seat.
     --Independence of his decisions.--Suppression of former
     influences and end of monarchical or democratic intrigues.
     --Other influences against which he is on guard.--His favorite
     rule.--Estimate of candidates according to the kind and
     amount of their useful labor.--His own competency.--His
     perspicacity.--His vigilance.--Zeal and labor of his
     functionaries.--Result of competition thus viewed and of
     functions thus exercised.--Talents utilized and jealousies
     disarmed.

Behold him, at last, this judge-arbitrator. On the 8th November, 1799, he appears and takes
his seat, and that very evening he goes to work, makes his selections among the competitors
and gives them their commissions. He is a military chieftain and has installed himself; consequently
he is not dependent on a parliamentary majority, and any insurrection or gathering of a mob
is at once rendered abortive by his troops before it is born. Street sovereignty is at an end;
Parisians are long to remember the 13th of Vendémaire and the way General Bonaparte shot them
down on the steps of Saint-Roch. All his precautions against them are taken the first day and
against all agitators whatever, against all opponents disposed to dispute his jurisdiction.
His arm-chair as first Consul and afterwards his throne as Emperor are firmly fixed; nobody
but himself can undermine them; he is seated definitively and will stay there. Profound silence
reigns in the public crowd around him; some among them dare whisper, but his police has its
eye on them. Instead of conforming to opinion he rules it, masters it and, if need be, he manufactures
it. Alone by himself from his seat on high, in perfect independence and security, he announces
the verdicts of distributive justice. Nevertheless he is on his guard against the temptations
and influences which have warped the decisions of his predecessors; in his tribunal, the schemes
and intrigues which formerly obtained credit with the people, or with the king, are no longer
in vogue; from now on, the profession of courtier or of demagogue is a poor one.--On the one
hand, there is no success, as formerly under the monarchy, through the attentions of the ante-chamber,
through elegant manners, delicate flattery, fashionable drawing-rooms, or valets and women
on an intimate footing; mistresses here enjoy no credit and there are neither favorites nor
the favored; a valet is regarded as a useful implement; great personages are not considered
as extra-ornamental and human furniture for the palace. Not one among them dare ask for a place
for a protégé which he is incapable of filling, an advancement which would derange the lists
of promotions, a pass over the heads of others; if they obtain any favors, these are insignificant
or political; the master grants them as an after-thought, to rally somebody, or a party, to
his side; they personally, their ornamental culture, their high-bred tone, their wit, their
conversational powers, their smiles and bows--all this is lost on him, or charged to account.
He has no liking for their insinuating and discreet ways;[3326] he regards them as merely good
domestics for parade; all he esteems in them is their ceremonial significance, that innate
suppleness which permits them to be at once servile and dignified, the hereditary tact which
teaches them how to present a letter, not from hand to hand, but on the rim of a hat, or on
a silver plate, and these faculties he estimates at their true worth.--On the other hand, nobody
succeeds, as lately under the Republic, through tribunal or club verbosity, through appeals
to principles, through eloquent or declamatory tirades; "glittering generalities," hollow abstractions
and phrases made to produce an impression have no effect; and what is better, political ideology,
with a solicitor or pleader, is a bad note. The positive, practical mind of the judge has taken
in at a glance and penetrated to the bottom of arguments, means and valid pretensions; he submits
impatiently to metaphysics and pettifoggery, to the argumentative force and mendacity of words.--This
goes so far that he distrusts oratorical or literary talent; in any event when he entrusts
active positions or a part in public business then he takes no note of it. According to him,
"the men who write well and are eloquent have no solidity of judgment; they are illogical and
very poor in discussion,"[3327] they are mere artists like others, so many word-musicians,
a kind of special, narrow-minded instrument, some of them good solo players, like Fontanes,
and who the head of a State can use, but only in official music for grand cantatas and the
decoration of his reign. Wit in itself, not alone the wit which gives birth to brilliant expressions
and which was considered a prime accomplishment under the old regime, but general intelligence,
has for him only a semi-value.[3328] "I am more brilliant[3329], you may say? Eh, what do I
care for your intelligence? What I care for is the essence of the matter. There is nobody so
foolish that is not good for something--there is no intelligence equal to everything." In fact,
on bestowing an office it is the function which delegates; the proper execution of the function
is the prime motive in determining his choice; the candidate appointed is always the one who
will best do the work assigned him. No factitious, party popularity or unpopularity, no superficial
admiration or disparagement of a clique, of a salon, or of a bureau, makes him swerve from
his standard of preference.[3330] He values men according to the quality and quantity of their
work, according to their net returns, and he estimates them directly, personally, with superior
perspicacity and universal competency. He is special in all branches of civil or military activity,
and even in technical detail; his memory for facts, actions, antecedence and circumstances,
is prodigious; his discernment, his critical analysis, his calculating insight into the resources
and shortcomings of a mind or of a soul, his faculty for gauging men, is extraordinary; through
constant verifications and rectifications his internal repertory, his biographical and moral
dictionary, is kept daily posted; his attention never flags; he works eighteen hours a day;
his personal intervention and his hand are visible even in the appointment of subordinates.
"Every man called to take part in affairs was selected by him;"[3331] it is through him that
they retain their place; he controls their promotion and by sponsors whom he knows. "A minister
could not have dismissed a functionary without consulting the emperor, while the ministers
could all change without bringing about two secondary changes throughout the empire. A minister
did not appoint even a second-class clerk without presenting a list of several candidates to
the emperor and, opposite to it, the name of the person recommending him." All, even at a distance,
felt that the master's eyes were on them. "I worked," says Beugnot,[3332] "from night to morning,
with singular ardor; I astonished the natives of the country who did not know that the emperor
exercised over his servitors, however far from him they might be, the miracle of the real presence.
I thought I saw him standing over me as I worked shut up in my cabinet."--"Under him," writes
Roederer, "there is no man of any merit who, as a reward for long and difficult labor, does
not feel himself better compensated by a new task than by the most honorable leisure." Never
did positions less resemble sinecures. Never was the happiness of successful candidates or
the misery of unsuccessful candidates better justified. Never the compliance, the difficulty,
the risks of a required task have been compensated more fairly by the enjoyment of the allocated
rewards nor moderated the bitterness of the frustrated pretensions.[3333] Never were public
functions assigned or fulfilled in a way to better satisfy the legitimate craving for advancement,
the dominant desire of democracy and of the century, and in a way to better disarm the bad
passions of democracy and of the century, consisting of an envious leveling, anti-social rancor
and the inconsolable regrets of the man who has failed. Never did human competition encounter
a similar judge, so constant, so expert and so justified.--He is himself conscious of the unique
part he plays. His own ambition, the highest and most insatiate of all, enables him to comprehend
the ambition of others; to place everywhere the man who suits the post in the post which suits
the man--this is what he has done for himself and what he does for others. He knows that in
this lies his power, his deep-seated popularity, his social utility.

"Nobody," says Napoleon,[3334] "is interested in overthrowing a government in which all the
deserving are employed."

Then, again, comes his significant exclamation at the end, his summary of modern society, a
solemn grandiose figure of speech found in the legendary souvenirs of a glorious antiquity,
a classic reminiscence of the noble Olympian games,

"Henceforth, all careers are open to talent!"

IV. The Struggle for Office and Title.

     Competition and prizes.--Multitude of offices.--How their
     number is increased by the extension of central patronage
     and of the French territory.--Situation of a Frenchman
     abroad.--It gives him rank.--Rapidity of promotion.
     --Constant elimination and multiplicity of vacancies in the
     army.--Preliminary elimination in the civil service.
     --Proscription of cultivated men and interruption of education
     during the Revolution.--General or special instruction rare
     in 1800.--Small number of competent candidates.--Easy
     promotion due to the lack of competitors.--Importance and
     attraction the prizes offered.--The Legion of Honor.--The
     imperial nobility.--Dotations and majorities.--Emulation.

Let us now consider the career which he thus opens to them and the prizes he offers. These
prizes are in full view, ranged along each racecourse, graduated according to distances and
more and more striking and magnificent. Every ambition is provided for, the highest as well
as the lowest, and these are countless; for they consist of offices of every grade in the civil
and military hierarchies of a great centralized State whose intervention is universal, under
a government which systematically tolerates no authority or influence outside of itself and
which monopolizes every species of social importance for its own functionaries.[3335]--All
these prizes, even the smallest and most insignificant, are awarded by it. In the first place,
Napoleon has two or three times as many offices to bestow, on the soil of old France alone,
as the former kings; for, even in the choice of their staff of officials, the latter were not
always free; in many places they did not have, or no longer had the right of appointment. At
one time, this right be longed from time immemorial to provincial or municipal corporations,
laic or ecclesiastic, to a certain chapter, abbey or collegiate church, to a bishop in his
diocese, to the seignior in his seignory. At another time the king, once possessing the right,
had surrendered or alienated it, in whole or in part through gratuitous favor and the concession
of a survivorship or for money and through the sale of an office; in brief, his hands were
tied fast by hereditary or acquired privileges There are no privileges now to fetter the hands
of the First Consul. The entire civil organization dates from him. The whole body of officials
is thus of his own selection, and under him it is much more numerous than that of the ancient
Régime; for he has extended the attributions of the State beyond all former bounds. Directly
or indirectly, he appoints by hundreds of thousands the mayors and councilors of municipalities
and the members of general councils, the entire staff of the administration, of the finances,
of the judicature, of the clergy, of the University, of public works and of public charity.
Besides all this, myriads of ministerial and notarial officials lawyers, ushers, auctioneers,
and by way of surplus, or as a natural result, the members of every great private association
since no collective enterprise, from the Bank of France and the press to stage lines and tontines,
may be established without his permission, nor exist without his tolerance. Not counting the
latter, and after deducting likewise the military or active duty and the functionaries who
draw pay, the prefect from the earliest years report that, since 1789, the number of people
"employed or under government pay" has more than doubled: In Doubs, in the year IX, instead
of 916 there are 1820; in Meurthe in the year XIII, instead of 1828 there are 3091; in Ain,
in 1806 instead of 955 there are 1771[3336]. As to the army, it has tripled, and according
to the First Consul's own calculations, instead of 9,000 or 10,000 officers as in 1789, there
are more than 20,000.--These figures go on increasing on the old territory through the very
development of the new organization, through the enormous increase of the army, through the
re-establishment of religious worship, through the installation of droits réunis, through the
institution of the University, owing to the increasing number of officials, curés and assistant-priests,
of professors and school-teachers, and of retired and pensioned invalids.[3337]

And these figures, which already swell of themselves, are to swell an additional half through
the extension of the ancient territory. Instead of 86 departments with a population of 26 millions,
France ends in comprising 130 departments with 42 million inhabitants--Belgium and Piedmont,
then Hanover, Tuscany, Central Italy, Illyria, Holland and the Hanseatic provinces, that is
to say 44 departments and 16 millions of annexed Frenchmen;[3338] affording another large outlet
for little and big ambitions.--Add still another, as a surplus and not less extensive outlet,
outside of France: for the subject princes and the vassal kings, Eugène, Louis, Jerome, Murat,
and Joseph, each with their governments, import into their realms a more or less numerous body
of French officials, familiars, court dignitaries, generals, ministers, administrators, even
clerks and other indispensable subalterns, if for no other purpose than to bring the natives
within the military and civil compartments of the new Régime and teach them on the spot the
conscription, the administration, the civil code, and systems of accounts like those of Paris.
Even in the independent or allied States, in Prussia, in Poland, in the confederation of the
Rhine, there are, at intervals or permanently, Frenchmen in position and in authority to command
contingent forces, to garrison fortresses, to receive supplies and secure the payment of war
contributions. Even with the corporal and custom-house inspector on duty on coast at Dantzig
and at Reggio, the sentiment of victorious priority equals the possession of rank; in their
eyes the natives of the country are semi-barbarians or semi-savages, a backward or prejudiced
lot, not even knowing how to speak their language; they feel themselves superior, as formerly
the señor soldado of the sixteenth century, or the civis romanus. Never since the great Spanish
monarchy and the Old Roman empire has a conquering State and propagator of a new régime afforded
its subjects such gratifications of self-esteem, nor opened so vast a career to their ambitions.

For, having once adopted their career, they know better than the Spaniards under Charles V.
or the Romans under Augustus, how far they can go and how fast they can get ahead. No obstacle
impedes them; nobody feels himself confined his post; each considers the one he occupies as
provisional, each takes it only to await a better one, anticipating another at a very early
date; he dashes onward, springs aloft and occupies in advance the superior post which he means
to secure on the first vacancy, and, under this Régime, the vacancies are numerous.--These
vacancies, in the military service and in the grade of officers, may be estimated at nearly
four thousand per annum;[3339] after 1808 and 1809, but especially after the disaster of 1812
and 1813, places are no longer lacking but subjects fill them; Napoleon is obliged to accept
youths for officers as beardless as his conscripts, eighteen-year-old apprentices who, after
a year or six months in the military academy, might finish their apprenticeship on the battle-field,
pupils taken from the philosophy or rhetoric classes, willing children (de bonne volonté):
On the 13th of December 1808, he draws 50 from his lycées, who don the gold-lace of under-officers
at once; in 1809, he calls out 250, to serve in the depot battalions; in 1810, he calls out
150 of the age of nineteen who "know the drill," and who are to be sent on distant expeditions
with the commission of second-lieutenant; in 1811, 400 for the school of noncommissioned officers
at Fontainebleau, 20 for the Ile-de-Ré and 84 who are to be quartermasters; and, in 1812, 112
more and so on. Naturally, thanks to annually increasing gaps made by cannon and bayonet, the
survivors in this body of youth mount the faster; in 1813 and 1814, there are colonels and
lieutenant-colonels of the age of twenty-five.

In the civil service, if fewer are killed everybody is almost equally over tasked. Under this
reign one is soon used up, physically and morally, even in pacific employments, and this also
supplies vacancies. Besides, in default of deaths, wounds and violent elimination, there is
another elimination, not less efficacious, operating in this direction, and for a long time,
in favor of men of ability, preparing places for them and accelerating their advancement. Napoleon
accepts none but competent candidates; now, in 1800, there is a dearth of acceptable candidates
for places in the civil service and not, as in 1789, or at the present time, a superabundance
and even too great a crowd.--In the military service especially, capacity is innate; natural
endowments, courage, coolness, quick perception, physical activity, moral ascendancy, topographical
imagination form its principal elements; men just able to read, write and cipher became, in
three or four years, during the Revolution, admirable officers and conquering generals.--It
is not the same in relation to civil capacity; this requires long and continuous study. To
become a priest, magistrate, engineer, professor, prefect or school-teacher, one must have
studied theology or law, mathematics or Latin, administration or the finances. If not, the
functionary is not qualified to serve: he must, at the very least, know how to spell, be able
to write French, examine a law-case, draw up a report, keep accounts, and if needs be, comprehend
a plan, make an estimate and read off a map. Men of this stamp are rare at the beginning of
the Consulate. As notables,[3340] the Revolution mowed them down first. Among all their sons
and so many well-bred youth who have become soldiers through patriotism, or who have left their
families to prevent these from becoming suspect, one half repose on the battlefield or have
left the hospital only for the cemetery; "the muscadin[3341] died from the first campaign."
In any event, for them and their younger brothers, for the children beginning to learn Latin
and mathematics, for all who hoped to pursue liberal professions, for the entire generation
about to receive either a superior, a common, or even a primary instruction, and hence to furnish
brains prepared for intellectual work, there was a lack of this for ten years. Not only were
the endowments which provided for instruction confiscated but the educational staff, nearly
all ecclesiastic, was one of the most proscribed among those proscribed. Whilst military requisition
and the closing of the schools suppressed the pupils, massacres, banishment, imprisonment,
destitution and the scaffold suppressed the teachers. Whilst the ruin of universities and colleges
did away with theoretical apprenticeship, the ruin of manufactures and of trade abolished practical
apprenticeship. Through the long interruption of all studies, general instruction as well as
special competency became rare product in the market.--Hence it is that, in 1800, and during
the three or four following years, whoever brought to market either one the other of these
commodities was certain of a quick sale;[3342] the new government needed them more than anybody.
The moment the seller made up his mind, he was bought, and, whatever he may be, a former Jacobin
or a former émigré; he is employed. If he brings both commodities and is zealous, he is promptly
promoted; if, on trial, he is found of superior capacity, he will, like Mollien, Gaudin, Tronchet,
Pasquier and Molé, attain to the highest posts, for he finds scarcely any competitors. These
he would have had had things followed their usual course; it is the Revolution which has cleared
the ground around him; without that the road would have been obstructed; competent candidates
would have swarmed. Reckon, if possible, how many men of talent who were destroyed, royalists,
monarchists, feuillants, Girondists and even Jacobins. They were the élite of the noblesse,
of the clergy, of the bourgeoisie, of the youth and those of riper age. Thus rid of their most
formidable rivals the survivors pursue their way at top speed; the guillotine has wrought for
them in advance; it has effected openings in their own ranks, made by bullets in every battle
in the ranks of the army, and, in the civil hierarchy as in the military hierarchy, merit,
if demonstrated by services, or not arrested by death, reaches the highest summit in very few
years.

The prizes offered on these summits are splendid; no attraction is lacking. The great trainer
who displays them has omitted none of the seductions which excite and stimulate an ordinary
mind. He has associated with the positive values of power and wealth every value incident to
imagination and opinion; hence his institution of decorations and the Legion of Honor.[3343]

"They call it a toy,"[3344] said he, "but men are led by toys... Frenchmen are not changed
by ten years of revolution.... See how the people prostrate themselves before foreign decorations:
they have been surprised by them and accordingly do not fail to wear them.... The French cherish
but one sentiment, honor: that sentiment, then, requires nourishing--they must have honors."

A very few are satisfied with their own achievements; ordinary men are not even content with
the approbation they perceive in the eyes of others: it is too intermittent, too reserved,
too mute; they need fame that is brilliant and noisy; they want to hear the constant hum of
admiration and respect whenever they appear or whenever their name is mentioned. Even this
does not suffice; they are unwilling that their merit should rest in men's minds in the vague
state of undefined greatness, but that it should be publicly estimated, have its current value,
enjoy undisputed and measured rank on the scale above all other lesser merits.--The new institution
affords complete satisfaction to all these exigencies of human and French nature. On the 14th
of July, 1804,[3345] the anniversary of the taking of the Bastille, Napoleon administers the
oath to the legionaries and, after a solemn mass, distributes the insignia under the dome of
the Invalides in the presence of the empress and the court; and again one month later, August
16, 1804, on the anniversary of the Emperor's birth, in the camp at Boulogne, facing the ocean
and in full view of the flotilla assembled to conquer England, before one hundred thousand
spectators and the entire army, to the roll of eighteen hundred drums. No ceremony, probably,
was ever more exciting. The eminent surgeon, Larrey, then decorated, a man of austere virtue,
spoke of it with emotion to the end of his life and never alluded that unique day but with
a trembling voice. On that day, nearly all the men of superior and tried merit and talent in
France[3346] are proclaimed, each with the title proportionate his degree of eminence--chevaliers,
officers, commanders, grand-officers, and, later on, grand-eagles; each on the same plane with
his equals of a different class, ecclesiastics alongside of laymen, civilians alongside of
soldiers; each honored by the company of his peers, Berthollet, Laplace and Lagrange alongside
of Kellermann, Jourdan and Lefebvre, Otto and Tronchet alongside of Masséna, Augereau, Ney,
Lannes, Soult and Davout; four cardinals side by side with eighteen marshals, and likewise
even down to corporal, and to Egyptian veterans blinded by ophthalmia on the banks of the Nile,
comprising common soldiers who, through some brilliant achievement, had won a sword or a gun
of honor, as, for instance, Coignet,[3347] who, dashing ahead with fixed bayonet, kills five
Austrian artillerymen and takes their cannon himself alone. Six years before this he was a
stable-boy on a farm and could neither read nor write; he is now mentioned among the first
of those promoted, a colleague and almost a comrade of Monge, the inventor of descriptive geometry,
of de Fontanes, grand-master of the university, of marshals, admirals, and the highest dignitaries,
all sharing in common an inestimable treasure, the legitimate heirs of twelve years' accumulated
glory by the sacrifice of so many heroic lives and all the more glorified because so few,[3348]
and because, in these days, a man did not obtain the cross by twenty years of plodding in a
bureau, on account of routine punctuality, but by wonderful strokes of energy and audacity,
by wounds, by braving death a hundred times and looking it in the face daily.

Henceforth, legally as well as in public opinion, they form the staff of the new society, its
declared, verified notables, enjoying precedences and even privileges. On passing along the
street the sentinel presents arms; a company of twenty-five soldiers attends their funeral
procession; in the electoral colleges of the department or arrondissement they are electors
by right and without being balloted for, simply by virtue of their rank. Their sons are entitled
to scholarships in La Fléche, at Saint-Cyr, and in the lycées, and their daughters at Ecouen
or Saint-Denis. With the exception of a title, as formerly, they lack nothing for filling the
place of the old nobility, and Napoleon re-creates this title for their benefit. The title
itself of chevalier, count, duke or prince carries along with an idea of social superiority;
when announced in a drawing room, when it precedes the first sentence of an address, those
who are present do not remain inattentive; an immemorial prejudice inclines them to award consideration
or even deference. The Revolution tried in vain to destroy this power of words and of history;
Napoleon does better: he confiscates it; he arrogates to himself the monopoly of it, he steals
the trade-mark from the ancient Régime; he himself creates 48,000 chevaliers, 1000 barons,
388 counts, 31 dukes and 4 princes. Furthermore, he stamps with his own mark the old nobles
whom he introduces into his nobility: he coins them anew and often with an inferior title;
this or that duke is lowered a notch and becomes simply a count: taken at par or at a discount
the feudal coin must, in order to pass, receive the imperial stamp which gives it its recognized
value in modern figures.

But, let the old-fashioned metal be what it may, whether gold, silver or copper, even crude
and plebeian, the new coin is of good alloy and very handsome. Frequently, like the old currency,
it displays coats of arms in high relief, a heraldic crown and the name of a locality; it no
longer bears the name of territory, and it does not call to mind a primitive sovereignty. On
the contrary, it bears the name of a victory or of a conquest and reminds one of recent exploits.
Duc de Montebello or a Prince de la Moskowa is equivalent in the imagination contemporaries
to a Duc de Montmorency or a Prince de Rohan; for, if the prince or duke of the empire is without
ancestors, he is or will be an ancestor himself. To these prizes coveted by vanity Napoleon
tacks on every substantial and pecuniary advantage, in ready money or landed property, not
alone large salaries, adjunctive sénatoreries, occasional munificent gifts,

* a million at one time to General Lasalle, but likewise vast revenues from the extraordinary
domain[3349],

* 32,463,817 francs a year divided amongst 4970 persons,

* pensions from 250 to 5000 francs for all legionaries,

* villas, large estates, private incomes, distinct and superb endowments for those of the highest
rank, a fortune of 100,000 livres income and more to 34 of these,

* a fortune of 450,000 livres in the public funds to Cambacérès, of 683,000 livres in the public
funds to Masséna, of 728,000 livres in the public funds to Ney, of 910,000 livres in the public
funds to Davout, of 1,354,000 livres in the public funds to Berthier,

* and besides all this, three "sovereign principalities," Neufchatel to Berthier, Benevento
to Talleyrand, and Ponte-Corvo to Bernadotte.--

This last attraction which, in these times of violent and premature death, is of no little
account. Napoleon opens out hereditary and undefined prospects beyond the perspectives of life
and of inferior interests. Each of the titles conferred by him, that of prince, duke, count,
baron, and even that of chevalier, is transmissible in direct descent, according to primogeniture
from father to son, and sometimes from uncle to nephew, under specified conditions which are
very acceptable, and of which the first is the institution of an inalienable majority, inattackable,
consisting of this or that income or real property, of bank stock or state securities, from
3000 francs for common chevaliers up to 200,000 francs for the dukes, that is to say, a certain
fortune in perpetuity due to the sovereign's liberality, or to the prudence of the founder,
and intended to support the dignity of the title from male to male and from link to link throughout
the future chain of successive inheritors. Through this supreme reward, the subtle tempter
has a hold on the men who care not alone for themselves but for their family: henceforth, the
work as he does, eighteen hours a day, stand fire, and say to themselves, while sinking at
their desks or facing cannon-ball that their pre-eminence survives them in their posterity:

"In any event my son will succeed me and even become greater by my death."

All the temptations which serve to overcome the natural lethargy of human matter are simultaneously
united and; with the exception of personal conscience and the desire for personal independence,
all other internal springs are strained to the utmost. One unusual circumstance gives to eager
ambitions a further increase of energy, impulse and enthusiasm.--All these successful or parvenu
men are contemporaries: all have started alike on the same line and from the same average or
low condition in life; each sees old comrades superior to himself on the upper steps; he considers
himself as good they are, suffers because he is not on their level, and strives and takes risks
so as to mount up to them. But, however high he mounts, he still sees higher yet others who
were formerly his equals; consequently, no rank obtained by them seems to him above his deserts,
and no rank that he obtains suffices for his pretensions.

"See that Masséna," exclaimed Napoleon,[3350] a few days before the battle of Wagram; "he has
honors and fame enough, but he is not satisfied; he wants be a prince like Murat and Bernadotte:
he will risk getting shot to-morrow simply to be a prince."--

Above these princes who have only the rank, the title and the money, come the grand-dukes and
reigning viceroys like Murat, grand-duke of Berg, and Eugene, viceroy of Italy. Above Eugene
and Murat are the vassal-kings, Louis, Joseph, Jerome, then Murat himself, who, among these,
is in a better place, and Bernadotte, the only sovereign that is independent; all more or less
envied by the marshals, all more or less rivals of each other, the inferior aspiring to the
superior throne, Murat inconsolable at being sent to Naples and not to Spain, and at having
only five millions of subjects instead of thirteen millions. From top to bottom of the hierarchy
and even to the loftiest places, comprising thrones, the steps rise regularly above each other
in continuous file, so that each leads to the following one, with nothing to hinder the first-comer,
provided he is lucky, has good legs and does not fall on the way, from reaching the top of
the staircase in twenty or thirty years. "It was commonly reported in the army--he has been
promoted king of Naples, of Holland, of Spain, of Sweden, as formerly was said of the same
sort of man, who had been promoted sergeant in this or that company."--Such is the total and
final impression which lingers on in all imaginations; it is in this sense that the people
interpret the new Régime, and Napoleon devotes himself to confirming the popular interpretation.
Accordingly, the first duchy he creates is for Marshal Lefebvre

"purposely," as he says,[3351] because "this marshal had been a private and everybody in Paris
had known him as a sergeant in the French guards."

--With such an example before them, and so many others like it, not less striking, there is
no ambition that does not become exalted, and often to delirium.

"At this time," says Stendhal, who seized the master-idea of the reign, "there was no apothecary's
apprentice in his back shop, surrounded by his drugs and bottles, filtering and pounding away
in his mortar, who did not say to himself that, if he chanced to make some great discovery,
he would be made a count with fifty thousand francs a year."

In those days there was no under-clerk who, in his labored penmanship, inscribed names on a
piece of parchment, that did not imagine his own name appearing some day on a senatorial or
ministerial diploma. At this time the youthful corporal who dons his first stripes of gold
braid already fancies that he hears the beating of the drums, the blast of the trumpet, and
the salvos of artillery which proclaim him marshal of the Empire.[3352]

V. Self-esteem and a good Reputation.

     The inward spring from 1789 to 1815.--Its force.--Its
     decline.--How it ends in breaking the machine down.

A new force, extraordinary, is just apparent in history, a spiritual force analogous to that
which formerly stimulated souls in Spain in the sixteenth century, in European the time of
the crusades, and in Arabia in the time of Mahomet. It stimulates the faculties to excess,
increases energy tenfold, transports man beyond or above himself, creates enthusiasts and heroes,
blinding or rendering men crazy, and hence the irresistible conquerors and rulers. It stamps
its imprint and leaves its memorials in ineffaceable characters on men and things from Cadiz
to Moscow. It overrides all natural barriers and transcends all ordinary limits. "The French
soldier," writes a Prussian officer after Jena,[3353] "are small and puny. One of our Germans
could whip any four of them. But, under fire, they become supernatural beings. They are swept
along by an indescribable ardor of which there is not a trace among our soldiers.... What can
you do with peasants whom nobles lead into battle, but whose danger they share without any
interest in their passions or recompenses!"--Coupled with the physical needs which requires
a certain amount of ease and of daily food, and which, if too strenuously opposed, produces
passing jacqueries, there is a still more potent longing which, on suddenly encountering its
object, seizes on it, clings to it, gorges it, and produces revolutions that last: this longing
is the desire to contemplate one-self with satisfaction and complacency, forming of one's self
a pleasing, flattering image, and of trying to impress and plant this image in the minds of
others; in short, the ambition for a great self-esteem and of becoming greatly esteemed by
others.[3354] This sentiment, according to the quality of the person and according to circumstances,
gives birth sometimes to the noblest virtues and the most sublime devotion, and at other times
to the worst misdeeds and the most dangerous delirium: the man becomes transfigured, the sleeping
god or demon which both live within him is suddenly aroused. After 1789, both appear and both
together; from this date onward, says an eye-witness,[3355] and, during one quarter of a century,
"for most Frenchmen and in whatever class," the object of life is displaced; each has put it
outside of himself; from now on, the essential thing for everybody is "to have lived," or "to
have died for something," for an idea. A man becomes the slave of his idea, gives himself up
to it; consequently, he has experienced the intense satisfaction of considering himself a noble
being, of superior essence, foremost among the first, and of seeing himself regarded in that
light and proclaimed and glorified as such.--This keen, profound and intense pleasure was first
enjoyed by the French on listening to the Declaration of the Rights of Man; from then, and
in good faith, they felt themselves citizens, philosophers, the destroyers of prejudices and
wrongs, zealots in behalf of truth, liberty and equality, and then, when the war of 1792 came,
the defenders of the country, missionaries and propagators of every grand principle.[3356]--Towards
1796, principles began to recede in the background;[3357] in the ideal portrait which man makes
of himself the liberator and benefactor of mankind gradually gives way to the admirable and
admired hero capable of great achievements. This inner portrait of himself suffices for his
happiness for some years to come: vanity[3358] properly so called and a calculating ambition
are not the incentives of action; if he obtains promotion it is without asking for it; his
aspiration is simply to display himself, to be lavish of himself and live or die courageously
and gaily[3359] along with his comrade; to be considered, outside the service, the equal, friend
and brother of his subordinates and of his chiefs.[3360] Pillage, nevertheless, has begun;
for, a long continuance of war depraves the conqueror; brutality, indifference to property
and to life grows on him; if callous, or he wishes to become so, he eats, drinks and enjoys
the passing hour; if provident and wary, he scrapes together what he can or levies contributions
and hoards money.--Under the Empire, and especially towards 1808 and 1809, the ideal figure
degenerates still more; from now on, it is the successful or the coming officer, with his rank
and its accouterments, his gold-embroidered uniform and badges, exercising authority over so
many hundreds and thousands of men and enjoying a certain notable sum of regular salaries,
besides other gratifications bestowed on him by the master, along with the profits he can make
out of the vanquished.[3361] All that he now cares for is rapid promotion, and in any way,
noble or ignoble, at first, of course, on the main road, that is in straining himself and risking
his life, but likewise on a new road, in an affectation of zeal, in practicing and professing
blind obedience, in abandoning all political ideas, in devoting himself no longer to France,
but to the sovereign: sympathy for his comrades gives way to harsh rivalry; soldierly friendships,
under the anticipation of advancement, die out. A vacancy due to death is for the benefit of
survivors and they know it. "At Talavera," says Stendhal, "two officers stood together at their
battery, while a ball comes and the captain falls. 'Good,' says the lieutenant, 'now François
is dead and I shall be captain.' 'Not yet,' says François, who was only stunned and who gets
up on his feet. These two men were neither unfriendly nor inimical, only the lieutenant wanted
to rise a step higher in rank." And this shrewd observer adds: "Such was the furious egoism
then styled love of glory and which, under this title, the Emperor had communicated to the French."

On this slope the slide is rapid and abject. Each, at first, thinks of himself; the individual
makes of himself a center. The example, moreover, comes from above. Is it for France or for
himself that Napoleon works?[3362] So many immense enterprises, the conquest of Spain, the
expedition into Russia, the installation of his brothers and relations on new thrones, the
constant partition and rearrangement of Europe, all those incessant and more and more distant
wars, is it for the public good and common safety that he accumulates them? What does he himself
desire if not to push his fortunes still farther?--He is too much ambitious (trop ambitionnaire),
say his own soldiers;[3363] and yet they follow him to the last. "We have always marched along
with him," replied the old grenadiers,[3364] who had traversed Poland to penetrate into Russia;
"we couldn't abandon him this time and leave him alone by himself."--But others who see him
nearer by, those who stand first and next to him, do as he does; and, however high these have
mounted, they want to mount still higher, or, otherwise, to keep their places, or, at least,
provide for themselves and hold on to something substantial. Masséna has accumulated forty
millions and Talleyrand sixty;[3365] in case of a political crash the money remains. Soult
tried to have himself elected king of Portugal,[3366] and Bernadotte finds means to have himself
elected king of Sweden. After Leipsic, Murat bargains with the allies, and, to retain his Neapolitan
kingdom, he agrees to furnish a contingent against France; before the battle of Leipsic, Bernadotte
is with the allies and fights with them against France. In 1814, Bernadotte and Joseph, each
caring for himself, the former by intrigues and with the intriguers of the interior, also by
feeling his way with the foreign sovereigns while the latter, in the absence of Napoleon, by
"singular efforts" and "assiduities" beforehand with Marie Louise thinks of taking the place
of the falling emperor.[3367] Prince Eugene alone, or almost alone, among the great personalities
of the reign, is really loyal, his loyalty remaining always intact exempt from concealed motives
and above suspicion. Everywhere else, the coming crash or sinister rumors are heard or anticipated;
alarm descends from high places, spreads through the army and echoes along the lines of the
lowest ranks. In 1815, the soldier has full confidence in himself and in Napoleon; "but he
is moody, distrustful of his other leaders.... Every march incomprehensible to him makes him
uneasy and he thinks himself betrayed."[3368] At Waterloo, dragoons that pass him with their
swords drawn and old corporals shout to the Emperor that Soult and Vandamme, who are at this
moment about going into battle, are haranguing their troops against him or deserting him; that
General Dhénin, who has repulsed a charge of the enemy and whose thigh is fractured by a cannon-ball,
has just passed over to the enemy. The mechanism which, for fifteen years, has worked so well,
breaks down of itself through its own action; its cog-wheels have got out of gear; cracks show
themselves in the metal which seemed so sound; the divinations of popular instinct verify this;
the exaggerations of the popular imagination expand it and suddenly the whole machine rattles
down to the ground.

All this is due to Napoleon having introduced into it the craving for success as central motor,
as the universal main-spring, unscrupulous ambition, in short, a crude egoism, and in the first
place his own egoism, [3369] and this incentive, strained to excess,[3370] puts the machine
out of order and then ruins it. After him, under his successors, the same machinery is to work
in the same manner, and break down in the same way, at the expiration of a more or less extensive
period. Thus far, the longest of these periods has lasted less than twenty years.

*****

[Footnote 3301: "Most of the French provinces down to the time of Richelieu still possessed
a special representative body which consented to and levied the taxes; most of these bodies
were supported by the all-powerful minister and replaced by intendants who, from that time
on, administered, or rather exhausted, the country, divided into thirty-two generalities. A
few provinces, however, Brittany, Burgundy, Languedoc, a part of Provence, Flanders, Artois,
and some small districts in the Pyrenees kept their old representative body and were called
pays d'état, whilst other provinces were designated, by a strange abuse of language, under
the name of pays d'élection." (Translated from" Madame de Staël et son Temps," vol. I., p.
38.) TR.]

[Footnote 3302: Cf. on the antiquity of this sort of mind, evident from the beginning of society
and of French literature, my "History of English Literature," vol. I., and "La Fontaine et
ses fables," pp.10 to 13.]

[Footnote 3303: In relation to this sentiment, read La Fontaine's fable of "The Rat and the
Elephant." La Fontaine fully comprehended its social and psychological bearing. "To believe
one's self an important personage is very common in France.... A childish vanity is peculiar
to us. The Spaniards are vain, but in another way. It is specially a French weakness."]

[Footnote 3304: Beugnot, "Mémoires," I., 317. "This equality which is now our dominant passion
is not the noble kindly sentiment that affords delight by honoring one's self in honoring one's
fellow, and in feeling at ease in all social relationships; no, it is an aversion to every
kind of superiority, a fear lest a prominent position may be lost; this equality tends in no
way to raise up what is kept down, but to prevent any elevation whatever."]

[Footnote 3305: D'Haussonville, "l'Église romaine et le Premier Empire," I., chs X. and XI.]

[Footnote 3306: Decree of March 17, 1808, on the organization of the Israelite cult. The members
of the Israelite consistories and the rabbis must be accepted by the government the same as
the ministers of the other cults; but their salary, which is fixed, must be provided by the
Israelites of the conscription; the State does not pay this, the same as with curés or pastors.
This is not done until under the monarchy of July, when the assimilation of the Israelite with
the other Christian cults is effected.]

[Footnote 3307: "Travels in France during the years 1814 and 1815 "(Edinburgh, 1806) I., 176.
"The nobility, the great landed proprietors, the yeomanry, the lesser farmers, all of the intermediate
ranks who might oppose a check to the power of a tyrannical prince, are nearly annihilated."--Ibid.,
236. "Scarcely an intermediate rank was to be found in the nation between the sovereign and
the peasant."--Ibid., II. 239. "The better class of the inhabitants of the cities, whether
traders and manufacturers or the bourgeoisie of France, are those who were the most decided
enemies of Bonaparte."]

[Footnote 3308: Napoleon, desirous of forming an opinion of him, said to Roederer, "Send me
his books." "But," said Roederer, "he is only a translator." "No matter," replied Napoleon,
"I will read his prefaces,"]

[Footnote 3309: Cf. the "Dictionnaire biographique," published at Leipsic, 1806-1808 (by Eymory)
4 vols., and the "Almanach impérial" for 1807 to 1812; many other historic names are found
there, and among these the ladies of the palace. In 1810, Comte de la Rochefoucauld is ambassador
to Holland and Comte de Mercy-Argenteau ambassador to Bavaria.]

[Footnote 3310: "The Revolution," II., 323. (Ed. Laffont I. 773, note 1)]

[Footnote 3311: "The Revolution," vol. III., PP. 318~322. (Ed. Laff. II. pp. 237-240.)]

[Footnote 3312: "The Ancient Régime," pp. 116-119, 128. (Ed. Laff. I. pp. 90-92, 100-101.)]

[Footnote 3313: De Tilly, "Mémoires," I., 153. "The difference between the tone and language
of the court and that of the city was about as great as that between Paris and the provinces."]

[Footnote 3314: Hence the lack of success of the Maupeou parliament.]

[Footnote 3315: See the collections of songs previous to the Revolution, especially military
songs such as "Malgré la bataille,"--"Dans les gardes françaises," etc.--At the time of the
Restoration, the pastoral or gallant songs of Florian, Bouffiers and Berquin were still sung
in bourgeois families, each person, young or old, man or woman, singing one at the dessert.
This undercurrent of gayety, geniality and amiability lasted throughout the Revolution and
the Empire. ("Travels through the South of France, 1807 and 1808," p.132, by Lieutenant-Colonel
Pinkney, of the United States.) "I must once for all say that the Memoirs of Marmontel are
founded in nature." He cites a great many facts in proof of this, and testifies in all classes
to a prompt and social nature, a natural benevolence or habitual civility which leads them
instinctively, and not unfrequently impertinently, into acts of kindness and consideration."--The
same impression is produced on comparing the engravings, fashion-plates, light subjects and
caricatures of this period with those of the present epoch. The malicious sentiment begins
only with Béranger; and yet his early pieces ("Le Roi d'Yvetot," "le Sénateur") display the
light air, accent and happy, instead of venomous, malice of the old song. "I am sure that his
imagination was more taken with Ghengis-Khan than with Caesar."]

[Footnote 3319: "The Revolution," II., 12, 22. (Laff. I. pp. 574, 582.) (Articles by Mailet-Dupan,
"Mercure de France," Dec. 30, 1791, and April 7, 1792.)--Napoleon, "Mémorial" (Sept. 3, 1816),
thinks so too and states the essential characteristic of the Revolution. This consisted in
"telling everybody who held office, every one who had a place or a fortune: 'Get out.'"]

[Footnote 3320: Roederer, III., 534 (January 1809, on Normandy), "Children in every situation
think of becoming soldiers to get the cross (legion of honor), and the cross secures the chevalier.
The desire of distinction, of passing ahead of some one else, is a national sentiment."]

[Footnote 3321: "The Revolution," II., 248. (Laff. I. p. 747.)]

[Footnote 3322: Napoleon, "Mémoires "(edited by M. de Montholon, III., 11-19), on the extraordinary
ignorance of Cartaux.--Ibid., 23, on Doppet's incapacity, the successor of Cartaux.]

[Footnote 3323: "The Revolution," III., 310. (Laff. II. pp. 178-179.)]

[Footnote 3324: They called themselves exclusives under the Directory.--Cf. "The Revolution,
II.", 23, 187, 196, 245, 297-303, 340-351, 354; book III., ch, 2 and 3, and book IV. (Ed. Laff.
I. pp. 582, 701, pp. 709-710, 745, 782-787, 821-823 and in Vol. II. pp. 131-167, pp. 167-215
and pp 311-357.)]

[Footnote 3325: The declaration of Human Rights in 1789 stated that: "art. 1st, § 5. Tous les
citoyens sont egalement admissible aux emplois publics. Les peuples ne connaissent d'autres
motifs de préference, dans élections, que les vertus et les talents." Virtue in French is virtue
in English while talent in French must be translated as being both talent and skill. (SR.)]

[Footnote 3326: Madame de Rémusat, passim.--Roederer, III., 538 (January 1809). (Words of Napoleon)
"I took a few of the old court into my household. They remained two years without speaking
to me and six months without seeing me... I don't like them--they are no good for anything--their
conversation is disagreeable to me."]

[Footnote 3327: Napoléon, "Mémoires."]

[Footnote 3328: Roederer, "Mémoires."]

[Footnote 3329: Taine uses the French expression "esprit" which might both mean spirit, wit,
mind or sense.]

[Footnote 3330: Roederer, "Mémoires, "III., 281. "Men, under his government, who had hitherto
been considered incapable are made useful; men hitherto considered distinguished found themselves
mixed in with the crowd; men hitherto regarded as the pillars of the State found themselves
useless ... An ass or a knave need never be ambitious to approach Bonaparte, they will make
nothing out of him."]

[Footnote 3331: Fiévée, "Correspondance," III., 33.--Roederer, III., 381.]

[Footnote 3332: Beugnot, "Mémoires," II., 372.]

[Footnote 3333: Lefebvre, a former sergeant in the French guards, who became marshal of the
empire and Duc de Dantzig, with 150,000 francs a year, received the visit of a comrade who,
instead of having mounted the ladder as he had done, had remained at the bottom of it. The
marshal, a fine fellow, welcomed his comrade heartily, and showed him over his hotel. The visitor's
face gradually grew somber, and bitter words escaped from his lips; he often murmured, "Ah,
how lucky you are!"--At last, the marshal, impatient, said to him, "Well, I will make all this
over to you on one condition."--"What is it?"--"You must go down into the court. I will post
two grenadiers at the window with their guns, and they shall fire at you. If they miss, you
shall have the hotel and everything in it."--"Ah, no, thanks!"--"My friend, more shots than
these have been fired at me and nearer by!"]

[Footnote 3334: Roederer, III., 332 (Aug. 2, 1800).]

[Footnote 3335: Papers of Maine de Biran. (Note communicated by M. Naville.) Letter of Baron
Maurice, prefect of Dordogne, to M. Maine de Biran, sub-prefect of Bergerac, transmitting to
him by order of the minister of the interior a blank form to be filled up by him presenting
the "Statistics of young ladies belonging to the most notable families of the arrondissement."
The form annexed contained several columns, one for names and given names, others for the future
inheritance of real and personal estate, etc. A clever or energetic prefect, provided with
this list, was able and was expected to take an active part in marriages and see that all the
large dowries were appropriated on the right side.--"Memoires de Madame de------," part 3rd,
ch. VIII., p. 154. (These very instructive memoirs by a very sincere and judicious person are
still unpublished. I am not authorized to give the name of the author.) "It was at this time
that the emperor took it into his head to marry as he saw fit the young girls who had more
than 50,000 livres rental." A rich heiress of Lyons, intended for M. Jules de Polignac, is
thus wedded to M. de Marboeuf. M. d'Aligre, by dint of address and celerity, evades for his
daughter first M. de Caulaincourt and then M. de Faudoas, brother-in-law to Savary, and in
stead weds her to M. de Pommereu.--Baron de Vitrolles, Mémoires, I. 19. (His daughter was designated
by the prefect of the Basses-Alpes.)--Comte Joseph d'Estourmel, "Souvenirs de France et d'Italie,"
239. (Details of this description of the young ladies to be married and the circular from the
duke de Rovigo, minister of police.) the eight column of the form was "reserved to describe
the physical charms and deformities, the talents, the conduct and the religious principles
of each of the young ladies."]

[Footnote 3336: "Statistiques des Préfets." (Doubs, by Debry, p. 60; Meurthe, by Marquis, p.
115, Ain, by Bossi, p.240.)]

[Footnote 3337: "Statistique de l'Ain," by Bossi, p. 1808. From 1140 in 1801, the number of
employees and others under state pay amounts to 1771 in 1806. This increase is attributed by
the prefect to causes just stated.]

[Footnote 3338: Napoleon, "Correspondance." (Note of April 11, 1811.) "There will always be
at Hamburg, Bremen and Lubeck from 8,000 to 10,000 French, either employees or gendarmes, in
the customs and depots."]

[Footnote 3339: One officer may be counted to every 50 men in the infantry; in the cavalry
1 officer to every 25 or 30 men,--This ratio of one officer to every fifty men indicates that,
among the 1,700,000 men who perished between 1804 and 1815, there were 24,000 officers, which
gives about 3,000 vacancies per annum, to which must be added the vacancies due to the wounded,
disabled and and retired. It must be noted, moreover, that the death or retirement of an officer
above the grade of second-lieutenant makes several vacancies, vacancies which are more numerous
the higher the rank. When a captain is killed there are three promotions and so on.]

[Footnote 3340: "The Revolution" III., 335. (Laff. II. p. 250)--Already, in 1795, the need
of competent and specialized men was so great that the government sought, even among royalists,
for financial and diplomatic heads of these services; it made offers to M. Dufresne and to
M. de Rayneval.--Ib. 406.--(Cf. "Mémoires" by Gaudin, Miot de Melito and Mollien.)]

[Footnote 3341: Words of Bouquier, reporter of the law on education (session of the Convention,
Frimaire 22, year II).]

[Footnote 3342: The reader is recommended to do as I have done and consult biographies on point,
also the souvenirs of his grandparents. (H.A.Taine.)]

[Footnote 3343: Thibaudeau, "Mémoires sur la Consulat," p.88. (Exposition of motives by Roederer
to the corps Législatif, Floréal 25, year X.) "After all, it is the creation of a new currency
of quite different value from that which issues from the public treasury, a currency of unchangeable
worth and of an inexhaustible mine, since it lies in French honor; a currency which can solely
reward actions regarded as above any recompense."]

[Footnote 3344: Thibaudeau, ibid., 83. (Address by the First Consul to the council of State,
Floréal 14, year X.)--Also "Mémorial": "Old and corrupt nations are not governed the same as
young and virtuous ones; sacrifices have to be made to interest, to enjoyments, to vanity.
This is the secret of the return to monarchical forms, to titles. crosses, ribbons, harmless
baubles suited to exciting the respect of the multitude while at the same time enforcing self-respect."]

[Footnote 3345: "La Légion d'honneur," by M. Mazas, passim. Details on the nomination ceremonials.
"The veritable date was July 15th, as the 14th was Sunday. Augereau and about sixty officers,
"bad fellows" who disliked the mass, refused to go into the chapel and remained outside in
the court."]

[Footnote 3346: Several generals, Lecourbe, Souham, etc., were excluded as being too republican
or suspect and hostile. Lemercier, Ducis, Delille, and Lafayette refused. Admiral Truguet,
through pique and discontent, had at first declined the grade of grand-officer, but finally
changed his mind and became at first commander and then grand-officer.]

[Footnote 3347: "Les Cahiers du capitaine Coignet," passim and pp. 95, 145. "When the ceremony
was over, handsome women who could get at me to examine my cross, asked me if they might give
me a kiss."--At the Palais Royal the proprietor of a café says to him: "Order whatever you
want, the Legion of Honor is welcome to anything."]

[Footnote 3348: Mazas, ibid., p. 413.--Edmond Blanc, "Napoléon, ses institutions civiles et
administratives," p. 279.--The number of decorated, at first, was to be 6,000. In 1806, the
emperor had nominated 14,500, and taking his entire reign, until his fall, about 48,000. The
real force of legionaries, however, then living does not surpass at this time 30,000, of which
only 1,200 are in civil careers. At the présent time, December 1, 1888 (documents furnished
by the records of the Légion d'honneur), there are 52.915 decorated persons, of which 31,757
are soldiers and 21,158 civilians. Under the empire there was in all 1 cross to every 750 Frenchmen;
at that time, out of 50 crosses there were 2 for civil services, while in our day there are
nearly 20. (QUID informs us that on 30-11-1994 the strength amounted to 207,390 persons. SR.)]

[Footnote 3349: Edmond Blanc, ibid., 276-299, 325 and 326. (List of titles of prince and duke
conferred by the emperor, and of gifts of 100,000 francs rental or of above that sum.)]

[Footnote 3350: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," III., 363.]

[Footnote 3351: Napoleon, "Mémoires."]

[Footnote 3352: Compare with the Brothers Grimm's fairytale: "The Fisherman and his Wife."]

[Footnote 3353: Thiers, "Histoire du Consulat et de l'Empire," V. III., p. 210.]

[Footnote 3354: Thiers, ibid., p.195 (October 1806). Napoleon, in one of his bulletins, had
mentioned Murat's cavalry alone, omitting to mention the infantry of Lannes, which behaved
as well. Lannes, disappointed, did not dare read this bulletin to his men, and spoke to the
emperor about it. 'What reward can they look for if they don't find their names published by
the hundred-tongued voice of Fame which is under your control!" Napoleon replies: "You and
your men are children--glory enough for all!... One of these days your turn will come in the
bulletins of the grand army." Lannes reads this to his troops on the great square of Stettin
and it is received with outbursts of enthusiasm.]

[Footnote 3355: Madame de Rémusat. III., 129.]

[Footnote 3356: "The Revolution," pp. 356-358. (Laff. I. pp. 825-826.)--Marmont, "Mémoires,"
I. 122. (Letter to his mother, January 12, 1795.) "Behold your son zealously fulfilling his
duties, deserving of his country and serving the republic.... We should not be worthy of liberty
if we did nothing to obtain it."]

[Footnote 3357: Compare the "Journal du sergent Fricasse," and "les Cahiers du capitaine Coignet."
Fricasse is a volunteer who enlists in the defence of the country; Coignet is a conscript ambitious
of distinguishing himself, and he says to his masters: "I promise to come back with the fusil
d'honneur or I shall be dead."]

[Footnote 3358: Marmont, I., 186, 282, 296. (In Italy, 1796.) "At this epoch, our ambition
was quite secondary; we were solely concerned about our duties and amusements. The frankest
and most cordial union existed amongst us all.... No sentiment of envy, no low passion found
room in our breasts. (Then) what excitement, what grandeur, what hopes and what gayety!...
Each had a presentiment of an illimitable future and yet entertained no idea of personal ambition
or calculation."--George Sand, "Histoire de ma vie." (Correspondence of her father, Commander
Dupin.)--Stendhal, "Vie de Napoléon." "At this epoch (1796), nobody in the army had any ambition.
I have known officers to refuse promotion so as not to quit their regiment or their mistress."]

[Footnote 3359: Roederer, III., 556. (Burgos, April 9, 1809, conversation with General Lasalle
written down the same evening.) "You pass through Paris?" "Yes, it's the shortest way. I shall
get there at five in the morning; I shall order a pair of boots, get my wife with child and
then leave for Germany."--Roederer remarks to him that one risks one's life and fights for
the sake of promotion and to profit by rising in the world. "No, not at all. One takes pleasure
in it. One enjoys fighting; it is pleasure enough in itself to fight! You are in the midst
of the uproar, of the action, of the smoke. And then, on acquiring reputation you have had
the fun of making it. When you have got your fortune you know that your wife and children won't
suffer. That is enough. As for myself, I could die to-morrow." (The details of this conversation
are admirable; no document gives a better idea of the officer of the epoch.)]

[Footnote 3360: Compare with the idea of an ideal Chaver (kibbutznik).: Melford E. Spiro, wrote
"Kibbutz. Venture in Utopia." 60 and described how the Israeli kibbutzim as early as 1917 wanted
the ideal kibbutzim to be:

     Loyal to his people
     A brother to his fellows
     A man of truth
     A helpful and dependable brother
     A lover of nature
     Obedient to the orders of his leaders
     Joyful and gay
     Economical and generous
     A man of courage
     Pure in thoughts, words, and deeds (opposition to drinking,
          smoking and sexual relationships).]

[Footnote 3361: Balzac has closely studied and admirably portrayed this type in a "Ménage de
Garçon."--See other similar characters in Mérimée ("Les Mécontens," and "les Espagnols en Danemark");
in Stendhal ("le Chasseur vert"). I knew five or six of them in my youth.]

[Footnote 3362: Words of Marshal Marmont: "So long as he declared 'Everything for France,'
I served him enthusiastically; when he said, 'France and myself' I served him zealously; when
he said, 'myself and France,' I served him with devotion. It is only when he said, 'Myself
without France,' that I left him."]

[Footnote 3363: An expression found by Joseph de Maistre.]

[Footnote 3364: An expression heard by Mickiewicz in his childhood.]

[Footnote 3365: These sums are given, the former by Mérimée and the latter by Sainte--Beuve.]

[Footnote 3366: M. de Champagny "Souvenirs," III., 183. Napoleon, passing his marshals in review,
said to him (1811): "None of them can take my place in the command of my armies; some are without
the talent, and others would carry on war for their own benefit. Didn't that burly Soult want
to be king of Portugal?" "Well, sire, war need not be carried on any longer." "Yes, but how
maintain my army? IV., 112. (According to the papers of Savary, many of Napoleon's letters
and statements by M. de Saint-Aignan.)]

[Footnote 3368: "Mémorial," Aug.26, 1816.]

[Footnote 3369: The driving motor of unlimited capitalism as well, a driving force only to
be tempered by the law and by a desire for social admiration of different kinds. (SR.)]

[Footnote 3370: "Travels in France during the years 1814 and 1815." (Edinburgh, 1816, 2 vols.)--The
author, a very good observer, thus sums up the principle of the system: "To give active employment
to all men of talent and enterprise." There is no other condition: "Birth, education, moral
character were completely set aside."--Hence the general defect of the system. "The French
have literally no idea of any duties which they must voluntarily, without the prospect of reward,
undertake for their country.

I. Human Incentives.

     The two Stimuli of human action.--The egoistic instinct and
     the social instinct.--Motives for not weakening the social
     instinct.--Influence on society of the law it prescribes.
     --The clauses of a statute depend on the legislator who adopts
     or imposes them.--Conditions of a good statute.--It favors
     the social instinct.--Different for different societies.
     --Determined by the peculiar and permanent traits of the
     society it governs.--Capital defect of the statute under the
     new régime.

So long as a man takes an interest only in himself, in his own fortune, in his own advancement,
in his own success, his interests are trivial: all that is, like himself, of little importance
and of short duration. Alongside of the small boat which he steers so carefully there are thousands
and millions of others of like it; none of them are worth much, and his own is not worth more.
However well he may have provisioned and sailed it, it will always remain what it is, slight
and fragile; in vain will he hoist his flags, decorate it, and shove ahead to get the first
place; in three steps he has reached its length. However well he handles and maintains it,
in a few years it leaks; sooner or later it crumbles and sinks, and with it goes all his effort.
Is it reasonable to work so hard for this, and is so slight an object worth so great an effort?

Fortunately, man has, for a better placement of his effort, other aims, more vast and more
substantial: a family, a commune, a church, a country, all the associations of which he is
or becomes a member, all the collective undertakings in behalf of science, education, and charity,
of local or general utility, most of them provided with legal statutes and organized as corporations
or even as a legal entity. They are as well defined and protected as he is, but more precious
and more viable: for they are of service to a large number of men and last for ever. Some,
even, have a secular history, and their age predicts their longevity. In the countless fleet
of boats which so constantly sink, and which are so constantly replaced by others, they last
like top rated liners. The men from the flotilla now and then sign on these large vessels,
and the result of their labor is not, as it is at home, futile or short-lived; it will remain
above the surface after he and his boat have disappeared. It has entered into the common mass
of work which owes its protection to its mass; undoubtedly the portion he contributes may be
worked over again later on; but its substance remains, and often also its form:

* like a precept of Jesus,

* like Archimedes' theorem

which rests a definite acquisition, intact and permanently fixed for two thousand years, immortal
from the first day.--Consequently, the individual may take an interest, no longer merely in
his own boat, but again in some ship, in this or that particular one, in this or that association
or community, according to his preferences and his aptitudes, according to attractiveness,
proximity, and convenience of access, all of which is a new motivation for his activities,
opposing his egoism, which, powerful as it may be, may still be overcome, since a soul might
be very generous or qualified by long and special discipline. Out of this issues every sacrifice,
the surrender of one's-self to one's work or to a cause,

* the devotion of the sister of charity or of the missionary,

* the abnegation of the scientist who buries himself for twenty years in the minutia of a thankless
task,

* the heroism of the explorer who risks himself on a desert or among savages,

* the courage of the soldier who stakes his life in defense of his flag.

But these cases are rare; with the mass of men, and in most of their actions, personal interest
prevails against common interest, while against the egoistic instinct the social instinct is
feeble. Hence the danger of weakening this. The temptation of the individual to prefer his
own boat to the large ship is only too great; if it is desirable for him to go aboard and work
there, he must be provided with the facilities and motives which prompt him to go aboard and
do the work; at the very least, he must not be deprived of them. Now, that depends on the State,
a sort of central flag-ship, the only one that is armed, and which has all subordinate vessels
under its guns; for, whatever the society may be, provincial or municipal, educational or charitable,
religious or laic, it is the State which sanctions or adopts its statues, good or bad, and
which, by its laws, tribunals, and police, insures their execution, whether rigidly or carelessly.
Therefore, on this point, it is responsible; it must adopt or impose the proper statute, the
most suitable social form for strengthening the social instinct, for maintaining disinterested
zeal, for the encouragement of voluntary and gratuitous labor.

This form, of course, differs according to different societies; the same charter or constitution
is not proper for a church system and a commune, nor for a Protestant church and a Catholic
church, nor for a town of one hundred thousand inhabitants and a village of five hundred. Each
association has its own peculiar and distinctive features, which grade it according to its
kind, according to its spiritual or temporal aims, according to its liberal or authoritative
spirit, according to is small or large dimensions, according to the simplicity or complexity
of its affairs, according to the capacity or incapacity of its members: features which within
it are both efficient and permanent; whatever the legislator may do, these will remain and
will regulate all activity. Thus let him, in each case, keep this in mind. But in all cases
his office is the same; always, on drawing up and countersigning a statute, he intervenes in
the coming conflict between the social instinct and the egoistic instinct; every provision
which he enacts will contribute, nearby or at a distance, to the final ascendancy of the former
or of the latter. Now, the legislator the natural ally of the former, for the former is his
indispensable auxiliary. In every work or enterprise of public utility, if the legislator is
the external promoter, social instinct is the internal promoter; and on the inner spring becoming
weak or breaking, the impulsion from outside remains without effect. Hence it is that, if the
legislator would accomplish anything, otherwise than on paper, he must, before any object or
interest, concern himself with the social instinct[4101]; thus preserving and humoring it;
find room for it and its usefulness; let it have full play; getting all the service it is capable
of rendering, and especially not twist or release it.--In this respect, any blunder might prove
disastrous; and in every statute for each society, for each of the human vessels which gather
together and serve as a retinue of individual vessels, there are two capital errors. On the
one hand, if the statute, in fact and practically, is or becomes too grossly unjust, if the
rights and benefits which it confers are not compensated by the duties and obligations it imposes;
if it multiplies excessive burdens for some and sinecures for others; if, at last, the exploited
individual discovers that he is overcharged beyond his due,--thereafter he refuses on his own
to add voluntarily to his load. Let others, let the favored and the privileged bear the gratuitous,
extra weight. Far from stepping forward and offering his shoulders, he gets out of the way,
hides himself, and lightens his load as much as he can; he even rebels when he has a chance,
and violently casts off every legal burden, be it tax or due of any kind. Thus did the ancient
régime perish.--On the other hand, if the statute withdraws the management of the ship from
those who are concerned; if, on this vessel, which belongs to them, it permanently installs
a foreign crew, which assumes and exercises all command, then the owner of the vessel, reduced
to the humble condition of a mere subject and quiescent taxpayer, will no longer feel concerned.
Since the intruders exercise all authority, let them have all the trouble; the working of the
ship concerns them and not him; he looks on as a spectator, without any idea of lending a hand;
he folds his arms, remains idle, and becomes critical.--Against the first defect, the new régime
is on its guard: there must be neither the preferred nor the disgraced, neither favors nor
exemptions, neither exclusions nor releases, no more misappropriation, embezzlement, or robbery,
not alone in the State, but elsewhere in any direction,--in the department, in the commune,
in the Church, or in educational and benevolent institutions. It excels in practicing distributive
justice. The second defect is its hidden flaw: the legislator having introduced this into all
local and special statutes, its effects differ according to different societies; but all these
effects converge, paralyzing in the nation the best half of the soul, and, worse still, to
leading the will astray and perverting the public mind, transforming generous impulses into
evil outbursts, and organizing lasting inertia, ennui, discontent, discord, feebleness, and
sterility.[4102]

II. Local Community.

     Local societies.--Their principal and distinctive
     character.--Their type on a small scale.--A dwelling-house
     in Annecy or Grenoble.--Compulsory association of its
     inmates.--Its object and limits.--Private in character.

Let us first consider local society whether a province, a department, or a county. For the
past ten years (1789-99), the legislator has unceasingly deformed and assaulted. On his side,
he refuses to open his eyes; preoccupied with theories, he will not recognize it for what it
is in reality, a society of a distinct species, different from the State, with its own peculiar
aims, its limits marked out, its members prescribed, its statutes drawn up, everything formed
and defined beforehand. As it is local, it is founded on the greater or less proximity of its
habitations. Thus, to comprehend it, we must take a case in which this proximity is greatest
that of certain houses in some of our southeastern towns, as, for example, Grenoble and Annecy.
Here, a house often belongs to several distinct owners, each possessing his story, or apartment
on a story, one owning the cellar and another the attic, each enjoying all the rights of property
over his portion, the right of renting it, selling it, bequeathing it, and mortgaging it, but
all holding it in common for the maintenance of the roof and the main walls.--Evidently, their
association is not a free one; willingly or not, each forms a member of it, for, willingly
or not, each benefits or suffers through the good or bad state of the roof and the principal
walls: therefore, all must furnish their quota of the indispensable expenses; even a majority
of votes would not rid them of these; one claimant alone would suffice to hold them responsible;
they have no right to impose on him the danger which they accept for themselves, nor to shirk
expenses by which they profit as well as himself. Consequently, on the report of an expert,
the magistrate interferes, and, willingly or not, the repairs are made; then, willingly or
not, both by custom and in law, each pays his quote, calculated according to the locative value
of the portion belonging to him.--But here his obligations cease. In fact as in law, the community
(of property) is restricted; the associates take good care not to extend this, not to pursue
other aims at the same time, not to add to their primitive and natural purpose a different
and supplementary purpose, not to devote one room to a Christian chapel for the residents of
the house, another room for a kindergarten for the children that live in it, and a side room
to a small hospital for those who fall ill; especially, they do not admit that a tax may be
imposed for these purposes and each of them be subject to a proportional increase of assessment
at so many additional centimes per franc.[4103] For, if the proprietor of the ground-floor
is an Israelite, the proprietor of a room on the second story is a bachelor, the proprietor
of the fine suite of rooms on the first story is rich, and has a doctor visit him at the house,
these must pay for a service for which they get no return.--For the same reason, their association
remains private; it does not form part of the public domain; they alone are interested in it;
if the State let us use its tribunals and officials, it is the same as it is with ordinary
private individuals. It would be unjust both against it and against itself if it would exclude
or exempting it from common right, if it put it on its administrative rolls. It would deform
and disrupt its work if it interfered with its independence, if added to its functions or to
its obligations. It is not under its tutelage, obliged to submit its accounts to the prefect;
it delegates no powers and confers no right of justice, or police; in short, it is neither
its pupil nor its agent. Such is the lien which permanent proximity establishes between men;
we see that it is of a singular species: neither in fact, nor in law, can the associates free
themselves from it; solely because they are neighbors, they form a community for certain indivisible
or jointly owned things, an involuntary and obligatory community. To make amends, and even
owing to this, I mean through institution and in the natural order of things, their community
is limited, and limited in two ways, restricted to its object and restricted to its members,
reduced to matters of which proprietorship or enjoyment is forcibly in common, and reserved
to inhabitants who, on account of situation and fixed residence, possess this enjoyment or
this property.i

III. Essential Public Local Works.

     Analysis of other local societies, commune, department, or
     province.--Common interests which necessitate local action.
     --Two objects in view: care of public roads and means of
     protection against spreading calamities.--Why collaboration
     is an obligation.--Neighbors involuntarily subject to a
     common bond on account of proximity.--Willingly or not each
     shares in its benefits.--What portion of the expense belongs
     to each.--Equal advantages for each.--The unequal and
     proportionate advantages for each in his private expenses,
     industrial or commercial gains, and in the locative value of
     his real estate.--Each person's quota of expense according
     to his equal and proportionate share in advantages.

All local societies are of this kind, each limited to a certain territory and included with
others like it inside a larger area, each possessing two budgets depending on whether it is
a distinct body or member of a larger corporation, each, from the commune to the department
or province, instituted on a basis of interests which make them jointly but involuntarily liable.--There
are two of these important interests which, as in the Annecy building, elude human arbitrariness,
which demand common action and distribution of the expense, because, as in the Annecy building,
they are the inevitable results of physical proximity:

First, comes care for the public highways, by land or by water, river navigation, canals, towing-paths,
bridges, streets, public squares, by-roads, along with the more or less optional and gradual
improvements which public roads demand or prescribe, such as their laying-out, sidewalks, paving,
sweeping, lighting, drainage, sewers, rolling, ditches, leveling, embankments, and other engineering
works, which establish or increase safety and convenience in circulation, with facilities for
and dispatch in transportation.

Next, comes protection against the spread of calamities, such as fires, inundations, contagious
diseases, epidemics, along with the more or less optional and remote precautions which this
protection exacts or recommends, night watchers in Russia, dikes in Holland, levees in the
valleys of the Po and the Loire, cemeteries and regulations for interment, cleanliness of the
streets, ventilation of holes and corners, drainage of marshes, hydrants, and supplies of drinkable
water, disinfecting of contaminated areas, and other preventive or necessary hygienic measures
which remove or prevent insalubrities growing out of neighborhood or contact.

All this has to be provided for, and the enterprise, if not wholly and in its developments,
at least in itself and in what is necessary, imposes itself, collectively, on all the inhabitants
of the conscription, from the highest to the lowest. For, in the absence of a public road,
none of them can do his daily work, travel about, or even leave his premises; while transportation
ceases and trade is suspended; hence, commerce and other pursuits languish, industry is arrested,
agriculture becomes impracticable or fruitless; the fields are no longer cultivated; while
provisions, food, including bread,[4104] everything is wanting; the dwellings becoming uninhabitable,
more so than the Annecy houses when the roofs fall in and let in the rain.--On the other hand,
for lack of protection against calamities, these get a free rein: the day arrives when an equinoctial
tide submerges the flat coastal area, when the river overflows and devastates the countryside,
when the conflagration spreads, when small-pox and the cholera reach a contagious point, and
life is in danger, far more seriously imperiled than when, in the Annecy domicile, the main
walls threaten to tumble down.[4105]

Undoubtedly, I can personally accept this miserable condition of things, resign myself to it,
and consent, as far as I am concerned, to shut myself up within my own walls, to fast there,
and run the risk, more or less imminent, of being drowned, burnt, or poisoned; but I have no
right to condemn another to do this, nor to refuse my contribution to a protection by which
I am to profit. As to my share of the expense it is fixed beforehand, and fixed through my
share in the benefit:

Whoever receives, owes, and in proportion to what he receives;

such is an equitable exchange; no society is prosperous and healthy without this; it is essential
that, for each member of it, the duties should exactly compensate the advantages, and that
the two sides of the scale should balance. In the local community, the care taken of public
roads and the precautions taken against natural calamities are useful in two ways: one, which
especially improves the condition of persons, and the other, which especially improves the
condition of things. The first is equal and the same for all. The poor man, quite as much as
the rich one, needs to go and come and to look after his affairs; he uses the street, pavement,
sidewalks, bridges, highways, and public fountains quite as much; he equally benefits by the
sweeping and lighting of the public gardens. It may be claimed that, in certain respects, he
derives more benefits from all this; for he suffers sooner and more keenly when bad roads stop
transportation, arrest labor, and increase the cost of food; he is more subject to contagion,
to epidemics, to all physical ills; in case of a fire, the risks of a workman in his garret,
at the top of steep, narrow stairs, are greater than those of the opulent proprietor on the
first story, in a mansion provided with a broad range of steps. In case of inundation, the
danger is more suddenly mortal for the humble villager, in his fragile tenement, than for the
gentleman farmer in his massive constructions. Accordingly, under this heading, the poor man
owes as much as the rich one; the rich man, at least, owes no more than the poor one; if, each
year, the poor man cannot pay but one franc, the rich one, each year, should not pay more than
that sum likewise.--The second advantage, on the contrary, is not equal for all, but more or
less great for each, according to what he spends on the spot, according to his industrial or
commercial gains, and according to his local income. Indeed, the more perfect the public highway
is, the more are the necessities and conveniences of life; whatever is agreeable and useful,
even distant and remote, more within reach, and at my disposition, in my very hands, I enjoy
it to the utmost, the measure of my enjoyment of it being the importance of my purchases, everything
I consume, in short, my home expenditure.[4106] If I am, besides, industrial or in commerce,
the state of the public highway affects me even more; for my transportation, more or less costly,
difficult and slow, depends on that, and next, the receipt of my raw materials and goods, the
sale of my manufactures, the dispatch of my merchandise, bought and sold, while the measure
of this special interest, so direct and so intense, is the annual sum-total of my business,
or, more strictly speaking, the probable sum of my profits.[4107] If, finally, I own real estate,
a house or land, its locative value increases or diminishes according to the salubrity and
convenience of its site, together with its facilities for cultivating, selling, and distributing
its crops, for its various outlets, for its security against floods and fires, and, after this,
to improvements in public transit, and to the collective works which protect both soil and
buildings against natural calamities.[4108] It follows that the inhabitant who benefits from
these services, owes a second contribution, greater or lesser according to the greater or lesser
advantage which he derives from them.

IV. Local associations.

     Local society, thus constituted, is a collective legal
     entity.--The sphere of its initiation and action.--Its
     relation to the State.--Distinction between the private and
     the public domain.

Such is in itself local society and, with or without the legislator's permission, we find it
to be a private syndicate,[4109] analogous to many others.[4110] Whether communal or departmental,
it concerns, combines, and serves none but the inhabitants of one circumscription; its success
or failure does not interest the nation, unless indirectly, and through a remote reaction,
similar to the slight effect which, for good or ill, the health or sickness of one Frenchman
produces on the mass of Frenchmen. That which directly and fully affects a local society is
felt only by that society, the same as that which affects a private individual is felt only
by him; it is a close corporation, and belongs to itself within its physical limits, the same
as he, in his, belongs to himself; like him, then, it is an individual, less simple, but no
less real, a human combination, endowed with reason and will, responsible for its acts, capable
of wronging and being wronged; in brief, a legal entity. Such, in fact, it is, and, through
the explicit declaration of the legislator, who constitutes it a legal entity, capable of possessing,
acquiring, and contracting, and of prosecuting in the courts of law: he likewise confers on
the eighty-six departments and on the thirty-six thousand communes all the legal capacities
and obligations of an ordinary individual. The State, consequently, in relationship to them
and to all collective persons, is what it is with respect to a private individual, neither
more nor less; its title to intervene between them is not different. As justiciary, it owes
them justice the same as to private persons, nothing more or less; only to render this to them,
it has more to do, for they are composite and complex. By virtue even of its mandate, it is
bound to enter their domiciles in the performance of its duty, to maintain probity and to prevent
disorder, to protect there not alone the governed against the governors and the governors against
the governed, but again the community, which is lasting, against its directors, who are temporary,
to assign to each member his quota of dues or of charges, and his quote of influence or of
authority, to regulate the way in which the society shall support and govern itself, to decide
upon and sanction the equitable statute, to oversee and impose its execution, that is to say,
in sum to maintain the right of each person and oblige each to pay what he owes.--This is difficult
and delicate. But, being done, the collective personality is, as much as any individual, complete
and defined, independent and distinct from the State; by the same title as that of the individual,
it has its own circle of initiation and of action, its separate domain, which is its private
affair. The State, on its side, has its own affairs too, which are those of the public; and
thus, in the nature of things, both circles are distinct; neither of them should prey upon
or encroach on the other.--Undoubtedly, local societies and the State may help each other,
lend each other their agents, and thus avoid employing two for one; may reduce their official
staff, diminish their expenses, and, through this interchange of secondary offices, do their
work better and more economically. For example, the commune and the department may let the
State collect and deposit their "additional centimes," borrow from it for this purpose its
assessors and other accountants, and thus receive their revenues with no drawback, almost gratis,
on the appointed day. In the like manner, the State has very good reason for entrusting the
departmental council with the re-distribution of its direct taxes among the districts, and
the district council with the same re-distribution among the communes: in this way it saves
trouble for itself, and there is no other more effective mode of ensuring an equitable allocation.
It will similarly be preferable to have the mayor, rather than anybody else, handle petty public
undertakings, which nobody else could do as readily and as surely, with less trouble, expense,
and mistakes, with fewer legal document, registers of civil status, advertisements of laws
and regulations, transmissions by the orders of public authorities to interested parties, and
of local information to the public authorities which they need, the preparation and revision
of the electoral lists and of conscripts, and co-operation in measures of general security.
Similar collaboration is imposed on the captain of a merchant vessel, on the administrators
of a railway, on the director of a hotel or even of a factory, and this does not prevent the
company which runs the ship, the railway, the hotel, or the factory, from enjoying full ownership
and the free disposition of its capital; from holding meetings, passing resolutions, electing
directors, appointing its managers, and regulating its own affairs, preserving intact that
precious faculty of possessing, of willing and of acting, which cannot be lost or alienated
without ceasing to be a personality. To remain a personality (i.e. a legal entity), such is
the main interest and right of all persons, singly or collectively, and therefore of local
communities and of the State itself; it must be careful not to abdicate and be careful not
to usurp.--It renounces in favor of local societies when, through optimism or weakness, it
hands a part of the public domain over to them; when it gives them the responsibility for the
collection of its taxes, the appointment of its judges and police-commissioners, the employment
of its armed forces, when it delegates local functions to them which it should exercise itself,
because it is the special and responsible director, the only one who is in a suitable position,
competent, well provided, and qualified to carry them out. On the other side, it causes prejudice
to the local societies, when it appropriates to itself a portion of their private domain, when
it confiscates their possessions, when it disposes of their capital or income arbitrarily,
when it imposes on them excessive expenses for worship, charity, education, and any other service
which properly belongs to a different association; when it refuses to recognize in the mayor
the representative of the commune and the government official, when it subordinates the first
of these two titles to the second, when it claims the right of giving or taking away, through
with the second which belongs to it, the first which does not belong to it, when in practice
and in its grasp the commune and department cease to be private companies in order to become
administrative compartments.--According to the opportunity and the temptation, it glides downhill,
now toward the surrender of its duty, and now toward the meddlesome interference of an intruder.

V. Local versus State authority.

     Case in which the State abdicates.--Anarchy during the
     Revolution.--Case in which the State usurps.--Regime of the
     year VIII.--Remains of local independence under the ancient
     regime.--Destroyed under the new regime.--Local society
     after 1800.

From and after 1789, the State, passing through intermittent fits and starts of brutal despotism,
had resigned its commission. Under its almost nominal sovereignty, there were in France forty-four
thousand small States enjoying nearly sovereign power, and, most frequently, sovereignty in
reality.[4111] Not only did the local community manage its private affairs, but again, in the
circumscription, each exercised the highest public functions, disposed of the national guard,
of the police force, and even of the army, appointed civil and criminal judges, police commissioners,[4112]
the assessors and collectors of taxes. In brief, the central State handed over, or allowed
the seizure of the powers of which it ought never to deprive itself, the last of its means
by which alone it acts effectively and on the spot,

* its sword, which it alone should wield,

* its scales of justice, which it alone should hold,

* its purse, for it to fill, and we have seen with what harm to individuals, to the communes,
and to itself, with what a lamentable series of disastrous results:

* universal, incurable, persistent anarchy,

* impotence of the government,

* violation of the laws,

* complete stoppage of revenue, an empty treasury,

* despotism of the strong, oppression of the weak,

* street riots,

* rural brigandage,

* extortions and waste at the town halls,

* municipal usurpations and abdications,

* ruin of the highways, and all useful public works and buildings, and

* the ruin and distress of the communes.[4113]

In contrast with this, and through disgust, the new Régime takes the other side, and even goes
to the other extreme; the central State, in 1800, no longer a party that has resigned, as formerly,
becomes the interloper. Not only does it take back from local communities the portion of the
public domain which had been imprudently conceded to them, but, again, it lays its hand on
their private domain; it attaches them to it by way of appendices, while its systematic, uniform
usurpation, accomplished at one blow, spread over the whole territory, again plunges them all,
communes and departments alike, into a chaos in which, under the old monarchy, they would never
have fallen.

Before 1789, collective legal entities (persons), provincial and communal, still existed. On
the one hand, five or six great local bodies, represented by elective assemblies, full of life
and spontaneously active, among others those of Languedoc and Brittany, still provided for
and governed themselves. The other provinces, which the central power had reduced to administrative
districts, retained, at least, their historic cohesion, their time-honored name, the lament
for, or at least the souvenir of, their former autonomy, and, here and there, a few vestiges
or fragments of their lost independence; and, better yet, these old, paralyzed, but not mutilated
bodies, had just assumed new life, and under their renewed organism were striving to give the
blood in their veins a fresh start. Twenty-one provincial assemblies, instituted over the entire
territory, between 1778 and 1787, and provided with powers of considerable importance, undertook,
each in its own sphere, to direct provincial interests. Communal interest, also, had its representatives
in the urban or rural communes. In the towns, a deliberative assembly, composed of the leading
notables and of delegates elected by all the corporations and communities in the place, formed
an intermittent municipal council the same as to-day, but much more ample, which voted and
passed resolutions on important occasions; there was a board of management at the head of it,
"the town corps," comprising the various municipal officials, the mayor, his lieutenant, sheriffs,
prosecuting attorney, treasurer, and clerk,[4114] now elected by the deliberative assembly,
now the legal purchasers, heirs, and proprietors of their office, the same as a notary or advocate
of to-day owns his office, protected against administrative caprices by a royal acquittance,
and, for a money consideration, titular in their towns, the same as a parliamentarian in his
parliament, and hence planted in, or grafted upon, the commune like a parliamentarian among
his peers, and, like him, defenders of local interests against the central power.--In the village,
the heads of families met together on the public square, deliberated in common over common
affairs, elected the syndic, likewise the collectors of the taille, and deputies to the intendant;
of their own accord, but with his approval, they taxed themselves for the support of the school,
for repairs to the church or fountain, and for beginning or carrying on a suit in court.--All
these remains of the ancient provincial and communal initiative, respected or tolerated by
monarchical centralization, are crushed out and extinguished. The First Consul very soon falls
upon these local societies and seizes them in his claws; in the eyes of the new legislator
they scarcely seem to exist; there must not be any local personalities for him. The commune
and department, in his eyes, are merely territorial districts, physical portions of the public
domain, provincial workshops to which the central State transfers and uses its tools, in order
to work effectively and on the spot. Here, as elsewhere, he takes the business entirely in
his own hands; if he employs interested parties it is only as auxiliaries, at odd times, for
a few days, to operate with more discernment and more economy, to listen to complaints and
promises, to become better informed and the better to apportion changes; but, except this occasional
and subordinate help, the members of the local society must remain passive in the local society;
they are to pay and obey, and nothing more. Their community no longer belongs to them, but
to the government; its chiefs are functionaries who depend on him, and not on it; it no longer
issues its mandate; all its legal mandatories, all its representatives and directors, municipal
or general councilors, mayors, sub-prefects or prefects, are imposed on it from above, by a
foreign hand, and, willingly or not, instead of choosing them, it has to put up with them.

VI. Local Elections under the First Consul.

     Lists of notables.--Sénatus-consultes of the year X.
     --Liberal institution becomes a reigning instrument.
     --Mechanism of the system of appointments and candidatures.
     --Decree of 1806 and suppression of candidatures.

At the beginning, an effort was made to put in practice the constitutional principle proposed
by Sieyès: Power in future, according the accepted formula, must come from above and confidence
from below. To this end, in the year IX, the assembled citizens appointed one-tenth of their
number, about 500,000 communal notables, and these, likewise assembled, appointed also one-tenth
of their number, about 50,000 departmental notables. The government selected from this list
the municipal councilors of each commune, and, from this second list, the general councilors
of each department.--The machine, however, is clumsy, difficult to set going, still more difficult
to manage, and too unreliable in its operation. According to the First Consul, it is an absurd
system, "a childish piece of ideology; a great nation should not be organized in this way."[4115]
At bottom,[4116] "he does not want notables accepted by the nation. In his system, he is to
declare who the notables of the nation shall be and stamp them with the seal of the State;
it is not for the nation to present them to the head of the State stamped with the national
seal." Consequently, at the end of a year, he becomes, through the establishment of electoral
colleges, the veritable grand-elector of all the notables; he has transformed, with his usual
address, a liberal institution into a reigning instrumentality.[4117] Provisionally, he holds
on to the list of communal notables, "because it is the work of the people, the result of a
grand movement which must not prove useless, and because, moreover, it contains a large number
of names.... offering a wide margin from which to make good selections.[4118] He brings together
these notables in each canton, and invites them to designate their trusty men, the candidates
from which he will choose municipal councilors. But, as there are very few cultivated men in
the rural districts, "nearly always it is the old seignior who would get himself designated";[4119]
it is essential that the hand of the government should not be forced, that its faculty of choosing
should not be restricted. Thus, the presentation of municipal councilors of that category must
cease, there must no longer be any preliminary candidates. Now, according the sénatus-consulte,
this category is a large one, for it comprises all communes of less than 5000 souls, and therefore
over 35,000 municipal councils out of 36,000, whose members are appointed arbitrarily, without
the citizens whom they represent taking any part in their nomination.--Four or five hundred
average or large communes still remain, in which for each municipal post, the cantonal assembly
designates two candidates between whom the government chooses. Let us see this assembly duly
installed and at work.

Its president, as a precautionary step, is imposed upon it. He is appointed in advance by the
government, and is well informed as to what the government wants. He alone controls the police
of the chamber and the order of all deliberations. On opening the session, he draws a list
from his pocket, which list, furnished by the government, contains the names of one hundred
of the heaviest taxpayers of the canton, from whom the assembly must select its candidates.
The lists lies spread out on the table, and the electors advance in turn, spell the names,
and try to read it over. The president would not be very adroit and show but little zeal did
he not help them in reading it, and if he did not point out by some sign, a tone of the voice,
or even a direct word, what names were agreeable to the government. Now, this government, which
has five hundred thousand bayonets at command, dislikes opposition: the electors know it, and
look twice before expressing any counter opinion; it is very probable that most of the names
suggested by the government are found on their ballots; were only one-half of them there, these
would suffice; of the two candidates proposed for each place, if one is acceptable this one
will be elected; after making him a candidate the government makes sure that he will become
titular. The first act of the electoral comedy is played, and it is not long before no trouble
whatever is taken to play it. After January, 1806, by virtue of a decree which has passed himself,
Napoleon is the only one[4120] who will directly fill every vacancy in the municipal councils;
from now on these councils are to owe their existence wholly to him. The two qualities which
constitute them, and which, according to Sieyès, are derived from two distinct sources, are
now derived from only one source. Only the Emperor can confer upon them both public confidence
and legal power.

The second act of the comedy begins; this act is more complicated, and comprises several scenes
which end, some of them, in the appointment of the arrondissement councils, and others in that
of the council-general of the department. We will take only the latter, the most important;[4121]
there are two, one following the other, and in different places.--The first one[4122] is played
in the cantonal assembly above described; the president, who has just directed the choice of
municipal candidates, draws from his portfolio another list, likewise furnished to him by the
prefect, and on which six hundred names of those who pay the heaviest taxes in the department
are printed. It is from among these six hundred that the cantonal assembly must elect ten or
twelve members who, with their fellows, chosen in the same way by the other cantonal assemblies,
will form the electoral college of the department, and take their seats at the chief town of
the prefecture. This time again, the president, who is the responsible leader of the cantonal
flock, takes care to conduct it; his finger on the list indicates to the electors which names
the government prefers; if need be, he adds a word to the sign he makes, and, probably, the
voters will be as docile as before; and all the more because the composition of the electoral
college only half interests them. This college, unlike the municipal council, does not touch
or hold any of them on their sensitive side; it is not obliged to tighten or loosen their purse-strings;
it does not vote the "additional centimes"; it does not meddle with their business; it there
only for show, to simulate the absent people, to present candidates, and thus perform the second
electoral scene in the same way as the first one, but at the chief town of the prefecture and
by new actors. These extras are also led by a head conductor, appointed by the government,
and who is responsible for their behavior, "a president who has in sole charge the police of
their assembled college," and must direct their voting. For each vacancy in the council-general
of the department, they are to present two names; certainly, almost without any help, and with
only a discrete hint, they will guess the suitable names. For they are smarter, more open-minded,
than the backward and rural members of a cantonal assembly; they are better informed and better
"posted," they have visited the prefect and know his opinion, the opinion of the government,
and they vote accordingly. It is certain that one-half, at least, of the candidates whom they
present on the list are good, and that suffices, since twice the required number of candidates
have to be nominated. And yet, in Napoleon's eye, this is not sufficient. For the nomination
of general councilors,[4123] as well as that of municipal councilors, he suppresses preliminary
candidature, the last remnant of popular representation or delegation. According to his theory,
he is himself the sole representative and delegate of the people, invested with full powers,
not alone in the State, but again in the department and commune, the prime and the universal
motor of the entire machine, not merely at the center, but again at the extremities, dispenser
of all public employments, not merely to suggest the candidate for these and make him titular,
but again to create directly and at once, both titular and candidate.

VII. Municipal and general councillors under the Empire.

     Quality of municipal and general councilors under the
     Consulate and the Empire.--Object of their meetings.--Limits
     of their power.--Their real role.--Role of the prefect and
     of the government.

Observe the selections which he imposes on himself beforehand; these selections are those to
which he has tied down the electoral bodies. Being the substitute of these bodies, he takes,
as they do, general councilors from those in the department who pay the most taxes, and municipal
councilors from those most taxed in the canton. One the other hand, by virtue of the municipal
law, it is from the municipal councilors that he chooses the mayor. Thus the local auxiliaries
and agents he employs are all notables of the place, the leading landowners and largest manufacturers
and merchants. He systematically enrolls the distributors of labor on his side, all who, through
their wealth and residence, through their enterprises and expenditure on the spot, exercise
local influence and authority. In order not to omit any of these, and be able to introduce
into the general council this or that rich veteran of the old régime, or this or that parvenu
of the new régime who is not rich, he has reserved to himself the right of adding twenty eligible
members to the list, "ten of which must be taken from among citizens belonging to the Legion
of Honor, or having rendered important services, and ten taken from among the thirty in the
department who pay the most taxes." In this way none of the notables escape him; he recruits
them as he pleases and according to his needs, now among men of the revolution who he does
not want to see discredited or isolated,[4124] now among men of the old monarchy whom he wants
to rally to himself by favor or by force. Such is the Baron de Vitrolles,[4125] who, without
asking for the place, becomes mayor of Versailles and councilor-general in Basses-Alps, and
then, a little later, at his peril, inspector of the imperial sheepfolds. Such is the Count
de Villèle, who, on returning to his estate of Morville, after an absence of fourteen years,
suddenly, "before having determined where he would live, either in town or in the country,"
finds himself mayor of Morville. To make room for him, his predecessor is removed and the latter,
"who, since the commencement of the Revolution, has performed the functions of mayor," is let
down to the post of assistant. Shortly after this the government appoints M. de Villèle president
of the cantonal assembly. Naturally the assembly, advised underhandedly, presents him as a
candidate for the general council of Haute-Garonne, and the government places him in that office.--"All
the notable land-owners of the department formed part of this council, and the Restoration
still found us there seven years afterwards. General orders evidently existed, enjoining the
prefects to give preference in their choice to the most important land-owners in the country."
Likewise, Napoleon everywhere selects the mayors from the rich and well-to-do class"; in the
large towns he appoints only "people with carriages."[4126] Many of them in the country and
several in the towns are legitimists[4127], at least at heart, and Napoleon knows it; but,
as he says; "these folks do not want the earthquake"; they are too much interested, and too
personally, in the maintenance of order.[4128] Moreover, to represent his government, he needs
decorative people; and it is only these who can be so gratis, be themselves, look well, at
their own expense, and on the spot. Besides, they are the most informed, the best able to supervise
accounts, to examine article by article the budgets of the department and commune, to comprehend
the necessity of a road and the utility of a canal, to offer pertinent observations, to proclaim
wise decisions, to obey orders as discreet and useful collaborators. All this they will not
refuse to do if they are sensible people. In every form of government, it is better to be with
the governors than with the governed, and in this case, when the broom is wielded from above
and applied so vigorously and with such meticulousness to everybody and everything, it is well
to be as near the handle as possible.

And what is still better, they will volunteer, especially at the beginning, if they are good
people. For, at least during the first years, one great object of the new government is the
re-establishment of order in the local as well as in the general administration. It is well-disposed
and desires to mend matters; it undertakes the suppression of robbery, theft, embezzlement,
waste, premeditated or unintentional arrogation of authority, extravagance, negligence and failure.

"Since 1790,"[4129] says the First Consul to the minister of the interior, "the 36,000 communes
represent, in France, 36,000 orphans. .. girls abandoned or plundered during ten years by their
municipal guardians, appointed by the Convention and the Directory. In changing the mayors,
assistants, and councilors of the commune, scarcely more has been done than to change the mode
of stealing; they have stolen the communal highway, the by-roads, the trees, and have robbed
the Church;[4130] they have stolen the furniture belonging to the commune and are still stealing
under the spineless municipal system of year VIII."

All these abuses are investigated and punished;[4131] he thieves are obliged to restore and
will steal no more. The county budget, like of the State, must now be prepared every year,[4132]
with the same method, precision, and clearness, receipts on one side and expenses on the other,
each section divided into chapters and each chapter into articles, the state of the liabilities,
each debt, the state of the assets and a tabular enumeration of distinct resources, available
capital and unpaid claims, fixed income and variable income, certain revenue and possible revenue.
In no case must "the calculation of presumable expenditure exceed the amount of presumable
income." In no case must "the commune demand or obtain an extra tax for its ordinary expenses."
Exact accounts and rigid economy, such are everywhere indispensable, as well as preliminary
reforms, when a badly kept house has to be transformed into one which is kept in good order.
The First Consul has at heart these two reforms and he adheres to them. Above all there must
be no more indebtedness; now, more than one-half of the communes are in debt. "Under penalty
of dismissal, the prefect is to visit the communes at least twice a year, and the sub-prefect
four times a year.[4133] A reward must be given to mayors who free their commune of debt in
two years, and the government will appoint a special commissioner to take charge of the administration
of a commune which, after a delay of five years, shall not be liberated. The fifty mayors who,
each year, shall have most contributed to unencumber their commune and assure that is has resources
available, shall be summoned to Paris at the expense of the State, and presented in solemn
session to the three consults. A column, raised at the expense of the government and placed
at the principal entrance of the town or village, will transmit to posterity the mayor's name,
and, besides, this inscription: 'To the guardian of the commune, a grateful country.'"

Instead of these semi-poetic honors adapted to the imaginations of the year VIII, take the
positive honors adapted to the imaginations of the year XII, and the following years, brevets
and grades, decorations of the Legion d'Honneur, the titles of chevalier, baron, and count,[4134]
presents and endowments,--the rewards offered to the representatives of local society, the
same as to the other functionaries, but on the same condition that they will likewise be functionaries,
that is to say, tools in the hands of the government. In this respect, every precaution is
taken, especially against those who, forming a collective body, may be tempted to consider
themselves a deliberative assembly, such as municipal and general councils, less easily handled
than single individuals and, at times, capable of not being quite so docile. None of these
can hold sessions of more than fifteen days in the year; each must accept its budget of receipts
and expenses, almost complete and ready made, from the prefecture. In the way of receipts,
its powers consist wholly in voting certain additional and optional centimes, more or less
numerous, at will, "within the limits established by law";[4135] again, even within these limits,
its decision can be carried out only after an examination and approval at the prefecture. There
is the same regulation in regard to expenses; the council, indeed, municipal or general, is
simply consultative; the government delegates the mayor, sub-prefect, or prefect, who prescribes
what must be done. As the preliminary steps are taken by him, and he has constant direction
of the local council for two weeks, and finally the right of confirmation, he controls it,
and then for eleven months and a half, having sole charge of the daily and consecutive execution
of its acts, he reigns in the local community. Undoubtedly, having received and expended money
for the community, he is accountable and will present his yearly accounts at the following
session; the law says[4136] that in the commune, "the municipal council shall listen to and
may discuss the account of municipal receipts and expenses." But read the text through to the
end, and note the part which the law, in this case, assigns to the municipal council. It plays
the part of the chorus in the antique tragedy: it attends, listens, approves, or disapproves,
in the background and subordinate, approved or rebuked, the principal actors remain in charge
and do as they please; they grant or dispute over its head, independently, just as it suits
them. In effect, it is not to the municipal council that the mayor renders his accounts, but
"to the sub-prefect, who finally passes them," and gives him his discharge. Whatever the council
may say, the approval is valid; for greater security, the prefect, if any councilor proves
refractory, "may suspend from his functions" a stubborn fellow like him, and restore in the
council the unanimity which has been partially disturbed.--In the department, the council-general
must likewise "listen" to the accounts for the year; the law, owing to a significant omission,
does not say that is may discuss them. Nevertheless, a circular of the year IX requests it
to "make every observation on the use of the additional centimes" which the importance of the
subject demands, to verify whether each sum debited to expenses has been used for the purpose
assigned to it, and even "to reject expenses, stating the reasons for this decision, which
have not been sufficiently justified." And better still, the minister, who is a liberal, addresses
a systematic series of questions to the general councils, on all important matters,[4137] "agriculture,
commerce, and manufactures, asylums and public charities, public roads and other works, public
instruction, administration properly so called, state of the number of population, public spirit
and opinions," collecting and printing their observations and desires. After the year IX, however,
this publication stops; it renders the general councils too important; it might rally the entire
population of the department to them and even of all France that could read; it might hamper
the prefect and diminish his ascendancy. From now on, it is the prefect alone who replies to
these questions, and of which the government gives an analysis or tables of statistics;[4138]
then, the publication of these ceases; decidedly, printing always has its drawbacks--manuscript
reports are much better; local affairs are no longer transacted outside the bureaus, and are
managed with closed doors; any report that might spread outside the prefect's cabinet or that
of the minister, is carefully toned down or purposely stifled, and, under the prefect's thumb,
the general council becomes an automaton.

In private, dealing directly with the Emperor's representative, it appears as if one is dealing
directly with the Emperor. Consider these few words--in the presence of the Emperor; they carry
an immeasurable weight in the scales of contemporaries. For them, he has every attribute of
Divinity, not only omnipotence and omnipresence, but again omniscience, and, if he speaks to
them, what they feel far surpasses what they imagine. When he visits a town and confers with
the authorities of the place on the interests of the commune or department, his interlocutors
are bewildered; they find him as well informed as themselves, and more clear-sighted; it is
he who explains their affairs to them. On arriving the evening before, he calls for the summaries
of facts and figures, every positive and technical detail of information, reduced and classified
according to the method taught by himself and prescribed to his administrators.[4139] During
the night he has read all this over and mastered it; in the morning, at dawn, he has taken
his ride on horseback; with extraordinary promptness and accuracy, his topographical glance
has discerned "the best direction for the projected canal, the best site for the construction
of a factory, a harbor, or a dike."[4140] To the difficulties which confuse the best brains
in the country, to much debated, seemingly insoluble, questions, he at once presents the sole
practical solution; there it is, ready at hand, and the members of the local council had not
seen it; he makes them touch it with their fingers. They stand confounded and agape before
the universal competence of this wonder genius. "He's more than a man" exclaimed the administrators
of Dusseldorf to Beugnot.[4141] "Yes," replied Beugnot, "he's the devil!" In effect, he adds
to mental ascendancy the ascendancy of force; we always see beyond the great man in him the
terror-striking dominator; admiration begins or ends in fear; the soul is completely subjugated;
enthusiasm and servility, under his eye, melt together into one sentiment of impassioned obedience
and unreserved submission.[4142] Voluntarily and involuntarily, through conviction, trembling,
and fascinated, men abdicate their freedom of will to his advantage. The magical impression
remains in their minds after he has departed. Even absent, even with those who have never seen
him, he maintains his prestige and communicates it to all who command in his name. Before the
prefect, the baron, the count, the councilor of state, the senator in embroidered uniform,
gilded and garnished with decorations, every municipal or general council loses his free will
and becomes incapable of saying no, only too glad if not obliged to say yes "inopportunely,"
to enter upon odious and disagreeable undertakings, to simulate at one's own expense, and that
of others, excessive zeal and voluntary self-sacrifice, to vote for and hurrah at patriotic
subscriptions of which it must contribute the greatest portion and for supplementary conscriptions[4143]
which seize their sons that are except or bought out of service.[4144] It allows itself to
be managed; it is simply one of the many wheels of our immense machine, one which receives
its impulsion elsewhere, and from above, through the interposition of the prefect.--But, except
in rare cases, when the interference of the government applies it to violent and oppressive
schemes, it is serviceable; fixed in position, and confining itself to turning regularly and
noiselessly in its little circle, it may, in general, still render the double service demanded
of it in the year IX, by a patriotic minister. According to the definition which Chaptal then
gave the general councils, fixing their powers and competence, they exist for two purposes
and only two:[4145] they must first "insure to the governed impartiality in the assessment
of taxes along with the verification of the use of the latest levies in the payment of local
expenses," and next, they must, with discretion and modesty, "obtain for the government the
information which alone enables it to provide for the necessities of each department and improve
the entire working of the public administration."

VIII. Excellence of Local Government after Napoleon.

     The institution remains intact under the Restoration.
     --Motives of the governors.--Excellence of the machine.
     --Abdication of the administrator.

Such is the spirit of the institution and such is its form. After 1814 and 1815, after the
fall of the Empire and the Restoration, the institution subsists and remains as it was before
in form and in spirit: it is always the government which appoints and directs all the representatives
of local society, in the department, in the commune, and in the intermediate circumscriptions,
the prefect, sub-prefects, mayors and assistants, the councilors of the department, of the
arrondissement and of the commune. Whatever the ruling power may be it is repugnant to any
change; never does it voluntarily restrict itself in its faculty of bestowing or withholding
offices, authority, consideration, influence, or salaries, every desirable and every desired
good thing; as far as it can, it retains these in its own hands to distribute them as it pleases,
and in its own interest to bestow them on its partisans and to deprive its adversaries of them,
to attract clients and create minions. The four thousand offices of prefect, sub-prefect, and
councilors of the prefecture, department, and arrondissement, the four hundred thousand offices
of mayor, assistants, and municipal councilors, and added to these, the innumerable salaried
employments of auxiliary or secondary agents, from the secretary-general of the prefecture
down to the secretary of the mayor, from the scribes and clerks of the prefecture and sub-prefecture
down to the staff of the municipal police and of the octroi in the towns, from the city or
department architect down to the lowest road-surveyor, from the watchmen and superintendents
of a canal or harbor down to the field-guards and stone-breakers or the highway, directly or
indirectly, the constitutional government disposes of them in the same fashion as the imperial
government, with the same interference in the most trifling details and in the most trifling
affair. Commune or department, such local society remains under the second Régime what it was
under the first one, an extension of the central society, an appendix of the State, an adjunct
of the great establishment of which the seat is at Paris. In these adjuncts, controlled from
above, nothing is changed, neither the extent and limits of the circumscription, nor the source
and hierarchy of powers, nor the theoretic framework, nor the practical mechanism, not even
the names.[4146] After the prefects of Empire come the prefects of the Restoration, the same
in title and uniform, installed in the same mansion, to do the same work, with equal zeal,
that is to say, with dangerous zeal, to such an extent that, on taking leave of their final
audience, on setting out for their department, M. de Talleyrand, who knows men and institutions
profoundly, gives them, as his last injunction, the following admirable order: "And, especially,
no zeal! "--According to the recommendation of Fouché, "the Bourbons slept in the bed of Napoleon,"
which was the bed of Louis XIV., but larger and more comfortable, widened by the Revolution
and the Empire, adapted to the figure of its latest occupant, and enlarged by him so as to
spread over the whole of France. When, after twenty-five years of exile, one returns home,
it is pleasant to find such a bed in the house ready made, taking down and remaking the old
one would give double trouble; moreover, in the old one, one was less at his ease; let us profit
by all that rebels and the usurper have done that was good. In this particular, not alone the
king, but again the most antiquated of the Bourbons are revolutionaries and Bonapartists; despotic
traditionally, and monopolists through their situation, they accept with no regrets the systematic
demolition effected by the Constituent Assembly, and the systematic centralization instituted
by the First Consul. The Duc d'Angoulême, when, in 1815, he was paraded about the country,
among the bridges, canals, and splendid roads of Languedoc, on being reminded that these fine
works were formerly executed by the "Ètats" of the province, dryly replied "We prefer the departments
to the provinces."[4147]

With the exception of a few antiquarian and half-rustic royalists, nobody objects; there is
no thought of reconstructing the machine on another plan; in sum, nobody is dissatisfied with
the way it works. It works well, most effectively; under the Restoration as under the Empire,
it renders to those who are interested the service demanded of it; it goes on providing better
and better for the two grand objects of local society, care for the public highways and protection
against natural calamities. In 1816, the four direct contributions returned, in principal,
249 millions, and, in additional centimes, 89 millions only. For a long time the additional
centimes applied to the local service and voted by the department or by the commune are not
many and do not exceed 5 %. of the principal. by competent functionaries, employed and superintended,
who at first through fear are compelled to be prudent, and then through habit and honor have
become honest accountants; there is no waste, no underhand stealing, no arbitrary charges;
no sum is turned aside between receipts and expenses to disappear and be lost on the road,
or flow out of its channel in another direction. The sensitive taxpayer, large or small, no
longer smarts under the painful goad which formerly pricked him and made him jump. Local taxation,
annexed to the general tax, is found to be reformed, lightened, and duly proportioned. Like
the principal, the "additional centimes" are an equitable charge, graduated according to the
sum of net revenue; like the principal, they are assessed according to the assumed sum of this
net revenue by the councils of the arondissements among the communes, and by the communal assessors
among the inhabitants. They are collected by the same collector, with the same formalities,
and every taxpayer who thinks himself taxed too heavily finds a court of appeal in the council
of the prefecture, before which he can make his claim and obtain the release or reduction of
his quota.--Thus no crying iniquity exists, nor keen suffering; on the other hand, there are
the infinite conveniences and daily enjoyment of possessions, the privation of which, to the
modern man, is equal to the lack of fresh, pure air, physical security and protection against
contagion, facilities for circulation and transport, pavements, light, the salubrity of healthy
streets purged of their filth, and the presence and vigilance of the municipal and rural police.
All these benefits, the objects of local society, are due to the machine which works with little
cost, without breaking down or stopping for any long time, as lately under the Republic, and
without any extortion and clashing, as in the times of the ancient Régime. It works by itself,
almost without the help of the parties interested, and which, in their eyes, is not its least
merit; with it, there is no bother, no responsibility, no elections to attend to, no discussions
to maintain, no resolutions to pass. There is only one bill to be settled, not even a specified
bill, but a surplus of centimes added to each franc, and included with the principal in the
annual quota. Just like an owner who, by his correct, exact, and somewhat slow although punctual
and capable supervisors, are relieved of the care of his property. He may dismiss the head
steward of his domain in a fit of ill-humor, but, if he changes his stewards, he does not change
the system; he is too accustomed to it, and his indolence demands it; he is not tempted to
take care and trouble on himself, nor is he qualified to become his own intendant.

And what is worse, in the present case the master has forgotten that he is the owner of his
domain, he hardly remembers that he is a personality. Whether large or small, department or
commune, local society has no longer the consciousness of being a natural body, composed of
involuntarily united members with common interests; this sentiment, already weakened and drooping
at the end of the ancient régime, lost under the multiplied attacks of the Revolution and under
the prolonged compression of the Empire. During twenty-five years it has suffered too much;
it has been too arbitrarily manufactured or mutilated, too frequently recast, and made and
unmade.--In the commune, everything has been upset over and over again, the territorial circumscription,
the internal and external system, all collective property. To the 44,000 municipalities improvised
by the Constituent Assembly, there succeeded under the Directory 6000 or 7000 cantonal municipalities,
a sort of local syndicate, represented in each commune by a subaltern agent, and then, under
the Consulate, 36,000 distinct and permanent communes. Sovereign at the start, through the
improvidence and abdication of the Constituent Assembly, the communes become, in the hands
of the Convention, so many timorous subjects surrendered to the brutality of perambulating
pashas and resident agas, imposed upon them by Jacobin tyranny; then under the Empire, a docile
herd governed in a correct way from above, but possessing no authority of their own, and therefore
indifferent to their own affairs and utterly wanting in public spirit. Other more serious blows
affect of the them still more deeply and acutely. Through a decree of the Legislative Assembly,
in every commune where a third of the inhabitants demand a partition of the communal property,
the commune is stripped, and its time-honored patrimony is set off in equal lots, in portions
according to families or per head, and converted into small private holdings. (Page 319/584)Through
a decree of the Convention, the whole of the communal fortune, its debts and assets, are swallowed
up by the public fortune and engulfed along with that in the sale of real property, in the
discredit of the assignats, and in the final bankruptcy. After this prolonged process, communal
property, even when disgorged and restored by the exchequer, is not what it was before; once
out of the monster's stomach, the remains of it, dismembered, spoilt, half-digested, are no
longer held sacred and inviolable; a settlement of accounts intervenes; "there are a good many
communes," says Napoleon[4150] "whose debts have been paid and whose property was not sold;
there are many others whose property has been sold and whose debts are not paid.... The result
is that many pieces of property in certain communes are not considered reputable." Consequently,
he first deprives these of one-tenth of their income from land, and then one-quarter of the
produce of their extra cuttings of timber,[4151] and finally, their capital, the whole of their
real property,[4152] estimated at 370 millions; in exchange, he gives them 138 millions in
the rentes; the loss to them as well as the gain to him, is thus 232 millions, while the sale
of communal properties at auction, begun in 1813, continues under the Restoration in 1814,
1815, and even in 1816. A human community treated in this way for one quarter of a century,
ceases to be a personality, and becomes a mere material object; as far as this is concerned,
its members have come to believe, that it is and must be so and cannot be otherwise.

Above the commune, nearly dead, is the department, completely dead; here local patriotism is
stamped out at the beginning by the destruction of the provinces. Among so many political crimes
and other outrages committed by the Revolution against France, this is one of the worst. The
Constituent Assembly has dismantled long-established associations, the accumulated work of
ten centuries, historic and powerful names, each of which aroused enthusiasm in thousands of
breasts and cemented together thousands of wills, centers of spontaneous co-operation, firesides
warm with generous feeling, zeal, and devotion, a practical school of high political education,
an admirable theater for available talent, noble careers open to legitimate ambition, in short,
the small patrimony whose instinctive cult forms the first step out of egoism and a march onward
toward thoughtful devotion to the large patrimony. Cut apart by geometrical shears, and designated
by an entirely new geographical term, small sections of the province became so many factitious
agglomerations of juxtaposed inhabitants, human assemblages without any soul; and, for twenty
years, the legislator fails to communicate to them that semblance of spirit, the judicial quality
of which it disposes; it is only after 1811 that the departments arrive at civil proprietorship
and personality: this dignity, besides, the State confers only to disburden itself and to burden
them, to impose expenses on them which hardly concern them but which do concern it, to compel
them in its place to support the costly maintenance of its prisons, police quarters, courts
of justice, and prefectorial mansions; even at this late date, they are not yet, in the eyes
of jurisconsults or before the Council of State, incontestable proprietors and complete personalities;[4153]
they are not to be fully qualified in this sense until the law of 1838.

Local society, accordingly, proves abortive over the whole 27,000 square leagues of territory;
it is simply a legal figment, an artificial grouping together of neighbors who do not find
themselves bound and incorporated together by neighborhood; in order that their society might
become viable and stimulating would require both commune and department to have in mind and
at heart the following idea, which they no longer entertained:

"We are all aboard the same ship, it is ours and we are its crew. We are here to manage it
ourselves, with our own hands, each according to his rank and position, each taking his part,
little or big, in doing his own work."

*****

[Footnote 4101: My understanding, today in 1999, that all people other animals by nature are
'built' as egoists, that is to look out for themselves, to preserve their life, protect their
property and family. As far as the social (or gregarious) instincts are concerned then there
are several which manifest themselves in the correct and timely order during our entire existence.
Some will regulate falling in love, others procreation, others relationship between man and
woman, others between parents and children, at yet others the group and its choice and submission
to a leader. One of the results is that everyone wants to be important and accepted, another
that a mob has drives or instincts which may galvanize it into compassion, anger, fear and
action. To this must be added that all people can remember, not only what they have tried,
but also what they have seen or heard about. They also tend to imagine that others react in
the same way as they themselves do. This allows them to look ahead and imagine various possible
scenarios. They are also aware of how they would want to be dealt with by others. I have seen
carters plodding along, seven or eight in a line, each with six or eight strong horses dragging
their vehicles and alternately helping each other, their horses hauling their carts out of
ruts into which they had got stuck... In many places, I was grieved to see carts and wagons
leaving the high-road and traversing, in spaces from 100 to 200 yards wide, the plowed ground,
when each made his own road.... The carters sometimes make only three or four leagues from
morning to night."--Hence, a dearth of provisions at Brest. "We are assured that the people
have long been on half-rations, or even quarter rations."--And yet, "There is now in the river,
at Nantes, from four to five hundred boats loaded with grain; they have been there for months,
and their number increases daily. Their cargoes are deteriorating and becoming damaged."]

[Footnote 4105: Ibid., preface and summary, p.41 (on the dikes and works of protection against
inundations at Dol in Brittany, at Fréjus, in Camargue, in Lower Rhine, in Nord, in Pas-de-Calais,
at Ostende and Blankenberg, at Rochefort, at La Rochelle, etc.). At Blankenberg, a gale sufficed
to carry away the dike and let in the sea. "The dread of some disaster which would ruin a large
portion of the departments of the Lys and of the Escaut kept the inhabitants constantly in
a state of frightful anxiety."]

[Footnote 4106: Hence the additional centimes to the tax on doors and windows, the number of
which indicates approximately the value of the rent. Hence also the additional centimes to
the personal tax, which is proportionate to the rent, this being considered as the most exact
indication of domestic expenditure.]

[Footnote 4107: Hence the communal "additional centimes" to the tax on business licenses.]

[Footnote 4108: Hence the "additional centimes" to the land tax.]

[Footnote 4109: Today, in 1999, we may in Denmark observe how the contemporary oligarchy of
non-violent Jacobins, have transformed the local authorities into tools of the central government
which through an all permeating administration, has replaced the authority of the father and
the solidarity of the family with a communal care and supervision.(SR.).]

[Footnote 4110: Syndicates of this kind are instituted by the law of June 25, 1865, "between
proprietors interested in the execution and maintenance of public works: 1st, Protection against
the sea, inundations, torrents, and navigable or non-navigable rivers; 2d, Works in deepening,
repairing, and regulating canals and non-navigable water-courses, and ditches for draining
and irrigation; 3d, Works for the drainage of marshes; 4th, Locks and other provisions necessary
in working salt marshes; 5th, Drainage of wet and unhealthy ground."--"Proprietors interested
in the execution of the above-mentioned works may unite in an authorized syndical company,
either on the demand of one or of several among them, or on the initiative of the prefect."--(Instead
of authorized, we must read forced, and we then find that the association may be imposed on
all interested parties, on the demand of one alone, or even without any one's demand.)--Like
the Annecy building, these syndicates enable one to reach the fundamental element of local
society. Cf. the law of September 26, 1807 (on the drainage of marshes), and the law of April
21, 1810 (on mines and the two owners of the mine, one of the surface and the other of the
subsoil, both likewise partners, and no less forcibly so through physical solidarity.)]

[Footnote 4111: See "The Revolution," vol. I., passim. (Ed. Laff. I. pp. 315-445).]

[Footnote 4112: Two kinds of police must be distinguished one from the other. The first is
general and belongs to the State: its business is to repress and prevent, outside and inside,
all aggression against private and public property. The second is municipal, and belongs to
the local society: its business is to see to the proper use of the public roads, and other
matters, which, like water, air, and light, are enjoyed in common; it undertakes, also, to
forestall the risks and dangers of imprudence, negligence, and filth, which any aggregation
of men never fails to engender. (Creation of the posts of municipal mayor and assessors by
the king, in 1692, for a money consideration.) "These offices were obtained by individuals,
along with hereditary title, now attached to communities, that is to say, bought in by these,"
which put in their possession the right of election.--The king frequently took back these offices
which he had sold, and sold them over again. In 1771, especially, he takes them back, and,
it seems, to keep them forever; but he always reserves the right of alienating them for money.
For example (Augustin Thierry, "Documens sur l'histoire du tiers État," III., 319), an act
of the royal council, dated October 1, 1772, accepts 70,000 francs from the town of Amiens
for the repurchase of the installment of its magistracies, and defining these magistracies,
as well as the mode of election according to which the future incumbents shall be appointed.
Provence frequently bought back its municipal liberties in the same fashion, and, for a hundred
years, expended for this purpose 12,500,000 livres. In 1772, the king once more established
the venality of the municipal offices: but, on the Parliament of Aix remonstrating, in 1774,
he returned their old rights and franchises to the communities.--Cf. Guyot, "Répertoire de
jurisprudence" (1784), articles, Echevins, Capitouls, Conseillers.]

[Footnote 4115: Thibaudeau, p.72 (words of the First Consul at a meeting of the Council of
State, Pluviôse 14, year X).]

[Footnote 4116: Roederer, III., 439 (Note of Pluviôse 28, year VIII), ib., 443 "The pretended
organic sénatus-consulte of Aug. 4, 1802, put an end to notability by instituting electoral
colleges... The First Consul was really recognized as the grand-elector of the notability,"]

[Footnote 4117: Any dictator or dictator's draftsman will, upon reading this understand how
easy it is to make a sham constitution and sham electoral systems for a de facto dictatorship.(SR.)]

[Footnote 4118: Thibaudeau, 72, 289 (words of the First Consul at a meeting of the Council
of State, Thermidor 16, year X).]

[Footnote 4119: Ibid., p. 293. Sénatus-consulte of Thermidor 16, year X, and of Fructidor 19,
year X.]

[Footnote 4120: Decree of January 17, 1806, article 40.]

[Footnote 4121: Aucoc, "Conférence sur l'administration et le droit administratif," §§ 101,
162, 165. In our legislative system the council of the arrondissement has not become a civil
personality, while it has scarcely any other object than to apportion direct taxes among the
communes of the arrondissement]

[Footnote 4122: Sénatus-consulte of Thermidor 16, year X.]

[Footnote 4123: Decree of May 13, 1806, title III., article 32.]

[Footnote 4124: Thibaudeau, ibid., 294 (Speech of the First Consul to the Council of State,
Thermidor 16, year X). "What has become of the men of the Revolution? Once out of place, they
have been entirely neglected: they have nothing left; they have no support, no natural refuge.
Look at Barras, Reubell, etc." The electoral colleges are to furnish them with the asylum they
lack. "Now is the time to elect the largest number of men of the Revolution; the longer we
wait, the fewer there will be.... With the exception of some of them, who have appeared on
a grand stage,... who have signed some treaty of peace... the rest are all isolated and in
obscurity. That is an important gap which must be filled up.... It is for this reason that
I have instituted the Legion of Honor."]

[Footnote 4125: Baron de Vitrolles, "Memoires," preface, XXI. (SR.)]

[Footnote 4128: The following document shows the sense and aim of the change, which goes on
after the year VIII, also the contrast between both administrative staffs. (Archives Nationales,
F 7, 3219; letter of M. Alquier to the First Consul, Pluviose 18, year VIII.) M. Alquier, on
his way to Madrid, stops at Toulouse and sends a report to the authorities of Haute-Garonne:
"I was desirous of seeing the central administration. I found there the ideas and language
of 1793. Two personages, Citizens Barreau and Desbarreaux, play an active part then. Up to
1792, the first was a shoemaker, and owed his political fortune simply to his audacity and
revolutionary frenzy. The second, Desbarreaux, was a comedian of Toulouse, his principal role
being that of valets. In the month of Prairial, year III, he was compelled to go down on his
knees on the stage and ask pardon for having made incendiary speeches at some previous period
in the decadal temple. The public, not deeming his apology sufficient, drove him out of the
theater. He now combines with his function of departmental administrator the post of cashier
for the actors, which thus brings him in 1200 francs... The municipal councilors are not charged
with lack of probity: but they are derived from too law a class and have too little regard
for themselves to obtain consideration from the public... The commune of Toulouse is very impatient
at being governed by weak, ignorant men, formerly mixed in with the crowd, and whom, probably,
it is urgent to send back to it.... It is remarkable that, in a city of such importance, which
provides so large a number of worthy citizens of our sort of capacity and education, only men
are selected for public duties who, with respect to instruction, attainments, and breeding,
offer no guarantee whatever to the government and no inducement to win public consideration."]

[Footnote 4129: "Correspondance de Napoléon," No.4474, note dictated to Lucien, minister of
the interior, year VIII.]

[Footnote 4130: Cf. "Procés-verbaux des conseil généraux" of the year VIII, and especially
of the year IX. "Many of the cross roads have entirely disappeared at the hands of the neighboring
owners of the land. The paved roads are so much booty." (for example, Vosges, p.429, year IX.)
"The roads of the department are in such a bad state that the landowners alongside carry off
the stones to build their houses and wall in their inheritance. They encroach on the roads
daily; the ditches are cultivated by them the same as their own property."]

[Footnote 4131: Laws of February 29--March 9, 1804 And February 28--March 10, 1805.]

[Footnote 4132: Laws of July 23, 1802, and of February 27, 1811.]

[Footnote 4133: "Correspondance de Napoléon," No. 4474 (note dictated to Lucien).]

[Footnote 4134: Decree of March 1, 1808: "Are counts by right, all ministers, senators, councilors
of state for life, presidents of the corps Legislatif, and archbishops. Are barons by right,
all bishops. May become barons, after ten years of service, all first presidents and attorney
generals, the mayors of the thirty-six principal towns. (In 1811, instead of 36, there are
52 principal towns.) May also become barons, the presidents and members of the department electoral
colleges who have attended three sessions of these colleges."]

[Footnote 4135: Decree of Thermidor 4, year X.]

[Footnote 4136: Law of Pluviôse 28, year VIII.]

[Footnote 4137: "Procés-verbaux des conseils généraux" of the years VIII and X. (The second
series drawn up after those propounded by the minister Chaptal, is much more complete and furnishes
an historical document of the highest importance.)]

[Footnote 4138: "Statistiques des préfets" (from the years IX to XIII, about 40 volumes).]

[Footnote 4139: Beugnot, "Mémoires," I., 363.]

[Footnote 4140: Faber, ibid., 127.--Cf. Charlotte de Sohr, "Napoleon en 1811" (details and
anecdotes on Napoleon's journey through Belgium and Holland).]

[Footnote 4141: Beugnot, I., 380, 384. "He struck the good Germans dumb with admiration, unable
to comprehend how it was that their interests had become so familiar to him and with what superiority
he treated them."]

[Footnote 4142: Beugnot, ibid., I., 395. Everywhere, on the Emperor's passage (1811), the impression
experienced was a kind of shock as at the sight of a wonderful apparition.]

[Footnote 4143: Thiers, "Histoire du Consulat et l'Empire," XVI., 246 (January, 1813). "A word
to the prefect, who transmitted this to one of the municipal councilors of his town, was enough
to insure an offer from some large town and have this imitated throughout the empire. Napoleon
had an idea that he could get towns and cantons to offer him troops of horse, armed and equipped."--In
fact, this offer was voted with shouts by the Paris municipal council and, through contagion,
in the provinces. As to voting this freely it suffices to remark how the annexed towns voted,
which, six months later, are to rebel. Their offers are not the least. For instance, Amsterdam
offers 100 horsemen, Hamburg 100, Rotterdam 50, the Hague 40, Leyden 24, Utrecht 20, Dusseldorf
12.--The horsemen furnished are men enlisted for money; 16,000 are obtained, and the sum voted
suffices to purchase additionally 22,000 horses and 22,000 equipments.--To obtain this money,
the prefect himself apportions the requisite sum among those in his department who pay the
most taxes, at the rate of from 600 to 1000 francs per head. On these arbitrary requisitions
and a great many others, either in money or in produce, and on the sentiments of the farmers
and landed proprietors in the South, especially after 1813, cf. the "Mémoires de M. Villèle,"
vol. I., passim.]

[Footnote 4144: Comte Joseph d'Estourmel, "Souvenirs de France et d'Italie," 240. The general
council of Rouen was the first to suggest the vote for guards of honor. Assembled spontaneously
(meetings are always spontaneous), its members pass an enthusiastic address. "The example was
found to be excellent; the address was published in the Moniteur, and sent to all the prefects....
The councils were obliged to meet, which generously disposed of other people's children, and
very worthy persons, myself first of all, thought that they might join in this shameful purpose,
to such an extent had imperial fanaticism fascinated them and perverted consciences!"]

[Footnote 4145: Archives nationales (state of accounts of the prefects and reports of the general
police commissioners, F7, 5014 and following records.--Reports of senators on their senatoreries,
AF, IV., 1051, and following records).--These papers disclose at different dates the state
of minds and of things in the provinces. Of all these reports, that of Roederer on the senatorerie
of Caen is the most instructive, and gives the most details on the three departments composing
it. (Printed in his "æuvres complètes," vol. "To those who objected that a tax could only be
made according to law, Napoleon replied that it was not a tax, since there were no other taxes
than those which the law established, and that this one (the extra assessment of a quarter
of the produce of timber) was established by decree. It is only a master, and an absolute master,
who could reason in this way."]

[Footnote 4152: Law of March 20, 1813. (Woods, meadows, and pasture-grounds used by the population
in common are excepted, also buildings devoted to public use, promenades, and public gardens.)--The
law takes rural possessions, houses and factories, rented and producing an income. Thiers,
XVI., 279. The five percents at this time were worth 75 francs, and 138 millions of these gave
a revenue of 9 millions, about the annual income derived by the communes from their confiscated
real estate.]

[Footnote 4153: Aucoc, ibid., §§ 55 and 135.]

CHAPTER II. LOCAL SOCIETY SINCE 1830.

I. Introduction of Universal suffrage.

     Local society since 1830.--Introduction of a new internal
     motor.--Subordinate to the external motor.--Advantageous
     under the system of universal suffrage.

Neither lips nor heart are capable of pronouncing the above invigorating and conclusive phrase
after a silence of 30 years. That local society ought to be a private association, does not
interest those who are concerned, while the legislator does not permit it. Indeed, after the
year VIII (1799), the State (Napoleon) introduces into the machine the new motivation described
above. After the revolution of 1830,[4201] the municipal and general councilors become elective
and are appointed by a limited suffrage; after the revolution of 1848, they are elected by
universal suffrage.[4202] After the revolution of 1870,[4203] each municipal council elects
its own mayor, while the council-general, whose powers are enlarged, leaves in its place, during
its vacations, a standing committee who arrange with, and govern along with, the prefect. Here,
in local society, is a superadded internal motor, working from below, whilst the first one
is external and works from above; from now on, both are to work together and in accord.--But,
in reality, the second (the council-general) remains subordinate; moreover, it does not suit
the machine[4204] and the machine does not suit it; it is only a superfluity, an inconvenient
and cumbersome intruder, nearly always useless, and often mischievous. Its influence is feeble
and of little effect; too many brakes are attached to it; its force diminishes through the
complexity of its numerous wheels; it fails in giving action; it cannot but little more than
impede or moderate other impulses, those of the external motor, sometimes as it should, and
sometimes the contrary. Most frequently, even nowadays (1889), it is of no efficiency whatever.
Three-quarters of the municipal councils, for three-fourths of their business, hold sessions
only to give signatures. Their pretended deliberations are simply a parade formality; the incentive
and direction continue to come from without, and from above; under the third Republic, as under
the Restoration and the first Empire, it is always the central State which governs the local
society; amid all the wrangling and disputes, in spite of passing conflicts it is, and remains,
the initiator, mover, leader, controller, accountant, and executor of every undertaking, the
preponderating power in the department as well as in the commune, and with what deplorable
results we all know.--There is still another and more serious result. Nowadays, its interference
is an advantage, for should it renounce its preponderance this would pass over to the other
power which, since this has become vested in a numerical majority, is mere blind and brutal
force; abandoned to itself and without any counter-weight, its ascendancy would be disastrous,
we would see reappearing along with the blunders of 1789, the outrages, usurpations, and distress
of 1790, 1791 and 1792.[4205]--In any event, there is this advantage in despotic centralization,
that it still preserves us from democratic autonomy. In the present state of institutions and
minds, the former system, objectionable as it may be, is our last retreat against the greater
evil of the latter.

II. Universal suffrage.

     Application of universal suffrage to local society.--Two
     assessments for the expenses of local society.--The fixed
     amount of one should in equity be equal to the average sum
     of the other.--Practically, the sum of one is kept too low.-
     -How the new régime provides for local expenditure.--The
     "additional centimes."--How the small taxpayer is relieved
     in town and country.--His quota in local expenditure reduced
     to the minimum.--His quota of local benefits remains
     intact.--Hence the large or average taxpayer bears, beside
     his own burden, that of the relieved small taxpayer.--Number
     of those relieved.--The extra burden of the large and
     average taxpayer is alms-giving.--The relief of the small
     taxpayer is a levy of alms.

In effect, direct universal suffrage, counted by heads, is in local society a discordant element,
a monstrous system, to which it is adverse. Constituted as this is, not by human judgment,
but by the preponderance of numbers and their force, its mechanism is determined beforehand;
it excludes certain wheels and connections.[4206] That is why the legislator must write laws
which reflect the nature of our existence, or, at least, translate this as closely as he can,
without any gross contradiction. Nature herself presents him with ready-made statutes.[4207]
His business is to read these properly; he has already transcribed the apportionment of burdens;
he can now transcribe the apportionment of rights.

So, we have seen, local society renders two distinct services[4208], which, that the expenses
of both may be met, require two distinct assessments, one personal and the other real, one
levied on everybody and of which the amount is alike for all, and the other levied only on
those whose amount is based on what he spends, on the importance of his business, and on the
income from his real estate.--In strict equity, the amount of the former should be equal to
the average amount of the latter; in effect, as has been shown, the services defrayed by the
former are as many, as diverse, and as precious, still more vital, and not less costly than
those of which the latter is the price. Of the two interests which they represent, each, did
it stand alone, would be obliged to secure the same services, to take upon itself the whole
of the work; neither would obtain more in the dividend, and each would have to pay the whole
of the expense. Accordingly, each gains as much as the other in the physical solidarity which
binds them together. Hence, in the legal bond which unites them they enter into it on an equal
footing, on condition that each is burdened or relived as much as the other, on condition that
if the latter assumes one-half of the expense the former shall assume the other half, on condition
that if the latter quota on each one hundred francs expended against calamities and for public
roads is 50 francs, the former quota shall also be 50 francs.--Practically, however, this is
impossible. Three times out of four the former levy with this apportionment would not be returned;
through prudence as well as humanity, the legislator is bound not to overburden the poor. Recently,
in organizing the general tax and the revenue of the State, he has looked out for them; now,
in organizing the local tax and the revenue of the department or of the commune, he looks out
for them to a still greater extent.

In the new financial scheme, so many centimes, added to each franc of direct tax, form the
principal resource of the department and commune, and it is through this extra charge that
each taxpayer pays his quota of local expenditure. Now, there is no surcharge on the personal
tax, no additional centimes. Under this heading, the laborer without any property or income,
the workman who lives in lodgings, on his wages, and from day to day, contributes nothing to
the expenses of his commune or department. In vain do "additional centimes" pour down on other
branches of direct taxation; they are not grafted on this one, and do not suck away the substance
of the poor.[4209]--There is the same regard for the half poor, in relation to the artisan
who furnishes his own room, but who lodges in an upper story, and in relation to the peasant
whose hovel or cottage has but one door and one window.[4210] Their rate of taxation on doors
and windows is very low, purposely reduced, kept below one franc a year, while the rate of
their personal tax is scarcely higher. "Additional centimes" may be imposed on so small a principal
and be multiplied in vain, never will they reach more than an insignificant amount.-Not only
are the destitute relieved of both principal and "additional centimes," the verified poor,
those who are registered and are helped, or should be, that is to say 2,470,000 persons;[4211]
but, again, others, by hundreds of thousands, whom the municipal council judges incapable of
paying.--Even when people possess but a small piece of land, they are also relieved of the
land tax and of the numerous additional centimes which increase it. Such is the case with those
who are infirm or burdened with a family. The exchequer, so as not to convert them into beggars
and vagabonds, avoids expropriation, selling out their concrete hovel, vegetable garden, and
small field of potatoes or cabbages; it gives them receipts gratis, or, at least, refrains
from prosecuting them.[4212] In this way the poor peasant, although a land-owner, again exempts
himself, or is exempted from his local indebtedness. In truth, he pays nothing, or nearly nothing,
otherwise than by prestations (payments) in money or in kind; that is to say, by three days'
work on the district roads, which, if he pays in kind, are not worth more than 50 sous.[4213]
Add to this his portion, very small and often null, of the additional centimes on the tax on
doors and windows, on the personal tax, and on the tax on real estate, in all 4 or 5 francs
a year. Such is the amount by which the poor or half-poor taxpayer in the villages liberates
himself toward his department and commune.--In the towns, he apparently pays more, owing to
the octroi. But, at first, there are only 1525 communes out of 36,000 in which the octroi[4214]
has been established; while in the beginning, under the Directory and Consulate, it was revived
only on his account, for his benefit, in behalf of public charity, to defray the expenses of
asylums and hospitals ruined by revolutionary confiscation. It was then "an octroi for charity,"
in fact as well as in name, like the surplus tax on theater seats and tickets, established
at the same time and for the same purpose; it still to-day preserves the stamp of its first
institution. Bread, the indispensable provision for the poor, is not subjected to the octroi
nor the materials for making it, either grain or flour, nor milk, fruits, vegetables, or codfish,
while there is only a light tax on butcher's meat. Even on beverages, where the octroi is heavier,
it remains, like all indirect taxes, nearly proportional and semi-optional. In effect, it is
simply an increase of the tax on beverages, so many additional centimes per franc on the sum
of indirect taxation, as warrantable as the impost itself, as tolerable, and for the same motives.[4215]
For the greater the sobriety of the taxpayer, the less is he affected by this tax. At Paris,
where the increase is excessive, and adds to the 6 centimes paid to the state, on each quart
of wine, 12 centimes paid to the city; if he drinks but one quart a day, he pays, under this
heading, into the city treasury 43 francs 80 centimes per annum: but, as compensation for this,
he is free of personal tax of 11 3/4%, which this adds to the amount of each rental of the
11 3/4%, whereby this would have added to his rent, and therefore 47 francs per annum as a
rent of 400 francs. Thus what he has paid with one hand he gets back with the other. Now, at
Paris, all rentals under 400 francs[4216] are thus free of any personal tax; all rentals between
400 and 1000 francs are more or less free, and, in the other octroi towns, an analogous discharge
reimburses to the small taxpayers a portion more or less great of the sum they pay to the octroi.--Accordingly,
in the towns as in the country, they are favored at one time through fiscal relief and at another
through administrative favor, now through compulsory deduction and now through total or partial
reimbursement. Always, and very wisely, the legislator apportions the burden according to the
strength of the shoulders; he relieves them as much as he can, at first, of the general tax,
and next, which is still better, of the local tax. Hence, in local expenditure, their quota
diminishes out of all proportion and is reduced to the minimum. Nevertheless, their quota of
local benefit remains full and entire; at this insignificant price they enjoy the public highways
and profit by all the precautions taken against physical ills; each profits by this personally,
equally with any millionaire. Each personally receives as much in the great dividend of security,
health, and convenience, in the fruit of the vast works of utility and enjoyment due to improved
communications, which preserve health, assist traffic, and beautify the locality, and without
which, in town as well as in the country, life would be impossible or intolerable.

But these works which cost so much, these defensive operations and apparatus against inundations,
fires, epidemics, and contagions, these 500,000 kilometers of district and department roads,
these dikes, quays, bridges, public gardens, and promenades, this paving, drainage, sweeping
and lighting, these aqueducts and supplies of drinkable water, all this is paid for by somebody,
and, since it is not done by the small taxpayer, it is the large or average taxpayer who pays
for it. The latter then, bears, besides his obligatory weight, a gratuitous surplus burden,
consisting of the weight of which the other is relieved.

Evidently the greater the number of the relieved, the heavier will be this overweight, and
the relieved count by millions. Two millions and a half of declared poor[4217] are relieved
of any direct tax, and, therefore, of all the centimes which have just increased the burden.
Out of 8 millions of real-estate owners,[4218] 3 millions, considered as insolvent, pay neither
the real estate tax nor the centimes which it comprises. In the octroi towns, it is not the
minority but the majority of the inhabitants who are relieved in the way just described; in
Paris,[4219] out of 685,000 rentals, 625,000, in other terms twelve out of thirteen lodgings,
are exempt, wholly or in part, from the personal tax, the principal and "additional centimes."
On each franc of this principal there are 96 of these superadded centimes for the benefit of
the town and department and because the department and the town expend a good deal, and because
receipts are essential for the settlement of these accounts, this or that sum is noted beforehand
in every chapter of receipts, and the main thing now is to have this paid in, and it must be
paid by somebody; it matters little whether the peasants are few or numerous; if among thirteen
taxable persons there is only one that pays, so much the worse for him, for he must pay for
himself and the other twelve. Such is the case in Paris, which accounts for the "additional
centimes" here being so numerous,[4220] owing to there being less than 60,000 rentals for the
acquittance of the entire tax, and, besides paying their own debt, they must discharge the
indebtedness of 625,000 other rentals, the tax on which is reduced or null.--Frequently, before
the Revolution, some rich convent or philanthropic seignior would pay the taxes of his poor
neighbors out of his own pocket; willingly or not, 60,000 Parisians, more or less well lodged,
now hand over the same sum, bestow the same charity, on 625,000 thousand badly or only tolerably
lodged Parisians; among these 60,000 benefactors whom the exchequer obliges to be benevolent,
34,800 who pay from 1000 to 3000 francs rent, bestow, under this heading, a pretty large sum
for charitable purposes, while 14,800, who pay more than 3000 francs rent, pay a very large
one. Other branches of direct taxation, in the country as well as in the city, present the
same spectacle: it is always the rich or the well-to-do taxpayers who, through their over-tax,
more or less completely relieve the poor or straitened taxpayers; it is always the owners of
large or small properties, those who pay heavy or average licenses, the occupants of lodgings
with more than five openings,[4221] and whose locative value surpasses 1000 francs, who in
local expenditure pay besides their own dues the dues of others and, through their additional
centimes, almost entirely defray the expenses of the department and commune.--This is nearly
always the case in a local society, except when it chances to possess an abundant income, arising
from productive real estate, and is able to provide for its wants without taxing its members;
apart from this rare exception, it is forced to tax some in order to relieve others. In other
words, the same as with other enterprises, it manufactures and sells its product but, just
the reverse of other enterprises, it sells the product, an equal quantity of the same product,
that is to say, equal protection against the same calamities, and the equal enjoyment of the
same public highway, at unequal prices, very dear to a few, moderately dear to many, at cost
price to a large number, and with a discount to the mass; to this last class of consumers the
discount goes on increasing like the emptiness of their purse; to the last of all, extremely
numerous, the goods are delivered almost gratis, or even for nothing.

But to this inequality of prices may correspond the inequality of rights, and compensation
will come, the balance may be restored, distributive justice may be applied, if, in the government
of the enterprise, the parts assigned are not equal, if each member sees his portion of influence
growing or diminishing along with the weight of his charge, if the regulations, graduating
authority according to the scale of the levies, assigns few votes to those who pay the lowest
quotas of expense and receive alms, and many votes to those who give alms and pay the largest
quotas of the expenditure.

III. Equity in taxation.

     Possible compensation in the other side of the scale.--What
     the distribution of rights should be according to the
     principle of distributive justice.--In every association of
     stock-owners.--In local society confined to its natural
     object.--In local society charged with supplementary
     functions.--The local statue in England and Prussia.--The
     exchange equitable when burdens are compensated by rights.

Such is the rule in every association of interests, even in stock companies in which the distribution
of charges allows of no favor or disfavor to any associate. It must be noted that, in these
companies, co-operation is not compulsory, but voluntary; the associates are not, as in the
local society, conscripts enlisted under the constraint of physical solidarity, but subscribers
bound together under the impulsion of a deliberate preference, each remaining in its of his
own free will just as he entered it; if he wishes to leave it he has only to sell his stock;
the fact of his keeping this confirms his subscription, and, thus holding on to it, he daily
subscribes anew to the statute. Here, then, is a perfectly free association; its is accordingly
perfectly equitable, and its statute serves as a model for others.

Now this statute always makes a distinction between the small and the large stockholders; it
always attributes a greater share of authority and influence to those who share most largely
in the risks and expenses; in principle, the number of votes in confers on each associate is
proportionate to the number of shares of which he is the owner or bearer.--All the stronger
is the reason why this principle should be embodied in the statutes of a society which, like
the local community, diminishes the burden of the small taxpayer through its reductions, and
increases by its extra taxation the burden of the large or average taxpayer; when the appointment
of managers is handed over to universal suffrage, counted by heads, the large and average taxpayers
are defrauded of their dues and deprived of their rights, more so by far and more deeply wronged
than the bearer or owner of a thousand shares in an omnibus or gas company if, on voting at
a meeting of stockholders, his vote did not count for more than that of the owner or bearer
of a single share.--

How is it then when a local society adds to its natural and unavoidable purpose an optional
and supplementary purpose;

* when, increasing its load, it undertakes to defray the cost of public charity and of primary
education;

* when, to support this additional cost, it multiplies the additional centimes;

* when the large or average taxpayer pays alone, or nearly alone, for this benevolent work
by which he does not benefit;

* when the small taxpayer pays nothing, or next to nothing, to this benevolent work by which
he does benefit;

* when, in voting for the expense thus apportioned, each taxpayer, whatever the amount of his
contribution, has one vote and only one?

In this case, powers, benefits, reductions, and exemptions, all the advantages are on one side,
that of the poor and half-poor forming the majority and who if not restrained from above, will
persistently abuse their numerical force to augment their advantages, at the increasing expense
of the rich or well-do-do minority. In the future, in the local society, the average or large
taxpayer is no longer an associate but a victim; were he free to choose he would not enter
into it; he would like to go away and establish himself elsewhere; but were he to enter others,
near or remote, his condition would be no better. He remains, accordingly, where he is, physically
present, but absent in feeling; he takes no part in deliberate meetings; his zeal has died
out; he withholds from public affairs that surplus of vigilant attention, that spontaneous
and ready collaboration which he would have contributed gratis; he lets matters go along without
him, just as it happens; he remains there just what he is, a workable, taxable individual in
capricious hands, in short, a passive subject who gives and has become resigned.--For this
reason, in countries where an encroaching democracy has not yet abolished or perverted the
notion of equity, the local statute applies the fundamental rule of an equitable exchange;
it lays down the principle that

he who pays commands, and in proportion to the sum he pays.[4222]

In England, a surplus of votes is awarded to those most heavily taxed, even six votes to one
voter; in Prussia, local taxation is divided into thirds, and, accordingly, the taxpayers into
three groups, the first one composed of heavy taxpayers, few in number, and who pay the first
third, the second composed of average taxpayers, average in number, and who pay the second
third, and the third composed of the great number of small taxpayers, who pay the last third.[4223]
To each of these groups is assigned the same number of suffrages in the commune election, or
the same number of representatives in the commune representation. Through this approximate
balance of legal burdens and of legal rights, the two sides of the scales are nearly level,
the level which distributive justice demands, and the level which the state, special interpreter,
sole arbiter and universal minister of distributive justice, should establish when, in the
local community, it imposes, rectifies, or maintains the articles in accordance with which
it derives its income and governs.

IV. On unlimited universal suffrage.

     How unlimited universal suffrage found its way into local
     society.--Object and mode of the French legislator.

If the government, in France, does just the opposite, it is at the height of a violent and
sudden revolution, forced by the party in power and by popular prejudice, through deductive
reasoning, and through contagion. According to revolutionary and French usage, the legislator
was bound to institute uniformity and to make things symmetrical; having placed universal suffrage
in political society, he was likewise determined to place it in local society. He had been
ordered to apply an abstract principle, that is to say, to legislate according to a summary,
superficial, and verbal notion which, purposely curtailed and simplified to excess, did not
correspond with its aim. He obeyed and did nothing more; he made no effort outside of his instructions.
He did not propose to himself to restore local society to its members, to revive it, to make
it a living body, capable of spontaneous, co-ordinate, voluntary action, and, to this end,
provided with indispensable organs. He did not even take the trouble to imagine, how it really
is, I mean by this, complex and diverse and inversely to legislators before 1789, and adversely
to legislators before and after 1789 outside of France, against all the teachings of experience,
against the evidence of nature, he refused to recognize the fact that, in France, mankind are
of two species, the people of the towns and the people of the country, and that, therefore,
there are two types of local society, the urban commune and the rural commune. He was not disposed
to take this capital difference into consideration; he issued decrees for the Frenchman in
general, for the citizen in himself, for fictive men, so reduced that the statute which suits
them can nowhere suit the actual and complete man. At one stroke, the legislative shears cut
out of the same stuff, according to the same pattern, thirty-six thousand examples of the same
coat, one coat indifferently for every commune, whatever its shape, a coat too small for the
city and too large for the village, disproportionate in both cases, and useless beforehand,
because it could not fit very large bodies, nor very small ones. Nevertheless, once dispatched
from Paris, people had to put the coat on and wear it; it must answer for good or for ill,
each donning his own for lack of another better adjusted; hence the strangest attitudes for
each, and, in the long run, a combination of consequences which neither governors nor the governed
had foreseen.

V. Rural or urban communes.

     No distinction between the rural and the urban commune.
     --Effects of the law on the rural commune.--Disproportion
     between the intelligence of its elected representatives and
     the work imposed upon them.--The mayor and the municipal
     council.--Lack of qualified members.--The secretary of the
     mayoralty.--The chief or under chief of the prefectorial
     bureau.

Let us consider these results in turn in the small and in the great communes; clear enough
and distinct at the two extremities of the scale, they blend into each other at intermediate
degrees, because here they combine together, but in different proportions, according as the
commune, higher or lower in the scale, comes nearer to the village or to the city.--On this
territory, too, subdivided since 1789, and, so to say, crumbled to pieces by the Constituent
Assembly, the small communes are enormous in number; among the 36,000, more than 27,000 have
less than 1000 inhabitants, and of these, more than 16,000 have less than 500 inhabitants.[4224]
Whoever has traveled over France, or lived in this country, sees at once what sort of men compose
such purely rural groups; he has only to recall physiognomies and attitudes to know to what
extent in these rude brains, rendered torpid by the routine of manual labor and oppressed by
the cares of daily life, how narrow and obstructed are the inlets to the mind; how limited
is their information in the way of facts; how, in the way of ideas, the acquisition of them
is slow; what hereditary distrust separates the illiterate mass from the lettered class; what
an almost insurmountable wall the difference of education, of habits, and of manners interposes
in France between the blouse and the dress-coat; why, if each commune contains a few cultivated
individuals and a few notable proprietors, universal suffrage sets them aside, or at least
does not seek them out for the municipal council or the mayoralty.--Before 1830, when the prefect
appointed the municipal councilors and the mayor, these were always on hand; under the monarchy
of July and a limited suffrage, they were still on hand, at least for the most part; under
the second Empire, whatever the elected municipal council might be, the mayor, who was appointed
by the prefect, and even outside of this council, might be one of the least ignorant and least
stupid even in the commune. At the present day (1889), it is only accidentally and by chance
that a noble or bourgeois, in a few provinces and in certain communes, may become mayor or
municipal councilor; it is, however, essential that he should be born on the soil, long established
there, resident and popular. Everywhere else the numerical majority, being sovereign, tends
to select its candidates from among the average people: in the village, he is a man of average
rural intelligence, and, mostly, in the village a municipal council which, as narrow-minded
as its electors, elects a mayor equally as narrow-minded as itself Such are, from now on, the
representatives and directors of communal interests; except when they themselves are affected
by personal interests to which they are sensitive, their inertia is only equaled by their incapacity[4225]

Four times a year a bundle of elaborately drawn papers, prepared by the prefecture, are submitted
to these innately blind paralytics, large sheets divided into columns from top to bottom, with
tabular headings from right to left, and covered with printed texts and figures in writing--details
of receipts and expenses, general centimes, special centimes, obligatory centimes, optional
centimes, ordinary centimes, extra centimes, with their sources and employment; preliminary
budget, final budget, corrected budget, along with legal references, regulations, and decisions
bearing on each article. In short, a methodical table as specific as possible and highly instructive
to a jurist or accountant, but perfect jargon to peasants, most of whom can scarcely write
their name and who, on Sundays, are seen standing before the advertisement board[4226] trying
to spell out the Journal Officiel, whose abstract phrases, beyond their reach, pass over their
heads in aerial and transient flight, like some confused rustling of vague and unknown forms.
To guide them in political life, much more difficult than in private life, they require a similar
guide to the one they take in the difficult matters of their individual life, a legal or business
adviser, one that is qualified and competent, able to understand the prefecture documents,
sitting alongside of them to explain their budget, rights and limits of their rights, the financial
resources, legal expedients, and consequences of a law; one who can arrange their debates,
make up their accounts, watch daily files of bills, attend to their business at the county
town, throughout the entire series of legal formalities and attendance on the bureaus,--in
short, some trusty person, familiar with technicalities, who they might choose to select.--Such
a person was found in Savoy, before the annexation to France, a notary or lawyer who, practicing
in the neighborhood or at the principal town, and with five or six communes for clients, visited
them in turn, helped them with his knowledge and intelligence, attended their meetings and,
besides, served them as scribe, like the present secretary of the mayoralty, for about the
same pay, amounting in all to about the same total of fees or salaries.[4227]--At the present
time, there is nobody in the municipal council to advise and give information to its members;
the schoolmaster is their secretary, and he cannot be, and should not be, other than a scribe.
He reads in a monotonous tone of voice the long financial enigma which French public book-keeping,
too perfect, offers to their divination, and which nobody, save one who is educated to it,
can clearly comprehend until after weeks of study. They listen all agog. Some, adjusting their
spectacles, try to pick out among so many articles the one they want, the amount of taxes they
have to pay. The sum is too large, the assessments are excessive; it is important that the
number of additional centimes should be reduced, and therefore that less money should be expended.
Hence, if there is any special item of expense which can be got rid of by a refusal, they set
it aside by voting No, until some new law or decree from above obliges them to say Yes. But,
as things go, nearly all the expenses designated on the paper are obligatory; willingly or
not, these must be met, and there is no way to pay them outside of the additional centimes;
however numerous these are, vote them they must and sanction the centimes inscribed. They accordingly
affix their signatures, not with trust but with mistrust, with resignation, and out of pure
necessity. Abandoned to their natural ignorance, the twenty-seven thousand petty municipal
councilors of the country are no more passive, more inert, more constrained than ever; deprived
of the light which, formerly, the choice of the prefect or a restricted suffrage could still
throw into the darkness around them, there remains to them only one safe tutor or conductor;
and this final guide is the official of the bureaus, especially this or that old, permanent
chief, or under clerk, who is perfectly familiar with his files of papers. With about four
hundred municipal councils to lead, one may imagine what he will do with them: nothing except
to drive them like a flock of sheep into a pen of printed regulations, or urge them on mechanically,
in lots, according to his instructions, he himself being as automatic and as much in a rut
as they are.

VI. The larger Communes.

     Effects of the law on the urban commune.--Disproportion
     between the administrative capacity of its elected
     representatives and the work imposed on them.--Lack of a
     special and permanent manager.--The municipal council and
     the mayor.--The general council and the intermediary
     committee.--The prefect.--His dominant rule.--His obligatory
     concessions.--His principal aim.--Bargains between the
     central authority and the local Jacobins.--Effect on this on
     local government, on the officials, and in local finances.

Let us now look at the other side of the scale, on the side of the large urban communes, of
which there are 223, with above 10,000 inhabitants, 90 of these above 20,000 inhabitants, 9
of the latter above 100,000 inhabitants, and Paris, which has 2,300,000.[4228] We see at the
first glance cast upon an average specimen of these human anthills, a town containing from
40,000 to 50,000 souls, how vast and complex the collective undertaking becomes, how many principal
and accessory services the communal society must co-ordinate and unite together in order to
secure to its members the advantages of public roads and insure their protection against spreading
calamities:

* Maintenance and repairs of these roads, the straightening, laying-out, paving, and drainage,
the constructions and expense for sewers, quays, and rivers, and often for a commercial harbor;

* the negotiations and arrangements with departments and with the state for this or that harbor,
canal, dike, or insane asylum; the contracts with cab, omnibus, and tramway companies and with
telephone and house-lighting companies; the street-lighting, artesian wells and aqueducts;

* the city police, supervision and rules for using public highways, and orders and agents for
preventing men from injuring each other when collected together in large assemblies in the
streets, in the markets, at the theater, in any public place, whether coffee-houses or taverns;

* the firemen and machinery for conflagrations; the sanitary measures against contagion, and
precautions, long beforehand to insure hygiene during epidemics;

* and, as extra burdens and abuses, the establishment, direction and support of primary schools,
colleges, public lectures, libraries, theaters, hospitals, and other institutions which should
be supported and governed by different associations; at the very least, the appropriations
to these establishments and therefore a more or less legitimate and more or less imperative
intervention in their internal management.

Such are the great undertakings which form a whole, which bear alike on the present, past,
and future budget of the commune, and which, as so many distinct branches of every considerable
enterprise, require, for proper execution, to have their continuity and connection always present
in the thoughtful and directing mind which has them in charge.[4229] Experience shows that,
in the great industrial or financial companies, in the Bank of France, in the Crédit Lyonnais,
and in the insurance, navigation, and railroad companies, the best way to accomplish this end
is a permanent manager or director, always present, engaged or accepted by the administrative
board on understood conditions, a special, tried man who, sure of his place for a long period,
and with a reputation to maintain, gives his whole time, faculties, and zeal to the work, and
who, alone, possessing at every moment a coherent and detailed conception of the entire undertaking,
can alone give it the proper stimulus, and bring to bear the most economical and the most perfect
practical improvements. Such is also the municipal administration in the Prussian towns on
the Rhine. Then, in Bonn, for instance,[4230] the municipal council, elected by the inhabitants
"goes in quest" of some eminent specialist whose ability is well known. It must be noted that
he is taken wherever he can be found, outside the city, in some remote province; they bargain
with him, the same as with some famous musician, for the management of a series of concerts.
Under the title of burgomaster, with a salary of 10,000 francs per annum, he becomes for twelve
years the director of all municipal services, leader of the civic orchestra, solely entrusted
with executive power, wielding the magisterial baton which the various instruments obey, many
of these being salaried functionaries and others benevolent amateurs,[4231] all in harmony
and through him, because they know that he is watchful, competent, and top quality, constantly
occupied with am overall view, responsible, and in his own interest, as a point of honor, wholly
devoted to his work which is likewise their work, that is to say, to the complete success of
the concert.

Nothing in a French town corresponds to this admirable type of a municipal institution. Here,
also, and to a much greater extent in the village, the effect of universal suffrage has been
to discredit the true notables and to incite the abdication or insure the exclusion of men
who, by their education, the large proportion of the taxes they pay, and still greater influence
or production on labor and on business, are social authorities, and who should become legal
authorities. In every country where conditions are unequal, the preponderance of a numerical
majority necessarily ends in the nearly general abstention or almost certain defeat of the
candidates most deserving of election. But here the case is different; the elected, being towns-people
(citadins) and not rural, are not of the species as in the village. They read a daily newspaper,
and believe that they understand not only local matters but all subjects of national and general
importance, that is to say, high level economy, philosophy and law; somewhat resembling the
schoolmaster who, being familiar with the rules of arithmetic, thinks that he can teach the
differential calculus, and the theory of functions. At any rate, they talk loud and argue on
every subject with confidence, according to Jacobin traditions, being, indeed, so many budding
Jacobins. They are the heirs and successors of the old sectarians, issuing from the same stock
and of the same stamp, a few in good faith, but mainly narrow-minded, excited, and bewildered
by the smoke of the glittering generalities they utter. Most of them are mere politicians,
charlatans, and intriguers, third-class lawyers and doctors, literary failures, semi-educated
stump-speakers, bar-room, club, or clique orators, and vulgar climbers. Left behind in private
careers, in which one is closely watched and accepted for what he is worth, they launch out
on a public career because, in this business, popular suffrage at once ignorant, indifferent,
is a badly informed, prejudiced and passionate judge and prefers a moralist of easy conscience,
instead of demanding unsullied integrity and proven competency. Nothing more is demanded from
candidates but witty speech-making, assertiveness and showing off in public, gross flattery,
a display of enthusiasm and promises to place the power about to be conferred on them by the
people in the hands of those who will serve its antipathies and prejudices. Thus introduced
into the municipal council, they constitute its majority and appoint a mayor who is their figurehead
or creature, now the bold leader and again the docile instrument of their spite, their favors,
and their headlong action, of their blunders and presumption, and of their meddlesome disposition
and encroachments.--In the department, the council general, also elected by universal suffrage,
also bears the marks of its origin; its quality, without falling so low, still descends in
a certain degree, and through changes which keep on increasing: politicians install themselves
there and make use of their place as a stepping-stone to mount higher; it also, with larger
powers and prolonged during its vacations by its committee, is tempted to regard itself as
the legitimate sovereign of the extensive and scattered community which it represents.--Thus
recruited and composed, enlarged and deteriorated, the local authorities become difficult to
manage, and from now on, to carry on the administration, the prefect must come to some understanding
with them.

VII. Local society in 1880.

     Present state of local society.--Considered as an organism,
     it is stillborn.--Considered as a mechanism, it gets out of
     order.--Two successive and false conceptions of local
     government.--In theory, one excludes the other.--
     Practically, their union ends in the actual system.--Powers
     of the prefect.--Restrictions on these through subsequent
     changes.--Give and take.--Bargaining.--Supported by the
     government and cost to the State.

Before 1870, when he appointed the mayors and when the council general held its sessions only
fifteen days in the year, the prefect was almost omnipotent; still, at the present day, (1889),
"his powers are immense,"[4232] and his power remains preponderant. He has the right to suspend
the municipal council and the mayor, and to propose their dismissal to the head of the state.
Without resorting to this extremity, he holds them with a strong hand, and always uplifted
over the commune, for he can veto the acts of the municipal police and of the road committee,
annul the regulations of the mayor, and, through a skillful use of his prerogative, impose
his own. He holds in hand, removes, appoints or helps appoint, not alone the clerks in his
office, but likewise every kind and degree of clerk who, outside his office, serves the commune
or department,[4233] from the archivist, keeper of the museum, architect, director, and teachers
of the municipal drawing-schools, from the directors and collectors of charity establishments,
directors and accountants of almshouses, doctors of the mineral springs, doctors and accountants
of the insane asylums and for epidemics, head-overseers of octrois, wolf-bounty guards, commissioners
of the urban police, inspectors of weights and measures, town collectors, whose receipts do
not exceed thirty thousand francs, down to and comprising the lowest employees, such as forest
guards of the department and commune, lock-keepers and navigation guards, overseers of the
quays and of commercial ports, toll-gatherers on bridges and highways, field-guards of the
smallest village, policemen posted on the corner of a street, and stone-breakers on the public
highway. When things and not persons are concerned, it is he, again, who, in every project,
enterprise, or proceeding, is charged with the preliminary examination and final execution
of it, who proposes the department budget and presents it, regularly drawn up, to the council
general, who draws up the communal budget and presents that to the municipal council, and who,
after the council general or municipal council have voted on it, remains on the spot the sole
executor, director, and master of the operation to which they have assented. Their total, effective
part in this operation is very insignificant, it being reduced to a bare act of the will; in
reaching a vote they have had in their hands scarcely any other documents than those furnished
and arranged by him; in gradually reaching their decision step by step, they have had no help
but his, that of an independent collaborator who, governed by his own views and interests,
never becomes the mere instrument. They lack for their decision direct, personal, and full
information, and, beyond this, complete, efficient power; it is simply a dry Yes, interposed
between insufficient resources, or else cut off, and the fruit of which is abortive or only
half ripens. The persistent will of the prefect alone, informed, and who acts, must and does
generally prevail against this ill-supported and ill-furnished will. At bottom, and as he stands,
he is, in his mental and official capacity, always the prefect of the year VIII.

Nevertheless, after the laws lately passed, his hands are not so free. The competency of local
assemblies is extended and comprises not only new cases but, again, of a new species, while
the number of their executive decisions has increased five-fold. The municipal council, instead
of holding one session a year, holds four, and of longer duration. The council general, instead
of one session a year, holds two, and maintains itself in the interim by its delegation which
meets every month. With these increased authorities and generally present, the prefect has
to reckon, and what is still more serious, he must reckon with local opinion; he can no longer
rule with closed doors; the proceedings of the municipal council, the smallest one, are duly
posted; in the towns, they are published and commented on by the newspapers of the locality;
the general council furnishes reports of its deliberations.--Thus, behind elected powers, and
weighing with these on the same side of the scales, here is a new power, opinion, as this grows
in a country leveled by equalized centralization, in heaving or stagnant crowd of disintegrated
individuals lacking any spontaneous, central, rallying point, and who, failing natural leaders,
simply push and jostle each other or stand still, each according to personal, blind, and haphazard
impressions--a hasty, improvident, inconsistent, superficial opinion, caught on the wing, based
on vague rumors, on four or five minutes of attention given each week, and chiefly to big words
imperfectly understood, two or three sonorous, commonplace phrases, of which the listeners
fail to catch the sense, but the sound which, by din of frequent repetition, becomes for them
a recognized signal, the blast of a horn or a shrieking whistle which assembles the herd and
arrests or drives it on. No opposition can make head against this herd as it rushes along in
too compact and too heavy masses.--The prefect, on the contrary, is obliged to cajole it, yield
to it, and satisfy it; for under the system of universal suffrage, this same herd, besides
local representatives, elects the central powers, the deputies, the government; and when the
government sends a prefect from Paris into the provinces, it is after the fashion of a large
commercial establishment, with a view to keep and increase the number of its customers, to
stay there, maintain its credit, and act permanently as its traveling-clerk, or, in other terms,
as its electoral agent, and, still more precisely, as the campaign manager of coming elections
for the dominant party and for the ministers in office who have commissioned and appointed
him, and who, from top to bottom, constantly stimulate him to hold on to the voters already
secured and to gain fresh ones.--Undoubtedly, the interests of the state, department, and commune
must be seriously considered, but, first and above all, he is the recruiting officer for voters.
By virtue of this position and on this he treats with the council general and the standing
committee, with the municipal councilors and mayors, with influential electors, but especially
with the small active committee which, in each commune, supports the prevailing policy and
offers its zeal to the government.

Give and take. These indispensable auxiliaries must obtain nearly all they ask for, and they
ask a great deal. Instinctively, as well as by doctrine and tradition, the Jacobins are exacting,
disposed to regard themselves as the representatives of the real and the ideal people, that
is to say, as sovereigns by right, above the law, entitled to make it and therefore to unmake
it, or, at least, strain it and interpret it as they please. Always in the general council,
in the municipal council, and in the mayoralty, they are tempted to usurp it; the prefect has
as much as he can do to keep them within the local bounds, to keep them from meddling with
state matters and the general policy; he is often obliged to accept their lack of consideration,
to be patient with them, to talk to them mildly; for they talk and want the administration
to reckon with them as a clerk with his master; if they vote money for any service it is on
condition that they take part in the use of the funds and in the details of the service, in
the choice of contractors and in hiring the workmen; on condition that their authority be extended
and their hands applied to the consecutive execution of what does not belong to them but which
belongs to the prefect.[4234] Bargaining, consequently, goes on between them incessantly and
they come to terms.--The prefect, it must be noted, who is bound to pay, can do so without
violating the letter of the law. The stern page on which the legislator has printed his imperative
text is always provided with an ample margin where the administrator, charged with its execution,
can write down the decisions that he is free to make. In relation to each departmental or communal
affair, the prefect can with his own hand write out what suits him on the white margin, which,
as we have already seen, is ample enough; but the margin at his disposition is wider still
and continues, beyond anything we have seen, on other pages; he is chargé d'affaires not only
of the department and commune, but again of the State. Titular conductor or overseer of all
general services, he is, in his circumscription, head inquisitor of the republican faith[4235],
even in relation to private life and inner sentiments, the responsible director of orthodox
or heretical acts or opinions, which are laudable or blamable in the innumerably army of functionaries
by which the central state now undertakes the complete mastery of human life, the twenty distinct
regiments of its vast hierarchy--with the staff of the clergy, of the magistracy, of the preventive
and repressive police, of the customs; with the officials of bridges and highways, forest domains,
stock-breeding establishments, postal and telegraph departments, tobacco and other monopolies;
with those of every national enterprise which ought to be private, Sévres and Gobelins, deaf
and dumb and blind asylums, and every auxiliary and special workshop for war and navigation
purposes, which the state supports and manages. I pass some of them and all too many. Only
remark this, that the indulgence or severity of the prefecture in the way of fiscal violations
or irregularities is an advantage or danger of the highest importance to 377,000 dealers in
wines and liquors; that an accusation brought before and admitted in the prefecture may deprive
38,000 clergymen of their bread,[4236] 43,000 letter-carriers and telegraph messengers, 45,000
sellers of tobacco and collecting-clerks, 75,000 stone-breakers, and 120,000 male and female
teachers;[4237] directly or indirectly, the good or ill favor of the prefecture is of consequence,
since recent military laws, to all adults between 20 and 45 years, and, since recent school
laws, to all children between 6 and 13 years of age. According to these figures, which go on
increasing from year to, calculate the breadth of the margin on which, alongside of the legal
text which states the law for persons and things in general, the prefect in his turn gives
the law for persons and things in particular. On this margin, which belongs to him, he writes
what he pleases, at one time permissions and favors, exemptions, dispensations, leaves of absence,
relief of taxes or discharges, help and subventions, preferences and gratuities, appointments
and promotions, and at another time disgrace, hardship, legal proceedings, dismissals, and
special favors. To guide his hand in each case, that is to say, to spread all the favors on
one side and all the disfavors on the other, he has, among the local Jacobins, special informers
and important applicants. If not restrained by a very strong sentiment of distributive justice
and very great solicitude for the public good he can hardly resist them, and in general when
he takes up his pen it is to write under the dictation of his Jacobin collaborators.

DEMOCRACY IN FRANCE IN 1889, SUMMARY.

Thus has the institution of the year VIII deviated (The France of the revolution corrected
and decreed by Napoleon), no longer attaining its object. The prefects, formerly appointed
to a department, like a pacier of the Middle Ages, imposed on it from above, ignorant of local
passions, independent, qualified and fitted for the office, was, during fifty years, in general,
able to remain the impartial minister of the law and of equity, maintaining the rights of each,
and exacting from each his due, without heeding opinions and without respect to persons. Now
he is obliged to become an accomplice of the ruling faction, govern for the advantage of some
to the detriment of others, and to put into his scales, as a preponderating weight, every time
he weighs judgment, a consideration for persons and opinions. At the same time, the entire
administrative staff in his hands, and under his eye, deteriorates; each year, on the recommendation
of a senator or deputy, he adds to it, or sees, intruders there, whose previous services are
null, feeble in capacity and of weak integrity who do poor work or none at all, and who, to
hold their post or get promoted, count not on their merits but on their sponsors. The rest,
able and faithful functionaries of the old school, who are poor and to whom no path is open,
become weary and lose their energy; they are no longer even certain of keeping their place;
if they stay, it is for the dispatch of current business and because they cannot be dispensed
with; perhaps to-morrow, however, they will cease to be considered indispensable; some political
denunciation, or to give a political favorite a place, will put them by anticipation on the
retired list. From now on they have two powers to consult, one, legitimate and natural, the
authority of their administrative chiefs, and the other illegitimate and parasite, consisting
of democratic influence from both above and below. For them, as for the prefect, public welfare
descends to the second rank and the electoral interest mounts upward to the first rank. With
them as with him self-respect, professional honor, the conscientious performance of duty, reciprocal
loyalty go down; discipline relaxes, punctuality falters, and, as the saying goes, the great
administrative edifice is no longer a well-kept house, but a barracks.

Naturally, under the democratic regime, the maintenance and service of this house becomes more
and more costly;[4238] for, owing to the additional centimes, it is the rich and well-to-do
minority which defrays the larger portion of the expense. Owing to universal suffrage, the
poor or half-poor majority which dominate the elections so that the large majority with impunity
can overtax the minority. At Paris, the parliament and the government, elected by this numerical
majority, contrive demands in its behalf, force expenditure, augment public works, schools,
endowments, gratuities, prizes, a multiplication of offices to increase the number of their
clients, while it never tires in decreeing, in the name of principles, works for show, theatrical,
ruinous, and dangerous, the cost of which they do not care to know, and of which the social
import escapes them. Democracy, above as well as below, is short-sighted; it seizes whatever
food it comes across, like an animal, with open jaws and head down; it refuses to anticipate
and to calculate; it burdens the future and wastes every fortune it undertakes to manage, not
alone that of the central state, but, again, those of all local societies. Up to the advent
of universal suffrage, the administrators appointed above or elected below, in the department
or in the commune, kept tight hold of the purse-strings; since 1848, especially since 1870,
and still later, since the passage of the laws of 1882, which, in suppressing the obligatory
consent of the heaviest taxed, let slip the last of these strings, this purse, wide open, is
emptied in the street.--In 1851,[4239] the departments, all together, expended 97 millions;
in 1869, 192 millions; in 1881, 314 millions. In 1836, the communes, all together, save Paris,
expended 117 millions, in 1862, 450 millions, in 1877, 676 millions. If we examine the receipts
covering this expenditure, we find that the additional centimes which supplied the local budgets,
in 1820, with 80 millions, and, in 1850, with 131 millions, supplied them, in 1870, with 249
millions, in 1880, with 318 millions, and, in 1887, with 364 millions. The annual increase,
therefore, of these superadded centimes to the principal of the direct taxes is enormous, and
finally ends in an overflow. In 1874,[4240] there were already 24 departments in which the
sum of additional centimes reached or surpassed the sum of the principal. "In a very few years,"
says an eminent economist,[4241] "it is probable that, for nearly all of the departments,"
the overcharge will be similar. Already, for a long time, in the total of personal taxation,[4242]
the local budgets raised more than the state, and, in 1888, the principal of the tax real property,
183 millions, is less than the total of centimes joined with it, 196 millions. Coming generations
are burdened over and beyond the present generation, while the sum of loans constantly increases,
like that of taxation. The indebted communes, except Paris, owed, altogether, in 1868, 524
millions francs[4243], in 1871, 711 millions, and in 1878, 1322 millions francs.[4244] Paris,
in 1868, already owed 1326 millions, March 30, 1878, it owed 1988 millions. In this same Paris,
the annual contribution of each inhabitant for local expenses was, at the end of the first
Empire, in 1813, 37 francs per head, at the end of the Restoration,[4245] francs, after the
July monarchy, in 1848, 43 francs, and, at the end of the second Empire, in 1869, 94 francs.
In 1887,45 it is 110 francs per head. [4246]

VIII. Final result in a tendency to bankruptcy.

Such, in brief, is the history of local society from 1789 down to 1889. After the philosophic
demolition of the Revolution and the practical constructions of the Consulate, it could no
longer be a small patrimony, something to take pride in, an object of affection and devotion
to its inhabitants. The departments and communes have become more or less vast lodging-houses,
all built on the same plan and managed according to the same regulations one as passable as
the other, with apartments in them which, more or less good, are more or less dear, but at
rates which, higher or lower, are fixed at a uniform tariff over the entire territory, so that
the 36,000 communal buildings and the 86 department hotels are about equal, it making but little
difference whether one lodges in the latter rather than in the former. The permanent taxpayers
of both sexes who have made these premises their home, have not obtained recognition for what
they are, invincibly and by nature, a syndicate of neighbors, an involuntary, obligatory and
private association, in which physical solidarity engenders moral solidarity, a natural, limited
society whose members own the building in common, and each possesses a property right more
or less great, according to the greater or lesser contribution he makes to the expenses of
the establishment. Up to this time no room has yet been found, either in the law or in minds,
for this very plain truth; its place is taken and occupied in advance by the two errors which,
in turn or both at once, have led the legislator and opinion astray.

Taking things as a whole, it is admitted up to 1830 that the legitimate proprietor of the local
building is the central state, that it may install its delegate therein, the prefect, with
full powers; that, for better government, he consents to be instructed by the leading interested
and most capable parties on the spot; that he should fix the petty rights he concedes to them
within the narrowest limits; that he should appoint them; that, if he calls them together for
consultation, it is from time to time and generally for form's sake, to add the authority of
their assent to the authority of his omnipotence, on the implied condition that he shall not
give heed to their objections if he does not like them, and not follow their advice if he does
not choose to accept it.--Taking things as a whole, it is admitted that, since 1848, the legitimate
proprietors of the building are its adult male inhabitants, counted by heads, all equal and
all with an equal part in the common property, comprising those who contribute nothing or nearly
nothing to the common expenditure of the house, the numerous body of semi-poor who lodge in
it at half price, and the not less numerous body to whom administrative charity furnishes house
comforts, shelter, light, and frequently provisions, gratuitously.--Between both these contradictory
and false conceptions, between the prefect of the year VIII, and the democracy of 1792, a compromise
has been effected; undoubtedly, the prefect, sent from Paris, is and remains the titular director,
the active and responsible manager of the departmental or communal building; but, in his management
of it he is bound to keep in view the coming elections, and in such a way as will maintain
the parliamentary majority in the seats they occupy in parliament; consequently, he must conciliate
the local leaders of universal suffrage, rule with their help, put up with the intrusion of
their bias and cupidity, take their advice daily, follow it often, even in small matters, even
in payments day by day of sums already voted, in appointing an office-clerk, in the appointment
of an unpaid underling, who may some day or other take this clerk's place.[4247]--Hence the
spectacle before our eyes: a badly kept establishment in which profusion and waste render each
other worse and worse, where sinecures multiply and where corruption enters in; a staff of
officials becoming more and more numerous and less and less serviceable, harassed between two
different authorities, obliged to possess or to simulate political zeal and to neutralize an
impartial law by partiality, and, besides performing their regular duties, to do dirty work;
in this staff, there are two sorts of employees, the new-comers who are greedy and who, through
favor, get the best places, and the old ones who are patient and pretend no more, but who suffer
and grow disheartened; in the building itself, there is great demolition and reconstruction,
architectural fronts in monumental style for parade and to excite attention, entirely new decorative
and extremely tiresome structures at extravagant cost; consequently, loans and debts, heavier
bills at the end of each year for each occupant, low rents, but still high, for favorites in
the small rooms and garrets, and extravagant rents for the larger and more sumptuous apartments;
in sum, forced receipts which do not offset the expenses; liabilities which exceed assets;
a budget which shows only a stable balance on paper,--in short, an establishment with which
the public is not content, and which is on the road to bankruptcy.

*****

[Footnote 4201: Laws of March 21, 1831, and July 18, 1837, June 22, 1833, and May 10, 1838.
The municipal electors number about 2,250,000 and form the superior third of the adult masculine
population; in the choice of its notables and semi-notables, the law takes into account not
only wealth and direct taxation but likewise education and services rendered to the public.--The
department electors number about 200,000, about as many as the political electors. The reporter
observes that "an almost complete analogy exists between the choice of a deputy and the choice
of a department councilor, and that it is natural to confide the election to the same electoral
body otherwise divided, since the object is to afford representation to another order of interests."]

[Footnote 4202: Laws of July 3, 1848.]

[Footnote 4203: Laws of Aug. 12, 1876, March 28, 1882, and April 5, 1884; law of Aug. 10, 1871.]

[Footnote 4204: The prefect, who is directed and posted by the minister of the Interior in Paris.]

[Footnote 4205: "The Revolution," vol. I., book VIII. (Laff. I. pp. 467-559.)]

[Footnote 4206: And in 1880 it certainly excluded the female side of human nature. (SR.)]

[Footnote 4207: It must have been evident that nature gives to each worker, hunter, farmer
or fisherman in accordance with their competence and industry. 50 and the maximum of 4 fr.
50 per annum, according to the communes."--Ibid., 304: "In 1806 the personal tax produced in
France about sixteen millions of francs, a little less than 0 fr. 50 per head of the inhabitants."]

[Footnote 4210: Ibid., I., 367 (on the tax on doors and windows). According to the population
of the commune, this is from 0 fr. 30 to 1 fr. for each opening, from 0 fr. 45 to 1 fr. 50
for two openings, from 0 fr. 90 to 4 fr. 50 for three openings, from 1 fr. 60 to 6 fr. 40 for
four openings, and from 2 fr. 50 to 8 fr. 50 for five openings. The first of these rates is
applied to all communes of less than 5000 souls. We see that the poor man, especially the poor
peasant, is considered; the tax on him is progressive in an inverse sense.]

[Footnote 4211: De Foville, "La France Economique" (1887), p.59: "Our 14,500 charity bureaux
gave assistance in 1883 to 1,405,500 persons;.... as, in reality, the population of the communes
aided (by them) is only 22,000,000, the proportion of the registered poor amounts to over six
per cent."]

[Footnote 4212: Paul Leroy-Beaulieu, "Essai sur la répartition des richesses," p.174, et seq.--In
1851, the number of land-owners in France was estimated at 7,800,000. (In 1889.)]

[Footnote 4215: Cf ante, on the characteristics of indirect taxation.]

[Footnote 4216: Here it is the estimated rent, which stands to the real rent as four to five;
an estimated rent of 400 francs indicates a real rent of 500 francs.]

[Footnote 4217: De Foville, p.57.]

[Footnote 4218: Paul Leroy-Beaulieu," Essai sur la répartition de richesses," p. 174.]

[Footnote 4219: Ibid., p.209: In 1878, in Paris, 74,000 houses with 1,022,539 rentals, 337,587
being for trade and commerce, and 684,952 for dwelling purposes. Among the latter, 468,641
have a locative value inferior to 300 francs a year; 74,360 are between 500 and 750 francs;
21,147 are between 750 and 1000 francs. All these lodgings are more or less exempt from the
personal tax: those between 1000 and 400 francs pay it with a more or less great reduction:
those under 400 francs pay nothing. Above 1000 francs, we find 17,202 apartments from between
1000 and 1250 francs; 6198 from between 1250 and 1500 francs; 21,453 from 1500 to 3000 francs.
These apartments are occupied by more or less well-to-do people.--14,858 apartments above 3000
francs are occupied by the richer or the wealthy class. Among the latter 9985 are from 3000
to 6000; 3040 are from 6000 to 10,000; 1443 are from 10,000 to 20,000; 421 are above 20,000
francs. These two latter categories are occupied by the really opulent class.--According to
the latest statistics, instead of 684,952 dwelling rentals there are 806,187, of which 727,419
are wholly or partly free of the personal tax. ("Situation au 1ère Janvier, 1888," report by
M. Lamouroux, conseiller-municipal.)]

[Footnote 4220: The following appropriations for 1889 are printed on my tax-bill: "To the State,
51%.; to the Department, 21%; to the commune, 25%." On business permits: "To the State, 64%.;
to the Department, 12%; to the commune, 20%. 30 per annum; for those with four openings, 1
fr. 60." Now, "a house with five openings pays nearly nine times as much as a house with one
opening." The small taxpayers are accordingly largely relieved at the expense of those who
pay heavy and average taxes, the magnitude of this relief being appreciable by the following
figures: In 1885, out of 8,975,166 houses, 248,352 had one opening, 1,827,104 two openings,
1,624,516 three openings, and 1,165,902 four openings. More than one-half of the houses, all
of those belonging to the poor or straitened, are thus relieved, while the other half, since
the tax is an impost, not a quota, but an apportionment, is overcharged as much.]

[Footnote 4222: One result of this principle is, that the poor who are exempt from taxation
or who are on the poor list have no vote, which is the case in England and in Prussia.--Through
another result of the same principle, the law of May 15, 1818, in France, summoned the heaviest
taxpayers, in equal number with the members of the municipal council, to deliberate with it
every time that "a really urgent expenditure" obliged the commune to raise extra additional
centimes beyond the usual 0 fr. 05. "Thus," says Henrion de Pancey ("Du pouvoir municipal,"
p.109), "the members of the municipal councils belong to the class of small land-owners, at
least in a large number of communes, voted the charges without examination which only affected
them insensibly."--This last refuge of distributive justice was abolished by the law of April
5, 1882.]

[Footnote 4223: Max Leclerc, "Le Vie municipale en Prusse." (Extrait des "Annales de l'Ecole
libre des sciences politique," 1889, a study on the town of Bonn.) At Bonn, which has a population
of 35,810 inhabitants, the first group is composed of 167 electors: the second, of 471; the
third, of 2607, each group elects 8 municipal councilors out of 24.]

[Footnote 4224: De Foville, "La France économique," p. 16 (census of 1881).--Number of communes,
36,097; number below 1000 inhabitants, 27,503; number below 500 inhabitants, 16,870.--What
is stated applies partly to the two following categories: 1st, communes from 1000 to 1500 inhabitants,
2982; 2nd, communes from 1500 to 2000 inhabitants, 1917.--All the communes below 2000 inhabitants
are counted as rural in the statistics of population, and they number 33,402.]

[Footnote 4225: See Paul Leroy-Beaulieu, "L'État moderne et ses fonctions," p. 169. "The various
groups of inhabitants, especially in the country, do not know how to undertake or agree upon
anything of themselves. I have seen villages of two or three hundred people belonging to a
large scattered commune wait patiently for years and humbly petition for aid in constructing
an indispensable fountain, which required only a contribution of 200 or 300 francs, 5 francs
per head, to put up. I have seen others possessing only one road on which to send off their
produce and unable to act in concert, when, with an outlay of 2000 francs, and 200 or 300 francs
a year to keep it in order, it would easily suffice for all their requirements. I speak of
regions relatively rich, much better off than the majority of communes in France."]

[Footnote 4226: In French villages, on one of the walls of a public building on the square
are notices of all kinds, of interest to the inhabitants, and among these, in a frame behind
a wire netting, the latest copy of the government official newspaper, giving authentic political
items, those which it thinks best for the people to read. (Tr.)]

[Footnote 4227: On the communal system in France, and on the reforms which, following the example
of other nations, might be introduced into it, cf. Joseph Ferrand (formerly a prefect), "Les
Institutions administratives en France et à l'étranger"; Rudolph Gneist, "Les Réformes administratives
en Prusse accomplies par la legislation de 1872," (especially the institution of Amtsvorsteher,
for the union of communes or circumscriptions of about 1500 souls); the Duc de Broglie, "Vues
sur le gouvernement de la France" (especially on the reforms that should be made in the administration
of the commune and canton), p. 21.--"Deprive communal magistrates of their quality as government
agents; separate the two orders of functions; have the public functionary whose duty it is
to see that the laws are executed in the communes, the execution of general laws and the decisions
of the superior authority carried out, placed at the county town."]

[Footnote 4228: De Foville, ibid., p. 16.--The remarks here made apply to towns of the foregoing
category (from 5000 to 10,000 souls), numbering 312. A last category comprises towns from 2000
to 5000 souls, numbering 2160, and forming the last class of urban populations; these, through
their mixed character, assimilate to the 1817 communes containing from 1500 to 2000 inhabitants,
forming the first category of the rural populations.]

