'Yes; he employs himself now, and teaches Amy to do the same. You know, after the governess
went, we were afraid little Amy would never do anything but wait on Charles, and idle in her
pretty gentle way; but when he turned to better things so did she, and her mind has been growing
all this time. Perhaps you don't see it, for she has not lost her likeness to a kitten, and
looks all demure silence with the elders, but she takes in what the wise say.'

'She is a very good little thing; and I dare say will not be the worse for growing up slowly.'

'Those two sisters are specimens of fast and slow growth. Laura has always seemed to be so
much more than one year older than Amy, especially of late. She is more like five-and-twenty
than twenty. I wonder if she overworks herself. But how we have lingered over our dinner!'

By half-past three, Mary was entering a copse which led into Mr. Edmonstone's field, when she
heard gay tones, and a snatch of one of the sweetest of old songs,--

           Weep no more, lady; lady, weep no more,
           Thy sorrow is in vain;
           For violets pluck'd, the sweetest showers
           Will ne'er make grow again.

A merry, clear laugh followed, and a turn in the path showed her Guy, Amy, and Charlotte, busy
over a sturdy stock of eglantine. Guy, little changed in these two years,--not much taller,
and more agile than robust,--was lopping vigorously with his great pruning-knife, Amabel nursing
a bundle of drooping rose branches, Charlotte, her bonnet in a garland of wild sweet-brier,
holding the matting and continually getting entangled in the long thorny wreaths.

'And here comes the "friar of orders gray," to tell you so,' exclaimed Guy, as Mary, in her
gray dress, came on them.

'Oh, that is right, dear good friar,' cried Amy.

'We are so busy,' said Charlotte; 'Guy has made Mr. Markham send all these choice buds from
Redclyffe.'

'Not from the park,' said Guy, 'we don't deal much in gardening; but Markham is a great florist,
and these are his bounties.'

'And are you cutting that beautiful wild rose to pieces?'

'Is it not a pity?' said Amy. 'We have used up all the stocks in the garden, and this is to
be transplanted in the autumn.'

'She has been consoling it all the time by telling it it is for its good,' said Guy; 'cutting
off wild shoots, and putting in better things.'

'I never said anything so pretty; and, after all, I don't know that the grand roses will be
equal to these purple shoots and blushing buds with long whiskers.'

'So Sir Guy was singing about the violets plucked to comfort you. But you must not leave off,
I want to see how you do it. I am gardener enough to like to look on.'

'We have only two more to put in.'

Knife and fingers were busy, and Mary admired the dexterity with which the slit was made in
the green bark, well armed with firm red thorns, and the tiny scarlet gem inserted, and bound
with cotton and matting. At the least critical parts of the work, she asked after the rest
of the party, and was answered that papa had driven Charles out in the pony carriage, and that
Laura and Eveleen were sitting on the lawn, reading and working with mamma. Eveleen was better,
but not strong, or equal to much exertion in the heat. Mary went on to speak of her school
feast and ask her questions.

'O Guy, you must not go before that!' cried Charlotte.

'Are you going away?'

'He is very naughty, indeed,' said Charlotte. 'He is going, I don't know where all, to be stupid,
and read mathematics.'

'A true bill, I am sorry to say,' said Guy; 'I am to join a reading-party for the latter part
of the vacation.'

'I hope not before Thursday week, though we are not asking you to anything worth staying for.'

'Oh, surely you need not go before that!' said Amy, 'need you?'

'No; I believe I may stay till Friday, and I should delight in the feast, thank you, Miss Ross,--I
want to study such things. A bit more matting, Amy, if you please. There, I think that will do.'

'Excellently. Here is its name. See how neatly Charlie has printed it, Mary. Is it not odd,
that he prints so well when he writes so badly?'

'"The Seven Sisters." There, fair sisterhood, grow and thrive, till I come to transplant you
in the autumn. Are there any more?'

'No, that is the last. Now, Mary, let us come to mamma.'

Guy waited to clear the path of the numerous trailing briery branches, and the others walked
on, Amy telling how sorry they were to lose Guy's vacation, but that he thought he could not
give time enough to his studies here, and had settled, at Oxford, to make one of a reading-party,
under the tutorship of his friend, Mr. Wellwood.

'Where do they go?'

'It is not settled. Guy wished it to be the sea-side; but Philip has been recommending a farmhouse
in Stylehurst parish, rather nearer St. Mildred's Wells than Stylehurst, but quite out in the
moor, and an immense way from both.'

'Do you think it will be the place?'

'Yes; Guy thinks it would suit Mr. Wellwood, because he has friends at St. Mildred's, so he
gave his vote for it. He expects to hear how it is settled to-day or to-morrow.'

Coming out on the lawn, they found the three ladies sitting under the acacia, with their books
and work. Laura did, indeed, look older than her real age, as much above twenty as Amy looked
under nineteen. She was prettier than ever; her complexion exquisite in delicacy, her fine
figure and the perfect outline of her features more developed; but the change from girl to
woman had passed over her, and set its stamp on the anxious blue eye, and almost oppressed
brow. Mary thought it would be hard to define where was that difference. It was not want of
bloom, for of that Laura had more than any of the others, fresh, healthy, and bright, while
Amy was always rather pale, and Lady Eveleen was positively wan and faded by London and late
hours; nor was it loss of animation, for Laura talked and laughed with interest and eagerness;
nor was it thought, for little Amy, when at rest, wore a meditative, pensive countenance; but
there was something either added or taken away, which made it appear that the serenity and
carelessness of early youth had fled from her, and the air of the cares of life had come over her.

Mary told her plans,--Church service at four, followed by a tea-drinking in the fields; tea
in the garden for the company, and play for the school children and all who liked to join them.
Every one likes such festivals, which have the recommendation of permitting all to do as they
please, bringing friends together in perfect ease and freedom, with an object that raises them
above the rank of mere gatherings for the pleasure of rich neighbours.

Mrs. Edmonstone gladly made the engagement and Lady Eveleen promised to be quite well, and
to teach the children all manner of new games, though she greatly despised the dullness of
English children, and had many droll stories of the stupidity of Laura's pupils, communicated
to her, with perhaps a little exaggeration, by Charles, and still further embellished by herself,
for the purpose of exciting Charlotte's indignation.

Mary proceeded to her consultation about the singing, and was conducted by Guy and Amy to the
piano, and when her ears could not be indoctrinated by their best efforts, they more than half
engaged to walk to East-hill, and have a conversation with the new school-master, whom Mary
pitied for having fallen on people so unable to appreciate his musical training as herself
and her father. The whole party walked back with her as far as the shade lasted; and at the
end of the next field she turned, saw them standing round the stile, thought what happy people
they were, and then resumed her wonder whither Laura's youthfulness had flown.

The situation of Philip and Laura had not changed. His regiment had never been at any great
distance from Hollywell, and he often came, venturing more as Laura learnt to see him with
less trepidation. He seldom or never was alone with her; but his influence was as strong as
ever, and look, word, and gesture, which she alone could understand, told her what she was
to him, and revealed his thoughts. To him she was devoted, all her doings were with a view
to please him, and deserve his affection; he was her world, and sole object. Indeed, she was
sometimes startled by perceiving that tenderly as she loved her own family, all were subordinate
to him. She had long since known the true name of her feelings for him; she could not tell
when or how the certainty had come, but she was conscious that it was love that they had acknowledged
for one another and that she only lived in the light of his love. Still she did not realize
the evil of concealment; it was so deep a sensation of her innermost heart, that she never
could imagine revealing it to any living creature, and she had besides so surrendered her judgment
to her idol, that no thought could ever cross her that he had enjoined what was wrong. Her
heart and soul were his alone, and she left the future to him without an independent desire
or reflection. All the embarrassments and discomforts which her secret occasioned her were
met willingly for his sake, and these were not a few, though time had given her more self-command,
or, perhaps, more properly speaking, had hardened her.

She always had a dread of tete-a-tetes and conversations over novels, and these were apt to
be unavoidable when Eveleen was at Hollywell. The twilight wanderings on the terrace were a
daily habit, and Eveleen almost always paired with her. On this evening in particular, Laura
was made very uncomfortable by Eveleen's declaring that it was positively impossible and unnatural
that the good heroine of some novel should have concealed her engagement from her parents.
Laura could not help saying that there might be many excuses; then afraid that she was exciting
suspicion, changed the subject in great haste, and tried to make Eveleen come indoors, telling
her she would tire herself to death, and vexed by her cousin's protestations that the fresh
cool air did her good. Besides, Eveleen was looking with attentive eyes at another pair who
were slowly walking up and down the shady walk that bordered the grass-plot, and now and then
standing still to enjoy the subdued silence of the summer evening, and the few distant sounds
that marked the perfect lull.

'How calm--how beautiful!' murmured Amabel.

'It only wants the low solemn surge and ripple of the tide, and its dash on the rocks,' said
Guy. 'If ever there was music, it is there; but it makes one think what the ear must be that
can take in the whole of those harmonics.'

'How I should like to hear it!'

'And see it. O Amy! to show you the sunny sea,--the sense of breadth and vastness in that pale
clear horizon line, and the infinite number of fields of light between you and it,--and the
free feelings as you stand on some high crag, the wind blowing in your face across half the
globe, and the waves dashing far below! I am growing quite thirsty for the sea.'

'You know, papa said something about your taking your reading-party to Redclyffe.'

'True, but I don't think Markham would like it, and it would put old Mrs. Drew into no end
of a fuss.'

'Not like to have you?'

'O yes, I should be all very well; but if they heard I was bringing three or four men with
me, they would think them regular wild beasts. They would be in an awful fright. Besides, it
is so long since I have been at home, that I don't altogether fancy going there till I settle
there for good.'

'Ah! it will be sad going there at first.'

'And it has not been my duty yet.'

'But you will be glad when you get there?'

'Sha'n't I? I wonder if any one has been to shoot the rabbits on the shag rock. They must have
quite overrun it by this time. But I don't like the notion of the first day. There is not only
the great change, but a stranger at the vicarage.'

'Do you know anything about the new clergyman? I believe Mrs. Ashford is a connection of Lady
Thorndale's?'

'Yes; Thorndale calls them pattern people, and I have no doubt they will do great good in the
parish. I am sure we want some enlightenment, for we are a most primitive race, and something
beyond Jenny Robinson's dame school would do us no harm.'

Here Mr. Edmonstone called from the window that they must come in.

Mrs. Edmonstone thought deeply that night. She had not forgotten her notion that Eveleen was
attracted by Guy's manners, and had been curious to see what would happen when Eveleen was
sent to Hollywell for country air.

She had a very good opinion of Lady Eveleen. Since the former visit, she had shown more spirit
of improvement, and laid aside many little follies; she had put herself under Laura's guidance,
and tamed down into what gave the promise of a sensible woman, more than anything that had
hitherto been observed in her; and little addicted to match-making as Mrs. Edmonstone was,
she could not help thinking that Eva was almost worthy of her dear Guy (she never could expect
to find anyone she should think quite worthy of him, he was too like one of her own children
for that), and on the other hand, how delighted Lord and Lady Kilcoran would be. It was a very
pretty castle in the air; but in the midst of it, the notion suddenly darted into Mrs. Edmonstone's
head, that while she was thinking of it, it was Amy, not Eveleen, who was constantly with Guy.
Reading and music, roses, botany, and walks on the terrace! She looked back, and it was still
the same. Last Easter vacation, how they used to study the stars in the evening, to linger
in the greenhouse in the morning nursing the geraniums, and to practise singing over the school-room
piano; how, in a long walk, they always paired together; and how they seemed to share every
pursuit or pleasure.

Now Mrs. Edmonstone was extremely fond of Guy, and trusted him entirely; but she thought she
ought to consider how far this should be allowed. Feeling that he ought to see more of the
world, she had sent him as much as she could into society, but it had only made him cling closer
to home. Still he was but twenty, it was only a country neighbourhood, and there was much more
for him to see before he could fairly be supposed to know his own mind. She knew he would act
honourably; but she had a horror of letting him entangle himself with her daughter before he
was fairly able to judge of his own feelings. Or, if this was only behaving with a brother's
freedom and confidence, Mrs. Edmonstone felt it was not safe for her poor little Amy, who might
learn so to depend on him as to miss him grievously when this intimacy ceased, as it must when
he settled at his own home. It would be right, while it was still time, to make her remember
that they were not brother and sister, and by checking their present happy, careless, confidential
intercourse, to save her from the chill which seemed to have been cast on Laura. Mrs. Edmonstone
was the more anxious, because she deeply regretted not having been sufficiently watchful in
Laura's case, and perhaps she felt an unacknowledged conviction that if there was real love
on Guy's part, it would not be hurt by a little reserve on Amy's. Yet to have to speak to her
little innocent daughter on such a matter disturbed her so much, that she could hardly have
set about it, if Amy had not, at that very moment, knocked at her door.

'My dear, what has kept you up so late?'

'We have been sitting in Eveleen's room, mamma, hearing about her London life; and then we
began to settle our plans for to-morrow, and I came to ask what you think of them. You know
Guy has promised to go and hear the East-hill singing, and we were proposing, if you did not
mind it, to take the pony-carriage and the donkey, and go in the morning to East-hill, have
luncheon, and get Mary to go with us to the top of the great down, where we have never been.
Guy has been wanting us, for a long time past, to go and see the view, and saying there is
a track quite smooth enough to drive Charlie to the top.'

Amy wondered at her mother's look of hesitation. In fact, the scheme was so accordant with
their usual habits that it was impossible to find any objection; yet it all hinged on Guy,
and the appointment at East-hill might lead to a great many more.

'Do you wish us to do anything else, mamma? We don't care about it.'

'No, my dear,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, 'I see no reason against it. But--' and she felt as if
she was making a desperate plunge, 'there is something I want to say to you.'

Amy stood ready to hear, but Mrs. Edmonstone paused. Another effort, and she spoke:--

'Amy, my dear, I don't wish to find fault, but I thought of advising you to take care. About Guy--'

The very brilliant pink which instantly overspread Amy's face made her mother think her warning
more expedient.

'You have been spending a great deal of time with him of late, very sensibly and pleasantly,
I know; I don't blame you at all, my dear, so you need not look distressed. I only want you
to be careful. You know, though we call him cousin, he is scarcely a relation at all.'

'O mamma, don't go on,' said poor little Amy, hurriedly; 'indeed I am very sorry!'

For Amy understood that it was imputed to her that she had been forward and unmaidenly. Mrs.
Edmonstone saw her extreme distress, and, grieved at the pain she had inflicted, tried to reassure
her as much as might be safe.

'Indeed, my dear, you have done nothing amiss. I only intended to tell you to be cautious for
fear you should get into a way of going on which might not look well. Don't make any great
difference, I only meant that there should not be quite so much singing and gardening alone
with him, or walking in the garden in the evening. You can manage to draw back a little, so
as to keep more with me or with Laura, and I think that will be the best way.'

Every word, no matter what, increased the burning of poor Amy's cheeks. A broad accusation
of flirting would have been less distressing to many girls than this mild and delicate warning
was to one of such shrinking modesty and maidenly feeling. She had a sort of consciousness
that she enjoyed partaking in his pursuits, and this made her sense of confusion and shame
overwhelming. What had she been thoughtlessly doing? She could not speak, she could not look.
Her mother put her arm round her, and Amy hid her head on her shoulder, and held her fast.
Mrs. Edmonstone kissed and caressed the little fluttering bird, then saying, 'Good night, my
own dear child,' unloosed her embrace.

'Good night, dear mamma,' whispered Amy. 'I am very sorry.'

'You need not be sorry, my dear, only be careful. Good night.' And it would be hard to say
whether the mother or the daughter had the hottest cheeks.

