In anticipation of a Peace Conference German agents at the Hague have been making discreet
inquiries after lodgings for German delegates. The latter have expressed a strong preference
for getting in on the ground floor.

       ***

The weighing of a recruit could not be completed at Mill Hill, as the scales did not go beyond
seventeen stone, and indignation has been expressed in some quarters at the failure of the
official mind to adopt the simple expedient of weighing as much as they could of him and then
weighing the rest at a second or, if necessary, a third attempt.

       ***

It is rumoured that tradesmen's weekly books are to be abolished. We have long felt that the
absurd practice of paying the fellows is a relic of the dark ages.

       ***

The statement of a writer in a morning paper that Wednesday night's fog "tasted like Stilton
cheese" has attracted the attention of the Food Controller, who is having an analysis made
with the view of determining its suitability for civilian rations. We assume that it would
rank as cheese and not count in the calculation of courses.

       ***

Austria has forbidden the importation of champagne, caviare and oysters, and now that the horrors
of war have thus been thoroughly brought home to the populace it is expected that public opinion
in the Dual Monarchy will shortly force the EMPEROR to make overtures to the Allies for a separate
peace.

       ***

As a protest against being fined, a Tottenham man has stopped his War Loan subscriptions. Nevertheless,
after a series of prolonged discussions with Sir WILLIAM ROBERTSON, Mr. BONAR LAW has decided
that the War can go on, subject to the early introduction of certain economies.

       ***

The Duke of BUCCLEUCH has given permission to his tenants to trap rabbits on the ducal estates.
It is hoped that a taste of real sport will cause many of the local residents, though above
military age, to volunteer for similar work on the West Front.

       ***

The prisons in Berlin are said to be full of women who have offended against the Food Laws,
and in consequence of this many deserving criminals are homeless.

       ***

A party of American literary and scientific gentlemen have obtained permission to visit Egypt
on a mission of research. In view of the American craze for souvenir-hunting it is anticipated
that a special guard will be mounted over the Pyramids.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'I am being overwhelmed with letters offering services from
    all and sundry,' Mr. Chamberlain said yesterday.

    'As I haven't even appointed a private secretary at present,'
    he added, 'it is obviously impossible for me even to open
    them.'"--Daily Sketch.

We suppose the Censor must have told him what they were about.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSCAT.

  An ancient castle crowns the hill
    That flanks our sunlit rockbound bay,
  Where, in the spacious days of old,
  Stout ALBUQUERQUE set his hold
  Dealing in slaves and silks and gold
    From Hormuz to Cathay.

  The Dom has passed, the Arab rules;
    Yet still there  fronts  the morning light
  Erect upon the crumbling wall
  The mast of some great Amiral,
  A trophy of the Portingall
    In some forgotten fight.

  The wind blows damp, the sun shines hot,
    And ever on the Eastern shore,
  Faint envoys from the far monsoon,
  There in the gap the breakers croon
  Their old unchanging rhythmic rune
    (The noise is such a bore).

  And week by week to climb that hill
    The SULTAN sends some  sweating knave
  To scan the misty deep and hail
  With hoisted nag the smoky trail
  That means (hurrah!) the English mail,
    So we still rule the wave!

  Hurrah!--and yet what tales of woe!
    My home exposed to Zeppelin shocks,
  The long-drawn agony of strife,
  The daily toll of precious life,
  And a sad screed from my poor wife
    Of babes with chicken-pox.

  All this it brings--yet brings therewith
    That which may help us bear and grin.
  "Boy, when you hear the boat's keel scrunch,
  Ask the mail officer to lunch;
  But give me time to peep at Punch
    Before you let him in."

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON'S LITTLE SUNBEAMS.

THE TAXI-MEN.

What (writes a returned traveller) has happened to London's taxi-drivers? When I went away,
not more than three months ago, they occasionally stopped when they were hailed and were not
invariably unwilling to convey one hither and there. But now ... With flags defiantly up, they
move disdainfully along, and no one can lure them aside. Where on these occasions are they
going? How do they make a living if the flag never comes down? Are they always on their way
to lunch, even late at night? Are they always out of petrol? I can understand and admire the
independence that follows upon overwork; but when was their overwork done? The only tenable
theory that I have evolved is that Lord NORTHCLIFFE (whose concurrent rise to absolutism is
another phenomenon of my absence) has engaged them all to patrol the streets in his service.

Sometimes, however, a taxi-driver, breaking free from this bondage, answers a hail; but even
then all is not necessarily easy. This is the kind of thing:--

You. I want to go to Bedford Gardens.

The Sunbeam (indignantly). Where's that?

You. In Kensington.

The Sunbeam. That's too far. I've got another job at half-past four (or My petrol's run out).

You. If I gave you an extra shilling could you just manage it?

The Sunbeam (scowling). All right. Jump in.

This that follows also happens so frequently as to be practically the rule and not the exception:--

You. 12, Lexham Gardens.

The Sunbeam. 12, Leicester Gardens.

You. No; LEXHAM.

The Sunbeam. 12, Lexham Road?

You (shouting). No; Lexham GARDENS!

The Sunbeam. What number?

You. TWELVE!

To illustrate the power that the taxi-driver has been wielding over London during the past
week or so of mitigated festivity, let me tell a true story. I was in a cab with my old friend
Mark, one of the most ferocious sticklers for efficiency in underlings who ever sent for the
manager. His maledictions on bad waiters have led to the compulsory re-decorating of half the
restaurants of London months before their time, simply by discolouring the walls with their
intensity. Well, after immense difficulty, Mark and I, bound for the West, induced a driver
to accept us as his fare, and took our places inside.

"He looks a decent capable fellow," said Mark, who prides himself on his skill in physiognomy.
"We ought to be there in a quarter of an hour."

But we did not start. First the engine was cold. Then, that having consented and the flag being
lowered, a fellow-driver asked our man to help him with his tail-light. He did so with the
utmost friendliness and deliberation. Then they both went to the back of our cab to see how
our tail-light was doing, and talked about tail-lights together, and how easy it was to jolt
them out, and how difficult it was to know whether they had been jolted out or not, and how
jolly careful one had to be nowadays with so many blooming regulations and restrictions and things.

Meanwhile Mark was becoming purple with suppressed rage, for the clock was ticking and all
this wasted time should, in a decently-managed world, have belonged to us. But he dared not
let himself go. It was a pitiful sight--this strong man repressing impulse. At any moment I
expected to see him dash his arm through the window and tell the driver what he thought of
him; but he did not. He did nothing; but I could hear his blood boil.

Then at last our man mounted the box, and just at that moment (this is an absolutely true story)
it chanced that an errand-boy asked him the way to Panton Street, and he got down from the
box and walked quite a little way with the boy to show him. And while he was away the engine
stopped. It was then that poor Mark performed one of the most heroic feats of his life. He
still sat still; but I seemed to see his hat rising and falling, as did the lid of WATT's kettle
on that historic evening which led to so much railway trouble, from strikes and sandwiches
to Bradshaw. Still he said nothing. Nor did he speak until the engine had been started again
and we were really on our way and thoroughly late. "If it had only been in normal times," he
said grimly, "how I should have let that man have it. But one simply mustn't. It's terrible,
but they've got us by the short hairs!"

No doubt of that.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WARS OF THE PAST.

(AS RECORDED IN THE PRESS OF THE PERIOD.)

V.

FROM "THE PIRÆUS PICTORIAL."

GET A MOVE ON.

BY MR. DEMOSTHENES.

    [The brilliant Editor of "Pal Athene," who has been aptly
    styled "the leading light of the democracy," contributes what
    is perhaps the most wonderful and powerful article which we
    have had the pleasure of publishing from his trenchant pen.]

Words won't do it, my friends. We don't want speeches. We want action. I ask you to give the
Buskers socks. Kick this Chorus of Five Hundred out of the orchestra. Ostrichise the Government!
Give them the bird!

If I read my countrymen aright (and who does if I don't?), what they are saying now is, "We
must have a definite plan of strong action. We are not going to fight any longer with speeches
and despatches." That's the way, Athenians! Good luck to you! Zeus bless you. And the same
to you, Tommy Hoplites and Jack Nautes, and many of them! You don't mean PHILIP to be Tyrant
of Athens, do you? You're not going to have him turning our beautiful Parthenon into a cavalry
stable? You're not going to see the Barbarians hanging up their shields on the dear old statue
of Athene. Of course you're not. When I walk through the city and see, as I pass the houses
of my humbler brethren, the neat respectable little altars and the good old well-used wine-presses
(which I never do without breathing a little prayer, uncantingly, straight from the heart),
I say, "It's a foul calumny to pretend that the people are not all right. They are, Zeus bless
'em! All they are waiting for is a lead. And action!"

We've got to have a strong policy, my friends, and my tip to you is--"Trust the Army! Curse
the politicians!" It's no use sitting still while ÆSCHINES AND Co. are spouting. You and I,
my brothers and sisters, as I'm proud to call you, we don't spout, do we? We mean business!
And PHILIP means business too! At any moment he may come down on us and devastate our quiet
picturesque little demes which we all love so well and get disgustingly drunk on our wine.
So give us the word, ÆSCHINES AND Co.--not many words, please, but just one word--and we'll
tackle him as he ought to be tackled and put a pinch of Attic salt on his tail. We don't want
this PHILIP, but we do want a fillip of our own. Meanwhile, are we downhearted? I don't think.

(Another powerful philippic by Mr. Demosthenes next week.)

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT TO DO WITH OUR PRISONERS.

    "Private Jones, V.C., single handed captured 102 Germans;
    limited number for sale, best offers; proceeds military
    hospital."--Bazaar.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The towing to Madrid of the Greek steamer Spyros lacks
    confirmation."--Daily Telegraph.

We always had our doubts about the report.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Nevertheless, though nobody has ever sympathised with the
    goose that laid the golden eggs, it is now widely recognized
    that it was bad policy to kill him."--G.B. Shaw in "The
    Times."

Even in War-time, you will notice, "G.B.S." cannot get away from the sex-problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREMDENBLATT.--Mr. Lloyd George will recognise one day that the Allies put their heads in a
sling on the day they rejected Germany's terms."--Daily Paper.

But we may trust little DAVID to know what to do with a sling.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HIS MASTER'S VOICE.

FOR AMERICAN CONSUMPTION.

  I am the White House typewriter!
  I am the Voice of the People
  And then some!
  I speak, and the Western Hemisphere attends,
  All except Mexico and WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN,
  Who has a megaphone of his own.
  I am the soul of a great free people!
  Hence the vers libre
  Which breathes the spirit of Democracy
  Because anybody can do it.

  Who secured a second term of office for my master, President WILSON?
  Was it the War or OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD or General HARRISON GRAY OTIS?
  It was not.
  It was I!
  Though the others helped, especially Gen. OTIS.

  I am of antiquated design, as invisible as Colonel HOUSE and nearly as
      useless as Senator WORKS,
  But as my master only works me with one thumb
  (For fear of saying something that might have to be explained away)
  I do very nicely.
  And when it comes to throwing the bull
  I am the real Peruvian doughnuts.

  I was new once, but obscure,
  Wasting my freshness on a Life of Jefferson (extinct)
  And a History of the United States,
  Which by the kindness of the Democratic party and the   MCCLURE Syndicate
  Is now appearing in dignified segments on the back page of provincial
      newspapers
  Along with Dainty Diapers and Why I Love the Movies, by MARY
  PICKFORD.

  I am the Defender of Liberties!
  Never have I hesitated to tell Germany not to do it again;
  Never have I failed to protest in the severest terms when the British
      Navy threatened to interfere with business.
  Next to Mr. LANSING,
  Who is said to use a Blickensderfer,
  I am the hottest little protester in Protestville,
  And in consequence nobody loves me,
  Neither REVENTLOW nor GEORGE SYLVESTER VIERECK nor WILLIAM RANDOLPH
      HEARST;
  Nor even The Spectator,
  Which never did like Democrats, anyway.

  But now I am the Harbinger of Peace
  By special request.
  Imperial Germany,
  Sated with victory and a shortage of boiled potatoes,
  Implores me to save the Entente Powers from utter annihilation,
  And the prayer is echoed
  By Sir EDGAR SPEYER and the other neutrals.
  So my keys tap out the glad message
  Of friendship for all and trouble for none.

  I ask them what they are fighting about,
  And if it is really true that Belgium has been invaded,
  And propose that we should all  get together and talk it over
  Nice and quietly over tea and muffins
  And away from all the nasty blood and noise.

  Thus I address them,
  And humane Germany
  Almost falls on my neck in her anxiety to comply with my request;
  But the stiff-necked Entente,
  With an old-fashioned obstinacy reminiscent of the LINCOLN person at his
       worst,
  Merely utter joint and several sentiments
  The substance and effect of which appear to be
  "Nix!"

ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ONLY REGRET.

ONCE UPON A TIME.

Once upon a time a man lay dying.

He was dying very much at his ease, for he had had enough of it all.

None the less they brought a priest, who stretched his face a yard long and spoke from his
elastic-sided boots.

"This is a solemn moment," said the priest. "But sooner or later it comes to us all. You are
fortunate in having all your faculties."

The dying man smiled grimly.

"Is there any wrong that you have done that you wish redressed?" the priest asked.

"None that I can remember," said the dying man.

"But you are sorry for such wrong as you have done?"

"I don't know that I am," said the dying man. "I was a very poor hand at doing wrong. But there
are some so-called good deeds that I could wish undone which are still bearing evil fruit."

The priest looked pained. "But you would not hold that you have not been wicked?" he said.

"Not conspicuously enough to worry about," replied the other. "Most of my excursions into what
you would call wickedness were merely attempts to learn more about this wonderful world into
which we are projected. It's largely a matter of temperament, and I've been more attracted
by the gentle things than the desperate. Strange as you may think it, I die without fear."

"But surely there are matters for regret in your life?" the priest, who was a conscientious
man, inquired earnestly.

"Ah!" said the dying man. "Regret? That's another matter. Have I no occasion for regret? Have
I not? Have I not?"

The priest cheered up. "For opportunities lost," he said. "The lost opportunities--how sad
a theme, how melancholy a retrospect! Tell me of them."

"I said nothing about lost opportunities," the dying man replied; "I said that there was much
to regret, and there is; but there were no opportunities that in this particular I neglected.
They simply did not present themselves often enough."

"Tell me of this sorrow," said the priest. "Perhaps I may be able to comfort you."

The dying man again smiled his grim smile. "My greatest regret," he said, "and one, unhappily,
that could never be remedied, even if I lived to be a thousand, is--"

"Yes, yes," said the priest, leaning nearer.

"Is," said the dying man, "that I have known so few children."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"ABSENTEE ARRESTED.

    Sergeant Storr stated that he saw Shann on a lighter in the
    Old Harbour. He failed to produce his registration card and
    could offer no reason why he had not reported for service.
    Subsequently he said he was 422 years of age."--Hull Daily
    News.

Passed for centenarian duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, strong Boy, about 14, for milk cart; to live
    in."--Provincial Paper.

He will at least have the advantage of living close to his work.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE BHAKTHI MARGA PRASANGA SABHA.--At Nagappa Chetty Pillayar
    Vasantha Mantapam, 322 Thumbu Chetty Street, Georgetown,
    to-morrow 4 P.M. Bramhasri Mangudi Chidambara Bhagavathar will
    give a harikatha on 'Pittukkumansuman tha Thiruvilayadal.'"
    --Madras Paper.

We like the words and should be glad to hear the tune.

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN.

(SECOND SERIES.)

XII.

CHERRY GARDENS.

  Where d'ye buy your earrings,
  Your pretty bobbing earrings,
  Where d'ye buy your earrings,
    Moll and Sue and Nan?
  In the Cherry Gardens
  They sell 'em eight a penny,
  And let you eat as many
    As ever you can.

  Moll's are ruddy coral,
  Sue's are glossy jet,
  Nan's are yellow ivory,
    Swinging on their stems.
  O you lucky damsels
  To get in Cherry Gardens
  Earrings for your fardens
    Comelier than gems!

XIII.

NEWINGTON BUTTS.

  The bung is lost from Newington Butts!
  The beer is running in all the ruts,
  The gutters are swimming, the Butts are dry,
  Lackadaisy! and so am I.
  Who was the thief that stole the bung?
  I shall go hopping the day he's hung!

XIV.

NINE ELMS.

  Nine Elms in a ring:
  In One I saw a Robin swing,
  In Two a Peacock spread his tail,
  In Three I heard the Nightingale,
  In Four a White Owl hid with craft,
  In Five a Green Woodpecker laughed,
  In Six a Wood-dove croodled low,
  In Seven lived a quarrelling Crow,
  In Eight a million Starlings flew,
  In Nine a Cuckoo said, "Cuckoo!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "On Sale, 2,300 Oak barrels; edible: offers
    wanted."--Manchester Evening News.

Are these the first-fruits of the new Food Control?

       *       *       *       *       *

From battalion orders:--

    "Men transferred from Command Depôt will be fed up to the day
    of departure."

Even commanding officers occasionally have a glimpse of the obvious.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In expressing regret that we had dropped the word 'culture'
    out of our vocabulary because of Germany, the Archdeacon of
    Middlesex gave the following definitions:--

    'Kultur'--Had for 'Culture.'--A word its god the State,
    and which describes a was practically spirit of sympathy
    materialism, the result with all that is beaubeing
    simply mechanitiful, true, honest, cal efficiency, and
    pure."--Liverpool Echo.

Even now it is not very clear.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOKING THEM OFF.

It is reported that, should the measures recently adopted by the railway companies with a view
to "discourage unnecessary travelling" prove insufficient, other expedients, of a more stringent
character, may be resorted to. By the courtesy of an official we are able to give details of
some further innovations that have been suggested.

(I.) The Platform Staff at the chief stations will be specially trained to answer all enquiries
from civilian passengers in an ambiguous or quasi-humorous manner.

Thus detailed instructions are to be issued giving the correct form of reply to such questions
as, "Can I take this train to Rugby?" The answer in this case will convey a jocular suggestion
that the task is best left to the engine-driver; and others in the same style.

In all cases of urgency the formula "Wait and see" to be freely employed for purposes of discouragement.

(II.) In the case of exceptionally popular tickets, such as those to Brighton, a strictly limited
number of impressions to be struck off, which will be disposed of by public auction to the
highest bidder.

(III.) When stoppages (whether necessary or disciplinary) take place between stations, preference
to be given to the interior of tunnels. All artificial light will then be cut off, and the
officials of the train will run up and down the corridors howling like wolves.

(IV.) On hearing the declaration of any would-be traveller (as "Margate") it shall be optional
for the booking-clerk to reply, "I double Margate"; when his opponent, the public, must either
pay twice the already increased fare or forfeit the journey.

(V.) The quality of buns, pastry and sandwiches at the station refreshment-rooms to be drastically
revised. A return to be made to the more "discouraging" models of fifty years ago, which will
be specially manufactured under the supervision of the Ministry of Munitions.

(VI.) All the too-attractive photographs of agreeable places on the company's service at present
exhibited in the compartments to be removed, and in place of them the frames to be filled with
such chastening subjects as "Marine Drive at Slushboro' on a Wet Evening," "No Bathing To-day"
(Bude), or "Fac-simile of a typical week-end bill at the Hotel Superb, Shrimpville." It is
felt that if this last item does not cause people to stop at home nothing will.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "GRIZZLY BEARS AT THE ZOO.

    Lieutenant-General Sir W.R. Robertson, Chief of the Imperial
    General Staff, was unanimously elected an hon. member of
    the Zoological Society of London at the December general
    meeting."--The Times.

           *       *       *       *       *

    "By a Ministerial decree, chickens can be raised in the
    courtyards of houses in Rome."--Daily Express.

And we are now confidently expecting some "Lays of Modern Rome."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "£5 REWARD,--Lost, on November 28th, in Kensington, BLACK
    ABERDEEN TERRIER, name 'Cinders' on collar, also Lt.-Col.
    ---- and badge of S.W.B. Regiment.--Kindly return to Mrs.
    ----."--The Times.

Let us hope the Colonel at least has found his way home.

       *       *       *       *       *

ULTIMUS.

  His shape was domed and his colour brown,
  And I took him up and I get him down
  In the lamp's full light, in the very front of it,
  Ready and glad to bear the brunt of it;
  And then, having raised my hand and blessed him,
  I thus in appropriate words addressed him:--
  "Oh, soon to be numbered with the dead,
  Your fortunate brothers, prepare," I said,
  "Prepare to vanish this very day
  And go to your doom the silent way.
  For DEVONPORT's Lord will soon decree,
  With his eye on you and his eye on me,
  That you're only a useless luxury;
  And, since the War on the whole continues,
  We must tighten our belts and brace our sinews,
  And give up the things we liked before,
  And never, like Oliver, ask for more.
  Since this is so and the War endures,
  I am bound to abandon you and yours,
  And wherever I meet you I must frown
  On your sweet white core and your coat of brown.
  But no, since you are the only one,
  The last of a line that is spent and done,
  I shall give myself pleasure once again
  And set you free from a life of pain.
  Prepare, prepare, for I mean to punch you,
  My lonely  friend, and to crunch and munch you."

  So saying I smiled in a sort of dream
  On my absolute ultimate chocolate-cream;
  Then swiftly I reached my hand to get him
  And popped him into my mouth and ate him.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TACTICS.

"Maman! à quel saint prie-t-on--" began Jeanne. Ah! but no, a recollection flashed across her
mind and was reinforced by other memories. "J'en ai fini avec les saints," she mused, proceeding
to the other end of the room where, full of intention, she busied herself among some books.
Yes, she was now quite disillusioned; that latest blow, on her recent tenth birthday, had confirmed
finally her long-growing suspicion--prayer to the saints was unavailing.

After a time; "Maman, pour que Papa vienne en permission à qui faut-il que l'on s'adresse?"

"A son colonel, mon enfant. Mais, ma fi-fille, tu sais...!"

Jeanne, with an air of having something to decide for herself, paid no heed, but resumed the
study of her picture-book description of the French Army, murmuring: "Un colonel--est-ce que
c'est comme un saint, ou bien est-ce que c'est comme le bon Dieu lui-même?"

Some moments of deep silence spent in intense study ended with a triumphant: "Bon! j'y suis."
That was exactly what she had wished to discover, the very source of power. "'Les officiers
attachés à un général pour l'exécution et la transmission de ses ordres,'" re-read Jeanne,
and commented, "Et tout cela s'appelle l'é-tat ma-jor du général. Bon! c'est bien comme je
le pensais; c'est le général qui est à la tête de tout."

Her course was now quite clear. She urged and encouraged herself: "Il faut absolument que Papa
vienne en permission. Je--le--veux!" And, that her intentions might not be thwarted, absolute
secrecy must be maintained, at least in so far as the chapter relating to her terrestrial tactics
was concerned; no one would oppose intercession auprès du bon Dieu.

"Il faut m'adresser à tous les deux en même temps," pronounced Jeanne, taking a sheet of note-paper.
"J'écris directement au général" (since time and space have to be allowed for in earthly negotiations,
the order must be thus)--"et je prie le bon Dieu en personne." That both positions should be
assailed simultaneously, operations must be begun in this quarter in the morning, at the hour
of the first postal delivery.

"Point de saints, ni de colonels--maintenant je comprends--l'é-tat-ma-jor dans l'Armée et les
saints au Paradis, c'est tout comme!"

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"PUSS IN NEW BOOTS."

Five hours is a great space out of a man's life, but that was precisely the time taken by Mr.
ARTHUR COLLINS to present his Puss in New Boots, so that I had leisure to study the book of
the words, sold shamelessly to the unsuspecting (of whom I was not one), and compare the rough
sketches of our three standard authors of the Lane, Messrs. COLLINS, SIMS and DIX with the
version, by no manner of means final, of the comedians. A pantomime book is on the whole rather
a mournfully unsubtle document. The thing is frankly not meant to be read when the blood is
cool. It is the Action, Action and again Action of such hefty knock-abouts as WILL EVANS, ROBERT
HALE and STANLEY LUPINO that makes the dry bones live and the old squibs crackle. And it is
good fun to watch the audience at their share of authorship, setting the seal of their approval
upon the happy wheeze, the well-contrived business, and blue-pencilling with their silence
the wash-out or the too obscure allusion.

The show is substantially new throughout--new songs, new scenery, new japes, new acrobatics.
A new Puss, too, as well as new boots; and, without any reflection on little Miss LENNIE DEANE,
who was quite an adequate Puss of pantomime, we may regret Miss RENÉE MAYER.

Miss FLORENCE SMITHSON still delights the curious with her Swedish exercises in alt, and makes
a very pretty lady of high degree for a pantomime marquis, who is no other than Miss MADGE
TITHERADGE stepping down from the "legitimate" and bringing an air and an elocution unusual
and admirable. She made her excellent speaking voice do duty in recitative for song, and the
innovation is not unpleasing. If it be fair in frivolous public places to dig down to those
thoughts that better lie too deep for tears, Mr. ALFRED NOYES' A Song of England, clear spoken
by her with tenderness and spirit, is a better instrument than most.

Mr. HALE's Baroness challenges comparison with Mr. GEORGE GRAVES's. She is perhaps more womanly
("no ordinary" type), less grotesquely irrelevant and profane--though she does her bit. On
the other hand, she is more active and less repetitive. When, the good fairy endowing her with
beauty, she appeared as DORIS KEANE in Romance, that was an applauded stroke. And when she
lied beneath the tree of truth and the chestnuts fell each time truth was mishandled, thickest
of all when it was asserted that a certain Scotch comedian had refused his salary, this was
also very well received. On the whole, then, a satisfactory Baroness.

Mr. LUPINO (the miller's second son) is really an exquisite droll, and I don't remember to
have seen him in better form. He has some of the authentic ingredients of the old circus clown--a
very valuable inheritance.

Mr. WILL EVANS is always good to watch, always has that air of enjoying himself immensely that
is the readiest way to favour. He seemed at times to be, as it were, looking wistfully for
his old pal, GRAVES; missed probably that companionable nose and those reliable da capos which
give such opportunity for the manufacture of gags; whereas Mr. HALE is a "thruster." But cooking
the recherché dinner in the gas cooker that becomes a tank, and putting up the blind and laying
the carpet--here was the WILL EVANS that the children of all ages applaud.

I always find the Lane big scenes and ballets more full of competing colour and restless movement
than of controlled design. But the Hall of Fantasy, with its spiral staircases reaching to
the flies, was an ambitious effort crowned with success. The dance of the eight tiny zanies
was the best of the ballet. The Shakspearean pageant at the end might be (1) shortened, and
(2) brightened by the characters throwing a little more conviction into their respective aspects--notably
the ghost of Hamlet's father. However, as a popular tercentenary tribute to "our Shakspeare"
the scheme is to be commended and was as such approved.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SPIRITUAL SPORTSMAN.

    [The Executive of the German Sporting Clubs and Athletic
    Associations have issued a manifesto expressing satisfaction
    at the substitution of German for English words and phrases.
    "German sport," it declares, "in future places itself
    unreservedly on the side of those who would further German
    Kultur. German Song and German Art will in future find a
    home in German sport." This new patriotic programme has been
    greatly applauded in the Press, the Berliner Tageblatt
    observing that the culture of soul and body must proceed
    pari passu, with the result that "not only will the German
    sportsman become a beautiful body, but a beautiful soul
    as well. Every club must have its library, not filled with
    sensational novels, but with works of art. And before all else
    the club-house must be architecturally beautiful--an object
    from which he may obtain spiritual edification."]

  The German is seldom amusing,
    Since humour is hardly his forte,
  But I've frequently smiled in perusing
    His latest pronouncement on sport;
  For it seems that he thinks it the duty
    Of sportsmen to aim at the goal
  Of adding to bodily beauty
    A beauty of soul.

  They've made a good start by proscribing
    All English and Anglicised terms,
  To counter the risk of imbibing
    Debased philological germs;
  And they've coined a new wonderful lingo,
    Which only a Teuton can talk,
  Resembling the yelp of a dingo,
    A cormorant's squawk.

  But in spite of his prowess Titanic,
    His marvellous physical gift,
  The soul of the athlete Germanic
    Still clamours for moral uplift;
  So we learn without any emotion
    That, his ultimate aim to secure,
  He must bathe in the bountiful ocean
    Of German Kultur.

  In the process of character-building
    Hun Art (Simplicissimus brand),
  With its rococo carving and gilding,
    Must ever advance hand in hand
  With its sister, Hun Song, that inspiring
    And exquisite engine of Hate,
  Whose efforts we've all been admiring
    So largely of late.

  Thus, freed from all sentiment sickly,
    The sportsman whom Germany needs
  Will help to exterminate quickly
    All weak and effeminate breeds;
  And, trained in the gospel of BISSING,
    Will cleave to the Hun decalogue
  Which rivets the link, rarely missing,
    'Twixt him and the hog.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Parlourmaid wanted for Sussex; under parlourmaid kept; Roman
    Catholic and spectacles objected to."

Our own preference is for a Plymouth Sister with pince-nez.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS.)

