It was like that till New London. I was rather silly there, I am afraid, but I was so tired
of being with Mr. Caspian every minute. He seems to squeeze out my vitality like water from
a sponge! I took a revenge by making him tired--in his feet, not his head. We all left him
to go home and rest and be very cross while we enjoyed ourselves. But it is not me he would
punish for that. It is poor Peter Storm! He begins to be jealous again as before, and I am
afraid he may do the horrid thing he has threatened to do. A word he dropped made me think
of it. I wish I could give Mr. Storm some hint to be careful. But even when I see him again
(it won't be till day after to-morrow) I shall not dare. Perhaps I can get Molly to speak.

I can't help missing Mr. Storm when we go about seeing beautiful things. I told you long ago
I liked seeing things with him. But I keep with Molly and Jack Winston as much as I can when
we are out of doors, here at Newport. Larry's friends are very good. They let us go about as
we like and come in when we like. Now that Mr. Storm is away, Mr. Caspian does not worry to
be with me every minute. He knows some fearfully rich people at Newport. It is strange, isn't
it, that he likes rich people much better than poor (except Larry and me), though he used to
be a socialist and give lectures against capital? Peter Storm says that to be a true socialist
is the finest thing in the world, and can save the world from itself; but I do not think Mr.
Caspian can have been that kind, as he does not even like to talk of socialism now.

His friends here, the Hodges, live in a house which Jack Winston says could swallow up and
digest Buckingham Palace. He has made me meet them, and they are very pleasant, but not so
restful as the Langworthys, where we stay. When the Hodges find I want to see sights, they
are surprised and laugh. It is not the fashion with people who live at Newport to see sights.
They have seen everything in the whole world, and care only for seeing each other--the ones
they know. Nobody else is worth knowing. Mr. Caspian tries to be like that, but it seems an
imitation. With the real ones it is true, and not for effect.

It seems that our family must be very old, because everybody, even these grandest ones, are
kind to us, and think it is great fun that we keep a hotel. Molly and Jack they like of course,
because M. and J. are "great swells."

Now, chérie, I must stop, and go for a walk with them. Molly calls it a "potter." But you will
not know what that word means!

   A hundred wishes and loves! Your

                                                              PATRICE.

XX

NIGHT LETTER TELEGRAM FROM PETER STORM TO JAMES STRICKLAND

                                                         New London.

Just missed getting into scrape here. Saved by presence of mind. You have heard me speak of
Ipanoff. Met him accidentally. He has relatives seeing America, awaiting them New London; found
me instead. Shall stay to-morrow, letting my party go on. Meet Fall River by train. Couldn't
stand Newport. Writing you on business.

                                                                  P. S.

XXI

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                  A Gorgeous Hotel in dear old Boston.

BEST MERCÉDES:

I am thrilled with New England! It has got into my blood, which is of the south. Why do we--you
and I and the rest of us--dash over to Europe before we're old enough to see much of and appreciate
our own country? Still, I'm thankful we did, or we shouldn't have met Jack or Monty.

Are you tired of travelling with me and my Lightning Conductor? You said you couldn't, wouldn't,
shouldn't be; so if you've changed your mind, you've brought this on yourself.

I didn't quite realize, even with my first warm glow of admiration, all that New England meant,
in a concrete way. I realized the beauty, the individual charm, the historic interest, but
now I'm beginning to put them together in a bouquet where one flower sets off another. Oh,
dear, I wish that not quite so many things had happened before our day! It would have been
easier to sort them about a hundred and fifty years ago. Yet, a hundred and fifty years ago
there wouldn't have been an Emerson, a Thoreau, a Hawthorne, a Longfellow, a Whittier, a Bryant,
a Lowell, or an Oliver Wendell Holmes, to say nothing of half a dozen others I'm too excited
to recall at the moment. It would have been sad to come here before they lived and embroidered
the tapestry of life with their lovely thoughts--almost the difference between travelling on
a gray day and in clear sunshine. For New England belongs to these philosophers and poets just
as much as it belongs to the Indians and Puritans and Soldiers of the Revolution.

Now you see what my mood is! I think Jack has inspired it, for he can quote most of the New
England writers, if not by the yard at least by the inch. He says he used to learn their wit
and wisdom to repeat "at his mother's knee." I shouldn't have supposed Lady Brightelmston's
knee capable of it; but one never knows!

The last time I wrote you was at New London. I posted the letter at Groton, I remember, because
I was thinking so hard of "The Peter Storm Mystery" that everything else went out of my head.
My dear, he stayed behind, with his Russian friend, leaving Pat to the mercy of Caspian!

You have to cross by ferry to get to Groton--old Fort Griswold--and the New London side is
too amusing. Practically all the boy population of America seemed to be there to see us off.
They had come on purpose to tell motorists what to do and whither to proceed, thus extracting
dimes in gratitude or blackmail. Good gracious! If we tried to do half the things they advised,
nay, insisted on, we'd be as busy as bees the rest of our lives or else go mad! I can tell
you we were thankful to escape on to the charming, peaceful road we found after the ferry had
shed us on the other side. Soon we turned off on to a rough short cut; but it was fascinating,
too, and would have been like scenery on the Crinan Canal if it hadn't been still more like
itself. The hydrangeas growing in the gardens were marvellous, great trees of them, with different
shaped flowers from ordinary human hydrangeas, flowers like huge bunches of white grapes seen
from a distance. The flat blue and pink kind prefer to grow close by the shore. There was another
darling tree--one on every lawn nearly--Rose of Sharon. Do you know it? The name alone makes
Jack glad he came to America. And then, the colour of the marshes!--crimson and orange-gold,
with streaks of emerald. Where there weren't marshes, the meadows were white with Queen Anne's
lace. She must have sent a lot of it to America! Tiger lilies grew wild, dazzling colonies
of them, and from gray rocks ferns spurted and showered. Isn't it charming that a river called
the Mystic should run, or, rather, gently dawdle, through a world like this? Its mother is
the Sound; and perhaps because it's very historic, it justified its dignity by leading us out
of this flowery fairyland, past stern, faded farmhouses to a wide country of rolling downs,
bathed in silver light--downs whose sides were spread with forests like dark tracts of shadow.

We passed through Westerly of the granite quarries, and suddenly we realized that we were in
Rhode Island. Don't you like the name "Watch Hill?" I do. And I liked the place, which "summer
people" love. But all the neighbourhood is enchanting. It doesn't matter where you stay! I
never saw so many flowers, wild and tame: tame hydrangeas, wild grapes, wild spirea and bayberry,
half-tamed, worried-looking sunflowers, with so much sun they don't know which way to turn.
All this within sight of the Sound, with islands and necks of blue-green land like a door ajar
to the ocean.

It was a fine drive, after Wakefield, along the Narragansett front, the most countrylike road
imaginable, with wild shrubbery on either side, and then the most ultra-civilized hotels, an
army of them on parade, with the sea for their drill sergeant.

At Saunderstown we took ferry for Newport--a double ferry, but neither journey was long. A
mist floated over the water like the ghost of the Queen Anne lace we had passed; but we had
glimpses of Fort Greble and Fort Adams. Oh, there's heaps to see at Newport besides the haunts
of the Four Hundred! We landed at last in a dear old town with quaint but rich-looking houses
of retired sea captains and other comfortable folk who simply don't exist for the eyes of Society,
though they no doubt have a background crowded with brave ancestors. Jack and I meant to stop
at a nice little hotel which exists apologetically; but friends of Larry's insisted on our
staying with them. We should have thought up some excuse to refuse (not that we'd fib: but
it's fair to economize truth at times!) if Pat hadn't begged us to accept. You see, Ed Caspian
was invited as her fiancé, and Mrs. Shuster as Larry's, and there was to be a dinner in honour
of the two couples. The poor child, a lamb led to the slaughter, seemed to think that the altar
of sacrifice would be more tolerable if we were present to scatter rosemary and rue upon it.
We consented, of course. But I felt quite hard toward Peter Storm, who had, in a way, been
appointed by Jack and himself as her unofficial guardian in the Grayles-Grice, and had apparently
failed her by stopping behind with his Russian.

We were able to relieve the strain a little by taking the girl out for walks in the old town,
a part of Newport most interesting to us, least interesting to Caspian. Dear Father brought
me once to Newport to visit people in a house which called itself a cottage and looked like
a castle, but that was when I was seventeen, in a summer holiday in the midst of school life.
I had the intense ambition of a flapper to be a débutante; and because I envied girls who were
"out" I did all I could to usurp their prerogatives by flirting and "dressing up." I didn't
care a rap for anything or anybody over thirty. The Casino, the Yacht Club, Bellevue Avenue
for shopping or driving, Bailey's Beach, that haven for any modern Venus to rise from the foam
if she has a lovely bathing dress, the twelve-mile Ocean Drive in all its luxury and millionairish
beauty--these represented Newport for me; and I bet they'd have meant the same for you in your
salad days! They're still great fun, and perfectly delightful and almost unique, it is true,
but now I feel, with Jack, the "call of the past." The Old Stone Mill, with its contradictory
histories, is more fascinating than the Casino. I could get quite hot and angry arguing with
any one who disputes the fact--fact, I say!--that this extraordinary gray-stone tower draped
with creepers and backed with trees is the memorial of a Viking's wife. Longfellow's "The Skeleton
in Armour" was one of those poems which Lady Brighthelmston's knee taught to Jack. "Speak,
speak, thou fearful guest!" I had forgotten, I'm ashamed to say, but Jack has reminded me about
the figure in "rude armour drest" which appeared when they took away a wall. I just won't have
my Viking Tower torn out of the eleventh century and stuck into the seventeenth. So there!
I don't see why it isn't right to believe the nicest things in the past of a country instead
of the worst, as you must do with a woman, if you're not a cat!

Pat and I are going to read Fenimore Cooper's "Red Rover" because the scenes are laid in this
neighbourhood; at least I am going to read it, and Pat will if Caspian gives her a chance to
do anything intelligent in future. He won't if he can help it, I'm sure! You ought to have
seen the boiled codfish look in his eyes when Pat, arriving at Moon Pond after an excursion
with us, tried to entertain him by talking of Matthew Perry building the first steam vessel
in the American Navy and arranging a treaty that opened the door of Japan to the west! There's
a monument to him in the park, and we'd been looking at it.

Well, in spite of Fate, I think the child enjoyed her Newport days, if not her Newport evenings,
and indeed, she seemed to have the feeling that they were snatched from the jaws of the said
ruthless lady. We mooned about among the entirely charming and more or less famous houses,
in what ought to be called Oldport, a very, very important place for more than a hundred years
before a tidal wave of fashion swept over it about the middle of the eighteenth century: great
families coming in their own schooners, with their servants and horses, from Charleston and
Savannah. You can't think of the exciting, historic things we found out in our "moonings":
history on the sea, even before Captain Kidd's privateers were being chased along the shore,
for Rhode Island always "loved to fight if she could fight on the sea"; history on land, from
the time that the inhabitants were abandoning their houses in fear of Sir Henry Clinton and
the British fleet, up to these brilliant days of Astors and Belmonts and Vanderbilts. Jack
and I got so resigned to visiting Larry's pleasant friends that we should have been sorry to
leave if it hadn't been for our curiosity to see "what would happen next" in the Peter affair.

The last thing we did was to get up with the sun and start out for an excursion to the Forty
Steps. But, after all, Jack was too lame to manage them. He was very cut up, but his sense
of humour came to the rescue as usual, and he was showing a brave face again when we started
off in the motor once more, for Fall River--and beyond. Then, if not before, we should have
realized what a marvellous frame Newport has. I suppose in some ways no other spot is equal
to it. Even Jack says that, and there are few of the great show places of the world he hasn't
seen. As a send-off, we gave ourselves a detour and said good-bye to the Ocean Drive. The fleet,
which had been visiting for several days, was steaming off to sea. We looked across walls of
blue hydrangeas and "rosa rugosa" hung with berries like lumps of coral, out to the gray ships
speeding fast through cataracts of sapphire spray. It was a wonderful sight and a wonderful
day! The morning sun seemed to paint the rocks purple and turn the high spurting surf to fountains
of diamonds. It lit the young gold of maple trees, and the delicate crysophrase green of weeping
beeches that sweep the lawns along the twelve-mile drive (consoled Niobes weeping only happy
tears!) and threw ladders of light down to the marshes. You will think I am always writing
you about marshes. But these are super-marshes. If there are marshes by the Sea of Glass they
must be like these. They are so full of faded rainbows that their colour seems to drain into
the crystal veins of water which wind into them from inlets of the sea, and turn the crystal
into deep-dyed amethysts.

As we went on along the shore, the tiny waves ruffled under our eyes like frills of lace on
a baby's baptismal dress. The sea became a wide river with dreamland visioned on the other
side. Oh, what a contrast to all the beauty of the "Peaceful Isle" and its surroundings to
dash into Fall River! Here and there is a house, or a charming name of a street, to tell that
it was once a pleasant old village like other New England villages, but Commerce has sacked
it of all that is beautiful--or, if it has left anything by mistake, we didn't see it. The
ugly, work-marred town smote us like a blow in the face, and yet we saw that it has its own
fierce, flaunting interest. I shall never again think of a Fall River boat as a restful thing.
A Fall River boat was all I knew of Fall River before, except that a big Revolutionary battle
was fought there. Now a battle between Labour and Capital is ceaselessly going on. It was a
joy--a selfish joy, perhaps--to spin out of the town limits and come into Devonshire. Really,
it was Devonshire--Devonshire in look and in the names of places. What of Taunton, for instance?
So we flew on to Boston, through a series of exquisite parks such as surely no other city in
the world can have for a frame.

*

There was just one attractive feature about Fall River for us: not the Picture Palaces, of
which there must be about a million; not the coloured posters of the Azores, put up to please
the homesick Portuguese labourers, but the reappearance of Peter Storm. Frankly, dearest, I
had been afraid in my inmost heart that the Mystery was going to close round Peter like a dark
cloud, hiding him from our sight forever. Caspian had perhaps hoped that this might be the
case. But Peter had said that he would be found standing at the corner of Elm Street (there
wasn't an elm in it, or any other tree), and there he was, though we were early at the rendezvous
rather than late.

I forgot to tell you that Pat started out from Newport in our car, the bride and bridegroom
squeezing into the Grayles-Grice. I'd accused the girl of not looking well--a stupidity of
which I should never be capable if I hadn't an object to gain--and she had owned to a slight
headache. I said that I had some wonderful pillules that I could give her; but I must administer
them myself, and they must be taken every half-hour. Of course there was nothing for it but
she must come to us; and she brightened visibly with every mile, though whether owing to the
pillules or the increasing nearness of Fall River, I can't say, and wouldn't if I could.

Having disposed of the honeymooners, there was room in our car for Peter. Jack and I had manoeuvred
(by taking a short cut Jack found on a map) to reach Elm Street first; so we did a sort of
Sabine business reversed: snatched up Peter and dashed on. I could almost hear Ed Caspian gnashing
his teeth in the G.-G. just behind. It was a sound like something wrong with the gear.

Boston you perhaps know more about than I do, at any rate from books. But you would like to
see Jack here--and Monty with him, of course: two wounded heroes enjoying a well-earned repose,
as many a wounded hero has enjoyed in other days. He--Jack--wonders if the famous Tea is lying
at the bottom of the harbour still, in hermetically sealed tins, and whether it improves with age.

I broke it to you with the top of my letter that we're in a perfectly gorgeous hotel. Jack
and I have a suite which would be good enough for a king and queen. He was determined that
we'd "do ourselves well," as we are to stay several days, running out to Plymouth and so on,
and running back. We've been here now only one night and a morning, but already our sitting-room
looks, in some ways, as if we'd taken it for life. Flowers, of course! Jack always buys me
flowers; and books--books--books: Longfellow, Hawthorne, Whittier, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and
some glorified guides in volume form. I said, "Are we to carry all these in the car? We shall
be boiling over with books, swamped with books, buried under books as Tarpeia was under the
shields and bracelets!" But Jack had made his plans. They will be sent home to Awepesha by
the hotel people when we go, and we are to have the comfort of them here. As nobody else will
have any books, they'll offer Pat an excuse to drop in on us--Peter, too. Jack ought to give
"penny readings," I think!

I haven't, by the way, got any satisfaction out of Peter. We are partners in the Caspian-Shuster
plot, but his plot he keeps to himself. I wonder what, from all I have told you, Mercédes,
you think of him?

In spite of everything, Jack and I believe that he's all right, and vaguely we look for a Great
Surprise, though of what nature we cannot say. I wish it would come before we get into Aunt
Mary-land. I begin to need something to brace me up!

Love!                        Ever your                          MOLLY.

XXII

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                        Still Boston.

DEAR ONE:

I was wishing for a surprise, and it came. But it hasn't explained anything. It has only thickened
the plot--thickened it like porridge made of Boston beans.

I didn't mean to inflict another letter upon you quite so soon; but I'm so full of the surprise--and
"beans," too--heavenly Boston ones, very brown, and crisp on top--that I can't wait.

My last night's budget was posted to you only this morning early, when Jack and I were going
out to discover what every (other) man and woman knows about the Hub of the Universe. All day
long we were so busy seeing and doing things in this delightful, intimate personality that
I lost my Stormy Petrel emotion in a crowd of other emotions. Usually when we stop anywhere,
and are not in the car most of the day, Mrs. Shuster finds work for Peter to do. She and ex-Senator
Collinge give him sheafs of notes to elaborate into letters or articles for the papers which
propagate their ideas. I think--and have thought from the first--that this plan of campaign
is more to please the Ally (Caspian) than from any pressing need for such work to be done en
route. Mrs. Shuster impulsively engaged Storm before Caspian met him, and very likely made
some sort of contract to which he can hold her if he chooses. Besides, she admires him as much
as ever, though she admires Larry more, and in her silly, blundering way, she plays a double
game. All sweetness and light to Storm when she's with him, and immense pride in him as an
employé--the pride a small, dull comet might feel in attracting attention to itself by trailing
a disproportionately brilliant tail across the sky. All specious promises and excuses to Caspian
when she's with him and not with Peter. Caspian, you remember, used to be a protégé of hers
when he was a rising young socialist, and she was the widow of a quaint genius who'd made a
fortune in some weird patent to keep your hair from decaying, or your teeth from falling out.
Now, he's a rising young millionaire, accepted by People Who Matter; and he can do more for
her than she for him, socially. So she has to be nice to him, no matter how she feels, and
"keep him sweet," anyhow until she's quite sure of Larry and his ancestors to back her up.
That's the way I account for Peter's being kept on, though of course there's the fact that
Caspian enjoys bullying him now that he's down.

Anyhow, that's the situation on the surface. When we motor, the Stormy Petrel submits himself
for the present to the boot of the tyrant in the Grayles-Grice. When we leave the motor, Peter
is left, too, and chained to his duties. But, so long as he gets through his tasks at the appointed
time, no questions can be asked as to how he spends the extra hours. And the speed with which
he does get through those tasks is miraculous as that of Psyche sorting the grains of wheat
at the order of mother-in-law Venus! Psyche had all the kingdom of ants to help her. But who
helps Peter? One can't suppose that he's rich enough to fling all his salary to an understudy
while he gads. Yet I've seen him going to his room with a sheaf of papers which would keep
the nose of a common secretary at the grindstone for six or seven hours, whereas P. S. is free
to do as he pleases in less than half that time.

This long preamble explains why Peter Storm didn't start out with us this morning, though we
picked him up at Fall River and brought him on to Boston, as I told you, and why he was nevertheless
able to appear casually in Cambridge. We came across him in the college yard, just as we were
"processing" through the big gateway, guided by the Boys, proud, happy Boys, showing off their
Alma Mater to their Best Girl and her satellites!

"If I'd had an education, here's where I should like to have got it," Peter remarked, calmly
joining our forces, unabashed by Caspian's stare.

"You haven't finished all that stuff the Senator and I gave you!" gasped Lily, knowing that
the eye of Ed had travelled reproachfully to her.

"That's all right, Mrs. Shuster," was Peter's airy reply. "When you get home, you'll find that
everything has been duly posted."

There was nothing more to be said on the subject. And though Peter referred to himself as a
person of no education, he seemed to know more about Cambridge than the Boys themselves--quite
as much as Jack, who has been studying up the place as if for an exam!

It really is charming, that college yard, you know, Mercédes--just as charming in its way,
Jack admits, as bits of Oxford, or the old Cambridge for which this darling place was named.
Once it was called Newton, but after the great event in 1636--the granting by the General Court
of Massachusetts Bay of four hundred pounds "towards a schoole or colledge"--they decided that
it ought to be called Cambridge. Nearly all the buildings contrive to look rather venerable
(they cloak themselves with creepers), but some, like Massachusetts Hall and Harvard Hall,
and several houses, are really old. Tom, Dick, and Harry put on the air of graybeards returning,
after a half-century of adventure, to their childhood's home, though they left college only
last year to go abroad. It was funny to see the patronizing looks they cast on the undergrads
we saw; but they were the life of the place for us, all the same, and we felt truly in it,
chaperoned by them. Outside college bounds, however, they lost interest. It was Jack who had
to tell us about "Brattle." As far as the Boys were concerned, it might have been any ordinary
street, instead of the street of the world, as it is to true hearts of Cambridge. In Cambridge
the smart thing is to be rather dowdy, just as it is at Oxford, and in Cambridge of England;
and so, as we had got ourselves up to dazzle Boston (a difficult task, I must say!), we were
conspicuously, ignominiously tourists as we gazed in reverence at Washington's Elm, at Longfellow's
exquisite old primrose yellow house, and the other historic incarnations of Cambridge's past.
Only the Boys were not subject to the pitying scorn of Society. They didn't have on their worst
clothes, because they have neither best nor worst, but what they had on was it. And possessing
no hats was greatly in their favour. By the way, did you know that Cambridge is the first place
where a printing press was set up in America? I didn't. It remained for my English Jack to
inform me of the fact.

This Cambridge expedition was in the afternoon I neglected to mention. Our morning (while Peter
doubtless toiled) had been spent in the wonderful Public Library of Boston itself. We'd meant
to do more and other things, but one could stay a week in that library, which I believe started
with just ten thousand books! Everything is beautiful about it, from the pale-pink granites
and brown Spanish tiles without to the St. Gauden lions who guard the great marble staircase
within. Sargent's "Religions of the World" is a noble decoration, and Abbey's frieze of the
Holy Grail is beautiful, but the panel paintings of Puvis de Chavannes--"The Muses Greeting
the Genius of Enlightenment"--are worth while coming from London or Paris to Boston to see.

After we motored back from Cambridge we wandered about here and there, seeing the "Cradle of
American Liberty," the "Sanctuary of Freedom," and the place "where Independence was born."
Unless you have the key, you won't be able to unlock this saying, so I'll do it for you. Why,
they call Faneuil Hall the "Cradle of Liberty" because they used to hold all the town meetings
there to discuss whether they should revolt against British rule or no; so Liberty must have
rocked to and fro a lot! The Old South Meeting House is the "Sanctuary of Freedom," for there
it was prayed for and blessed. And of course Independence was born in the Old State House.
I wonder if anything half as epoch-making will ever come to pass under the great gold dome
of the new one? It's very fine, but it can never be quite so thrilling, I think. And it wasn't
built where the pillory and scaffold used to stand! Jack would see the Bunker Hill Monument,
too, though I think monuments, even the finest, seem to chill your glorious visions of what
really happened on the spot.

Jack, and Pat, and Peter, and I then made a secret pact that we'd devote part of to-morrow
to Hawthorne's Boston; that we'd pretend to find the house of "The Blythedale Romance" in Tremont
Street; that we'd poke about for the lost site of Hester Prynne's lonely hut on the Back Bay
(huts there are neither cheap nor lonely now), and search for various other story landmarks.
With this happy prospect before us, and having slyly shaken off all other companions, we went
unsuspectingly back to the hotel, not dreaming of a guet-apens, as the French so expressively say.

Peter doesn't live at our hotel, not being able to afford gorgeousness. Marble-walled, gilded-ceilinged
rotundas and restaurants are not for humble secretaries, alas, even if they do look like banished
princes! We invited him, however (also Pat), to have tea with us in our own sitting-room, and
he accepted.

If we could, we should have sneaked in; but the magnificent entrance-hall of our palatial hotel
is not adapted to sneaking purposes. I'll be hanged if there's a single trapdoor under a conveniently
placed Persian rug, or so much as a secret sliding panel, unless you count the elevators as
such! However, we were doing our best to look invisible en masse, when up sprang Edward Caspian
and crossed our path as we ought to have expected the villain of the piece to do.

He was not alone. With him was a man, not young, yet not looking middle-aged. He had a head
rather like Shakespeare's, and eyes like aquamarines with a light burning behind them.

"Jove!" I heard the Stormy Petrel mutter. "Camera-eyed Dick!"

I knew instantly that Caspian had been as good as his word, and had sent for a detective. The
name "Camera-eyed Dick" was too terribly expressive, and so was the way Peter pronounced it,
even though he spoke under his breath--to himself, not to me. I felt that here was a man with
a fearsome specialty--a man called "camera-eyed," because his eyes photographed on his brain
stuff a permanent picture of every face he saw. And Caspian had brought him here, no doubt
at large expense, to recognize the face of Peter Storm, alias Some One Else.

Oh, it was an awful moment, and made worse because I felt this stroke was partly our fault.
If we hadn't done everything we could to aggravate Caspian and make him more jealous than ever
of Storm, just as his jealousy had been simmering down, probably he wouldn't have bothered
to carry out his old threat. I thought I should faint, I was so frightened for Peter, and so
sick at the idea of having him arrested or something.

"Is there anything I can do?" I stammered out, before I could stop myself from making a bad
faux pas and showing that I suspected his danger.

Peter (he and I were walking ahead, Jack and Patsey behind) didn't make the faintest pretense
of not understanding. He gave me a glance--I wasn't sure whether it was just bold or whether
there was a sense of drama in it--and said in a quiet voice: "No, thank you; nothing at all."

The one way of escaping the encounter would have been to run for it, which would, of course,
only have made matters worse; so we marched straight on into the jaws of detection. I would
have given much to know whether Jack and Pat had heard Peter's exclamation, and if they guessed
in the least what a scene we might be in for. (No, not a scene! I couldn't, even then, associate
Peter with a "scene" in public; despite his temper, he is always so cool in every emergency,
and has such a peculiar way of carrying things off!)

Much as I wanted to know, however, I dared not turn. Does a mouse turn to the mice behind it
and say, "Here is Mr. Camera-eyed Cat?" No! We walked along, my knees feeling like pats of
butter, and presently Ed Caspian and his companion blocked our way, filling the whole horizon.
"I want to introduce my friend Mr. Moyle, Mrs. Winston," said Ed. "And Mr. Moyle, this is Mr.
Peter Storm."

Beads of perspiration came out on my nose, which Aunt Mary always used to tell me was most
unladylike and ought never to happen. My heart and I just stood still together!

Murmuring something more like a hiccup than a "How do you do?" I saw Peter use his eyes like
grappling irons on the camera-eyes of Mr. Moyle. Then his magnetism, like a band of pirates,
swarmed aboard of the other's mentality. He put out his hand and shook the hand of the man,
whether Camera eyed Dick wished to shake hands or not, and with that shake, the lamp seemed
suddenly to be snatched away from behind the aquamarines.

"How do you do, Mr. Moyle? Pleased to meet you," Peter said slowly.

"Pleased to meet you," echoed Mr. Moyle. His Shakespearean forehead had turned red, and there
was a slight gasp in his voice, a tone sliding up instead of down. His queer eyes (rather bald-looking
because his light lashes curl right up and away from them, leaving them very wide open) turned
off their lights, as I said. But though they were vacant compared to what they had been when
professionally on the alert, they had a curious effect as if they would burst if he couldn't
laugh. This may have been produced by the lashes turning up so much. I couldn't make it out
at all, anyhow. And the whole affair is past my making out. Now, what should you say Peter
did to quell Camera-eyed Dick? Was it the look, or was it the way he shook hands?

For he was quelled. There's no doubt--or very little doubt--about that. He was friendly with
Peter Storm. He and Peter and Caspian talked together, and it was Camera-eyes who went away
first. Ed was ready to cry, I'm sure.

I asked Jack afterward (of course I breathed not a word to Pat), and he said that she and he
had guessed nothing of what was going on under the surface of the introduction. They hadn't
heard Peter's give-away words; and without that clue there was no reason to suspect.

I shan't sleep to-night because of that "misunderstood virtue" of mine. In other words, Curiosity
is gnawing my vitals.

           Your modern Pandora, alias

                                                                  MOLLY.

XXIII

PETER STORM TO JAMES STRICKLAND

                                                               Boston.

DEAR STRICKLAND:

Caspian has "let loose the dogs of war" on me, or, rather, the first dog is loose. There will
no doubt be others yapping on my track. You'll grin when I tell you the first of the breed
was your old henchman, Camera-eyed Dick!

Hotel halls seem to be fatal to me lately. I shall get jumpy going into one. Caspian was lying
in wait for me to appear with Miss Moore and the Winstons, we having "lost" the others and
gone for a walk. Camera-eyes was with him, and I thought it was touch and go for me. However,
I turned the tables by doing the camera-eye act myself. Also, I gave Dick's hand a friendly
grip. You remember that he's a Mason? Going away, he contrived to palm me a card with a scrawled
address: a small hotel where he was spending the night.

Late in the evening I walked round there, taking it for granted that Dick would be in, and
that he had recognized me with certainty despite the lapse of time. I counted on his not giving
me away to his employer, so I didn't hurry to pay my respects. And I hadn't trusted the old
chap in vain. He was loyal to Caspian, so far as not betraying any instructions he may have
had; but he did not mind admitting that he'd come from New York to Boston on receipt of a telegram.
I felt I owed him the reward of an explanation, so gave a somewhat garbled one, in which Dick
was intensely interested. He confessed that he was "flabbergasted" at sight of "the gentleman
he'd come to be introduced to" (me) and for once was disinclined to believe his eyes. He promised
silence, refused a reward, as near the V.C. as I'm able to bestow, and I told him to call on
you. You're sure to hear from him soon.

This is the second narrow escape I've had within a week. I oughtn't to take these risks till
I'm ready to face the consequences, whatever they may be. But I'd do more to be in sight of
Patricia Moore's profile which is about all I see of her in the car these days when (in every
sense of the word) I'm obliged to take "a back seat." Do, for heaven's sake, finish up your
end of the business and give me a free hand, since you yourself say I may in honour take it.
I probably should take it even if you said the opposite--that I tell you frankly, as I believe
I've told you before. But it's good to have your backing.

I've been to Plymouth to-day, thanks to a chap I've hired to do my work for me, and have returned
to Boston, which we shall leave to-morrow for good and all. Caspian had an accident just before
starting time--had been out in a taxi on a hurried errand to some shop, and the chauffeur,
trying to be helpful, banged the door with C.'s finger in it. The finger was in a glove, or
the hurt would have been more serious, but even as it was, when he tried to take the wheel
of the G.-G. he found the pain unbearable. I was called--like a male Cinderella--from the ashes
(those of a cigarette) and ordered to drive. In an instant the secretary had become the chauffeur.
I can do these fairy godmother trick-acts like lightning; and as Miss Moore didn't think it
necessary to change her seat, I knew that Fate was going, anyhow, to give me one good day.

I had never been by road from Boston to Plymouth, and as I'd not expected to drive, I hadn't
looked up the route. Caspian probably had, but I didn't want help from him, and I determined
to die rather than look at a map. You, a Harvard man, no doubt know the way well, though a
motor car was a rare if not unknown species of animal when you were an undergrad.

In the beginning it was easy enough. We simply went out of Boston along the road by which we'd
come in: past the Arnold Arboretum of which you Harvard fellows are so proud; Forest Hill,
parklike Morton Street, and across the Neponset River, where my dear little seat-mate (who
couldn't have guessed how I felt to be by her side again) was enraptured with the view of Boston
Harbour. She was gayer than I had seen her since that moonlight night when I came to myself--too
late, as it turned out; yet I don't feel somehow that it's irrevocably too late. I can't! It
was good to hear her laugh again. "Do look," she said, "at the funny little porches on the
funny little houses! They put hammocks on ones that are so narrow people have to fall off the
porch when they want to get out! Yet see how happy the women look! They must have husbands
they love."

Caspian heard, and leaned forward to suppress her. "Patricia, I wouldn't talk so much to the
chauffeur if I were you, while he's driving. He doesn't know the way, and he'd better give
his attention to the sign-posts."

Of course I could say nothing. But I reminded myself that snubs generally come home to roost.
I hoped he'd "get his," as you say, and I hadn't long to wait before poetical justice fell.
The man kept up a running fire of information, which he had doubtless culled from a guide-book
to impress his fiancée, having no personal interest in history except that it has led up to
him. The landscape left him cold; the seas of wild blue chicory and forget-me-not didn't suggest
to him the colour of a certain girl's eyes as it did to another chap who had no right to make
the comparison. He didn't care for the "Golden Wedding House," or any of the other pretty old
houses so beautifully fitted to the pretty old ladies rocking on their "piazzas" under the
shade of giant trees. The facts with which he had primed himself, like pocketsful of dry cracknels,
were such as "Here" (at East Milton) "was built the first railway in the country. It was horse
drawn, and over it was carried" (I think he used the word "transported," which proved the guide-book)
"stone from the quarries of Quincy to construct the Bunker Hill Monument." "Here" (at Quincy)
"in the middle of the city stands the Stone Temple where are buried the two Presidents, John
Adams and John Quincy Adams."

It was then that the snub flew home, with a strong impetus from the exasperated Pat.

"I don't want to know about Bunker Hill Monument being built," she turned round to snap. "I
want to think it built itself. And I don't want to know where Presidents are buried. I only
want to know where they had their golden weddings, and where they lived happily. Besides, it
gives me a crick in my neck to be always listening to some one behind. If I can't talk to Mr.
Stor-r-rm for fear of upsetting him, I won't talk to anybody, please!"

There was one in the eye for Caspian; and it gave me my opportunity to murmur with mere perfunctory
politeness (?) that it didn't "upset" me in the least to talk or be talked to while I "chauffed."

After that we did converse a little, about Captain John Smith and Miles Standish, without Caspian
venturing to butt in; but I must say he got revenge through my losing myself in Hingham. You
remember that wonderful street of lawns and trees with a perfect specimen of an old church?
I believe it's the oldest church, still in use, in the United States, but I dared not state
this lest C. should seize the chance to snap me up and say I was mistaken. Well, anyhow, I
shared so recklessly in Pat's admiration of the said church and the quaint, pleasant houses
with flag-staffs sticking out over their doors, that I fulfilled Caspian's prophecy and got
lost. The first thing I knew we were bumping over an appalling road, and had to turn back.

"I told you so!" I heard C. muttering like distant thunder, and asked him mildly if he preferred
to take the wheel; but his finger was even more painful than his temper. I felt his glare like
a gimlet in the back; but Pat more loudly than needful expressed her delight in seeing Hingham
a second time. "It is exactly like Cranford," she said. "New England seems to be full of Cranfords,
but Hingham is the most Cranfordy of all. And I don't believe even the Old England Cranford
could have such elms in such a wonderful street. They are like tall, transparent green wine
glasses set for a dinner party of Titans."

"You get these exaggerated ideas from Mrs. Winston," came another mutter from behind, but no
reply was vouchsafed. Speaking of Mrs. Winston, I'd happened to hear her talking with her husband
last night, about the day's run to Plymouth, and a word here and there had caught my attention.
I remembered that a "sky pilot" named Hobart had come from Hingham in England, and somehow
got the new place named after the old. I remembered, too, a romantic story they spoke of: the
hiding of "The Nameless Nobleman" between the floors of a South Hingham house, and his marrying
the girl who saved him, Molly Wilder. (Jack Winston thinks that all the nicest women since
the Christian era have been named Mary.) I hurried to tell Pat about these things, and a few
others which I either recalled or made up on the spot. While I talked, in defiance of orders,
I somehow contrived to get onto a splendid road to Cohasset: woods for miles and miles; and
an idea came into my head--which I passed on--that Abraham Lincoln's ancestors flourished in
this region. So, to Scituate, though over a wrong road again (Pat called it "a dear little
wrong road"), to Marshfield, where Daniel Webster died and was laid to rest. On the way we
"guessed" that a detestable yellow house we saw, with a well and a bucket, were the house,
well and bucket of Samuel Woodworth himself, the "Old Oaken Bucket" man. Caspian was sure it
wasn't the house, and this seemed to make the darling Pat equally sure it was. (Don't you think
from what I tell you that the signs and omens are good?)

I dared to believe that the girl wasn't sorry to have me beside her again. Once in a while
I threw a glance at her face as we spun over the perfect road through woods which might never
have been touched by the hand of man, and there was a rapt look on it, the sweetest look you
ever saw--sweeter than you ever saw, because you haven't seen her yet. But you will--you will!--when
you've finished your work and I've finished mine.

Fortunately for me I have a good memory, and luckily I'd kept my ears open while Molly and
Jack Winston discussed the route, for I know nothing of this country, which, by the way, I
find so beautiful. I reproach myself for thinking too little of my own land, and seeking adventure
in others. In Duxbury, you know probably, Miles Standish and John Alden both had houses. John's
second house is still standing, and Pat insisted on stopping to see it; though I take courage
from her confession that she likes the bold rough Standish best. Queer to remember, in a sleepy
little place like Duxbury, that a man who chose to build there had in his mind memories of
fierce, wild fighting against the Duke of Alva!

Past a nice-smelling tarry rope factory we sailed into Plymouth and joined forces with the
other cars. It's a fine entrance into the old Pilgrim town, isn't it? Bowers of trees, and
some of the noblest elms on earth.

"How do things go?" Molly Winston whispered to me, when we had all crowded hungrily into that
jolly old-fashioned yellow-painted hotel you're sure to remember, even though you didn't lunch
in it with a Patricia Moore.

I knew what she meant, because we three (she, her husband, and I) started out with a secret
pact against the firm of Caspian and Shuster. And it gave me a good warm feeling to be asked
the question, because the fair Molly hasn't been quite as gracious since I voluntarily fell
out of ranks at Boston. I hope I shall be able to explain that defection to her some day. Meanwhile,
I was glad of a sign of trust and friendship, and replied that I had an idea "things" were
looking up for us. "The little lady is ready to bite his head off," I added. Molly shuddered.
"He uses the wrong sort of brilliantine," she mentioned. "But even honey and flowers wouldn't
make it a pleasant act."

While Caspian (I could almost have pitied him) saw a doctor about his damaged digit, the rest
of us, even my reluctant employeress, wandered about looking at the ancient landmarks and watermarks
we pretended to have come to see. Perhaps some of us really had come for the purpose--Jack
Winston, for instance, who's as keen as mustard on linking New World with Old World history.
But, then, he doesn't have to make excuses to snatch a little of his best girl's society, as
I, Tom, Dick, and Harry do. As for Moore, it's the opposite. He spends his time making excuses
to get away from his fair lady; and most of those excuses are found in the society of Another!
I could almost pity Mrs. Shuster, too, she is so ingenuously miserable. But I harden my heart.
Neither of the pair is worthy of a pang. And few neglected loveresses have senators to fall
back upon. (She's done that literally, once or twice, and heavily, because she's a champion
stumbler.)

None of us feel drawn toward monuments, though we may approve of them on principle, but if
ever a monument was called for, at any place in the world, that place is Plymouth. All the
same, I'm not sure, if I'd had a voice in the matter, that I shouldn't have let the Rock, with
its date, tell the story in its own simple way without any further emphasis. What with that,
and the welcoming beauty of the Harbour which no Pilgrim with his eyes open could resist, and
the Museum, and the ancient houses, I think Plymouth could have held her own.

Somehow or other that witch of a Molly Winston contrived to gather the clan together round
her and Jack, and give me a chance to play guide to Pat. To be sure, Mrs. Shuster, loyal to
her absent partner, tried to form a hollow square around us. But she couldn't spare more than
half an eye from Larry; and half one of Mrs. Shuster's eyes isn't dangerous.

There are quite a lot of things to be "done" in Plymouth, you know, and if they are being done
in couples or trios you can always go and gaze at the old Common House while the others are
revering Forefathers' Rock. You can bow and smile as you meet them hurrying to the Museum,
and search industriously for the Town Brook which decided the Pilgrims to settle at Plymouth.
You can make your companion look up into your eyes by telling her what you know or pretend
to know about Priscilla, and pretend that the Puritan maid gathered cowslips for her cowslip
wine on the shores of the said "very sweet brook." This, and more chat of the same order, will
suffice to hold the dear one's attention until you are pretty sure that if you say, "Shall
we walk along to Pilgrim Hall and see the relics?" you and she will be astonished to meet the
rest of the party just coming away.

Apropos of Pilgrim Hall, my only failure was there. We did meet the party issuing from the
Doric doorway. I'd managed that all right, but Mrs. Shuster turned on the threshold, kindly
volunteering to remain and point out objects best worth seeing. I wished her in Halifax, or
almost any other place which could be catalogued under the same letter, but short of telling
her to go there, I saw no escape.

Whether it was an infliction for Pat or not, I couldn't be sure. I never knew much or wanted
to know much, until just lately, about the workings of girls' minds. But I will tell you what
she did: she said, "Oh, that is so good of you, Mrs. Shuster! Do come with us. It's nice to
have some one really interested to go about with. Now Larry, much as I love him, is a worry
in a place like this. He and Idonia will just go comfortably back to the hotel and have tea
in some nice nook and wait for you, so we shall know where to find them much better than if
they loved sight-seeing as the others do!"

There are lilies and lilies. This Lily of ours looked suddenly like a tiger lily, rather a
faded one, badly in need of water, as Pat took hold of her arm and affectionately pulled her
into the marble vestibule. She did not break away with a roar and a bound, as I half expected
her to do, but meekly let the cruel child lead her on. I knew then, however, that it was a
question only of moments. You've seen a cat, caught up against its will into a lap, feign contentment,
while with muscles braced it waits its opportunity to take the lap unawares and spring. That
is about what happened with Mrs. Shuster. She pointed us out a painting of the "Mayflower on
Her First Morning at Sea," all couleur de rose; she indicated the chairs of Elder Brewster
and Governor Carroll which were wobbling about on the Mayflower that very morning no doubt;
and having brought us to a stand before the Damascus blade of Miles Standish, she considered
her duty done.

"I'm tireder than I thought I was," she said. "I believe I shall have to go back to the hotel
myself, and rest a bit before we start for Boston. I wouldn't stay long here if I were you.
If Mr. Storm buys a guide-book at the hotel, or some postcards, you'll have pictures of everything
without standing on your feet."

Pat replied meekly that she would return to the hotel the minute she felt tired, but did want
to see John Adams' Bible and a few things like that. Mrs. Shuster mustn't at all mind leaving her.

Mrs. Shuster did mind, but she went nevertheless. I longed to catch Pat's eye, and smile; but
she didn't appear to have a smile in her. Such innocent gravity you never saw, and when Mrs.
S. had left us, the girl made no reference to the episode.

I did buy some picture postcards, but not until we'd seen everything they represented. I bought
also, at the same shop, a pretty little box containing three green candles made of bayberry
wax. Both cards and candles I offered to Miss Moore, and she accepted them, sniffing with childlike
ecstasy at the candles, which are supposed to give forth, in burning, the perfume which the
bayberries pour out in the heat of the sun. Afterward I was told by Molly Winston the sentimental
superstition about bayberry candles. I wonder if Miss Moore knew it, and if she thought I knew.

I haven't, as you see, given up hope that the forced association of this motor trip may make
the child realize how impossible for her would be a permanent association with that worm C.
If she breaks her engagement before anything happens, so much the better; but the thing, in
one form or other, will now have to happen, of course.

A letter from you could reach me at Bretton Woods, and I should be glad to hear there just
when you think affairs might be settled.

I'm hideously impatient, but I'm not unhappy.

             Yours as ever, and a little more,

                                                                 P. S.

We came back from Plymouth to-night, along the short road, Caspian patched up but sulky as
an owl. Luckily I didn't lose the way once.

XXIV

EDWARD CASPIAN TO RICHARD MOYLE, KNOWN PROFESSIONALLY AS "CAMERA-EYED DICK"

                                           Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

DEAR MR. MOYLE:

The more I think of it, the more I feel that you are keeping back something from me. You say
that the face of this man Storm "recalls nothing and nobody" to you. I must accept your word.
Yet I got the impression that at least he reminded you of some one. I was watching your face
at the moment you met.

Since you left me, refusing to interest yourself further in the affair, I have thought of it
unceasingly. A sudden and extremely interesting idea has come into my head. I cannot afford
to waste it, though without the aid of a competent detective like yourself I may not be able
to put it to good use. If you will not change your mind and take up the matter again on new
lines, I shall be glad if you can send me a smart man from your agency, a person in whose discretion
as well as intelligence you have implicit confidence.

Kindly wire me to the post-office, Ogunquit, Me.

                         Yours truly,

                                                            E. CASPIAN.

(Telegram from Richard Moyle to Edward Caspian, Post-office, Ogunquit, Maine):

Sorry have no one can recommend for job mentioned. Nothing in it. Advise you leave it alone.

(Richard Moyle to Peter Storm, Ogunquit, Maine. Try all hotels):

Excuse liberty, but look out for E. C. May make you trouble.

(Peter Storm to Richard Moyle, at New York):

Many thanks. Am looking out.

                                                                P. S.

XXV

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                               Wenham.

MERCÉDES DEAR:

My first thought as I waked yesterday morning was Aunt Mary. I thought of her in my bath--a
cold porcelain bath, rapidly filling up with hot water, and giving me rather the feeling of
eating an ice with hot chocolate sauce. I thought of Aunt M. with breakfast and choked her
down with my coffee. When we had left our happy home--the Boston hotel--the "chug chug" of
our motor sang the song which the West Point cadets have made up for "church call."

    "You've got to go, whether you want to or not!
    You've got to go, so you'd better turn out!
    Oh, h--ades!"

But after a while the road was so pretty that I succeeded in forgetting her now and then, as
you might forget you were on the way to the dentist's when you passed splendid jewellery and
hat shops.

We were also on the way to Marblehead and Salem; Aunt Mary wasn't till afterward.

Marblehead, with all its romance of ancient days, is only about sixteen miles from Boston as
the automobile flies, but you pass a good many sweet things first. We went through Somerville,
got lost there, and were guided in every direction but the right one by a plague of boys not
much bigger than the "dimes" they didn't earn. Jack simply won't look at maps when in the car,
or inquire; expects to find his way by instinct, and somehow generally does. (Are all men like
that?) Crossed the Mystic River, and got on to the velvet surface of the Revere Beach Parkway.
But Chelsea came before the Beach: charming old Chelsea, which probably, in its heart, thinks
Boston its suburb, and prides itself on almost a century and a half of aristocratic peace since
the old fighting days when Israel Putnam won his commission as Major-General there.

There couldn't be a greater contrast than between Chelsea and Revere Beach. It's a good thing
that miles of parklike road--fought over once by Independents and British--lie between, or
they could never stand each other, those two! Jack and I ought to have come to Revere Beach
when we were little boy and girl, for, oh, the joy of it for children! What price the Dragon
Gorge, the mountain railway more like the Alps than the Alps are like themselves, the theatres,
the shops of every kind, the cottages which are nests for birds rather than commonplace, human
habitations?

Opposite, Nahant sat looking delightful and alluring, but we went on to Lynn--Lynn, unattractive
at first, and pretty when we got better acquainted, like some of the nicest women I know. It's
a great place now for shoes, and was once a great place for pilgrims. What a pity the former
are too late for the latter! The Pilgrims must have needed the shoes badly. They could have
walked along the Old Pilgrim Road to Swampscott if their feet were equal to it. And perhaps
they forgot their feet, as I forgot Aunt Mary, for it is--and must then have been--a lovely road.

Hawthorne used to walk to Swampscott, too, as well as to Marblehead, but he came the other
way, from Salem. Do you remember Swampscott was where he found pink and white Susan, who gave
him the sugar heart? That was pink, too, with a touch of white perhaps. She sounds so delightful
as the "Mermaid!" I'm glad Hawthorne kept the heart for years, and then instead of throwing
it away ate it--gave it honourable burial, so to speak--which shows that you can have your
heart and eat it, too! (I must, by the by, make a parable of this for Pat, who is eating hers,
though she certainly has not got it. She has given it to some one else, though I fancy she
thinks she has merely mislaid it.) In apropos of hearts, they make dories in Swampscott; and
it's not swampy one bit!

Of course I quoted Whittier's "Skipper Ireson's Ride" to Jack, coming toward Marblehead. It
was "up to me" to show my British husband that I, too, had learned things at people's knees.

I wasn't certain I got it just right, but did my best to put a confident ring into my voice,
which is half the battle when you're not sure of yourself. What a blow, therefore, to be told
that in truth and in deed the women of Marblehead had nothing to do with the job! Jack says
the men did it. And worse still, Captain Ireson was supposed to have been a victim rather than
a villain, because his sailors mutinied and refused to let him go to the rescue of the sinking
ship. I hate having my childish beliefs disturbed! It tears me all up by the roots, and gives
me a pain in my spirit's toes.

No, no, Whittier, surely you wouldn't say so now if you could see steamboats and trains pouring
forth multitudes, and thousands and tens of thousands of motor cars stuffed full of people
from all over the world drawn to New England because of its never, never lost halo of romance!

Did I tell you just now that we were coming toward Marblehead? Well, one can do that, and not
get to Marblehead. You can keep on seeing Marblehead and expecting to arrive, while in reality
you are going all around "Robin Hood's barn." By the way, I never saw a barn exciting enough
to belong to Robin Hood till I came with Jack on this tour through New England. Here, barns
are as grand as churches, and very much like them, steeples and all.

A lot of things happened to us on the way to will o' the wisp Marblehead--old Marblehead, I
mean, for new Marblehead is just a very gay and jolly summer resort, such as I fancy little
Susan would, in her pink sugar heart, have loved. We kept on seeing the old town to our left,
across a harbour as full of white yachts and sailboats as a New England pond is of water lilies.
Jack was loving everything, and utterly oblivious that beyond Salem lay Aunt Mary-ville. His
face was perfectly ecstatic as we crossed a river--Whittier's beloved Merrimac--on an ancient
covered wooden bridge. He said the sound of the tires on the slightly loose boards was better
music than the followers of Richard Strauss could make from the "noises of life." I do love
those covered bridges, don't you? They're so richly brown, some of them, that while one slowly
travels along under the roof, it's like looking at the sun through a piece of cider-brown glass.
Or if they're not brown, they're a soft, velvet gray--gray as shadows at full moon, gray as
the light in dreams.

I hardly know how, eventually, we did get into old Marblehead, for Jack and I were both so
infatuated with the way we lost sight now and then of the goal. Imagine a road lined on either
side with apple trees. If you haven't seen these, you have never seen such orchards in your
life, my Mercédes! If there was anything as good in Eden, no wonder Eve ate that apple. I shouldn't
wonder if she fixed her eye on it when it was still a bud.

And then, behind the orchards, there were hills, playgrounds for baby cedars. Everything contrived
to look at least two hundred years old (except the blossoms and the motor cars), and even the
pigeons had such an air of colonial serenity that they simply refused to stir for a new-fangled
thing like an automobile. They sat still, pretending not to see us, and never changed their
expressions!

At last we did get into old Marblehead, and I'm so happy to tell you it was exactly like finding
our way round the corner in a picture. You know that thrilling corner in pictures, leading
somewhere you are dying to see and never can? Well, now I have seen it. It's Marblehead. Round
the corner of the front of the picture where the new, smart things are, we cleverly slipped
in. And there was the background running up the canvas, all over funny labyrinths of streets
generally leading nowhere, or, if anywhere, back to the same garden we'd just passed, a darling
garden boiling over with grass pinks, cabbage roses, sweet williams, and bleeding hearts. Each
house was just a little quainter than the other, and Jack and I thought we were going to like
Marblehead better than any that ever lived, until--we came to Salem, after Manchester and Magnolia.
Then--we weren't precisely being untrue to Marblehead. No, never that! But Salem--perhaps it's
fair after all to keep a larger place in memory-land for the Witch City.

It would have been almost a world tragedy if, when the great fire swept over the town, it hadn't
stopped short of the old part, which is American history incarnate. That "old part" consists
of "old, older, oldest." The oldest houses of all, built about 1635, are very, very simple,
as if the Puritans had prayed over them to be delivered from temptation and craving for beauty.
Then, next are the ones not quite so old, when people began to be rich and see that Beauty
wasn't after all the unpardonable sin. These houses of the eighteenth century look as if architects
might have been commissioned to come from the Old World to build them, bringing traditions
of gracious decoration for outside and in. Next, there are the far grander and more stately
mansions which grew up after the Revolution, when the good folk of New England knew that their
land and their fortunes would be theirs forever, undisputed. Salem had grown into an important
place then. Merchants and shipowners had plenty of money to spend. They spent it well, too,
for they made their dwellings very beautiful, so beautiful that the witch hunters and Quaker
persecutors of the past would have been shocked to the bottom of those hollow places they called
their hearts.

What a good thing it is that there wasn't much brick to be had when the first old colonial
houses were a-building! To be sure, some of the very best in Salem and Boston and other towns
are of brick; but brick had to come in ships from old England, so only those persons with the
most money and possibly the most cultivated taste could use it. Consequently the characteristic
houses of New England and its borders--the white and yellow houses we think of when we say
"New England"--were made of wood; and they are unique in the world.

They say that the oldest buildings of Salem--the Gothic, steep-roofed ones--were meant as copies
of gabled cottages on the old home side of the water. But if they were, they were as far off
the originals as a child's drawing on a slate is far from a steel engraving; and Jack and I
are glad, because these dear things are so ingenuously and deliciously American that they could
exist nowhere except on this side.

I was only too glad to stay in Salem as long as possible, because it put off Aunt Mary and
Wenham, where Jack and I had promised to stay all night, letting the others go on to wait for
us at Newburyport. Jack had a map (he doesn't mind having maps of towns, or looking at road
maps when in towns), and we took a regular Hawthorne itinerary. We began at the house in Union
Street where he was born--a rather pathetic, forlorn house, like the birthplaces of most geniuses;
then the next, where the family lived till they moved to Raymond, in sight of the White Mountains;
and so on, following to the custom-house where the bored genius weighed and gauged, and not
missing a single landmark. All are picturesque to the imagination, but the landmark most picturesque
to the eye is of course "The House of Seven Gables," and that, some of those dreadful people
who dispute everything nice say, isn't what it pretends to be.

As if such an adorable and perfectly sincere and high-souled looking house would pretend anything!
Should I hear such heresy uttered I would stop my ears, but coming on it in print was simple,
because all I had to do was to snap the book shut with a bang. It is the dearest, kindest little
gray house, which all new houses, no matter how big and distinguished, would be proud to have
for their grandmother!

Hawthorne's cousin, Miss Ingersoll, whom he called the "Duchess," lived in the old Turner Street
house, and it had had seven gables before his day. It's perfectly legitimate to put them back,
and even a duty, which has been exquisitely carried out. I should like to kiss the hand of
the lady who honoured Hawthorne's beautiful memory by making the house as dear as that memory
itself. I suppose it was she who had the brilliant idea of using for a front door an old nailed
oak one found in the attic (there must be a lovely attic!), putting the quaint oven of ancient
times into the kitchen, and retrieving from oblivion the "Duchess's" toasting fork with which
she used to make toast for Hawthorne. There's a creepy story about the way he thought of the
murder, from seeing, through a tiny window of greenish glass, a cousin of his fast asleep and
looking as if dead. But there's a story just as fascinating about every house in Salem, connected
with Hawthorne. Romantic and interesting things followed him about in his life, like tame dogs,
though he didn't always realize at the moment that they were romantic or interesting. Sometimes
he thought only that they were tame.

All over the place you feel the thrill of witches and the torturing of Quakers. That's partly
thanks to Longfellow, and Whittier, of course, but mostly from the influence which such tremendous
happenings leave, I think. It's as if some picture of the past were in the atmosphere, and
now and then, out of a corner of your eye, you caught a glimpse, as you do of the "ghost" of
a rainbow when the rainbow seems to have gone.

The "Witch House," where Judge Corwin lived at the time of the persecution, is almost hidden
away now, as if it were trying to escape from something, and at last brought to bay like a
very small, fierce animal. Even now I can hardly bear to think of those days, and all those
poor people suffering through a few naughty, hysterical children. I'm sure the Indian woman
Tituba could haunt me in Salem even if I lived in a perfectly new, perfectly good modern hotel!
I should have tried the experiment, I think, if it hadn't been for Aunt Mary being so nearby,
at Wenham.

Well, quite late in the afternoon (I forgot to tell you we lunched, but you may take that for
granted, with so many men in the party) we said good-bye to Salem. We said other things, too,
all in praise of it; and Jack felt particularly reverential because Salem sent the first ships
from America to Indian and Russian ports. Wasn't it sporting when you think of what ships were
then? But these seafaring men of the New England coast were like the men of Devon, the "bravest
of the brave."

Aunt Mary had plumped heavily down on my heart again, before we got to Beverly, and this time
I couldn't put her out of my mind though the grandeur of the north coast was in my eyes. Oliver
Wendell Holmes lived in Beverly and loved it, but then he had no Aunt Mary in the neighbourhood.

Did you ever read what Thackeray said about Wenham Lake Ice? It seems every London house of
any pretension had it on its dinner table, but I don't think it travels so far in these days
of artificial ice. The lake's still there, anyhow, in a hollow to the left of the road as you
go, gleaming blue and mysterious as watching eyes between the dark trunks of a pine forest.
Then, after that lake, there was no more excuse for lingering, unless at the monument. We came
into Wenham. Jack was trying to look brave.

"In a few minutes now," said he, with galvanized cheerfulness, "we shall be having tea with
your Aunt Mary."

At that instant (we had purposely dropped back to bring up the rear of the procession after
Salem, letting even the lumbering Hippopotamus bumble on ahead) we beheld all our family of
cars drawn up under some skyscraping elms, in front of the most delectable tea-house you ever
met in your life. The Hippo was in front of a very fine old white church, with "I am one of
the pillars of New England" written in every line of it; but it was certainly the tea-house
which had arrested its career.

*

There was a large green and white striped umbrella or two protecting some little tables, and
grouped round those little tables were our friends.

"I'm hanged if we'll be having tea with my Aunt Mary!" said I, with that firm-jawed look Jack
has got to know and fear as characteristic of the American wife at bay.

So we had tea there, under elms so generously deep and thick that large populations of robins
live in them without ever having seen each other's faces. They were, to the tree world, what
Blenheim is in castle world. People can come and live there for years, they say, without the
duke ever knowing they've arrived. Well, so could whole families of birds live in these elms
without the leading robin hearing an alien chirp.

We drowned our sorrows in tea and cream, and buried our sinister premonitions in scones. Also
cakes. A wonderful woman had made them--a lady-woman. She will be the heroine of my great American
novel, if I ever write one. I hope to goodness she won't be gone from Wenham before it's finished
and I can send her a presentation copy! Everything was green and white in the tea-house, except
the dear little things to be sold there: weather-cocks, and door-stops, and old china. We bought
specimens of these as sops to Cerberus--I mean, as presents for Aunt Mary--and when there was
no longer a pretext for lingering we crept reluctantly away with the spoils.

It was absolutely no comfort to me, as we crawled through the pretty square, and approached
"Miss Keddison's mansion" (only too easy to find) that Wenham would be a lovely place to spend
not only one but many nights in. There, on a colonial porch, behind colonial pillars, in a
colonial rocking-chair, sat Aunt Mary on the watch. She looked not only colonial but Doric!

We had got ahead of the others by this time, and my aunt, rising from her chair, with a gesture
stopped the whole procession. I don't know whether she meant to do this or not, but no one
would have dared pass, any more than if she had been a railway barrier with "Stop! Look! Listen!"
painted on her high white forehead.

We slowed down: the Grayles-Grice, the Wilmot, the Hippo, and our Hiawatha, as we have lately
named our car.

Aunt Mary descended the steps and came to the gate. Jack jumped out, forgetting he was lame,
and nearly fell. I screamed. Every one scrambled or leaped or slid to the rescue; and that
was the way in which Providence arranged for Peter Storm and Pat Moore and Larry, to say nothing
of those who mattered less, to become Aunt Mary's guests. Providence is not too important a
word, as you will see when I tell you as much as I'm allowed to tell, about--what came of the
visit.

Aunt Mary has many virtues. They stick out all over her like pins, but there are some which
aren't uncomfortably sharp. Her hospitality, for instance. This house of hers at Wenham isn't
one of the prettiest in the place, but it is white and dignified, and the over-arching trees
give it charm. Aunt Mary is proud of it, and I think she was really pleased to welcome the
crowd. Besides, when she was in New York on business, cutting coupons or something, Jack and
I talked to her about Larry and Pat. She was very interested, and said she had been taken to
Kidd's Pines to a garden party, some fifteen years ago, by Cousin John Randolph Payton, who
left me Awepesha, you know. She thought that she still had some snapshots of the garden which
she had taken herself that afternoon. In those days, it seemed, she had threatened to develop
a craze for photography, but had found that it "interfered too seriously with her more intellectual
pursuits." However, she used to paste her trophies in scrapbooks, and she said that when she
got home from New York she would look up the volume of that date. It ought to be in the attic,
though she had not seen it for a number of years.

Jack and I thought she would forget about this, and we had indeed forgotten it ourselves when
we arrived at Wenham. Aunt Mary, however, had not. She greeted Larry warmly (for her) and assured
him that, if her niece had kept her informed of the route, she would have written or telegraphed
asking the whole party to tea. Not knowing our whereabouts, she could not do this, but was
delighted to find the cars stopping at her door, and hoped that their occupants would all take
tea with her.

Every one was simply stuffed with scones and chocolate cake, but such was the look in Aunt
Mary's eye that none dared confess the tea-house debauch. Her invitation was accepted, and,
eighteen strong, we filed into her parlour. Luckily it's as big as a good-sized country schoolroom,
and there's a mid-Victorian "suite" consisting of two sofas, a settee, a couple of easy chairs
and eight uneasy ones. Aunt Mary is of those worthy women who upholster themselves and dress
their furniture, so everything in her home is rather fussy, lots of antimacassars and tidies
and scarfs and that sort of thing. Besides, she thinks flowers are for gardens, not for houses,
with the exception of some wax ones made by herself when a girl and preserved under glass.
Still, there's such a pet of an old Chinese wall paper, and everything is so exquisitely neat
that the effect isn't so bad as you might suppose.

Aunt Mary has a flair for liking the wrong people, and wronging the right ones, so of course
she took quite a fancy to Ed Caspian, and was somewhat stiff with Peter, whom Mrs. Shuster
introduced as "my secretary, Mr. Storm." However, she was as nice as she could be to Larry,
and asked if I had mentioned her visit to Kidd's Pines. When she heard that I had not, she
was surprised and grieved at my carelessness.

"My niece was always inclined to be forgetful," said she. "I can't think where she inherited
it from. The first thing I did on my return from New York was to look in the attic for my old
photograph scrapbooks. I have a place for everything, and everything in its place, in this
house; but I travel a great deal, and occasionally my servants, with the best intentions, upset
my arrangements. I found several of the little volumes exactly where I expected to lay my hand
on them, but I am very sorry to say the one I wanted was missing. If I had been sure that I
should have the pleasure of seeing you and your daughter, Mr Moore, I would have looked even
more thoroughly, for I'm sure the photographs exist. It was fifteen years ago this summer that
I attended the garden party at Kidd's Pines, with my cousin, Mr. Payton. I met you and Mrs.
Moore for a moment, I remember quite well. You both looked almost too young to be married,
I thought, but your little girl was about four years old. She was not at the party officially"
(Aunt Mary smiled at her own coy wit), "but I met her with a boy much older, who was playing
with her. I took a snapshot of them both together, standing by a swing which was in a retired
part of the grounds."

By this time Larry was bored to extinction, but still charming, as he always is with women,
young or old, pretty or plain. He pretended so pleasantly to be disappointed at the loss of
the book (he loathes looking at photographs) that Aunt Mary was fired to a renewed effort.

"Why, now I come to think of it," said she, "there's another place in the attic where the book
quite well might be. If you will excuse me, I'll go up and try to find it."

Larry hastened to protest that he wouldn't trouble her for the world, but Aunt Mary was firm
in her desire to please, though sorry to desert her guests. As the argument went on, Peter
Storm abruptly got up and handed me a plate of cake. "Heavens, no more!" I murmured in an anguished
whisper. "I feel as if I should never be able to look cake in the face again."

"Don't then, but look me in the face," he mumbled. I did so, surprised. "Please ask to go and
search for that book, and take me with you," I saw, rather than heard, the words formed by
his lips.

Mine not to question why! Mine but to do or die! Instantly I offered, in a honeyed tone, to
save Aunt Mary for her guests, by myself searching the attic. (Dear Dad and I stayed with her
over one melancholy Christmas when I was a kid. We arrived by train, of course, and saw nothing
of the country. As for Wenham itself, it was feet deep in snow, so I saw nothing of that either,
but I did see the attic. It was my refuge and my joy. I worship garrets.) Of this episode I
reminded my aunt, and assured her that, though my last visit had been so long ago, I remembered
the topography of the attic. If she would tell me the place to look, I would guarantee to find
the volume if it existed.

Aunt Mary proceeded at once to mention the date of that Christmas visit, and my age at the
time, so now everybody who can be bothered reckoning up knows just how long I have been twenty-six.
Having made this revelation to those whom it concerned and did not concern, she decided to
accept my offer. I jumped up to go, and at the door, as if on a sudden thought, exclaimed,
"Oh, Mr. Storm, do come along and protect me from garret ghosts."

He came, and we talked of indifferent things on the way up: of the house, and the steepness
of the attic stairs. At the top of the steps, however, he changed his tone. Aunt Mary had mentioned
a certain oak secretary-bookcase with glass doors, standing close to the head of the stairs,
and as I steered for it, along a narrow lane between ancient trunks and packing cases, Peter
said: "Mrs. Winston, I've made up my mind to tell you something, and this is a good place to
do it. When I've told you, you'll understand why I didn't want Miss Keddison to find that book
of photographs, and why I don't even want it to exist in this house."

Then he went on, and told me the most extraordinary and astonishing story. I'd give anything
to pass it on to you; and having got so far, you'll curse me for not going farther! But I had
to promise I wouldn't write or breathe the secret to any one except Jack. So, alas, you must
wait till the embargo is taken off.

Peter wouldn't let me look for the little red volume described by Aunt Mary, because I was
to say to her that I couldn't find it. He it was who opened the drawer of the secretary where
she had thought the book might be, and I heard a rustling of papers for a minute or two. Then
the drawer was shut. I asked no questions, but when we went down to report the failure of my
quest I fancied that the left side of Peter's chest was slightly--very slightly--more prominent
than the right, as if he had something thicker than a handkerchief in his breast pocket.

I am writing this in my bedroom, by lamplight (no gas, no electricity for Aunt Mary), and instead
of hating our visit and nearly perishing, as we expected to do, Jack and I are enchanted that
we came. It evidently was to be, as servants say when they break one of your best cups. Now
we may be able to help (?) along.

                                               Much love.

                                                                  Yours,

                                              MOLLY OF THE GUILTY SECRET.

XXVI

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                        Bretton Woods.

DEAREST GIRL:

I am positively afraid to write you, lest you and Monty think me a Beast for harrowing up your
feelings about Peter Storm and the book of photographs, and Aunt Mary's garret, the way I did,
and then letting you down with a dull thud.

Jack says it was cruelty to animals (he doesn't state what kind) to have told you anything,
as I couldn't tell you all. But I just got going, and couldn't bear to stop till I had to!

We've travelled such a long way now, since Wenham, that I can't describe all the places to
you as I generally do in my letters, and, besides, it might make you even more cross with me
than you are already, to read on and on, hoping for some startling development about the Stormy
Petrel, and find nothing but scenery. However, I've kept a diary to enclose in this, which
you can read or not, as you like. If you do, you won't be buoyed up with false expectations.

About Peter: as the war correspondents say, "We may look for great events in the course of
the next few weeks."

About Pat: she is still engaged to Ed Caspian, but I am looking for great events in that direction
also. The only trouble is, one can't tell with her which way the wind will blow. If Caspian
gets into deep water, she may feel--oh, well, we must pray that things will shape themselves
just right all round.

About Larry: I don't think I'd much care if it weren't for Pat. For a perfectly fascinating
human creature he is the most selfish pig I ever met, and for a selfish pig he is the most
charming being! He has certainly tried Lily's patience to the breaking point, but it hasn't
broken, and seems warranted not to break. Sometimes I've thought that he wanted to force the
woman to throw him over, then I've changed my mind and decided that he doesn't flirt for a
motive. He simply can't help it. And if the fleshpots of Egypt can only be his, mixed with
a diet of orange blossoms, I verily believe he'll take them together.

    Ever your affectionate and apologetic,

                                             MOLLY OF THE GUILTY SECRET.

                        MOLLY'S DIARY FOR MERCÉDES

                      From Wenham to Bretton Woods

Jack said at Ipswich that one ought to have a guide-catcher on one's automobile, like a cowcatcher
on an engine. The air was dark with would-be guides, though it's a beautiful town to get lost
in. We came to it from Wenham (where I ought to have mentioned the polo, Jack wouldn't have
forgotten) along a dream of a road lined with lovely white birches and lovely white houses.
The houses keep on being lovely at Ipswich, and the wonderful elms are many-branched, like
immense Jewish candlesticks of green-gold. You would never think the devil would come to such
a place! But it seems he did. There was a church he had heard of where the folk were particularly
religious, and he wanted to have a look. One was enough, however. He jumped right over the
church to avoid it and get back home as quickly as he could, and to this day you can see his
footprint on a black rock in the park.

That's one story. Another is that instead of going home, he bounded to Rowley, where there
is another charming church, looking the very haunt of peace, good will to men. I can quite
believe that even the devil might come a long way to gaze at some of these old New England
churches. You can't think what a feeling of pure delight they give to the mind, in spite of,
or because of, their simplicity. The green banks where they are built might be vast altars
with elms for the altar candlesticks, and the smooth sward for the altar cloth. The devil may
have heard all this, and wanted to see for himself if it were true. I don't know how he escaped
from Rowley, as he left no footprint, though the easiest way would have been along the good
Bay Road! Maybe he had a secret passage down under the sea, which isn't very far off. Spinning
on between meadows, you can see it away to the right, misty blue as the wild forget-me-nots
which mingle with a thousand other wild flowers.

Newburyport is like a perfume bottle for its sweetness, or, rather, two perfume bottles: one
filled with salt fragrance from the sea, the other with the scent of apple blossoms from countless
orchards. That sounds as if it were only a small village, but it isn't: it's a town, and one
of the most historic. Almost everything exciting that can happen in New England has happened
at Newburyport--from earthquakes which uprooted corn and set all the bells to ringing, to visits
of the French aristocracy, dashing exploits of privateers, the entertaining of General Washington,
and the quickest proposal of marriage on record. Almost the nicest thing about Newburyport,
however, and one of the nicest things I ever heard, is the story of Timothy Dexter, who grew
very rich, nominated himself for the peerage, and assumed the title of "Lord." He was considered
a half-witted sort of fellow, who inherited a little money and didn't know what business to
engage in. "Charter a ship," said a practical joker whom he consulted. "Buy a cargo of warming-pans
and send them to Cuba." Timothy Dexter did as he was told; but fortune is always supposed to
favour simpletons, you know! It happened in Cuba that there were not nearly enough buckets
to bail up the syrup from the vats in the sugar-cane mills, and those at hand were too small.
Dexter's warming-pans were just the thing! The whole cargo was bought up, fetching huge prices,
and "Lord" Timothy's fortune was made. After that he bought himself a big house and planted
his garden full of dreadful wooden statues, the worst of all representing himself.

We lost our fine roads as we left Massachusetts for New Hampshire, but the country was beautiful:
stone-wall country again, with straight, dark pines; and the road grew better as we neared
the dear old sea-going town of Portsmouth, full of beautiful and romantic houses. In one of
the best of them Governor Wentworth invited his friends to a party and flabbergasted them all
by turning the "party" into a wedding. He married his housemaid--but she was a beauty! But
of all the pleasant things of Portsmouth the Thomas Bailey Aldrich house is the best. This
lovely old house is kept exactly as he left it. His spirit seems to pervade the place as a
fragrance lingers after the flowers have gone.

You may call Portsmouth "Strawberry Bank" if you like. And once, at the mouth of Great Bay,
there was a terrible bar of rocks beautifully named "Pull-and-be-Damned-Point." People used
to love saying it when they felt cross, for even the ministers couldn't scold them for mentioning
it; but an interfering government took it away for the prosaic motive of making a fine harbour.

Across the Piscataqua River we were plumped into Maine, at Kittery, where there's a big navy
yard now, and where once they made splendid ships.

By a road that ran through woods and past ideal, storybook farmhouses we came to York, where
Captain John Smith came by sea. There we had to stop and look at "Ye Olde Gaol," because it's
the very oldest building of the American Commonwealth. The prisoners used to be "sold" for
several years, to work out their punishment, just as if they were regular slaves; and now in
the gaol they have all sorts of relics of past, queer customs. There's a fort still standing,
too, with an overhanging upper story to shoot Indians from, like the houses I wrote you about
when we first came into New England. There was a frightful massacre of the settlers once upon
a time, and a frightful revenge. Also there was a witch, who lies buried under a great stone,
so huge that she can't possibly squeeze through at night to ride on her deserted broomstick.
There are legends, too, and the nicest we heard was the ghost-tale of Pirate Trickey, who was
hanged on the seashore. That atonement wasn't enough for his crimes, though! He still haunts
the beach, ever binding sand with a rope, and groaning above the sound of the waves as the
sand slips away. And I mustn't forget "Handkerchief Moody," who gave Hawthorne his idea for
the "Minister's Black Veil"; but he was real and neither ghost nor legend.

There's a modern York, too, and so much of it that you might almost miss the old if you didn't
know. Lots of interesting people have stayed there: Mr. Howells, and Mark Twain, and your beloved
Thomas Nelson Page among the rest, but beyond their zone is the zone of the tiny toy cottages,
the crowded boarding-houses, the snub-nosed Lord motor cars rolling along the beach close to
the rolling waves, and beginning to sink in the sand if they stop. Beyond again, woods which
might be primeval, broken with farms as hidden away in their midst as those of the early settlers;
here and there a pile of fragrant cut timber; now and then a few hayricks, in fields surrounded
by vast tracts of pineland. Jack and I began to think we were on the most beautiful road yet.

We lunched at Ogonquit, beloved of artists, and then fell so in love with it ourselves that
we stayed all the rest of the day and all night, too. It's a fishing village, but you don't
stop in the village. You stop under the wing of a large gray, mother-bird-looking hotel close
to the shore, and away from everything else. On one side there is a cove with shiny brown rocks
so thinly trimmed with grass that they look like a suit of giant armour showing through a ragged
green cloak. On the other side is sea, blue by day as if it flowed over bluebell fields--strangely
blue as it sweeps up to embrace the rose and golden sands, the apricot pink sands. Toward evening
these sands were covered with gulls, lying thick as white petals shaken down from invisible
orchards. And the mourning cry of the sea-birds was as constant and never ending as the sea-murmur.
We forgot we heard it! But suddenly, as night fell, we remembered, because the crying ceased
as if it obeyed a signal for silence. No sooner had it stopped than the moon blossomed out
from the sea-mist like a huge rose unfolding behind a scarf of blue gauze. We were glad we
had stayed!

Next morning we atoned for lost time by getting up early and starting on again: a pretty road
through the village of Wells, with the sea in the distance. All the farmhouses seemed to take
summer boarders or give meals, and sell vegetables or something. They showed nice enticing
samples at their gates: strawberries, green peas, honeycomb, or gilded eggs. It did look so
idyllic!

We couldn't mistake Kennebunk when we came to it, because it advertises itself on a sign-post:
"This is Kennebunk, the Town You Read About." I hadn't read about it, but I felt I ought, for
if ever there was a typical New England town, Kennebunk is It! We slipped in along a grass-grown,
shady way, with old houses looking at us virtuously with sparkling eyes, as virtuously as if
they hadn't been built with good gold paid for rum. I think that was what the ships used to
bring back from their long voyages; but maybe the most virtuous-looking houses were built with
molasses. The ships brought that, too.

There are two rivers--the Monsam (at the Monsam House Lafayette stayed) and the Kennebunk,
and there's a roaring mill, but greatest of all attractions at Kennebunk is that of going on
to Kennebunkport. Mrs. Deland has a house there, and Booth Tarkington, too, and it's a dear
delightful place, with arbourlike streets running inland, and deep lawns with elms shaped like
big shower bouquets for brides.

It wasn't long after Kennebunkport that we beheld for the first time sawmills, and logs that
had come down from the White Mountains. That was a thrill! For we were on our way to the White
Mountains. We saw no sign of them yet, but there was no cause for impatience. The landscape
was as lovely as if planned by the master of all landscape gardeners. There were quaint features,
too, as well as beautiful ones: everywhere funny little tin boxes standing up on sticks by
the roadside, labelled "U.S. Mail," with no guardians but squirrels and birds, and apparently
no one to read or send letters.

Biddeford was attractive, and so was Portland, but Portland was the means of delaying our car.
Jack would go wandering to the eastern side of the nice city, to find a monument he had read
about, overlooking Casco Bay. Underneath are buried, in one grave, the commanders of the Enterprise
and the Boxer, British and American ships. The American won, but both commanders were killed,
and the Britisher had been so brave that they thought their own captain would like to lie by
his side. It wasn't a grand monument to see, but I love the idea. And another thing I love
about Portland is the thought that Longfellow was born there in sight of the ocean.

By and by, a good long time after we had got out of Portland by Forest Avenue, our road began
to run uphill. In a park leading to Raymond, where Hawthorne "savagized" as a boy, our hearts
beat at sight of a sign saying "White Mts." Just that! Abrupt but alluring. White birches were
like rays of moonlight striping the dark woods, and there was the incense smell of balsam firs.
We sniffed the perfume joyously and reminded each other--Jack and I--that Maine is America's
Scotland: like Scotland for beauty of lake and forest and mountain; like Scotland, too, "hard
for the poor, and a playground for the rich."

Along a rough but never bad country road we flashed past lake after lake--Sebago the biggest--and
ahead of us loomed far-off blue heights like huge incoming waves sweeping toward an unseen
shore. No longer did we need a sign-post to point us to the mountains; but there were some
things by the way that surprised us. Suddenly we found ourselves coming on the "Bay of Naples,"
a big sapphire sheet of water ringed in with some perfectly private little green mountains
of its own. It was as if we had dreamed it, when we plunged into forests again, deep, mysterious
forests of hemlock. Cowbells tinkled faintly, as in Switzerland, though we saw no cows, and
there was no other sound save the sealike murmur of the trees--that sound which is the voice
of Silence. Lakes and ponds lay at the feet of dark slopes, as if women in black had dropped
their mirrors and forgotten to pick them up.

We were back in New Hampshire again for the night, for we stopped in North Conway, at a hotel
in a great garden. If it had liked, it could have called the whole valley its garden, for it
is a vast flowery lawn with mountains for a wall. Such a strange wall, with a high-up stone
shelf on which you might think the brave Pequawket Indians had left the images of their gods,
beyond the reach of white men. They had a fine village of wigwams where our hotel stands now,
facing the mountains it's named for, and the trees and the Saco River haven't forgotten their
old masters' songs of war and of hunting.

*

This part of the world must be the intimate, hidden home of balsam firs. The air is spiced
with their fragrance, and not only the gay little shops at North Conway, but each farmhouse
and cottage we passed next day, going on to Crawford Notch, sold pillows of balsam fir.

By this time we began to pity and patronize ourselves, because we had thought that nothing
could be as beautiful as our ways of yesterday. The ways of to-day were the most beautiful
of all. We were going to Bretton Woods, and on the way we learned a great secret--this: that
when the Fairies made their flit--the well-known Dymchurch Flit--they decided to emigrate to
the White Mountains. Somebody had told them--probably it was the Moon--that the scenery there
was marvellously suited to their tastes, and would give them a chance to try experiments in
landscape gardening according to Fairy ideas. It seemed likely that they might remain undiscovered
in the new fastness for many centuries, and that when the time came for their presence to be
suspected, the world would have assumed a new policy toward the Fay race. No cruel calumnies
would be written or spoken about them, such as saying that they cast spells on children or
animals, and it would be between Man and Fairy a case of "live and let live."

Some dull, unobservant people might think that our road was walled on one side by gray-blue
rocks, but in reality they are dark, uncut sapphires, a façade decoration for the Fairy King's
palace. Those same dullards might talk of scattered boulders. They are trophies, teeth of giants
slain by Fairy warriors. Fairies melt cairngorms and topazes which they find deep in the heart
of the mountains, and pouring them into the sources of rivers and brooks give the colour of
liquid gold to the water which might otherwise be a mere whitish-gray or brown. Fairies crust
the stones with silver filagree-work dotted with diamonds. Fairies have planted blue asters
and goldenrod and sumach in borders, studying every gradation of colour, and while the flowers
lie under the spell of the sun they become magic jewels, because the seeds were brought from
Fairyland. Fairies, who no longer bewitch children, have turned their attention instead to
enchanting the young, slender birches of the mountain waysides. The enchantment consists in
causing rays of moonlight always to glimmer mysteriously on the white trunks, in full daylight.
They seem illuminated, even to eyes that haven't found out the secret. The carpets of moss
are the Fairies' roof-gardens, where they dance and pretend to be ferns if you look at them.
The round stones in the water-beds are the giants' pearls which were lost in the great battle.
The music of the forest is an orchestra consisting of Fairy voices and stringed instruments,
harps, violins, and 'cellos. And now and then I caught a high soprano note beyond the powers
of a Tetrazzini.

It was a Fairy who told me that Mount Washington is bare because he gave his green velvet mantle
to a smaller mountain, though he, at his cold height, needed it much more than his smaller
brethren of the Presidential Range. And from a Fairy, too (after we had passed the wide wonder
of Crawford's Notch), I heard the story of Nance's Brook. It is the gayest of all the gay brooks
of the mountains, so evidently it has forgotten Nance and ceased to mourn her. But she--a beautiful
girl of the neighbourhood--drowned herself there when her lover went off with a town beauty.
The brook used to be the Fairies' favourite bathing-place, and they could enter from a secret
corridor in their sapphire-fronted palace. Of course they could no longer use it after the
drowning; but they cased the body of Nance in crystal, like a fly in amber; and there, under
the running water, her face can sometimes be seen on midsummer nights.

Thus, Mercédes, ends your Molly's diary, for we have come to Bretton Woods!

XXVII

EDWARD CASPIAN TO DANIEL WINTERTON THE MANAGER OF A DETECTIVE AGENCY IN NEW YORK

                                                        Bretton Woods.

SIR:

I have received your letter and telegram, and am glad to find that you have a better opinion
of my deductions than was held by your confrère, Mr. Moyle. The longer I dwell on the idea
the more does it appear that circumstantial evidence all points one way. Why should this unimportant
and poor young man have an influence so extraordinary over Marcel Moncourt? More than one millionaire
would have given a fortune to Moncourt for less work than he is doing at Kidd's Pines practically
for nothing. It is known that he spoiled his son and brought him up with the airs of a prince
who might succeed to a throne. It is known also that the son went abroad directly after old
Stanislaws' sudden death. The story is a family scandal; but I have woven together a few of
the threads and can put them into your hands, which may help you to speed along your inquiries.

At that time I was not on intimate terms with my relatives. My sphere, in fact, did not touch
theirs. I never saw Moncourt's son, but I have heard him described as dark, tall, and somewhat
distinguished looking. This might also be a flattered description of the man in question.

I think I had better mention, in the same connection, an event which has just occurred. I cannot
say I am able to find that it has any concern with the affair on which you are engaged, but
you may see deeper than I do. At all events, I will bring it to your attention for what it
may be worth.

You have no doubt heard of the very fine mansion on Long Island, tentatively called "the Stanislaws
House?" I hoped that when I became heir to the property it would be mine, with the rest. Unfortunately
this was not the case. It had been left to a friend of the late heir, as was indubitably proved
by Mr. James Strickland, who legally represented the Stanislaws family, father and son. Now,
through Strickland, the place has been offered to me, if I wish to buy it. I should be inclined
to do so if I did not suspect something underhand in the business, though what, I cannot define.

The somewhat extended motor trip which has taken me away from Kidd's Pines is now nearly over;
but you might wire anything important to Great Barrington, Mass., where I shall be stopping
for a night after leaving here.

                              Yours truly,

                                                             E. CASPIAN.

XXVIII

PATRICIA MOORE TO ADRIENNE DE MONCOURT

                                                         Bretton Woods.

CHÉRE PETITE:

I must write to tell you I am happy again, though I ought not to be, and have no right. Oh,
it is like a miracle coming to pass, to be suddenly happy when you have thought all was at an end.

Suppose that it has poured down rain on your poor head for many days, and you are wet and cold,
oh, but cold through and through to your heart, and you have forgotten the feel of sunshine.
Then, of a sudden, a stream of light breaks out and dazzles in your eyes. You are warm, you
sing for joy. In the back of your mind a voice may say, "The clouds will shut up again, this
is not to last." For the moment you are happy and do not care for what will come. You just
hold out your arms to the warm ray of light.

It was like that with me to-day, and in all senses of speaking, for I was in a great rain,
alone and very sad and soaked--but I will tell you. There is none else I may tell, not even
Molly; for if I said this to her, she would again offer and insist to lend us money that the
ring of Mr. Caspian could be got from the Mont de Pieté and given back to him. She would think
that was the only thing needed to end the engagement which makes me miserable; and so it would
have been at first, or almost the only thing. Now there is more, for Mrs. Shuster begged dear
Larry to borrow some money from her the other night, when he had played poker in the hotel
at Boston with some men he met. Larry has such luck at the games of chance, nearly always,
he did not stop to think, "What will happen if I lose?" He played with all the eager fire that
it is his nature to put into everything he does, and these men were high punters, as reckless
as Larry and much more rich. So it was five thousand dollars my poor boy had to borrow, and
we cannot take the money which our wonderful Monsieur Moncourt makes for us from Kidd's Pines,
because of the bankruption, if that is the word, and so much always owing to creditors. It
is as if we held out a sieve for our great Marcel to pour gold dust into, and it nearly all
goes before we can touch it.

Naturally I cannot fail Larry when it is in my power to save him, no matter what the consequences
to me. But listen, ma chérie!

It is yesterday we came to Bretton Woods, after a drive of the highest beauty, with famous
points of view. I had to see them with Mr. Caspian at my side--all but the view of Crawford
Notch, as it is named, which is of a surprising splendidness, and where we stopped to get down
from our automobiles and walk about. When that happens--the getting down, I mean--I often find
myself with the Winstons, and Mr. Caspian does not care much to come where they are. Then,
when I am with them, often Mr. Storm is there, too. So the Crawford Notch was the best as it
was the most beautiful of my moments in the White Mountains till this afternoon. And now I
have come to what I wish to tell.

When we waked in the morning of to-day it was to see rain coming down in the cataracts. This
spoiled our plan of taking some walks and seeing the golf course, which Captain Winston loves
to do. But also, the rain made it not good to travel. Shut up, one misses the beauty of the
ways. Somehow it arranged itself through the influence of Molly and Jack that we stay long
enough to have a fine day. Not to be with Mr. Caspian too much, I stayed a good deal in my
room. I tried to read a novel I bought in the hotel--a hotel splendid enough for a big city,
though it stands among wild mountains, so far away from the world it is--Molly says--as if
Diogenes had had his tub enlarged and fitted up by Ritz. But this novel had a sad ending, I
found when I looked ahead, so I could not bear to go on. By that time it was afternoon. I went
downstairs. Most of our people were playing bridge, among them Larry and Mrs. Shuster, and
Mr. Caspian. Molly and Jack were not there. Neither was Mr. Storm. When he saw me Mr. Caspian
got up, and told his table they must make a dummy. I wished then I had stayed in my room, but
it was too late. The best I could do was to walk out on the veranda--an immense veranda where
the most fierce rain could not follow you to the chairs against the wall.

Molly and Jack love fresh air, so I thought perhaps to find them sitting out there. But they
were not to be seen; and when Mr. Caspian came on and on after me, though he hates what they
love, I took a most desperate resolution. I went straight ahead as if I had come downstairs
to do it, and walked right off the veranda into the pouring rain. I had no umbrella, and my
head was bare and I had on a dress of white shantung silk. I knew he wouldn't follow me into
the rain, and he didn't. He stood at the top of the steps and called after me that I was a
crazy girl. "Come back!" he said, as if he had the right to order me about. "You will get soaked
to your skin and catch your death of cold!"

I looked back just long enough to answer that I loved to be soaked to my skin, and I was not
afraid of catching the cold. All I wanted was that he did not catch me. But I did not say this
part aloud. He called out something more, but I had got too far away to hear, for I was walking
fast, and the rain made a loud, sweet sound, pattering on leaves. When I had looked back, I
had seen something more than the figure of Mr. Caspian standing on the steps in his nice white
flannel clothes: I had seen Molly and Jack and Mr. Storm. They were not on the side of the
veranda I had come out on, but just round the corner, talking together in great earnest. I
did not think they saw me; but you shall know by and by!

I must have seemed like a mad one walking along with my head up in all that rain, as if I were
out for my pleasure. But I did not care. I felt not to care for anything. It did not seem to
matter what happened to me; I wished that I could take cold and die. I found a path under trees,
winding up a beautiful high hill. On one side was rock, and I wished a large piece would fall
on my head so I should never have to go back to the hotel. But that was selfish to Larry, for
I could not bring him any money if I were dead!

I walked on and on, and the rain made my hair go in little corkscrew curls over my eyes, and
my thin dress stuck to my neck and arms like a skin, and I must have looked an object to scare
the crows. I was cold, too, for there was a chill in the rain as if it had once been ice on
some mountain-top, but I would not turn back. I was determined to wait a long time and be sure
Mr. Caspian had gone in to his bridge. Then, I thought, I would find some side way into the
hotel where I should not be seen.

As I walked up the path, I heard suddenly steps coming behind. I was afraid that after all
Mr. Caspian had decided himself to follow. I thought he had perhaps put on a coat for the rain,
and brought an umbrella to take me back, with my hand on his arm. Quick, I hurried to climb
up to a terrace-place there was above that place in the path, with a lovely tree on it, almost
like a tent. I think it is named the weeping ash. I sat very still underneath, and I hoped
the man might not look up; but I did not remember about my footprints in the wet earth stopping
just there. I did not think of the footprints at all.

From where I sat, crouched down under the low tent of the little tree, I could see the head
of a person coming. It was not the head of Mr. Caspian! It was a much higher head, and it wore
the hat of Peter Storm. When I knew it was he, I wanted, oh, so much, to call out his name
and tell him I was there. But I said to myself, "No, that would not be nice, my girl. He will
guess you hid from Mr. Caspian, but that you did not wish to hide from him!" So I did not move.
But he stopped and called my name. Then it was no harm to answer. Even the Sisters would say
it would be rude if I did not! I looked out from under the tree, and explained that I had come
there to wait till the rain was not so much. On his part he explained that he had seen my footmarks
come to an end on the path.

"I have brought you Mrs. Winston's umbrella," he said. "We saw you go away without one, so
she sent me with hers. May I come up and help you down? The grass is slippery."

I did not need the help, but I said, "Yes, come." And as he came, the rain, which had not been
so bad for some minutes, began to pour down in a torrent. Instead of falling in drops, it was
like thick crystal rods.

"We had better wait," he said. "The umbrella won't be much good in this deluge." It would have
been cruel not to ask him into my shelter, so I did; and it was too low for him to stand up.
He had to sit down by my side. The rain came in a little, though the tree made a thick roof,
and he put up the umbrella over my head. I told him he must come under it, too. We were close
to each other, more close than we had been on the front seat of the car in the days when he
drove with me by his side--closer than I had ever been with him except when we danced.

I looked up at him, and he looked down at me. "Poor little girl!" he said. "You are drenched!"

They were such simple words. Any one might have said them. But it was as if his eyes spoke
quite different things. A light shone out of them into mine. And though I did not mean to do
it, my eyes answered. I knew the most wonderful thing! I knew that he loved me, not like a
friend, but with a great, immense, fiery love. And I think he must have known that I loved
him, for I couldn't help my eyes telling.

Oh, Adrienne, now the secret is out to you. I have loved him a long time, loved him dreadfully.
I have felt as if he were me--as if I wasn't there till he had come. Do you understand? If
you do not, you have not yet loved your cousin Marcel de Moncourt!

It seemed to me that never in my life before had I felt; and suddenly I was crying, as his
eyes held mine to his. The next instant I was in his arms. It was not till then I thought of
my promise to another man. And to tell the truth, as I wish to do to you, it was two or three
minutes or maybe more that I did not think.

Then I took my arms down from his neck (yes, I had put them there, as if I were in a dream,
when his arms went round my waist and he kissed my cheek, all wet with cold rain and hot tears).
It was only my cheek, because I turned my lips away, not out of goodness or because of being
loyal to somebody else, I am afraid, but just because it seemed so great and wonderful to be
in his arms I could bear no more.

"I forgot!" I said. "I forgot that I have given my word."

"I forgot, too," he said. "But now it is irrevocable. Your word can't stand. You love me, and
nothing shall make me let you go. Don't you know that?"

I told him that if he loved me, I did not want to go. I was in the midst of saying that--though
I did not want to--I must; but he interrupted to tell how he loved me. And, Adrienne, if I
had never been happy for one single hour in my life till then, and could never be happy after,
still I should have been glad I was born--yes, glad even if I lived to be an old, old woman
with nothing of joy to remember but that. If this is wicked, it cannot be helped.

I had to listen while he explained that he knew I couldn't care for Ed Caspian, and it was
only to help Larry I had said yes. He went on, that he understood there must be money, for
Larry's sake, and if he could get money, quite a good deal, would I marry him? Even if I wouldn't
(he flashed out in a sudden, almost fierce way) he would never let Ed Caspian have me, because
he was not worthy and it would be sacrilege. I said, if I were alone in the world I would marry
for love if there was not a cent. But I must think for Larry, as Larry was like a boy, and
by comparison I felt an old woman. That made Peter laugh, for the first time, but he did not
laugh long. He begged me to trust him: that he knew how to get all Larry would need, and we
would both look after him together as if we were old people and Larry our child. He said there
were reasons why he could not have this money at once; at least, he could have it, but there
were things to be done first. All he asked for himself, till the hour came, was my trust. But
he wanted me to break off my engagement at once. After what had happened between us, he could
not any longer bear it to go on.

If it had been that I could give Mr. Caspian back his ring, I would have agreed to do as Peter
asked. Yet how could I say, "I will not marry you. But your ring you cannot have till I am
married to another man and his money gets it from the Uncle?" Even less could I tell Peter
about the Uncle, because he would blame poor Larry. It was dreadful to refuse Peter what he
asked, but I had to refuse. I was afraid he would be angry and despise me because I could not
even explain why I would not break. But there he was wonderful. When he had thought for a moment,
and looked at me as if he would read my soul, he said: "You must have some reason which seems
to you very strong. I asked you to trust me, and now I'm going to trust you, though it hurts
a good deal. It will be all the more of an incentive to me to make the way clear as soon as
possible; and meanwhile I'm not going to spoil the best hour I have ever known."

I was a little afraid, when he said this, that he might think we could lose ourselves in love
again; and he must have guessed what troubled me, for he spoke at once: "Don't worry. I know
now you love me. That's all I want. Till you give me the right to something more, I'll stand
where I stood half an hour ago, down on the ladder of friendship. But give me the rest of the
hour here--if you trust me as I trust you."

I was only too glad to consent. But the moment I agreed, he remembered that I was drenched,
and said he would take me home. I had to give him my hot hand before he would believe I was
warm as if sitting by a stove.

Oh, the glorious half-hour that followed! I cannot express to you, Adrienne, the joy of it.
We spoke no more of love. We did not touch each other. But we knew. And the rain, which had
come down for a few minutes in that great flood, stopped, to let the sun shine out. I never
saw the world so marvellous as then. The lovely things sparkling bright all around where we
looked put ideas of beauty in our heads, so we spoke about them, not about ourselves. Just
to be there together, that was all. You cannot think what a pleasure only to talk of trees!
And it seemed they were listening. They laughed and clapped their little hands.

*

It is Molly who says always that trees are alive, like us. These woods of the White Mountains
she calls the woods of Fairies. Now we saw well it was the truth. They looked quite different
woods from others. Even the sunshine was a different colour, and shades of colour. You see,
the woods are not old, but young: baby birches, and baby maples, and their big brothers not
yet turning darker green. In the sun all was gold of many tints. Peter and I could see a flickering
light, like a net of pale, pale gold, trail across the amber-coloured leaves of spring. Peter
said, "The spirit of the woods has bare shoulders, sunburned brown, and her gold hair blows
over them." I said, "The trunks of the littlest birches are sticks of her broken ivory fan
she has planted in the ground, and the tall ones are masts of buried ships, bleached white
in the moonlight." We were a chorus to praise the Nature; but if our tree had been a cell of
prison, we should have said, "the bars are beautiful."

It was such a dear, kind tree, my Adrienne! Peter made us both pretend that we could remember
when we had been trees, live creatures, living in lovely houses--the houses which were ourselves.
We had our concert rooms where the birds sang to us. We had our menageries of trained squirrels.
We lived very long, and always we were young and of great beauty. We slept in the time of winter
to dream of the summer days, and then we remembered the history of birds and men we had seen
making--all the things that, now we are people, we have to read in books. No words of the love
did we speak after those first minutes of surprise, but we could have sat forever, not tiring
of our talk.

At last I had to say, "Now we must go!" And Peter did not keep me. We shook hands like the
friends. And then the divine hour was over, except in memory. There it will always live for
me. I can always call it back, with every word and look, even if things do not come right for
us, as Peter thinks they will.

I wish, oh, how I wish, I could be as sure as he seems to be! But I cannot help telling myself
that perhaps, as he is used to being poor, he does not realize how much money Larry needs.

It has done me good to write to you of this, my Adrienne, for love is coming to you, too, even
if it has not yet come as it has to me.

                                                        YOUR PATRICE.

XXIX

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                               Awepesha, Long Island.

DEAREST MERCÉDES:

I haven't written to you since Bretton Woods, because the little details of our travels might
have seemed an aggravation while I kept the Secret up my sleeve, and had no particular personal
news with which to embroider the story of the days. Now, it's different. I can't tell you the
Secret yet, it's true; but there's some rather big news--news which brought us all back to
Long Island in a hurry after Great Barrington. I'm debating with myself whether to blurt it
out now, or to lead up to it gradually. I'll ask Jack's advice!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have asked, and Jack says, "I think Monty and Mercédes would rather finish our travels with
us, and see the things that happened as we saw them, instead of being made to play Providence
and reach the end before it arrives."

So I'll take his word for it, and begin where I left off at Bretton Woods, only hurrying on,
perhaps, a little faster than I should if there were no bombshell to explode later.

We didn't hurry our journey, however. No presentiment warned us of what was to come. We stayed
two days at Bretton Woods, and adored the place. Fancy drinking water from a spring at Mount
Echo! The name turned water into champagne. And fancy having nice college boys disguised as
waiters, to serve us, and earn enough for next winter's course! It rained one day, but the
downpour was a blessing in disguise for it drew Peter and Pat nearer together and wove a spun-glass
barrier between the girl and Caspian. She ran out in a torrent to get rid of the inevitable
Ed, who discreetly retired in fear of a drenching; then, when his back was safely turned, I
sent Peter Storm after her with an umbrella. Jack and I were still on the veranda when the
two came back an hour and a half later. The rain had stopped. Danae's shower of gold had been
scattered over the woods in a sunburst. But even the joyousness of nature was hardly enough
to account for the look on their faces. I hoped to hear that night or next day that the unnatural
engagement with Ed Caspian was "off." There I was disappointed. Not a word was said either
by the girl or the man; yet something happened during that walk in the rain, I was still sure.
Both were different afterward, in a way too subtle to define. But nothing is too subtle to feel!

The night after starting on again we stopped at Lake Sunapee in New Hampshire, and the day's
run getting there was just as astonishing as the run which brought us to Bretton Woods. We
saw the glories of Franconia Notch. We saw the Great Stone Profile, which influenced Hawthorne's
life. I heard people speaking of it as the profile of an "old man," but to Jack's eyes and
mine it was young with eternal youth, the youth of the gods. It gave us the same mysterious
thrill that the Sphinx gives; and its gaze, reading what sky and mountains, cathedral forests
and rushing rivers have to tell, holds the same Secret that's in the stone eyes looking over
the desert.

There are some charming Indian legends in these mountains where the Profile reigns as king.
One is the story of an immense carbuncle, the biggest jewel in the world, which hangs suspended
from a rock over a hidden pool that reflects its fire. It's guarded by an evil spirit, but
when the day comes for it to be found, the god of the Profile will put the knowledge of its
whereabouts into the mind of a man. At the same time strength will come to that man to overcome
the wicked guardian, and win the jewel. How I wish the Profile had taken a fancy to Jack! I'm
sure there couldn't be a better modern St. George. Alas, however, no flash of divination came
to him, and the only supernatural adventure we had in these faun and fairy haunted woods was
to catch a glimpse of the White Doe of the mountains which appears to travellers now and then,
bringing them good luck. Of course some people would say it was just an ordinary, café-au-lait-coloured
deer, with the sun shining on it to make it look white; because there are still deer in the
mountains: but you and Monty wouldn't be so banal!

We saw lakes and forests, dark, impenetrable pines, and baby woods of white and gold and palest
green; rivers and brooks that are cousins to the brooks and rivers of Scotland; rocks like
enchanted elephants lying down fast asleep in surging foam, and green pools clear as glass
to their pearl-stored depths. The Flume, in its different way, was as memorable as the Great
Stone Face. So flashing white was the swift water it seemed to send out troops of flying spirits
which vanished as we looked, or else crossed on a bridge of rainbow to the blue mountains that
walled the distance.

Sunapee has a river and a lake, and our hotel was great fun, with a dining-room which pretends
to be a glorified log cabin. Next day we had lost the superlative beauty of the mountains.
It was just very pretty country, where the mountains sent the baby foothills to play and sun
themselves. By and by, however, the Green Mountains began to float before us, not in the least
green, but darkly blue against the pale-blue sky, like background mountains in Stained-Glass-Window
Land; and Vermont opened adorably. The door of the State was set in a wall of beautiful forests,
wild forests which might have been discovered by us for the first time if a great suspension
bridge hadn't given away the story of civilization. The mountains pretended to be wild also,
though they were low and softly wooded. But along our roadside lay piles of good-smelling,
newly sawn wood, which we feared that men, not brownies, had placed there; and now and then
we passed, in the midst of apparent wildness, a mild-looking elderly farmhouse.

Towns had a way of appearing where we least expected to see them; Chester, for instance, which
had nothing to lead up to it. (But there was a delicious luncheon in it!) And the instant we
had passed out from its street of stately trees we were deep in the country again. I don't
know why Vermont should have the greenest grass and trees in the world, and more varieties
of wild flowers growing in thick borders by brooks and roadsides. Yet really it does seem to
be so! I shall always think of Vermont as the State of wild lawns and gardens.

*

Did you ever see what they call the "jewel flower?" I saw it for the first time in Vermont:
a delicate little yellow bell of a thing; but its stem is a magician. Dip it in water, and
in a few minutes it will have collected enough solid-looking pearls for a necklace. It was
Peter who knew this, and told Pat, whereupon she had the Grayles-Grice stopped for an experiment,
and the whole procession halted. The brook proved the truth of Peter's statement. It's extraordinary
the country as well as town lore Peter has! At least I wondered at it, until I heard something
of what his adventurous life has been.

If we discovered one new flower that day, we discovered dozens; new to Jack and me, I mean:
tall, rose-red ones like geraniums, of which the country people couldn't tell the names; purple
ones like plumes; white ones like blond bluebells; and others that looked like nothing but
themselves. All the old friends were there, too: wild roses, honeysuckle, convolvulus, growing
in the midst of feathery ferns and young-gold bracken. Never did any earthly gardener plant
with such an eye to colour as the planting of what Vermont farmers call their "wild lots."
There were apple trees, very big and of strange, dancing shapes, almost like the olives of
Italy; and after we had left the garden country for a country of hills with steep gradients,
we came to "maple-sugar country." (I shall send you a box of that maple sugar, which we bought
at a pretty little place named Peru. But I'm afraid it's last year's.)

Despite their steepness the roads were well made, humping themselves up very high, and then
sinking comfortably down into what they call "water breaks" or "thank you, ma'ams!" I'd often
heard that last expression; but being English, Jack had to have it explained to him that the
horse was supposed to rest there a minute and give thanks for the respite from pulling.

It will make you feel as if I'd rubbed a file across your front teeth, my dear, when I tell
you that we shot out of maple-sugar country into marble country. But isn't that better than
mixing them up together? The marble's very pretty, and you don't have to eat it. You walk on
it, when you come to Manchester-in-the-Mountains. Before you get there, though, you see many
other mountains, which don't belong to Manchester. They are bold and big enough to be named
Ben Something or Other if they were in Scotland; but this is such a country of mountains you
know--White, Blue, and Green--that they don't get grand titles conferred on them unless they're
beyond the average.

Manchester-in-the-Mountains is called the "City of Marble Pavements," which makes you feel,
before you see it, as if you were coming to Rome after it was improved by Augustus Cæsar. But
it is really a perfectly beautiful village, whose highroad is the main street, and at the same
time a cathedral-aisle of elms. They paved it with marble only because there's so much marble
about they don't know what to do with it all--unless they give it away with a pound of tea.
We stayed all night in the nicest country hotel Jack and I ever saw in our lives. It's named
after a neighbouring mountain; and I think it must have been made by throwing several colonial
houses together and building bits in between. The rooms give circumstantial evidence for this
theory, too, for there are labyrinths of drawing-rooms and parlours and boudoirs and libraries,
with a step or two up, or a step or two down, to get in. It's chintzy and cozy and old-fashioned
looking, yet really it's up to or ahead of date. As for the people who stay there, GOLF is
written all over them, for the great attraction of the place is one of the best golf courses
in the United States.

We both felt that we were being cruelly torn away when we had to "move on" again next morning,
but we are always pretty soon resigned to being in a car again, you know! I feel so deliciously
irresponsible the minute I start off, like a parcel being sent to some nice destination by
post. I can't understand any one not feeling that a motor is as companionable as a horse, can
you? It has so many interesting moods, and one's relation with the dear thing--if it belongs
to one--gets to be so perfect!

Besides the joy of the car, we found the Green Mountains particularly lovable, not large, but
of endearing shapes. We should have liked to have them for pets. Yet the pet aspect is only
one of many. They have grand aspects, too. They've inspired poets, and given courage to soldiers.
Yesterday we had thought Vermont all made of gardens. To-day it was made of mountains, mountains
everywhere the eyes turned. And wherever there was a place to nestle an exquisite farmhouse
did nestle. I used to think that England had the monopoly of beautiful farmhouses, but these
Vermont ones, though as different as a birch from an oak, are just as perfect. Even Jack, whose
every drop of blood is English and Scottish, admitted this.

They're white and of simple lines, with a rich green background of woods. In front there are
lawns with lots of flowers growing as they please, and ferns left to do as they like if they
don't interfere with other people; on both sides generous meadows stretching far away. Jack
said: "What a warm glow the thought of such a home must bring to the heart of a boy when he's
out for the battle of life! And what a place to come back to at Christmas!"

"Or Thanksgiving," said I. But "Thanksgiving" suggests no picture to Jack as it does to you
and me. Our cranberry sauce in England is always a failure, not thick or sweet enough; and
the poor fellow has never tasted pumpkin pie! If one of them came into his life, he would probably
address it as it is spelt; and what self-respecting pumpkin pie would be luscious unless it
were pronounced "punkin?"

"Anyhow, I give Vermont a star," he murmured, with the look of pinning a V. C. onto a mountain's
breast. And he did that just in time, for the mountains were receding into the background,
taking hands in a ring round wide woodlands.

By way of the pretty toy town Arlington we came to Bennington, which is the heart of history
for Vermont. The man for whom it was named was granted the first township in the wild lands
known as "the Wilderness" then. But it must have been a beautiful wilderness, for the British
soldiers of those pre-Revolutionary days used to fall in love with it as they marched through,
and promise themselves that they would come back and build homes. They did come back and build
the homes, and the "promised land" was so attractive that New York wanted to take it away by
writ of ejectment. The Vermonters decided to fight for their rights under Ethan Allen, and
thus "The Green Mountain Boys" came into existence as a famous band. The bronze catamount which
still grins defiance toward New York from the top of its tall pedestal makes that day seem
yesterday!

There's a great monument also, to the battle which made Bennington's glory, but the most humanly
interesting thing in town--for us--was the old Robinson house. Such a darling house, with a
heavenly door and scalloped white picket fence. You would love it! And it's turned itself into
a kind of glorified curiosity shop, as so many of the charming old houses of New England have
done. You feel you must go in to see what these lovely houses are like inside; and the first
thing you know, you are buying Queen Anne mirrors, japanned trays, braided mats, and even serpentine
fronted bureaux, which you don't know what to do with but die rather than do without!

Everything else that we saw was a "star" place after that, for we were coming back into Massachusetts,
and to the Berkshire Hills which Thoreau loved, and Hawthorne, and Longfellow, and Oliver Wendell
Holmes. Williamstown is as celebrated in its smaller way as Harvard or Yale, for a university's
fame needn't consist in size, I suppose! I hardly ever saw a place where every building was
so perfectly suited to every other building, without one jarring note; and though it's more
important than a village now, the lovely description Hawthorne wrote suits the town as well
as ever. He said: "I had a view of Williamstown from Greylock summit: a white village and a
steeple in a gradual hollow, with huge mountain swells heaving up, like immense subsiding waves
far and near around it."

Do you remember "Ethan Brand" and "The Unpardonable Sin?" I hadn't realized till Jack reminded
me, as we looked up to "Old Greylock," that the lime kiln was there. I'm going to read Hawthorne
all over again now--when I have time!

"Greylock" was the translated name of a brave Indian chief who used to fight with the French
against the English. I wonder what he would say nowadays when they are Allies? If he were as
intelligent as his mountain is beautiful, he'd be glad.

The Berkshire Hills are the small brothers of the Green Mountains, for they are all of the
same family, but they have their own characteristics. It seems as if the men who engineered
the wonderful roads must have loved the hills and planned each mile of the way so as to show
off some favourite feature. For instance, you could never for a minute miss Greylock's long,
dove-coloured streak which justifies his name!

If Williamstown is the gate of the Berkshires, Pittsfield is their heart; and so it's right
that the place should be the literary landmark it is. Longfellow came on his honeymoon to the
"hill city," and wrote the "Old Clock on the Stairs" in the very house where the clock was--and
is now. South Mountain is close by, where "Elsie Venner" scenes were laid; and "Elsie's" author
lived for years at a place between Pittsfield and Lenox. It's still there, and is called "Holmesdale."

We spoke of staying at Pittsfield all night, just because it's lovely; but we arrived so early
that Caspian and Mrs. Shuster wanted to go on to Great Barrington, where we had planned to
stop. They said they expected letters. "Shall we thwart them?" Jack asked me mischievously.
I murmured that it was a "toss up," so we did go on--which was a good thing, as it turned out.

Pittsfield ought to have been stopped in, for it is a dream of beauty, and so is Lenox. Stockbridge
seemed just as charming--almost more to me, for Hawthorne lived there, in a "little red house
with green shutters," on the shore of Stockbridge Bowl. We had followed him about from place
to place, but there we had to leave him at last, writing "The House of the Seven Gables."

Then, always running along the most perfect road, we came to Great Barrington, Bryant's home.
We couldn't escape the romancers and the poets if we'd wished, for it was their country. It
was late by this time, and we were hungry and dusty. I didn't expect letters, and felt inclined
to wish we had lingered farther back. Here there would be a rush to bathe and dress before
a decent dinner hour: and it looked such a smart hotel!

"I believe, now I come to think of it, that I asked to have letters forwarded to me from Kidd's
Pines," remarked Larry, as we all walked into the big hall. "They'll be the first I've had--if
there are any. I put them off till the last minute! I didn't want the beastly things to look
forward to on getting home."

I hardly listened. The hotel seemed full, and I was wondering if Jack could get me a room with
a bath. Pat and I and the Goodrich goddesses grouped together, waiting to hear our luck as
to quarters, when Larry came to us, looking rather dazed. He had some letters in his hand,
and an open telegram.

"This has been waiting for me all day," he said in a queer voice, and held out the telegram
to Pat. I felt a little frightened. But nobody we loved could be dead!

"Oh, Molly!" the girl cried. "Kidd's Pines has had a fire. It is partly burnt down. All the
people have had to go away. That means my life is over!"

The last words broke from her in such a tone of despair that I was startled. It was grievous
that damage should have come to the dear old house. But why should she say her "life was over?"
I asked myself the question; but suddenly the answer seemed to come, like a whisper in my ear:

"She thinks it means ruin. If she hoped to break off with Caspian in spite of everything, and
marry Peter, she feels that hope is over."

There was no chance of a private word with Pat then or afterward. The news ran like wildfire.
All the men came and crowded round us, consoling or giving advice. Jack was the most sensible.

"Let's see when the next train starts," he said. "You and I, Molly, will go with Moore and
Pat; and they must stop with us at Awepesha. The others, of course, can do as they like."

It ended in the whole party taking the train, for every one was anxious for one reason or other.
The bride and bridegroom and the Goodriches had left things they valued at Kidd's Pines. Caspian
and Mrs. Shuster felt that where the Moores went, there they ought to go also. As for the Boys,
they would have followed Pat to the death.

*

Well, we got off, at the cost of dinner. But most of us had forgotten that we were hungry.
The cars were simply abandoned for the time being, in garage. They were to be "sent for," like
boys and girls at a children's dance.

You can imagine that, by the time we had got to New York, and from New York to Long Island,
it was a witching hour of the night! Nobody cared, however. All our thoughts were centred at
Kidd's Pines. I kept Pat close to me in the train, and once in a while Peter hovered near,
as if he longed for a chance to say something. But Pat could not or would not talk, either
to him or me. She had a headache, and sat with her eyes shut, looking pitifully pale. Larry,
on the contrary, was all excitement, and never stopped jabbering with one person or another
till the end of the journey. I could have boxed his ears.

Well, when at last we arrived, the damage wasn't as bad as we expected, for the fire had started
by day. Wasn't it sickening, a woman (one of Kidd's Pines' "paying guests") had upset a lot
of alcohol from a spirit lamp. That was the way it began. And she didn't give the alarm at
first: she was afraid of the consequences to herself, and she and her maid tried to put the
fire out. Of course the room got thoroughly alight before anything was properly done. One wing
of the house is half in ruins. Nothing else is hurt much, except by water. But, as the telegram
said, every one cleared out, as rats leaving a sinking ship. And would you believe it, there
is no insurance! How like Larry!

I've been trying to forget my worries for a while, writing this long letter to you, and leaving
the worst for the last. But really, I don't know what is to be done about Larry and Pat. If
it weren't for what Peter Storm told me at Wenham in Aunt Mary's garret, I--oh, I mustn't tread
on that ground, though! I forgot that the time limit isn't up.

Pat and Larry wouldn't come to stay with us after all. Their rooms were not hurt, and they
wanted to stop at home. Caspian and Mrs. S. are there, too. I wish they weren't. But I hear
that C---- is soon starting for New York on business. I hope to goodness it's true! Peter also
had to go there this morning, by the earliest train--a milk train or an egg train or something,
and there won't be any news worth having until to-morrow, I suppose. This is only the morning
after our night rush from Great Barrington. I hardly slept, and neither did Jack, but we are
both keyed up with excitement, guessing why Peter Storm is in New York. I don't know just when
he can get back, or whether he'll come here, or go straight to Kidd's Pines--or to his lodgings.
But Jack and I shall motor over early in the old car this afternoon to see how dear Patsey
gets on. I'll post this, and write you again the minute I have something to tell.

                                     Ever Your                     MOLLY.

XXX

EDWARD CASPIAN TO DANIEL WINTERTON

                                               Great Barrington, Mass.

SIR:

I thank you for your telegram and letter which I have just found, and am answering in haste,
as I am starting almost at once for Long Island by train. News has come by wire that there
has been a fire at Kidd's Pines, causing considerable destruction, and the trip ends suddenly
a couple of days sooner than it should have done. I am much interested in your news and the
information you have picked up. No doubt I shall want the person you mention who knows Moncourt
Junior to come to Kidd's Pines within the next few days, as soon as things are more settled
there. I will then manage to have "Storm" on the spot, as you suggest, and we shall see the
effect of the surprise. If an arrest can follow, so much the better. Men of his stamp are enemies
of society. You have my full permission to communicate with the regular police, who will be
glad of this chance put into their way, whether they choose to give us credit or not. Suspicion
was hushed up by the family and the doctors, but it was certainly suggested that young Moncourt
caused the death of my distant cousin Stanislaws, and robbed him of valuables which he was
known to keep in his bedroom. There was no account of these things when I inherited; but as
I could get nobody to come forward and swear to their existence, much less give a description,
I let the matter drop.

I have resolved to buy the Stanislaws house on Long Island, as to which I hesitated when I
wrote you last. Another communication has informed me that I must give an answer at once, or
the place will pass into other hands. My fiancée, Miss Moore, admired the house when our party
spent several nights there some time ago, and I may decide to give her the place as a wedding
present. I must go to New York from Kidd's Pines to-morrow morning, and fix this business up.
I will call on you at your office at five o'clock P. M. for a consultation, and should be glad
if you would secure the presence of Stanislaws' old valet whom you have discovered. I should
like to talk to him before he comes with me to Kidd's Pines.

                                   Yours truly,

                                                            E. CASPIAN.

XXXI

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                            Awepesha.

DEAREST:

I promised to write again soon, but there isn't yet the news I hoped to tell. Indeed, I'm a
little depressed and worried, though I've nailed my flag of faith to the mast of the "Stormy
Petrel!"

You shall know just what has happened.

I think I wrote you that Peter went to New York early the morning after our night rush from
Great Barrington to Long Island. I took it for granted that his business there concerned the
revelation he made to me in Aunt Mary's garret; but he had no time, and perhaps no inclination,
to enter into details. He just said, "I'm off, and I hope everything will go well. I shall
get back to my 'diggings,' and see you either at Awepesha or Kidd's Pines the minute I can
finish up."

Caspian hung about till Peter was safely away, and then put in as much deadly work as possible
before leaving for New York. He was nice (as nice as he knows how to be) to Larry and Pat,
and bucked them up about Kidd's Pines. That was the proper thing; but was it proper, or was
it simply Caspian-esque, to tell Patty at such a moment that he'd bought the beautiful Stanislaws
house I wrote you about, as a present for her? Of course he mentioned the sum he was paying
for it--a whacking one. He wouldn't be Caspian if he hadn't boasted!

I happened to be at Kidd's Pines when he was making this dramatic announcement. (I told you
Jack and I were motoring over in the old car, but we went earlier than we expected, because
just as I had finished your letter Patsey 'phoned to ask us for a "picnic luncheon in the burnt-up
house.")

Caspian was telephoning like mad when we arrived, and only finished just as luncheon was ready,
which gave him an excuse for letting his left hand, to say nothing of both feet, know what
his right hand had been doing. I suppose he was afraid, if Jack and I were left to hear the
news from Pat, a little of the gilt might be off the gingerbread. So he launched his own thunderbolt
as we sat down at the table: Larry, Pat, Mrs. Shuster, Jack, and I.

I was so flabbergasted that I can't remember his words. But they were those of the noble, misunderstood
hero of melodrama to his ungrateful sweetheart and her ruined father who have never appreciated
his sterling worth. He let them jolly well know, and rubbed it in, that he would never have
spent such an enormous sum on anything for himself: that indeed, though he ought to have received
the Stanislaws house as an inheritance, he had abandoned all idea of possessing it until Pat
expressed intense admiration for the place. With this incentive, the moment they were engaged
he had begun negotiations. The price asked was so outrageous, however, that he was on the point
of refusing when misfortune fell upon Kidd's Pines. It would now be impossible to continue
living there in comfort for the present, so he (Caspian) had spent his morning in fixing up
by 'phone the business of purchase. Of course he would have to go to New York, and see Mr.
Strickland, who had the matter in hand. Indeed, he intended to start directly after luncheon;
but he could not bear to go without relieving the family mind of its anxieties.

Poor little Pat was scarlet, and her eyes were--I was going to say like saucers, but I think
they were more like large, expressive pansies. "Oh, you shouldn't have done that for me!" she
exclaimed. "Of course, I'm grateful, and it was ver-r-y good of you, but----"

"Didn't you say you would love to live in that house?" Caspian cross-questioned her over a
pickle. (He's disgustingly fond of pickles: makes a beast of himself on pickles!)

"Yes, I suppose I did," Patsey admitted; and got out a "but" again, but not a word further.

"Very well. That was enough for me. I wanted to prove that I was going to stand by you now,
in every way, and I hope this is as big a proof as a man can give," said the noble saviour
of the situation. "We must marry as soon as possible, of course. I'll get the license to-day.
And then you can have your wish. You shall live in the Stanislaws house, and when your father
and Mrs. Shuster get back from their honeymoon you can write them to visit us, and stay as
long as they like."

Pat, as pale as she had been red, stammered confused thanks for his thoughtfulness. How could
the girl, when he'd just announced the expenditure of five hundred thousand dollars for her
beaux yeux, tell him not by any means to get the license?

I was sickeningly sorry for her. I knew exactly how she felt. As for me, I had rush of luncheon
to the head, a frightful effect, considering that I'd just eaten a soft-shelled crab. With
the little I knew of affairs between them I was still instinctively sure that Pat and the Stormy
Petrel had come to some sort of a vague understanding the day of rain at Bretton Woods. I thought
that the rain had melted down the wall between the two, and Peter had prematurely said more
than he meant to say, perhaps begging her to break off with Caspian. Evidently she had refused
(for Larry's sake), but had very likely hoped that somehow Peter would step in and save her
before it was too late.

Now, all of a sudden, it was too late! And Peter wasn't even near. I could imagine the child's
despair, with the present of a five-hundred-thousand-dollar house flung at her head--a house
which would be "no use" to her fiancé if it were not to be shared with her. Even knowing what
I knew, I feared that the situation might become serious, more because of Peter's absence than
anything else.

As soon as we finished luncheon and Caspian was saying good-bye to Pat (decorously in the presence
of Larry, from whom she refused to be detached), I asked Jack what he thought. "If only we
knew where to get at Peter in New York!" I wailed. "I'm afraid the girl will be married to
that creature before Peter comes back; and then nothing will be of any use."

"We mustn't let that happen," said Jack. "Not that I believe Storm has turned his back without
thinking of every contingency. And he must know about the sale."

"He didn't mention it when he told me the story," I said. "Not a word about the Stanislaws house!"

"Probably it didn't strike him as important in that connection," Jack argued; and I accepted
the deduction; but I was far from comfortable and my peace of mind was not restored by a conversation
I snatched with Pat when Caspian had gone. I begged her to do nothing rash, in a moment of
generous impulse; but she exclaimed, "It is others who seem to have the generous impulses!
I cannot afford to be generous. But dear Molly, I must be just. And now everything is against
Larry and me. We must go where the tide takes us."

She didn't use as flowery language as that, but it's difficult to quote Patty in the vernacular.

Well, we crawled home after a while, Jack and I. And nothing more happened that day, except
that Pat 'phoned me from her ruinous home about nine o'clock in the evening, to say "Mistaire"
Caspian had come back. He had bought the Stanislaws house and paid for it, but she had refused
to accept the gift. "It must be his, not mine," she said. "I understand that he would not have
bought it except for my sake, so already I owe him a big debt of gratitude. I will not owe
him more. It is now too much."

"Did he get the license?" I tremblingly ventured to inquire.

"Yes," Pat answered. But when I hurried on to the next question, "Have you fixed a date?" silence
was my answer. She had dropped the receiver, and I was afraid I could guess why. She couldn't
bear to discuss the sword hanging over her head. Few descendants of Damocles can!

All that was yesterday. I've waited to-day to write you in the hope of having something new
to tell. But it's now ten o'clock P. M. and there is nothing good; rather the contrary. Pat
has almost if not quite promised to marry Ed Caspian at the end of the week, Saturday, and
Mrs. Shuster has hinted at her willingness to become Mrs. Moore on the same day. The knots
are to be tied (devil permitting) very quietly, at home, in the water-logged drawing-room at
Kidd's Pines. My pleadings to Pat of no avail. The combination of pawned rings, debts, five-hundred-thousand-dollar
houses, etc., and Peter's absence at the crucial moment is too strong for her. As for Larry,
he seems to be as hopeless as his daughter. I fancy from a chance word which Pat inadvertently
let drop that, with the prospect of a millionaire son-in-law, Larry desperately attempted to
free himself, but Mrs. Shuster "persuaded" him to stick to his bargain. How she managed I don't
know, but there are lots of ways, and Larry with all his faults is a gentleman. He even has
a chivalrous vein which, though lying deep under selfishness, crops up near the surface occasionally.
I wish he'd been chivalrous with his daughter, while there was time for it to do good, instead
of at the last moment with this silly middle-aged woman who wants to get "into society" through
him.

Oh, just one other thing which I nearly forgot to mention! At my urgent suggestion Jack wrote
a line to Peter Storm, in care of a man named James Strickland, said by Caspian to have looked
after the interests of a family with whom Peter is connected. He's a well-known lawyer, so
we easily found his address in the New York directory. He has his office there, of course,
though I believe he has a house somewhere on Long Island, I don't know where. There's just
the merest chance that Peter Storm may go to him in New York. He's going to some lawyer, so
why not Strickland? Anyhow, we have no other means of getting at this extremely Stormy Petrel
until his return. May it not be put off too long!

Jack, like all other men, hated to interfere, for P. S. has never spoken to either of us, in
so many words, of his "intentions" toward Patty Moore. But I cooked up a specious-sounding
note, saying that, if Peter didn't want Caspian to complicate matters for everybody, he had
better hurry up and come back before C---- was actually married.

That letter went off by special delivery this morning.

Au revoir, till I can give you the sequel!

               Your battered but not yet broken

                                                                 MOLLY.

XXXII

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                             Awepesha.

MERCÉDES MINE:

Hurrah! There's a thing I may tell you without giving away Peter's confidences till the cat's
ready to jump from the bag.

Jack and I were restless last evening. When I finished my letter to you, it was only half-past
ten; and I felt as if I could jump up and down and scream.

"If I don't do something, I shall have a conniption fit!" I threatened.

Jack doesn't know what a conniption fit is, not having been brought up in an American nursery,
but lest it might be something appalling, he asked how I should like to go out in the car for
a short spin. By this time Hiawatha had been brought home by our chauffeur; and the moon was
soon due to rise, so it seemed an attractive prospect that Jack held out.

"I'll tell you what let's do!" said I. "Go over to Patty's. If there's a light in the drawing-room
windows we'll ring. If not, we'll just spin round outside the wall to the side gate, and go
into the grounds for a look at the moon from the Point of the Pines."

In fifteen minutes we were off. And as I've told you, it's only a short spin to Kidd's Pines.
There was a light in the drawing-room, so we did ring, and Pat was thankful for the excuse
to get out of doors. Larry had gone to town--on "business," he had said, and Mrs. Shuster was
sulking as if she doubted the statement. The Boys had been over from some weird inn, not far
off, where they are lurking now, in order to rally round their goddess, but luckily Pat had
sent them away just before we arrived. They would have been too noisy to please the moon! Patsey
had been playing the piano at Mrs. Shuster's request, while the latter forlornly knitted impossible
socks for Brobdinag-footed soldiers.

Of course we politely asked Mrs. S. to join our expedition, at the same time intensely willing
her to refuse. Will prevailed. Mrs. Shuster said she "must write to the poor dear Senator,
and send him good wishes for a lecture he is to deliver in New York." So she was disposed of;
and we three went out into the fragrant night. I suppose she calls her Senator "poor dear"
as a delicate way of letting us guess that she has refused him.

Have I told you about the Point of the Pines, I wonder? I feel sure I must have done so. The
Pines are those under which Captain Kidd is supposed to have buried some of his treasure--the
pines which have given the place its name. There is a narrow slip of land on which the principal
members of this pine family grow. Instead of stretching straight out into the water, it curves
toward the lawn, as if the back of your hand and your four fingers composed the lawn, and your
thumb, slightly but not far extended, were the Point of the Pines. There are only a few trees,
for the Point is small; they're seven in number and they reach beautifully toward the Sound,
like running dryads holding out eager arms to the sea. They aren't ordinary pines, such as
you may see almost anywhere on Long Island, but are of the "umbrella" sort, like those of Italy,
just as beautiful if not nearly so large as those at Rome in the Pincian gardens, or at Naples,
where their branches seem sketched in straight, horizontal black lines against the blue background
of sea and sky. Shelter Island has one such pine, under which also Captain Kidd is supposed
to have deposited a sample of treasure. I think there are no more in our part of the world.

Well, you can imagine that it's wonderful to sit by the water, lapping and whispering as it
mumbles to the shore with toothless baby mouths; to sit there and wait for the moon to come
up behind those dark umbrella pines.

None of us three felt like talking. There wasn't much to say which interested us just then,
and at the same time went well with the exquisite romance of the place. Besides, it was lovely
to listen to the water.

We grouped together, sitting on the grass, Jack with his back against a big chestnut tree,
I leaning against his shoulder, and Patsey reclining, with her elbow in my lap. Far away a
clock musically struck the half-hour after eleven, and as the sound died away a creamy light
began to run along the sky. We sat very still, knowing what was coming to pass. In a minute
more we saw a ruddy rim rise out of purple dusk; and with that almost incredible quickness
in which the miracle is accomplished, the whole moon was up, red and slightly concave, for
it was past the full.

Then the thing we had come out to see, happened. We saw the molten lamp directly behind the
biggest of the seven pines out on the Point. The tree, black as ink, looked suddenly like a
gigantic suit of armour, with an immense heart-shaped jewel--perhaps that magic carbuncle from
the hidden pool of the White Mountains--suspended in its breast.

While we looked something else happened: a small rowboat with a man in it skimmed into sight,
and slowed down at the Point of the Pines. Silent as a water bird it glided into the tiny cove
between the point and the wide stretch of lawn, stopping dead under the moon-illumined tree.

By common consent we were as still as statues. Where we sat at a distance from the shore, and
under the big chestnut, we were invisible to the man in the boat. We thought we should see
him climb onto the bank, where his figure would be silhouetted against the moonlight; but he
didn't appear.

"Perhaps it's a rendezvous of sweethearts," I whispered. "Presently another boat will come
with the girl."

"Perhaps," Patsey whispered back. "Yes, it must be that. There is nothing he can do with the cave."

"Cave!" echoed Jack, interested as a boy. "Is there a cave?"

"It is only a little one," said Pat. "Not a nice cave. I have been in it when I was small.
One gets there if one slides down a bank from the Point, just as well as from the water. I
would run away from my nurse, and she would scold and call out, but she would not come after
me, because it is a very low roof. To get to the very end, one must go on the hands and knees,
but I liked that the best of all. I tried to find the treasure of Captain Kidd, which Larry
told me about. But that was only a child's thought. He would nevaire have hidden it where one
had only to push through some bushes, then to crawl in and pull it out."

"No," said Jack, who had never put much faith in the treasure's tale, much as he would have
enjoyed doing so. "All the same, a cave's a big attraction. Lots of people must have tried
their luck exploring, in the hope of some secret hidie-hole."

"Not so many know of the cave, that it is there," said Pat. "Some bushes grow in front and
hide the mouth. If not, you would have seen it yourself. But Larry told all the people who
came to stay this spring. He thought it would amuse them to look for the treasure. And it was
promised--if there had not been the fire!--that when we came home from our trip we would give
a party to dig under the pines. Each one was to have a spade; and it would be allowed to dig
down some feet, but not enough to hurt the pines. The gardeners were to decide on that. Larry
thought it would be fun. But I am not sure if Mistaire Caspian would not have persuaded him
to forget the plan. He told me, if there were a treasure, it would be best to keep it for ourselves."

"All in the family," said I. And to myself I added, "Catch him giving something for nothing!"

"Shall I take a peep at that fellow down there?" suggested Jack. "He has no right trespassing
anyhow, whether he's prospecting for treasure or waiting for his girl."

"Let's all three go and stare at him with calm reproach," I said. "The moonlight will shine
on our faces and turn us into accusing spirits."

We got up and walked across the lawn, threading our way among trees till we came to the bank
where we could look down to the water and straight across to the Point. There was the boat,
tethered to a bush, but the man had vanished.

"By Jove! He must be in the cave!" said Jack. "I'll go----"

"No, you won't!" I cut him short fiercely. "If you do I'll scream at the top of my voice and
yell for help. He may be a murderer!"

"Xantippe!" Jack retorted; but he couldn't help laughing when Pat and I both seized his dinner-jacket.

"Look!" whispered the girl at that instant. "Just there! A light--a little faint light--behind
the bushes."

"The fellow's coming out," said Jack.

"Oh, then we can all stand behind this tree and watch," I proposed. "When he's getting into
his boat Jack can challenge him. He'll probably be so scared he'll fall into the water."

The tree I meant was a large-waisted willow, of the weepiest variety, with girth enough and
tears enough to hide us all, especially as Pat and I were darkly dressed--she in green and
I in gray.

We hadn't many minutes to wait; indeed, it was but half an hour since we came out, for the
clock we had heard struck again: midnight. We felt deliciously creepy! Of course I hadn't wanted
Jack not mended yet from the trenches to go crawling on all fours into perfectly irrelevant
caves with no Orders of Merit or Victoria Crosses attached to them. At the same time, we were
keyed for comedy, and just excited enough to forget the skeletons in our closets at home: Caspians,
and Shusters, and money-lenders, and unpleasant things like that.

It was just as the clock finished striking that the light in the cave (if you can call a gleam
like an exaggerated glowworm a light) went out, or in Jack's words "dowsed its glim." This
meant, we surmised, that the man had finished his mysterious (probably ridiculous) errand,
and could now get along with no lamp but the moon. There was a faint rustle, rustle among the
bushes which discreetly veiled the opening, and from behind them came a man. For a second or
two he stood up straight as if he were stretching himself and taking a full breath. The moon
shone behind him, outlining his figure; and, Mercédes, if you were here I would bet anything
you couldn't guess who it was. As it is I can't hope to win money from you. I must just tell
you, and have done with it!

The man was Peter Storm.

We recognized him in time for Jack not to give that challenge we had planned. Whether J. decided
not to give it because the man was Peter, or because he was dumbfounded, I didn't know then,
but he told me afterward that he instantly decided to keep still for Peter's sake. He knew,
of course, whatever Peter was up to there was nothing mean or underhand about it, and as it
was evidently meant for a secret expedition it would annoy Peter to be caught. I had exactly
the same impression myself; and Pat said later that she would have "cr-r-umpled all up" if
Jack had called out.

We hardly breathed while Peter was getting into his boat and untying the painter that had moored
it to a bush. Even then we had to wait before coming back to life, for he sat still a minute
or two, with his hands on the sculls, and looked our way, as if he were gazing at us. Of course
we knew we were safely concealed from sight, and that he was only staring past trees and shrubbery
at the dark, distant house. From that point of view there wasn't a twinkle of light to be seen
through a blind; and if Jack and I hadn't taken the unusual whim into our heads to motor over
from home, Patty would have been in bed and perhaps fast asleep for an hour.

I never realized before how hard it is, with the best intentions, to keep utterly, absolutely
still: except once when I was a little girl and a nurse I had took me to a Quaker meeting.
It was a silent one. I thought something awful would be done to me if I moved; and I tell you
I could hear my ribs creak when I breathed! So I could again now, huddled behind the tree.
And I thought I could hear Patty's hair curl.

When Peter had rowed away, and he and his boat had disappeared round the Point, we all three
drew a deep sigh of relief. Then we looked at each other.

"Jiminy Christmas!" said I.

"Exactly!" said Jack.

Only Pat said nothing. Then she clasped her hands on an inspiration. "Do you know what I think?"
she exclaimed. "Yes--it must be that! There is nothing else which can explain. Mr. Storm is
ver-ry sorry for us, Larry and me, because once more we are in ruin. Not even Marcel can do
us good now! But if it were true about the tr-reasure of the Captain Kidd, it would be ours.
It would save me from--I mean, it would save us from all the trouble we are in. Don't you see,
Molly and Jack, that is it? He went into the cave to search. If he would find the tr-reasure,
he would tell us we were rich."

While she was talking, explaining her theory, my mind worked fast. What she said put an idea
into my mind. It was different from her idea, because I had a clue--when I came to think of
it--that she didn't possess. As it turned out, Jack's brain was working in the same direction
as mine, at the same moment. I guessed this, before he told me, from what he said in answer to Pat.

"Perhaps you're right," he told her. "I'm afraid Storm must have been disappointed, though,
if he was looking for Captain Kidd's treasure to give you. He came out with empty hands. Maybe,
though, now you've got the inspiration you'll be more lucky, you and your father. I agree with
Caspian on this subject: you'd better not invite too many people to your treasure-hunting bee.
In fact, I think it had better confine itself to members of the family."

"No use," sighed Pat. "There's not a hole nor a corner of that cave I didn't search like a
needle for a haystack--I mean the othaire way round--when I was petite."

"Do you give me leave to explore?" asked Jack.

"Yes, indeed," said Pat. Yet I thought she hesitated before she spoke. "When will you like to go?"

"I must dress for the job, I suppose," said Jack. "Shall we say to-morrow at ten o'clock in
the morning, with you and Molly and nobody else in a stage box to watch the performance?"

Pat agreed, laughing, yet there was something peculiar--an arriere pensée--in her laugh. She
had suddenly become absent-minded--or else she was sleepy; and I reminded Jack that it was
growing late. We took the girl back to the house, into which she disappeared with a dreamy,
"la Somnambula" air; and for once I was glad to see the last of the dear child. I was dying
to talk to Jack. But I'm not going to inflict our discussion upon you. Instead, I'll tell you
what happened in the morning (that's to-day!). We got up early and Jack sported a shocking
old suit of knickerbockers, just right for an up-to-date cave man. You see, he really meant
to keep his engagement. If he found anything, as he thought quite probable, it would bear out
his theory and save unsuspecting Peter the trouble of working the Moore family up to an interest
in the cave. We were just attacking our coffee and rolls, however, at eight-thirty, when Pat
appeared, hovering at the end of the vine covered pergola which we use for a breakfast-room.

"Come to remind me of my promise?" laughed Jack, jumping up. But as she drifted slowly in,
we saw that, whatever her errand might be, for her it was no laughing matter.

"I have to confess a thing to you both," she said. "I have been in the cave. Even before you
went away, I made up my mind I would go in. I did not sleep too much. I got up when it was
light. I put on a bad dress. I slid down the bank like when I was a little one. I creeped into
the cave, with a candle, the way I used to do. It is not distant to the end, where one can
squeeze. I looked all over, everywhere, as always when I was small. I remembered a hole far
at the back--not a big hole--where I used to put pretty pebbles and play I was Captain Kidd
with my pockets full of diamonds. The hole was there, but stuffed up with stones. I pulled
them all out. And behind I saw a box--a queer old oak box. But oh, Molly, I have seen that
box before, it was only a few days ago!"

"Not possible!" I cried, anxious to defend poor Peter and his quixotic plot.

"You would say not. Yet it is so. I saw the box--or its twin box--at that dear old Robinson
house which is made into a curiosity shop at Bennington."

"You must have been dreaming," said Jack, backing me up.

"No. I saw it. But Mr. Storm did not know I saw it, because he did think I was not in the room
where it was. He thought I was always with Mr. Caspian. And so I was, except for a minute.
I went to look for you, in a back room. You were not there. You must have gone upstairs----"

"I did, to see a table Miss Robinson spoke of," I admitted.

"Only Mr. Storm was in the back room. He had in his hand the box, with a large date carved
in the wood. If he bought it I am not sure, for I went away quickly when I saw he was alone.
And after, there was nothing in his hand. But maybe when he wanted an old box with a date of
1669--yes, that particular date of all others!--he remembered, and went back to Bennington--or
sent."

"Good gracious, but why a box of that 'particular' date?" I wanted to know. Which was stupid
of me. I ought to have recalled at once the fact that Captain Kidd was supposed to be burying
treasure in 1669.

"It was the year of Captain Kidd!" Pat reminded me; and went on, as if in desperation: "In
the hole of our cave, to-day, was that box, from Miss Robinson's house in Bennington. There
was no lock to it; and I suppose Mr. Storm could not wait to have one made. He was in a hurry.
I understand why, but I cannot tell you that. All I can tell is, it was there. I pulled it
out from the hole--it was not so heavy!--and not more than thirty centimetres long. Inside
was sand, and mixed up with the sand many, many jewels--oh, a fortune in jewels. I know, because
I took the box to my room--nobody was up, so no one saw me. I spread on the floor a bed-coverlet
and poured out the sand on it. Then I could count the beautiful stones without the fear they
would roll away. There are a hundred pearls, oh, but large ones, big as peas; and some rubies,
and diamonds in the dozen--emeralds, too. I do not know too much of such things, but they must
all have cost ten, twenty, or maybe more thousands of dollars."

As she finished, breathless, Pat looked from one to the other of us. And Jack and I dared not
look at each other, or our eyes would have said, "Told you so!"

"He put these things to make us rich, where we would think they were ours," the girl went on.
"It was noble. He would never have confessed--never let us know what we owed to him. If you
and me had not seen him last night--and if I had not known the box--we should have believed.
We should have sold the jewels and paid our debts. And I--but what use to think of what I could
have done? What I must do, is to tell him I know--yes, the minute he comes back to our house.
It will be to-day, for now we can guess what has kept him so busy. He has somehow got these
jewels--not set, so they may seem to be very old. But how--how did he get them--a poor man
like him?"

"However he got them, it's all right," Jack soothed her.

"I am sure!" she said proudly. "He was to try and find money. He told me that at Bretton Woods.
He finds it. But he does not keep. He gives it to me, like this! Of course it does no good.
Of course I cannot take. I wish I could see him here at this house, with you to help me talk
of last night."

Well, so it was arranged, according to her wish: that we should send over to his "diggings,"
as he calls them, and see if Peter had arrived. The car was despatched with the chauffeur and
a hasty note from me; and Patty waited with us for news. But there was no news. Mr. Storm had
not come, and his landlady, the village dressmaker, knew nothing of his movements.

There, my dear, I must leave my story. About this episode you now know as much as I do, or
any of us. But doesn't it make you love Peter? When he told me his secret, he never breathed
a word of this intention.

If only one chance in a million hadn't placed his best girl and two of his best friends within
spying distance, the poor fellow's plan would have been a brilliant success. No doubt his idea
was to propose (as if jokingly) to Larry a search for Captain Kidd's alleged treasure, to replenish
the family fortunes after the fire. They would have been indebted to no one for what the cave
might yield. A rich Larry and Patty could have arisen like a pair of phoenixes hand in hand
from their own ashes, and flown high above Caspian and Shuster level!

The thing is now to let Peter know his plan has failed before he begins talking about buried
treasure. We must manage it somehow. By the pricking in my thumbs, I feel he'll come this afternoon!
And luckily, if all is well, the treasure troving won't be his only errand.

To-morrow I shall perhaps be able to let you into the whole secret. If he but realizes that
time is the great object now!

       Your                                          MOLLY IN SUSPENSE.

P. S. I do think it was fun about the box from Miss Robinson's, don't you?

XXXIII

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                                             Awepesha.

DEAREST:

I believe that, next to the day Jack proposed to me at Taormina, and the day we were married
in London, this has been the most exciting day of my life. I expected excitement, but nothing
to what we have had!

I wrote you yesterday morning, after Pat went home to the boxful of sand and jewels which not
even Larry was to know about. The note I wrote to Peter Storm had been left at his lodgings,
so when he returned he would know that he was wanted at our house. The trouble was, we had
no idea when he would return; and that poor child Pat was trembling in her extremely high-heeled
shoes (she never wears boots to tremble in) lest Caspian should reappear upon the scene. I
hardly dared hope that the letter Jack had sent to Mr. Strickland's office would reach Peter;
but it was that which did the trick. Mr. Strickland was the lawyer he had been consulting about
his complicated affairs, and when the note arrived, Mr. S. knew where to send it. No sooner
was it read, than Peter bolted from New York to Long Island, and had the happy thought of coming
to see us, to pick up the latest news from the front. I was so pleased to see him walk in,
I could almost have kissed him! But I didn't stop to talk long. I ordered Hiawatha, and dashed
off to fetch Pat. I was afraid if I merely sent for her, something might happen to keep the
girl at home, or Caspian might have turned up, and insist on coming with her.

As it happened, I wasn't far wrong. Caspian had indeed turned up, bringing a strange man with
him, and both were closeted with Larry. I whisked Pat away before she could be called into
the council chamber. The poor child insisted on carrying the "Captain Kidd" box, wrapped in
a silk tablecloth from Como! She wanted to place it in the hands of its owner and donor without
delay, and Peter and she were to be given some moments alone together, Jack having prepared
the mind of P. S. meanwhile.

The two men were in the library when I opened the door and walked in upon them. Jack had finished
telling the tale of the night, and I felt pity as well as affection for Peter. He doesn't show
his emotions easily, but I could see that he was pained and humiliated by the failure of his
romantic scheme. I said not a word to him about it, but mentioned that Patsey was in my boudoir.
"I think she has something to say to you," I added.

"I'll go to her at once, if I may!" he exclaimed.

"You not only may but must," I enjoined; then stopped him at the door. "I hope you're ready
to tell her everything now?"

"I'm ready, yes," he answered promptly. "But is it the best time----"

"It's the only time there is!" I cut him short.

"She's right," Jack backed me up.

"Very well," said Peter. "If you both say it's the supreme moment, it is. But I shall have
to go through with what she's got for me first."

With that, he went out and shut the door. And I confess to you, Mercédes, I should have liked
to be a fly on the wall in my boudoir during the scene between those two. A fly has no conscientious
scruples against eavesdropping, which is fortunate for it, as nature has equipped it so well
for indulgence in that pursuit. As I couldn't be a fly on a ceiling, looking at Peter and Pat
upside down, I went and sat on Jack's lap.

"Dearest," said I, "you tell me what you'd say if you were Peter, and I'll tell you what I'd
say if I were Pat."

"I wouldn't say anything," replied Jack without an instant's hesitation. "I should just take
you in my arms, and hug you hard. I should also kiss you. And one kiss leads to another, you know."

"I do know," I admitted. "By experience. You taught me that. It's one of the lessons of life."

"I'll bet Patricia Moore is learning it at this instant," Jack remarked thoughtfully. And we
kissed each other in sheer vividness of imagination.

"But she's still engaged to Ed Caspian," I reminded him.

"Damn Caspian!" said Jack; and then jumped, staring at something over the back of my head.

I bounded off his lap as if a Jack Johnson had exploded at my feet. Wheeling round to stare
where he stared, I saw the most deadly reputable of my dear late cousin's servants ushering
into the room the person apostrophized. Behind that person followed one I had never seen before.
Behind both lurked Larry Moore, for once in his life ill at ease; and by his side, urging him
in, was Mrs. Shuster.

"How do you do?" I exclaimed, trying to look as if I had never seen Jack's knee, and feeling
as if my toes were blushing.

What Jack did I don't know; but I suspect he put on a nonchalant air of "Well, we are married,
anyhow!"

"I'm sorry to interrupt a conversation evidently not meant for my ear," began Caspian. (Trust
him always to do and say the wrong thing!) "But I understand Mrs. Winston called at Kidd's
Pines and took Miss Moore away at a moment when both I and her father wanted her particularly.
That being the case, I thought I had better come here and let her kind host and hostess learn
the news at the same time."

"Meaning us?" I inquired, feeling dangerous.

"Meaning you and Captain Winston. The news will interest you both. It is about two dear friends
of yours, Marcel Moncourt and--his son."

"We've never had the pleasure of meeting Marcel Moncourt Junior," said Jack.

"Oh, yes, you have, begging your pardon," said Ed. "Only you know him by another name. By the
way, may I ask, before I go further, where is Patricia?"

"Pat's in my boudoir," I informed him airily. "She's engaged just now, talking to Mr. Storm.
He----"

"Is the person I referred to a moment ago," Caspian sliced my sentence in two. "Marcel Moncourt
Junior has good reason for taking an alias. It was known to everybody who knew him and his
father that he was a wastrel, if not worse. Marcel Senior was a fool about him--brought him
up like a prince, and suffered the consequences. The boy spent money like water, and was hauled
out of one scrape only to fall into another. Then came the time of my cousin old Justin Stanislaws'
death. It happened under strange circumstances; there was suggestion of foul play. Young Marcel
was in the house at the time--had arrived secretly. I know that certain jewels disappeared
mysteriously--couldn't be found afterward--jewels that Stanislaws always kept near him because
of certain associations. Not only did they disappear, but young Marcel disappeared, too--whether
with or without them was never proved. Stanislaws' son was alive then and protected the fellow:
they'd been friends as boys. No inquiry was made till I became the heir. Then it was too late.
Marcel Junior had gone abroad and couldn't be located. It was then it came to my knowledge
that suspicion pointed to young Marcel not only as a thief but as a murderer----"

"Oh, come, sir, that's going a bit too far!" ventured the mean-looking little man who had come
in with Caspian, and who had been growing more and more restless as Ed piled up his accusations.

"Why, too far, when you told me yourself that one of his handkerchiefs was found in my cousin's
room the morning after the murder?"

"Well, you see, sir, there was never anything more than gossip to say it was a murder," persisted
the little man. Turning anxiously to Jack, he hurried to explain himself. "I was valet to the
old gentleman at the time of his death," he announced. "I'm an Englishman, as I think you are,
sir. My name's Thomas Dawson. I've been living in Chicago and other cities of the Middle West
since young Mr. Stanislaws (who was drowned later) paid me off and let me go. This gentleman,
the heir to the estates, has had me looked up by a detective agency. I came to New York willing
enough; but I didn't come to accuse no one of murder, whether I have any cause to remember
them kindly or not!"

"You're not asked to accuse any one, you're asked to identify a man you know," snapped Caspian.
He, too, turned to Jack. "It's very annoying as things have turned out, that Moncourt Senior
didn't stop on at Kidd's Pines after the fire instead of going to New York. He ought to be
here now, so we could confront him with----"

"Really, Caspian, I think 'confront' isn't the word to use in such a tone and in connection
with our Marcel," Jack admonished him.

"What, not the word when he has passed off his wretched son upon us as a stranger, and let
the fellow take a confidential situation with a rich woman like Mrs. Shuster? She might have
suffered the same fate as my poor cousin. There's no excuse for such conduct. It's not weakness
but wickedness. The whole mystery of Marcel's taking up the job at Kidd's Pines is explained
by this impudent trick----"

"Hardly explained," objected Jack. "You haven't proved your point yet."

"What point haven't I proved?"

"That Mr. Storm is really Marcel Moncourt Junior."

"We came here to prove it, before every one concerned," blustered Ed. "All I ask is to have
him brought in."

"He'll bring himself very willingly!" I couldn't resist sticking in my oar. "And Pat with him."

"I'll fetch my fiancée myself, if you please, Mrs. Winston," said Caspian, at his most caddish.

I didn't intend to let him do that, but I was saved the trouble of a dispute by the door opening
and Pat and Peter walking in, as if they had been hypnotically summoned. They hadn't heard
the visitors' arrival, but had evidently expected to find Jack and me alone. I saw by a glance
at Pat's face that the interview had made some call upon her emotions; but I didn't think she
looked wild enough to have heard the whole secret. Besides, they'd hardly been away long enough
for all that--and the other things Jack and I had so vividly imagined. They both paused for
a second at the door, and Pat had the air of wishing she were somewhere else. She braced herself
up, however, for a scene, and marched in with her head up--Peter Storm by her side. I saw Peter's
eyes pick out the little man Thomas Dawson, whom Caspian pushed slightly forward. Peter was
surprised, no doubt of that, but he seemed also amused, as if his quick mind had grasped the
situation. His look travelled to Jack's face and mine. He smiled at us. Then, "Hello, Dawson!"
said he.

"Good lord, sir!" gasped Dawson, turning green, and losing power over his knees. He grabbed
at Caspian for support, was haughtily pushed away, and tumbled into a chair, like a jelly out
of its mould. As it chanced, the chair was a rocking-chair, and the conjunction was undignified.

"What's the matter?" Ed questioned sharply. "Why don't you speak up? Is this man's name Marcel
Moncourt?"

"No, sir, it's Stanislaws. He's--he's the young master--or else he's a ghost."

       *       *       *       *       *

There, my dear, the Secret's out! Perhaps, if you've been able to keep track of Caspian's antecedents
as described in my letters, you've guessed it already. But in case you haven't attached much
importance to that part of the affair, I'll just remind you that Ed Caspian was lifted out
of the ranks of his fellow socialists and capital haters, by becoming a capitalist himself,
on the death of two distant cousins, Stanislaws' father and Stanislaws' son, tremendous millionaires.
The old man died some time before the young one, who disappeared with the Lusitania and was
reported drowned. You can imagine the effect on Ed when, instead of crushing the enemy, he
found himself crushed. He turned tallow-white, glaring at Dawson, staring at Storm, and stammered
out: "I don't believe you! It's a lie!"

"No, Caspian, it's not a lie," said Peter Storm, whom Jack and I have known since Wenham as
Pietro Stanislaws. He spoke almost gently. "I meant to stay dead--not for your sake, but for
my own. The only fun I'd ever got out of life was from knocking round the world with just enough
money to put bread in my mouth and clothes on my back. My father never saw you, and never wanted
to see you. He had reason to dislike socialists. I never saw you, and wanted to still less.
I thought you would be a bore. But I respected what I heard of you. People told me you were
sincere. They said your aim in life was to benefit your fellowman. You were a hard worker.
You seemed to have every virtue. I thought you'd do more good with my father's money than I
ever should, if I shouldered the responsibility. I was always a socialist at heart--but I was
selfish. I'd hated the conventional life my father wanted me to live, and I'd kicked against
the pricks. I came back to consciousness after that adventure on the Lusitania, and found that
no one knew who I was. I'd babbled Russian when I was delirious! The next thing I learned,
was that Pietro Stanislaws was drowned. I couldn't resist the big temptation to let him sleep
under the sea. I'd happened to know something about a chap named Peter Sturm or Storm in the
third class of the Lusitania. He hadn't turned up afterward, so I thought--as I'd done him
a small kindness--he wouldn't grudge me his name. I felt at home with the name of Peter. So
that's how it came about. And no matter what my own feelings might have been--no matter how
much I might for any reason have wanted to change my mind--I wouldn't have gone back on my
resolution if it hadn't been for your own conduct."

"I don't know what you mean!" Caspian choked. "I don't believe----"

"I think you do believe," Peter caught him up (I can't remember his precise words of course;
but I give you the sense of them). "And if you'll reflect you must pretty well understand my
meaning. What kind of a steward have you been of the great enterests intrusted to you? Have
you done one person except yourself any good? No! The moment your circumstances changed, your
nature changed to fit them; or, rather, you let your real nature have its way when you'd nothing
more to gain by posing. You've not only thrown away my father's money--my money--on every sort
of extravagance: you've been actually vicious. My lawyer James Strickland was the only person
on earth, except Marcel Moncourt Senior, who knew that I hadn't gone down with the Lusitania.
Marcel didn't know till I came back to New York, recalled by Strickland's accounts of your
behaviour. Then I got Strickland to break the news to Marcel--for a purpose. I wanted a favour
from him. I wanted him to help Laurence Moore. But even then you would have been safe from
me, Caspian, if you'd shown yourself any sort of a man. I began a letter about you to Strickland
on the ship coming home. It blew away, and so did some of my plans concerning you. It was Fate!
But this isn't revenge for your petty persecutions of Storm! I hope I'm not little enough to
take vengeance. I saw you weren't fit for the place I had given you. Seeing that, I decided
that Pietro Stanislaws had a right to come back from the grave. But don't imagine that I intend
to throw you out on the world with empty pockets. That would be unfair, after the way I've
let you live. I was the owner of the Stanislaws house, as it's called. Strickland arranged
the business for me; and at my wish he offered it to you, Caspian. You bought: now you can
sell to me again at a profit; and you'll owe me no thanks for any favour, which is my reason
for wanting such a deal. Talk to my lawyer. He'll be expecting you to call."

"You'll have to prove that you're Pietro Stanislaws!" Caspian still weakly protested. "The
story doesn't ring true to me. You may be taking advantage of some resemblance. You may be
another Tichborne claimant. Why, now I think of it, I always heard there was a likeness between
young Moncourt and young Stanislaws--that Moncourt did all he could to cultivate it!"

"Well, of that you can judge to-day," said Peter, keeping his temper. "Thanks to Miss Moore,
Marcel Senior and I learned where Marcel Junior was hanging out. Marcel Senior has thought
for a while that he had some cause to be grateful to me: that's why he stepped into the breach
at my request, at Kidd's Pines. And I wanted him to do it--for one reason--because when I was
a boy of thirteen or fourteen Mrs. Moore was very good to me. I was at a school on Long Island.
I ran away, as I generally did: stole a ride on a freight train--fell off, got hurt, was seen
by Mrs. Moore as she was driving with her little daughter, and instead of letting me be taken
to hospital she brought me home to her house. I'm not sure if her husband approved. All the
same he allowed me to stay and get well. It wasn't till I was able to get about that I told
them who I was. But all that's an aside! It explains why I wanted to do a decent turn to Kidd's
Pines if I could. Miss Moore mentioned to me when we were spending a few days at the Stanislaws
house some weeks ago that a young man named Marcel de Moncourt was visiting friends of hers
in France, and claiming to be their cousin. Well, that was a true claim, as Marcel Senior informed
me. He himself came to America when he was young, to make his fortune, and dropped the "de"
out of his name. He says he'd been rather a black sheep, and didn't deserve to be identified
with his family. We had a powwow, he and I, about young Marcel. There was, and is, nothing
against him in the matter of my father's death. I won't go into that question at the moment,
but I can show good cause for protecting him then, and protecting him now. When we communicated
with Marcel in France, where he'd arrived from the Argentine he decided to sail at once for
this side, with his cousins the Marquise de Moncourt and her daughter Adrienne, to whom he
is engaged. I've just been telling Miss Moore that her best friends--present company excepted"--(Peter
smiled at Jack and me) "that her best friends arrived this morning, from Bordeaux to New York,
where Marcel Senior met them and his son at the dock. He meant to escort them to Kidd's Pines;
and they may arrive there at any minute. When the Marquise and her daughter find that Mr. and
Miss Moore are here, perhaps they'll let Marcel bring them on."

I glanced at Larry. (From hints Pat had innocently let drop, I was sure the Marquise had been
in love with Larry for years: that she'd kept Pat under her thumb in France, hoping to keep
Larry, too. It occurred to me that things said by the girl in letters to Adrienne--things about
Mrs. Shuster, or Idonia, or both--had probably brought the Marquise flying to the rescue. Or
else, that unspeakable maid of Pat's--Angéle--was engaged by the Marquise to let her know what
was "doing" at Kidd's Pines.) Larry's face was a study! Not a study of "detected guilt." Nothing
like that. He looked sheepish, yet relieved. I read in his beautiful eyes of a boy, "Hurray!
I bet she'll somehow rescue me from Shuster yet!"

I should have bet the same, if there'd been any one to bet with, but there wasn't--unless Mrs.
Shuster herself. And she didn't yet realize what the advent of the Frenchwoman might mean for
her future. She was beginning to recover from the shock of Caspian's fall, and to preen herself
because she was about to meet a real, live Marquise.

She had only a few minutes to wait, for Peter's prophecy came true. The great Marcel did bring
the Marquise and Adrienne on, by their urgent request, to Awepesha. Pat, it seems, had written
so much about Jack and me, they almost felt as if they knew us! And young Marcel, already assured
that he'd nothing to fear in America, was with his father and the ladies. (I'll tell you presently
the story of old Justin Stanislaws' death and young Marcel's connection with it: but I'd never
heard it properly myself when the Moncourt party arrived. You see Marcel didn't come much into
Peter Storm's "Secret," as he'd confessed it to me.)

There was hardly time to wonder what the Marquise and young Marcel would be like (and Adrienne)
when the visitors were announced by our bewildered butler. If you have felt any sympathy for
Larry you'll be glad to hear that the Marquise is a Charmer from Charmerville. How Larry ever
resisted her all these years I can't think, unless he valued his freedom beyond the lure of
woman, and refrained from going to France for fear of striking his colours. She's the Frenchiest
creature you ever saw: you know, the fascinating kind with magnolia-white skin, languishing
eyes, black hair worn over the ears, red lips, and any age you like between twenty-eight and
forty-five. Adrienne, compared to her mother, is a mere lump. But she has fine eyes and a bright
smile, and Pat loves her, so she must be nice.

As for Marcel Junior, he really does look a little like Peter; a sort of a Christmas-card resemblance
to a strong type. He's really engaged to Adrienne, it appears, and is an entirely reformed
character; but I expect that the ménage will be mostly enriched by Marcel Père--and Peter.

I hope you are dying to know how Pat took Peter Storm's transformation into Pietro Stanislaws.
But I'm going to save that bit for the last. I must explain to you some of the things Peter
explained to me at Aunt Mary's, and other things I've learned since, else you won't be able
to understand him as we do.

That running-away-from-school affair was characteristic, but not as anarchic as it sounds.
His father, Justin Stanislaws, was Polish in ancestry but American by birth. He got to know
Marcel Moncourt Senior soon after Marcel's bolt from France to New York. They both married
Italian girls, who were beautiful and intimate friends. The father of Stanislaws' love was
rich, and lived in terror of the "Black Hand." Stanislaws won her by saving the life of his
father-in-law elect; and that was the starting-point of his great fortune. Once he had the
nucleus, his genius for making money began to pile dollars up by the million. Marcel hadn't
"found" himself yet. Stanislaws lost sight of him for years; but after Pietro's mother died,
Marcel appeared again, also a widower, with one little boy. He was as poor as Stanislaws was
rich. Yet he felt in himself the quality to supply the millionaire with something money had
failed to give: social success. He explained his ideas; Stanislaws had the sense to see that
they were good. Marcel "took him on," so to speak, organized his establishment, arranged magnificent
and original entertainments; got him known and sought for by the right "set," and so, each
man "made" the other.

Marcel started out on his new career with a thumping salary; Stanislaws advised investments
and speculations. Marcel began to grow rich as well as famous, and might have been happy but
for his son. Marcel Junior was a "caution!" From his early boyhood he was always falling into
trouble, and having to be helped out by his adoring father or the indulgent Stanislaws, who
seemed for a while to care more for young Marcel Moncourt than for his own high-spirited and
independent Pietro. But at last he grew tired of the constant calls upon his generosity, and
relations became strained.

By this time both the boys were grown up. Pietro's greatest joy was wandering over the world
like a gypsy or a tramp, or anything but a "tourist." When his father's health failed he was
summoned back from a glorious adventure in Russia, and expected to "settle down." He couldn't
bear to disappoint the old man, and did his best to live up to expectations; but he was like
a young lion caught in the Libyan Desert and shut in a gilded cage. The people his father wanted
him to entertain bored him to tears. He saw that they valued Justin and Pietro Stanislaws for
what could be got out of them: invitations, dinners, financial "tips," tours en automobile;
and there was no reward for which Peter cared. "Our houses were practically hotels," he said
to me, "and our hearts were utilized as snake hospitals. I might as well have been a chauffeur
for all the choice of guests or destination I had when I drove my father's friends in our cars.
I never did anything I wanted to do, and I never got any gratitude for doing what they wanted
me to do. I might as well have been a goldfish, swimming round and round in the same globe,
month after month, year after year. It wasn't my job! Nature hadn't made me for a fat, tame
life. But young Marcel wasn't as much use as an understudy for a dutiful son as I'd once hoped.
So I made up my mind to stick it while father lived and wanted me."

I don't know just how long Peter was in the "treadmill"--as he called it: two years, perhaps,
then came Justin Stanislaws' sudden death. The old man was found by his valet one morning,
lying dead on the marble floor of his gorgeous bedroom, with a wound at the back of his head,
and a handkerchief marked "M.M." clutched in his hand. The wall safe where he kept his most
precious treasures--photographs of his dead wife, her letters, and the favourite jewels which
she had left for "Pietro's bride"--was open, the key was still in the lock, and the steel box
containing the jewels had disappeared. Young Marcel Moncourt had also disappeared; and this
was serious, because he had come to visit his father and had vainly begged for the loan of
five thousand dollars from Justin Stanislaws.

You will wonder when you read this why Peter didn't set the police on Marcel's track, instead
of doing all he could not only to protect him but to upset the theory of murder. But you see,
in spite of the circumstantial evidence, Peter didn't believe that his father had been killed
by Marcel or any one. The doctors said that the wound at the back of the head could quite well
be the result of the fall; and that death might have been caused by heart failure. As for the
handkerchief, Marcel Senior assured Peter that he and young Marcel used the same monogram:
also that more than once his handkerchiefs and Justin Stanislaws' had been mixed together by
the laundress, as they were of exactly the same size and quality, differing only in initials.
He pleaded that the handkerchief was no clue, and no proof of a crime. He argued that the old
man was a poor sleeper, and often unlocked the safe in the night, to look over the beloved
letters and photographs. For that purpose he kept his bunch of keys under his pillow; and as
for the absence of the jewels, that proved nothing because he--Marcel Senior--had himself warned
Stanislaws that it was imprudent to have them there. Several other hiding-places, more secure
and more secret, existed in the house; and some day, it was his opinion, the steel box might
eventually be found in one of them, placed there by Stanislaws.

Peter listened, and pitied, and his own heart spoke for both Marcels. He decided to give his
old playmate the benefit of the doubt, and you know already from what I've told you about Peter
that, when he makes up his mind to do a thing, he does it thoroughly. The story that Justin
Stanislaws had been murdered was denied, and scorn was poured upon it by the family. It survived
only among sensation mongers and gossip lovers--like Caspian--who always believe the worst
of every one and everything. Marcel Senior was grateful beyond words, but he was conscientious,
too. Months passed with no word from his son (this was no new experience!), then a letter came
from the Argentine.

"I'm doing well here," wrote Marcel Junior. "You won't have to worry about me in future. I
know I've been a fool; but for once and for all I've had my lesson." And he went on to tell
what the lesson was. "I was half crazy when you and old Stanislaws refused to let me have five
thousand dollars," he said. "The scrape I'd got into was worse than I'd told you. I was at
my wits' ends for money, and I dreamed about the safe in Stanislaws' wall. I knew what he kept
there. He often showed Pietro and me the jewels. I dreamed that I went into his room, took
the keys from under the pillow, and opened the safe. Then a noise woke me up. The dream was
true. I waked standing at the open safe with the steel box in my hand. The noise that brought
me to myself was Stanislaws falling on the marble floor. You know I've been a sleep walker
all my life. But I realized in a second how hard it would be to prove myself innocent, whether
Stanislaws lived or died. I thought my one chance was to be off before morning. I swear I didn't
mean to steal the jewels. But the first thing I knew, I was out in the hall with the box in
my hand, and I dared not go back!"

Marcel Junior went on to say that to his surprise the jewel-case wasn't locked. Because he
had no money to get away with, he took out a diamond ring. The box, with the rest of its contents
intact, he buried in the garden. In the hiding-place described it was found by Marcel Senior
who carried it, with the letter, to Pietro.

It was soon after this that Peter finished settling up his father's affairs with the help of
James Strickland, and sailed for England in the Lusitania, meaning to take a long holiday after
his strenuous years as a budding millionaire. The recovered jewels he left in Strickland's
care. And now you will have guessed, Mercédes, whence came those pearls, diamonds, rubies,
and emeralds requisitioned for Miss Robinson's box with its convenient date of 1669! All that
had to be done was to unstring the pearls and unset the stones, and they might be supposed
to date from one century as well as another.

Now have I made everything clear, I wonder, up to the time when the Lusitania went down and
Pietro Stanislaws was reborn as Peter Storm? Oh, but one thing I forgot! You remember I wrote
about the Russian Military Attaché from Washington, who recognized Peter and was mesmerically
suppressed by him at New London? There was no great mystery after all. They'd known each other
in Russia, so you may imagine it was a shock to the Prince, seeing his dead friend suddenly
walk into the hotel. That was a bad moment for Peter! He wanted to declare his identity when
the time came, not to have it given away; so he pounced on the man and whispered, "Girl in
the case. I'll explain." Which he did later and in private.

Now we come back at last to Pat: "the girl in the case!" But you haven't let yourself worry
about her, have you, Mercédes?

Even I didn't worry much. From the moment she and Peter retired into my boudoir to "talk things
over," and Jack and I sat supplying details out of our imagination, I knew that whatever happened
all would be well. For that I trusted Peter.

If Ed Caspian had fallen from his high estate through no fault of his own, and could have posed
as a martyr, Pat might have thought it her duty to be loyal. Even so she could never have said,
"I will," when invited to take him for better or worse. As it was, Caspian could pose as nothing
but a pig! He had given himself away, all along the line. And he was not to go pathetically
out into the world alone as a pauper. He would have more money than he'd ever dreamed of until
after the Lusitania tragedy. He would at worst be able to fight with Senator Collinge over
the hand (and purse) of his dear old friend Mrs. Shuster, if Larry escaped her! The only difficulties
I foresaw concerned the pawned engagement ring and Larry's debts to Lily. As to these I boldly
decided that if worst came to worst I would betray my trust and tell Peter everything.

You will see, however, that my conscience was saved, and by Caspian.

Pat, of course, was petrified at seeing Peter Storm turn into Pietro Stanislaws. She listened
dumbly to Peter's indictment of Caspian; and then, before she found time or words to speak,
the little wretch turned to snap at her like a trapped jackal.

"You'll throw me over now!" he sneered. "That goes without telling. Rats desert a sinking ship.
But--what do you mean to do about my ring? Maybe you thought I didn't know. Ask Mrs. Shuster!
Angéle told her. I guess Mrs. Shuster's money and my ring have gone the same way!"

That was too much for Larry. "You'd better go after your d--d ring, then!" said he, looking
like a handsome, angry schoolboy. "I can give you the pawn-ticket; and I bet Peter Storm--or
Stanislaws--will lend the money to redeem the beastly thing. As for Mrs. Shuster, we won't
bring her name into this. She and I will settle our affairs, official and unofficial, although
you seem to be so deep in her confidence. I say, Captain Winston, do you mind my telling Caspian
that the nearest way to the pawnbroker's is through your front door, and the quicker he finds
it the better?"

"I don't mind in the least your telling him that," Jack replied pleasantly.

"And I should love you to!" I added breathlessly.

This brought Pat to me. "Oh, Molly!" she said.

"Oh, Patsey!" said I.

Then Peter came to us. "Oh, Peter!" said we both.

Somehow, I found that in his right hand was a hand of mine, and in his left (nearest the heart)
was one of Patty's. "It's all right," he said. "It ends by my getting the treasure of Kidd's
Pines."

"Well, I do think you've earned it!" I exclaimed. "If it were mine to give I'd give it with
my blessing."

"I owe it largely to you--you and your Lightning Conductor." It was to me Peter spoke; but
he looked at Pat, "I don't know what I should have done without you."

That was nice of him, wasn't it? I love praise, even when I don't deserve it. We have taken
an interest, if we've done nothing more. And so have you, my kind Mercédes. Peter and Pat,
and you and Monty, and Jack and I, are Perfect Dears, if I do say it myself. And I know those
two are going to be as happy as we are.

I wish you could both be at the wedding. It will have to be soon, if Jack and I are to throw
rice and slippers.

                          Ever your loving old

                                                                 MOLLY.

                                THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

The page numbers of illustrations have been changed to reflect the new positions, and are now
indicated in the illustration list by 'Page' instead of 'Facing Page'.