"Don't interrupt me," said Carson. "Jim, this is my honest advice: get out of this rotten little
town. Go to Deadwood, or any other big, rotten town, and start in on the horse business and
something will happen worth while."

Jim's eyes glowed. It was curious how the word "horse" fascinated him. "I'll surely take the
first two moves you advise: I'll get out of this town and I'll go to Deadwood. But----" He
stopped. He didn't say it, but he had given his "wurd as a mahn" long ago that his life should
be devoted to the Church.

Little Peaches was there in a very high collar and sang, "Jerusalem the Golden," till tears
came to the eyes of the audience. As he began the third score, Colonel Waller and his staff
arrived. The old soldier's eyes gleamed as he measured the tall, straight form of the Preacher.
"Well, Jim, can't I persuade you to enlist? We need a few like you."

"Sure, I'm enlisted now," was the reply, "and going to the front; and when I am gone, don't
forget my horse."

"Ha, ha! We are not likely to," said the Colonel. "The wisest thing you ever did for yourself
was when you sold him."

As the party began to break up Hannah Higginbotham plucked Jim's sleeve and whispered: "If
John comes chasing you with a scheme, don't pay any attention to him. He'd try to talk business
if you were both swimming for your lives; but a week from now, we'll come to see you at Deadwood.
I've fixed it up with Belle."

As Jim waited for Belle, who was having a few last words with Mrs. Jebb, Charlie Bylow came
rather shyly forward with his wife. "Mr. Hartigan, I've got a good team now; in case there
is any moving to do, I'd like to do it for you." And then as if he thought Jim might not understand
he said: "We owe a lot to you and we'd like a chance to pay it back."

There was one old acquaintance that did not turn up. That was Lou-Jane Hoomer. Probably she
was busy packing her trunk for the visit to Rochester; at any rate, upon her return from the
East, she joined the Congregationalists, where she sang regularly in the choir and soon made
such an impression on the baritone that they found increasing comfort in each other's company.

CHAPTER XLVII

Back to Deadwood

Two days later Jim and Belle were again on the Deadwood trail. It seemed that each new chapter
of their lives must begin on that trail. They were in a new buckboard, the gift of Pa Boyd,
driving Midnight in harness. That same morning Charlie Bylow had left for Deadwood with his
team and wagon. The latter was loaded with gifts from Cedar Mountain friends, some of them
sufficiently absurd--for example, framed chromos, a parrot cage, a home instructor in Spanish,
and a self-rocking cradle--but there was also a simple sufficiency of household furniture.

The buckboard overtook the wagon in the morning and arrived at Deadwood by one o'clock. Jim
was for going to the hotel and dining, but Belle thought it better to see the estate agent
first, and within half an hour they had deposited the first month's rent for the white cottage.
Strange to tell, though the cottage had stood empty and uncalled for during the previous six
months, there were two other applications on the afternoon that the Hartigans secured their lease.

