The books of the confraternities are divisible into two classes--necrologies and libri vitae.
The former are in the shape of a calendar, in which the names are arranged according to the
days on which the deaths took place; the latter include the names of the living as well as
the dead, and were laid on the altar to aid the memory of the priest during mass. Twice a day--at
the chapter after prime and at mass--the monks assembled to listen to the recitation of the
names, singly or collectively, from the sacramentary, diptych, or book of life. The most famous
English liber vitae--that of Durham--embraces entries dating from the time of Edwin, King of
Northumbria (616-633), and was compiled, apparently, between the devastation of Lindisfarne
in 793 and the withdrawal of the monks from the island in 875. In the first handwriting there
are 3,100 names, a goodly proportion of them belonging to the seventh century. As has been
already implied, various degrees are represented in the rolls of the living and the dead--notably,
of course, benefactors, but recorded in them are bishops and abbots, princes and nobles, monks
and laymen, and often enough this is their only footprint on the sands of time. The name of
a pilgrim in the confraternity book of any abbey signifies that he was there on the day mentioned.

ECCLESIASTICAL

CHAPTER II

VOWESSES

Not wholly aloof from the subject treated in the previous chapter is the custom that prevailed
in the Middle Ages for widows to assume vows of chastity. The present topic might possibly
have been reserved for the pages devoted to domestic customs, but the recognition accorded
by the Church to a state which was neither conventual nor lay, but partook of both conditions
in equal measure, decides its position in the economy of the work. We must deal with it here.

Before discussing the custom in its historical and social relations, it will be well to advert
to the soil of thought out of which it sprang, and from which it drew strength and sustenance.
Already we have spoken of the heritage of human sentiment. Now there is ample evidence that
the indifference to the marriage of widows which marks our time did not obtain always and everywhere.
On the contrary, among widely separated races such arrangements evoked deep repugnance, as
subversive of the perfect union of man and wife, and clearly also of the civil inferiority
of females. The notion that a woman is the property of her husband, joined to a belief in the
immortality of the soul, appears to lie at the root of the dislike to second marriages--which,
according to this view, imply a degree of freedom approximating to immorality. The culmination
of duty and fidelity in life and death is seen in the immolation of Hindu widows. The Manu
prescribes no such fiery ordeal, but it states the principles leading to this display of futile
heroism: "Let her consecrate her body by living entirely on flowers, roots, and fruits. Let
her not, when her lord is deceased, ever pronounce the name of another man. A widow who slights
her deceased lord by marrying again brings disgrace on herself here below, and shall be excluded
from the seat of her lord."

A similar feeling permeated the early Church. "The argument used against the unions," says
Professor Donaldson, "was that God made husband and wife one flesh, and one flesh they remained
even after the death of one of them. If they were one flesh, how could a second woman be added
to them?" He alludes, of course, to the re-marriage of the husband, but the argument, whatever
it may be worth, applies equally to both parties. An ancient example of renunciation is afforded
by Judith, of whom it is recorded: "She was a widow now three years and six months, and she
made herself a private chamber in the upper part of the house, in which she abode shut up with
her maids and she wore hair-cloth upon her loins, and fasted all the days of her life, except
the Sabbaths and new moons, and the feasts of the house of Israel; and on festival days she
came forth in great glory, and she abode in her husband's house a hundred and five years."

An order of widows is said to have been founded or confirmed by St. Paul, who fixed the age
of admission at sixty. Simple but very striking is the epitaph inscribed on the wall of the
Vatican:

  OCTAVIÆ MATRONÆ VIDVÆ DEI.

The order of deaconesses appears to have been mainly composed of pious widows, and only those
were eligible who had had but one husband. This order came to an end in the eleventh or twelfth
century, but the vowesses, as a class, continued to subsist in England until the convulsions
of the sixteenth century, and in the Roman Church survive as a class with some modifications
in the order of Oblates, who, says Alban Butler in his life of St. Francis, "make no solemn
vows, only a promise of obedience to the mother-president, enjoy pensions, inherit estates,
and go abroad with leave." Their abbey in Rome is filled with ladies of the first rank.

The chief distinction between deaconesses and widows was the obligation imposed on the former
to accomplish certain outward works, whereas widows vowed to remain till death in a single
life, in which, like nuns, they were regarded as mystically espoused to Christ. Unlike nuns,
however, vowesses usually supported the burdens entailed by their previous marriage--superintending
the affairs of the household and interesting themselves in the welfare of their descendants.
St. Elizabeth of Hungary, though she bound herself to follow the injunctions of her confessor
and received from him a coarse habit of undyed wool, did not become a nun, but, on his advice,
retained her secular estate and ministered to the needs of the poor. But instances occur in
which vowesses retired from the world and its cares. Elfleda, niece of King Athelstan, having
resolved to pass the remainder of her days in widowhood, fixed her abode in Glastonbury Abbey;
and as late as July 23, 1527, leave was granted to the Prioress of Dartford to receive "any
well-born matron widow, of good repute, to dwell perpetually in the monastery without a habit
according to the custom of the monastery." Now and then a widow would completely embrace the
religious life, as is shown by an inscription on the brass of John Goodrington, of Appleton,
Berkshire, dated 1519, which states that his widow "toke relygyon at y^e monastery of Sion."

The position of vowesses in the eyes of the Church may be illustrated in various ways. For
example, the homilies of the Anglo-Saxon Ælfric testify to a triple division of the people
of God. "There are," says he, "three states which bear witness of Christ; that is, maidenhood,
and widowhood, and lawful matrimony." And with the quaintness of mediæval symbolists, he affirms
that the house of Cana in Galilee had three floors--the lowest occupied by believing married
laymen, the next by reputable widows, and the uppermost by virgins. Emphasis is given to the
order of comparative merit thus defined by the application to it of one of our Lord's parables,
for the first are to receive the thirty-fold, the second the sixty-fold, and the third and
highest division the hundred-fold reward. Similarly, a hymn in the Sarum Missal for the festival
of Holy Women asserts:

  Fruit thirty-fold she yielded,
     While yet a wedded wife;
  But sixty-fold she rendered,
     When in a widowed life.

And a Good Friday prayer in the same missal is introduced with the words: "Let us also pray
for all bishops, priests, deacons, sub-deacons, acolytes, exorcists, readers, door-keepers,
confessors, virgins, widows, and all the holy people of God."

In the pontifical of Bishop Lacy of Exeter may be found the office of the Benediction of a
Widow. The ceremony was performed during mass, and prefixed to the office is a rubric directing
that it shall take place on a solemn day or at least upon a Sunday. Between the epistle and
gospel the bishop, seated in his chair, turned towards the people, asked the kneeling widow
if she desired to be the spouse of Christ. Thereupon she made her profession in the vulgar
tongue, and the bishop, rising, gave her his blessing. Then followed four prayers, in one of
which the bishop blessed the habit, after which he kneeled, began the hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus,"
and at the close bestowed upon the vowess the mantle, the veil, and the ring. More prayers
were said, wherein the bishop besought God to be the widow's solace in trouble, counsel in
perplexity, defence under injury, patience in tribulation, abundance in poverty, food in fasting,
and medicine in sickness; and the rite ended with a renewed commendation of the widow to the
merciful care of God.

It is worthy of note that in these supplications mention is made of the sixty-fold reward which
the widow is to receive for her victory over her old enemy the Devil; and also, that the postulant
is believed to have made her vow with her hands joined within those of the bishop, as if swearing
allegiance.

Several witnesses were necessary on the occasion. When, for instance, the widow of Simon de
Shardlowe made her profession before the Bishop of Norwich, as she did in 1369, the deed in
which the vow was registered, and upon which she made the sign of the cross in token of consent,
was witnessed by the Archdeacon of Norwich, Sir Simon de Babingle, and William de Swinefleet.
In the same way the Earl of Warwick, the Lords Willoughby, Scales, and others, were present
at the profession of Isabella, Countess of Suffolk. This noble lady made her vow in French,
as did also Isabella Golafré, when she appeared for the purpose on Sunday, October 18, 1379,
before William of Wykeham, Bishop of Winchester. Notwithstanding the direction in Bishop Lacy's
pontifical, the vow was sometimes spoken in Latin, an instance of which is the case of "Domina
Alicia Seynt Johan de Baggenet," whose profession took place on April 9, 1398, in the chapel
of the Lord of Amberley, Sussex.

That the vow was restricted to the obligation of perpetual chastity, and in no way curtailed
the freedom and privileges which the vowess shared with other ladies, is demonstrated by the
contents of various wills, like that of Katherine of Riplingham, dated February 8, 1473. Therein
she styles herself an "advowess"; but, having forfeited none of her civil rights, she devises
estates, executes awards, and composes family differences.

Allusion has been made to the ring as the symbol of the spiritual espousal. As such it was
the object of peculiar reverence, and its destination was frequently specified in the vowess's
will. Thus in "Testamenta Vetusta" we find the abstract of the will of Alice, widow of Sir
Thomas West, dated 1395, in which the lady bequeaths "the ring with which I was spoused to
God" to her son Sir Thomas. In like manner Katherine Riplingham leaves a gold ring set with
a diamond--the ring with which she was sacred--to her daughter Alice Saint John. To some vowesses
the custody even of a son or daughter appeared unworthy of so precious a relic; and thus we
learn that Lady Joan Danvers, by her will dated 1453, gave her spousal ring to the image of
the Crucifix near the north door of St. Paul's, while Lady Margaret Davy presented hers to
the image of Our Lady of Walsingham.

In certain instances the formality of episcopal benediction was dispensed with, a simple promise
sufficing. As a case in point, John Brackenbury, by his will dated 1487, bequeathed to his
mother certain real estate subject to the condition that she did not marry again--a condition
to which she assented before the parson and parish of Thymmylbe. "If," says the testator, "she
keep not that promise, I will that she be content with that which was my father's will, which
she had every penny." But, in compacts or wills in which the married parties themselves were
interested, the vow seems to have been usually exacted. Wives sometimes engaged with their
husbands to make the vow; and the will of William Herbert, Knight, Earl of Pembroke, dated
July 27, 1469, contains an affecting reminder of duty--"And, wife, that you may remember your
promise to take the order of widowhood, so that you may be the better maistres of your owen,
to perform my will, and to help my children, as I love and trust you," etc.

Husbands left chattels to their wives provided that they took the vow of chastity. The will
of Sir Gilbert Denys, Knight, of Syston, dated 1422, sets out: "If Margaret, my wife, will
after my death vow a vow of chastity, I give her all my moveable goods, she paying my debts
and providing for my children; and if she will not vow the vow of chastity, I desire my goods
may be divided and distributed in three equal parts." On like terms wives were appointed executrices.
William Edlington, Esq., of Castle Carlton, in his will dated June 11, 1466, declares: "I make
Christian, my wife, my sole executor on this condition, that she take the mantle soon after
my decease; and in case she will not take the mantle and the ring, I will that William my son
[and other persons named] be my executors, and she to have a third part of all my goods moveable."

Such is the frailty of human nature that even when widows accepted the obligation of faith
and chastity in the most solemn manner, the vow was occasionally broken. This will hardly excite
surprise when we consider the youth, or comparative youth, of some of the postulants. Mary,
the widow of Lewis, King of Hungary, was only twenty-three at the time of her profession. Our
English annals yield striking instances of promises followed by repentance. Thus Eleanor, third
daughter of King John, "on the death of her first husband, the Earl of Pembroke, 1231, in the
first transports of her grief, made in public a solemn vow in the presence of Edmund, Archbishop
of Canterbury, that she would never again become a wife, but remain a true spouse of Christ,
and received a ring in confirmation, which she, however, broke, much to the indignation of
a strong party of the laity and clergy of England, on her marriage with Simon de Montfort,
Earl of Leicester." Another delinquent was Lady Elizabeth Juliers, Countess of Kent. When her
first husband died, in 1354, she took a vow of chastity before William de Edyndon, Archbishop
of Canterbury. Six years later she was wedded privately and without licence to Sir Eustace
Dabridgecourt, Knight. As the result, the Archbishop of Canterbury instituted proceedings against
her, and she was condemned to severe penance for the remainder of her life. In the light of
these examples it is unnecessary to observe that the infraction of a vow so strict and stringent
brought the utmost discredit on any widow who might be guilty of it.

The question has been raised why widows did not, instead of making their especial vow, enter
the third orders of St. Dominic and St. Francis, both of them intended for pious persons remaining
in the world. The answer has already, in some degree, been given in what was said regarding
the extinct order of deaconesses. Followers of St. Dominic and St. Francis were bound to recite
daily a shortened form of the Breviary, supposing that they were able to read, or, if they
were not able, a certain number of Aves and Paternosters. They were further expected to observe
sundry fasts over and above those commanded by the Church, and thus they became qualified for
all the benefits accruing to the first two orders, Dominican and Franciscan. With the vowesses
it was different. The one condition imposed upon them was that of chastity, as tending to a
state of sanctification. They took upon themselves no other obligation whatever, and consequently
acquired no title to the blessings and privileges flowing from the strict observance of rules
to which they did not subscribe. Even after the Reformation the custom did not absolutely cease.
At any rate, Anne Clifford, Countess of Dorset, who died in 1676, is stated, after the death
of her last husband, to have dressed in black serge and to have been very abstemious in the
matter of food.

Here and there may be found funeral monuments containing representations of vowesses. Leland
remarks, with reference to a member of the Marmion family at West Tanfield, Yorkshire: "There
lyeth there alone a lady with the apparill of a vowess"; and in Norfolk there are still in
existence two brasses of widows and vowesses. The earlier and smaller, of about the year 1500,
adjoins the threshold of the west door of Witton church, near Blofield, and bears the figure
of a lady in a gown, mantle, barbe or gorget, and veil, together with the inscription:

  ORATE ANIMA DOMINE JULIANE ANGELL
  VOTRICIS CUJUS ANIME PROPRICIETUR DEUS.

The other example is in the little church of Frenze, near Diss, which contains, among a number
of other interesting brasses, that of a lady clothed, like the former, in gown, mantle, barbe,
and veil. This figure, however, shows cuffs; the gown is encircled with an ornamental girdle,
and depending from the mantle on long cords ending in tassels. Underneath runs the legend:

  HIC JACET TUMULATA DOMINA JOHANNA
  BRAHAM VIRDUA AC DEO DEDICATA. OLIM UXOREM
  JOHANNIS BRAHAM ARMIGERI QUI OBIT XVIII DIE
  NOVEMBRIS ANNO DOMINI MILLINO CCCCXIX CU
  JUS ANIME PROPICIETUR DEUS. AMEN.

Below are three shields, of which the dexter bears the husband's arms, the sinister those of
Dame Braham's family, and the middle the coats impaled. In neither of these examples is the
ring--the most important symbol--displayed on the vowess's finger. This omission may be explained,
perhaps, by the fact that it was not buried with her, being, as we have seen, sometimes bequeathed
as an heirloom and sometimes left as a gift to the Church.

Notwithstanding the desire of so many husbands that their widows should live "sole, without
marriage," it is well known that second and even third marriages were not uncommon in the Middle
Ages, and, provided that they did not involve an infraction of some solemn engagement, do not
appear to have incurred social censure any more than at present.

ECCLESIASTICAL

CHAPTER III

THE LADY FAST

It was pointed out as one of the distinctions between vowesses and members of the third orders
of the Dominican and Franciscan brotherhoods that the latter were pledged to the observance
of fasts from which the former were exempt. Tyndale complains of the "open idolatry" of abstinences
undertaken in honour of St. Patrick, St. Brandan, and other holy men of old; and he lays special
stress on "Our Lady Fast," which, he explains, was kept "either seven years the same day that
her day falleth in March, and then begin, or one year with bread and water." Whatever fasts
a vowess might neglect as non-obligatory, it seems probable that she would not willingly forgo
any opportunity of showing reverence to the Blessed Virgin, who, in the belief of St. Augustine,
had taken vows of chastity before the salutation of the Angel.

It is not a little curious that the Lady Fast, in the forms mentioned by Tyndale, was so far
from being enjoined by the Church as to be actually opposed to the decree of the Roman Council
of 1078, which indicated Saturday as the day of the week appropriated to the honour of the
Blessed Virgin. This usage was as well understood in the British Isles as elsewhere. Thus,
in "Piers Plowman":

  Lechery said "Alas!" and on Our Lady he cried
  To make mercy for his misdeeds between God and his soul,
  With that he should the Saturday seven year thereafter
  Drink but with the duck, and dine but once.

Bower, the continuator of Fordun's "Scotichronicon," makes it a reproach to lax prelates that
they suffer the common people to vary after their own pleasure the days kept as fast days in
honour of Mary. In doing so he recalls that on Saturday, the first Easter Eve, she abode unshakenly
in the faith, when the apostles doubted. Good reason, therefore, why Saturday should be dedicated
to her as a fast. "But now," he continues, "you will see both men and women on a Saturday morning
make good dinners, who, on a Tuesday or a Thursday, would not touch a crust of bread, lest
they should break the Lady Fast kept after their own fancy."

Tyndale seems to have erred in intimating that the Lady Fast, if of an annual character, was
regulated of necessity by the feast of the Annunciation, or, in the happier, more affectionate
phrase of our forefathers, "the Gretynge of Our Ladye." The Blessed Virgin had no fewer than
six festivals--those of the Conception, Nativity, Annunciation, Visitation, Purification, and
Assumption--any one of which might be made the starting-point of the fast either by the choice
of the votary or by the cast of the die. A third method is instanced in the "Popish Kingdom"
of Barnabe Googe (1570), actually an English metrical version of a truculent German satire
by one Thomas Kirchmeyer, who was scholar enough to Latinize, or Græcize, his homely patronymic
into the more imposing correlative "Naogeorgus." The passage is as follows:

  Besides they keep Our Lady's fast at sundry solemn times,
  Instructed by a turning wheel, or as the lot assigns.
  For every sexton has a wheel that hangeth for the view,
  Mark'd round about with certain days, unto the Virgin due,
  Which holy through the year are kept, from whence hangs down a thread
  Of length sufficient to be touched and to be handled.
  Now when that any servant of Our Lady cometh here
  And seeks to have some certain day by lot for to appear,
  The sexton turns the wheel about, and bids the stander-by
  To hold the thread whereby he doth the time and season try,
  Wherein he ought to keep his fast and every other thing
  That decent is and longing to Our Lady's worshipping.

Although, as has been said, the "Popish Kingdom" had a German original, it is an extraordinary
fact that no Continental example of the Lady Fast wheel is known to exist. Two English wheels
have been preserved--both of them in East Anglian churches: viz., those of Long Stratton, Norfolk,
and Yaxley, Suffolk. Of the two the former is the more perfect. That at Yaxley consists of
a pair of wheels, cut out of sheet iron, which measure a little over two feet in diameter,
and are similar and concentric, but separate. The Long Stratton wheels, on the other hand,
have a pin passing through the centre which holds them together, and around which they revolve,
each of them independently. To the same pin is attached the forked end of a long pendent handle,
which was held by the sexton. Each wheel is pierced with three holes through which strings
were passed, the total number coinciding with that of the six feasts sacred to Mary, or possibly
to the six days of the week excluding Sunday, which did not rank as a fast day.

The instrument was worked in the following manner. Should a devout person desire to keep a
Lady Fast, he or she repaired to the church to determine by the aid of the wheel which of the
days or anniversaries should be observed. Thereupon the sexton took the wheel, which he either
hung up or held at arm's length by means of a ring at the termination of the handle. He then
set the wheel in motion, and the votary, standing by, caught at the strings as they spun round.
Whichever string was caught decided the question on what day the fast was to be begun, whether
on the feast of the Annunciation or that of the Assumption, or any other of the six feasts,
or days of the week, of which the several strings were emblematical. The feast of the Assumption
was known as Lady Day in Harvest, being observed on the fifteenth of August.

The compromise, which we style the Reformation, at first inclined to the retention of the Saturday
fast; and, indeed, the legislature interfered to enforce its more regular observance. In 1548
a remarkable measure was enacted with this object, not so much, it is to be feared, out of
any genuine concern for religion as for the benefit of the fishing community, whose interests
had been injuriously affected by recent ecclesiastical changes.

"Albeit," it recites, "the King's subjects now having a more perfect and clear light of the
Gospel and true word of God, through the infinite cleansing and mercy of Almighty God, by the
hand of the King's Majesty and his most noble father of famous memory, promulgate, shewed,
declared and opened, and thereby perceiving that one day or one kind of meat of itself is not
more holy, more pure, or more clean than another, for that all days and all meats be of their
nature of one equal purity, cleanness, and holiness, and that all men should by them live to
the glory of God, and at all times and for all meats give thanks unto Him, of which meats none
can defile Christian men or make them unclean at any time, to whom all meats be lawful and
pure, so that they be not used in disobedience or vice; yet forasmuch as divers of the King's
subjects turning their knowledge therein to satisfy their sensuality, when they should thereby
increase in virtue, have in late time more than in times past, broken and contemned such abstinence
which hath been used in the Realm upon the Fridays and Saturdays, the Embering days, and other
days commonly called Vigils, and in the time commonly called Lent and other accustomed times:
the King's Majesty, considering that due and godly abstinence is a means to virtue, and to
subdue men's bodies to their soul and spirit, and considering also especially that Fishers,
and men using the trade of living by fishing in the sea, may thereby the rather be set on work,
and that by eating of fish much flesh shall be saved and increased, and also for divers other
considerations and commodities of this realm, doth ordain 'that all statutes and constitutions
regarding fasting be repealed, but that all persons neglecting to observe the ordinary fast
days--Fridays, Saturdays, Ember days, and Lent--be subject to a fine of ten shillings and ten
days' imprisonment for the first offence.'"

This measure, so inconsistent with the spirit of the age and so contradictory in its terms,
was re-enacted at various dates during the reigns of Elizabeth and James I. It is perhaps the
last "word" as regards the Lady Fast, but the legislature by no means suspended its vigilance
in enforcing abstinence at the proper season. Discussion of post-Reformation fasting, however,
or fasting in general, forms no part of our present undertaking.

ECCLESIASTICAL

CHAPTER IV

CHILDREN OF THE CHAPEL

The fact may not have escaped notice that Domina Alicia Seynt Johan de Baggenet "took the vow
of widowhood in the chapel of the Lord of Amberley." Possession of a private chapel was, as
it still is, a mark of social distinction. "It was once the constitution of the English," runs
a law of King Athelstan, "that the people and their legal condition went according to their
merits; and then were the councillors of the nation honoured each one according to his quality,
the earl and the ceorl, the thane and the underthane. If a ceorl throve so as to have five
hides booked to him, a church, bell-tower, a seat in the borough, and an office in the King's
court, from that time forward he was esteemed equal in honour to a thane." Again, the laws
of King Edgar relating to tithe ordain "that God's church be entitled to every right, and that
every tithe be rendered to the old minster to which the district belongs, and be then so paid,
both from the thane's inland and from geneat land, as the plough traverses it. But if there
be any thane who on his boc-land has a church at which there is a burial-place, let him give
the third part of his own tithe to his church. If anyone hath a church at which there is not
a burial-place, then of the same nine parts let him then give to his priest what he will."

Domestic chapels were extremely common all through the Middle Ages. In the parish of Tiverton,
Devon, there were at least seventeen, some of them within less than a mile of each other. Allusions
to these oratories are found in the registers of the Bishops of Exeter, by whom they were severally
licensed for the convenience of the owner, his family, and his tenants. As a rule, they were
in rooms of the house or castle, not separate buildings. Andrew Boorde, in his directions for
the construction of a sixteenth-century mansion, remarks: "Let the privy chamber be annexed
to the great chamber of estate, with other chambers necessary for the building, so that many
of the chambers may have a prospect into the chapel."

Great nobles of the post-Conquest period were not content with the services of a priest only.
They maintained an establishment of singing men and boys analogous to the vicars-choral and
choristers of the present time, who were described as "the gentlemen and children of the chapel."
From the household books of the Earl of Northumberland (A.D. 1510-11) we learn that he had
"daily abidynge in his household--Gentillmen of the Chapel, ix; viz., the maistre of the Childre,
j; Tenors, ij; Counter-tenors, iiij; the Pistoler, j; and oone for the Orgayns; Childer of
the Chapell, vj."

Particulars are recorded of the daily allowances of bread, beer, and fish during Lent. On Scambling
Days it was usual not to provide regular meals, each having to scramble or shift for himself,
but things were otherwise ordered in the mansion of the Percy, where the service of meat and
drink "upon Scambling Days in Lent yerely" was properly seen to. Not only are we furnished
with the "Ordre of all suche Braikfasts that shall be lowable daily in my Lordes hous thorowte
the yere as well on Flesche days as Fysch days in Lent, and out of Lent," but accounts are
supplied of the liveries of wine, white wine, and wax, and also of wood and coal, of which
the Master and the Children of the Chapel were entitled to one peck per diem. The cost of the
washing of surplices, etc., was not to exceed a stated sum. "Then shal be paid for the Holl
weshing of all manner of Lynnon belonging to the Lordes Chappell for a Holl yere but xvijs.
iiijd. And to be weshed for every Penny iij Surplesses or iij Albes. And the said Surplesses
to be weshed in the yere xvj tymes against these Feasts following," &c.

The salaries of the choir were paid at definite intervals, and formed a charge on his lordship's
property in Yorkshire. The scale of remuneration was as follows:

"Gentillmen of the Chappell x (as to saye, Two at x marks a pece, iij at iiijl. a pece, Two
at v marks a pece, Oon at iiij marks, Oon at xxs., and Oon at xxs.; viz., ij Bassis, ij Tenors
and vj Counter-tenors). Childeryn of the Chappell vj, after xxvs. a pece. And so the whole
somme for full contentacion of the said Chappell wagies for oone hole yere ys--xxxvl. xvs."

The gentlemen slept two in a bed, as seems to have been the custom for priests also; the children,
three in a bed. ("There shall be for vj Prests iij Beddes after ij to a Bedde; for x Gentillmen
of the Chapell v Beddes, after ij to a Bedde; for vj Children ij Beddes after iij to a Bedde.")

Not only noblemen, but the Princes of the Church had their private chapels, for which the services
of children were retained. George Cavendish, in his "Life of Wolsey," gives a glowing account
of the Cardinal's palatial appointments, in the course of which he observes: "Now I will declare
unto you the officers of his chapel and singing men of the same. First he had there a dean,
a great divine, and a man of excellent learning; and a sub-dean, a repeater of the choir, a
gospeller and epistler of the singing-priests, and a master of the children [therefore, of
course, children]; in the vestry a yeoman and two grooms, besides other retainers that came
thither at principal feasts.... And as for the furniture of the chapel it passeth my weak capacity
to declare the number of the costly ornaments and rich jewels that were occupied in the same,
for I have seen in procession about the hall forty-four rich copes of one settle worn, besides
the candlesticks and other necessary ornaments to the furniture of the same." Such were the
sumptuous surroundings in which "children of the chapel" were wont sometimes to perform their
office.

An element of distinction enjoyed by peer and prelate was not likely to be absent from the
first estate of the realm; and, in point of fact, the phrase "children of the chapel," so far
as it is known, is more commonly associated with the King's court than any of the castles or
episcopal palaces of the land. Certain of the King's "Gentlemen of the Chapel" seem to have
received payment in money, including extraordinary fees, and provided for themselves, whilst
others had board and lodging. The following table, though less complete than the Northumberland
accounts, throws light on the rate of requital:

                                             £  s. d.

  Master of the children, for his wages
  and board wages                            30  0  0

  Gospeller, for wages,                      13  6  8

  Epistoler,  "    "                         13  6  8

  Verger,     "    "                         20  0  0

  Yeomen of the Vestry                      {10  0  0
                                            {10  0  0

  Children of the Chapel, ten                56 13  4

Another ordinance states that "The Gentlemen of the Chapell, Gospeller, Episteller, and Sergeant
of the Vestry shall have from the last day of March forward for their board wages, everie of
them, 10d. per diem; and the Yeomen and Groomes of the Vestry, everie of them, 2s. by the weeke."
When not on board wages, they had "Bouche of Court," like the physicians. "Bouche of Court"
signified the daily livery or allowance of food, drink, and fuel, and this, in the case of
the Master of the Children, exceeded that of the surgeons to the value of about £1 1s. per
annum. Thus it will be seen that the style "Gentlemen," as applied to the grown-up members
of the choir, was not merely complimentary, but indicative of their actual status.

Meals were served at regular hours. "It is ordeyned that the household, when the hall is kept,
shall observe certyne times for dinner and souper as followeth: that is to say, the first dynner
in eating dayes to begin at tenn of the clock, or somewhat before; and the first souper at
foure of the clock on worke dayes."

The duties of the choir also are plainly laid down: "Forasmuch as it is goodly and honourable
that there should be alwayes some divine service in the court ... when his grace keepeth court
and specially in riding journeys: it is ordeyned that the master of the children and six men
... shall give their continual attendance in the King's court, and dayly in the absence of
the residue of the chappell, to have a masse of our Lady before noone, and on Sundayes and
holy dayes masse of the day besides our Lady masse, and an anthem in the afternoone."

