    "In the case of Sir William Hawksworth, related by Baker in his
    Chronicle of the Time of Edward IV., p. 223. (sub anno 1471), he
    being weary of his life, and willing to be rid of it by another's hand,
    blamed his parker for suffering his deer to be destroyed; and commanded
    him that he should shoot the next man that he met in his park that
    would not stand or speak. The knight himself came in the night into the
    park, and being met by the keeper, refused to stand or speak. The
    keeper shot and killed him, not knowing him to be his master. This
    seems to be no felony, but excusable by the statute of Malefactores in
    Parcis."

This account varies from Ritson's in the name "Hawksworth" instead of "Hankford," and the date
1471 instead of 1422. It seems plain that Lord Hale had no idea that the person shot was a
judge: and possibly the truth may be, that it was a descendant of the judge that was shot.
Even if Hankford's death were in 1422, as stated by Risdon, the traditional account that he
caused his own death "in doubt of his safety" does not seem very probable, as Henry V. came
to the throne in 1412-13. Probably some of your readers may be able to clear up the matter.

I was at Harewood the other day, and examined a tomb there alleged to be that of the C.-J.
Gascoigne. In the centre of the west end of the tomb is a shield: first and fourth, five fleurs-de-lys
(France); second and third, three lions passant gardant (England).--May I ask how these arms
happen to be on this tomb?

There are several other shields on the tomb, but all are now undistinguishable except one;
which appears to be a bend impaling a saltire, as far as I can make it out: the colours are
wholly obliterated. The head of the figure has not a coif on it, as I should have anticipated;
but a cap fitting very close, and a bag is suspended from the left arm.--Is it known for certain
that this is C.-J. Gascoigne's tomb?

S. G. C.

Harrogate.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. SANSOM need not have been very much surprised that I should have omitted noticing a tradition
concerning Sir William Hankford, when I was merely rectifying an error with reference to Sir
William Gascoigne. That I have not overlooked entirely "the Devonshire tradition, which represents
Sir William Hankford to be the judge {343} who committed Prince Henry," may be seen in The
Judges of England, vol. iv. p. 324., wherein I show the total improbability of the tale. And
my disbelief in the story of Hankford's death, and its more probable application to Sir Robert
Danby, is already noticed in "N. & Q.," Vol. v., p. 93.

EDWARD FOSS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSLATION OF THE PRAYER BOOK INTO FRENCH.

(Vol. vii., p. 382.)

In answer to some of the questions proposed by O. W. J. respecting the Prayer Book translated
into French, I am able to give this information.

A copy of a French Prayer Book is to be found in the Bodleian Library (Douce Coll.), which
is very probably the first edition of the translation. A general account of this book may be
gained from Strype's Mem. Eccl. K. Ed. VI. (vol. iii. p. 208. ed. 1816); also Strype's Mem.
Abp. Cranmer (b. ii. c. 22. sub fin. and c. 33., and App. 54. and 261.); also Collier's Eccl.
Hist., vol. ii. p. 321.

From these sources we may conclude that a translation of the first book of K. Ed. VI. was begun
very soon after its publication in England, at the instigation of Pawlet (at that time governor
of Calais), with the sanction of the king and the archbishop "for the use of the islands of
Guernsey and Jersey, and of the town and dependencies of Calais;" but it does not seem to have
been completed before the publication of the second book took place, and so the alterations
were incorporated into this edition.

