The materials for making face and dish cloths are: cheese cloth cut bias, darning or knitting
cotton, or candle-wicking. Those made from cheese cloth resemble the Turkish rags. Cut and
splice the cheese cloth according to directions on page 83. The face cloth in the illustration
is made from white cheese cloth, cut bias. String the warp 3/16 inch with white twine. It being
desirable to have face and dish cloths as soft as possible, do not push the woof threads too
closely together. When the cloth is removed from the loom, conceal the ends of the warp strings
as previously directed. Fine white thread should be used. If preferred, the edges can be bound
with tape. Cloths of candle-wicking are very quickly woven, but they are not so soft.

Face cloths of cheese cloth with borders of knitting cotton would be durable and satisfactory.
Make them according to directions given for rugs with centers and borders.

Cross-barred face cloths made of knitting cotton No. 4, in two colors, are very pretty.

[Sidenote: Bath rug made with continuous warp]

Serviceable bath rugs can be made by making three strips as long as desired, and then fastening
together. They are made of cheese cloth cut bias, but the woof threads are packed much tighter
than in the face cloths. Finish the edges by stitching a white tape all around. Floor rugs
of any kind can be made firmer by finishing in this way with tape of the same color.

Chapter Eleven

RAFFIA MATS

[Sidenote: Method of making raffia mats]

[Sidenote: The rods and the warp strings in kindergarten patterns]

Mats of raffia are made like all the other mats. The warp may be of twine or carpet thread.
In this case, the mat should be woven of raffia in the natural color, with stripes of bright
color at each end; or, it may be of some dark tone with stripes of a contrasting color. By
using a warp of raffia, many of the beautiful kindergarten designs can be produced. Use one
color for the warp and another for the woof. The method of stringing a warp of raffia is described
in "Methods of Stringing Warp," on page 45. The illustration shows a raffia mat in process
of making. The natural color of raffia is used, with stripes of cardinal, and the method of
stringing color in the warp to obtain this effect is clearly seen. The children will have no
difficulty in carrying out the pattern, if they remember that the rods correspond to the border
of the paper mat. Before stringing the warp for a kindergarten pattern, count the strips in
the paper mat and begin to count on the loom from the rods. In this kind of work the string
on top of the rod does not count. It forms the border of the mat.

[Sidenote: Stringing the warp]

In making mats, or matting, of raffia, the material can be carried over the rods as in wool-weaving,
or it can be finished on the edges in the same way as the real matting is done. This will be
easily understood by examining a piece of matting. In stringing the warp, have three strings
over each bar instead of one. Cut the woof strips several inches longer than the width of the
loom. Weave the first strip, leaving a piece at each side. Thread a tape needle with one end
and weave it in and out the three warp threads on the rod. Then cut it off close to the edge.
Finish off all the ends in this way. When the work is removed from the loom, press the edges
flat with a warm iron. It is a little easier to keep the pattern right by weaving in this way,
and the work resembles the real matting more nearly. Use a tape needle for weaving raffia.

[Sidenote: Porch curtains]

If the doll house which we are fitting is a large one with porches, one could complete the
furnishings with a porch curtain, for sunny afternoons.

[Sidenote: Glove, trinket, and mouchoir boxes]

Boxes of all kinds can be made of raffia woven in panels. It will make the box stronger and
firmer to overhand a piece of rattan around the edges of the panels before joining them in
the form of a box. Thread a worsted needle with a narrow strip of raffia and buttonhole the
edges of the panels together; or, sew them over and over and cover with a braid of raffia.
Spiral-weaving is pretty for this finishing. It is described in an article entitled "Straw-Weaving,"
in "American Homes" for September, 1900, a magazine published in Knoxville, Tenn. Glove, trinket,
and mouchoir boxes are pretty for holiday gifts. By using different patterns and colors a great
variety of them can be made.

[Sidenote: Rugs of carpet wool]

For rugs made of carpet wool, string a three-eighths-inch warp of twine, or oriental cord,
the color of the body of the rug. Use a deep tone of red, olive green, or any preferred color,
with a stripe at each end. A study of rugs will soon enable one to get the right proportion
of rug and stripe. Beautiful rugs are made with a succession of Roman stripes separated by
a narrow one of deep red, green, or blue, the ends of the rug being woven of the same color.
Center and corner patterns can be woven by placing the pattern under the warp. By stringing
a close warp of the same material all the designs for paper-weaving can be easily reproduced.
Lengthwise stripes are also pretty. String the warp with different colors and weave a neutral
color through them. The rug in the frontispiece is woven of heavy carpet wool, some of which
is seen on the table.

[Sidenote: Patterns for rugs]

[Sidenote: Fundamental form No. 1]

Beautiful patterns for rugs can be made by cutting squares and triangles of paper according
to directions given in the "Kindergarten Guides." The "Paradise of Childhood" has some very
pretty ones. There are two fundamental forms for this paper-cutting. The first is made from
a nine-inch square. Fold one diagonal, place the right acute angle upon the left so as to produce
four triangles resting upon each other. The form now lies before you with the right angle at
the right and two acute angles (one on top of the other) at the left. Lift one of these acute
angles and place on top of the angle at the back, creasing the fold; then fold the remaining
acute angle under to the same angle at the back, creasing as before. Now place the form with
the right angle at the back and hold all the open edges to the left while cutting. Illustrations
in the "Kindergarten Guides" show a network drawn on the triangle at the top as an aid to transferring
the pattern.

[Sidenote: Fundamental form No. 2]

The second fundamental form is made from a six-fold equilateral triangle. Directions for folding
and cutting this from the square are given in the "Paradise of Childhood." It can be cut, also,
from a circle whose diameter is equal to the width of the rug desired. In drawing and cutting
the pattern, hold the form with the entirely open sides toward you. The whole pattern is cut
at once and the unfolding often reveals a charming design for a rug, which can be woven in
tones or contrasting colors. If cut from colored paper, it can be mounted on white and placed
under the warp. Beautiful original designs in conventional leaf and flower patterns can also
be made.

[Sidenote: Conventional leaf forms]

To make a conventional leaf form, use fundamental form No. 1. Cut the leaf on the mid-rib and
lay this part on the base of the triangle with the point of the leaf on the open edges at the
left, and the stem on the closed part at the right. Draw around the edges of the leaf and cut,
taking care not to separate the leaf forms at the center, which is at the closed part at your
right hand.

Some excellent suggestions for this leaf-cutting in centerpieces and borders can be found in
the "Pratt Institute Monthly" for April, 1900.

[Sidenote: Dusters]

Dusters for hardwood floors are best made of strips of old flannel. They can be made of stocking
strips, or cheese cloth. Make two mats the full size of the loom, sew on three sides and run
a gathering-string around the top. It will fit better if it has a piece of cheese cloth sewn
at the top through which the gathering-string can be run. This makes a fine duster to slip
over a broom. If one prefers, a continuous warp can be strung--the length to be twice the length
of the broom part--and a long piece woven which will require sewing on two sides only.

[Sidenote: Doll towels]

[Sidenote: Patterns for towel borders]

[Sidenote: Lunch cloths]

[Sidenote: Bedspreads]

[Sidenote: Quilts]

Doll towels are very fascinating things to make. Adjust the loom for the required size. The
exact proportion can be ascertained from a large towel. String the close warp with fine darning
cotton and have the strings in pairs with fringe at each end. Allow several inches for fringe
so that it can be knotted easily. The woof threads, which are also of fine darning cotton,
should be pushed very closely and smoothly together. Plain stripes of red or blue, or fancy
stripes made with a kindergarten design, can be woven. Observe the same directions for spacing
the stripes which are given with the silkoline rug. The towel in the illustration is made of
white darning cotton, with the stripes and initial of red. The children will be delighted to
lay towel borders with their tablets, and after cutting and pasting with colored paper, weave
them in towels for Miss Dolly's housekeeping. Cross-stitch the initial as previously directed.
Lunch cloths and bedspreads can be made in the same way. These should be fringed all around.
A cross-barred cloth or spread can be made by putting the color in the warp at regular intervals
and weaving across with color and white to form squares. Pretty quilts of coarse cotton can
be made with kindergarten designs. By weaving many squares, a large quilt can be made. See
directions on page 50.

[Sidenote: Bed and carriage blankets]

Bed and carriage blankets are best made of single zephyr, although Germantown wool will do.
The heavy carpet wools are also pretty. Some suggestions for this work have already been given
under the head of Materials. These blankets are really mats, but made only for another use,
and are to be woven in a similar way. Those with centers and borders are pretty, and the plaid
ones are always attractive. (See illustration of the holder on page 92.)

[Sidenote: Doll shawls]

For doll shawls choose a pretty Scotch plaid and match the colors in fine wool. String a close
warp with wool, copying the Scotch plaid exactly. Weave the colors across so that a "truly"
plaid shawl may grace Miss Dolly's shoulders on the cold winter mornings. A striped shawl is
pretty, or one having one color for the center and another for the border.

[Sidenote: Doll skirt]

Miss Dolly may have a lovely petticoat, too. String a continuous warp long enough for the width
of the skirt. Adjust the rods for the length. By using a little color in the warp near the
right edge of the weaving, the skirt will have some stripes. Twist a cord of the wool and run
in the top for a draw-string.

[Sidenote: Reins]

To make reins, adjust for a narrow strip and string a close, continuous warp the length desired.
Make a piece, also, to go across the front. Use Germantown knitting yarn. A black warp with
a bright red woof is pretty.

[Sidenote: A square Tam O'Shanter]

In order to obtain a Tam O'Shanter for Dolly, first weave a square the required size. String
a close warp with wool and weave a kindergarten pattern with two colors. When completed, remove
from the loom, fold four corners to the center, turn them in to form an opening for the head,
and fasten the edges by sewing, or by lacing with a cord made of the two colors. Fasten a tassel
on the top and it is finished. Angora wool is pretty for these caps.

