       *       *       *       *       *

THE VOICE OF NATURE.

  I heard a bird on the linden tree,
    From which November leaves were falling,
  Sweet were its notes, and wild their tone;
  And pensive there as I paused alone,
  They spake with a mystical voice to me,
    The sunlight of vanish'd years recalling
  From out the mazy past.

  I turned to the cloud-bedappled sky,
    To bare-shorn field and gleaming water;
  To frost-night herbage, and perishing flower;
  While the Robin haunted the yellow bower;
  With his faery plumage and jet-black eye,
    Like an unlaid ghost some scene of slaughter:
  All mournful was the sight.

  Then I thought of seasons, when, long ago,
    Ere Hope's clear sky was dimm'd by sorrow,
  How bright seem'd the flowers, and the trees how green,
  How lengthen'd the blue summer days had been;
  And what pure delight the young spirit's glow,
    From the bosom of earth and air, could borrow
  Out of all lovely things.

  Then my heart leapt to days, when, a careless boy,
    'Mid scenes of ambrosial Autumn roaming,
  The diamond gem of the Evening Star,
  Twinkling amid the pure South afar,
  Was gazed on with gushes of holy joy,
    As the cherub spirit that ruled the gloaming
  With glittering, golden eye.

  And oh! with what rapture of silent bliss.
    With what breathless deep devotion,
  Have I watch'd, like spectre from swathing shroud,
  The white moon peer o'er the shadowy cloud,
  Illumine the mantled Earth, and kiss
    The meekly murmuring lips of Ocean,
  As a mother doth her child.

  But now I can feel how Time hath changed
    My thoughts within, the prospect round us--
  How boyish companions have thinn'd away;
  How the sun hath grown cloudier, ray by ray;
  How loved scenes of childhood are now estranged;
    And the chilling tempests of Care have bound us
  Within their icy folds.

  'Tis no vain dream of moody mind,
    That lists a dirge i' the blackbird's singing;
  That in gusts hears Nature's own voice complain,
  And beholds her tears in the gushing rain;
  When low clouds congregate blank and blind,
    And Winter's snow-muffled arms are clinging
  Round Autumn's faded urn.

DELTA.

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CALAIS

Calais will merit to be described by every Englishman who visits it, and to be read of by every
one who does not--so long as Hogarth, and "Oh! the Roast Beef of Old England!" shall be remembered,
and--which will be longer still--till the French and English become one people, merely by dint
of living, within three hours' journey of each other. Calais has been treated much too cavalierly
by the flocks of English, who owe to it their first, and consequently most fixed impressions
of French manners, and the English want of them. Calais is, in fact, one of the most agreeable
and characteristic little towns in France. It is "lively, audible, and full of vent"--as gay
as a fair, and as busy as a bee-hive--and its form and construction as compact.

Calais, unlike any English town you could name, is content to remain where it is--instead of
perpetually trying to stretch away towards Paris, as our's do towards London, and as London
itself does towards them. Transporting you at once to the "Place" in the centre of the town
(an entirely open square, of about 150 paces by 100,) you can scarcely look upon a more lively
and stirring scene. The houses and their shops (they have all shops) are like nothing so much
as so many scenes in a pantomime--so fancifully and variously are they filled, so brightly
and fantastically painted, and so abruptly do they seem to have risen out of the ground! This
last appearance is caused by the absence of a foot-path, and of areas, porticoes, railings,
&c.--such as, in all cases, give a kind of finish to the look of our houses. The houses here
seem all to have grown up out of the ground--not to have been built upon it. This is what gives
to them their most striking effect of novelty at the first view. Their brilliant and various
colourings--so unlike our sombre brick-work--is the next cause of the novel impression they
produce. The general strangeness of the effect is completed by the excellence of the pavement,
which is of stones, shaped like those of our best London carriage-ways, but as white as marble
in all weathers, and as regular as the brick-work of a house-front. The uniformity of the "Place"
is broken (not very agreeably) by the principal public edifice of Calais--the Town Hall; a
half-modern, half-antique building, which occupies about a third of the south side, and is
surmounted at one end by a light spiring belfry, containing a most loquacious ring of bells,
which take up a somewhat unreasonable proportion of every quarter of an hour in announcing
its arrival; and, in addition, every three hours they play "Le petit chaperon rouge" for a
longer period than (I should imagine) even French patience and leisure can afford to listen
to it. Immediately behind the centre of this side of the "Place" also rises the lofty tower,
which serves as a light-house to the coast and harbour, and which at night displays its well-known
revolving lights. Most of the principal streets run out of this great Square. The most busy
of them--because the greatest thoroughfare--is a short and narrow one leading to the Port--(Rue
du Havre:) in it live all those shopkeepers who especially address themselves to the wants
of the traveller. But the gayest and most agreeable street is one running from the north-east
corner of the "Place" (Rue Royale.) It terminates in the gate leading to the suburbs (Basse
Ville,) and to the Netherlands and the interior of the country. In this street is situated
the great hotel Dessin--rendered famous for the "for ever" of a century or so to come, by Sterne's
Sentimental Journey. The only other street devoted exclusively to shops is one running parallel
with the south side of the "Place." The rest of the interior of Calais consists of about twenty
other streets, each containing here and there a shop, but chiefly occupied by the residences
of persons directly or indirectly connected with the trade of Calais as a sea-port town.

If you believe its maligners, Calais is no better than a sort of Alsatia to England, a kind
of extension of the rules of the King's Bench. The same persons would persuade you that America
is something between a morass and a desert, and that its inhabitants are a cross between swindlers
and barbarians; merely because its laws do not take upon them to punish those who have not
offended against them! If America were to send home to their respective countries, in irons,
all who arrive on her shores under suspicion of not being endowed with a Utopian degree of
honesty--or, if (still better) she were to hang them outright, she would be looked upon as
the most pious, moral, and refined nation under the sun, and her climate would rival that of
Paradise. And if Calais did not happen to be so situated, that it affords a pleasant refuge
to some of those who have the wit to prefer free limbs and fresh air to a prison, it would
be all that is agreeable and genteel. It seems to be thought, that a certain ci-devant leader
of fashion has chosen Calais as his place of voluntary exile, out of a spirit of contradiction.
But the truth is, he had the good sense to see that he might "go farther and fare worse;" and
that, at any rate, he would thus secure himself from the intrusions of that "good company,"
which had been his bane. By-the-by, his last "good thing" appertains to his residence here.
Some one asked him how he could think of residing in "such a place as Calais?" "I suppose,"
said he, "it is possible for a gentleman to live between London and Paris."

The interior of Calais I need not describe further, except to say that round three-fourths
of it are elevated ramparts, overlooking the surrounding country to a great extent, and in
several parts planted with trees, which afford most pleasant and refreshing walks, after pacing
the somewhat perplexing pavements of the streets, and being dazzled by the brilliant whiteness
which reflects from that, and from the houses. The port, which occupies the other fourth, and
is gained by three streets parallel to each other, and leading from the "Place," is small,
but in excellent order, and always alive with shipping, and the amusing operations appertaining
thereto; and the pier is a most striking object, especially at high water, when it runs out,
in a straight line, for near three quarters of a mile, into the open sea. It is true our English
engineers--who ruin hundreds of their fellow citizens by spending millions upon a bridge that
nobody will take the trouble to pass over, and cutting tunnels under rivers, only to let the
water into them when they have got all the money they can by the job--would treat this pier
with infinite contempt as a thing that merely answers all the purposes for which it was erected!
as if that were a merit of any but the very lowest degree. "Look at Waterloo Bridge!" they
say; "we flatter ourselves that was not a thing built (like the pier of Calais) merely for
use. Nobody will say that any such thing was wanted! But, what a noble monument of British
art, and what a fine commemoration of the greatest of modern victories!" True: but it would
have been all this if you had built it on Salisbury Plain; and in that case it would have cost
only half the money. The pier of Calais is, in fact, every thing that it need be, and what
perhaps no other pier is; and yet it is nothing more than a piece of serviceable carpentery,
that must have cost about as much, perhaps, as to print the prospectuses of some of the late
undertakings, and pay the advertisements and the lawyer's bill.

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOSITY.

If I were to enumerate all the great and venerable personages who indulge in an extensive curiosity,
I should never arrive at the end of my subject. Lawyers and physicians are eternal questionists;
the clergy are curious, especially on agricultural affairs; the first nobles in the land take
in the "John Bull" and the "Age" to gratify the most prurient curiosity. The gentlemen of the
Stock Exchange live only from one story to another, and are miserable if a "great man's butler
looks grave," without their knowing why. So general indeed is this passion, that one half of
every Englishman's time is spent in inquiring after the health of his acquaintance, and the
rest in asking "what news?" There is a very respectable knot of persons who go up and down
the country asking people their opinion of the pope's infallibility, and what they think of
the Virgin Mary; and when they do not get an answer to their mind, they fall to shouting, "The
Church is in danger," like a parcel of lunatics. Another set, equally respectable, are chiefly
solicitous for your notions concerning the Apocalypse; and to learn whether you read your Bible
at all, or whether with or without note or comment. Then again, a third set of the curious
are to be seen, mounted upon lamp-posts, and peeping into their neighbours' windows, to learn
whether they shave themselves, or employ a barber on a Sunday morning; and a fourth, who cannot
find time to go to church, in their anxiety to know that their neighbours do not smoke pipes
and drink ale in the time of divine service. In short, society may be considered as one great
system of espionage; and the business of every man is not only with the actions, but with the
very thoughts of all his neighbours.

New Monthly Magazine.

