There is a common proverb which says, that if a man be well dressed as to head and feet, he
may present himself everywhere. The assertion is as false as Mr. Kemble's voice. Happy indeed
if it were necessary to perfect only the extremities. The coat, the waistcoat, the gloves,
and, above all, the cravat, must be alike ignorant of blemish.

Upon the subject of the cravat--(for heaven's sake and Brummel's, never appear in a stock after
twelve o'clock)--We cannot at present say anything. If we were to say anything, we could not
be content without saying all, and to say all would require a folio. A book has been published
upon the subject, entitled "The Cravat considered in its moral, literary, political, military,
and religious attributes." This and a clever, though less profound, treatise on "The art of
tying the Cravat," are as indispensable to a gentleman as an ice at twelve o'clock.

When we speak of excellence in dress we do not mean richness of clothing, nor manifested elaboration.
Faultless propriety, perfect harmony, and a refined simplicity,--these are the charms which
fascinate here.

It is as great a sin to be finical in dress as to be negligent.

Upon this subject the ladies are the only infallible oracles. Apart from the perfection to
which they must of necessity arrive, from devoting their entire existence to such considerations,
they seem to be endued with an inexpressible tact, a sort of sixth sense, which reveals intuitively
the proper distinctions. That your dress is approved by a man is nothing;--you cannot enjoy
the high satisfaction of being perfectly comme il faut, until your performance has received
the seal of a woman's approbation.

If the benefits to be derived from cultivating your exterior do not appear sufficiently powerful
to induce attention, the inconveniences arising from too great disregard may perhaps prevail.
Sir Matthew Hale, in the earlier part of his life, dressed so badly that he was once seized
by the press-gang. Not long since, as I entered the hall of a public hotel, I saw a person
so villainously habited, that supposing him to be one of the servants, I desired him to take
my luggage upstairs, and was on the point of offering him a shilling, when I discovered that
I was addressing the Honorable Mr. * * *, one of the most eminent American statesmen. According
to circumstances, it should be respectful, cordial, civil, affectionate or familiar:--an inclination
of the head, a gesture with the hand, the touching or doffing of the hat.

If you remove your hat you need not at the same time bend the dorsal vertebr' of your body,
unless you wish to be very reverential, as in saluting a bishop.

It is a mark of high breeding not to speak to  a lady in the street, until you perceive that
she has noticed you by an inclination of the head.

Some ladies courtesy in the street, a movement not gracefully consistent with locomotion. They
should always bow.

If an individual of the lowest rank, or without any rank at all, takes off his hat to you,
you should do the same in return.

Avoid condescending bows to your friends and equals. If you meet a rich parvenu, whose consequence
you wish to reprove, you may salute him in a very patronizing manner: or else, in acknowledging
his bow, look somewhat surprised and say, "Mister--eh--eh?"

If you have remarkably fine teeth, you may smile affectionately upon the bowee, without speaking.

In passing ladies of rank, whom you meet in society, bow, but do not speak.

If you have anything to say to any one in the street, especially a lady, however intimate you
may be, do not stop the person, but turn round and walk in company; you can take leave at the
end of the street.

If there is any one of your acquaintance, with whom you have a difference, do not avoid looking
at him, unless from the nature of things the quarrel is necessarily for life. It is almost
always better to bow with cold civility, though without speaking.

As a general rule never cut any one in the street. Even political and steamboat acquaintances
should be noticed by the slightest movement in the world. If they presume to converse with
you, or stop you to introduce their companion, it is then time to use your eye-glass, and say,
"I never knew you."

If you address a lady in the open air, you remain uncovered until she has desired you twice
to put on your hat. In general, if you are in any place where etiquette requires you to remain
uncovered or standing, and a lady, or one much your superior, requests you to be covered or
to sit, you may how off the command. If it is repeated, you should comply. You thereby pay
the person a marked, but delicate, compliment, by allowing their will to be superior to the
general obligations of etiquette.

When two Americans, who "have not been introduced," meet in some public place, as in a theatre,
a stagecoach, or a steamboat, they will sit for an hour staring in one another's faces, but
without a word of conversation. This form of unpoliteness has been adopted from the English,
and it is as little worthy of imitation as the form of their government. Good sense and convenience
are the foundations of good breeding; and it is assuredly vastly more reasonable and more agreeable
to enjoy a passing gratification, when no sequent evil is to be apprehended, than to be rendered
uncomfortable by an ill-founded pride. It is therefore better to carry on an easy and civil
conversation. A snuff-box, or some polite accommodation rendered, may serve for an opening.
Talk only about generalities,--the play, the roads, the weather. Avoid speaking of persons
or politics, for, if the individual is of the opposite party to yourself, you will be engaged
in a controversy: if he holds the same opinions, you will be overwhelmed with a flood of vulgar
intelligence, which may soil your mind. Be reservedly civil while the colloquy lasts, and let
the acquaintance cease with the occasion.

When you are introduced to a gentleman do not give your hand, but merely bow with politeness:
and if you have requested the introduction, or know the person by reputation, you may make
a speech. I am aware that high authority might easily be found in this country to sanction
the custom of giving the hand upon a first meeting, but it is undoubtedly a solecism in manners.
The habit has been adopted by us, with some improvement for the worse, from France. When two
Frenchmen are presented to one another, each presses the other's hand with delicate affection.
The English, however, never do so: and the practice, if abstractly correct, is altogether inconsistent
with the caution of manner which is characteristic of their nation and our own. If we are to
follow the French, in shaking hands with one whom we have never before seen, we should certainly
imitate them also in kissing our intimate male acquaintances. If, however, you ought only to
bow to a new acquaintance, you surely should do more to old ones. If you meet an intimate friend
fifty times in a morning, give your hand every time,--an observance of propriety, which, though
worthy of universal adoption, is in this country only followed by the purists in politeness.
The requisitions of etiquette, if they should be obeyed at all, should be obeyed fully. This
decent formality prevents acquaintance from being too distant, while, at the same time, it
preserves the "familiar" from becoming "vulgar." They may be little things, but

"These little things are great to little men."

Goldsmith.

CHAPTER IV. THE DRAWING-ROOM. COMPANY. CONVERSATION.

The grand object for which a gentleman exists, is to excel in company. Conversation is the
mean of his distinction,--the drawing-room the scene of his glory. We must take occasion here
to obelize a custom which prevails too generally in this country. The company enter the back
door of the back parlour, and the mistress of the house is seated at the other extremity of
the front parlour. It is therefore necessary to traverse the length of two rooms in order to
reach her. A voyage of this kind is by no means an easy undertaking, when there are Circes
and Calypsos assailing one on every side; and when one has reached the conclusion, one cannot
perhaps distinguish the object of one's search at a coup d'oeil. It would be in every point
of view more appropriate if the lady were to stand directly opposite to the door of the back
parlour. Such is the custom in the best companies abroad. Upon a single gentleman entering
at a late hour, it is not so obligatory to speak first to the mistress of the ceremonies. He
may be allowed to converge his way up to her. When you leave a room before the others, go without
speaking to any one, and, if possible, unseen.

Never permit the sanctity of the drawing-room to be violated by a boot.

Fashionable society is divided into sets, in all of which there is some peculiarity of manner,
or some dominant tone of feeling. It is necessary to study these peculiarities before entering
the circle.

In each of these sets there is generally some gentleman, who rules, and gives it its character,
or, rather, who is not ruler, but the first and most favoured subject, and the prime minister
of the ladies' will. Him you must endeavour to imitate, taking care not to imitate him so well
as to excel him. To differ in manner or opinion from him is to render yourself unfit for that
circle. To speak disrespectfully of him is to insult personally every lady who composes it.
Those whom she has honoured by asking to her house, you should sanction by admitting to your
acquaintance.

If you meet any one whom you have never heard of before at the table of a gentleman, or in
the drawing-room of a lady, you may converse with him with entire propriety. The form of "introduction"
is nothing more than a statement by a mutual friend that two gentlemen are by rank and manners
fit acquaintances for one another. All this may be presumed from the fact, that both meet at
a respectable house. This is the theory of the matter. Custom, however, requires that you should
take the earliest opportunity afterwards to be regularly presented to such an one. Do not talk
of politics with a journalist, of fevers to a physician, of stocks to a broker,- -nor, unless
you wish to enrage him to the utmost, of education to a collegian. The error which is here
condemned is often committed from mere good nature and a desire to be affable. But it betrays
to a gentleman, ignorance of the world--to a philosopher, ignorance of human nature. The one
considers that "Tous les hommes sont ,gaux devant la politesse:" the other remembers that though
it may be agreeable to be patronised and assisted, yet it is still more agreeable to be treated
as if you needed no patronage, and were above assistance.

