THE AMERICAN NEGRO

HIS HISTORY AND LITERATURE

RUNNING A THOUSAND MILES FOR FREEDOM

William and Ellen Craft

RUNNING A THOUSAND MILES FOR FREEDOM OR, THE ESCAPE OF WILLIAM AND ELLEN CRAFT FROM SLAVERY.
Therefore, we felt perfectly justified in undertaking the dangerous and exciting task of "running
a thousand miles" in order to obtain those rights which are so vividly set forth in the Declaration.

I beg those who would know the particulars of our journey, to peruse these pages.

This book is not intended as a full history of the life of my wife, nor of myself; but merely
as an account of our escape; together with other matter which I hope may be the means of creating
in some minds a deeper abhorrence of the sinful and abominable practice of enslaving and brutifying
our fellow-creatures.

Without stopping to write a long apology for offering this little volume to the public, I shall
commence at once to pursue my simple story.

W. CRAFT.

12, CAMBRIDGE ROAD, HAMMERSMITH, LONDON.

RUNNING A THOUSAND MILES FOR FREEDOM.

  MILTON.

My wife and myself were born in different towns in the State of Georgia, which is one of the
principal slave States.  It is true, our condition as slaves was not by any means the worst;
but the mere idea that we were held as chattels, and deprived of all legal rights--the thought
that we had to give up our hard earnings to a tyrant, to enable him to live in idleness and
luxury--the thought that we could not call the bones and sinews that God gave us our own: but
above all, the fact that another man had the power to tear from our cradle the new-born babe
and sell it in the shambles like a brute, and then scourge us if we dared to lift a finger
to save it from such a fate, haunted us for years.

But in December, 1848, a plan suggested itself that proved quite successful, and in eight days
after it was first thought of we were free from the horrible trammels of slavery, rejoicing
and praising God in the glorious sunshine of liberty.

My wife's first master was her father, and her mother his slave, and the latter is still the
slave of his widow.

Notwithstanding my wife being of African extraction on her mother's side, she is almost white--in
fact, she is so nearly so that the tyrannical old lady to whom she first belonged became so
annoyed, at finding her frequently mistaken for a child of the family, that she gave her when
eleven years of age to a daughter, as a wedding present. This separated my wife from her mother,
and also from several other dear friends.  But the incessant cruelty of her old mistress made
the change of owners or treatment so desirable, that she did not grumble much at this cruel
separation.

It may be remembered that slavery in America is not at all confined to persons of any particular
complexion; there are a very large number of slaves as white as any one; but as the evidence
of a slave is not admitted in court against a free white person, it is almost impossible for
a white child, after having been kidnapped and sold into or reduced to slavery, in a part of
the country where it is not known (as often is the case), ever to recover its freedom.

I have myself conversed with several slaves who told me that their parents were white and free;
but that they were stolen away from them and sold when quite young.  As they could not tell
their address, and also as the parents did not know what had become of their lost and dear
little ones, of course all traces of each other were gone.

The following facts are sufficient to prove, that he who has the power, and is inhuman enough
to trample upon the sacred rights of the weak, cares nothing for race or colour:--

In March, 1818, three ships arrived at New Orleans, bringing several hundred German emigrants
from the province of Alsace, on the lower Rhine.  Among them were Daniel Muller and his two
daughters, Dorothea and Salome, whose mother had died on the passage.  Soon after his arrival,
Muller, taking with him his two daughters, both young children, went up the river to Attakapas
parish, to work on the plantation of John F. Miller.  A few weeks later, his relatives, who
had remained at New Orleans, learned that he had died of the fever of the country.  They immediately
sent for the two girls; but they had disappeared, and the relatives, notwithstanding repeated
and persevering inquiries and researches, could find no traces of them. They were at length
given up for dead.  Dorothea was never again heard of; nor was any thing known of Salome from
1818 till 1843.

In the summer of that year, Madame Karl, a German woman who had come over in the same ship
with the Mullers, was passing through a street in New Orleans, and accidentally saw Salome
in a wine-shop, belonging to Louis Belmonte, by whom she was held as a slave.  Madame Karl
recognised her at once, and carried her to the house of another German woman, Mrs. Schubert,
who was Salome's cousin and godmother, and who no sooner set eyes on her than, without having
any intimation that the discovery had been previously made, she unhesitatingly exclaimed, "My
God! here is the long-lost Salome Muller."

The Law Reporter, in its account of this case, says:--

"As many of the German emigrants of 1818 as could be gathered together were brought to the
house of Mrs. Schubert, and every one of the number who had any recollection of the little
girl upon the passage, or any acquaintance with her father and mother, immediately identified
the woman before them as the long-lost Salome Muller.  By all these witnesses, who appeared
at the trial, the identity was fully established.  The family resemblance in every feature
was declared to be so remarkable, that some of the witnesses did not hesitate to say that they
should know her among ten thousand; that they were as certain the plaintiff was Salome Muller,
the daughter of Daniel and Dorothea Muller, as of their own existence."

Among the witnesses who appeared in Court was the midwife who had assisted at the birth of
Salome.  She testified to the existence of certain peculiar marks upon the body of the child,
which were found, exactly as described, by the surgeons who were appointed by the Court to
make an examination for the purpose.

There was no trace of African descent in any feature of Salome Muller. She had long, straight,
black hair, hazel eyes, thin lips, and a Roman nose.  The complexion of her face and neck was
as dark as that of the darkest brunette.  It appears, however, that, during the twenty-five
years of her servitude, she had been exposed to the sun's rays in the hot climate of Louisiana,
with head and neck unsheltered, as is customary with the female slaves, while labouring in
the cotton or the sugar field.  Those parts of her person which had been shielded from the
sun were comparatively white.

Belmonte, the pretended owner of the girl, had obtained possession of her by an act of sale
from John F. Miller, the planter in whose service Salome's father died.  This Miller was a
man of consideration and substance, owning large sugar estates, and bearing a high reputation
for honour and honesty, and for indulgent treatment of his slaves.  It was testified on the
trial that he had said to Belmonte, a few weeks after the sale of Salome, "that she was white,
and had as much right to her freedom as any one, and was only to be retained in slavery by
care and kind treatment." The broker who negotiated the sale from Miller to Belmonte, in 1838,
testified in Court that he then thought, and still thought, that the girl was white!

The case was elaborately argued on both sides, but was at length decided in favour of the girl,
by the Supreme Court declaring that "she was free and white, and therefore unlawfully held
in bondage."

The Rev. George Bourne, of Virginia, in his Picture of Slavery, published in 1834, relates
the case of a white boy who, at the age of seven, was stolen from his home in Ohio, tanned
and stained in such a way that he could not be distinguished from a person of colour, and then
sold as a slave in Virginia.  At the age of twenty, he made his escape, by running away, and
happily succeeded in rejoining his parents.

I have known worthless white people to sell their own free children into slavery; and, as there
are good-for-nothing white as well as coloured persons everywhere, no one, perhaps, will wonder
at such inhuman transactions: particularly in the Southern States of America, where I believe
there is a greater want of humanity and high principle amongst the whites, than among any other
civilized people in the world.

I know that those who are not familiar with the working of "the peculiar institution," can
scarcely imagine any one so totally devoid of all natural affection as to sell his own offspring
into returnless bondage.  But Shakespeare, that great observer of human nature, says:--

  "With caution judge of probabilities.
  Things deemed unlikely, e'en impossible,
  Experience often shews us to be true."

My wife's new mistress was decidedly more humane than the majority of her class.  My wife has
always given her credit for not exposing her to many of the worst features of slavery.  For
instance, it is a common practice in the slave States for ladies, when angry with their maids,
to send them to the calybuce sugar-house, or to some other place established for the purpose
of punishing slaves, and have them severely flogged; and I am sorry it is a fact, that the
villains to whom those defenceless creatures are sent, not only flog them as they are ordered,
but frequently compel them to submit to the greatest indignity.  Oh! if there is any one thing
under the wide canopy of heaven, horrible enough to stir a man's soul, and to make his very
blood boil, it is the thought of his dear wife, his unprotected sister, or his young and virtuous
daughters, struggling to save themselves from falling a prey to such demons!

It always appears strange to me that any one who was not born a slaveholder, and steeped to
the very core in the demoralizing atmosphere of the Southern States, can in any way palliate
slavery.  It is still more surprising to see virtuous ladies looking with patience upon, and
remaining indifferent to, the existence of a system that exposes nearly two millions of their
own sex in the manner I have mentioned, and that too in a professedly free and Christian country.
There is, however, great consolation in knowing that God is just, and will not let the oppressor
of the weak, and the spoiler of the virtuous, escape unpunished here and hereafter.

I believe a similar retribution to that which destroyed Sodom is hanging over the slaveholders.
My sincere prayer is that they may not provoke God, by persisting in a reckless course of wickedness,
to pour out his consuming wrath upon them.

I must now return to our history.

My old master had the reputation of being a very humane and Christian man, but he thought nothing
of selling my poor old father, and dear aged mother, at separate times, to different persons,
to be dragged off never to behold each other again, till summoned to appear before the great
tribunal of heaven.  But, oh! what a happy meeting it will be on that day for those faithful
souls.  I say a happy meeting, because I never saw persons more devoted to the service of God
than they.  But how will the case stand with those reckless traffickers in human flesh and
blood, who plunged the poisonous dagger of separation into those loving hearts which God had
for so many years closely joined together--nay, sealed as it were with his own hands for the
eternal courts of heaven?  It is not for me to say what will become of those heartless tyrants.
I must leave them in the hands of an all-wise and just God, who will, in his own good time,
and in his own way, avenge the wrongs of his oppressed people.

My old master also sold a dear brother and a sister, in the same manner as he did my father
and mother.  The reason he assigned for disposing of my parents, as well as of several other
aged slaves, was, that "they were getting old, and would soon become valueless in the market,
and therefore he intended to sell off all the old stock, and buy in a young lot."  A most disgraceful
conclusion for a man to come to, who made such great professions of religion!

This shameful conduct gave me a thorough hatred, not for true Christianity, but for slave-holding
piety.

My old master, then, wishing to make the most of the rest of his slaves, apprenticed a brother
and myself out to learn trades: he to a blacksmith, and myself to a cabinet-maker.  If a slave
has a good trade, he will let or sell for more than a person without one, and many slave-holders
have their slaves taught trades on this account.  But before our time expired, my old master
wanted money; so he sold my brother, and then mortgaged my sister, a dear girl about fourteen
years of age, and myself, then about sixteen, to one of the banks, to get money to speculate
in cotton.  This we knew nothing of at the moment; but time rolled on, the money became due,
my master was unable to meet his payments; so the bank had us placed upon the auction stand
and sold to the highest bidder.

My poor sister was sold first: she was knocked down to a planter who resided at some distance
in the country.  Then I was called upon the stand.  While the auctioneer was crying the bids,
I saw the man that had purchased my sister getting her into a cart, to take her to his home.
I at once asked a slave friend who was standing near the platform, to run and ask the gentleman
if he would please to wait till I was sold, in order that I might have an opportunity of bidding
her good-bye.  He sent me word back that he had some distance to go, and could not wait.

I then turned to the auctioneer, fell upon my knees, and humbly prayed him to let me just step
down and bid my last sister farewell.  But, instead of granting me this request, he grasped
me by the neck, and in a commanding tone of voice, and with a violent oath, exclaimed, "Get
up!  You can do the wench no good; therefore there is no use in your seeing her."

On rising, I saw the cart in which she sat moving slowly off; and, as she clasped her hands
with a grasp that indicated despair, and looked pitifully round towards me, I also saw the
large silent tears trickling down her cheeks.  She made a farewell bow, and buried her face
in her lap.  This seemed more than I could bear.  It appeared to swell my aching heart to its
utmost.  But before I could fairly recover, the poor girl was gone;--gone, and I have never
had the good fortune to see her from that day to this!  Perhaps I should have never heard of
her again, had it not been for the untiring efforts of my good old mother, who became free
a few years ago by purchase, and, after a great deal of difficulty, found my sister residing
with a family in Mississippi.  My mother at once wrote to me, informing me of the fact, and
requesting me to do something to get her free; and I am happy to say that, partly by lecturing
occasionally, and through the sale of an engraving of my wife in the disguise in which she
escaped, together with the extreme kindness and generosity of Miss Burdett Coutts, Mr. George
Richardson of Plymouth, and a few other friends, I have nearly accomplished this. It would
be to me a great and ever-glorious achievement to restore my sister to our dear mother, from
whom she was forcibly driven in early life.

I was knocked down to the cashier of the bank to which we were mortgaged, and ordered to return
to the cabinet shop where I previously worked.

But the thought of the harsh auctioneer not allowing me to bid my dear sister farewell, sent
red-hot indignation darting like lightning through every vein.  It quenched my tears, and appeared
to set my brain on fire, and made me crave for power to avenge our wrongs!  But alas! we were
only slaves, and had no legal rights; consequently we were compelled to smother our wounded
feelings, and crouch beneath the iron heel of despotism.

I must now give the account of our escape; but, before doing so, it may be well to quote a
few passages from the fundamental laws of slavery; in order to give some idea of the legal
as well as the social tyranny from which we fled. 35.

The Constitution of Georgia has the following (Art. 4, sec. 12):--"Any person who shall maliciously
dismember or deprive a slave of life, shall suffer such punishment as would be inflicted in
case the like offence had been committed on a free white person, and on the like proof, except
in case of insurrection of such slave, and unless SUCH DEATH SHOULD HAPPEN BY ACCIDENT IN GIVING
SUCH SLAVE MODERATE CORRECTION."--Prince's Digest, 559.

I have known slaves to be beaten to death, but as they died under "moderate correction," it
was quite lawful; and of course the murderers were not interfered with.  But, should the bondman,
of his own accord, fight to defend his wife, or should his terrified daughter instinctively
raise her hand and strike the wretch who attempts to violate her chastity, he or she shall,
saith the model republican law, suffer death.

From having been myself a slave for nearly twenty-three years, I am quite prepared to say,
that the practical working of slavery is worse than the odious laws by which it is governed.

At an early age we were taken by the persons who held us as property to Macon, the largest
town in the interior of the State of Georgia, at which place we became acquainted with each
other for several years before our marriage; in fact, our marriage was postponed for some time
simply because one of the unjust and worse than Pagan laws under which we lived compelled all
children of slave mothers to follow their condition.  That is to say, the father of the slave
may be the President of the Republic; but if the mother should be a slave at the infant's birth,
the poor child is ever legally doomed to the same cruel fate.

It is a common practice for gentlemen (if I may call them such), moving in the highest circles
of society, to be the fathers of children by their slaves, whom they can and do sell with the
greatest impunity; and the more pious, beautiful, and virtuous the girls are, the greater the
price they bring, and that too for the most infamous purposes.

Any man with money (let him be ever such a rough brute), can buy a beautiful and virtuous girl,
and force her to live with him in a criminal connexion; and as the law says a slave shall have
no higher appeal than the mere will of the master, she cannot escape, unless it be by flight
or death.

In endeavouring to reconcile a girl to her fate, the master sometimes says that he would marry
her if it was not unlawful.*  However, he will always consider her to be his wife, and will
treat her as such; and she, on the other hand, may regard him as her lawful husband; and if
they have any children, they will be free and well educated.

I am in duty bound to add, that while a great majority of such men care nothing for the happiness
of the women with whom they live, nor for the children of whom they are the fathers, there
are those to be found, even in that heterogeneous mass of licentious monsters, who are true
to their pledges.  But as the woman and her children are legally the property of the man, who
stands in the anomalous relation to them of husband and father, as well as master, they are
liable to be seized and sold for his debts, should he become involved.

There are several cases on record where such persons have been sold and separated for life.
I know of some myself, but I have only space to glance at one.

I knew a very humane and wealthy gentleman, that bought a woman, with whom he lived as his
wife.  They brought up a family of children, among whom were three nearly white, well educated,
and beautiful girls.

* It is unlawful in the slave States for any one of purely European descent to intermarry with
a person of African extraction; though a white man may live with as many coloured women as
he pleases without materially damaging his reputation in Southern society.

On the father being suddenly killed it was found that he had not left a will; but, as the family
had always heard him say that he had no surviving relatives, they felt that their liberty and
property were quite secured to them, and, knowing the insults to which they were exposed, now
their protector was no more, they were making preparations to leave for a free State.

But, poor creatures, they were soon sadly undeceived.  A villain residing at a distance, hearing
of the circumstance, came forward and swore that he was a relative of the deceased; and as
this man bore, or assumed, Mr. Slator's name, the case was brought before one of those horrible
tribunals, presided over by a second Judge Jeffreys, and calling itself a court of justice,
but before whom no coloured person, nor an abolitionist, was ever known to get his full rights.

A verdict was given in favour of the plaintiff, whom the better portion of the community thought
had wilfully conspired to cheat the family.

The heartless wretch not only took the ordinary property, but actually had the aged and friendless
widow, and all her fatherless children, except Frank, a fine young man about twenty-two years
of age, and Mary, a very nice girl, a little younger than her brother, brought to the auction
stand and sold to the highest bidder.  Mrs. Slator had cash enough, that her husband and master
left, to purchase the liberty of herself and children; but on her attempting to do so, the
pusillanimous scoundrel, who had robbed them of their freedom, claimed the money as his property;
and, poor creature, she had to give it up.  According to law, as will be seen hereafter, a
slave cannot own anything.  The old lady never recovered from her sad affliction.

At the sale she was brought up first, and after being vulgarly criticised, in the presence
of all her distressed family, was sold to a cotton planter, who said he wanted the "proud old
critter to go to his plantation, to look after the little woolly heads, while their mammies
were working in the field."

When the sale was over, then came the separation, and

  "O, deep was the anguish of that slave mother's heart,
  When called from her darlings for ever to part;
  The poor mourning mother of reason bereft,
  Soon ended her sorrows, and sank cold in death."

Antoinette, the flower of the family, a girl who was much beloved by all who knew her, for
her Christ-like piety, dignity of manner, as well as her great talents and extreme beauty,
was bought by an uneducated and drunken salve-dealer.

  Why does she raise that bitter cry?
    Why hangs her head with shame,
  As now the auctioneer's rough voice
    So rudely calls her name!

  But see! she grasps a manly hand,
    And in a voice so low,
  As scarcely to be heard, she says,
    "My brother, must I go?"

  A moment's pause: then, midst a wail
    Of agonizing woe,
  His answer falls upon the ear,--
    "Yes, sister, you must go!

  No longer can my arm defend,
    No longer can I save
  My sister from the horrid fate
    That waits her as a SLAVE!"

The low trader said to a kind lady who wished to purchase Antoinette out of his hands, "I reckon
I'll not sell the smart critter for ten thousand dollars; I always wanted her for my own use."
The lady, wishing to remonstrate with him, commenced by saying, "You should remember, Sir,
that there is a just God."  Hoskens not understanding Mrs. Huston, interrupted her by saying,
"I does, and guess its monstrous kind an' him to send such likely niggers for our convenience."
Mrs. Huston finding that a long course of reckless wickedness, drunkenness, and vice, had destroyed
in Hoskens every noble impulse, left him.

Antoinette, poor girl, also seeing that there was no help for her, became frantic.  I can never
forget her cries of despair, when Hoskens gave the order for her to be taken to his house,
and locked in an upper room.  On Hoskens entering the apartment, in a state of intoxication,
a fearful struggle ensued.  The brave Antoinette broke loose from him, pitched herself head
foremost through the window, and fell upon the pavement below.

Her bruised but unpolluted body was soon picked up--restoratives brought--doctor called in;
but, alas! it was too late: her pure and noble spirit had fled away to be at rest in those
realms of endless bliss, "where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest."

Antoinette like many other noble women who are deprived of liberty, still

  "Holds something sacred, something undefiled;
  Some pledge and keepsake of their higher nature.
  And, like the diamond in the dark, retains
  Some quenchless gleam of the celestial light."

On Hoskens fully realizing the fact that his victim was no more, he exclaimed "By thunder I
am a used-up man!"  The sudden disappointment, and the loss of two thousand dollars, was more
than he could endure: so he drank more than ever, and in a short time died, raving mad with
delirium tremens.

The villain Slator said to Mrs. Huston, the kind lady who endeavoured to purchase Antoinette
from Hoskens, "Nobody needn't talk to me 'bout buying them ar likely niggers, for I'm not going
to sell em."  "But Mary is rather delicate," said Mrs. Huston, "and, being unaccustomed to
hard work, cannot do you much service on a plantation."  "I don't want her for the field,"
replied Slator, "but for another purpose."  Mrs. Huston understood what this meant, and instantly
exclaimed, "Oh, but she is your cousin!"  "The devil she is!" said Slator; and added, "Do you
mean to insult me, Madam, by saying that I am related to niggers?" "No," replied Mrs. Huston,
"I do not wish to offend you, Sir.  But wasn't Mr. Slator, Mary's father, your uncle?"  "Yes,
I calculate he was," said Slator; "but I want you and everybody to understand that I'm no kin
to his niggers."  "Oh, very well," said Mrs. Huston; adding, "Now what will you take for the
poor girl?"  "Nothin'," he replied; "for, as I said before, I'm not goin' to sell, so you needn't
trouble yourself no more.  If the critter behaves herself, I'll do as well by her as any man."

Slator spoke up boldly, but his manner and sheepish look clearly indicated that

  "His heart within him was at strife
    With such accursed gains;
  For he knew whose passions gave her life,
    Whose blood ran in her veins."

  "The monster led her from the door,
    He led her by the hand,
  To be his slave and paramour
    In a strange and distant land!"

Poor Frank and his sister were handcuffed together, and confined in prison.  Their dear little
twin brother and sister were sold, and taken where they knew not.  But it often happens that
misfortune causes those whom we counted dearest to shrink away; while it makes friends of those
whom we least expected to take any interest in our affairs.  Among the latter class Frank found
two comparatively new but faithful friends to watch the gloomy paths of the unhappy little twins.

In a day or two after the sale, Slator had two fast horses put to a large light van, and placed
in it a good many small but valuable things belonging to the distressed family.  He also took
with him Frank and Mary, as well as all the money for the spoil; and after treating all his
low friends and bystanders, and drinking deeply himself, he started in high glee for his home
in South Carolina.  But they had not proceeded many miles, before Frank and his sister discovered
that Slator was too drunk to drive.  But he, like most tipsy men, thought he was all right;
and as he had with him some of the ruined family's best brandy and wine, such as he had not
been accustomed to, and being a thirsty soul, he drank till the reins fell from his fingers,
and in attempting to catch them he tumbled out of the vehicle, and was unable to get up.  Frank
and Mary there and then contrived a plan by which to escape.  As they were still handcuffed
by one wrist each, they alighted, took from the drunken assassin's pocket the key, undid the
iron bracelets, and placed them upon Slator, who was better fitted to wear such ornaments.
As the demon lay unconscious of what was taking place, Frank and Mary took from him the large
sum of money that was realized at the sale, as well as that which Slator had so very meanly
obtained from their poor mother.  They then dragged him into the woods, tied him to a tree,
and left the inebriated robber to shift for himself, while they made good their escape to Savannah.
The fugitives being white, of course no one suspected that they were slaves.

Slator was not able to call any one to his rescue till late the next day; and as there were
no railroads in that part of the country at that time, it was not until late the following
day that Slator was able to get a party to join him for the chase.  A person informed Slator
that he had met a man and woman, in a trap, answering to the description of those whom he had
lost, driving furiously towards Savannah.  So Slator and several slavehunters on horseback
started off in full tilt, with their bloodhounds, in pursuit of Frank and Mary.

On arriving at Savannah, the hunters found that the fugitives had sold the horses and trap,
and embarked as free white persons, for New York. Slator's disappointment and rascality so
preyed upon his base mind, that he, like Judas, went and hanged himself.

As soon as Frank and Mary were safe, they endeavoured to redeem their good mother.  But, alas!
she was gone; she had passed on to the realm of spirit life.

In due time Frank learned from his friends in Georgia where his little brother and sister dwelt.
So he wrote at once to purchase them, but the persons with whom they lived would not sell them.
After failing in several attempts to buy them, Frank cultivated large whiskers and moustachios,
cut off his hair, put on a wig and glasses, and went down as a white man, and stopped in the
neighbourhood where his sister was; and after seeing her and also his little brother, arrangements
were made for them to meet at a particular place on a Sunday, which they did, and got safely off.

I saw Frank myself, when he came for the little twins.  Though I was then quite a lad, I well
remember being highly delighted by hearing him tell how nicely he and Mary had served Slator.

Frank had so completely disguised or changed his appearance that his little sister did not
know him, and would not speak till he showed their mother's likeness; the sight of which melted
her to tears,--for she knew the face.  Frank might have said to her

  "'O, Emma!  O, my sister, speak to me!
  Dost thou not know me, that I am thy brother?
  Come to me, little Emma, thou shalt dwell
  With me henceforth, and know no care or want.'
  Emma was silent for a space, as if
 'Twere hard to summon up a human voice."

Frank and Mary's mother was my wife's own dear aunt.

After this great diversion from our narrative, which I hope dear reader, you will excuse, I
shall return at once to it.

My wife was torn from her mother's embrace in childhood, and taken to a distant part of the
country.  She had seen so many other children separated from their parents in this cruel manner,
that the mere thought of her ever becoming the mother of a child, to linger out a miserable
existence under the wretched system of American slavery, appeared to fill her very soul with
horror; and as she had taken what I felt to be an important view of her condition, I did not,
at first, press the marriage, but agreed to assist her in trying to devise some plan by which
we might escape from our unhappy condition, and then be married.

We thought of plan after plan, but they all seemed crowded with insurmountable difficulties.
We knew it was unlawful for any public conveyance to take us as passengers, without our master's
consent.  We were also perfectly aware of the startling fact, that had we left without this
consent the professional slave-hunters would have soon had their ferocious bloodhounds baying
on our track, and in a short time we should have been dragged back to slavery, not to fill
the more favourable situations which we had just left, but to be separated for life, and put
to the very meanest and most laborious drudgery; or else have been tortured to death as examples,
in order to strike terror into the hearts of others, and thereby prevent them from even attempting
to escape from their cruel taskmasters.  It is a fact worthy of remark, that nothing seems
to give the slaveholders so much pleasure as the catching and torturing of fugitives.  They
had much rather take the keen and poisonous lash, and with it cut their poor trembling victims
to atoms, than allow one of them to escape to a free country, and expose the infamous system
from which he fled.

The greatest excitement prevails at a slave-hunt.  The slaveholders and their hired ruffians
appear to take more pleasure in this inhuman pursuit than English sportsmen do in chasing a
fox or a stag. Therefore, knowing what we should have been compelled to suffer, if caught and
taken back, we were more than anxious to hit upon a plan that would lead us safely to a land
of liberty.

But, after puzzling our brains for years, we were reluctantly driven to the sad conclusion,
that it was almost impossible to escape from slavery in Georgia, and travel 1,000 miles across
the slave States.  We therefore resolved to get the consent of our owners, be married, settle
down in slavery, and endeavour to make ourselves as comfortable as possible under that system;
but at the same time ever to keep our dim eyes steadily fixed upon the glimmering hope of liberty,
and earnestly pray God mercifully to assist us to escape from our unjust thraldom.

