'And if you have any curiosity to see it,' added the captain, 'I will place you where you may
see everything. It won't be long.'

It may be from my professional education, but the truth is, I have always been fond of witnessing
these melancholy spectacles; I persuade myself that I shall discover the solution of the enigma--death--on
the face of a man in full health, whose life is suddenly severed. I followed the captain. The
regiment was formed in a hollow square; in the rear of the second rank and near the edge of
the grove, some soldiers were digging a grave. They were commanded by the third lieutenant,
for in the regiment everything was done with order, and there is a certain form observed even
in the digging of a man's grave. In the centre of the hollow square eight officers were seated
on drums; a ninth officer was on their right, and some distance before them, negligently writing
something, and using his knees as his desk; he was evidently filling up the forms simply because
it was against the 'regulations' that a man should be killed without the usual forms. The accused
was called up. He was a tall, fine-looking young man, with a noble and gentle face. A woman
(the only witness in the cause) came up with him. But when the colonel began the examination
of the woman, the soldier stopped him, saying:

'It is useless asking her any questions. I am going to confess everything: I stole a handkerchief
in that lady's house.

THE COLONEL. What! Piter! You have been stealing! We all thought you incapable of such a thing!

PITER. It is true, Colonel, I have always tried to pass as an honest man, and a good fellow.
Oh! I tell you, it wan't for me I stole the handkerchief. 'Twas for Mary.

THE COLONEL. Who is Mary?

PITER. Mary? Oh! she lives yonder.... at home.... just outside of Areneberg.... don't you remember
the big apple-tree?.... Oh! I shall never see her again....

THE COLONEL. I don't understand you, Piter; explain yourself.

PITER. Why, Colonel.... but read this letter.

He gave the colonel a letter, which the latter read aloud, and every word of which was engraved
on my mind, and still is as present to my memory as though I heard them an hour ago. It was
as follows:

MY DEAR, DEAR PITER:--I take advantage of recruit Arnold's leaving, for he has enlisted in
your regiment, to send you this letter, and a silk purse I have made for you. Oh! I have hidden
from father to work it, for he is always scolding me for loving you so much, and is always
telling me that you will never come back. But you will come back, won't you! Even if you never
come back, I will always love you just the same. I promised myself to you the day you picked
up my blue handkerchief at the Areneberg dance, and brought it to me. Oh! when shall I see
you again? The only pleasure I have is to hear that your officers esteem you, and your comrades
love you. Everybody says you are an honest man and a good fellow. But you have still two years
to serve. Serve them quickly, because then we shall be married. Good-by, dear, dear Piter,
and believe me, your own dear

     MARY.

P.S. Try to send me, too, something from France, not because I'm afraid I shall forget you,
but I want something from you to carry always about me. Kiss what you send me. I know I shall
find at once where you kissed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the colonel finished reading the letter, Piter said:

'Arnold gave me this letter last night when I received my billet paper. For my life's sake
I could not sleep; I lay awake all night long, thinking of home and of Mary. She asked for
something from France. I had no money. I drew three months' advance last week to send home
to my brother and my cousin. This morning, when I got up to go, I opened my window. A blue
handkerchief was hanging on a clothes line; it looked like Mary's; it was the same color, the
same white lines; I was so weak as to take it, and put it in my knapsack. I went out into the
street; I was sorry for what I had done; I was going back to the house with it just when this
lady ran after me. The handkerchief was found in my knapsack. This is all the truth. The capitulation
orders me to be shot. Shoot me, but don't despise me.'

The judges could not conceal their emotion; but when the balloting took place, he was unanimously
condemned to death. He heard his sentence with sang-froid; after it was passed on him, he went
up to his captain and asked him to lend him four francs. The captain gave them to him. I then
saw Piter go to the woman to whom the blue handkerchief had been restored, and I heard him say:

'Madame, here are four francs; I don't know whether your handkerchief is worth more, but even
if it is, I pay dear enough for it to engage you to knock off the rest.'

Taking the handkerchief from her, he kissed it, and gave it to the captain.

'Captain,' said he, 'in two years you'll be returning home; when you go toward Areneberg, ask
for Mary; give her this blue handkerchief, but don't tell her how dearly I purchased it.'

Piter then kneeled and prayed fervently; when his prayers were ended, he arose and walked with
a firm step to the place of execution. I forgot that I was a scientific man, and I walked down
into the woods to avoid seeing the end of this cruel tragedy. A volley of musketry soon told
me that all was over.

I returned to the fatal spot an hour afterward; the regiment had marched away; all was calm
and silent. While following the edge of the grove, going to the highway, I perceived at a short
distance before me traces of blood, and a mound of freshly heaped earth. I took a branch from
one of the fir trees, and made a rude cross.

I placed it at the head of poor Piter's grave, now forgotten by every body except by me, and
perhaps by Mary.

GOLD.

Gold, next to iron, is the most widely diffused metal upon the surface of our globe. It occurs
in granite, the oldest rock known to us, and in all the rocks derived from it; it is also found
in the veinstones which traverse other geological formations, but has never been found in any
secondary formation. It is, however, much more common in alluvial grounds than among primitive
and pyrogenous rocks. It is found disseminated, under the form of spangles, in the silicious,
argillaceous, and ferruginous sands of certain plains and rivers, especially in their junction,
at the season of low water, and after storms and temporary floods. It is the only metal of
a yellow color; it is readily crystallizable, and always assumes one or more of the symmetrical
shapes, such as the cube or regular octahedron. It affords a resplendent polish, and may be
exposed to the atmosphere for any length of time, without suffering any change; it is remarkable
for its beauty; is nineteen times heavier than water, and, next to platinum, the heaviest known
substance; its malleability is such, that a cubic inch will cover thirty-five hundred square
feet; its ductility is such, that a lump of the value of four hundred dollars could be drawn
into a wire which would extend around the globe. In the early period of Grecian history the
quantity of the precious metals increased but slowly; the circulating medium did not increase
in proportion with the quantity of bullion. In the earliest days of Greece, the precious metals
existed in great abundance in the Levant. Cabul and Little Thibet (B.C. 500) were abundant
in gold. It seems to be a well ascertained fact, that it was obtained near the surface; so
that countries, which formerly yielded the metal in great abundance, are now entirely destitute
of it. Next to the darics were some coins of the reigns of the tyrants of Sicily: of Gelo (B.C.
491); of Hiero (B.C. 478); and of Dionysius (B.C, 404). Specimens of the two former are still
preserved in modern cabinets. Darics are supposed to be mentioned in the latter books of the
Old Testament, under the name of drams. Very few specimens of the daric have come down to us;
their scarcity may he accounted for by the fact that they were melted down under the type of
Alexander. Gold was also obtained by the Greeks from Asia Minor, the adjacent islands, which
possessed it in abundance, and from India, Arabia, Armenia, Colchis, and Troas. It was found
mixed with the sands of the Pactolus and other rivers. They were first issued in England A.D.
1257, in the shape of a penny. Florins were next issued, in 1344, of the value of six shillings.
The guinea was first issued in 1663, of Guinea gold. In 1733 all the gold coins--nobles, angels,
rials, crowns, units, lions, exurgats, etc., etc., were called in and forbidden to circulate.
The present sovereign was first issued in 1817.

From the commencement of the Christian era to the discovery of America, the amount of gold
obtained from the surface and bowels of the earth is estimated to be thirty-eight hundred millions
of dollars; from the date of the latter event to the close of 1842, an addition of twenty-eight
hundred millions was obtained. The discovery and extensive working of the Russian mines added,
to the close of 1852, six hundred millions more. The double discovery of the California mines
in 1848, and of the Australia mines in 1851 has added, to the present time, twenty-one hundred
millions; making a grand total of ninety-three hundred millions of dollars. The amount of gold
in existence, at the commencement of the Christian era, is estimated to be four hundred and
twenty-seven millions of dollars; at the period of the discovery of America, it had diminished
to fifty-seven millions; after the occurrence of that event, it gradually increased, and in
1600, it attained to one hundred and five millions; in 1700, to three hundred and fifty-one
millions; in 1800, to eleven hundred and twenty-five millions; in 1843, to two thousand millions;
in 1853 to three thousand millions; and at the present time, the amount of gold in existence
is estimated to be forty-eight hundred millions of dollars; which, welded into one mass, could
be contained in a cube of twenty-four feet. Of the amount now in existence, three thousand
millions is estimated to be in coin and bullion, and the remainder in watches, jewelry, plate,
etc., etc.

The Russian gold mines were discovered in 1819, and extend over one third of the circumference
of the globe, upon the parallel of 55° of north latitude. Their product, since their discovery
to the present time, has amounted to eight hundred millions of dollars. The California gold
mines were discovered by William Marshall, on the ninth day of February, 1848, at Sutter's
Mill, upon the American Fork, a tributary of the Sacramento, and extend from 34° to 49° of
north latitude. Their product, since their discovery to the present time, has amounted to one
thousand and forty-seven millions of dollars. The Australia gold mines were discovered by Edward
Hammond Hargraves, on the twelfth day of February, 1851, in the Bathurst and Wellington districts,
and extend from 30° to 38° of south latitude. Their product, since their discovery to the present
time, has amounted to nine hundred and eleven millions of dollars. The finest gold is obtained
at Ballurat, and the largest nugget yet obtained weighed twenty-two hundred and seventeen ounces,
valued at forty-one thousand dollars. In shape it resembled a continent with a peninsula attached
by a narrow isthmus. The annual product of gold at the commencement of the Christian era is
estimated at eight hundred thousand dollars; at the period of the discovery of America it had
diminished to one hundred thousand dollars; after the occurrence of that event it gradually
increased, and in 1600 it attained to two millions; and in 1700, to five millions; in 1800,
to fifteen millions; in 1843, to thirty-four millions; in 1850, to eighty-eight millions; in
1852, to two hundred and thirty-six millions; but owing to the falling off of the California
as well as the Australia mines, the product of the present year will not probably exceed one
hundred and ninety millions.

Since 1792 to the present time, the gold coinage of the United States mint has amounted to
seven hundred and forty millions of dollars, of which six hundred and fifty-five millions have
been issued since 1850. The gold coinage of the French mint, since 1726, has amounted to eighty-seven
hundred millions of francs, of which fifty-two hundred and fifty millions have been issued
since 1850. The gold coinage of the British mint, since 1603, has amounted to two hundred and
eighty millions of pounds sterling; of which seventy-five millions have been issued since 1850.
The gold coinage of the Russian mint, since 1664, has amounted to five hundred and twenty-six
millions of roubles, of which two hundred and sixty millions have been issued since 1850. The
sovereign of England contains one hundred and twelve grains of pure metal; the new doubloon
of Spain, one hundred and fifteen; the half eagle of the United States, one hundred and sixteen;
the gold lion of the Netherlands, and the double ounce of Sicily, one hundred and seventeen
grains each; the ducat of Austria, one hundred and six; the twenty-franc piece of France, ninety;
and the half imperial of Russia, ninety-one grains. A commissioner has been despatched by the
United States Government to England, France, and other countries of Europe, to confer with
their respective governments upon the expediency of adopting a uniform system of coinage throughout
the world, so that the coins of one country may circulate in any other, without the expense
of recoinage--a consummation most devoutly to be wished.

The fact that the large amount of gold which has been thrown into the monetary circulation
of the world within the last fourteen years, has exercised so little influence upon the money
market or prices generally, is at variance with the predictions of financial writers upon both
sides of the Atlantic. The increase in the present production of gold, compared with former
periods, is enormous; and it would not be surprising if, in view of the explorations which
are going on in Africa, Japan, Borneo, and other countries bordering upon the equator, the
product of the precious metals within the next decade should be a million of dollars daily.
The price of gold has not diminished, although the annual product has increased fivefold within
twenty years.

LAST WORDS.

I am at last resolved. This taunting devil shall possess me no longer. At least I will meet
him face to face. I have read that the face of a dead man is as though he understood the cause
of all things, and was therefore profoundly at rest, I will know the cause of my wretched fate,
and will be at rest. My pistols lie loaded by my side--I shall die to-night. To-morrow, twelve
awestruck and trembling men will come and look at me. They will ask each other: 'What could
have been his motive for the rash act.' Rash! my face will be calmer than theirs, for my struggles
in this life will be over; and I shall have gained--perhaps knowledge, perhaps oblivion, but
certainly victory. And to-night, as the clock strikes twelve, there will be shrieks and horror
in this room. No matter: I shall have been more kind to those who utter them than they know
of, for they will not have known the cause until they have read these lines.

And yet most people would esteem me a happy man. I am rich in all that the world calls riches.
I sit in a room filled with luxuries; a few steps would bring me into the midst of guests,
among whom are noble men and women, sweet music, rare perfumes, glitter and costly show. My
life has been spent amid the influences of kind friends, good parents, and culture in all that
is highest and worthiest in literature and art; and I can recall scenes as I write, of days
that would have been most happy but for the blight that has been upon me always. I think I
see now the pleasant parlor in the old house at home. Here sits our mother, a little gray,
but brisk and merry as a cricket; there our father, a well-preserved gentleman of fifty, rather
gratified at feeling the first aristocratic twinges of gout, and whose double eyeglass is a
chief feature in all he says; there is Bill, poring over Sir William Napier's 'Peninsular War;'
there is Charles, just rushing in, with a face the principal features in which are redness
and hair, to tell us that there is another otter in the mill stream in the meadow; there is
my little sister, holding grave talk with dear Dollie, and best (or worst) of all, there is
cousin Lucy--cousin Lucy, with her brown hair, and soft, loving eyes and quiet ways. Where
are they all now? Charley went to London, was first the favorite of the clubs, next a heartless
rake, and finally, being worn out, and, like Solomon, convinced that all was vanity, went into
the Church to become that most contemptible of all creatures, a fashionable preacher; my father
and mother are laid side by side in the aisle of the old church on the hill, where their virtues
are sculptured in marble, for the information of anxiously curious mankind; sister Mary no
longer talks to dolls, though a flock of little girls, who call her mother, do. Bill, poor
Bill, lies far away in the Crimea, with the bullet of a gray-coated Russian in his heart. And
Lucy--but it is to her I owe what I am, and what I am about to do.

I loved her--love her still. Will she know what these words mean, when she finds them here?
I cannot tell. They are enough for me. Not for you are they written, ball-room lounger, whispering
of endless devotion between every qaudrille; not to you, proud beauty, taking and absorbing
declarations as you would an ice; not for you, chattering monkey of the Champs Elyseés, raving
of your grande passion for Eloise, so charmante, so spirituelle; nor for you, Eloise aforesaid,
with your devilish devices, stringing hearts in your girdle as Indians do scalps; not for you,
dancing Spaniard, with your eternal castagnets, whispering just one word to your dark-eyed
señorita, as you hand her another perfumed cigarette; not for you, lounging Italian, hissing
intrigues under the shadow of an Athenian portico, or stealing after your veiled incognita,
as her shadow flits over the place where the blood of Cæsar dyed the floor of the Capitol,
or where the knife of Virginius flashed in the summer sun--not for one of you, for I have seen
and despise you all. To you all love is a sealed book, which you shall never open--a tree of
knowledge that will never turn into a curse for you--a beautiful serpent that, as you gaze
upon its changing hues, will never sting you to the death.

I never told her. I would wait for hours to see her pass, if she went out alone--but I never
told her. I would trace her footsteps where she had taken her daily walk; I would wait beneath
her window at night, to see but her shadow upon the blind, until she put out her lamp, and
left the stars and myself the only watchers there--but I never told her. I would lay flowers
in her way, happy if she wore them on her bosom, or wreathed them in her hair, as she sometimes
would--but she never knew from whom they came. I sickened at my heart for her; I pined, oh!
how I pined for her, and worshipped her as a saint, the hope, the glory, the heaven of my life--but
I never told her.

