About June 4th, the Federals disappeared from our front at New Hope church, and we moved back
and toward Lost mountain and the railroad which we crossed the next day, and on June 8th, went
into position on a ridge overlooking Big Shanty Station, being on the east side of railroad.
This new line came to be known as the Pine Mountain line. Here we entrenched. On June 11th,
we saw a rifle battery near Big Shanty firing on our lines to the left. We fired on them. They
replied. Our trenches were a little below the top of the hill, with the limber chests exposed,
being higher than the works. Lumsden ordered them to be run down close behind the works, which
was done. But one Federal shell exploded one of the chests while it was being moved. Sergt.
J. Mack Shivers was shoving it at the time but escaped much injury. The Yankee battery withdrew
from the open, and we shortly after, heard of Gen Polk's death. We always believed that we
were firing on the battery that killed him. During all this time we were having heavy rains
every day. We have an idea that the whole army was wet to the skin every day in June. One great
trouble was to keep our corn bread dry until we could eat it. But wet bread could be turned
into "hot cush," whenever we stopped long enough to have a fire and the weather being warm,
our clothing would get moderately dry between showers. The men had by this time gotton pretty
tough, and looked tough, and like a set of toughs.

Falling back on June 15th, from the Pine mountain line, to the Kennesaw mountain line, to face
Sherman, who was flanking to our left, the battery first took position close to the top of
the main spur of the mountain, a little to the right and north of the top and entrenched along
with a lot of infantry. The only Federals who got within our range at this position were a
lot that crowded around a railroad water tank, at the foot of the mountain. We put a few shells
through the tank scattering both Yanks and water. But the Yanks put a rifle battery off in
the valley, out of our reach and went to work on us scientifically. They figured out our range
and the very first shell burst about three feet exactly over our breastworks, and the next
one or so killed one of our men, named Blackstock, a Georgian. A splinter clipped Horace Martin's
ear--marked him. Lt. Hargrove was on the bare top of the mountain to see what he could see.
They fired at him and the shell struck the ground in his front, and ricochetted over his head,
end over end. It was certainly fine shooting and sport for those rifle gunners, and doubtless
they enjoyed it. We certainly did not, but each got to a safe place and kept it, as soon as
we found what those fellows could do at over a mile distance. This was on June 19th. As this
position was a worthless one for our guns, we were ordered down and moved to the south edge
of Little Rinnew, relieving another battery. The change was made during the night, and Lumsden
was told that it was a hot place. So we worked on the entrenchments from about midnight when
we had arrived until daylight. We made good embrasures, thickened the works in our front and
dug trenches for our caisson wheels close behind works, so that axles lay on the ground. The
limber chests were taken from gun carriages and placed on ground close up to the works. That
afternoon, Col. Alexander, in command of the artillery along this line, came along and Capt.
Lumsden told him that he'd like to find out what the enemy had over there. Col. Alexander told
Lumsden, "Well, open on them and I'll order the rifle battery further up little Kennesaw to
your right to support you." Lumsden gave him time to get up to the rifle battery, and then
came his command: "Cannoneers to your posts!" Each gunner was told where to aim, and the estimated
distance. Then: "Load! Battery ready! Fire!" Those Yankees opened on our four-gun battery,
with twenty-four guns and the dirt was soon flying over and around us. We fired rapidly and
so did the rifle battery, but directly a shell came through number 3 embrasure, killed Gurley,
standing erect with thumb on vent, plunged into caisson just behind and exploded all three
chests thereon. The flame exploded a cartridge lying on limber chest next to the breastwork
and our own shell went rolling around promiscuously. Lt. Hargrove grabbed a slush bucket and
proceeded to pour water into the limber chest with the smashed top, where fuses were fizzling
and friction primers crackling in the tray above the loaded cartridges thereon. Some of the
boys yelled at him to let that thing go, but he poured that water on, and put out those fuses.
Every fellow was dodging our own shells for a few minutes.

A tin strap from one of the sabots struck Corporal John Watson on the tight seat of his pants,
and he dropped flat, with his hands clapped on the place where he had felt the blow, yelling:
"Oh, I'm wounded, I'm wounded." The laugh was on him, when it was found that his pants were
not even split.

Gracious! How those Yanks did yell, when the column of smoke went high in the air from our
exploded caisson. Well, all the satisfaction we got out of the affair, was that "We found out,
what the enemy had over there," and we did not stir up that hornet's nest again. Occasionally,
they would plug at us, but we would lie low and not reply. One of their 24-lb. rifled parrot
shells ricochetted over from the front one day with out exploding. Some of the men got it unscrewed
the percussion fuse from its point and poured out a lot of powder, then dug out some more with
a sharp stick, until they thought it was about empty. Then private Dan Kelly, got hold of it,
stooped down to a flat rock and jolted the point down on the rock. It struck fire, exploded
and tore Kelly's arm and hand all to pieces. He was sent to hospital, then home, and I think
died from the wound.

We more than evened up on the Yanks, a few days after, on June 27th, when Thomas's and McPherson's
corps swarmed over their works and started for our lines in a determined assault. We filled
the skirt of woods in front, full of shells until their lines appeared in the open, and then
we swept the earth with canister and over their line of infantry made every bullet count, so
that in our immediate front, they did not get nearer than 150 yards, and had to rush back to
cover of their own entrenchments. Our command had no causalities that day, but many Federals
were buried in trenches in our front, their total loss officially reported in the assault was
2,500.

Here is what is recorded in Federal official records:

    "He (Sherman) Resolved: To attack the left center of Johnston's
    position, and orders were given on the 24th, that on the 27th,
    McPherson should assault near Little Kennesaw mountain (our
    position,) and that Thomas should assault about a mile further
    south, (to our left). Kennesaw was strongly entrenched, and held by
    Loring's and Hardee's corps, Loring on the right, opposite
    McPherson and Hardee on the left opposite Thomas. About 9:00 a.m.
    of the 27th, the troops moved to the assault and all along the line
    for ten miles a furious fire of artillery and musketry was kept up.
    A part of Logan's 15th corps, formed in two lines, fought its way
    up to the slope of Little Kennesaw, carried the confederate
    skirmish pits and tried to go further, but was checked by the rough
    nature of the ground, and the fire of artillery and musketry at
    short range from behind breastworks. Logan's assault failed with a
    loss of 600 men, and his troops were withdrawn to the captured
    skirmish pits * * * The assault was over by 11:30 a.m., and was a
    failure.

It was the most serious reverse sustained by Sherman during the campaign. The entire Union
loss was nearly 2,500.

Johnston admits a Confederate loss of 808 killed and wounded. That ended Sherman's attempt
to force our lines, and started his flanking operations again. Soon we were ordered back southwest
of the Chattahoochee river, where we occupied a fort, overlooking the Western & Atlantic railroad
bridge, and were soon faced by the enemy with infantry and artillery again entrenched, with
a rifle battery on opposite side of river three-quarters of a mile away. They would occasionally
try a little target practice at our fort. Our orders were to refrain from firing unless an
attempt was made to cross the river. On our side there was merely infantry enough to picket
the river.

The fort was an enclosed one, i.e., had parapet all around, and embrassures in all directions,
as if built to stand a siege even if entirely surrounded by the enemy. Our four guns were its
whole armament however, fronting the river and its destroyed bridge below us.

We here bivouaced at ease. The slope in rear of fort had some shade bushes and formed a comparatively
safe camping grounds, but we lost one man here who was in rear of, and outside of the fort.
A rifle shell just missed the front parapet, cut a furrow in the rear parapet, and took off
the head of a private, named Maner, another Georgian. Some of us who were inside the fort saw
his straw hat rise ten feet in the air and knew that another comrade had gone.

Here, on July 17th, at evening roll call, technically named the "Retreat" call, the memorable
order was read to our command, relieving Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, and placing Gen. J. B. Hood,
in command of the army. It was received in dead silence, and figuratively speaking "our hearts
went down into our boots," or whatever happened to be covering our heel.

The army had still the fullest confidence in Johnston. They knew that for more than two months
he had baffled Sherman in spite of his overpowering force of two to one, and had inflicted
heavy losses on the enemy, with small loss to his own army either in men or material. They
idolized Johnston and were ready to fight, whenever Johnston was ready. They believed "Old
Joe" knew his business, and did not believe that Sherman could hold on to his line of supplies,
and still surround the city. They believed that President Davis had made a terrible mistake,
and that belief remains to the officers and men of the army of Tennessee to this day. They
admired Hood, his personal character and gallantry, but they believed in Johnston as second
only to Robert E. Lee, and that the Confederacy did not hold another man who could so well
serve her.

Sherman moving the main portion of his army towards the northeast, covered by the Chattahoochee,
but still holding the W. & A. railroad with his right wing, our battery was ordered to report
to Gen. Wheeler, who with his cavalry was on the extreme right of our army. We were placed
in position on the bank of the Chattahoochee, where a ravine entered the river at a very acute
angle, forming a narrow ridge between river and ravine, so that by cutting down into the ground
and throwing the dirt out toward the ravine, we made level places for our guns with a solid
wall of earth as high as the muzzle of our guns, overlooking the slope toward the river, the
hills opposite, and the Federal entrenchments along the upper edge of the fields with an embrasured
battery in view. Our entrenchment, as described, made no show. We were there simply to guard
against an easy crossing at this point.

Lt. A. C. Hargrove, next day was standing at the parapet near muzzle of 3rd piece talking to
Corporal Maxwell, who was gunner to that piece. A puff of smoke came from a Federal embrasure
across the river and both squatted below the protecting bank. The shell struck the body of
an oak tree standing just in front, and some twenty feet above the ground, tearing off a heavy
fragment, slightly larger than a man's forearm, which came down with force, the end cutting
through Hargroves' hat on his forehead and to the skull, a gash two inches long. Maxwell said:
"Lieut., they are cutting at us close," still looking to the front. Hargrove said: "Well, they
got me." Maxwell turned around and there stooped Hargrove, hat on ground, and his hands to
his head, with blood gushing through his fingers all down over him. He was much stunned with
the blow, but when Maxwell spread the lips of the wound, and the blood ran out, the solid skull
of his forehead showed uncrutched. Nevertheless the blow threatened concussion of the brain,
and he was sent home for several weeks. Dr. N. P. Marlowe, then surgeon with Wheeler's corps
taking him in his own ambulance to the Hospital, after dressing his wound.

The enemy crossing in force, lower down the river, our battery was retired from this position
and placed on the main line of defense northeast of Atlanta, and was soon faced by the enemy
again, after the battle of Peachtree Creek, with his entrenchments forming quite an angle in
our front, some 800 yards away, but his lines stretched from that angle almost perpendicularly
away from us toward his left.

On July 22nd, Hardee's corps of Confederates attacked Sherman's left and drove it for a long
distance back toward his center. The right of this fleeing corps came into our range making
for the protection of their works at this angle and Lumsden's guns shelled them just in front
of their own works as they reached them, we firing over the heads of the Georgia militia, who
were pushed forward across the valley as if to join in an assault, but were soon returned to
their works after considerable loss.

Seeing these old citizens wounded and dying struck us with sympathy, with somewhat of the same
feelings we might have experienced at seeing a lot of women sacrificed. They started in the
charge, had withdrawn to the trenches again. We were accustomed to that with regular soldiers,
but the sacrifice of these old citizens affected us to an unusual degree.

Being relieved from this position, by a battery attached to an infantry brigade that now occupied
these trenches, we were sent to the rear and parked near a stream south of Atlanta to wash
up clothing and rest a bit. But before our washing was dry, orders came to rush the battery
to a position some five miles southwest of Atlanta. We went at a gallop, or trot, or walk as
fast as we could rush the guns and caissons. With the cannoneers hanging on as best they could.
Reaching the position just in time, meeting our infantry slowly falling back, before the enemy,
fighting as they retreated. We rushed "into battery," on a hill at edge of open field, with
the Federal infantry already past the way across the field and opened on them with our usual
rapid fire. In ten minutes not a Federal could be seen except the few wounded or dead left behind.

It was a terribly hot July afternoon and the men with jackets, blankets, haversacks and all
else possible strewn on the ground were panting like dogs, and so wet with sweat as if just
out of a river, when they threw themselves down in the shade of the trees on the edge of the
field after the firing ceased with the disappearance of the enemy. We had not lost a man. Our
arrival and work was so quick that the enemy rushed to the rear at once to the cover of the
forest. Our guns used some 33 or 34 rounds each in the short time in action.

All night infantry and artillery men worked with every available tool, down to the bayonet
to loosen up the earth, and half of a split canteen to throw up the dirt and next morning found
us entrenched in our new line. But on the other edge of the field, the Yankee trenches showed
up some 800 yards away.

In this position Lumsden's battery remained nearly all the month of August. Every few days
we would have an artillery duel with the rifle battery opposite. Sherman was now extending
his right wing, which finally led to the assault of Love Joy station, on the road south of
Atlanta. He had also brought down siege guns, that fired shells about the size of nail keg,
and was shelling the city. One Sunday we had a particularly fierce duel with our opponents.
It happened that the embrasure of the 3rd piece flared a little more squarely to the front
of the others. Three whole shells struck the 3rd gun during the action, each coming through
the embrasure only about one foot in width. One struck on top between trunnions and vent, gouging
out the brass like a half round chisel would have gouged a piece of wood, and glanced on to
the rear. The second struck gun carriage on left cheek, just in front of left trunnion and
went into small fragments in every direction. The third struck the edge of the muzzle, and
crushed it so that we could get no more shells into the gun. It was ruined temporarily, and
had to be sent to the arsenal at Macon.

About this time, Gen. Hardee and staff rode up. He inquired: "What's the matter here?" "Nothing,"
said Lumsden, "but those fellows opened on us and I make it a point to give as good as they
send." "Well, cease firing its doing no good, and we must husband our ammunition." Old man
Lane had the front end of one foot cut off by a piece of shell. He was bringing up an armfull
of cartridges from the caissons under the hill at the time, but did not throw down his load
until he brought it to the gun, loudly proclaiming, that he hoped these shells would pay them
back for his wound. But that was the end of his service in our army. He was over conscript
age, but came as a substitute for some one who could pay for a man to take his place.

I believe that he was the only man struck that day in our company, but in rear of the 3rd gun
that had been put out of action, a bunch of canteens, hanging on a forked post were all rendered
useless by pieces of shell or bullets coming through the embrasure. The Yankee three-inch rifle
was a dead shot at any distance under a mile. They could hit the head of a flour barrel more
often than miss, unless the gunner got rattled. The shell consisted of three parts, a conical
head with smaller cylinderical base, a cap to fit, that base loosely and a ring of lead that
connected the head and base. When fired the cap at butt was thrown forward on the cylinderical
base of the cone, expanding the lead ring into the grooves of the rifle, the cone exploding
by percussion cap on striking. It was the most accurate field piece of that date. Our smooth
bore 12 pounders were always at a disadvantage in artillery duels, but with time fuses and
at masses of men, or at a battery in open field, 800 to 1,000 yards, they did good service,
and with canisters they could sweep the earth.

After Lovejoy's station, we were moved up to the city, and put into a casemated fort for a
short time in the outskirts of the city, whilst evacuation was going on, and were among the
last of the commands to leave the doomed town, whence we retreated with a portion of the infantry
toward Macon, Ga. Burning stores of all kinds were located by the soldiers, mail cars sacked,
and letters and packages of all kinds gone through at road side fires in search of money, the
useless letters feeding the fire. This was on the night of September 2, 1864. Rations on the
retreat got very short and for once our men were forced to live off the country. When bivouac
was made for the night above Macon, for the success of our own particular mess, all scattered
after "retreat" roll call in different directions. About midnight they had all come in, and
pots, kettles, ovens, and hot coals were in demand. Henry Donoho had shelled out about a peck
of cornfield beans from the nearly ripe pods in the fields.

Walter Guild turned up with a long stick across his shoulder, with two large pumpkins stuck
on each end. Ed King and Jim Maxwell each had a sack of sweet potatoes, grabbled in a field
a mile and a half away.

The Rosser boys had corn too hard for roasting, but all right to grate on an old half canteen
grater.

Rube, Aleck Dearing's servant had half a shoat and Jim Bobbett, my own servant, had two ducks.

Some one owned a big brass kettle, that would hold about half a barrel, which the wagons hauled,
and it was soon on the fire, filled with the sliced pumpkins, to be stewed down. Some did one
thing, and some another, and by an hour before day, that feast was ready, and several more
along the same lines in the camp. We ate our fill, filled haversacks, distributed the balance
to whoever wanted it and were ready to move at daylight. I believe that it was the only meal
I remember during the war, where everything was the proceeds of plunder.

We had been pretty close to a famine for a day or two, but this was surely a feast.

It was all contrary to military law, but soldiers were not going to sit still and starve, when
something to eat could be had out of the fields for the taking, and the officers could not
be expected to sit up nights to come around and inspect our pots and kettles, and if they did,
they could prove nothing, and so, for the occasion and the recognizing necessity, nothing was
ever said about it. The men were on hand ready and able to do duty, and the tangle of the crisis
was soon straightened out and our rations coming through the regular channels. From Macon,
by way of Griffin, where a few days were spent in camp and thence to West Point on the Georgia-Alabama
line, where preparations were made to cut loose from the railroad, and traverse northeast Alabama
with Hood's army to strike for middle Tennessee by way of Decatur and Florence, west of the
mountains. This was now ----, so that we had been months and days in reaching in a roundabout
manner since the fall of Atlanta, on Sept. 2. Hood's infantry and cavalry had been somewhere
south, and southwest of Atlanta. Sherman was fixing to destroy, and strike out southeast across
Georgia, and Hood was preparing to strike out for middle Tennessee and Nashville.

With our guns and wagons, we joined the army wagon train, making its way northwestward, during
a very rainy spell of weather. Traveling through the flat piney woods was awful. The white
loblolly mud was often axle deep in the road, and turning out in these flats did not seem to
better the matter much.

The writer had now been appointed a Sergeant, and been given a pie bald pony to ride at the
head of his 4th Detachment of gun caisson. One day his pony got both feet on same side into
a deep rut under the loblolly and down flat broadside he went and the writer disappeared. When
he emerged he was greeted with the well known yell, "Come out of that, I see your ears sticking
out." When the mud dried, it flaked off and I was not much worse off temporarily than the balance
of the crowd and they were welcome to the fun.

Finally, we reached the Tennessee valley, in Morgan County, and marched westward. The sites
of the old plantation homes were now marked only by groups of chimneys, the plantations a dreary
waste. Reaching vicinity of Decatur about ---- we found it garrisoned by a Federal force with
entrenchments, but Hood's objective point for crossing the Tennessee river was between Tuscumbia
and Florence. Near Tuscumbia, our battery was again in camp for a few days. As from West Point
to Florence in a direct line is about 200 miles by the route traveled by us 250 or 275 miles
of continuous march. We were not sorry to get a chance to rest, wash, clean and repair up.
Here, in the garden spot of Alabama, prior to the war, food was scarce. The beef issued to
us could not produce a bead of fat, on the top of the pot, when boiled. Bacon or salt pork,
when we got any was generally rancid. But we got here one unusual luxury in the way of food,
a fine young fat mule had its back broken by the fall of a tree, cut down in camp. So it was
killed and the boys took possession and divided it out. It was very fat. The fat from its "innards"
was "tryed" out like oil and saved in bottles and cans for "breadshortening" for which it answered
well. The meat was very fine, much better than any beef we had gotton for a long time. But
the boys made all sorts of fun over it. We had some left to carry along on the march, and a
soldier would pull out a hunk from his haversack, throw up his head and let out a big mule
bray, "a-h-h-h u-n-k, a-h-h-h u-n-k, a-h-h-h u-n-k," bite off a mouth full and go to chewing.

The crossing of the Tennessee on the night of Nov. 20, 1864, over a pontoon bridge at south
Florence was to officers and men of Lumsden's battery only one of many disagreeable experiences.
No more than our whole army had gotton used to experiencing in such campaigns in all sorts
of weather and conditions, its locality merely makes it stand out in the memory, a little more
prominently than other such experiences. Notified in the afternoon to be ready in our turn
to cross over, then again to fall into the line on the South bank after dusk; moving on to
the bridge after dark, and occupying several hours in crossing, moving a few paces in the bridge,
then halting and standing shivering in a drizzling rain, until again a few paces could be gained.
Then at the north bank, getting our teams up the steep banks through mud axle deep, by doubling
teams and all hands at the wheels and getting through the night, hovering over roadside fires
along streets of Florence and roads beyond until daylight brought a possibility of finding
a place to make a temporary halt for feed and rest for man and beast.

On November 27th, reaching the vicinity of Columbia, where Schofield was entrenched with an
army of about the same size as Hood's, a demonstration was made of an attack on his lines,
but the main position of our army crossed Duck river above Columbia and struck for Spring Hill
on the turn pike between Columbia and Franklin.

On 29th, the Battalion of Reserve Artillery was ordered to leave guns and caissons, with horses
and drivers, under charge of one Commissioned officer south of Duck river. The captains, two
Lieuts., Non-Commissioned officers and cannoneers were ordered to follow the infantry brigades;
the object being to be able to man any batteries that might be captured from the enemy in this
move against his rear. Lumsden was ordered to report to Brig. Gen. Reynolds and to keep right
up with his brigade under all circumstances. It was nearly dark when we found ourselves in
a half mile of Spring Hill, and there, we remained all night, without any attack being delivered
on the enemy hurrying northward along the pike, wagons, artillery and all other vehicles kept
on a rush with their infantry on east side of the pike to protect against our attack.

Time was lost during the day in building rough bridges across creeks waist deep to infantry,
which had better have been waded, for the few hours so lost, prevented a successful attack
at Spring Hill which Hood had planned to demolish Schofield.

Forrest was trying to delay their advance toward Franklin, and sometimes succeeded in getting
possession of pike for a short time, capturing teamsters shooting down teams in their harness
and setting fire to their wagons.

But their rear passed Spring Hill before daylight the next morning, with Hood's infantry pursuing
their rearguard closely into Franklin, where a strong line of entrenchments had been prepared
around the edge of the city from Harpeth river above the same below town, and a strong line
of rifle pits out in front of the regular trenches.

On the afternoon of Nov. 30, 1864, Hood attacked these entrenchments about 4:00 p.m. Reynolds'
brigade was on the right of the pike, somewhat to the right of the historic genhouse. As this
brigade started in the charge on the first line of rifle pits, Lumsden's command was close
behind with no weapons but their bare hands. Gen. Reynolds noticed it and riding up called
out to Capt. Lumsden: "Captain, take your men back behind the hill to our rear." And so it
was done; though as soon as our infantry reached the valley and the bullets ceased to fly so
thickly about the top of the hill, the whole company was soon at the top of the ridge, watching
the terrible struggle in our front over the Federal entrenchments on the outskirts of Franklin.

Away in the night, the flashing rifles revealed the firing of two armies with a bank of six
feet of earth between them, until finally it gradually ceased. Before daylight we got certain
intelligence that the enemy was gone through Corporal Tom Owen, gunner to 2nd piece, who with
another prospecting companion or two had been into the town and returned with a bucket of molasses
and some other eatables.

Here we were left by Gen. Reynolds' brigade, and where our horses, guns and caissons came up,
Lumsden's battery was again in its usual fighting trim, and moved on to Nashville where it
was on Dec. 4th, in the front trenches on the left of the Grannary White Pike, in the yard
of a fine brick house, which the enemy had destroyed just outside of their fortifications,
known as the "Gales house". Our lines were so close to those of the enemy across a narrow valley
of cleared fields, that no one could expose any portion of his body on either work, without
drawing the fire of his enemy opposite. Some of the boys found good quarters inside of the
old furnace, within a few steps of our guns, those of us in the outside wishing there were
a few more furnaces. Talk about not dodging! Whenever one of us had to move about, he had to
dodge from one cover to another. But there was one comfort, our infantry kept our enemies dodging
also. About Dec. 10th, we were relieved from this position by another battery, and ordered
to the extreme left of the army and put in position on a small hill, about 700 yards west of
the Hillsboro pike, opposite the house of Robert Castleman, who lived on the east side of said
pike some three and a half miles south of Nashville, and three quarters of a mile, southwest
from the extreme western end of Hood's line, on the Hillsboro pike. Here, we were ordered to
entrench.

    [The description of the duty to which Lumsden's Battery was
    assigned in the battle of Nashville on December 15th, 1864 was lost
    in some way and not printed in Lumsden's Battery History where it
    belongs near the top of Page 56 just after the sentence "Here we
    were ordered to entrench".

    The omission was not noticed until after the volumes had all been
    printed.

    These special pages must therefore be put in an insert and read in
    their proper place, after which again the history takes up the
    further retreat of the remnant out of Tennessee.]

  Major John Foster of the Engineers, with a detail of 100 men had
  already started on the work. Hood's orders were that it should be a
  regular fort enclosing the top of hill. As yet, it was simply a
  redoubt, facing a ridge some 800 yards away that ran nearly
  perpendicularly to the general direction of the army's line of battle
  at the extreme left end of the army. Between the ridge and the
  location of redoubt were cultivated fields, and had been some woods,
  through which Richland Creek meandered towards the north west. The
  woods our engineers had cut down, so as to give an uninterrupted view
  of the lands in our front, and gave a cover for skirmishers who might
  be driven back towards redoubt and also gave cover for an enemy line
  of skirmishers to approach to within 100 yards of redoubt under
  cover, when they had driven back the defending skirmishers.

  Major Foster's force had started the redoubt shortly after the
  remnant of Hood's Army (after Franklin) had aligned itself before
  Nashville and entrenched somewhere about December 1st to 3rd, it
  being perhaps a mile or more from extreme left of Hood's Army to the
  Cumberland River. Gen. Chalmers with Cavalry, and the remnant of
  Ector's Brigade of infantry as a support, guarding the gaps between
  left of Hood's entrenchments at Hillsboro pike, to Cumberland River.
  From the date of our arrival at fort location we had rain snow, and
  sleet, and the ground frozen hard, so that it was impossible to make
  any rapid progress on the redoubt laid off for 4 embrasures for our 4
  Napoleon guns. Stretched blankets and the tarpaulins from for our
  guns and ammunition were the only cover for officers or men. I well
  remember that, the day before the battle of the 15th, my servant Jim
  Bobbett brought me a change of clean under clothing, for which I had
  to scrape off the snow on a log at Richland Creek, strip and bathe in
  its icy waters to make a change.

  By the 15th (the day of the battle) we had manerals so long. At my
  gun we had lost private Horton and Corporal Gunner Ed. King. Hilen L.
  Rosser at another gun had part of his head shot away. That night as I
  was pouring some water for Lumsden to wash, he was picking something
  out of his beard, and said: "Maxwell, that is part of Rosser's
  brains", out of the 40 men that we had at guns, we had only 22 left,
  balance having been killed or captured. A Federal officer rode around
  Lieut. A. C. Hargrove and demanded his surrender, and cut down at his
  head with his sabre. Hargrove caught the blow on his arm, but it beat
  down his arm to his head enough to "hurt like thunder", as Hargrove
  expressed it.

  Hargrove grabbed a loose tree branch and struck at Yank's horse which
  about that time got a bullet from our infantry line and ran away from
  Hargrove, so that he made it to our new line.

  That night we buried Horton near the Franklin pike, where we
  bivouaced. I cut his name on a head board, and Command to which he
  belonged.

  A detail was sent to the house that had been used as a hospital to
  bring his body. A long, tall, red-headed private, John Walker, was
  one of that detail. He had been carrying a great long navy revolver
  for months for use in such circumstances. When asked how many times
  he shot it. He laughed and said it was as much as he could do to
  persuade himself that he was able to get out with it.

  It was about 12 o'clock that Capt. Lumsden sent orderly Sergeant J.
  Mack Shivers on horseback to report to General Stewart that all
  Confederate infantry had been driven into the fallen timber at our
  front, and that it was evident the enemy would soon rush us with a
  charge. That we could leave the guns and get away with all the men.

  Shivers returned with the orders, "Tell Captain Lumsden it is
  necessary to hold the enemy in check to the last minute regardless of
  losses." This was about 12:30 p.m. They overwhelmed us about 2 p.m.

  So that Lumsden's Battery alone had stopped the advance of A. J.
  Smith's federal Corps for 3 hours during which Confederate troops had
  been moved from right wing to a new line behind the Hillsboro pike
  several hundred yards in our rear, which was all important, to the
  Confederates.

