CHRISTMAS STORIES AND LEGENDS

COMPILED BY PHEBE A. CURTISS

Author of "White Gifts for the King"

MEIGS PUBLISHING CO. INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Copyright 1916

BY

MEIGS PUBLISHING CO. Indianapolis, Indiana

FOREWORD

No greater teaching force has ever been discovered than the story and no one has ever lived
who used that force so skillfully as did our Great Teacher.

It is not strange, then, that among all the stories that have ever been written or told none
are so dear to us as the stories and legends which center in His birth.

Young and old alike delight in them and never tire of hearing them.

Unusual care has been taken in compiling this little volume and each story has its own sweet
lesson. Each one is from the pen of one who has imbibed the real spirit of Christmas. They
were chosen as being particularly well adapted to use in connection with the Christmas Service
"White Gifts for the King," but they will prove attractive and helpful at any time during the year.

It is our earnest wish that this little book may find its way into many homes and schools and
Sunday Schools and that its contents may help to give a deeper appreciation of the true Christmas
spirit.

CONTENTS

                                                              Page
    I. The Legend of the "White Gifts"--Phebe A. Curtiss         9

   II. Her Birthday Dream--Nellie C. King                       13

  III. The Fir Tree--Hans Andersen--adapted by J. H. Stickney   25

   IV. The Little Match Girl--Hans Andersen                     37

    V. Little Piccola--Nora A. Smith                            41

   VI. The Shepherd's Story--Dr. Washington                     47

  VII. The Story of Christmas--Nora A. Smith                    63

 VIII. The Legend of the Christmas Tree--Lucy Wheelock          69

   IX. Little Jean--French of Francois Coppe. Translated by
       Nannie Lee Frayser                                       71

    X. How the Fir Tree Became the Christmas Tree--Aunt Hede
       in Kindergarten Magazine                                 77

   XI. The Magi in the West and Their Search for the
       Christ--Frederick E. Dewhurst                            79

  XII. Little Gretchen and the Wooden Shoe--Elizabeth
       Harrison                                                 93

 XIII. The Little Shepherd--Maud Lindsay                       105

  XIV. Babouscka--Carolyn S. Bailey                            109

   XV. The Boy with the Box--May Griggs Van Voorhis            113

  XVI. The Worker in Sandal wood--Marjorie L. C. Pickthall     125

 XVII. The Shepherd Who Didn't Go--Jay T. Stocking             135

XVIII. Paulina's Christmas--Adapted from Anna Robinson's
       "Little Paulina"                                        145

  XIX. Unto Us a Child Is Born--Phebe A. Curtiss               153

   XX. The Star--Florence M. Kingsley                          159

THE LEGEND OF THE "WHITE GIFTS"

As Told by Phebe A. Curtiss

A great many years ago in a land far away from us there was a certain king who was dearly beloved
by all of his people. Men admired him because he was strong and just. In all of his dealings
they knew they could depend upon him. Every matter that came to his consideration was carefully
weighed in his mind and his decisions were always wise. Women trusted him because he was pure
and true, with lofty thoughts and high ambitions, and the children loved him because of his
gentleness and tenderness toward them. He was never so burdened with affairs of state that
he could not stop to speak a pleasant word of greeting to the tiniest child, and the very poorest
of his subjects knew they could count upon his interest in them.

This deep-seated love and reverence for their king made the people of this country wish very
much for a way in which to give expression to it so that he would understand it. Many consultations
were held and one after another the plans suggested were rejected, but at last a most happy
solution was found. It was rapidly circulated here and there and it met with the most hearty
approval everywhere.

It was a plan for celebrating the King's birthday.

Of course, that had been done in many lands before, but there were certain features about this
celebration which differed materially from anything that had ever been tried. They decided
that on the King's birthday the people should all bring him gifts, but they wanted in some
way to let him know that these gifts were the expression of a love on the part of the giver
which was pure and true and unselfish, and in order to show that, it was decided that each
gift should be a "White Gift."

The King heard about this beautiful plan, and it touched his heart in a wonderful way. He decided
that he would do his part to carry out the idea and let his loving subjects know how much he
appreciated their thoughtfulness.

You can just imagine the excitement there was all over the land as the King's birthday drew
near. All sorts of loving sacrifices had been made and everyone was anxious to make his gift
the very best he had to offer. At last the day dawned, and eagerly the people came dressed
in white and carrying their white gifts. To their surprise they were ushered into a great,
big room--the largest one in the palace. They stood in silence when they first entered it,
for it was beautiful beyond all expression. It was a white room;--the floor was white marble;
the ceiling looked like a mass of soft, white fluffy clouds; the walls were hung with beautiful
white silken draperies, and all the furnishings were white. In one end of the room stood a
stately white throne, and seated upon it was their beloved ruler and he was clad in shining
white robes, and his attendants--all dressed in white--were grouped around him.

Then came the presentation of the gifts. What a wealth of them there was--and how different
they were in value. In those days it was just as it is now--there were many people who had
great wealth, and they brought gifts which were generous in proportion to their wealth.

One brought a handful of pearls, another a number of carved ivories. There were beautiful laces
and silks and embroideries, all in pure white, and even splendid white chargers were brought
to his majesty.

But many of the people were poor--some of them very poor--and their gifts were quite different
from those I have been telling about. Some of the women brought handfuls of white rice, some
of the boys brought their favorite white pigeons, and one dear little girl smilingly gave him
a pure white rose.

It was wonderful to watch the King as each one came and kneeled before him as he presented
his gift. He never seemed to notice whether the gift was great or small; he regarded not one
gift above another so long as all were white. Never had the King been so happy as he was that
day and never had such real joy filled the hearts of the people. They decided to use the same
plan every year, and so it came to pass that year after year on the King's birthday the people
came from here and there and everywhere and brought their white gifts--the gifts which showed
that their love was pure, strong, true and without stain, and year after year the King sat
in his white robes on the white throne in the great white room and it was always the same--he
regarded not one gift above another so long as all were white.

HER BIRTHDAY DREAM[*]

By Nellie C. King

Marcia Brownlow came out of the church, and walked rapidly down the street. She seemed perturbed;
her gray eyes flashed, and on her cheeks glowed two red spots. She was glad she was not going
home, so she wouldn't have to take a car, but could walk the short distance to Aunt Sophy's,
where she had been invited to dine and visit with her special chum, Cousin Jack--who was home
from college for the short Thanksgiving vacation. She slowed up as she reached her destination,
and waited a little before going in--she wanted to get calmed down a bit, for she didn't want
her friend to see her when she felt so "riled up." Back of it was a secret reluctance to meet
Jack--he was so different since the Gipsy Smith revival; of course, he was perfectly lovely,
and unchanged toward her, but--somehow, she felt uncomfortable in his presence--and she didn't
enjoy having her self-satisfaction disturbed.

As she entered the dining-room, she was greeted with exclamations of surprise and pleasure.

"Why, Marcia!" said Aunt Sophia; "we had given you up! I almost never knew of your being late
in keeping an appointment."

"You must excuse me, Auntie; and lay this offense to the charge of our Sunday school superintendent,"
answered Marcia.

"I suppose Mr. Robinson is laying his plans for Christmas," remarked Uncle John. "He believes
in taking time by the forelock--and a very commendable habit it is, too."

"Yes," answered Marcia laconically.

Jack glanced at her keenly. "Is there anything new in the Christmas line?" he asked.

The gray eyes grew black, and the red spots burned again, as Marcia replied: "Well, I should
think so--he proposes to turn things topsy-turvy!"

"My! What does he want to do?" inquired Cousin Augusta.

"Oh, he calls it the 'White Gift Christmas'; but the long and short of the matter is, that
he proposes to 'turn down' Santa Claus, and all the old time-honored customs connected with
Christmas that are so dear to the hearts of the children, and have the school do the giving.
He has a big banner hung up in the Sunday school room bearing the words, 'Gifts for the Christ-Child'."

"An excellent idea," exclaimed Uncle John, "but I don't see much of an innovation about that;
you have always made the children's giving a part of your Christmas celebration, have you not?"

"Certainly!" rejoined Marcia. "They have always brought their little gifts for the poor, and
that is all right; but this time there are no gifts to the Sunday school at all."

"Not even to the Primary School?" asked Augusta.

"Well," admitted Marcia, "Mr. Robinson gave the children their choice today, whether they would
have the old Christmas or the 'White Gift Christmas,' and they all voted for the new idea."

"Why then should the children be obliged to have gifts, if they don't want them?" laughed Augusta.

"Oh, children are always taken with novelty, and Mr. Robinson told it to them in such a way
that fancy was captivated; but I don't think they really understood what they were giving up."

"Marcia, it seems to me that your are emphasizing the wrong side of the subject if I understand
it aright," said Jack.

"Why, do you know about it?" asked Marcia, in surprise.

"Not much," replied Jack; "but I read the White Gift story in the 'Sunday School Times,' and
the report of the Painesville experiment."

"Well, Jack, tell us what you know about this mysterious 'White Gift'," commanded his father.

"I would rather Marcia should tell it, father; I know so little."

"Oh, go on, Jack," urged Marcia; "you can't possibly know less about it than I do, for I confess
I was so full of the disappointment of the little ones that the other side of it didn't impress
me very much."

"Well, as I remember it," said Jack, "the gist of the plan is this--that Christmas is Christ's
birthday, and we should make our gifts to him, instead of to one another; and the idea of the
White Gift was suggested by the story of the Persian king named Kublah Khan, who was a wise
and good ruler, and greatly beloved. On his birthday his subjects kept what they called the
'White Feast.' This was celebrated in an immense great white banqueting-hall, and each one
of his subjects brought to their king a white gift to express that the love and loyalty of
their hearts was without stain. The rich brought white chargers, ivory and alabaster; the poor
brought white pigeons, or even a measure of rice; and the great king regarded all gifts alike,
so long as they were white. Have I told it right, cousin?" queried Jack.

"Yes, I think so. It is a beautiful thought, I must confess, and might be all right in a large,
rich Sunday school; but in a mission school like ours I am sure it will be a failure. It will
end in our losing our scholars. I don't believe in taking up new ideas without considering
whether they are adapted to our needs or not. But please, dear folkses, don't let us say anything
more about it," pleaded Marcia, and so the subject was dropped.

That evening as Jack Thornton bade his cousin good-bye, he placed in her hand a little package,
saying: "I am so sorry, Marcia, that I can't be here for your birthday, but here is my remembrance.
Now don't you dare open it before Tuesday, and, dear, you may be sure it is a 'white gift,'
and may you have a 'white birthday'." And before she could say a word, he had opened the door,
and was gone.

Touched by his thoughtful gift and his words, she said to herself: "A 'white birthday!' I always
have perfectly beautiful birthdays."

But these thoughts were crowded out by the pressure of things to be done--father and mother
had gone into the country to visit a sick friend, and the younger brothers and sisters surrounded
her and clamored for songs and Bible stories, and as she was a good older sister she devoted
herself to them until their bedtime. Then, turning out the lights, she sat down in an easy
chair before the library grate, and yielded herself to the spell of the quiet hour. The strained,
irritated nerves relaxed, and a strange, sweet peace stole over her. She repeated the words
over and over to herself. How simple and restful they were; how direct and genuine and satisfying
was this old-time giving! There it was--Gifts for the Christ-Child--"They presented unto him
gifts, gold, frankincense and myrrh." She remembered reading somewhere that the gold represented
our earthly possessions, the frankincense typified our service and the myrrh our suffering
for his sake.

As she gazed into the fire, and mused, she fell asleep, and all these thoughts were woven into
the fabric of a dream--and who shall say that God does not speak to his children still in dreams?

She dreamed that it was the morning of her birthday. She heard cheery voices in the hall calling
out to one another: "This is Marcia's birthday. Wish you many returns of the day!" There was
an excited running to and fro between the different rooms, and gleeful exclamations--but no
one came near her! She sat up in bed listening, and wondering what it could mean! Why, mother
always came into her room, and folded her to her heart, and said those precious things that
only a mother can say; and the children always scrambled to see who should be the first to
give sister a birthday kiss. Were they playing some joke on her? She would be quiet and watch,
and so not be taken unawares.

Presently they went trooping happily downstairs into the dining-room, and she heard father's
voice say: "Good morning, children; I wish you many happy returns of Marcia's birthday."

What did it all mean? Was she going crazy? Or were they just going to surprise her by some
novel way of celebrating her birthday? She arose, and with trembling fingers dressed herself
hastily, and stole softly down the stairs, and looked into the dining-room. Hush!--father was
asking a blessing. He returned thanks for dear Marcia's birthday, and asked that it should
be a happy day for them all. Beside each plate save her own, were various packages; and these
were opened amid ejaculations of surprise and pleasure, and sundry hugs and kisses.

After the first burst of happiness had subsided, Marcia braced herself and entered the dining-room,
saying with forced gayety: "Good morning, dear ones all." They looked up with blank, unanswering
faces, and said: "Good morning, Marcia"--that was all. But Marcia's heart leaped at the recognition
of her presence, for she had begun to fear that she was dead, and that it was her spirit that
was wandering about.

She stooped and kissed her mother, who murmured abstractedly, "Yes, dear," never once looking
up from the presents she was examining. With a sinking heart she turned away from her mother
and went and stood behind her father's chair, and leaning over whispered in his ear: "Dear
father, have you forgotten that this is my birthday?" He answered kindly but absent-mindedly:
"Why, daughter, am I likely to forget it with all these tokens around me?"--and he waved his
hand toward the gifts piled around his plate. This was almost more than Marcia could bear,
for father was always specially tender and attentive to her on her birthday. She always sat
on his knee a while; and he told her what a joy and comfort she was to him, and he always paid
her some pretty compliment that made her girlish heart swell with innocent pride, for every
girl knows that compliments from one's father are a little sweeter than any others.

In vain she hung around waiting for some clue to this mysterious, unnatural conduct of the
family. They were all absorbed in plans for spending this birthday--Marcia's birthday, but
no reference whatever was made to what she liked; no one consulted her as to what she wanted
to do, or to have done. The boys were going skating in the forenoon; the little girls were
to invite four of their friends to help serve the first dinner in the new doll's house, and
in the afternoon father would take them all for an automobile ride into the country to a dear
friend's--all but Marcia, who couldn't bear to get into an auto since a terrible accident she
had been in a few weeks ago. A troop of her girl friends came in, and in a conventional way
wished her "many happy returns" of the day; and then proceeded to ignore her, and gave gifts
to other members of the family. "It is a wonder," thought Marcia, bitterly, "that they didn't
have a birthday party for Marcia with Marcia left out."

And so it went on all through that strange, miserable day; while they were all busy celebrating
her birthday, she herself was neglected and ignored as she sat in the quiet house alone in
the twilight--for she had no heart to light the gas--just homesick for the personal love which
had characterized all her birthdays and all her home life heretofore, there came a timid knock
on the door, and as Marcia opened it, there stood little crippled Joe, one of her scholars
in the Mission Sunday school. As he saw her, he gave a little exclamation of surprise and delight,
and said: "O Miss Marshay! I hearn last night 'twas yer berthday today, an' I wanted to guv
yer suthin' white, like Mr. Robinson he told us 'bout, don't yer know?--an' 'caus yer has allers
treated me so white--'n'--'n' I didn't hev nuthin', 'n so I axed Him, ye know, what yer telled
us 'bout in Sunday school--Jesus; who died on the cross, and who's allers willin' to help a
poor feller--an' I axed Him to help me get suthin' real nice 'n' white fer uer birthday; 'n
I kep' me eyes peeled all day 'xpectin' it, 'n just now a reel swell feller buyed a paper of
me, 'n then he guv he this here bunch uv white sweet smellin' posies, 'thout my sayin' a word.
Here they be, Miss Marshay fer yer. Giminy, teacher, ain't them purty? An' O, teacher--He made
'm in the fust place 'n had the man guv them to me, 'n so I reckon He 'n me's pardners in this
here white gift bizness." And he held up in his thin, grimy hand a bunch of white, sweet-scented
violets.

Marcia's first impulse was to catch up the little fellow and his gift in her arms, and baptize
them with a flood of tears from her own overcharged heart! But she hadn't taught boys in a
Mission Sunday school class for nothing--Joe would have thought she had gone crazy, or been
struck silly, or was sick unto death; so she controlled herself, and kneeling beside him took
the violets reverently in both her hands, saying in a choked voice: "Joe, they are just beautiful!
This is the only really truly white gift I have had today, and I don't deserve it--but I thank
Him and you."

The boy looked at her with shining face, drew his hand across his eyes, and then answered brightly:
"Oh, that's all right, Miss Marshay; 'tenny rate 'tis with me, 'n' I reckon 'tis with Him"--and
seizing his crutch, he hopped like a little sparrow through the door and onto the street, and
she heard his boyish voice calling out: "Evenin' papers, last edishun--all 'bout the big graft
'sposure."

Just then the big white touring car discharged its merry load at the door, and the house was
filled with the chatter and laughter of the children. In vain she tried to find a quiet corner
where she could be alone with her heart--it was impossible to escape from the hilarious celebration
of her birthday. She was so glad when the children said good-night and went off to bed, and
she could seek the quiet of her own room.

As she bade her father good night, he said: "Well, daughter, I hope you have enjoyed your birthday
and all your gifts?"

At this all the honesty of her nature, all the hatred of sham, rose up in one indignant outburst,
and she exclaimed: "I have had no gifts, neither has this been my birthday celebration."

"Why, Marcia!" said her father in an aggrieved tone, "this certainly is your birthday, and
we have been very happy in keeping it for love of you."

"I have failed to see any manifestation of love to me," retorted Marcia. "You may have had
a happy time, but I have not been in it; you have given gifts to one another, but I have had
just one"--and she held up the bunch of violets. "This is a gift of love from little lame Joe,
in answer to his prayer, and in pity for my hungry heart."

There was silence in the room for a moment, and then her father answered: "It seems to me,
daughter, that when you get right down to a personal application, what you believe in after
all is a 'white birthday'."

The words went through her like an electric shock, and with a start she awoke, and sat upright
in her chair; and, lo, it was all a dream!

Marcia looked around the room, shook herself a little, stirred the fire, and put on fresh coal.
She laughed at the remembrance of her dream, and its absurdity! How glad she was that it was
only a dream! But was it only a dream? Was it not a reality? Was not this the way she had kept
the Lord's birthday? When she had opened her Christmas treasure, how much had been given Him
and for love of Him? How large a place had she given Him in the season's activity? Had she
ever made room for Him as the central figure of it all; or had he been crowded out, and His
rightful place given to Santa Claus and the world's merry-making?

In the light of the Spirit she saw that the Star of Bethlehem always leads to the cross of
Calvary. She had never liked to think about the cross before, but now it was all illumined
with the glory of the love which gave to us God's best, his only begotten Son. She remembered
how the Lord Jesus had said: "If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto Me." She saw that
it is as we see Christ on the cross for us that we are drawn to Him.

In that still hour, on her knees, at the foot of the cross, Marcia with great gladness made
her first "White Gift" unto her Lord--she gave HERSELF to Him.

[*] By permission of the author and the publisher, Pittsburgh Christian Advocate. There is
nothing else worth caring for in the world." As I flew from Egypt, I saw several new ships,
and they had fine masts that smelt like fir. These must have been the trees; and I assure you
they were stately; they sailed right gloriously!"

"Oh, how I wish I were tall enough to go on the sea," said the fir tree. "Tell me what is this
sea, and what does it look like?" And why do they keep all their branches? Where are they going?"

"We know, we know," sang the sparrows; "we have looked in at the windows of the houses in the
town, and we know what is done with them. Oh! you cannot think what honor and glory they receive.
This is beautiful!" But the fir tree remained quite still, and thought to himself, "Shall I
have anything to do with all this?

The little mice also kept away after this, and the tree sighed and said, "It was very pleasant
when the merry little mice sat around me and listened while I talked. Now that is all past too.

[*] From "Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales," adapted by J. H. Stickney. By permission of the publishers--Ginn
and Company. When she looked for them, one was not to be found, and a boy seized the other
and ran away with it, saying he would use it for a cradle some day, when he had children of
his own.

So on the little girl went with her bare feet, that were red and blue with cold. In an old
apron that she wore were bundles of matches, and she carried a bundle also in her hand. No
one had bought so much as a bunch all the long day, and no one had given her even a penny.

Poor little girl! Shivering with cold and hunger she crept along, a perfect picture of misery!

The snowflakes fell on her long flaxen hair, which hung in pretty curls about her throat; but
she thought not of her beauty nor of the cold. Her father would certainly beat her; and, besides,
it was cold enough at home, for they had only the houseroof above them; and, though the largest
holes had been stopped with straw and rags, there were left many through which the cold wind
whistled.

And now her little hands were nearly frozen with cold. Alas! a single match might do her good
if she might only draw it from the bundle, rub it against the wall, and warm her fingers by
it. So at last she drew one out. Whischt! How it blazed and burned! So blessedly it burned
that the little maiden stretched out her feet to warm them also. How comfortable she was! But
lo! the flame went out, the stove vanished, and nothing remained but the little burned match
in her hand.

She rubbed another match against the wall. It burned brightly, and where the light fell upon
the wall it became transparent like a veil, so that she could see through it into the room.
A snow-white cloth was spread upon the table, on which was a beautiful china dinner service,
while a roast goose, stuffed with apples and prunes, steamed famously, and sent forth a most
savory smell. And what was more delightful still, and wonderful, the goose jumped from the
dish, with knife and fork still in its breast, and waddled along the floor straight to the
little girl.

But the match went out then, and nothing was left to her but the thick, damp wall.

She lighted another match. And now she was under a most beautiful Christmas tree, larger and
far more prettily trimmed than the one she had seen through the glass doors at the rich merchant's.
Hundreds of wax tapers were burning on the green branches, and gay figures, such as she had
seen in the shop windows, looked down upon her.

"Now some one is dying," murmured the child softly; for her grandmother, the only person who
had loved her and who was now dead, had told her that whenever a star falls a soul mounts up
to God.

She struck yet another match against the wall, and again it was light; and in the brightness
there appeared before her the dear old grandmother, bright and radiant, yet sweet and mild,
and happy as she had never looked on earth.

"Oh, grandmother," cried the child, "take me with you. I know you will go away when the match
burns out. You, too, will vanish, like the warm stove, the splendid New Year's feast, the beautiful
Christmas Tree." And lest her grandmother should disappear, she rubbed the whole bundle of
matches against the wall.

And the matches burned with such a brilliant light that it became brighter than noonday. Her
grandmother had never looked so grand and beautiful. She took the little girl in her arms,
and both flew together, joyously and gloriously, mounting higher and higher, far above the
earth; and for them there was neither hunger, nor cold, nor care;--they were with God. Stiff
and cold she sat, with the matches, one bundle of which was burned.

"She wanted to warm herself, poor little thing," people said. No one imagined what sweet visions
she had had, or how gloriously she had gone with her grandmother to enter upon the joys of
a new year.

[*] From "Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales." By permission of publishers--Ginn & Company.

LITTLE PICCOLA[*]

Suggested by One of Mrs. Celia Thaxter's Poems

     "Story-telling is a real strengthening spirit-bath."--Froebel.

Piccola lived in Italy, where the oranges grow, and where all the year the sun shines warm
and bright. I suppose you think Piccola a very strange name for a little girl; but in her country
it was not strange at all, and her mother thought it the sweetest name a little girl ever had.

Piccola had no kind father, no big brother or sister, and no sweet baby to play with and love.
She and her mother lived all alone in an old stone house that looked on a dark, narrow street.
They were very poor, and the mother was away from home almost every day, washing clothes and
scrubbing floors, and working hard to earn money for her little girl and herself. So you see
Piccola was alone a great deal of the time; and if she had not been a very happy, contented
little child, I hardly know what she would have done. She had no playthings except a heap of
stones in the back yard that she used for building houses and a very old, very ragged doll
that her mother had found in the street one day.

But there was a small round hole in the stone wall at the back of her yard, and her greatest
pleasure was to look through that into her neighbor's garden. When she stood on a stone, and
put her eyes close to the hole, she could see the green grass in the garden, and smell the
sweet flowers, and even hear the water splashing into the fountain. She had never seen anyone
walking in the garden, for it belonged to an old gentleman who did not care about grass and
flowers.

One day in the autumn her mother told her that the old gentleman had gone away, and had rented
his house to a family of little American children, who had come with their sick mother to spend
the winter in Italy. After this, Piccola was never lonely, for all day long the children ran
and played and danced and sang in the garden. It was several weeks before they saw her at all,
and I am not sure they ever would have done so but one day the kitten ran away, and in chasing
her they came close to the wall and saw Piccola's black eyes looking through the hole in the
stones. They were a little frightened at first, and did not speak to her; but the next day
she was there again, and Rose, the oldest girl, went up to the wall and talked to her a little
while. When the children found that she had no one to play with and was very lonely, they talked
to her every day, and often brought her fruits and candies, and passed them through the hole
in the wall.

