The effects produced by the French revolution upon the religious state of the country, were
scarcely less important than upon the political. In both cases, the nation hurried, with the
blindest fury, from extreme to extreme; in both, they followed phantoms of ideal perfection
through an unexampled series of excesses and sufferings; in both, they rested at length from
exhaustion much more than from conviction; and, happily for mankind and for themselves, they
finally attained in both nearly the same end, reverting indeed to their original constitutions,
but tempering them with a most seasonable mixture of civil and ecclesiastical liberty. The
concordat effected for the church, what the charter did for the state. The former of these
was one of the master-pieces of Napoleon's policy, and was likewise one of the earliest acts
of his power. It was established in the year 1801, while France yet retained the name of a
republic, and the ambition of its ruler had not ventured to grasp, at more than the consular
dignity. By this instrument, the whole ecclesiastical constitution was changed; and not only
was all the power placed in the hands of the chief of the state, but the provinces and dioceses
were entirely remodelled; and, instead of twenty-three archbishoprics and one hundred and thirty-four
bishoprics, the number of the former, notwithstanding the vast extension of the French territory,
was reduced to ten, and that of the latter to fifty.

The archbishop of Rouen was one of those who suffered least upon the occasion. His dignity
was curtailed only by the suppression of two of his suffragans, the bishops of Avranches and
of Lisieux.[169] The church, here figured, then resigned the mitre, which it had conferred
from the middle of the sixth century, upon an illustrious, though not an uninterrupted, line
of prelates. It is admitted, in the annals of the cathedral, that either the see must have
been vacant for the space of four hundred years, or at least that the names of those who filled
it during that period, are lost. Ordericus Vitalis, who resided fifty-six years in the diocese,
and has collected, in the sixth book of his Ecclesiastical History, whatever was to be found
in his time, relative to its early state, acknowledges the chasm, and accounts for it by the
following general remarks.--"Piratæ de Daniâ egressi sunt, in Neustriam venerunt, et christianæ
fidei divinique cultûs penitùs ignari, super fidelem populum immanitèr debacchati sunt. Antiquorum
scripta cum basilicis et ædibus incendio deperierunt, quæ fervida juniorum studia, quamvis
insatiabilitèr sitiant, recuperare nequiverunt. Nonnulla verò, quæ per diligentiam priscorum
manibus barbarorum solertèr erepta sunt, damnabili subsequentium negligentiâ interierunt."

The city of Lisieux represents the capital of the Gallic tribe, mentioned by Cæsar, and other
almost contemporary writers, under the name of Lexovii; and it is supposed by modern geographers,
that the territory occupied by these latter, was nearly co-extensive with the late bishopric
of Lisieux. Extensive ruins of buildings, situated in a field, called Les Tourettes, were then
brought to light; and among them were dug up various specimens of ancient art. The researches
of more modern times, principally conducted by M. Louis Dubois, a very able antiquary of Lisieux,
have materially added to the number as well as the value of these discoveries; and the quantity
of Roman coins and medals that have rewarded his researches, would have left little doubt as
to the real site of Neomagus, even if the circumstance had not within a very few years been
established almost beyond a question, by the detection of a Roman amphitheatre in a state of
great perfection.

Tradition, which there is in this instance no reason to impugn, relates that the Gallo-Roman
capital disappeared during the incursions of the Saxons, about the middle of the fourth century.

Modern Lisieux is supposed to have risen at no distant period of time after the destruction
of Neomagus. In the writings of the monkish historians, it is indifferently called Lexovium,
Lexobium, Luxovium, Lixovium, and Lizovium, names obviously borrowed from the classical appellation
of the tribe, as the French word Lisieux is clearly derived from them. In the early portion
of Norman history, Lisieux is mentioned as having felt the vengeance of these invaders, during
one of their predatory excursions from the Bessin, about the year 877. It was shortly afterwards
sacked by Rollo himself, when that conqueror, elated with the capture of Bayeux, was on his
march to take possession of the capital of Neustria. But the territory of Lisieux was still
the last part of the duchy which owned Rollo as its lord: it was not ceded to him by Charles
the Simple, till 923, at which time he had for eleven years been the undisputed sovereign of
the rest of Normandy.

Neither under the Norman dukes, nor at a subsequent period, does Lisieux appear to have taken
any prominent part in political transactions. Its central situation, by securing it against
the attacks of the French in former times, and more recently of the English, also prevented
it from obtaining that historical celebrity, which, from its size and opulence, it could scarcely
have failed to have otherwise gained. Arnulf, then bishop of Lisieux, had labored diligently,
though ineffectually, to restore amity between the sovereign and the prelate, espousing, indeed,
decidedly the cause of the latter, but at the same time never forfeiting the friendship of
the former, for whom, after the murder of Becket, he wrote a letter of excuse to the supreme
pontiff, in the joint names of all the bishops of England.--Lisieux, in 1213, passed from under
the dominion of the Norman dukes, to the sway of the French monarch. It opened its gates to
Philip-Augustus, immediately after the fall of Caen and Bayeux; and its surrender was accompanied
with that of Coutances and Séez, all of them without a blow, as the king's poetical chronicler,
Brito, relates in the following lines:--

    "Cumque diocesibus tribus illi tres sine bello
    Sese sponte suâ præclari nominis urbes
    Subjiciunt, Sagium, Constantia, Lexoviumque."

In subsequent times, Lisieux suffered severely, when taken by the English army under Henry
V. in 1417. Its recapture by Charles VII. thirty-two years afterwards, was unstained by bloodshed.

NOTES:

[169] The following account of the bishopric of Lisieux, is extracted from the Gallia Christiana,
XI. p. 762, to enable the reader to form an opinion of its extent and importance.--"Ecclesia
hæc cæteris Neustriæ episcopatibus facultatibus haud impar, patronum agnoscit S. Petrum Apostolorum
principem. Episcopus, qui et episcopus est capituli, comes est et civitatis. Hunc comitatum
septem componunt baroniæ, de Nonanto in Bajocassino, de Thibervilla, de Glos et Courthona,
de Gaceio, de Touqua, de Canapvilla et de Bonnavilla la Louvet, omnes in dioecesi. Episcopus
præterea conservator est privilegiorum academiæ Cadomensis. Dignitates omnes et præbendas ecclesiæ
Lexoviensis confert, excepto decano qui eligitur a capitulo, nec a quoquam confirmatur. Præter
decanum, capitulum octo constat dignitatibus, cantore, qui residere tenetur, thesaurario, capicerio,
magistro scholarum et quatuor archidiaconis; 1. de Lievino cui subsunt quatuor decanatus rurales,
Moyaux, Cormeilles, Bernai, et Orbec, in quibus 139 parochiæ, rectoriæ vero seu curæ 148; 2.
de Algia, cui subsunt tres decanatus, Mesnil-Mauger, Beuvron et Beaumont, in quibus 128 parochiæ,
rectoriæ vero 137; 3. de Ponte Audomaro, cui subsunt tres decanatus, Touques, Honfleur, et
Pontaudemer, in quibus 89 parochiæ, rectoriæ 93; 4. denique de Gaceio, cui subsunt quatuor
decanatus, Gacey, Livarot, Montreul, et Vimontier, in quibus 111 parochiæ, et 117 rectoriæ.
Post dignitates sunt 31 præbendæ integræ cum duabus semipræbendis, e quibus undecim antiquæ
fundationis, quas qui tenent barones vocantur. Sunt et aliæ sex præbendæ Volantes dictæ, quæ
quotidianis non gaudent distributionibus. Sunt adhuc in eadem ecclesia 4 vicarii, quorum tres
revocabiles, et 30 capellani, quorum septem episcopus, et 23 instituit capitulum. Præter parochias
supra memoratas, sunt et aliæ undecim in urbe et baleuca Lexoviensi, rectoriæ duodecim: quatuor
in exemtione de Nonanto prope Bajocas, quarum sex rectores, et quinque in exemtione S. Candidi
senioris in urbe et dioecesi Rotomagensi, quarum unam, scilicet S. Candidi senioris collegiatam
simul et parochialem administrant quatuor canonici, qui alternis vicibus parochialia obeunt
munia; decanatus enim annexus est episcopo Lexoviensi qui jurisdictionem exercet in quinque
illas ecclesias. Tota denique dioecesis Lexoviensis 487 parochias continet, rectorias 520."

[170] Turner's Tour in Normandy, II. p. 139.

[171] Anglo-Norman Antiquities, p. 47.

PLATE LXXVI.

ABBEY CHURCH OF ST. OUEN, AT ROUEN.

The beauty of the church of St. Ouen has been a frequent theme of admiration among the lovers
of ancient ecclesiastical architecture. The excellencies of the building have been denied by
none, while some have gone so far as to consider it as the very perfection of that style, which
has generally, however improperly, obtained the name of Gothic. A recent English traveller,
whose attention was expressly directed to the different departments of the arts, bears the
following testimony in its favor: "Beyond all comparison, the finest specimen of Gothic architecture
which we have met with in France, is Saint Ouen, the secondary church at Rouen. Contrasted
with Salisbury cathedral, it is small; but it does not, I think, yield to that or any other
structure I have ever seen, in elegance, lightness, or graceful uniformity."[172]

Previously to the suppression of monasteries in France, the church of St. Ouen made part of
the abbey of the same name, one of the most celebrated and most ancient in Normandy. It is
now a parochial church, and is happily in nearly a perfect state, having suffered comparatively
but little from the mad folly of the Calvinists of the sixteenth century, or the democrats
of the eighteenth; though every studied insult was offered to it by the former, and in the
fury of the revolution it was despoiled and desecrated--degraded at one time to a manufactory
for the forging of arms, and at another to a magazine for forage.--Different accounts are given
of the foundation of the convent: some writers contend for its having taken place as early
as the last year of the fourth century, and having been the work of the piety of Saint Victrice,
then bishop of Rouen; others, and these the greater number, are content with tracing it from
the reign of Clothair. Those who adopt the latter opinion are again divided, as to whether
that prince himself was the actual founder, or only ratified by his royal sanction what was
really the establishment of Archbishop Flavius. In either case, however, they agree in dating
the origin of the abbey from the year 535.

An historian, who lived as early as the middle of the tenth century, speaks of the original
church of St. Ouen, as an edifice deserving of admiration:--"..... miro opere, quadris lapidibus,
manu Gothicâ,.... olim nobilitèr constructa."[173]--The abbey was at first placed under the
invocation of the Holy Apostles generally: it was afterwards dedicated to St. Peter alone;
but, from the year 692, it has owned no other patron than St. Ouen,[174] whose body was three
years before interred in the church, which he had protected with his especial favor while living,
and which derived still greater benefits from him after his death, owing to the concourse of
pilgrims attracted by the miracles that were wrought at his tomb.

Upon the irruption of the Normans in the ninth century, this abbey shared the common fate of
the Neustrian convents; and, like the rest, it rose from its ashes with greater magnificence,
after the conversion of these barbarians to Christianity. Nicholas, the fourth abbot of the
convent, son of Duke Richard II. and of Judith of Brittany, is said by Ordericus Vitalis to
have commenced "a new church of wonderful size and elegance." But though he presided over the
fraternity nearly sixty years, he did not live to see the building finished: the bringing of
the task to perfection was reserved for William Balot, the next but one to him in the succession;
and even he died in the very year of the dedication, which did not take place till 1126.

This church, which it had cost eighty years to build, was suffered to exist but a short time
after its completion: only ten years had elapsed from its dedication, when it fell a prey to
a conflagration, which was at the same time destructive to the greater part of the city: another
church, built shortly after, and chiefly by the munificence of Richard Coeur-de-Lion, shared
the same fate in 1248. But even these repeated disasters in no wise abated the spirit of the
monks: they had retired with the wreck of their property to one of their estates near Rouen,
and there, by economy on their own part, and liberality on that of others, they soon found
themselves in a state to undertake the erection of a fourth convent, of greater extent than
any of the former, and to inclose it with high walls.

The honor of laying the first stone of the new church, the same that is now standing, is attributed
to one of the most celebrated of the abbots, John Roussel, more commonly known by the name
of Marcdargent.[175] He had been elected to the prelacy in 1303; and, fifteen years afterwards,
he commenced the structure. He presided over the monastery thirty-seven years, and was buried
in the Lady-Chapel of the church, which he had completed as far westward as the transepts.
The pomp with which his funeral was conducted, is recorded at length in the Neustria Pia; and
the same work has also preserved the following inscription, engraved upon his coffin, which
describes, with great precision, the progress made by him in the building:--

  "HIC JACET FRATER JOANNES MARCDARGENT
  ALIAS ROUSSEL, QUONDAM ABBAS ISTIUS MONASTERII,
  QUI COEPIT ÆDIFICARE ISTAM ECCLESIAM
  DE NOVO; ET FECIT CHORUM ET CAPELLAS,
  ET PILLIARIA TURRIS, ET MAGNAM PARTEM
  TURRIS S. AUDOENI, MONASTERII DICTI."

The remaining parts of the church were not finished till the beginning of the sixteenth century,
when it was brought to its present state by the thirty-fourth abbot, Anthony Bohier, who, in
the annals of the convent, bears the character of having been "a magnificent restorer and repairer
of ancient monasteries." Admirable as is the structure, the original design of the architect
was never completed. The western front remains imperfect; and this is the more to be regretted,
as that part is naturally the first that meets the eye of the stranger, who thus receives an
unfavorable impression, which it is afterwards difficult wholly to banish. An engraving, though
a wretched one, of this intended front, is given in Pommeraye's History of the Abbey, from
a sketch preserved among the records of the convent.

