25. "UP TO THE AGE of puberty, if the girl has grown naturally, waist, hips and shoulders are
about the same in width, the shoulders being, perhaps, a trifle the broadest. Up to this time
the sexual organs have grown but little. Now they take a sudden start and need more room. Nature
aids the girls; the tissues and muscles increase in size and the pelvis bones enlarge. The
limbs grow plump, the girl stops growing tall and becomes round and full. Unsuspected strength
comes to her; tasks that were once hard to perform are now easy; her voice becomes sweeter
and stronger. The mind develops more rapidly even than the body; her brain is more active and
quicker; subjects that once were dull and dry have unwonted interest; lessons are more easily
learned; the eyes sparkle with intelligence, indicating increased mental power; her manner
denotes the consciousness of new power; toys of childhood are laid away; womanly thoughts and
pursuits fill her mind; budding childhood has become blooming womanhood. Now, if ever, must
be laid the foundation of physical vigor and of a healthy body. Girls should realize the significance
of this fact. Do not get the idea that men admire a weakly, puny, delicate, small-waisted,
languid, doll-like creature, a libel on true womanhood. Girls admire men with broad chests,
square shoulders, erect form, keen bright eyes, hard muscles and undoubted vigor. Men also
turn naturally to healthy, robust, well-developed girls, and to win their admiration girls
must meet their ideals. A good form, a sound mind and a healthy body are within the reach of
nine out of ten of our girls by proper care and training. Physical bankruptcy may claim the
same proportion if care and training are neglected.

26. "A WOMAN FIVE FEET TALL should measure two feet around the waist and thirty-three inches
around the hips. A waist less than this proportion indicates compression either by lacing or
tight clothing. Exercise in the open air, take long walks and vigorous exercise, using care
not to overdo it. Housework will prove a panacea for many of the ills which flesh is heir to.
One hour's exercise at the wash-tub is of far more value, from a physical standpoint, than
hours at the piano. Boating is most excellent exercise and within the reach of many. Care in
dressing is also important, and, fortunately, fashion is coming to the rescue here. It is essential
that no garments be suspended from the waist. Let the shoulders bear the weight of all the
clothing, so that the organs of the body may be left free and unimpeded.

27. "SLEEP SHOULD BE HAD regularly and abundantly. Avoid late hours, undue excitement, evil
associations; partake of plain, nutritious food, and health will be your reward. There is one
way of destroying health, which, fortunately, is not as common among girls as boys, and which
must be mentioned ere this chapter closes. Self-abuse is practised among growing girls to such
an extent as to arouse serious alarm. Many a girl has been led to handle and play with her
sexual organs through the advice of some girl who has obtained temporary pleasure in that way;
or, perchance, chafing has been followed by rubbing until the organs have become congested
with blood, and in this accidental manner the girl discovered what seems to her a source of
pleasure, but which, alas, is a source of misery, and even death.

28. "AS IN THE BOY, SO IN THE GIRL, self-abuse causes an undue amount of blood to flow to those
organs, thus depriving other parts of the body of its nourishment, the weakest part first showing
the effect of want of sustenance. All that has been said upon this loathsome subject in the
preceding chapter for boys might well be repeated here, but space forbids. Read that chapter
again, and know that the same signs that betray the boy will make known the girl addicted to
the vice. The bloodless lips, the dull, heavy eye surrounded with dark rings, the nerveless
hand, the blanched cheek, the short breath, the old, faded look, the weakened memory and silly
irritability tell the story all too plainly. The same evil result follows, ending perhaps in
death, or worse, in insanity. Aside from the injury the girl does herself by yielding to this
habit, there is one other reason which appeals to the conscience, and that is, self-abuse is
an offence against moral law it is putting to a vile, selfish use the organs which were given
for a high, sacred purpose.

29. "LET THEM ALONE, except to care for them when care is needed, and they may prove the greatest
blessing you have ever known. They were given you that you might become a mother, the highest
office to which God has ever called one of His creatures. Do not debase yourself and become
lower than the beasts of the field. If this habit has fastened itself upon any one of our readers,
stop it now. Do not allow yourself to think about it, give up all evil associations, seek pure
companions, and go to your mother, older sister, or physician for advice.

30. "AND YOU, MOTHER, knowing the danger that besets your daughters at this critical period,
are you justified in keeping silent? Can you be held guiltless if your daughter ruins body
and mind because you were too modest to tell her the laws of her being? There is no love that
is dearer to your daughter than yours, no advice that is more respected than yours, no one
whose warning would be more potent. Fail not in your duty. As motherhood has been your sweetest
joy, so help your daughter to make it hers."

       *       *       *       *       *

SAVE THE BOYS.

PLAIN WORDS TO PARENTS.

1. With a shy look, approaching his mother when she was alone, the boy of fifteen said, "There
are some things I want to ask you. I hear the boys speak of them at school, and I don't understand,
and a fellow doesn't like to ask any one but his mother."

2. Drawing him down to her, in the darkness that was closing about them, the mother spoke to
her son and the son to his mother freely of things which everybody must know sooner or later,
and which no boy should learn from "anyone but his mother" or father.

3. If you do not answer such a natural question your boy will turn for answer to others, and
learn things, perhaps, which your cheeks may well blush to have him know.

4. Our boys and girls are growing faster than we think. The world moves; we can no longer put
off our children with the old nurses' tales; even MacDonald's beautiful statement,

  "Out of the everywhere into the there",

does not satisfy them when they reverse his question and ask, "Where did I come from?"

5. They must be answered. If we put them off, they may be tempted to go elsewhere for information,
and hear half-truths, or whole truths so distorted, so mingled with what is low and impure
that, struggle against it as they may in later years, their minds will always retain these
early impressions.

6. It is not so hard if you begin early. The very flowers are object lessons. The wonderful
mystery of life is wrapped in one flower, with its stamens, pistils and ovaries. Every child
knows how an egg came in the nest, and takes it as a matter of course; why not go one step
farther with them and teach the wonder, the beauty, the holiness that surrounds maternity anywhere?
Why, centuries ago the Romans honored, and taught their boys to honor, the women in whose safety
was bound up the future of their existence as a nation! Why should we do less?

7. Your sons and mine, your daughters and mine, need to be wisely taught and guarded just along
these lines, if your sons and mine, your daughters and mine, are to grow up into a pure, healthy,
Christian manhood and womanhood.

8.[Footnote: This quotation is an appeal to mothers by Mrs. P.B. Saur, M.D.] "How grand is
the boy who has kept himself undefiled! His complexion clear, his muscles firm, his movements
vigorous, his manner frank, his courage undaunted, his brain active, his will firm, his self-control
perfect, his body and mind unfolding day by day. His life should be one song of praise and
thanksgiving. If you want your boy to be such a one, train him, my dear woman, to-day, and
his to-morrow will take care of itself.

9. "Think you that good seed sown will bring forth bitter fruit? A thousand times, No! As we
sow, so shall we reap. Train your boys in morality, temperance and virtue. Teach them to embrace
good and shun evil. Teach them the true from the false; the light from the dark. Teach them
that when they take a thing that is not their own, they commit a sin. Teach them that sin means
disobedience of God's laws of every kind.

10. "God made every organ of our body with the intention that it should perform a certain work.
If we wish to see, we use our eyes; if we want to hear, our ears are called into use. In fact,
nature teaches us the proper use of all our organs. I say to you, mother, and oh, so earnestly:
'Go teach your boy that which you may never be ashamed to do, about these organs that make
him specially a boy.'

11. "Teach him they are called sexual organs; that they are not impure, but of special importance,
and made by God for a definite purpose. Teach him that there are impurities taken from the
system in fluid form called urine, and that it passes through the sexual organs, but that nature
takes care of that. Teach him that these organs are given as a sacred trust, that in maturer
years he may be the means of giving life to those who shall live forever.

12. "Impress upon him that if these organs are abused, or if they are put to any use besides
that for which God made them and He did not intend they should be used at all until man is
fully grown they will bring disease and ruin upon those who abuse and disobey the laws which
God has made to govern them. If he has ever learned to handle his sexual organs, or to touch
them in any way except to keep them clean, not to do it again. If he does he will not grow
up happy, healthy and strong.

13. "Teach him that when he handles or excites the sexual organs all parts of the body suffer,
because they are connected by nerves that run throughout the system; this is why it is called
'self-abuse.' The whole body is abused when this part of the body is handled or excited in
any manner whatever. Teach them to shun all children who indulge in this loathsome habit, or
all children who talk about these things. The sin is terrible, and is, in fact, worse than
lying or stealing. For, although these are wicked and will ruin their souls, yet this habit
of self-abuse will ruin both soul and body.

14. "If the sexual organs are handled, it brings too much blood to these parts, and this produces
a diseased condition; it also causes disease in other organs of the body, because they are
left with a less amount of blood than they ought to have. The sexual organs, too, are very
closely connected with the spine and the brain by means of the nerves, and if they are handled,
or if you keep thinking about them, these nerves get excited and become exhausted, and this
makes the back ache, the brain heavy and the whole body weak.

15. "It lays the foundation for consumption, paralysis and heart disease. It weakens the memory,
makes a boy careless, negligent and listless. It even makes many lose their minds; others,
when grown, commit suicide. How often mothers see their little boys handling themselves, and
let it pass, because they think the boy will outgrow the habit, and do not realize the strong
hold it has upon them. I say to you who love your boys 'Watch!'

16. "Don't think it does no harm to your boy because he does not suffer now, for the effects
of this vice come on so slowly that the victim is often very near death before you realize
that he has done himself harm. The boy with no knowledge of the consequences, and with no one
to warn him, finds momentary pleasure in its practice, and so contracts a habit which grows
upon him, undermining his health, poisoning his mind, arresting his development, and laying
the foundation for future misery.

17. "Do not read this book and forget it, for it contains earnest and living truths. Do not
let false modesty stand in your way, but from this time on keep this thought in mind 'the saving
of your boy.' Follow its teachings and you will bless God as long as you live. Read it to your
neighbors, who, like yourself, have growing boys, and urge them for the sake of humanity to
heed its advice.

18. "Right here we want to emphasize the importance of cleanliness. We verily believe that
oftentimes these habits originate in a burning and irritating sensation about the organs, caused
by a want of thorough washing.

19. "It is worthy of note that many eminent physicians now advocate the custom of circumcision,
claiming that the removal of a little of the foreskin induces cleanliness, thus preventing
the irritation and excitement which come from the gathering of the whiteish matter under the
foreskin at the beginning of the glands. This irritation being removed, the boy is less apt
to tamper with his sexual organs. The argument seems a good one, especially when we call to
mind the high physical state of those people who have practiced the custom.

20. "Happy is the mother who can feel she has done her duty, in this direction, while her boy
is still a child. For those mothers, though, whose little boys have now grown to boyhood with
the evil still upon them, and you, through ignorance, permitted it, we would say, 'Begin at
once; it is never too late.' If he has not lost all will power, he can be saved. Let him go
in confidence to a reputable physician and follow his advice. Simple diet, plentiful exercise
in open air and congenial employment will do much. Do not let the mind dwell upon evil thoughts,
shun evil companions, avoid vulgar stories, sensational novels, and keep the thoughts pure.

21. "Let him interest himself in social and benevolent affairs, participate in Sunday-school
work, farmers' clubs, or any organizations which tend to elevate and inspire noble sentiment.
Let us remember that 'a perfect man is the noblest work of God.' God has given us a life which
is to last forever, and the little time we spend on earth is as nothing to the ages which we
are to spend in the world beyond; so our earthly life is a very important part of our existence,
for it is here that the foundation is laid for either happiness or misery in the future. It
is here that we decide our destiny, and our efforts to know and obey God's laws in our bodies
as well as in our souls will not only bring blessings to us in this life, but never-ending
happiness throughout eternity."

22. A QUESTION. How can a father chew and smoke tobacco, drink and swear, use vulgar language,
tell obscene stories, and raise a family of pure, clean-minded children? LET THE ECHO ANSWER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INHUMANITIES OF PARENTS.

1. Think of a strong man from one hundred and fifty to two hundred pounds in weight, pouncing
upon a little child, like a Tiger upon a Lamb, and with his strong arm inflicting physical
blows on the delicate tissues of a child's body. See its frail and trembling flesh quiver and
its tender nervous organization shaking with terror and fear.

2. How often is this the case in the punishment of children all over this broad land! Death
is not often the immediate consequence of this brutality as in the above stated case, but the
punishment is often as unjust, and the physical constitution of children is often ruined and
the mind by fright seriously injured.

3. Everyone knows the sudden sense of pain, and sometimes dizziness and nausea follow, as the
results of an accidental hitting of the ankle, knee or elbow against a hard substance, and
involuntary tears are brought to the eyes; but what is such a pain as this compared with the
pains of a dozen or more quick blows on the body of a little helpless child from the strong
arm of a parent in a passion? Add to this overwhelming terror of fright, the strangulating
effects of sighing and shrieking, and you have a complete picture of child-torture.

4.

5. Why may not lying be as legitimately cured by blisters made with hot coals as by black and
blue spots made with a ruler or whip? The principle is the same; and if the principle is right,
why not multiply methods?

6.

7. We do not intend to be understood that a child must have everything that it desires and
every whim and wish to receive special recognition by the parents. Children can soon be made
to understand the necessity of obedience, and punishment can easily be brought about by teaching
them self-denial. Deny them the use of a certain plaything, deny them the privilege of visiting
certain of their little friends, deny them the privilege of the table, etc., and these self-denials
can be applied according to the age and condition of the child, with firmness and without any
yielding. Children will soon learn obedience if they see the parents are sincere. Lessons of
home government can be learned by the children at home as well as they can learn lessons at school.

8. The trouble is, many parents need more government, more training and more discipline than
the little ones under their control.

9. When we speak to an elder person, we say, would you be so kind as to close the door, when
the same person making the request of a child will say, "Shut the door." "Bring me the chair."
"Stop that noise." "Sit down there." Whereas, if the same kindness was used towards the child
it would soon learn to imitate the example.

10. On the other hand, let a child ask for anything without saying "please," receive anything
without saying "thank you," it suffers a rebuke and a look of scorn at once. Often a child
insists on having a book, chair or apple to the inconveniencing of an elder, and what an outcry
is raised: "Such rudeness;" "Such an ill-mannered child;" "His parents must have neglected
him strangely."

11. It is a bad policy to be rude to children. A child will win and be won, and in a long run
the chances are that the child will have better manners than its parents. Give them a good
example and take pains in teaching them lessons of obedience and propriety, and there will
be little difficulty in raising a family of beautiful and well-behaved children.

12. Never correct a child in the presence of others; it is a rudeness to the child that will
soon destroy its self-respect. It is the way criminals are made and should always and everywhere
be condemned.

13. There are thousands of young men and women to-day groaning under the penalties and burdens
of life, who owe their misfortunes, their shipwreck and ruin to the ignorance or indifference
of parents.

14. Parents of course love their children, but with that love there is a responsibility that
cannot be shirked. The government and training of children is a study that demands a parent's
time and attention often much more than the claims of business.

15. Parents, study the problems that come up every day in your home. Remember, your future
happiness, and the future welfare of your children, depend upon it.

16. CRIMINALS AND HEREDITY. Wm. M.F. Round was for many years in charge of the House of Refuge
on Randall's Island, New York, and his opportunities for observation in the work among criminals
surely make him a competent judge, and he says in his letter to the New York Observer: "Among
this large number of young offenders I can state with entire confidence that not one per cent.
were children born of criminal parents; and with equal confidence I am able to say that the
common cause of their delinquency was found in bad parental training, in bad companionship,
and in lack of wholesome restraint from evil associations and influences. It was this knowledge
that led to the establishing of the House of Refuge nearly three-quarters of a century ago."

17. BAD TRAINING. Thus it is seen from one of the best authorities in the United States that
criminals are made either by the indifference or the neglect of parents, or both, or by too
much training without proper judgment and knowledge. Give your children a good example, and
never tell a child to do something and then become indifferent as to whether they do it or
not. A child should never be told twice to do the same thing. Teach the child in childhood
obedience and never vary from that rule. Do it kindly but firmly.

18. IF YOUR CHILDREN DO NOT OBEY OR RESPECT YOU in their childhood and youth, how can you expect
to govern them when older and shape their character for future usefulness and good citizenship?

19. THE FUNDAMENTAL RULE. Never tell a child twice to do the same thing. Command the respect
of your children, and there will be no question as to obedience.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHASTITY AND PURITY OF CHARACTER.

1. CHASTITY is the purest and brightest jewel in human character.

2.

3. SEXUAL PROPENSITIES are possessed by all, and these must be held in abeyance, until they
are needed for legitimate purposes.

  Give your young people plenty of outdoor amusement; less of
  dancing and more of croquet and lawn tennis. Stimulate the methods
  of pure thoughts in innocent amusement, and your sons and daughters
  will mature to manhood and womanhood pure and chaste in character.

4. IGNORANCE DOES NOT MEAN INNOCENCE.--It is a current idea, especially among our good common
people, that the child should be kept in ignorance regarding the mystery of his own body and
how he was created or came into the world. This is a great mistake. Parents must know that
the sources of social impurity are great, and the child is a hundred times more liable to have
his young mind poisoned if entirely ignorant of the functions of his nature than if judiciously
enlightened on these important truths by the parent. The parent must give him weapons of defense
against the putrid corruption he is sure to meet outside the parental roof. The child cannot
get through the A, B, C period of school without it.

5. CONFLICTING VIEWS.--There is a great difference of opinion regarding the age at which the
child should be taught the mysteries of nature: some maintain that he cannot comprehend the
subject before the age of puberty; others say "they will find it out soon enough, it is not
best to have them over-wise while they are so young. Wait a while." That is just the point
(they will find it out), and we ask in all candor, is it not better that they learn it from
the pure loving mother, untarnished from any insinuating remark, than that they should learn
it from some foul-mouthed libertine on the street, or some giddy girl at school? Mothers! fathers!
which think you is the most sensible and fraught with the least danger to your darling boy or girl?

6. DELAY IS FRAUGHT WITH DANGER.--Knowledge on a subject so vitally connected with moral health
must not be deferred. It is safe to say that no child, no boy at least in these days of excitement
and unrest, reaches the age of ten years without getting some idea of nature's laws regarding
parenthood. And ninety-nine chances to one, those ideas will be vile and pernicious unless
they come from a wise, loving and pure parent. Now, we entreat you, parents, mothers! do not
wait; begin before a false notion has had chance to find lodgment in the childish mind. But
remember this is a lesson of life, it cannot be told in one chapter, it is as important as
the lessons of love and duty.

7. THE FIRST LESSONS.--Should you be asked by your four or five-year old, "Mamma, where did
you get me?" Instead of saying, "The doctor brought you," or "God made you and a stork brought
you from Babyland on his back," tell him the truth as you would about any ordinary question.
One mother's explanation was something like this: "My dear, you were not made any more than
apples are made, or the little chickens are made. Your dolly was made, but it has no life like
you have. God has provided that all living things such as plants, trees, little chickens, little
kittens, little babies, etc., should grow from seeds or little tiny eggs. Apples grow, little
chickens grow, little babies grow. Apple and peach trees grow from seeds that are planted in
the ground, and the apples and peaches grow on the trees. Baby chickens grow inside the eggs
that are kept warm by the mother hen for a certain time. Baby boys and girls do not grow inside
an egg, but they start to grow inside of a snug warm nest, from an egg that is so small you
cannot see it with just your eye." This was not given at once, but from time to time as the
child asked questions and in the simplest language, with many illustrations from plant and
animal life. It may have occupied months, but in time the lesson was fully understood.

8. THE SECOND LESSON.--The second lesson came with the question, "But where is the nest?" The
ice is now broken, as it were; it was an easy matter for the mother to say, "The nest in which
you grew, dear, was close to your mother's heart inside her body. All things that do not grow
inside the egg itself, and which are kept warm by the mother's body, begin to grow from the
egg in a nest inside the mother's body." It may be that this mother had access to illustrations
of the babe in the womb which were shown and explained to the child, a boy. He was pleased
and satisfied with the explanations. It meant nothing out of the ordinary any more than a primary
lesson on the circulatory system did, it was knowledge on nature in its purity and simplicity
taught by mother, and hence caused no surprise. The subject of the male and female generative
organs came later; the greatest pains and care was taken to make it clear, the little boy was
taught that the sexual organs were made for a high and holy purpose, that their office at present
is only to carry off impurities from the system in the fluid form called urine, and that he
must never handle his sexual organs nor touch them in any way except to keep them clean, and
if he does this, he will grow up a bright, happy and healthy boy. But if he excites or abuses
them, he will become puny, sickly and unhappy. All this was explained in language pure and
simple. There is now in the boy a sturdy base of character building along the line of virtue
and purity through knowledge.

9. SILLY DIRTY TRASH.--But I hear some mother say "Such silly dirty trash to tell a child!"
It is not dirty nor silly; it is nature's untarnished truth. God has ordained that children
should thus be brought into the world, do you call the works of God silly? Remember, kind mother,
and don't forget it, if you fail to teach your children, boys or girls, these important lessons
early in life, they will learn them from other sources, perhaps long ere you dream of it, and
ninety-nine times out of one hundred they will get improper, perverted, impure and vile ideas
of these important truths; besides you nave lost their confidence and you will never regain
it in these matters. They will never come to mamma for information on these subjects. And,
think you, that your son and daughter, later in life will make you their confidant as they
ought? Will your beautiful daughter hand the first letters she receives from her lover to mamma
to read, and seek her counsel and advice when she replies to them? Will she ask mamma whether
it is ever proper to sit in her lover's lap? I think not; you have blighted her confidence
and alienated her affections. You have kept knowledge from her that she had a right to know;
you even failed to teach her the important truths of menstruation. Troubled and excited at
the first menstrual flow, she dashed her feet in cold water hoping to stop the flow. You know
the results she is now twenty-five but is suffering from it to this day. You, her mother, over
fastidious, so very nice you would never mention "such silly trash" but by your consummate
foolishness and mock modesty you have ruined your daughter's health, and though in later years
she may forgive you, yet she can never love and respect you as she ought.

10. "KNOWLEDGE THE PRESERVER OF PURITY."--Laura E. Scammon, writing on this subject, in the
Arena of November, 1893, says: "When questions arise that can not be answered by observation,
reply to each as simply and directly as you answer questions upon other subjects, giving scientific
names and facts, and such explanations as are suited to the comprehension of the child. Treat
nature and her laws always with serious, respectful attention. Treat the holy mysteries of
parenthood reverently, never losing sight of the great law upon which are founded all others
the law of love. Say it and sing it, play it and pray it into the soul of your child, that
love is lord of all."

11. CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER.--Observation and common sense should teach every parent
that lack of knowledge on these subjects and proper counsel and advice in later years is the
main cause of so many charming girls being seduced and led astray, and so many bright promising
boys wrecked by self-abuse or social impurity. Make your children your confidants early in
life, especially in these things, have frequent talks with them on nature, and you will never,
other things being equal, mourn over a ruined daughter or a wreckless, debased son.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXCITING THE PASSIONS IN CHILDREN.

1. CONVERSATION BEFORE CHILDREN.--The conduct and conversation of adults before children and
youth, how often have I blushed with shame, and kindled with indignation at the conversation
of parents, and especially of mothers, to their children: "John, go and kiss Harriet, for she
is your sweet-heart." Well may shame make him hesitate and hang his head. "Why, John, I did
not think you so great a coward. Afraid of the girls, are you? That will never do. Come, go
along, and hug and kiss her. There, that's a man. I guess you will love the girls yet." Continually
is he teased about the girls and being in love, till he really selects a sweet-heart.

2. THE LOSS OF MAIDEN PURITY AND NATURAL DELICACY.--I will not lift the veil, nor expose the
conduct of children among themselves. And all this because adults have filled their heads with
those impurities which surfeit their own. What could more effectually wear off that natural
delicacy, that maiden purity and bashfulness, which form the main barriers against the influx
of vitiated Amativeness? How often do those whose modesty has been worn smooth, even take pleasure
in thus saying and doing things to raise the blush on the cheek of youth and innocence, merely
to witness the effect of this improper illusion upon them; little realizing that they are thereby
breaking down the barriers of their virtue, and prematurely kindling the fires of animal passion!

3. BALLS. PARTIES AND AMUSEMENTS.--The entire machinery of balls and parties, of dances and
other amusements of young people, tend to excite and inflame this passion. Thinking it a fine
thing to get in love, they court and form attachments long before either their mental or physical
powers are matured. Of course, these young loves, these green-house exotics, must be broken
off, and their miserable subjects left burning up with the fierce fires of a flaming passion,
which, if left alone, would have slumbered on for years, till they were prepared for its proper
management and exercise.

4. SOWING THE SEEDS FOR FUTURE RUIN.--Nor is it merely the conversation of adults that does
all this mischief; their manners also increase it. Young men take the hands of girls from six
to thirteen years old, kiss them, press them, and play with them so as, in a great variety
of ways, to excite their innocent passions, combined, I grant, with friendship and refinement--for
all this is genteely done. They intend no harm, and parents dream of none: and yet their embryo
love is awakened, to be again still more easily excited. Maiden ladies, and even married women,
often express similar feelings towards lads, not perhaps positively improper in themselves,
yet injurious in their ultimate effects.

5. READING NOVELS.--How often have I seen girls not twelve years old, as hungry for a story
or novel as they should be for their dinners! A sickly sentimentalism is thus formed, and their
minds are sullied with impure desires. Every fashionable young lady must of course read every
new novel, though nearly all of them contain exceptionable allusions, perhaps delicately covered
over with a thin gauze of fashionable refinement; yet, on that very account, the more objectionable.
If this work contained one improper allusion to their ten, many of those fastidious ladies
who now eagerly devour the vulgarities of Dumas, and the double-entendres of Bulwer, and even
converse with gentlemen about their contents, would discountenance or condemn it as improper.
Shame on novel-reading women; for they cannot have pure minds or unsullied feelings, but Cupid
and the beaux, and waking of dreams of love, are fast consuming their health and virtue.

6. THEATER-GOING.--Theaters and theatrical dancing, also inflame the passions, and are "the
wide gate" of "the broad road" of moral impurity. Fashionable music is another, especially
the verses set to it, being mostly love-sick ditties, or sentimental odes, breathing this tender
passion in its most melting and bewitching strains. Improper prints often do immense injury
in this respect, as do also balls, parties, annuals, newspaper articles, exceptional works, etc.

7. THE CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER.--Stop for one moment and think for yourself and you
will be convinced that the sentiment herein announced is for your good and the benefit of all
mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBERTY, VIRILITY AND HYGIENIC LAWS.

1. WHAT IS PUBERTY?--The definition is explained in another portion of this book, but it should
be understood that it is not a prompt or immediate change; it is a slow extending growth and
may extend for many years. The ripening of physical powers do not take place when the first
signs of puberty appear.

2. PROPER AGE.--The proper age for puberty should vary from twelve to eighteen years. As a
general rule, in the more vigorous and the more addicted to athletic exercise or out-door life,
this change is slower in making its approach.

3. HYGIENIC ATTENTION.--Youths at this period should receive special private attention. They
should be taught the purpose of the sexual organs and the proper hygienic laws that govern
them, and they should also be taught to rise in the morning and not to lie in bed after waking
up, because it is largely owing to this habit that the secret vice is contracted. One of the
common causes of premature excitement in many boys is a tight foreskin. It may cause much evil
and ought always to be remedied. Ill-fitting garments often cause much irritation in children
and produce unnatural passions. It is best to have boys sleep in separate beds and not have
them sleep together if it can be avoided.

4. PROPER INFLUENCE.--Every boy and girl should be carefully trained to look with disgust on
everything that is indecent in word or action. Let them be taught a sense of shame in doing
shameful things, and teach them that modesty is honorable, and that immodesty is indecent and
dishonorable. Careful training at the proper age may save many a boy or girl from ruin.

5. SEXUAL PASSIONS.--The sexual passions may be a fire from heaven, or a subtle flame from
hell. It depends upon the government and proper control. The noblest and most unselfish emotions
take their arise in the passion of sex. Its sweet influence, its elevating ties, its vibrations
and harmony, all combine to make up the noble and courageous traits of man.

6. WHEN PASSIONS BEGIN.--It is thought by some that passions begin at the age of puberty, but
the passions may be produced as early as five or ten years. All depends upon the training or
the want of it. Self-abuse is not an uncommon evil at the age of eight or ten. A company of
bad boys often teach an innocent child that which will develop his ruin. A boy may feel a sense
of pleasure at eight and produce a slight discharge, but not of semen. Thus it is seen that
parents may by neglect do their child the greatest injury.

7. FALSE MODESTY.--Let there be no false modesty on part of the parents. Give the child the
necessary advice and instructions as soon as necessary.

8. THE MAN UNSEXED, by Mutilation or Masturbation. Eunuchs are proverbial for tenor cruelty
and crafty and unsympathizing dispositions. Their mental powers are feeble and their physical
strength is inferior. They lack courage and physical endurance. When a child is operated upon
before the age of puberty, the voice retains its childish treble, the limbs their soft and
rounded outlines, and the neck acquires a feminine fulness; no beard makes its appearance.
In ancient times and up to this time in Oriental nations eunuchs are found. They are generally
slaves who have suffered mutilation at a tender age. It is a scientific fact that where boys
have been taught the practice of masturbation in their early years, say from eight to fourteen
years of age, if they survive at all they often have their powers reduced to a similar condition
of a eunuch. They generally however suffer a greater disadvantage. Their health will be more
or less injured. In the eunuch the power of sexual intercourse is not entirely lost, but of
course there is sterility, and little if any satisfaction, and the same thing may be true of
the victim of self-abuse.

9. SIGNS OF VIRILITY.--As the young man develops in strength and years the sexual appetite
will manifest itself. The secretion of the male known as the seed or semen depends for the
life-transmitting power upon little minute bodies called spermatozoa. These are very active
and numerous in a healthy secretion, being many hundreds in a single drop and a single one
of them is capable to bring about conception in a female. Dr. Napheys in his "Transmission
of Life," says: "The secreted fluid has been frozen and kept at a temperature of zero for four
days, yet when it was thawed these animalcules, as they are supposed to be, were as active
as ever. They are not, however, always present, and when present may be of variable activity.
In young men, just past puberty, and in aged men, they are often scarce and languid in motion."
At the proper age the secretion is supposed to be the most active, generally at the age of
twenty-five, and decreases as age increases.

10. HYGIENIC RULE.--The man at mid-life should guard carefully his passions and the husband
his virile powers, and as the years progress, steadily wean himself more from his desire, for
his passions will become weaker with age and any excitement in middle life may soon debilitate
and destroy his virile powers.

11. FOLLIES OF YOUTH.--Dr. Napheys says: "Not many men can fritter away a decade or two of
years in dissipation and excess, and ever hope to make up their losses by rigid surveillance
in later years." "The sins of youth are expiated in age," is a proverb which daily examples
illustrate. In proportion as puberty is precocious, will decadence be premature; the excesses
of middle life draw heavily on the fortune of later years. "The mill of the gods grinds slow,
but it grinds exceedingly fine," and though nature may be a tardy creditor, she is found at
last to be an inexorable one.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR SECRET SINS.

1. PASSIONS.--Every healthful man has sexual desires and he might as well refuse to satisfy
his hunger as to deny their existence. The Creator has given us various appetites intended
they should be indulged, and has provided the means.

2. REASON.--While it is true that a healthy man has strongly developed sexual passions, yet,
God has crowned man with reason, and with a proper exercise of this wonderful faculty of the
human mind no lascivious thoughts need to control the passions. A pure heart will develop pure
thoughts and bring out a good life.

3. RIOTING IN VISIONS.--Dr. Lewis says: "Rioting in visions of nude women may exhaust one as
much as an excess in actual intercourse. There are multitudes who would never spend the night
with an abandoned female, but who rarely meet a young girl that their imaginations are not
busy with her person. This species of indulgence is well-nigh universal; and it is the source
of all other forms the fountain from which the external vices spring, and the nursery of masturbation."

4. COMMITTING ADULTERY IN THE HEART.--A young man who allows his mind to dwell upon the vision
of nude women will soon become a victim of ruinous passion, and either fall under the influence
of lewd women or resort to self-abuse. The man who has no control over his mind and allows
impure thoughts to be associated with the name of every female that may be suggested to his
mind, is but committing adultery in his heart, just as guilty at heart as though he had committed
the deed.

5. UNCHASTITY.--So far as the record is preserved, unchastity has contributed above all other
causes, more to the ruin and exhaustion and demoralization of the race than all other wickedness.
And we shall not be likely to vanquish the monster, even in ourselves, unless we make the thoughts
our point of attack. So long as they are sensual we are indulging in sexual abuse, and are
almost sure, when temptation is presented, to commit the overt acts of sin. If we cannot succeed
within, we may pray in vain for help to resist the tempter outwardly. A young man who will
indulge in obscene language will be guilty of a worse deed if opportunity is offered.

6. BAD DRESSING.--If women knew how much mischief they do men they would change some of their
habits of dress. The dress of their busts, the padding in different parts, are so contrived
as to call away attention from the soul and fix it on the bosom and hips. And then, many, even
educated women, are careful to avoid serious subjects in our presence one minute before a gentleman
enters the room they may be engaged in thoughtful discussion, but the moment he appears their
whole style changes; they assume light fascinating ways, laugh sweet little bits of laughs,
and turn their heads this way and that, all which forbids serious thinking and gives men over
to imagination.

7. THE LUSTFUL EYE.--How many men there are who lecherously stare at every woman in whose presence
they happen to be. These monsters stare at women as though they were naked in a cage on exhibition.
A man whose whole manner is full of animal passion is not worthy of the respect of refined
women. They have no thoughts, no ideas, no sentiments, nothing to interest them but the bodies
of women whom they behold. The moral character of young women has no significance or weight
in their eyes. This kind of men are a curse to society and a danger to the community. No young
lady is safe in their company.

8. REBUKING SENSUALISM.--If the young women would exercise an honorable independence and heap
contempt upon the young men that allow their imagination to take such liberties, a different
state of things would soon follow. Men of that type of character should have no recognition
in the presence of ladies.

9. EARLY MARRIAGES.--There can be no doubt that early marriages are bad for both parties. For
children of such a marriage always lack vitality. The ancient Germans did not marry until the
twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth year, previous to which they observed the most rigid chastity,
and in consequence they acquired a size and strength that excited the astonishment of Europe.
The present incomparable vigor of that race, both physically and mentally, is due in a great
measure to their long established aversion to marrying young. The results of too early marriages
are in brief, stunted growth and impaired strength on the part of the male; delicate if not
utterly bad health in the female; the premature old age or death of one or both, and a puny,
sickly offspring.

10. SIGNS OF EXCESSES.--Dr. Dio Lewis says: "Some of the most common effects of sexual excess
are backache, lassitude, giddiness, dimness of sight, noises in the ears, numbness of the fingers,
and paralysis. The drain is universal, but the more sensitive organs and tissues suffer most.
So the nervous system gives way and continues the principal sufferer throughout. A large part
of the premature loss of sight and hearing, dizziness, numbness and pricking in the hands and
feet, and other kindred developments, are justly chargeable to unbridled venery. Not unfrequently
you see men whose head or back or nerve testifies of such reckless expenditure."

11. NON-COMPLETED INTERCOURSE.--Withdrawal before the emission occurs is injurious to both
parties. The soiling of the conjugal bed by the shameful manoeuvres is to be deplored.

12. So who knows if the too often feeble and weakened infants are not the fruit of these in
themselves incomplete procreations, and disturbed by preoccupations foreign to the natural act.

13.

14. CROWNING SIN OF THE AGE.--Then there is the crime of abortion which is so prevalent in
these days. It is the crowning sin of the age, though in a broader sense it includes all those
sins that are committed to limit the size of the family. "It lies at the root of our spiritual
life," says Rev. B.D. Sinclair, "and though secret in its nature, paralyzes Christian life
and neutralizes every effort for righteousness which the church puts forth."

15. SEXUAL EXHAUSTION.--Every sexual excitement is exhaustive in proportion to its intensity
and continuance. If a man sits by the side of a woman, fondles and kisses her three or four
hours, and allows his imagination to run riot with sexual visions, he will be five times as
much exhausted as he would by the act culminating in emission. It is the sexual excitement
more than the emission which exhausts. As shown in another part of this work, thoughts of sexual
intimacies, long continued, lead to the worst effects. To a man, whose imagination is filled
with erotic fancies the emission comes as a merciful interruption to the burning, harassing
and wearing excitement which so constantly goads him.

16. THE DESIRE OF GOOD.--The desire of good for its own sake--this is Love. The desire of good
for bodily pleasure--this is Lust. Man is a moral being, and as such should always act in the
animal sphere according to the spiritual law. Hence, to break the law of the highest creative
action for the mere gratification of animal instinct is to perform the act of sin and to produce
the corruption of nature.

17. CAUSE OF PROSTITUTION.--Dr. Dio Lewis says: "Occasionally we meet a diseased female with
excessive animal passion, but such a case is very rare. The average woman has so little sexual
desire that if licentiousness depended upon her, uninfluenced by her desire to please man or
secure his support, there would be very little sexual excess. Man is strong he has all the
money and all the facilities for business and pleasure; and woman is not long in learning the
road to his favor. Many prostitutes who take no pleasure in their unclean intimacies not only
endure a disgusting life for the favor and means thus gained, but affect intense passion in
their sexual contacts because they have learned that such exhibitions gratify men."

18. HUSBAND'S BRUTALITY.--Husbands! It is your licentiousness that drives your wives to a deed
so abhorrent to their every wifely, womanly and maternal instinct a deed which ruins the health
of their bodies, prostitutes their souls, and makes marriage, maternity and womanhood itself
degrading and loathsome. No terms can sufficiently characterize the cruelty, meanness and disgusting
selfishness of your conduct when you impose on them a maternity so detested as to drive them
to the desperation of killing their unborn children and often themselves.

19. WHAT DRUNKARDS BEQUEATH TO THEIR OFFSPRING.--Organic imperfections unfit the brain for
sane action, and habit confirms the insane condition; the man's brain has become unsound. Then
comes in the law of hereditary descent, by which the brain of a man's children is fashioned
after his own not as it was originally, but as it has become, in consequence of frequent functional
disturbance. Hence, of all appetites, the inherited appetite for drunkenness is the most direful.
Natural laws contemplate no exceptions, and sins against them are never pardoned.

20. THE REPORTS OF HOSPITALS.--The reports of hospitals for lunatics almost universally assign
intemperance as one of the causes which predispose a man's offspring to insanity. This is even
more strikingly manifested in the case of congenital idiocy. They come generally from a class
of families which seem to have degenerated physically to a low degree. They are puny and sickly.

21. SECRET DISEASES.--See the weakly, sickly and diseased children who are born only to suffer
and die, all because of the private disease of the father before his marriage. Oh, let the
truth be told that the young men of our land may learn the lessons of purity of life. Let them
learn that in morality there is perfect protection and happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHYSICAL AND MORAL DEGENERACY.

1. MORAL PRINCIPLE.--"Edgar Allen Poe, Lord Byron, and Robert Burns," says Dr. Geo. F. Hall,
"were men of marvelous strength intellectually. But measured by the true rule of high moral
principle, they were very weak. Superior endowment in a single direction--physical, mental,
or spiritual--is not of itself sufficient to make one strong in all that that heroic word means.

2. INSANE ASYLUM.--many a good man spiritually has gone to an untimely grave because of impaired
physical powers. Many a good man spiritually has gone to the insane asylum because of bodily
and mental weaknesses. Many a good man spiritually has fallen from virtue in an evil moment
because of a weakened will, or a too demanding fleshly passion, or, worse than either, too
lax views on the subject of personal chastity."

3. BOYS LEARNING VICES.--some ignorant and timid people argue that boys and young men in reading
a work of this character will learn vices concerning which they had never so much as dreamed
of before. This is, however, certain, that vices cannot be condemned unless they are mentioned;
and if the condemnation is strong enough it surely will be a source of strength and of security.
If light and education, on these important subjects, does injury, then all knowledge likewise
must do more wrong than good. Knowledge is power, and the only hope of the race is enlightenment
on all subjects pertaining to their being.

4. MORAL MANHOOD.--it is clearly visible that the American manhood is rotting down--decaying
at the center. The present generation shows many men of a small body and weak principles, and
men and women of this kind are becoming more and more prevalent. Dissipation and indiscretions
of all kind are working ruin. Purity of life and temperate habits are being too generally disregarded.

5. YOUNG WOMEN.--the vast majority of graduates from the schools and colleges of our land to-day,
and two-thirds of the membership of our churches, and three-fourths of the charitable workers,
are females. Everywhere girls are carrying off most of the prizes in competitive examinations,
because women, as a sex, naturally maintain a better character, take better care of their bodies,
and are less addicted to bad and injurious habits. While all this is true in reference to females,
you will find that the male sex furnishes almost the entire number of criminals. The saloons,
gambling dens, the brothels, and bad literature are drawing down all that the public schools
can build up. Seventy per cent. Of the young men of this land do not darken the church door.
They are not interested in moral improvement or moral education. Eighty-five per cent. Leave
school under 15 years of age; prefer the loafer's honors to the benefit of school.

6. PROMOTION.--the world is full of good places for good young men, and all the positions of
trust now occupied by the present generation will soon be filled by the competent young men
of the coming generation; and he that keeps his record clean, lives a pure life, and avoids
excesses or dissipations of all kinds, and fortifies his life with good habits, is the young
man who will be heard from, and a thousand places will be open for his services.

7. PERSONAL PURITY.--Dr. George F. Hall says: "why not pay careful attention to man in all
his elements of strength, physical, mental, and moral? Why not make personal purity a fixed
principle in the manhood of the present and coming generation, and thus insure the best men
the world has ever seen? It can be done. Let every reader of these lines resolve that he will
be one to help do it."

       *       *       *       *       *

IMMORALITY, DISEASE AND DEATH.

1. THE POLICY OF SILENCE.--there is no greater delusion than to suppose that vast number of
boys know nothing about practices of sin. Some parents are afraid that unclean thoughts may
be suggested by these very defences. The danger is slight. Such cases are barely possible,
but when the untold thousands are thought of on the other side, who have been demoralized from
childhood through ignorance, and who are to-day suffering the result of these vicious practices,
the policy of silence stands condemned, and intelligent knowledge abundantly justified. The
emphatic words of scripture are true in this respect also, "the people are destroyed for lack
of knowledge."

2. LIVING ILLUSTRATION.--without fear of truthful contradiction, we affirm that the homes,
public assemblies, and streets of all our large cities abound to-day with living illustrations
and proofs of the widespread existence of this physical and moral scourge. An enervated and
stunted manhood, a badly developed physique, a marked absence of manly and womanly strength
and beauty, are painfully common everywhere. Boys and girls, young men and women, exist by
thousands, of whom it may be said, they were badly born and ill-developed. Many of them are,
to some extent, bearing the penalty of the  and excesses of their parents, especially their
fathers, whilst the great majority are reaping the fruits of their own immorality in a dwarfed
and ill-formed body, and effeminate appearance, weak and enervated mind.

3. EFFEMINATE AND SICKLY YOUNG MEN.--the purposeless and aimless life of any number of effeminate
and sickly young men, is to be distinctly attributed to these sins. The large class of mentally
impotent "ne'er-do-wells" are being constantly recruited and added to by those who practice
what the celebrated Erichson calls "that hideous sin engendered by vice, and practiced in solitude"--the
sin, be it observed, which is the common cause of physical and mental weakness, and of the
fearfully impoverishing night-emissions, or as they are commonly called, "wet-dreams."

4. WEAKNESS, DISEASE, DEFORMITY, AND DEATH.--Through self-pollution and fornication the land
is being corrupted with weakness, disease, deformity, and death. We regret to say that we cannot
speak with confidence concerning the moral character of the Jew; but we have people amongst
us who have deservedly a high character for the tone of their moral life--we refer to the members
of the Society of Friends. The average of life amongst these reaches no less than fifty-six
years; and, whilst some allowance must be made for the fact that amongst the Friends the poor
have not a large representation, these figures show conclusively the soundness of this position.

5. SOWING THEIR WILD OATS.--It is monstrous to suppose that healthy children should die just
as they are coming to manhood. The fact that thousands of young people do reach the age of
sixteen or eighteen, and then decline and die, should arouse parents to ask the question: Why?
Certainly it would not be difficult to tell the reason in thousands of instances, and yet the
habit and practice of the deadly sin of self-pollution is actually ignored; it is even spoken
of as a boyish folly not to be mentioned, and young men literally burning up with lust are
mildly spoken of as "sowing their wild oats." Thus the cemetery is being filled with masses
of the youth of America who, as in Egypt of old, fill up the graves of uncleanness and lust.
Some time since a prominent Christian man was taking exception to my addressing men on this
subject; observe this! one of his own sons was at that very time near the lunatic asylum through
these disgusting sins. What folly and madness this is!

6. DEATH TO TRUE MANHOOD.--The question for each one is, "In what way are you going to divert
the courses of the streams of energy which pertain to youthful vigor and manhood?" To be destitute
of that which may be described as raw material in the human frame, means that no really vigorous
manhood can have place; to burn up the juices of the system in the fires of lust is madness
and wanton folly, but it can be done. To divert the currents of life and energy from blood
and brain, from memory and muscle, in order to secrete it for the shambles of prostitution,
is death to true manhood; but remember, it can be done! The generous liquid life may inspire
the brain and blood with noble impulse and vital force, or it may be sinned away and drained
out of the system until the jaded brain, the faded cheek, the enervated young manhood, the
gray hair, narrow chest, weak voice, and the enfeebled mind show another victim in the long
catalogue of the degraded through lust.

7. THE SISTERHOOD OF SHAME AND DEATH.--Whenever we pass the sisterhood of death, and hear the
undertone of song, which is one of the harlot's methods of advertising, let us recall the words,
that these represent the "pestilence which walketh in darkness, the destruction that wasteth
at noonday." The allusion, of course, is to the fact that the great majority of these harlots
are full of loathsome physical and moral disease; with the face and form of an angel, these
women "bite like a serpent and sting like an adder;" their traffic is not for life, but inevitably
for shame, disease, and death. Betrayed and seduced themselves, they in their turn betray and
curse others.

8. WARNING OTHERS.--Have you never been struck with the argument of the Apostle, who, warning
others from the corrupt example of the fleshy Esau, said, "Lest there be any fornicator or
profane person as Esau, who for one mess of meat sold his own birthright. Terrible and striking
words are these. His birthright sold for a mess of meat. The fearful costs of sin--yes, that
is the thought, particularly the sin of fornication! Engrave that word upon your memories and
hearts--"One mess of meat."

9. THE HARLOT'S MESS OF MEAT.--Remember it, young men, when you are tempted to this sin. For
a few minutes' sensual pleasure, for a mess of harlot's meat, young men are paying out the
love of the son and brother; they are deceiving, lying, and cheating for a mess of meat; for
a mess, not seldom of putrid flesh, men have paid down purity and prayer, manliness and godliness;
for a mess of meat some perhaps have donned their best attire, and assumed the manners of the
gentleman, and then, like an infernal hypocrite flogged the steps of maiden or harlot to satisfy
their degrading lust; for a mess of meat young men have deceived father and mother, and shrunk
from the embrace of love of the pure-minded sister. For the harlot's mess of meat some listening
to me have spent scores of hours of invaluable time. They have wearied the body, diseased and
demoralized the mind. The pocket has been emptied, theft committed, lies unnumbered told, to
play the part of the harlot's mate--perchance a six-foot fool, dragged into the filth and mire
of the harlot's house. You called her your friend, when, but for her mess of meat, you would
have passed her like dirt in the street.

10. SEEING LIFE.--You consorted with her for your mutual shame and death, and then called it
"seeing life." Had your mother met you, you would have shrunk away like a craven cur. Had your
sister interviewed you, she had blushed to bear your name; or had she been seen by you in company
with some other whoremaster, for similar commerce, you would have wished that she had been
dead. Now what think you of this "seeing life?" And it is for this that tens of thousands of
strong men in our large cities are selling their birthright.

11. THE DEVIL'S DECOYS.--Some may be ready to affirm that physical and moral penalties do not
appear to overtake all men; that many men known to be given to intemperance and sensuality
are strong, well, and live to a good age. Let us not make any mistake concerning these; they
are exceptions to the rule; the appearance of health in them is but the grossness of sensuality.
You have only carefully to look into the faces of these men to see that their countenances,
eyes, and speech betray them. They are simply the devil's decoys.

12. GROSSNESS OF SENSUALITY.--The poor degraded harlot draws in the victims like a heavily
charged lodestone; these men are found in large numbers throughout the entire community; they
would make fine men were they not weighted with the grossness of sensuality; as it is, they
frequent the race-course, the card-table, the drinking-saloon, the music-hall, and the low
theaters, which abound in our cities and towns; the great majority of these are men of means
and leisure. Idleness is their curse, their opportunity for sin; you may know them as the loungers
over refreshment-bars, as the retailers of the latest filthy joke, or as the vendors of some
disgusting scandal; indeed, it is appalling the number of these lepers found both in our business
and social circles.

       *       *       *       *       *

POISONOUS LITERATURE AND BAD PICTURES.

1. OBSCENE LITERATURE.--No other source contributes so much to sexual immorality as obscene
literature. The mass of stories published in the great weeklies and the cheap novels are mischievous.
When the devil determines to take charge of a young soul, be often employs a very ingenious
method. He slyly hands a little novel filled with "voluptuous forms," "reclining on bosoms,"
"languishing eyes," etc.

2. MORAL FORCES.--The world is full of such literature. It is easily accessible, for it is
cheap, and the young will procure it, and therefore become easy prey to its baneful influence
and effects. It weakens the moral forces of the young, and they thereby fall an easy prey before
the subtle schemes of the libertine.

3. BAD BOOKS.--Bad books play not a small part in the corruption of the youth.

4.

5.

6. SENTIMENTAL LITERATURE OF LOW FICTION.--Sentimental literature, whether impure in its subject
matter or not, has a direct tendency in the direction of impurity. The stimulation of the emotional
nature, the instilling of sentimental ideas into the minds of the young, has a tendency to
turn the thoughts into a channel which leads in the direction of the formation of vicious habits.

7. IMPRESSIONS LEFT BY READING QUESTIONABLE LITERATURE.--It is painful to see strong intelligent
men and youths reading bad books, or feasting their eyes on filthy pictures, for the practice
is sure to affect their personal purity. Impressions will be left which cannot fail to breed
a legion of impure thoughts, and in many instances criminal deeds. Thousands of elevator boys,
clerks, students, traveling men, and others, patronize the questionable literature counter
to an alarming extent.

8. THE NUDE IN ART.--For years there has been a great craze after the nude in art, and the
realistic in literature. Many art galleries abound in pictures and statuary which cannot fail
to fan the fires of sensualism, unless the thoughts of the visitor are trained to the strictest
purity. Why should artists and sculptors persist in shocking the finer sensibilities of old
and young of both sexes by crowding upon their view representations of naked human forms in
attitudes of luxurious abandon? Public taste may demand it. But let those who have the power
endeavor to reform public taste.

9. WIDELY DIFFUSED.--Good men have ever lamented the pernicious influence of a depraved and
perverted literature. But such literature has never been so systematically and widely diffused
as at the present time. This is owing to two causes, its cheapness and the facility of conveyance.

10. INFLAME THE PASSIONS.--A very large proportion of the works thus put in circulation are
of the worst character, tending to corrupt the principles, to inflame the passions, to excite
impure desire, and spread a blight over all the powers of the soul. Brothels are recruited
from this more than any other source. Those who search the trunks of convicted criminals are
almost sure to find in them one of more of these works; and few prisoners who can read at all
fail to enumerate among the causes which led them into crime the unhealthy stimulus of this
depraved and poisonous literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

STARTLING SINS.

1. NAMELESS CRIMES.--The nameless crimes identified with the hushed-up Sodomite cases; the
revolting condition of the school of Sodomy; the revelations of the Divorce Court concerning
the condition of what is called national nobility, and upper classes, as well as the unclean
spirit which attaches to "society papers," has revealed a condition which is perfectly disgusting.

2. UNFAITHFULNESS.--Unfaithfulness amongst husbands and wives in the upper classes is common
and adultery rife everywhere; mistresses are kept in all directions; thousands of these rich
men have at least two, and not seldom three establishments.

3. A FRIGHTFUL INCREASE.--Facts which have come to light during the past ten years show a frightful
increase in every form of licentiousness; the widely extended area over which whoredom and
degrading lust have thrown the glamor of their fascinating toils is simply appalling.

4. MORAL CARNAGE.--We speak against the fearful moral carnage; would to God that some unmistakable
manifestation of the wrath of God should come in and put a stop to this huge seed-plot of national
demoralization! We are reaping in this disgusting center the harvest of corruption which has
come from the toleration and encouragements given by the legislature, the police, and the magistrates
to immorality, vice and sin; the awful fact is that we are in the midst of the foul and foetid
harvest of lust. Aided by some of the most exalted personages in the land, assisted by thousands
of educated and wealthy whoremongers and adulterers, we are reaping also, in individual physical
ugliness and deformity, that which has been sown; the puny, ill-formed and mentally weak youths
and maidens, men and women, to be seen in large numbers in our principal towns and cities,
represent the widespread nature of the curse, which has, in a marked manner, impaired the physique,
the morality, and the intelligence of the nation.

5. DAILY PRESS.--The daily press has not had the moral courage to say one word; the quality
of demoralizing novels such as have been produced from the impure brain and unclean imaginations;
the subtle, clever and fascinating undermining of the white-winged angel of purity by modern
sophists, whose purient and vicious volumes were written to throw a halo of charm and beauty
about the brilliant courtesan and the splendid adulteress; the mixing up of lust and love;
the making of corrupt passion to stand in the garb of a deep, lasting, and holy affection--these
are some of the hidious seedlings which, hidden amid the glamor and fascination of the seeming
"angel of light," have to so large an extent corrupted the morality of the country.

6. NIGHTLY EXHIBITIONS.--Some of you know what the nightly exhibitions in these garlanded temples
of whorish incentive are. There is the variety theatre with its disgusting ballet dancing,
and its shamelessly indecent photographs exhibited in every direction. What a clear gain to
morality it would be if the accursed houses were burnt down, and forbidden by law ever to be
re-built or re-opened; the whole scene is designed to act upon and stimulate the lusts and
evil passions of corrupt men and women.

7. CONFIDENCE AND EXPOSURE.--I hear some of you say, cannot some influence be brought to bear
upon this plague-spot? Will the legislature or congress do nothing? Is the law and moral right
to continue to be trodden under foot? Are the magistrates and the police powerless? The truth
is, the harlots and whoremongers are master of the situation; the moral sense of the legislators,
the magistrates, and the police is so low that anything like confidence is at present out of
the question.

8. THE SISTERHOOD OF SHAME AND DEATH.--It is enough to make angels weep to see a great mass
of America's wealthy and better-class sons full of zeal and on fire with interest in the surging
hundreds of the sisterhood of shame and death. Many of these men act as if they were--if they
do not believe they are--dogs. No poor hunted dog in the streets was ever tracked by a yelping
crowd of curs more than is the fresh girl or chance of a maid in the accursed streets of our
large cities. Price is no object, nor parentage, nor home; it is the truth to affirm that hundreds
and thousands of well-dressed and educated men come in order to the gratification of their
lusts, and to this end they frequent this whole district; they have reached this stage, they
are being burned up in this fire of lust; men of whom God says, "Having eyes full of adultery
and that cannot cease sin."

9. LAW MAKERS.--Now should any member of the legislature rise up and testify against this "earthly
hell," and speak in defence of the moral manhood and womanhood of the nation, he would be greeted
as a fanatic, and laughed down amid derisive cheers; such has been the experience again and
again. Therefore attack this great stronghold which for the past thirty years has warred and
is warring against our social manhood and womanhood, and constantly undermining the moral life
of the nation; against this citadel of licentiousness, this metropolitan centre of crime, and
vice, and sin, direct your full blast of righteous and manly indignation.

10. TEMPLES OF LUST.--Here stand the foul and splendid temples of lust, intemperance, and passion,
into whose vortex tens of thousands of our sons and daughters are constantly being drawn. Let
it be remembered that this whole area represents the most costly conditions, and proves beyond
Question that an enormous proportion of the wealthy manhood of the nation, and we as citizens
sustain, partake, and share in this carnival of death. Is it any wonder that the robust type
of godly manhood which used to be found in the legislature is sadly wanting now, or that the
wretched caricatures of manhood which find form and place in such papers as "Truth" and the
"World" are accepted as representing "modern society?"

11. PURITANIC MANHOOD.--It is a melancholy fact that, by reason of uncleanness, we have almost
lost regard for the type of puritanic manhood which in the past held aloft the standard of
a chaste and holy life; such men in this day are spoken of as "too slow" as "weak-kneed," and
"goody-goody" men. Let me recall that word, the fast and indecently-dressed "things," the animals
of easy virtue, the "respectable" courtesans that flirt, chaff, gamble, and waltz with well-known
high-class licentious lepers--such is the ideal of womanhood which a large proportion of our
large city society accepts, fawns upon, and favors.

12. SHAMEFUL CONDITIONS.--Perhaps one of the most inhuman and shameful conditions of modern
fashionable society, both in England and America, is that which wealthy men and women who are
married destroy their own children in the embryo stage of being, and become murderers thereby.
This is done to prevent what should become one of our chief glories, viz., large and well-developed
and family life.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROSTITUTION OF MEN.

CAUSE AND REMEDY.

1. EXPOSED YOUTH.--Generally even in the beginning of the period when sexual uneasiness begins
to show itself in the boy, he is exposed in schools, institutes, and elsewhere to the temptations
of secret vice, which is transmitted from youth to youth, like a contagious corruption, and
which in thousands destroys the first germs of virility. Countless numbers of boys are addicted
to these vices for years. That they do not in the beginning of nascent puberty proceed to sexual
intercourse with women, is generally due to youthful timidity, which dares not reveal its desire,
or from want of experience for finding opportunities. The desire is there, for the heart is
already corrupted.

2. BOYHOOD TIMIDITY OVERCOME.--Too often a common boy's timidity is overcome by chance or by
seduction, which is rarely lacking in great cities where prostitution is flourishing, and thus
numbers of boys immediately after the transition period of youth, in accordance with the previous
secret practice, accustom themselves to the association with prostitute women, and there young
manhood and morals are soon lost forever.

3. MARRIAGE-BED RESOLUTIONS.--Most men of the educated classes enter the marriage-bed with
the consciousness of leaving behind them a whole army of prostitutes or seduced women, in whose
arms they cooled their passions and spent the vigor of their youth. But with such a past the
married man does not at the same time leave behind him its influence on his inclinations. The
habit of having a feminine being at his disposal for every rising appetite, and the desire
for change inordinately indulged for years, generally make themselves felt again as soon as
the honeymoon is over. Marriage will not make a morally corrupt man all at once a good man
and a model husband.

4. THE INJUSTICE OF MAN.--Now, although many men are in a certain sense "not worthy to unloose
the latchet of the shoes" of the commonest woman, much less to "unfasten her girdle," yet they
make the most extravagant demands on the feminine sex. Even the greatest debauchee, who has
spent his vigor in the arms of a hundred courtesans, will cry out fraud and treachery if he
does not receive his newly married bride as an untouched virgin. Even the most dissolute husband
will look on his wife as deserving of death if his daily infidelity is only once reciprocated.

5. UNJUST DEMANDS.--The greater the injustice a husband does to his wife, the less he is willing
to submit to from her; the oftener he becomes unfaithful to her, the stricter he is in demanding
faithfulness from her. We see that despotism nowhere denies its own nature: the more a despot
deceives and abuses his people, the more submissiveness and faithfulness he demands of them.

6. SUFFERING WOMEN.--Who can be astonished at the many unhappy marriages, if he knows how unworthy
most men are of their wives? Their virtues they rarely can appreciate, and their vices they
generally call out by their own. Thousands of women suffer from the results of a mode of life
of which they, having remained pure in their thought, have no conception whatever; and many
an unsuspecting wife nurses her husband with tenderest care in sicknesses which are nothing
more than the consequences of his amours with other women.

7. AN INHUMAN CRIMINAL.--When at last, after long years of delusion and endurance, the scales
drop from the eyes of the wife, and revenge or despair drives her into a hostile position towards
her lord and master, she is an inhuman criminal, and the hue and cry against the fickleness
of women and the falsity of their nature is endless. Oh, the injustice of society and the injustice
of cruel man. Is there no relief for helpless women that are bound by the ties of marriage
to men who are nothing but rotten corruption?

8. VULGAR DESIRE.--The habit of regarding the end and aim of woman only from the most vulgar
side--not to respect in her the noble human being, but to see in her only the instrument of
sensual desire--is carried so far among men that they will allow it to force into the background
considerations among themselves, which they otherwise pretend to rank very high.

9. THE ONLY REMEDY.--But when the feeling of women has once been driven to indignation with
respect to the position which they occupy, it is to be hoped that they will compel men to be
pure before marriage, and they will remain loyal after marriage.

10. WORSE THAN SAVAGES.--With all our civilization we are put to shame even by the savages.
The savages know of no fastidiousness of the sexual instinct and of no brothels. We are, indeed,
likewise savages, but in quite a different sense. Proof of this is especially furnished by
our youth. But that our students, and young men in general, usually pass through the school
of corruption and drag the filth of the road which they have traversed before marriage along
with them throughout life, is not their fault so much as the fault of prejudices and of our
political and social conditions that prohibits a proper education, and the placing of the right
kind of literature on these subjects into the hands of young people.

11. REASON AND REMEDY.--Keep the youth pure by a thorough system of plain unrestricted training.
The seeds of immorality are sown in youth, and the secret vice eats out their young manhood
often before the age of puberty. They develop a bad character as they grow older. Young girls
are ruined, and licentiousness and prostitution flourish. Keep the boys pure and the harlot
would soon lose her vocation. Elevate the morals of the boys, and you will have pure men and
moral husbands.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROAD TO SHAME.

1. INSULT TO MOTHER OR SISTER.--Young men, it can never tinder any circumstances be right for
you to do to a woman that, which, if another man did to your mother or sister, you could never
forgive! The very thought is revolting. Let us suppose a man guilty of this shameful sin, and
I apprehend that each of us would feel ready to shoot the villain. We are not justifying the
shooting, but appealing to your instinctive sense of right, in order to show the enormity of
this fearful crime, and to fasten strong conviction in your mind against this sin.

2. A RUINED SISTER.--What would you think of a man, no matter what his wealth, culture, or
gentlemanly bearing, who should lay himself out for the seduction and shame of your beloved
sister? Her very name now reminds you of the purest affection: think of her, if you can bear
it, ruined in character, and soon to become an unhappy mother. To whom can you introduce her?
What can you say concerning her? How can her own brothers and sisters associate with her? and,
mark! all this personal and relative misery caused by this genteel villain's degrading passion.

3. YOUNG MAN LOST.--Another terrible result of this sin is the practical overthrow of natural
affection which it effects. A young man comes from his father's house to Chicago. Either through
his own lust or through the corrupt companions that he finds in the house of business where
he resides, he becomes the companion of lewd women. The immediate result is a bad conscience,
a sense of shame, and a breach in the affections of home. Letters are less frequent, careless,
and brief. He cannot manifest true love now. He begins to shrink from his sister and mother,
and well he may.

4. THE HARLOT'S INFLUENCE.--He has spent the strength of his affection and love for home. In
their stead the wretched harlot has filled him with unholy lust. His brain and heart refuse
to yield him the love of the son and brother. His hand can not write as aforetime, or at best,
his expressions become a hypocritical pretence. Fallen into the degradation of the fornicator,
he has changed a mother's love and sister's affection for the cursed fellowship of the woman
"whose house is the way to hell." (Prov. VII. 27.)

5. THE WAY OF DEATH.--Observe, that directly the law of God is broken, and wherever promiscuous
intercourse between the sexes takes place, gonorrhoea, syphilis, and every other form of venereal
disease is seen in hideous variety. It is only true to say that thousands of both sexes are
slain annually by these horrible diseases. What must be the moral enormity of a sin, which,
when committed, produces in vast numbers of cases such frightful physical and moral destruction
as that which is here portrayed?

6. A HARLOT'S WOES.--Would to God that something might be done to rescue fallen women from
their low estate. We speak of them as "fallen women". Fallen, indeed, they are, but surely
not more deserving of the application of that term than the "fallen men" who are their partners
and paramours. It is easy to use the words "a fallen woman," but who can apprehend all that
is involved in the expression, seeing that every purpose for which God created woman is prostituted
and destroyed? She is now neither maiden, wife, nor mother; the sweet names of sister and betrothed
can have no legitimate application in her case.

7. THE PENALTIES FOR LOST VIRTUE.--Can the harlot be welcomed where either children, brothers,
sisters, wife, or husband are found? Surely, no. Home is a sphere alien to the harlot's estate.
See such an one wherever you may--she is a fallen outcast from woman's high estate. Her existence--for
she does not live--now culminates in one dread issue, viz., prostitution. She sleeps, but awakes
a harlot. She rises in the late morning hours, but her object is prostitution; she washes,
dresses, and braids her hair, but it is with one foul purpose before her. To this end she eats,
drinks, and is clothed. To this end her house is hidden and the blinds are drawn.

8. LOST FOREVER.--To this end she applies the unnatural cosmetique, and covers herself with
sweet perfumes, which vainly try to hide her disease and shame. To this end she decks herself
with dashing finery and tawdry trappings, and with bold, unwomanly mien essays the streets
of the great city. To this end she is loud and coarse and impudent. To this end she is the
prostituted "lady," with simpering words, and smiles, and glamour of refined deceit. To this
end an angel face, a devil in disguise. There is one foul and ghastly purpose towards which
all her energies now tend. So low has she fallen, so lost is she to all the design of woman,
that she exists for one foul purpose only, viz., to excite, stimulate, and gratify the lusts
of degraded, ungodly men. Verily, the word "prostitute" has an awful meaning. What plummet
can sound the depths of a woman's fall who has become a harlot?

9. SOUND THE ALARM.--Remember, young man, you can never rise above the degradation of the companionship
of lewd women. Your virtue once lost is lost forever. Remember, young woman, your wealth or
riches is your good name and good character--you have nothing else. Give a man your virtue
and he will forsake you, and you will be forsaken by all the world. Remember that purity of
purpose brings nobility of character, and an honorable life is the joy and security of mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURSE OF MANHOOD.

1. MORAL LEPERS.--We cannot but denounce, in the strongest terms, the profligacy of many married
men. Not content with the moderation permitted in the divine appointed relationship of marriage,
they become adulterers, in order to gratify their accursed lust. The man in them is trodden
down by the sensual beast which reigns supreme. These are the moral outlaws that make light
of this scandalous social iniquity, and by their damnable example encourage young men to sin.

2. A SAD CONDITION.--It is constantly affirmed by prostitutes, that amongst married men are
found their chief supporters. Evidence from such a quarter must be received with considerable
caution. Nevertheless, we believe that there is much truth in this statement. Here, again,
we lay the ax to the root of the tree; the married man who dares affirm that there is a particle
of physical necessity for this sin, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Whether these men
be princes, peers, legislators, professional men, mechanics, or workmen, they are moral pests,
a scandal to the social state, and a curse to the nation.

3. EXCESSES.--Many married men exhaust themselves by these excesses; they become irritable,
liable to cold, to rheumatic affections, and nervous depression. They find themselves weary
when they rise in the morning. Unfitted for close application to business, they become dilatory
and careless, often lapsing into entire lack of energy, and not seldom into the love of intoxicating
stimulants. Numbers of husbands and wives entering upon these experiences lose the charm of
health, the cheerfulness of life and converse. Home duties become irksome to the wife; the
brightness, vivacity, and bloom natural to her earlier years, decline; she is spoken of as
highly nervous, poorly, and weak, when the whole truth is that she is suffering from physical
exhaustion which she cannot bear. Her features become angular, her hair prematurely gray, she
rapidly settles down into the nervous invalid, constantly needing medical aid, and, if possible,
change of air.

4. IGNORANCE.--These conditions are brought about in many cases through ignorance on the part
of those who are married. Multitudes of men have neither read, heard, nor known the truth of
this question. We sympathize with our fellow-men in this, that we have been left in practical
ignorance concerning the exceeding value and legitimate uses of these functions of our being.
Some know, that, had they known these things in the early days of their married life, it would
have proved to them knowledge of exceeding value. If this counsel is followed, thousands of
homes will scarcely know the need of the physician's presence.

5. ANIMAL PASSION.--Commonsense teaches that children who are begotten in the heat of animal
passion, are likely to be licentious when they grow up. Many parents through excesses of eating
and drinking, become inflamed with wine and strong drink. They are sensualists, and consequently,
morally diseased. Now, if in such conditions men beget their children, who can affect surprise
if they develop licentious tendencies? Are not such parents largely to blame? Are they not
criminals in a high degree? Have they not fouled their own nest, and transmitted to their children
predisposition to moral evil?

6. FAST YOUNG MEN.--Many of our "fast young men" have been thus corrupted, even as the children
of the intemperate are proved to have been. Certainly no one can deny that many of our "well-bred"
young men are little better than "high-class dogs" so lawless are they, and ready for the arena
of licentiousness.

7. THE PURE-MINDED WIFE.--Happily, as tens of thousands of husbands can testify, the pure-minded
wife and mother is not carried away, as men are liable to be, with the force of animal passion.
Were it not so, the tendencies to licentiousness in many sons would be stronger than they are.
In the vast majority of cases suggestion is never made except by the husband, and it is a matter
of deepest gratitude and consideration, that the true wife may become a real helpmeet in restraining
this desire in the husband.

8. YOUNG WIFE AND CHILDREN.--We often hear it stated that a young wife has her children quickly.
This cannot happen to the majority of women without injury to health and jeopardy to life.
The law which rendered it imperative for the land to lie fallow in order to rest and gain renewed
strength, is only another illustration of the unity which pervades physical conditions everywhere.
It should be known that if a mother nurses her own babe, and the child is not weaned until
it is nine or ten months old, the mother, except in rare cases, will not become enceinte again,
though cohabitation with the husband takes place.

9. SELFISH AND UNNATURAL CONDUCT.--It is natural and rational that a mother should feed her
own children; in the selfish and unnatural conduct of many mothers, who, to avoid the self-denial
and patience which are required, hand the little one over to the wet-nurse, or to be brought
up by hand, is found in many cases the cause and reason of the unnatural haste of child-bearing.
Mothers need to be taught that the laws of nature cannot be broken without penalty. For every
woman whose health has been weakened through nursing her child, a hundred have lost strength
and health through marital excesses. The haste of having children is the costly penalty which
women pay for shirking the mother's duty to the child.

10. LAW OF GOD.--So graciously has the law of God been arranged in regard to the mother's strength,
that, if it be obeyed, there will be, as a rule, an interval of at least from eighteen months
to two years between the birth of one child and that of another. Every married man should abstain
during certain natural seasons. In this periodical recurrance God has instituted to every husband
the law of restraint, and insisted upon self-control.

11. TO YOUNG PEOPLE WHO ARE MARRIED.--Be exceedingly careful of license and excess in your
intercourse with one another. Do not needlessly expose, by undress, the body. Let not the purity
of love degenerate into unholy lust! See to it that you walk according to the divine Word.
"Dwelling together as being heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered."

12. LOST POWERS.--Many young men after their union showed a marked difference. They lost much
of their natural vivacity, energy, and strength of voice. Their powers of application, as business
men, students, and ministers, had declined, as also their enterprise, fervor, and kindliness.
They had become irritable, dull, pale, and complaining. Many cases of rheumatic fever have
been induced through impoverishment, caused by excesses on the part of young married men.

13. MIDDLE AGE.--After middle age the sap of a man's life declines in quantity. A man who intends
close application to the ministry, to scientific or literary pursuits, where great demands
are made upon the brain, must restrain this passion. The supplies for the brain and nervous
system are absorbed, and the seed diverted through sexual excesses in the marriage relationship,
by fornication, or by any other form of immorality, the man's power must decline: that to this
very cause may be attributed the failure and breakdown of so many men of middle age.

14. INTOXICATING DRINKS.--By all means avoid intoxicating drinks. Immorality and alcoholic
stimulants, as we have shown, are intimately related to one another. Wine and strong drink
inflame the blood, and heat the passions. Attacking the brain, they warp the judgment, and
weaken the power of restraint. Avoid what is called good living: it is madness to allow the
pleasures of the table to corrupt and corrode the human body. We are not designed for gourmands,
much less for educated pigs. Cold water bathing, water as a beverage, simple and wholesome
food, regularity of sleep, plenty of exercise; games such as cricket, football, tennis, boating,
or bicycling, are among the best possible preventives against lust and animal passion.

15. BEWARE OF IDLENESS.--Indolent leisure means an unoccupied mind. When young men lounge along
the streets, in this condition they become an easy prey to the sisterhood of shame and death.
Bear in mind that evil thoughts precede evil actions. The hand of the worst thief will not
steal until the thief within operates upon the hand without. The members of the body which
are capable of becoming instruments of sin, are not involuntary actors. Lustful desires must
proceed from brain and heart, ere the fire that consumes burns in the member.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PRIVATE TALK TO YOUNG MEN.

1.

2. In like manner the organ concerning the uses of which I am to speak, has been, and continues
to be, made one of the chief instruments of man's immorality, shame, disease, and death. How
important to know what the legitimate uses of this member of the body are, and how great the
dignity conferred upon us in the possession of this gift. On the human side this gift may be
truly said to bring men nearer to the high and solemn relationship of the Creator than any
other which they possess.

3. I first deal with the destructive sin of self-abuse. There can be little doubt that vast
numbers of boys are guilty of this practice. In many cases the degrading habit has been taught
by others, e.g., by elder boys at school, where association largely results in mutual corruption.
With others, the means of sensual gratification is found out by personal action; whilst in
other cases fallen and depraved men have not hesitated to debauch the minds of mere children
by teaching them this debasing practice.

4. Thousands of youths and young men have only to use the looking-glass to see the portrait
of one guilty of this loathsome sin. The effects are plainly discernible in the boy's appearance.
The face and hands become pale and bloodless. The eye is destitute of its natural fire and
lustre. The flesh is soft and flabby, the muscles limp and lacking healthy firmness. In cases
where the habit has become confirmed, and where the system has been drained of this vital force,
it is seen in positive ugliness, in a pale and cadaverous appearance, slovenly gait, slouching
walk, and an impaired memory.

5. It is obvious that if the most vital physical force of a boy's life is being spent through
this degrading habit--a habit, be it observed, of rapid growth, great strength, and difficult
to break--he must develop badly. In thousands of cases the result is seen in a low stature,
contracted chest, weak lungs, and liability to sore throat. Tendency to cold, indigestion,
depression, drowsiness, and idleness, are results distinctly traceable to this deadly practice.
Pallor of countenance, nervous and rheumatic affections, loss of memory, epilepsy, paralysis,
and insanity find their principal predisposing cause in the same shameful waste of life. The
want of moral force and strength of mind often observable in youths and young men is largely
induced by this destructive and deadly sin.

6. Large numbers of youths pass from an exhausted boyhood into the weakness, intermittent fevers,
and consumption, which are said to carry off so many. If the deaths were attributed primarily
to loss of strength occasioned by self-pollution, it would be much nearer the truth. It is
monstrous to suppose that a boy who comes from healthy parents should decline and die. Without
a shade of doubt the chief cause of decay and death amongst youths and young men, is to be
traced to this baneful habit.

7. It is a well-known fact that any man who desires to excel and retain his excellence as an
accurate shot, an oarsman, a pedestrian, a pugilist, a first-class cricketer, bicyclist, student,
artist, or literary man, must abstain from self-pollution and fornication. Thousands of school
boys and students lose their positions in the class, and are plucked at the time of their examination
by reason of failure of memory, through lack of nerve and vital force, caused mainly by draining
the physical frame of the seed which is the vigor of the life.

8. It is only true to say that thousands of young men in the early stages of a licentious career
would rather lose a right hand than have their mothers or sisters know what manner of men they
are. From the side of the mothers and sisters it may also be affirmed that, were they aware
of the real character of those brothers and sons, they would wish that they had never been born.

9. Let it be remembered that sexual desire is not in itself dishonorable or sinful, any more
than hunger, thirst, or any other lawful and natural desire is. It is the gratification by
unlawful means of this appetite which renders it so corrupting and iniquitous.

10. Leisure means the opportunity to commit sin. Unclean pictures are sought after and feasted
upon, paragraphs relating to cases of divorce and seduction are eagerly read, papers and books
of an immoral character and tendency greedily devoured, low and disgusting conversation indulged
in and repeated.

11. The practical and manly counsel to every youth and young man is, entire abstinence from
indulgence of the sexual faculty until such time as the marriage relationship is entered upon.
Neither is there, nor can there be, any exception to this rule.

12.

13. Be a young man of principle, honor, and preserve your powers. How can you look an innocent
girl in the face when you are degrading your manhood with the vilest practice? Keep your mind
and life pure and nobility will be your crown.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMEDIES FOR THE SOCIAL EVIL.

1. MAN RESPONSIBLE.--Every great social reform must begin with the male sex. They must either
lead, or give it its support. Prostitution is a sin wholly of their own making. All the misery,
all the lust, as well as all the blighting consequences, are chargeable wholly to the uncontrolled
sexual passion of the male. To reform sinful women, reform the men. Teach them that the physiological
truth means permanent moral, physical and mental benefit, while seductive indulgence blights
and ruins.

2. CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.--A man or woman cannot long live an impure life without sooner or later
contracting disease which brings to every sufferer not only moral degradation, but often serious
and vital injuries and many times death itself becomes the only relief.

3. SHOULD IT BE REGULATED BY LAW?--Dr. G.J. Ziegler, of Philadelphia, in several medical articles
says that the act of sexual connection should be made in itself the solemnization of marriage,
and that when any such single act can be proven against an unmarried man, by an unmarried woman,
the latter be at once invested with all the legal privileges of a wife. By bestowing this power
on women very few men would risk the dangers of the society of a dissolute and scheming woman
who might exercise the right to force him to a marriage and ruin his reputation and life. The
strongest objection of this would be that it would increase the temptation to destroy the purity
of married women, for they could be approached without danger of being forced into another
marriage. But this objection could easily be harmonized with a good system of well regulated
laws. Many means have been tried to mitigate the social evils, but with little encouragement.
In the city of Paris a system of registration has been inaugurated and houses of prostitution
are under the supervision of the police, yet prostitution has not been in any degree diminished.
Similar methods have been tried in other European towns, but without satisfactory results.

4. MORAL INFLUENCE.--Let it be an imperative to every clergyman, to every educator, to every
statesman and to every philanthropist, to every father and to every mother, to impart that
moral influence which may guide and direct the youth of the land into the natural channels
of morality, chastity and health. Then, and not till then, shall we see righteous laws and
rightly enforced for the mitigation and extermination of the modern house of prostitution.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELFISH SLAVES OF DOSES OF DISEASE AND DEATH.

1. MOST DEVILISH INTOXICATION.--What is the most devilish, subtle alluring, unconquerable,
hopeless and deadly form of intoxication, with which science struggles and to which it often
succumbs; which eludes the restrictive grasp of legislation; lurks behind lace curtains, hides
in luxurious boudoirs, haunts the solitude of the study, and with waxen face, furtive eyes
and palsied step totters to the secret recesses of its self-indulgence? It is the drunkenness
of drugs, and woe be unto him that crosseth the threshold of its dream-curtained portal, for
though gifted with the strength of Samson, the courage of Richard and the genius of Archimedes,
he shall never return, and of him it is written that forever he leaves hope behind.

2. THE MATERIAL SATAN.--The material Satan in this sensuous syndicate of soul and body-destroying
drugs is opium, and next in order of hellish potency come cocaine and chloral.

3. GUM OPIUM.--Gum opium, from which the sulphate of morphine is made, is the dried juice of
the poppy, and is obtained principally in the orient. Taken in moderate doses it acts specially
upon the nervous system, deadens sensibility, and the mind becomes inactive. When used habitually
and excessively it becomes a tonic, which stimulates the whole nervous system, producing intense
mental exaltation and delusive visions. When the effects wear off, proportionate lassitude
follows, which begets an insatiate and insane craving for the drug. Under the repeated strain
of the continually increasing doses, which have to be taken to renew the desired effect, the
nervous system finally becomes exhausted, and mind and body are utterly and hopelessly wrecked.

4. COCAINE.--Cocaine is extracted from the leaves of the Peruvian cocoa tree, and exerts a
decided influence upon the nervous system, somewhat akin to that of coffee. It increases the
heart action and is said to be such an exhilarant that the natives of the Andes are enabled
to make extra-ordinary forced marches by chewing the leaves containing it. Its after effects
are more depressing even than those of opium, and insanity more frequently results from its use.

5. CHLORAL.--The name which is derived from the first two syllables of chlorine and alcohol,
is made by passing dry chlorine gas in a continuous stream through absolute alcohol for six
or eight weeks. It is a hypnotic or sleep-producing drug, and in moderate doses acts on the
caliber of the blood vessels of the brain, producing a soothing effect, especially in cases
of passive congestion. Some patent medicines contain chloral, bromide and hyoseamus, and they
have a large sale, being bought by persons of wealth, who do not know what they are composed
of and recklessly take them for the effect they produce.

6. VICTIMS RAPIDLY INCREASING.--"From my experience," said a leading and conservative druggist,
"I infer that the number of what are termed opium, cocaine, and chloral "fiends" is rapidly
increasing, and is greater by two or three hundred percent than a year ago, with twice as many
women as men represented. I should say that one person out of every fifty is a victim of this
frightful habit, which claims its doomed votaries from the extremes of social life, those who
have the most and the least to live for, the upper classes and the cyprian, professional men
of the finest intelligence, fifty per cent. of whom are doctors and walk into the pit with
eyes wide open. And lawyers and other professional men must be added to this fated vice."

7. DESTROYS THE MORAL FIBER.--"It is a habit which utterly destroys the moral fiber of its
slaves, and makes unmitigated liars and thieves and forgers of them, and even murder might
be added to the list of crimes, were no other road left open to the gratification of its insatiate
and insane appetite. I do not know of a single case in which it has been mastered, but I do
know of many where the end has been unspeakable misery, disgrace, suffering, insanity and death."

8. SHAMEFUL DEATH.--To particularize further would be profitless so far as the beginners are
concerned, but would to heaven that those not within the shadow of this shameful death would
take warning from those who are. There are no social or periodical drunkards in this sort of
intoxication. The vice is not only solitary, unsocial and utterly selfish, but incessant and
increasing in its demands.

9. APPETITE STRONGER THAN FOR LIQUOR.--This appetite is far stronger and more uncontrollable
than that for liquor, and we can spot its victim as readily as though he were an ordinary bummer.
He has a pallid complexion, a shifting, shuffling manner and can't look you in the face. If
you manage to catch his eye for an instant you will observe that its pupil is contracted to
an almost invisible point. It is no exaggeration to say that he would barter his very soul
for that which indulgence has made him too poor to purchase, and where artifice fails he will
grovel in abject agony of supplication for a few grains. At the same time he resorts to all
kinds of miserable and transparent shifts, to conceal his degradation. He never buys for himself,
but always for some fictitious person, and often resorts to purchasing from distant points.

10. OPIUM SMOKING.--"Opium smoking," said another representative druggist, "is almost entirely
confined to the Chinese and they seem to thrive on it. Very few others hit the pipe that we
know of."

11. MALT AND ALCOHOLIC DRUNKENNESS.--Alcoholic stimulants have a record of woe second to nothing.
Its victims are annually marching to drunkards' graves by the thousands. Drunkards may be divided
into three classes: First, the accidental or social drunkard; second, the periodical or spasmodic
drunkard; and third, the sot.

12. THE ACCIDENTAL OR SOCIAL DRUNKARD is yet on safe ground. He has not acquired the dangerous
craving for liquor. It is only on special occasions that he yields to excessive indulgence;
sometimes in meeting a friend, or at some political blow-out. On extreme occasions he will
indulge until he becomes a helpless victim, and usually as he grows older occasions will increase,
and step by step he will be lead nearer to the precipice of ruin.

13. THE PERIODICAL OR SPASMODIC DRUNKARD, with whom it is always the unexpected which occurs,
and who at intervals exacts from his accumulated capital the usury of as prolonged a spree
as his nerves and stomach will stand. Science is inclined to charitably label this specimen
of man a sort of a physiologic puzzle, to be as much pitied as blamed. Given the benefit of
every doubt, when he starts off on one of his hilarious tangents, he becomes a howling nuisance;
if he has a family, keeps them continually on the ragged edge of apprehension, and is unanimously
pronounced a "holy terror" by his friends. His life and future is an uncertainty. He is unreliable
and cannot be long trusted. Total reformation is the only hope, but it rarely is accomplished.

14. THE SOT.--A blunt term that needs no defining, for even the children comprehend the hopeless
degradation it implies. Laws to restrain and punish him are framed; societies to protect and
reform him are organized, and mostly in vain. He is prone in life's very gutter; bloated, reeking
and polluted with the doggery's slops and filth. He can fall but a few feet lower, and not
until he stumbles into an unmarked, unhonored grave, where kind mother earth and the merciful
mantle of oblivion will cover and conceal the awful wreck he made of God's own image. To the
casual observer, the large majority of the community, these three phases, at whose vagaries
many laugh, and over whose consequences millions mourn, comprehend intoxication and its results,
from the filling of the cup to its shattering fall from the nerveless hand, and this is the
end of the matter. Would to God that it were! for at that it would be bad enough. But it is
not, for wife, children and friends must suffer and drink the cup of trouble and sorrow to
its dregs.

       *       *       *       *       *

OBJECT LESSONS OF THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL AND CIGARETTE SMOKING.

By Prof. George Henkle, who personally made the post-mortem examinations and drew the following
illustrations from the diseased organs just as they appeared when first taken from the bodies
of the unfortunate victims.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DESTRUCTIVE EFFECTS OF CIGARETTE SMOKING.

Cigarettes have been analyzed, and the most physicians and chemists were surprised to find
how much opium is put into them. A tobacconist himself says that "the extent to which drugs
are used in cigarettes is appalling." "Havana flavoring" for this same purpose is sold everywhere
by the thousand barrels. This flavoring is made from the tonka-bean, which contains a deadly
poison. The wrappers, warranted to be rice paper, are sometimes made of common paper, and sometimes
of the filthy scrapings of ragpickers bleached white with arsenic. What a thing for human lungs.

The habit burns up good health, good resolutions, good manners, good memories, good faculties,
and often honesty and truthfulness as well.

Cases of epilepsy, insanity and death are frequently reported as the result of smoking cigarettes,
while such physicians as Dr. Lewis Sayre, Dr. Hammond, and Sir Morell Mackenzie of England,
name heart trouble, blindness, cancer and other diseases as occasioned by it.

Leading physicians of America unanimously condemn cigarette smoking as "one of the vilest and
most destructive evils that ever befell the youth of any country," declaring that "its direct
tendency is a deterioration of the race."

Look at the pale, wilted complexion of a boy who indulges to excessive cigarette smoking. It
takes no physician to diagnose his case, and death will surely mark for his own every boy and
young man who will follow up the habit. It is no longer a matter of guess. It is a scientific
fact which the microscope in every case verifies.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Dangerous Vices.

Few persons are aware of the extent to which masturbation or self-pollution is practiced by
the young of both sexes in civilized society.

SYMPTOMS.

The hollow, sunken eye, the blanched cheek, the withered hands, and emaciated frame, and the
listless life, have other sources than the ordinary illnesses of all large communities.

When a child, after having given proofs of memory and intelligence, experiences daily more
and more difficulty in retaining and understanding what is taught him, it is not only from
unwillingness and idleness, as is commonly supposed, but from a disease eating out life itself,
brought on by a self-abuse of the private organs. Besides the slow and progressive derangement
of his or her health, the diminished energy of application, the languid movement, the stooping
gait, the desertion of social games, the solitary walk, late rising, livid and sunken eye,
and many other symptoms, will fix the attention of every intelligent and competent guardian
of youth that something is wrong.

MARRIED PEOPLE.

Nor are many persons sufficiently aware of the ruinous extent to which the amative propensity
is indulged by married persons. The matrimonial ceremony does, indeed, sanctify the act of
sexual intercourse, but it can by no means atone for nor obviate the consequences of its abuse.
Excessive indulgence in the married relation is, perhaps, as much owing to the force of habit,
as to the force of the sexual appetite.

EXTREME YOUTH.

More lamentable still is the effect of inordinate sexual excitement of the young and unmarried.
It is not very uncommon to find a confirmed onanist, or, rather, masturbator, who has not yet
arrived at the period of puberty. Many cases are related in which young boys and girls, from
eight to ten years of age, were taught the method of self-pollution by their older playmates,
and had made serious encroachments on the fund of constitutional vitality even before any considerable
degree of sexual appetite was developed.

FORCE OF HABIT.

Here, again, the fault was not in the power of passion, but in the force of habit. Parents
and guardians of youth can not be too mindful of the character and habits of those with whom
they allow young persons and children under their charge to associate intimately, and especially
careful should they be with whom they allow them to sleep.

SIN OF IGNORANCE.

It is customary to designate self-pollution as among the "vices." I think misfortune is the
more appropriate term. It is true, that in the physiological sense, it is one of the very worst
"transgressions of the law." But in the moral sense it is generally the sin of ignorance in
the commencement, and in the end the passive submission to a morbid and almost resistless impulse.

QUACKS.

The time has come when the rising generation must be thoroughly instructed in this matter.
That quack specific "ignorance" has been experimented with quite too long already. The true
method of insuring all persons, young or old, against the abuses of any part, organ, function,
or faculty of the wondrous machinery of life, is to teach them its use. "Train a child in the
way it should go" or be sure it will, amid the ten thousand surrounding temptations, find out
a way in which it should not go. Keeping a child in ignorant innocence is, I aver, no part
of the "training" which has been taught by a wiser than Solomon. Boys and girls do know, will
know, and must know, that between them are important anatomical differences and interesting
physiological relations. Teach them, I repeat, their use, or expect their abuse. Hardly a young
person in the world would ever become addicted to self-pollution if he or she understood clearly
the consequences; if he or she knew at the outset that the practice was directly destroying
the bodily stamina, vitiating the moral tone, and enfeebling the intellect. No one would pursue
the disgusting habit if he or she was fully aware that it was blasting all prospects of health
and happiness in the approaching period of manhood and womanhood.

GENERAL SYMPTOMS OF THE SECRET HABIT.

The effects of either self-pollution or excessive sexual indulgence, appear in many forms.
It would seem as if God had written an instinctive law of remonstrance, in the innate moral
sense, against this filthy vice.

All who give themselves up to the excesses of this debasing indulgence, carry about with them,
continually, a consciousness of their defilement, and cherish a secret suspicion that others
look upon them as debased beings. They feel none of that manly confidence and gallant spirit,
and chaste delight in the presence of virtuous females, which stimulate young men to pursue
the course of ennobling refinement, and mature them for the social relations and enjoyments
of life.

This shamefacedness, or unhappy quailing of the countenance, on meeting the look of others,
often follows them through life, in some instances even after they have entirely abandoned
the habit, and became married men and respectable members of society.

In some cases, the only complaint the patient will make on consulting you, is that he is suffering
under a kind of continued fever. He will probably present a hot, dry skin, with something of
a hectic appearance. Though all the ordinary means of arresting such symptoms have been tried,
he is none the better.

The sleep seems to be irregular and unrefreshing--restlessness during the early part of the
night, and in the advanced stages of the disease, profuse sweats before morning. There is also
frequent starting in the sleep, from disturbing dreams. The characteristic feature is, that
your patient almost always dreams of sexual intercourse. This is one of the earliest, as well
as most constant symptoms. When it occurs most frequently, it is apt to be accompanied with
pain. A gleety discharge from the urethra may also be frequently discovered, especially if
the patient examine when at stool or after urinating. Other common symptoms are nervous headache,
giddiness, ringing in the ears, and a dull pain in the back part of the head. It is frequently
the case that the patient suffers a stiffness in the neck, darting pains in the forehead, and
also weak eyes are among the common symptoms.

One very frequent, and perhaps early symptom (especially in young females) is solitariness--a
disposition to seclude themselves from society. Although they may be tolerably cheerful when
in company, they prefer rather to be alone.

The countenance has often a gloomy and worn-down expression. The patient's friends frequently
notice a great change. Large livid spots under the eyes is a common feature. Sudden flashes
of heat may be noticed passing over the patient's face. He is liable also to palpitations.
The pulse is very variable, generally too slow. Extreme emaciation, without any other assignable
cause for it, may be set down as another very common symptom.

If the evil has gone on for several years, there will be a general unhealthy appearance, of
a character so marked as to enable an experienced observer at once to detect the cause. In
the case of onanists especially there is a peculiar rank odor emitted from the body, by which
they may be readily distinguished. One striking peculiarity of all these patients is, that
they cannot look a man in the face! Cowardice is constitutional with them.

HOME TREATMENT OF THE SECRET HABIT.

1. The first condition of recovery is a prompt and permanent abandonment of the ruinous habit.
Without a faithful adherence to this prohibitory law on the part of the patient all medication
on the part of the physician will assuredly fail. The patient must plainly understand that
future prospects, character, health, and life itself, depend on an unfaltering resistance to
the morbid solicitation; with the assurance, however, that a due perseverance will eventually
render, what now seems like a resistless and overwhelming propensity, not only controllable
but perfectly loathsome and undesirable.

2. Keep the mind employed by interesting the patient in the various topics of the day, and
social features of the community.

3. Plenty of bodily out of door exercise, hoeing in the garden, walking, or working on the
farm; of course not too heavy work must be indulged in.

4. If the patient is weak and very much emaciated, cod liver oil is an excellent remedy.

5. DIET. The patient should live principally on brown bread, oat meal, graham crackers, wheat
meal, cracked or boiled wheat, or hominy, and food of that character. No meats should be indulged
in whatever; milk diet if used by the patient is an excellent remedy. Plenty of fruit should
be indulged in; dried toast and baked apples make an excellent supper. The patient should eat
early in the evening, never late at night.

6. Avoid all tea, coffee, or alcoholic stimulants of any kind.

7. "Early to bed and early to rise," should be the motto of every victim of this vice. A patient
should take a cold bath every morning after rising. A cold water injection in moderate quantities
before retiring has cured many patients.

8. If the above remedies are not sufficient, a family physician should be consulted.

9. Never let children sleep together, if possible, to avoid it. Discourage the children of
neighbors and friends from sleeping with your children.

10. Have your children rise early. It is the lying in bed in the morning that plays the mischief.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS.

Involuntary emissions of semen during amorous dreams at night is not at all uncommon among
healthy men. When this occurs from one to three or four times a month, no anxiety or concern
need be felt.

When the emissions take place without dreams, manifested only by stained spots in the morning
on the linen, or take place at stool and are entirely beyond control, then the patient should
at once seek for remedies or consult a competent physician. When blood stains are produced,
then medical aid must be sought at once.

HOME TREATMENT FOR NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS.

Sleep in a hard bed, and rise early and take a sponge bath in cold water every morning. Eat
light suppers and refrain from eating late in the evening. Empty the bladder thoroughly before
retiring, bathe the spine and hips with a sponge dipped in cold water.

Never sleep lying on the back.

Avoid all highly seasoned food and read good books, and keep the mind well employed. Take regular
and vigorous outdoor exercise every day.

Avoid all coffee, tea, wine, beer and all alcoholic liquors. Don't use tobacco, and keep the
bowels free.

PRESCRIPTION.--Ask your druggist to put you up a good Iron Tonic and take it regularly according
to his directions.

BEWARE OF ADVERTISING QUACKS.

Beware of these advertising schemes that advertise a speedy cure for "Loss of Youth," "Lost
Vitality," "A Cure for Impotency," "Renewing of Old Age," etc. Do not allow these circulating
pamphlets and circulars to concern you the least. If you have a few Nocturnal Emissions, remember
it is only a mark of vitality and health, and not a sign of a deathly disease, as many of these
advertising quacks would lead you to believe.

Use your private organs only for what your Creator intended they should be used, and there
will be no occasion for you to be frightened by the deception of quacks.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOST MANHOOD RESTORED.

1. RESOLUTE DESISTENCE.--The first step towards the restoration of lost manhood is a resolute
desistence from these terrible sins. Each time the temptation is overcome, the power to resist
becomes stronger, and the fierce fire declines. Each time the sin is committed, its hateful
power strengthens, and the fire of lust is increased. Remember, that you cannot commit these
sins, and maintain health and strength.

2. AVOID BEING ALONE.--Avoid being alone when the temptation comes upon you to commit self-abuse.
Change your thoughts at once; "keep the heart diligently, for out of it are the issues of life."

3. AVOID EVIL COMPANIONS.--Avoid evil companions, lewd conversation, bad pictures, corrupt
and vicious novels, books, and papers. Abstain from all intoxicating drinks. These inflame
the blood, excite the passions, and stimulate sensuality; weakening the power of the brain,
they always impair the power of self-restraint. Smoking is very undesirable. Keep away from
the moral pesthouses. Remember that these houses are the great resort of fallen and depraved
men and women. The music, singing, and dancing are simply a blind to cover the intemperance
and lust, which hold high carnival in these guilded hells. This, be it remembered, is equally
true of the great majority of the theatres.

4. AVOID STRONG TEA, OR COFFEE.--Take freely of cocoa, milk, and bread and milk, or oatmeal
porridge. Meats, such as beef and mutton, use moderately. We would strongly recommend to young
men of full habit, vegetarian diet. Fruits in their season, partake liberally; also fresh vegetables.
Brown bread and toast, as also rice, and similar puddings, are always suitable. Avoid rich
pastry and new bread.

5. THREE MEALS A DAY ARE ABUNDANT.--Avoid suppers, and be careful, if troubled with nightly
emissions, not to take any liquid, not even water, after seven o'clock in the evening, at latest.
This will diminish the secretions of the body, when asleep, and the consequent emissions, which
in the early hours of the morning usually follow the taking of any kind of drink. Do not be
anxious or troubled by an occasional emission, say, for example, once a fortnight.

6. REST ON A HARD MATTRESS.--Keep the body cool when asleep; heat arising from a load of bed-clothes,
is most undesirable. Turn down the counterpane, and let the air have free course through the
blankets.

7. RELIEVE THE SYSTEM.--As much as possible relieve the system of urine before going to sleep.
On rising, bathe if practicable. If you cannot bear cold water, take the least possible chill
off the water (cold water, however, is best). If bathing is not practicable, wash the body
with cold water, and keep scrupulously clean. The reaction caused by cold water, is most desirable.
Rub the body dry with a rough towel. Drink a good draught of cold water.

8. EXERCISE.--Get fifteen minutes' brisk walk, if possible before breakfast. If any sense of
faintness exists, eat a crust of bread, or biscuit. Be regular in your meals, and do not fear
to make a hearty breakfast. This lays a good foundation for the day. Take daily good, but not
violent exercise. Walk until you can distinctly feel the tendency to perspiration. This will
keep the pores of the skin open and in healthy condition.

9. MEDICINES.--Take the medicines, if used, regularly and carefully. Bromide of Potassium is
a most valuable remedy in allaying lustful and heated passions and appetites. Unless there
is actual venereal disease, medicine should be very little resorted to.

10. AVOID THE STREETS AT NIGHT.--Beware of corrupt companions. Fast young men and women should
be shunned everywhere. Cultivate a taste for good reading and evening studies. Home life with
its gentle restraints, pure friendships, and healthful discipline, should be highly valued.
There is no liberty like that of a well-regulated home. To large numbers of young men in business
houses, home life is impracticable.

11. BE OF GOOD CHEER AND COURAGE.--Recovery will be gradual, and not sudden; vital force is
developed slowly from within. The object aimed at by medicine and counsel, is to aid and increase
nervous and physical vigor, and give tone to the demoralized system. Do not pay the slightest
heed to the exaggerated statements of the wretched quack doctors, who advertise everywhere.
Avoid them as you would a pestilence. Their great object is, through exciting your fears, to
get you into their clutches, in order to oppress you with heavy and unjust payments. Be careful,
not to indulge in fancies, or morbid thoughts and feelings. Be hopeful, and play the part of
a man determined to overcome.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANHOOD WRECKED AND RESCUED.

1. THE NOBLEST FUNCTIONS OF MANHOOD.--The noblest functions of manhood are brought into action
in the office of the parent. It is here that man assumes the prerogative of a God and becomes
a creator. How essential that every function of his physical system should be perfect, and
every faculty of his mind free from that which would degrade; yet how many drag their purity
through the filth of masturbation, revel in the orgies of the debauchee, and worship at the
shrine of the prostitute, until, like a tree blighted by the livid lightning, they stand with
all their outward form of men, but without life.

2. THRESHOLD OF HONOR.--Think of a man like that; in whom the passions and vices have burned
themselves out, putting on the airs of a saint and claiming to have reformed. Aye, reformed,
when there is no longer sweetness in the indulgence of lust. Think of such loathsome bestiality,
dragging its slimy body across the threshold of honor and nobility and asking a pure woman,
with the love-light of heaven in her eyes, to pass her days with him; to accept him as her
lord; to be satisfied with the burnt-out, shriveled forces of manhood left; to sacrifice her
purity that he may be redeemed, and to respect in a husband what she would despise in the brute.

3. STOP.--If you are, then, on the highway to this state of degradation, stop. If already you
have sounded the depths of lost manhood, then turn, and from the fountain of life regain your
power, before you perpetrate the terrible crime of marriage, thus wrecking a woman's life and
perhaps bringing into the world children who will live only to suffer and curse the day on
which they were born and the father who begat them.

4. SEXUAL IMPOTENCY.--Sexual impotency means sexual starvation, and drives many wives to ruin,
while a similar lack among wives drives husbands to libertinism. Nothing so enhances the happiness
of married couples as this full, life-abounding, sexual vigor in the husband, thoroughly reciprocated
by the wife, yet completely controlled by both.

5. TWO CLASSES OF SUFFERERS.--There are two classes of sufferers. First, those who have only
practiced self-abuse and are suffering from emissions. Second, those who by overindulgence
in marital relations, or by dissipation with women, have ruined their forces.

6. THE REMEDY.--For self-abuse: When the young man has practiced self-abuse for some time,
he finds, upon quitting the habit, that he has nightly emissions. He becomes alarmed, reads
every sensational advertisement in the papers, and at once comes to the conclusion that he
must take something. Drugs are not necessary.

7. STOP THE CAUSE.--The one thing needful, above all others, is to stop the cause. I have found
that young men are invariably mistaken as to what is the cause. When asked as to the first
cause of their trouble, they invariably say it was self-abuse, etc., but it is not. It is the
thought. This precedes the handling, and, like every other cause, must be removed in order
to have right results.

8. STOP THE THOUGHT.--But remember, stop the thought! You must not look after every woman with
lustful thoughts, nor go courting girls who will allow you to hug, caress and kiss them, thus
rousing your passions almost to a climax. Do not keep the company of those whose only conversation
is of a lewd and depraved character, but keep the company of those ladies who awaken your higher
sentiments and nobler impulses, who appeal to the intellect and rouse your aspiration, in whose
presence you would no more feel your passions aroused than in the presence of your own mother.

9. YOU WILL GET WELL.--Remember you will get well. Don't fear. Fear destroys strength and therefore
increases the trouble. Many get downhearted, discouraged, despairing--the very worst thing
that can happen, doing as much harm, and in many cases more, than their former dissipation.
Brooding kills; hope enlivens. Then sing with joy that the savior of knowledge has vanquished
the death-dealing ignorance of the past; that the glorious strength of manhood has awakened
and cast from you forever the grinning skeleton of vice. Be your better self, proud that your
thoughts in the day-time are as pure as you could wish your dreams to be at night.

10. HELPS.--Do not use tobacco or liquor. They inflame the passions and irritate the nervous
system; they only gratify base appetites and never rouse the higher feelings. Highly spiced
food should be eschewed, not chewed. Meat should be eaten sparingly, and never at the last meal.

11. DON'T EAT TOO MUCH.--If not engaged in hard physical labor, try eating two meals a day.
Never neglect the calls of nature, and if possible have a passage from the bowels every night
before retiring. When this is not done the feces often drop into the rectum during sleep, producing
heat which extends to the sexual organs, causing the lascivious dreams and emission. This will
be noticed especially in the morning, when the feces usually distend the rectum and the person
nearly always awakes with sexual passions aroused. If necessary, use injections into the rectum
of from one to two quarts of water, blood heat, two or three times a week. Be sure to keep
clean and see to it that no matter collects under the foreskin. Wash off the organ every night
and take a quick, cold hand-bath every morning. Have something to do. Never be idle. Idleness
always worships at the shrine of passion.

12. THE WORST TIME OF ALL.--Many are ruined by allowing their thoughts to run riot in the morning.
Owing to the passions being roused as stated above, the young man lies half awake and half
dozing, rousing his passions and reveling in lascivious thought for hours perhaps, thus completely
sapping the fountains of purity, establishing habits of vice that will bind him with iron bands,
and doing his physical system more injury than if he had practiced self-abuse, and had the
emission in a few minutes. Jump out of bed at once on waking, and never allow the thought to
master you.

13. A HAND BATH.--A hand bath in cold water every morning will diminish those rampant sexual
cravings, that crazy, burning, lustful desire so sensualizing to men by millions; lessen prostitution
by toning down that passion which alone patronizes it, and relieve wives by the millions of
those excessive conjugal demands which ruin their sexual health; besides souring their tempers,
and then demanding millions of money for resultant doctor bills.

14. WILL GET WELL.--Feel no more concern about yourself. Say to yourself, "I shall and will
get well under this treatment," as you certainly will. Pluck is half the battle. Mind acts
and reads directly on the sexual organs. Determining to get well gets you well; whilst all
fear that you will become worse makes you worse. All worrying over your case as if it were
hopeless, all moody and despondent feelings, tear the life right out of these organs, whilst
hopefulness puts new life into them.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURSE AND CONSEQUENCE OF SECRET DISEASES.

1. THE SINS OF THE FATHERS ARE VISITED ON THE CHILDREN.--If persons who contract secret diseases
were the only sufferers, there would be less pity and less concern manifested by the public
and medical profession.

2. There are many secret diseases which leave an hereditary taint, and innocent children and
grandchildren are compelled to suffer as well as those who committed the immoral act.

3. GONORRHOEA (Clap) is liable to leave the parts sensitive and irritable, and the miseries
of spermatorrhoea, impotence, chronic rheumatism, stricture and other serious ailments may follow.

4. SYPHILIS (Pox).--Statistics prove that over 30 per cent. of the children born alive perish
within the first year. Outside of this frightful mortality, how many children are born, inheriting
eruptions of the skin, foul ulcerations swelling of the bones, weak eyes or blindness, scrofula,
idiocy, stunted growth, and finally insanity, all on account of the father's early vices. The
weaknesses and afflictions of parents are by natural laws visited upon their children.

5. The mother often takes the disease from her husband, and she becomes an innocent sufferer
to the dreaded disease. However, some other name generally is applied to the disease, and with
perfect confidence in her husband she suffers pain all her life, ignorant of the true cause.
Her children have diseases of the eyes, skin, glands and bones, and the doctor will apply the
term scrofula, when the result is nothing more or less than inherited syphilis. Let every man
remember, the vengeance to a vital law knows only justice, not mercy, and a single moment of
illicit pleasure will bring many curses upon him, and drain out the life of his innocent children,
and bring a double burden of disease and sorrow to his wife.

6. If any man who has been once diseased is determined to marry, he should have his constitution
tested thoroughly and see that every seed of the malady in the system has been destroyed. He
should bathe daily in natural sulphur waters, as, for instance, the hot springs in Arkansas,
or the sulphur springs in Florida, or those springs known as specific remedies for syphilic
diseases. As long as the eruptions on the skin appear by bathing in sulphur water there is
danger, and if the eruptions cease and do not appear, it is very fair evidence that the disease
has left the system, yet it is not an infallible test.

7. How many bright and intelligent young men have met their doom and blighted the innocent
lives of others, all on account of the secret follies and vices of men.

8. PROTECTION.--Girls, you, who are too poor and too honest to disguise aught in your character,
with your sweet soul shining through every act of your lives, beware of the men who smile upon
you. Study human nature, and try and select a virtuous companion.

10. SYPHILITIC POISON INERADICABLE.--Many of our best and ablest physicians assert that syphilitic
poison, once infected, there can be no total disinfection during life; some of the virus remains
in the system, though it may seem latent. Boards of State Charities in discussing the causes
of the existence of whole classes of defectives hold to the opinion given above. The Massachusetts
board in its report has these strong words on the subject:

"The worst is that, though years may have passed since its active stage, it permeates the very
seed of life and causes strange affections or abnormalities in the offspring, or it tends to
lessen their vital force, to disturb or to repress their growth, to lower their standard of
mental and bodily vigor, and to render life puny and short."

11. A SERPENT'S TOOTH.--"The direct blood-poisoning, caused by the absorption into the system
of the virus (syphilis) is more hideous and terrible in its effect than that of a serpent's
tooth. This may kill outright, and there's an end; but that, stingless and painless, slowly
and surely permeates and vitiates the whole system of which it becomes part and parcel, like
myriads of trichinae, and can never be utterly cast out, even by salivation.

"Woe to the family and to the people in whose veins the poison courses!

"It would seem that nothing could end the curse except utter extermination. That, however,
would imply a purpose of eternal vengeance, involving the innocent with the guilty."

This disease compared with small-pox is as an ulcer upon a finger to an ulcer in the vitals.
Small-pox does not vitiate the blood of a people; this disease does. Its existence in a primary
form implies moral turpitude.

12. CASES CITED.--Many cases might be cited. We give but one. A man who had contracted the
disease reformed his ways and was apparently cured. He married, and although living a moral
life was compelled to witness in his little girl's eye-balls, her gums, and her breath the
result of his past sins. No suffering, no expense, no effort would have been too great could
he but be assured that his offspring might be freed from these results.

13. PREVENTION BETTER THAN CURE.--Here is a case where the old adage, "An ounce of prevention
is worth a pound of cure," may be aptly applied. Our desire would be to herald to all young
men in stentorian tones the advice, "Avoid as a deadly enemy any approaches or probable pitfalls
of the disease. Let prevention be your motto and then you need not look for a cure."

14. HELP PROFFERED.--Realizing the sad fact that many are afflicted with this disease we would
put forth our utmost powers to help even these, and hence give on the following pages some
of the best methods of cure.

HOW TO CURE GONORRHOEA (Clap).

CAUSES, IMPURE CONNECTIONS, ETC.

SYMPTOMS.--As the disease first commences to manifest itself, the patient notices a slight
itching at the point of the male organ, which is shortly followed by a tingling or smarting
sensation, especially on making water. This is on account of the inflammation, which now gradually
extends backward, until the whole canal is involved. The orifice of the urethra is now noticed
to be swollen and reddened, and on inspection a slight discharge will be found to be present.
And if the penis is pressed between the finger and thumb, matter or pus exudes. As the inflammatory
stage commences, the formation of pus is increased, which changes from a thin to a thick yellow
color, accompanied by a severe scalding on making water. The inflammation increases up to the
fifth day, often causing such pain, on urinating, that the patient is tortured severely. When
the disease reaches its height, the erections become somewhat painful, when the discharge may
be streaked with blood.

HOME TREATMENT.

First, see that the bowels are loose--if not, a cathartic should be given. If the digestive
powers are impaired, they should be corrected and the general health looked after. If the system
is in a good condition, give internally five drops of gelseminum every two hours. The first
thing to be thought of is to pluck the disease in its bud, which is best done by injections.
The best of these are: tinct. hydrastis, one drachm; pure water, four ounces; to be used three
times a day after urinating. Zinc, sulphate, ten grains; pure water, eight ounces; to be used
after urinating every morning and night. Equal parts of red wine and pure water are often used,
and are of high repute, as also one grain of permanganate of potash to four ounces of water.

If the above remedies are ineffectual, a competent physician should be consulted.

GENERAL TREATMENT.--One of the best injections for a speedy cure is:

  Hydrastis, 1 oz.
  Water, 5 oz.

Mix and with a small syringe inject into the penis four or five times a day after urinating,
until relieved, and diminish the number of injections as the disease disappears. No medicine
per mouth need be given, unless the patient is in poor health.

SYPHILIS (POX).

1. This is the worst of all diseases except cancer--no tissue of the body escapes the ravages
of this dreadful disease--bone, muscle, teeth, skin and every part of the body are destroyed
by its deforming and corroding influence.

2. SYMPTOMS.--About eight days after the exposure a little redness and then a pimple, which
soon becomes an open sore, makes its appearance, on or about the end of the penis in males
or on the external or inner parts of the uterus of females. Pimples and sores soon multiply,
and after a time little hard lumps appear in the groin, which soon develop into a blue tumor
called bubo. Copper colored spots may appear in the face, hair fall out, etc. Canker and ulcerations
in the mouth and various parts of the body soon develop.

3. TREATMENT.--Secure the very best physician your means will allow without delay.

4. LOCAL TREATMENT OF BUBOES.--To prevent suppuration, treatment must be instituted as soon
as they appear. Compresses, wet in a solution composed of half an ounce of muriate of ammonia,
three drachms of the fluid extract of belladonna, and a pint of water, are beneficial, and
should be continuously applied. The tumor may be scattered by painting it once a day with tincture
of iodine.

5. FOR ERUPTIONS.--The treatment of these should be mainly constitutional. Perfect cleanliness
should be observed, and the sulphur, spirit vapor, or alkaline bath freely used. Good diet
and the persistent use of alteratives will generally prove successful in removing this complication.

RECIPE FOR SYPHILIS.
  Bin-iodide of mercury, 1 gr.
  Extract of licorice, 32 gr.

Make into 16 pills. Take one morning and night.

LOTION.
  Bichloride of mercury, 15 gr.
  Lime water, 1 pt.

Shake well, and wash affected parts night and morning.

FOR ERUPTIONS ON TONGUE.
  Cyanide of silver, 1/2 gr.
  Powdered iridis, 2 gr.

Divide into 10 parts. To be rubbed on tongue once a day.

FOR ERUPTIONS IN SYPHILIS.
  A 5 per cent. ointment of carbolic acid, in a good preparation.

BUBO.

TREATMENT.
  Warm poultice of linseed meal,
  Mercurial plaster,
  Lead ointment.

GLEET (CHRONIC CLAP).

1. SYMPTOMS.--When gonorrhoea is not cured at the end of twenty-one or twenty-eight days, at
which time all discharge should have ceased, we have a condition known as chronic clap, which
is nothing more or less than gleet. At this time most of the symptoms have abated, and the
principal one needing medical attention is the discharge, which is generally thin, and often
only noticed in the morning on arising, when a scab will be noticed, glutinating the lips of
the external orifice. Or, on pressing with the thumb and finger from behind, forward, a thin,
white discharge can be noticed.

2. HOME TREATMENT.--The diet of patients affected with this disease is all-important, and should
have careful attention. The things that should be avoided are highly spiced and stimulating
foods and drinks, as all forms of alcohol, or those containing acids. Indulgence in impure
thoughts is often sufficient to keep a discharge, on account of the excitement it produces
to the sensitive organs, thus inducing erections, which always do harm.

3. GENERAL TREATMENT.--The best injection is:
  Nitrate of silver, 1/4 grain
  Pure water, 1 oz.
  Inject three or four times a day after urinating.

STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA.

SYMPTOMS.--The patient experiences difficulty in voiding the urine, several ineffectual efforts
being made before it will flow. The stream is diminished in size, of a flattened or spiral
form, or divided in two or more parts, and does not flow with the usual force.

TREATMENT.--It is purely a surgical case and a competent surgeon must be consulted.

PHIMOSIS.

1. CAUSE.--Is a morbid condition of the penis, in which the glans penis cannot be uncovered,
either on account of a congenital smallness of the orifice of the foreskin, or it may be due
to the acute stage of gonorrhoea, or caused by the presence of soft chancre.

2. SYMPTOMS.--It is hardly necessary to give a description of the symptoms occurring in this
condition, for it will be easily diagnosed, and its appearances are so indicative that all
that is necessary is to study into its cause and treat the disease with reference to that.

TREATMENT.--If caused from acute gonorrhoea, it should be treated first by hot fomentations,
to subdue the swelling, when the glans penis can be uncovered. If the result of the formation
of chancre under the skin, they should be treated by a surgeon, for it may result in the sloughing
off of the end of the penis, unless properly treated.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANIMAL MAGNETISM.

WHAT IT IS AND HOW TO USE IT.

1. MAGNETISM EXISTING BETWEEN THE BODIES OF MANKIND.--It is rational to believe that there
is a magnetism existing between the bodies of mankind, which may have either a beneficial or
a damaging effect upon our health, according to the conditions which are produced, or the nature
of the individuals who are brought in contact with each other. As an illustration of this point
we might consider that, all nature is governed by the laws of attraction and repulsion, or
in other words, by positive and negative forces. These subtle forces or laws in nature which
we call attraction or repulsion, are governed by the affinity--or sameness--or the lack of
affinity--or sameness--which exists between what may be termed the combination of atoms or
molecules which goes to make up organic structure.

2. LAW OF ATTRACTION.--Where this affinity--or sameness--exists between the different things,
there is what we term the law of attraction, or what may be termed the disposition to unite
together. Where there is no affinity existing between the nature of the different particles
of matter, there is what may be termed the law of repulsion, which has a tendency to destroy
the harmony which would otherwise take place.

3. MAGNETISM OF THE MIND.--Now, what is true of the magnet and steel, is also true--from the
sameness of their nature--of two bodies. And what is true of the body in this sense, is also
true of the sameness or magnetism of the mind. Hence, by the laying on of hands, or by the
association of the minds of individuals, we reach the same result as when a combination is
produced in any department of nature. Where this sameness of affinity exists, there will be
a blending of forces, which has a tendency to build up vitality.

4. A PROOF.--As a proof of this position, how often have you found the society of strangers
to be so repulsive to your feelings, that you have no disposition to associate. Others seem
to bring with them a soothing influence that draws you closer to them. All these involuntary
likes and dislikes are but the results of the animal magnetism that we are constantly throwing
off from our bodies,--although seemingly imperceptible to our internal senses.--The dog can
scent his master, and determine the course which he pursues, no doubt from similar influences.

5. HOME HARMONY.--Many of the infirmities that afflict humanity are largely due to a want of
an understanding of its principles, and the right applications of the same. I believe that
if this law of magnetism was more fully understood and acted upon, there would be a far greater
harmony in the domestic circle; the health of parents and children might often be preserved
where now sickness and discord so frequently prevail.

6. THE LAW OF MAGNETISM.--When two bodies are brought into contact with each other, the weak
must naturally draw from the strong until both have become equal. And as long as this equality
exists there will be perfect harmony between individuals, because of the reciprocation which
exists in their nature.

7. SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.--But if one should gain the advantage of the other in magnetic
attraction, the chances are that through the law of development, or what has been termed the
"Survival of the Fittest"--the stronger will rob the weaker until one becomes robust and healthy,
while the other grows weaker and weaker day by day. This frequently occurs with children sleeping
together, also between husband and wife.

8. SLEEPING WITH INVALIDS.--Healthy, hearty, vigorous persons sleeping with a diseased person
is always at a disadvantage. The consumptive patient will draw from the strong, until the consumptive
person becomes the strong patient and the strong person will become the consumptive. There
are many cases on record to prove this statement. A well person should never sleep with an
invalid if he desires to keep his health unimpaired, for the weak will take from the strong,
until the strong becomes the weak and the weak the strong. Many a husband has died from a lingering
disease which saved his wife from an early grave. He took the disease from his wife because
he was the stronger, and she became better and he perished.

9. HUSBAND AND WIFE.--It is not always wise that husband and wife should sleep together, nor
that children--whose temperament does not harmonize--should be compelled to sleep in the same
bed. By the same law it is wrong for the young to sleep with old persons. Some have slept in
the same bed with persons, when in the morning they have gotten up seemingly more tired than
when they went to bed. At other times with different persons, they have lain awake two-thirds
of the night in pleasant conversation and have gotten up in the morning without scarcely realizing
that they had been to sleep at all, yet have felt perfectly rested and refreshed.

10. MAGNETIC HEALING, OR WHAT HAS BEEN KNOWN AS THE LAYING ON OF HANDS.--A nervous prostration
is a negative condition beneath the natural, by the laying on of hands a person in a good,
healthy condition is capable of communicating to the necessity of the weak. For the negative
condition of the patient will as naturally draw from the strong, as the loadstone draws from
the magnet, until both become equally charged. And as fevers are a positive condition of the
system "beyond the natural," the normal condition of the healer will, by the laying on of the
hands, absorb these positive atoms, until the fever of the patient becomes reduced or cured.
As a proof of this the magnetic healer often finds himself or herself prostrated after treating
the weak, and excited or feverish after treating a feverish patient.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO READ CHARACTER.

HOW TO TELL DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY THE NOSE.

1. LARGE NOSES.--Bonaparte chose large-nosed men for his generals, and the opinion prevails
that large noses indicate long heads and strong minds. Not that great noses cause great minds,
but that the motive or powerful temperament cause both.

2. FLAT NOSES.--Flat noses indicate flatness of mind and character, by indicating a poor, low
organic structure.

3. BROAD NOSES.--Broad noses indicate large passage-ways to the lungs, and this, large lungs
and vital organs and this, great strength of constitution, and hearty animal passions along
with selfishness; for broad noses, broad shoulders, broad heads, and large animal organs go
together. But when the nose is narrow at the base, the nostrils are small, because the lungs
are small and need but small avenues for air; and this indicates a predisposition to consumptive
complaints, along with an active brain and nervous system, and a passionate fondness for literary
pursuits.

4. SHARP NOSES.--Sharp noses indicate a quick, clear, penetrating, searching, knowing, sagacious
mind, and also a scold; indicate warmth of love, hate, generosity, moral sentiment--indeed,
positiveness in everything.

5. BLUNT NOSES.--Blunt noses indicate and accompany obtuse intellects and perceptions, sluggish
feelings, and a soulless character.

6. ROMAN NOSES.--The Roman nose indicates a martial spirit, love of debate, resistance, and
strong passions, while hollow, pug noses indicate a tame, easy, inert, sly character, and straight,
finely-formed Grecian noses harmonious characters. Seek their acquaintance.

DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY STATURE.

1. TALL PERSONS.--Tall persons have high heads, and are aspiring, aim high, and seek conspicuousness,
while short ones have flat heads, and seek the lower forms of worldly pleasures. Tall persons
are rarely mean, though often grasping; but very penurious persons are often broad-built.

2. SMALL PERSONS.--Small persons generally have exquisite mentalities, yet less power--the
more precious the article, the smaller the package in which it is done up,--while great men
are rarely dwarfs, though great size often co-exists with sluggishness.

DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY THE WALK.

1. AWKWARD.--Those whose motions are awkward yet easy, possess much efficiency and positiveness
of character, yet lack polish; and just in proportion as they become refined in mind will their
movements be correspondingly improved. A short and quick step indicates a brisk and active
but rather contracted mind, whereas those who take long steps generally have long heads; yet
if the step is slow, they will make comparatively little progress, while those whose step is
long and quick will accomplish proportionately much, and pass most of their competitors on
the highway of life.

2. A DRAGGING STEP.--Those who sluff or drag their heels, drag and drawl in everything; while
those who walk with a springing, bouncing step, abound in mental snap and spring. Those whose
walk is mincing, affected, and artificial, rarely, if ever, accomplish much; whereas those
who walk carelessly, that is, naturally, are just what they appear to be, and put on nothing
for outside show.

3. THE DIFFERENT MODES OF WALKING.--In short, every individual has his own peculiar mode of
moving, which exactly accords with his mental character; so that, as far as you can see such
modes, you can decipher such outlines of character.

THE DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY LAUGHING.

1. LAUGHTER EXPRESSIVE OF CHARACTER.--Laughter is very expressive of character. Those who laugh
very heartily have much cordiality and whole-souledness of character, except that those who
laugh heartily at trifles have much feeling, yet little sense. Those whose giggles are rapid
but light, have much intensity of feeling, yet lack power; whereas those who combine rapidity
with force in laughing, combine them in character.

2. VULGAR LAUGH.--Vulgar persons always laugh vulgarly, and refined persons show refinement
in their laugh. Those who ha, ha right out, unreservedly, have no cunning, and are open-hearted
in everything; while those who suppress laughter, and try to control their countenances in
it, are more or less secretive. Those who laugh with their mouths closed are non-committal;
while those who throw it wide open are unguarded and unequivocal in character.

3. SUPPRESSED LAUGHTER.--Those who, suppressing laughter for a while, burst forth volcano-like,
have strong characteristics, but are well-governed, yet violent when they give way to their
feelings. Then there is the intellectual laugh, the love laugh, the horse laugh, the philoprogenitive
laugh, the friendly laugh, and many other kinds of laugh, each indicative of corresponding
mental developments.

DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY THE MODE OF SHAKING HANDS.

THEIR EXPRESSION OF CHARACTER.--Thus, those who give a tame and loose hand, and shake lightly,
have a cold, if not heartless and selfish disposition, rarely sacrificing much for others,
are probably conservatives, and lack warmth and soul. But those who grasp firmly, and shake
heartily, have a corresponding whole-souledness of character, are hospitable, and will sacrifice
business to friends; while those who bow low when they shake hands, add deference to friendship,
and are easily led, for good or bad, by friends.

THE DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY THE MOUTH AND EYES.

1. DIFFERENT FORMS OF MOUTHS.--Every mouth differs from every other, and indicates a coincident
character. Large mouths express a corresponding quantity of mentality, while small ones indicate
a lesser amount. A coarsely-formed mouth indicates power, while one finely-formed indicates
exquisite susceptibilities. Hence small, delicately formed mouths indicate only common minds,
with very fine feelings and much perfection of character.

2. CHARACTERISTICS.--Whenever the muscles about the mouth are distinct, the character is correspondingly
positive, and the reverse. Those who open their mouths wide and frequently, thereby evince
an open soul, while closed mouths, unless to hide deformed teeth, are proportionately secretive.

3. EYES.--Those who keep their eyes half shut are peek-a-boos and eaves-droppers.

4. EXPRESSIONS OF THE EYE.--The mere expression of the eye conveys precise ideas of the existing
and predominant states of the mentality and physiology. As long as the constitution remains
unimpaired, the eye is clear and bright, but becomes languid and soulless in proportion as
the brain has been enfeebled. Wild, erratic persons have a half-crazed expression of eye, while
calmness, benignancy, intelligence, purity, sweetness, love, lasciviousness, anger, and all
the other mental affections, express themselves quite as distinctly by the eye as voice, or
any other mode.

6. COLOR OF THE EYES.--Some inherit fineness from one parent, and coarseness from the other,
while the color of the eye generally corresponds with that of the skin, and expresses character.
Light eyes indicate warmth of feeling, and dark eyes power.

6. GARMENTS.--Those, who keep their coats buttoned up, fancy high-necked and closed dresses,
etc., are equally non-communicative, but those who like open, free, flowing garments, are equally
open-hearted and communicative.

THE DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER BY THE COLOR OF THE HAIR.

1. DIFFERENT COLORS.--Coarseness and fineness of texture in nature indicate coarse and fine-grained
feelings and characters, and since black signifies power, and red ardor, therefore coarse black
hair and skin signify great power of character of some kind, along with considerable tendency
to the sensual; yet fine black hair and skin indicate strength of character, along with purity
and goodness.

2. COARSE HAIR.--Coarse black hair and skin, and coarse red hair and whiskers, indicate powerful
animal passions, together with corresponding strength of character; while fine or light, or
auburn hair indicates quick susceptibilities, together with refinement and good taste.

3. FINE HAIR.--Fine dark or brown hair indicates the combination of exquisite susceptibilities
with great strength of character, while auburn hair, with a florid countenance, indicates the
highest order of sentiment and intensity of feeling, along with corresponding purity of character,
combined with the highest capacities for enjoyment and suffering.

4. CURLY HAIR.--Curly hair or beard indicates a crisp, excitable, and variable disposition,
and much diversity of character--now blowing hot, now cold--along with intense love and hate,
gushing, glowing emotions, brilliancy, and variety of talent. So look out for ringlets; they
betoken April weather--treat them gently, lovingly, and you will have the brightest, clearest
sunshine, and the sweetest balmiest breezes.

5. STRAIGHT HAIR.--Straight, even, smooth, and glossy hair indicate strength, harmony, and
evenness of character, and hearty, whole-souled affections, as well as a clear head and superior
talents; while straight, stiff, black hair and beard indicate a coarse, strong, rigid, straight-forward
character.

6. ABUNDANCE OF HAIR.--Abundance of hair and beard signifies virility and a great amount of
character; while a thin beard signifies sterility and a thinly settled upper story, with rooms
to let, so that the beard is very significant of character.

7. FIERY RED HAIR indicates a quick and fiery disposition. Persons with such hair generally
have intense feelings--love and hate intensely--yet treat them kindly, and you have the warmest
friends, but ruffle them, and you raise a hurricane on short notice. This is doubly true of
auburn curls. It takes but little kindness, however, to produce a calm and render them as fair
as a Summer morning. Red-headed people in general are not given to hold a grudge. They are
generally of a very forgiving disposition.

SECRETIVE DISPOSITIONS.

1. A man that naturally wears his hat upon the top or back of the head is frank and outspoken;
will easily confide and have many confidential friends, and is less liable to keep a secret.
He will never do you any harm.

2. If a man wears his hat well down on the forehead, shading the eyes more or less, will always
keep his own counsel. He will not confide a secret, and if criminally inclined will be a very
dangerous character.

3. If a lady naturally inclines to high-necked dresses and collars, she will keep her secrets
to herself if she has any. In courtship or love she is an uncertainty, as she will not reveal
sentiments of her heart. The secretive girl, however, usually makes a good housekeeper and
rarely gets mixed into neighborhood difficulties. As a wife she will not be the most affectionate,
nor will she trouble her husband with many of her trials or difficulties.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWILIGHT SLEEP.

Some years ago two German Physicians, Kroenig and Grauss, of the University of Baden, startled
the world by announcing: "Dammerschlaf" or "Twilight Sleep," a treatment which rendered childbirth
almost painless and free from dangerous complications. A woman's clinic was established at
Freiburg where a combination of scopolamine and morphine was given. The muscular activity of
the pelvic organs was not lessened, the length of labor was shortened, and instruments were
rarely necessary.

ABBOTT'S H-M-C is another sedative composed of hyoseine, morphine, and cactoid. It is less
dangerous than the other remedy, and accomplishes the same result, hence is greatly preferred.

THE UTMOST CAUTION is necessary in the administration of either of these drugs, and the most
competent medical supervision is essential to their success.

CAUTIONS.--The patient should not be left a moment without medical supervision. The lying in
chamber should be darkened, and kept as quiet as possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINLESS CHILDBIRTH.

WHY SHOULD A WOMAN SUFFER?--Childbirth is a natural function, as natural as eating, sleeping
or walking. If the laws of nature are complied with it loses most, if not all, of its terrors.
The facts show that Indian women, and those of other uncivilized races have children without
experiencing pain, and with none of the so common modern complications.

WHAT IS THE REASON?--They live a natural, out of doors life, free from the evils and restrictions
of present day civilization in dress and habits of life.

A NORMAL LIFE.--The expectant mother should therefore live a perfectly rational life, keeping
the stomach and intestines especially healthy and active, and hence the general physical condition
good. An abundance of fresh air, hearty exercise, and childbirth will pass over without any
abnormal consequences.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DISEASES OF WOMEN.

THE WOMAN'S PLACE IS IN THE HOME.--For centuries the world has stuck to this rule. Because
the woman has been considered less fit for the struggles of the active workaday world, she
has been kept at home, shut in from the air and sunshine, deprived of healthy exercise, and
obliged to live a life of confinement and inactivity.

WHAT IS THE RESULT?--In connection with menstruation, pregnancy and child bearing a long list
of diseases peculiar to woman have arisen, most of which through proper food and exercise could
be avoided. In matters so vital to posterity false modesty and ignorance can no longer be tolerated.

CHLOROSIS OR ANAEMIA.

Home Treatment: Plenty of good food and fresh air will do much to restore the blood. Keep the
bowels free. Satisfactory results have been brought about by a systematic use of iron as a tonic.

DISORDERS OF THE MENSES.

RETENTION OF MENSTRUATION.

Treatment: When due to the condition of the blood, recommend good food, fresh air, and sunshine
to improve circulation. If the result of cold and exposure means and appliances for restoring
the circulation must be adopted.

In either case the bowels should be kept open by injections.

VICARIOUS MENSTRUATION.

Treatment: No attempt should be made to stop the hemorrhage during the monthly period. The
discharge is usually light although it occasionally causes great weakness. This disorder is
caused by the suppression of the menses, and must be treated accordingly between periods.

CESSATION OF THE MENSES.

Commonly called "Change of Life."

Treatment: At this dangerous and trying period in a woman's life she must adopt the utmost
regularity in the habits of her existence. Hot baths, taken just before retiring, will relieve
the uncomfortable feeling so common at this time of life.

DISORDERS OF THE WOMB.

CANCER OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Call at once a competent physician.

DISPLACEMENT OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Evacuate the bowels and the bladder by means of injections, and the catheter. Place
the fingers in the vagina, locate the mouth of the womb, insert finger into it, and gently
pull the organ into its natural position.

DROPSY OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Use tonics freely together with vapor baths, and frequent hot hip baths.

FALLING OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Build up the physical condition by an abundance of good food, fresh air and sunshine,
with moderate exercise. Astringent injections and vaginal suppositories of oak bark, myrrh,
and cocoa-butter will usually bring relief.

INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Apply stimulating liniment to the abdomen. Keep body warm and moist especially at
extremities. Add 10-15 drops of carbolic acid to one quart of warm water and use as a vaginal
douche. Keep bowels open. Furnish light, nourishing diet, and give tonics.

NEURALGIA OF THE WOMB.

Treatment: Keep feet warm and give injections to the bowels of lobelia, lady slipper, and skullcap.
Rub the abdomen with liniment. Absolute quiet, above all else, will bring relief.

DISEASES OF THE VAGINA.

VAGINITIS, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE VAGINA.

Treatment: Complete rest. Use distilled sweet clover with a slight infusion of lady slipper
warm, three times a day as a vaginal injection.

PROLAPSUS OF THE VAGINA.

Treatment: When the walls of the vagina become folded upon themselves through abortion, rupture
during delivery, excessive indulgence, masturbation, etc. it is called prolapsus. Use an astringent
suppository or injection.

SPASM OF THE VAGINA.

Treatment: This is nothing more than a nervous condition causing the muscles of the vagina
to spasm thus closing the passage, and rendering conception almost impossible. Outdoor exercise,
light but nourishing diet, and general attention to the nervous system will bring prompt relief.
Intercourse, if attempted, should be quiet and unfrequent. An effort should be made to keep
the thoughts on other subjects.

DISEASES OF THE EXTERNAL FEMALE GENITALS.

INFLAMMATION AND ABSCESS.

Treatment: Wash the parts often with warm water, distilled witch hazel, and strong infusion
of lobelia. Keep the bowels free. In severe cases apply poultices of ground flaxseed, sprinkled
over with golden seal and lobelia. After poultices are removed, cleanse parts with warm water,
containing a little tincture of myrrh.

PRURITIS.

Treatment: A very mortifying and uncomfortable affliction, accompanied by an almost uncontrollable
desire to scratch the parts. The itching is due to uncleanliness, excessive masturbation, violent
intercourse, inflammation of the bladder, stomach or liver trouble etc. Bathe the affected
parts well with borax water, and apply a wash of equal parts witch hazel, and an infusion of
lobelia. Use mild laxatives to keep the bowels open.

DISEASES OF THE OVARIES.

DROPSY OF THE OVARIES.

Treatment: An accumulation of fluid in the membranous sack about the ovaries. An operation
is necessary and is almost always successful.

INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES.

Treatment: In mild cases rub abdomen with liniment and apply hot water bottles. Perfect quiet
is essential to an early recovery.

TUMORS OF THE OVARIES.

Treatment: A surgical operation is the only means of cure.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMEDIES FOR DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AFTER PAINS: Salophen in fifteen grain doses. If necessary take another dose in two hours.
Should the pains reappear the next day, repeat the dosage.

AMENORRHEA: Tincture chloride of iron, three drams; tincture cantharides, one dram; tincture
guaiac ammon., one-half dram; tincture aloe, one-half ounce; syrup enough to make six ounces.
Dose: Tablespoonful after meals.

CANCER OF THE WOMB: Make a solution and use in douches: Picric acid, two one-half dram; water
one and one-half pint; the patient must lie flat on back while fluid runs up into the vagina,
hips must be raised; retain the fluid as long as possible. Later on make a cotton tampon, saturated
with chloral hydrate, one-half dram; cocaine hydrochloride, one and one-half grain; dissolve
in five drams of water. Use injection and tampon morning and night.

DYSMENORRHEA: Asafoetida, forty grains; ext. Valerian, twenty grains; ext. Cannabis Indica,
five grains; make twenty pills. Dose: One pill after meals. Use the following ointment for
the pain in the back: Ext. Hyoscyamus, thirty grains; ext. Belladonna, thirty grains; Adipis,
one ounce. Apply locally night and morning.

EMMENAGOGUE: Ergotin, twenty grains; ext. cotton root bark, twenty grains; Purified Aloes,
twenty grains; Dried Ferrous sulphate, twenty grains; ext. Savine, ten grains. Make twenty
pills. Dose: One pill four times a day.

ENDOMETRITIS: Ext. Viburnum Prun, forty grains; ext. Hamamelis, twenty grains; Ergotin, ten
grains; ext. Nux Vomica, two grains; Hydrastin, one grain. Make twenty pills. Dose: One pill
morning and night.

FIBROID TUMORS: Chromium Sulphate, four-grain tablets. Dose: One tablet after meals.

FISSURE OF NIPPLES: Apply Iodoform, one dram; carbolic acid, twenty grains; white Petrolatum,
one ounce. Apply at night; requires thorough washing next morning.

HELONIAS COMPOSITION: Helonias, fifteen grains; Squaw wine, sixty grains; Viburnum Opulus,
fifteen grains; Caulophyllum, fifteen grains; syrup, two ounces. Dose: Teaspoonful every two hours.

LEUCORRHOEA: Ext. Hyoscyamus, one dram; ext. Hamamelis, one dram; tannic acid, one dram; ext.
Helonias, one-half dram; Salicylic acid, one dram; Alum, three drams; boric acid, five drams.
Dissolve flat teaspoonful in half cup of water, soak a cotton tampon and place way up in the
vagina. As a tonic take: Tincture Cinchona comp., two ounces; tincture gentian comp., two ounces.
Dose: Dessertspoonful after meals.

MENOPAUSE: Ammonium bromide, two drams; Potassium bromide, four drams; aromatii spirits amoniae,
six drams; camphor water enough to make six ounces. Dose: One dessertspoonful, three times a day.

MENORRHAGIA: Gallic acid, fifty grains; Ergotin, twenty grains; Hydrastin, ten grains. Make
twenty pills. Dose: One pill after meals. Another prescription: Calcium chloride, two and one-half
drams; syrup, fifteen drams; water, six ounces. Dose: One tablespoonful morning and night.

MENSTRUAL IRREGULARITIES: Extracts of cramp bark, forty grains; blue cohosh, ten grains; Squaw
wine, forty grains; pokeberry, twenty grains; strychnine, one grain. Make forty pills. Dose:
One pill four times a day until relieved.

MENSTRUATION, PROFUSE: Extracts of white ash bark, two drams; black haw, two drams; cramp bark,
two drams; unicorn root, one dram; Squaw wine, one dram; blue cohosh, one dram. Steep 24 hours
in one-half pint of water, add one-half pint of alcohol. Dose: Tablespoonful three times a day.

NEURALGIA OF WOMB: Fl. ext. henbane, two drams; Fl. ext. Indian hemp, one dram; Fl. ext. snake
root, four drams; spirits of camphor, two drams; compound spirits of ether, three ounces. Dose:
One teaspoonful in water three times a day. Medicated hot sitz bath.

OVARIAN CONGESTION: Black haw, sixty grains; Golden seal, sixty grains; Jamaica dogwood, thirty
grains; syrup and water, four ounces. Dose: One teaspoonful three or four times a day.

OVARIAN SEDATIVE: Lupulin, ten grains; ergotin, five grains; scutellarin, ten grains; zinc
bromide, two grains. Make twenty pills. Dose: One pill after meals.

VAGINISMUS: Strontium bromide, two drams; potassium bromide, two drams; ammonium bromide, two
drams; water to make ten ounces. Dose: Tablespoonful morning and night. Make a suppository
and insert night: Cocaine hydrochlorate, two grains; ext. Belladonna, one and one-half grains;
Strontium bromide, four grains; Oil Theobromat, two drams. Use every night one such suppository,
placed high up in the vagina until all signs of the difficulty are gone.

VAGINITIS: Resorcine, forty grains; Salicylic acid, eight grains; Betanaphtholis, one grain;
add enough water to make it eight ounces. Dose: Add to this mixture one tablespoonful to a
quart of warm water and douche vagina in above stated manner. Use also suppository as in Vaginismus.

VULVA ITCHING: Apply externally morning and night the following salve: Boric acid, thirty grains;
Oxide of zinc, sixty grains. Powdered starch, sixty grains; Petrolatum, one ounce. Apply on
cotton and to affected parts.

ULCERATIONS OF VAGINA OR WOMB: Insert a suppository each one made of Boric acid, five grains;
Powdered alum, five grains. Or the following composition; Black haw, two grains; golden seal,
two grains; add enough cocoa butter to make one suppository. Insert and keep in over night
after a hot medicated vaginal douche is taken.

UTERINE ASTRINGENT: Alum, three drams; zinc sulphate, two drams; morphine sulphate, one grain;
tannic acid, two drams; Boric acid, six drams. Mix and use of it one tablespoonful dissolved
in pint of warm water. Inject slowly into vagina in recumbent position, retain the douche fluid
as long as possible. Later on insert when retiring a vaginal suppository.

UTERINE HEMORRHAGES: Take Stypticin tablets according to printed direction on the package.

UTERINE TONIC: Helonin, three grains; Caulophyllin, three grains; Macrotin, three grains; Hyoscyamine,
three grains. Make twenty pills. Dose: One pill after meals.

UTERINE TONIC AND STIMULANT: Take Elixir of Helonias, which can be bought in drug stores, or
get the following tinctures and make it at home: Partridge berry, ninety-six grains; unicorn
root, forty-eight grains; Blue cohosh, forty-eight grains; cramp bark, forty-eight grains.
Dose: One teaspoonful three times a day.

WHITES: Dried alum, one-half ounce; Borax, two ounces; boric acid, four ounces; Thymol, ten
grains; Eucalyptol, ten grains; Oil of peppermint, two drams. Dissolve, one teaspoonful of
the mixture in a pint of hot water and use as a douche morning and night.

WOMB SPASMS: Cramp bark, one ounce; skullcap, one ounce; skunk cabbage, four drams.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.

A

Abstention, 137 Abstinence, 52 Abuse After Marriage, 202 Abortion or Miscarriage, 253 Abortion,
Causes and Symptoms, 253 Abortion, Home Treatment, 254 Abortion, Prevention of, 254 Abortion,
The Sin of Herod, 257 Abortion, The Violation of all Law, 256 Absence of Physician, 300 Abraham
a Polygamist, 133 A Broken Heart, 159 Aboriginal, Australian, 162 Admired and Beloved, 28 Advantages
of Wedlock, 135 Advice to Newly Married Couples, 201 Advice to Married and Unmarried, 181 Advice
to Bridegroom, 201 Advice to Young Mothers, 286 Advice to Young Married People, 435 Advice
to Young Men, 437 Adultery in the Heart, 409 After Birth, 300 Affectionate Parents, 227 Amenorrhoea,
355 Amativeness or Connubial Love, 122 Animal Passions, 434 Animal Impulse, 227 Apoplexy, 365
Artificial Impregnation, 270 Arms, Beautiful, 131 Assassin of Garfield, 294 Asking an Honest
Question, 61 Associates, Influence of, 11 Authority of the Wife, 267

B

Bad Company, The Result of, 13 Bad Society, 381 Bad Dressing, 409 Bad Books, 421 Bad Breath,
365 Bathing, Rules for, 371-373 Bath, The, 83 Barber's Shampoos, 107 Bad Breast, 322 Bastards
or Illegitimates, 224 Beginning of Life, 5 Begin at Right Place, 7 Begin Well, 17 Beauty and
Style, 27 Beauty a Dangerous Gift, 27 Beautiful Women, Beware of, 27 Beauty in Dress, 89 Beauty,
91-92 Beauty Which Perishes Not, 92 Beauty, Sensible Hints to, 95 Beautiful Arms, 131 "Be Ye
Fruitful and Multiply", 201 Beautiful Children, How to Have, 288 Birth, Conditions of, 229
Biliousness, 279, 357, 363 Bites and Stings of Insects, 359 Bloom and Grace of Youth, 97 Black-heads,
and Flesh Worms, 112 Blue Feelings, 159 Bleeding, 364 Both Puzzled, 77 Bodily Symmetry, 100,
105 Boils, 364 Breath, The, 86 Broad Hips, 130 Breach of Confidence, 191 Bride, The, 199 "Bridal
Tour", 200 Breasts, Swelled and Sore, 348 Burns, 13, 355, 359 Busts, Full, 130 Bunions, 364
Bubo Treatment, 468

C

Care of the Person, 84 Care of the Hair, 107 Cause of Family Troubles, 217 Calamities of Lust,
416-419 Causes of Sterility, 251 Causes of Divorce, 258-262 Care of New-Born Infant, 315 Cataracts
of the Eyes, 355 Causes of Prostitution, 412 Celibacy, Disadvantages of, 138 Chinese Marriage
System, 133 Children, Healthy and Beautiful, 222-227 Children, Idiots, Criminals and Lunatics,
222 Children's Condition Depends on Parents, 225 Children, All, May Die, 226 Children, Too
Many, 229 Children, Foolish Dread of, 241 Character Lost, 9 Character, Formation of, 11 Character,
Essence, 12 Character Exhibits Itself, 15 Character, Beauty of, 18 Child, An Honored, 19 Character,
School of, 23 Child, The, is Father of the Man, 24 Character, Female, Influence of, 30 Children,
Fond of, 62 Character, Influence of Good, 73 Character is Property, 74 Child Bearing without
Pain, 304, 479 Chickenpox, 346, 363 Chapped Hands, 355, 356 Chilblains, 359 Child Training,
396 Chastity and Purity, 400 Character, How to Read, 473 Civilization, 18 Circumcision, 394
Cigarette Smoking, Effects of, 445, 450 Clap--Gonorrhoea, 464 Clap--Gonorrhoea Treatment, 466
Corsets, 101-103 Corset, Egyptian, 104 Coloring for Eyelashes and Eyebrows, 108 Confidence,
122 Connubial Love, 122 Concubinage and Polygamy, 133 Courtship and Marriage, 148 Court Scientifically,
166 Consummation of Marriage, 202 Conception, 239 Conception, Its Limitations, 240 Conceptions
and Accidents of Lust, 256 Courtship and Marriage, 267 Control, Self, 12 Coarseness, 24 Correspondence,
36 Conversation, 79 Conception or Impregnation, 269 Conception, The Proper Time for, 289 Colic,
318, 338, 356 Convulsions, Infantile, 319 Constipation, To Prevent, 323, 339 Coughs, Colds,
etc., 360 Cold Water for Diseases, 369 Cook for the Sick, How to, 375 Cramps, 277, 356 Croup,
How to Treat, 343 Crimping Hair, 109 Criminals and Heredity, 399 Crowning Sin of the Age, 411
Cuts, 358, 360 Cultivate Modesty, 210 Cultivate Personal Attractiveness, 210 Cultivate Physical
Attractiveness, 211 Curse of Manhood, The, 433

D

Day Dreaming, 26 Dangerous Diseases, 257 Danger in Lack of Knowledge, 403 Deformities, 98 Development
of the Individual, 98 Desertion and Divorce, 187 Desire, Stimulated by Drugs, 250 Desire Moderated
by Drugs, 250 Deformities, 264 Desire, Want of, 205 Deafness, How to Cure, 362 Devil's Decoys,
The, 419 Disadvantages of Celibacy, 138 Diseased, Parents, 144 Disrupted Love, 159 Divorces,
166 Distress during Consummation, 202 Diseases, Heredity and Transmission of, 263 Diseases
of Pregnancy, 274 Diseases of Infants and Children, 338 Diarrhoea, 340, 363 Diphtheria, 346
Diseases of Women and Treatment, 349, 480-485 Disinfectant, 360 Digestibility of Food, 374
Dietetic Recipes, 375 Diseases of Women, 483 Dictionary of Medical Terms, 486 Drink, 16 Dress,
88 Dress Affects Our Manners, 90 Drugs which Stimulate Desire, 250 Drugs which Moderate Desire,
250 Drug Habit, The, 441 Dude of the 17th Century, 87 Duration of Pregnancy, 296 Dyspepsia
Cure, 360

E

Early Marriages, 351, 410 Education of Child in the Womb, 292 Effects of Cigarette Smoking,
445-450 Egyptian Dancer, An, 20 Eruptions on the Skin, 272 Etiquette, Rules on, 49 Etiquette
of Calls, 56 Etiquette in Your Speech, 57 Etiquette of Dress and Habits, 58 Etiquette on the
Street, 59 Etiquette Between Sexes, 60 Eugenic Baby Party, 75 Eunuchs, 407 Evidence of Conception,
269 Expectant Mother, The, 284 Exciting the Passions in Children, 404 Exposed Youth, 427 Excesses
by Married Men, 434 Eye Wash, 355

F

Fame, 18 Family Group, Blessing the, 19 Family Government, 76 False Beautifiers, 129 False
Appearance, 131 Family Troubles, Cause of, 217 Families, Small, 232 Fallopian Tubes, 237 Fake
Medical Advice, 240, 250 Fainting, 281 Falling of the Womb, 350 Fast Young Men, 435 Female
Character, Influence of, 30 Female Beauty, 129 Feet, Small, 130 Female Organs, Conditions of,
204 Female Magnetism, 235 Female Sexual Organs, 235 Feeding Infants, 319 Fevers, 327 Feet with
Bad Odor, 354 Felon, 358, 364 Female Organs of Creative Life, 385 First Love, 185 First Conjugal
Approach, 203 Flirting, 166, 168 Flirting and Its Dangers, 190 Form, Male and Female, 98 Former
Customs, 162 Fondling and Caressing, 168 Folly of Follies, 217 Foetal Heart, 273 Follies of
Youth, 468 Free Lovers, 133 Frequency of Intercourse, 208 Full Busts, 130

G

Garden of Eden, 133 Gathered Breast, 322 Generosity, 126 Generative Organs, Male, 234 Generative
Organs, Female, 236 Girls, Save the, 380 Gland, The Penal, 235 Gland, The Prostate, 235 Gladstone,
8 Gleet, Symptoms and Treatment of, 468 Good Character, 73 Gout, 362 Gonorrhoea (Clap), 464
Gonorrhoea (Clap), Remedy for, 466 Grace, 28 Gray Hair, 110 Grave-Yard Statistics, 226 Grossness
of Sensuality, 419

H

Hawaiian Islands and Marriage, 163 Harlot's Woes, A, 431 Habits, 17 Hair and Beard, 85 Hand
in Hand, 92 Hair, The Care of, 107-111 Hate-Spats, 154 Hap-Hazard Marriages, 218 Hair, How
to Remove, 360 Harlot's Mess of Meat, The, 418 Harlot's Influence, 431 Health a Duty, 7 Helps
to Beauty, 95 Heart, A Broken, 159 Healthy Wives and Mothers, 183 Hereditary Descent, 224 Healthy
People--Most Children, 226 Heartburn, 276, 357 Headache, 280, 355, 360, 363 Health Rules for
Babies, 314 History of Marriage, 132 Hints on Courtship and Marriage, 148-153 Hints in Choosing
a Partner, 162 Hives, 354, 360 Home Ties, 6, 22 Home, The Best Regulated, 14 Honesty or Knavery,
17 Home Power, 23 Home Makes the Man, 23 Home the Best of Schools, 25 Homely Men, 128 Honeymoon,
How to Perpetuate, 209 Home Treatment, Diseases of Children, 338 Home Treatment of the Secret
Habit, 455 How to Write Letters, 34-47 How to Write Love Letters, 37 How to Write Social Letters,
39 How to Determine Perfect Human Figure, 99 How to be a Good Wife, 210 How to be a Good Husband,
212 How to Calculate Time of Labor, 295 How to Keep a Baby Well, 330-335 How to Cook for the
Sick, 375 How Many Girls are Ruined, 190 How to Overcome "Secret Habit", 389 How to Tell a
Victim of the "Secret Habit", 451 How to Tell Children the Story of Life, 390-395, 401-403
Hot Water for all Diseases, 368 Husband, Whom to Choose for a, 144 Husband's Brutality, 412
Hymen or Vaginal Valve, 202, 203, 236 Hysteria, 349

I

Ignorance, 24 Illicit Pleasures, 207 Illegitimates or Bastards, 224 Illegitimates, Character
of, 225 Impulse, 14 Impolite, 70 Improper Liberties, 168 Improvement of the Race, 232 Impotence
and Sterility 248 Impotence, Lack of Sexual Vigor, 251 Improper Liberties During Courtship,
267 Impregnation or Conception, 269, 283 Impregnation Artificial, 270 Immorality, Disease and
Death, 416 Independence, The Growth of, 6 Influences, 18 Integrity, 19 Influence, The Mother's,
21 Influence of Women, 30 Intelligence, 126-131 Intercourse, Proper, 205 Indulgence, The Time
for, 207 Intercourse, Frequency of, 208 Intercourse During Pregnancy, 207, 283 Infanticide,
255 Infantile Convulsions, 319 Indigestion, 328 Infant Teething, 336 Inflammation of Womb,
349 Inhumanities of Parents, 396 Itching of External Parts, 279

J

Jealousy, 156 Jealousy--Its Cause and Cure, 219 Juke Family, The, 243

K

Kalmuck Tartar and Marriage, 163 Keep the Boys Pure, 429 Kindness, 28 Kissing, 168 Knowledge
is Safety, 3

L

Ladies' Society, 61 Lady's Dress in Days of Greece, 100 Lacing, 104 Large Men, 126 Lack of
Knowledge, 267 Letter Writing, 34-47 Letters, Social, 39 Leucorrhoea, 247, 349 Lessons for
Parents, 312 Life Methods, 18 Licentiousness, Beginning of, 151 Limitation of Offspring, 242
Liver-Spots, 281 Love Letters, 37 Love, 114-117 Love, Power and Peculiarities of, 118 Love,
Turkish Way of Making, 120 Love and Common Sense, 123 Love-Spats, 154 Love for the Dead, 160
Loss of Desire, 205 Longevity, 367 Loss of Maiden Purity, 404 Low Fiction, 421 Lost Manhood
Restored, 459 Lung Trouble, 326 Lustful Eyes, 410

M

Marriage Excesses, 208 Matrimonial Infelicity, 217 Male Sexual Organs, 234 Maternity a Diadem
of Beauty, 262 Marks and Deformities, 264 Maternity, Preparation for, 266 Marrying Too Early,
288 Marry, Time to, 351 Man Unsexed, 407 Marriage Bed Resolutions, 427 Man's Lost Powers, 436
Man, The Ideal, 14 Masculine Attention, 62 Maternal Love, 24 Manners, Table, 63 Male Form,
98 Marriage, History of, 132 Marriage, 134 Marriages, Too Early, 136-144 Maids, Old, 140-143
Marry, When and Whom to, 144 Marrying First Cousins, 146 Marriage, Hints on, 148 Marriages,
Unhappy, 151 Matrimonial Pointers, 171 Marriage Securities, 174 Marrying for Wealth, 181 Marriage,
Time for, 191 Marriage and Motherhood, 192 Marriage, Consummation of, 202 Manhood Wrecked and
Rescued, 461 Magnetism, 470-472 Men Haters, 62 Membership in Society, 66 Mental Derangements,
264 Menstruation During Pregnancy, 270 Menstruation During Nursing, 352 Measles, 328, 345,
363 Menstruation, 351, 385 Men Demand Purity, 427 Miscarriage, 207, 253, 283 Miscarriage, Causes
and Symptoms, 253 Miscarriage Home Treatment, 254 Miscarriage Prevention, 254 Middle Age, 436
Mistakes Often Fatal, 7 Mistakes of Parents, 185 Moderation, 243 Morning Sickness and Remedy,
271, 282 Modified Milk, 329 Moral Degeneracy, 414 Moral Manhood, 414 Moral Lepers, 433 Moral
Principle, 16 Mother's Influence, 21 Mother, A Devoted, 22 Mohammedanism, 133 Mormonism, 133
Monogamy (Single Wife), 134 Motherhood, 150 Morganic Marriages, 162 Murder of the Innocents,
255 Mumps, 345, 358

N

Name, A Good, 18 Name, An Empty or an Evil, 20 Nature's Remedy, 233 Natural Waist, 105 Newly
Married Couples, Advice to, 201 Neuralgia, 356, 360 Need of Early Instruction, 380 Non-Completed
Intercourse, 411 Nocturnal Emissions and Home Treatment, 459 Nurseries, 24 Nuptial Chamber,
202-204 Nursing, 321 Nursing Sick Children, 325 Nude in Art, The, 422

O

Obscene Literature, 421 Offspring, The Improvement of, 222 Old Maids, 140-143 Ornaments, 94
Our Secret Sins, 409 Ovaries, 237-238 Over-indulgence, 251 Over-Worked Mothers, 285

P

Parents Must Obey, 226 Parents, Feeble and Diseased, 241 Palpitation of the Heart, 281 Pains
and Ills in Nursing, 321 Parents Must Teach Children, 391 Passions in Children, 404 Passionate
Men, 127 Parents, Diseased, 144 Parents' Participation, 224 Penal Gland, 235 Personal Purity,
31, 415 Penmanship, 34 Personality of Others, 70 Person, Care of the, 81 Perfect Human Figure,
99 Penalties for lost Virtue, 432 Physical and Moral Degeneracy, 414 Physical Deformities,
98 Physical Perfection, 99 Physical Relations of Marriage, 192 Phimosis, Symptoms and Treatment,
469 Piles, 280, 362 Pimples or Facial Eruptions, 111 Plea for Purity, A, 380 Plain Words to
Parents, 390 Pleasures, Illicit, 207 Population Limited, 232 Poison Ivy, 359 Poison Sumach,
359 Policy of Silence in Sex Matters, 416 Pollution, Sinks of, 12 Pollution, Sow, 15 Politeness,
70 Polygamy, 133-162 Popping the Question, 195 Poisonous Literature, 421 Pox-Syphilis, 464
Pox-Symptoms and Treatment, 467 Prevention of Conception, 233, 239, 240-241 Prevention, Nature's
Method, 243 Prenatal Influences, 244 Prostate Gland, 235 Producing Boys or Girls at Will, 252
Preparation for Maternity, 266 Pregnancy Signs and Symptoms, 270 Pregnancy, Diseases of, 274
Pregnancy, Duration of, 296 Prescription for Diseases, 355 Prickly Heat, Cure for, 373 Principle
Moral, 10 Prisons, 19 Practical Rules on Table Manners, 63 Prostitution, 137,381 Proposing,
A Romantic Way, 198 Proper Intercourse, 205 Pregnancy, Restraint During, 207 Preparation for
Parenthood, 225 Prostitution of Men, 427 Private Talk to Young Men, 437 Puberty, Virility and
Hygienic Laws, 406 Purity, 62 Puberty, 144 Puritanic Manhood, 425 Pure Minded Wife, 435

Q

Quacks and Methods Exposed, 250, 453, 457 Quickening, 271 Quinsy, 365

R

Reputation, Value of, 9 Reputation, Selling out Their, 19 Religion in Women, 131 Restraint
During Pregnancy, 207 Revelation for Women, 247 Remedies for Sterility, 249 Remedies for Diseases,
355 Recruiting Office for Prostitution, 380 Remedy for "Secret Habit", 394 Rebuking Sensualism,
410 Remedies for the Social Evil, 440 Remedies for Diseases of Women, 483-485 Rival the Boys,
27 Ring Worm, 362 Rights of Lovers, 168 Right of Children to be Born Right, 464 Roman Ladies,
29 Road to Shame, The, 430 Rules on Etiquette, 49-64 Rules on Table Manners, 63 Ruin and Seduction,
152 Rules for the Nurse, 366 Ruined Sister, A, 431

S

Save the Girls, 380 Save the Boys, 390 Scientific Theories of Life, 238 Scarlet Fever, 328,
343, 363 Schedule for Feeding Babies, 329 Sexual Passions, 407 Sexual Exhaustion, 411 Secret
Diseases, 413 Seeing Life, 419 Sexual Impotency, The Remedy, 461 Secret Diseases, 464 Seed
of Life, 225 Sexual Organs, Male, 234 Sexual Organs, Female, 235 Seducer, The, 190 Self Abuse
or "Secret Habit", 389 Sex Instruction for Children, 380, 390, 400 Sexual Propensities, 400
Self-Control, 12 Self-Denial, Practice, 15 Selfishness, 24 Self-Forgetfulness, 72 Sensible
Helps to Beauty, 95-114 Sexual Excitement, 126 Sexual Vigor, 127 Seduction and Ruin, 152 Seducer,
A, 168 Sensuality and Unnatural Passion, 202-208 Sexual Life, Rightly Beginning, 205 Sexual
Proprieties and Improprieties, 206 Separate Beds, 206 Sexual Control, 208-241 Shall Sickly
People Raise Children, 233 Shall Pregnant Women Work, 285 Shy People, 72 Signs and Symptoms
of Labor, 297 Signs of Virility, 408 Signs of Excesses, 410 Sisterhood of Shame, The, 418,
425 Slaves of Injurious Drugs, 441 Sleeplessness, 281 Small Families, 232 Small and Weakly
Men, 126 Sore Nipples, 321 Society Evils, 384 Society, Govern, 24 Social Letters, 39 Social
Duties, 65 Society, Membership in, 66 Soiled Garments, 85 Soft Men, 27 Solomon and Polygamy,
133 Society Rules and Customs, 191 Sowing Wild Oats, 417 Social Evil, 410 Speech, Improved
by Reading, 57 Special Safeguards in Confinement, 299 Sprains, 359 Startling Sins, 423 Sterility
in Females, 237 Sterility, 248 Sterility, Remedies for, 249 Sterility common to women, 251
Stomachache, 326 Stabs, 358 Story of Life for Children, 401 Stranger, Silken Enticements of,
28 Style of Beauty, 91 Summer Complaint, 340 Success or Failure, 276 Swollen Legs During Pregnancy,
276 Symptoms of the "Secret Habit", 451 Syphilitic Poison, 465 Syphilis (Pox), 464, 467 Syphilis
(Pox) Treatment of, 468 Syphilis, Recipe for, 468 Syringes, Whirling Spray, 246

T

Table Manners, 63 Tables for Feeding a Baby, 329 Teeth, 85 Test of Virginity, 202, 237 Teething,
336, 310 Teach Sex Truths to Children, 401, 416 Temples of Lust, 425 Thinking only of Dress,
81 Throat Troubles, 354 Tight Lacing, 104 Time to Marry, 351 Too Many Children, 229 Toothache,
280 True Kind of Beauty, 129 Twins, 205 Twilight Sleep, 479

U

Unwelcome Child, 258 Union of the Sexes, The, 400 Unchastity, 409 Unfaithfulness, 423 Unjust
Demands, 428 Underclothing, 85 Uniformed Men, 128 Unhappy Marriages, 151 Urethra, 231 Urethra,
Stricture of--Symptoms and Treatment, 469

V

Vaginal Cleanliness, 246 Vice or Virtue, 6 Virtues, Root of all the, 12 Virtue, A New, 19 Virginity,
Test of, 202, 237 Vile Women, 382 Vomiting, 363 Vulgar Desire, 428 Vulgar, Society of the, 11

W

Warning, 6 Waist, Natural, 105 Wasp Waists, 181 Warts, Cure for, 364 Wealth, 73 Wedlock, Advantages
of, 135 Wedding Rings, 167 Wedding, The Proper Time, 199 Weaning, 318 Wens, 364 What Women
Love in Men, 126 What Men Love in Women, 129 When and Whom to Marry, 311 Why Children Die,
226 When Conception Takes Place, 269 Whites, The, 277 What a Mother Should Know, 326 Whooping
Cough, 344, 360 Why Girls Go Astray, 381 What is Puberty, 406 When Passion Begins, 407 Wife,
How to be a Good, 210 Words, Power of, 15 Woman, The Best Educator, 25 Women, Young, 26 Women,
Influence of, 30 Woman Haters, 61 Woman the Perfect Type of Beauty, 92 Woman's Love, 116 Women
who Makes Best Wives, 178 Worms and Remedy, 341 Womb, inflammation of, 349 Womb Falling of, 350

Y

Young Mothers, Advice to, 286 Young Man's Personal Appearance, 86 Youth, Bloom and Grace of,
97 Youthful Sexual Excitement, 126