"He is one who has loved you long, lady," said the man, sadly, speaking ever in that made and
husky voice (wonderful actor that he was by nature!), which he sustained so well that, had
I not unmistakably identified him, it might have imposed on my ear as real. "Hear what has
been written on this subject: When others have forsaken you and left you to your fate, he has
continued faithful to your memory. The revelation of your immurement was made simultaneously
to two men who called themselves your lovers, and its sad necessity explained by your ever-watchful
guardian. One of these lovers repudiated your claims upon him, and turned coldly from the idea
of uniting his fate to that of one who had even for an hour been a suspected lunatic; the other
declared himself willing to take her as she was to his arms, even though her own were loaded
with the chains of a mad-house! Penniless and abandoned by all the world, and with a clouded
name, he woos her as his wife--the woman he adores!"

And, as he read, or seemed to read, these words, with scarce an accent to mar their impetuous
flow, Dr. Englehart drew in his breath with the hissing sound of passion, and folded his arms
tightly across his padded breast, as if they enfolded the bride he was suing for in another's name.

"And who, let me ask, is this Paladin of chivalry?" I inquired, derisively. "Give me his name,
that I may consider the subject well and thoroughly before we meet at last."

"Excuse me if I refuse to give the name of eider of dese gentlemen at dis onhappy season,"
he rejoined. "Wen de brain is all right again"--tapping his own forehead--"your guardian will
conduct the faithful knight to kneel at de feet of her he loves so well."

"And the other--where is he?" fell involuntarily from my lips--my heaving heart--an inquiry
that I regretted as soon as it was uttered; for, affecting sorrowful mystery, the man inclined
himself toward me and whispered in my ear confidentially:

"Plighted to another, and gone where no eyes of yours shall rest on him again."

"Pander--liar--spy!" burst from my passionate lips as in all the fury of desperation I turned
from the creature who had so wantonly wounded my self-respect, and waved to him to begone.
Another name quivered on my lips, but I checked it on their threshold after that first burst
of indignation instantly subdued.

I was not brave enough nor strong enough to hazard a shaft like that which might have been
returned to me so deathfully. I would let the barrier stand which he had erected between us,
and which to demolish would be to lay myself open, perhaps, to insult of the darkest description.

Let the ostrich with his head in the sand still imagine himself unseen; the masquerader still
conceive himself secure beneath his paper travesty; the serpent still coil apparently unrecognized
beside the bare, gray stone that reveals him to the eye--I was too cowardly, too feeble, to
cope with strategy and double-dyed duplicity like this!

So the man went his way with his silly secret undiscovered, as he deemed, and that it might
remain so to the end, as far as he could know, I devoutly prayed. For I knew of old the unscrupulous
lengths to which, when nerved by hate or disappointment or passions of any kind, he could go,
without a particle of mercy for his victims or remorse for his ill-doing.

When Dr. Englehart was gone--for so I still choose to call him for some reasons, although I
give my reader credit for still more astuteness than I possessed myself, and believe that he
has long ago recognized, through this cloud of mystery and travesty thrown about him, an old
acquaintance--the child Ernie rose from the bed on which he had lain tremulous and observant,
with his small hands clinched, his eyes on fire. "Ernie kill bad man!" he exclaimed, ferociously,
"for trouble missy. Give Ernie letter--he carry it away and hide it; bad letter--make poor
Mirry cry."

"No, Ernie, I will keep it," I said, as I laid it carefully aside. "It shall stand as a sign
and testimony of treachery to the end. Go to sleep, little child; but first say your prayers,
so that the good angels may sit by you all night. Don't you hear Mrs. Clayton groaning? Poor
Clayton! I most go and comfort her and soothe her pains, as Dinah cannot do. And, now that
the bad doctor is gone home, and we are all locked up again securely, we shall rest peacefully,
I trust; and so, good-night!"

CHAPTER VII.

From being the most silent of children, a perfect creep-mouse in every way, Ernie had become
fearfully loquacious under my care, and was now as talkative as he had ever been observant.

The action that most children develop through exercise of limb had been reserved for his untiring
tongue. He had literally learned to talk from hearing me read aloud, which I did daily, much
to Mrs. Clayton's delight and edification, for the benefit of my own lungs, which suffered
from such confirmed silence, as I had at first indulged in. His exquisite ear--his prodigious
memory--aided him in the acquirement of words, and even long and difficult sentences, of which
he delivered himself oracularly when engaged with his blocks and dominoes.

He told himself wonderful stories in which the "buful faiwry" and "hollible" giant of the story-books
figured largely. I am almost ashamed to acknowledge that I would hold my breath and strain
my ear at times to listen to these murmured stories, self-addressed, as I have never done to
receive the finest ebullitions of eloquence or the veriest marvels of the raconteur. There
was something so sweet, so wondrous to me in this little, ever-babbling baby-brain fountain,
content with its own music, having no thought of auditors or effect, no care for appreciation,
totally self-addressed and self-absorbed, that I was never weary of giving it my ear and interest.
Had the child known of or perceived this, the effect would have been destroyed, and a fatal
self-consciousness have been instituted instead of this lotus-eating infantile abandon--the
very existence of which mood indicated genius. What poor Ernie's father might nave been I could
only surmise from his own qualities, which, after all, may have flowed from a far-off source;
but that his mother had been gentle, simple, and inefficient, I knew full well, from my slight
acquaintance with her, and observation of her non-resisting organization. Ernie, on the contrary,
grappled with obstacles uncomplainingly, and was only outspoken in his moments of gratification.
His was the temperament that is the noblest and the most magnanimous in its very moulding.
Whining children are selfish, as a rule, and petty-minded, and most often incapable of enjoyment--which
last is a gift of itself that goes not always with possession.

Among other accomplishments self-acquired, Ernie had the power of mimicry to a singular degree.
Mrs. Clayton had a slight hitch in her gait of late from rheumatic suffering, which he simulated
solemnly, notwithstanding every effort on my part to restrain him.

Without a smile or any effort of mirth, he would limp behind as she walked across the floor,
unconscious of his close attendance, and when she would turn suddenly and detect him, and shake
her clinched fist at him, half in jest, he would retaliate by a similar gesture, and scowl,
and stamp of the foot, that so nearly resembled her own proceedings as to cause me much internal
merriment. But of course for his own advantage, as well as from regard for her feelings, it
was necessary for me on such occasions to assume a gravity of deportment bordering on displeasure.

It may be supposed, then, that when, on the morning after Dr. Englehart's visit, before my
chamber had been swept and garnished, and while Mrs. Clayton was busy in her own, Ernie brought
me a letter and laid it on the table before me, as Dr. Englehart had done the night before
in his presence, I was infinitely amused.

What, then, was my surprise in stooping over it to find this letter addressed to myself in
the unfamiliar yet never-to-be-forgotten character of Wardour Wentworth!

After the first moment of bewilderment I opened the already-fastened letter--closed, as was
the fashion of the day, without envelope, and sealed originally with wax, of which a few fragments
still remained alone.

The date, the subject, the earnest contents, convinced me that I now held the clew of that
mystery which had baffled me so long, and that the missing letter said to have been lost at
Le Noir's Landing was at last in my possession. It needed not this additional proof of treachery
to convince me that my suspicions had been correct, and that, next to the arch-fiend Bainrothe,
I owed the greatest misery of my life to him who, in his ill-adjusted disguise, had dropped
this letter from his pocket on the preceding evening--my evil genius, Dr. Englehart--alias
Luke Gregory.

It was a gracious thing in God to permit me to owe the great happiness of this discovery to
the little crippled child he had cast upon my care so mysteriously, and I failed not to render
to him with other grateful acknowledgments "most humble and hearty thanks" for this crowning
grace. Henceforth Hope should lend her torch to light my dearth--her wings to bear me up--her
anchor wherewith to moor my bark of life wherever cast, and to the poor waif I cherished I
owed this immeasurable good. Had Mrs. Clayton anticipated him with her infallible besom--that
housewifely detective, that drags more secrets to light than ever did paid policeman--I should
never have grasped this talisman of love and hope, never have waked up as I did wake up from
that hour to the endurance which immortalizes endeavor, and renders patience almost pleasurable.

On the back of this well-worn letter was a pencil-scrawl, which, although I read it last, I
present first to my reader, that he may trace link by link the chain of villainy that bound
together my two oppressors.

It was in the small, clear calligraphy of Basil Bainrothe, before described; characterized,
I believe, as a backhand--and thus it ran:

    "You are right--it was a master-stroke! Keep them in ignorance
    of each other, and all will yet go well. I sail to-morrow, and
    have only time to inclose this with a pencilled line. Try and
    head them at New York. My first idea was the best--my reason I
    will explain later.

    "Yours truly,

    "B.B.

    "N.B.--The man could not have played into our hands better than
    by taking up such an impression. There is no one there to
    undeceive him."

    THE LETTER.

    "My Miriam: Your note, through the hands of Mr. Gregory, has
    been received--read, noted, pondered over with pain and
    amazement. The avowal of your name so uselessly withheld from
    me, lets in a whole flood of light, blinding and dazzling, too,
    on a subject that fills me with infinite solicitude.

