In the instance, then, of the thoughtless man; in the case where there is little or no self-examination;
God unquestionably knows the man as well as the man knows himself. The Omniscient One is certainly
possessed of an amount of knowledge equal to that small modicum which is all that a rational
and immortal soul can boast of in reference to itself. But the vast majority of mankind fall
into this class. The self-examiners are very few, in comparison with the millions who possess
the power to look into their hearts, but who rarely or never do so. The great God our Judge,
then, surely knows the mass of men, in their down-sitting and uprising, with a knowledge that
is equal to their own. And thus do we establish our first position, that God knows all that
the man knows; God's knowledge is equal to the very best part of man's knowledge.

In concluding this part of the discussion, we turn to consider some practical lessons suggested
by it.

1. In the first place, the subject reminds us that we are fearfully and wonderfully made. When
we take a solar microscope and examine even the commonest object--a bit of sand, or a hair
of our heads-we are amazed at the revelation that is made to us. We had no previous conception
of the wonders that are contained in the structure of even such ordinary things as these. But,
if we should obtain a corresponding view of our own mental and moral structure; if we could
subject our immortal natures to a microscopic self-examination; we should not only be surprised,
but we should be terrified. This explains, in part, the consternation with which a criminal
is filled, as soon as he begins to understand the nature of his crime. His wicked act is perceived
in its relation to his own mental powers and faculties. He knows, now, what a hazardous thing
it is to possess a free-will; what an awful thing it is to own a conscience. He feels, as he
never did before, that he is fearfully and wonderfully made, and cries out: "O that I had never
been born! O that I had never been created a responsible being! these terrible faculties of
reason, and will, and conscience, are too heavy for me to wield; would that I had been created
a worm, and no man, then, I should not have incurred the hazards under which I have sinned
and ruined myself."

The constitution of the human soul is indeed a wonderful one; and such a meditation as that
which we have just devoted to its functions of self-examination and memory, brief though it
be, is enough to convince us of it. And remember, that this constitution is not peculiar to
you and to me. It belongs to every human creature on the globe. The imbruted pagan in the fiery
centre of Africa, who never saw a Bible, or heard of the Redeemer; the equally imbruted man,
woman, or child, who dwells in the slime of our own civilization, not a mile from where we
sit, and hear the tidings of mercy; the filthy savage, and the yet filthier profligate, are
both of them alike with ourselves possessed of these awful powers of self-knowledge and of memory.

Think of this, ye earnest and faithful laborers in the vineyard of the Lord. There is not a
child that you allure into your Sabbath Schools, and your Mission Schools, that is not fearfully
and wonderfully made; and whose marvellous powers you are doing much to render to their possessor
a blessing, instead of a curse. When Sir Humphrey Davy, in answer to an inquiry that had been
made of him respecting the number and series of his discoveries in chemistry, had gone through
with the list, he added: "But the greatest of my discoveries is Michael Faraday." This Michael
Faraday was a poor boy employed in the menial services of the laboratory where Davy made those
wonderful discoveries by which he revolutionized the science of chemistry, and whose chemical
genius he detected, elicited, and encouraged, until he finally took the place of his teacher
and patron, and acquired a name that is now one of the influences of England. Well might he
say: "My greatest discovery was when I detected the wonderful powers of Michael Faraday." And
never will you make a greater and more beneficent discovery, than when, under the thick scurf
of pauperism and vice, you detect the human soul that is fearfully and wonderfully made; than
when you elicit its powers of self-consciousness and of memory, and, instrumentally, dedicate
them to the service of Christ and the Church.

2. In the second place, we see from the subject, that thoughtlessness in sin will never excuse
sin. There are degrees in sin. A deliberate, self-conscious act of sin is the most intense
form of moral evil. When a man has an active conscience; when he distinctly thinks over the
nature of the transgression which he is tempted to commit; when he sees clearly that it is
a direct violation of a command of God which he is about to engage in; when he says, "I know
that this is positively forbidden by my Maker and Judge, but I will do it,"--we have an instance
of the most heaven-daring sin. This is deliberate and wilful transgression. The servant knows
his lord's will and does it not, and he shall be beaten with "many stripes," says Christ.

But, such sin as this is not the usual form. Most of human transgressions are not accompanied
with such a distinct apprehension, and such a deliberate determination. The sin of ignorance
and thoughtlessness is the species which is most common. Men, generally, do not first think
of what they are about to do, and then proceed to do it; but they first proceed to do it, and
then think nothing at all about it. But, thoughtlessness will not excuse sin; though, it is
a somewhat less extreme form of it, than deliberate transgression. Under the Levitical law,
the sin of ignorance, as it was called, was to be expiated by a somewhat different sacrifice
from that offered for the wilful and deliberate sin; but it must be expiated. A victim must
be offered for it. It was guilt before God, and needed atonement. Our Lord, in His prayer for
His murderers, said, "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." The act of crucifying
the Lord of glory was certainly a sin, and one of an awful nature. But the authors of it were
not fully aware of its import. They did not understand the dreadful significance of the crucifixion
of the Son of God, as we now understand it, in the light of eighteen centuries. Our Lord alludes
to this, as a species of mitigation; while yet He teaches, by the very prayer which He puts
up for them, that this ignorance did not excuse His murderers. He asks that they may be forgiven.
But where there is absolutely no sin there is no need of forgiveness. It is one of our Lord's
assertions, that it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah, in the day of judgment,
than it will be for those inhabitants of Palestine who would not hear the words of His apostles,--because
the sin of the former was less deliberate and wilful than that of the latter. But He would
not have us infer from this, that Sodom and Gomorrah are not to be punished for sin. The sin
of thoughtlessness shall be beaten with fewer stripes than the sin of deliberation,--but it
shall be beaten, and therefore it is sin.

The almost universal indifference and thoughtlessness with which men live on in a worldly and
selfish life, will not excuse them in the day of accurate accounts. And the reason is, that
they are capable of thinking upon the law of God; of thinking upon their duties; of thinking
upon their sins. They possess the wonderful faculties of self-inspection and memory, and therefore
they are capable of bringing their actions into light. It is the command of God to every man,
and to every rational spirit everywhere, to walk in the light, and to be a child of the light.
We ought to examine ourselves; to understand our ruling motives and abiding purposes; to scrutinize
our feelings and conduct. But if we do little or nothing of this, we must not expect that in
the day of judgment we can plead our thoughtless ignorance of what we were, and what we did,
here upon earth, as an excuse for our disobedience. God expects, and demands, that every one
of His rational creatures should be all that he is capable of being. He gave man wonderful
faculties and endowments,--ten talents, five talents, two talents,--and He will require the
whole original sum given, together with a faithful use and improvement of it. The very thoughtlessness
then, particularly under the Gospel dispensation,--the very neglect and non-use of the power
of self-inspection,--will go in to constitute a part of the sin that will be punished. Instead
of being an excuse, it will be an element of the condemnation itself.

3. In the third place, even the sinner himself ought to rejoice in the fact that God is the
Searcher of the heart. It is instinctive and natural, that a transgressor should attempt to
conceal his character from his Maker; but next to his sin itself, it would be the greatest
injury that he could do to himself, should he succeed in his attempt. Even after the commission
of sin, there is every reason for desiring that God should compass our path and lying down,
and be acquainted with all our ways. For, He is the only being who can forgive sin; the only
one who can renew and sanctify the heart. There is the same motive for having the disease of
the soul understood by God, that there is for having the disease of the body examined by a
skilful physician. Nothing is gained, but every thing is lost, by ignorance.

The sinner, therefore, has the strongest of motives for rejoicing in the truth that God sees
him. It ought not to be an unwelcome fact even to him. For how can his sin be pardoned, unless
it is clearly understood by the pardoning power? How can his soul be purified from its inward
corruption, unless it is searched by the Spirit of all holiness?

Instead, therefore, of being repelled by such a solemn truth as that which we have been discussing,
even the natural man should be allured by it. For it teaches him that there is help for him
in God. His own knowledge of his own heart, as we have seen, is very imperfect and very inadequate.
But the Divine knowledge is thoroughly adequate. He may, therefore, devolve his case with confidence
upon the unerring One. Let him take words upon his lips, and cry unto Him: "Search me, O God,
and try me; and see what evil ways there are in me, and lead me in the way everlasting." Let
him endeavor to come into possession of the Divine knowledge. There is no presumption in this.
God desires that he should know himself as He knows him; that he should get possession of His
views upon this point; that he should see himself as He sees him. One of the principal sins
which God has to charge upon the sinner is, that his apprehensions respecting his own character
are in conflict with the Divine. Nothing would more certainly meet the approbation of God,
than a renunciation of human estimates of human nature, and the adoption of those contained
in the inspired word. Endeavor, therefore, to obtain the very same knowledge of your heart
which God Himself possesses. And in this endeavor, He will assist you. The influences of the
Holy Spirit to enlighten are most positively promised and proffered. Therefore be not repelled
by the truth; but be drawn by it to a deeper, truer knowledge of your heart. Lift up your soul
in prayer, and beseech God to impart to you a profound knowledge of yourself, and then to sprinkle
all your discovered guilt, and all your undiscovered guilt, with atoning blood. This is salvation;
first to know yourself, and then to know Christ as your Prophet, Priest, and King.

[Footnote 1: PENSÉES: Grandeur de l'homme, 6. Ed. Wetstein.]

[Footnote 2: CHAPMAN: Byron's Conspiracy.]

GOD'S EXHAUSTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF MAN. [*continued]

PSALM cxxxix. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it."

In the preceding discourse upon this text, we directed attention to the fact that man is possessed
of the power of self-knowledge, and that he cannot ultimately escape from using it. He cannot
forever flee from his own presence; he cannot, through all eternity, go away from his own spirit.
If he take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the earth, he must,
sooner or later, know himself, and acquit or condemn himself.

Our attention was then directed to the fact, that God's knowledge of man is certainly equal
to man's knowledge of himself. No man knows more of his own heart than the Searcher of hearts
knows. Up to this point, certainly, the truth of the text is incontrovertible. God knows all
that man knows.

II. We come now to the second position: That God accurately and exhaustively knows all that
man might, but does not, know of himself.

Although the Creator designed that every man should thoroughly understand his own heart, and
gave him the power of self-inspection that he might use it faithfully, and apply it constantly,
yet man is extremely ignorant of himself. Mankind, says an old writer, are nowhere less at
home, than at home. Very few persons practise serious self-examination at all; and none employ
the power of self-inspection with that carefulness and sedulity with which they ought. Hence
men generally, and unrenewed men always, are unacquainted with much that goes on within their
own minds and hearts. Though it is sin and self-will, though it is thought and feeling and
purpose and desire, that is going on and taking place during all these years of religious indifference,
yet the agent himself, so far as a sober reflection upon the moral character of the process,
and a distinct perception of the dreadful issue of it, are concerned, is much of the time as
destitute of self-knowledge as an irrational brute itself. For, were sinful men constantly
self-examining, they would be constantly in torment. Men can be happy in sin, only so long
as they can sin without thinking of it. The instant they begin to perceive and understand what
they are doing, they begin to feel the fang of the worm. If the frivolous wicked world, which
now takes so much pleasure in its wickedness, could be forced to do here what it will be forced
to do hereafter, namely, to eye its sin while it commits it, to think of what it is doing while
it does it, the billows of the lake of fire would roll in upon time, and from gay Paris and
luxurious Vienna there would instantaneously ascend the wailing cry of Pandemonium.

But it is not so at present. Men here upon earth are continually thinking sinful thoughts and
cherishing sinful feelings, and yet they are not continually in hell. On the contrary, "they
are not in trouble as other men are, neither are they plagued like other men. Their eyes stand
out with fatness; they have more than heart could wish." This proves that they are self-ignorant;
that they know neither their sin nor its bitter end. They sin without the consciousness of
sin, and hence are happy in it. Is it not so in our own personal experience? Have there not
been in the past ten years of our own mental history long trains of thought,--sinful thought,--and
vast processions of feelings and imaginings,--sinful feelings and imaginings,--that have trailed
over the spaces of the soul, but which have been as unwatched and unseen by the self-inspecting
eye of conscience, as the caravans of the African desert have been, during the same period,
by the eye of our sense? We have not felt a pang of guilt every single time that we have thought
a wrong thought; yet we should have felt one inevitably, had we scrutinized every such single
thought. Our face has not flushed with crimson in every particular instance in which we have
exercised a lustful emotion; yet it would have done so had we carefully noted every such emotion.
A distinct self-knowledge has by no means run parallel with all our sinful activity; has by
no means been co-extensive with it. We perform vastly more than we inspect. We have sinned
vastly more than we have been aware of at the time.

Even the Christian, in whom this unreflecting species of life and conduct has given way, somewhat,
to a thoughtful and vigilant life, knows and acknowledges that perfection is not yet come.
As he casts his eye over even his regenerate and illuminated life, and sees what a small amount
of sin has been distinctly detected, keenly felt, and heartily confessed, in comparison with
that large amount of sin which he knows he must have committed, during this long period of
incessant action of mind, heart, and limbs, he finds no repose for his misgivings with respect
to the filial examination and account, except by enveloping himself yet more entirely in the
ample folds of his Redeemer's righteousness; except by hiding himself yet more profoundly in
the cleft of that Rock of Ages which protects the chief of sinners from the unsufferable splendors
and terrors of the Divine glory and holiness as it passes by. Even the Christian knows that
he must have committed many sins in thoughtless moments and hours,--many sins of which he was
not deliberately thinking at the time of their commission,--and must pray with David, "Cleanse
thou me from secret faults." The functions and operations of memory evince that such is the
case. Are we not sometimes, in our serious hours when memory is busy, convinced of sins which,
at the time of their commission, were wholly unaccompanied with a sense of their sinfulness?
The act in this instance was performed blindly, without self-inspection, and therefore without
self-conviction. Ten years, we will say, have intervened,--years of new activity, and immensely
varied experiences. And now the magic power of recollection sets us back, once more, at that
point of responsible action, and bids do what we did not do at the time,--analyze our performance
and feel consciously guilty, experience the first sensation of remorse, for what we did ten
years ago. Have we not, sometimes, been vividly reminded that upon such an occasion, and at
such a time, we were angry, or proud, but at the time when the emotion was swelling our veins
were not filled with, that clear and painful sense of its turpitude which now attends the recollection
of it? The re-exhibition of an action in memory, as in a mirror, is often accompanied with
a distinct apprehension of its moral character that formed no part of the experience of the
agent while absorbed in the hot and hasty original action itself. And when we remember how
immense are the stores of memory, and what an amount of sin has been committed in hours of
thoughtlessness and moral indifference, what prayer is more natural and warm than the supplication:
"Search me O God, and try me, and see what evil ways there are within me, and lead me in the
way everlasting."

But the careless, unenlightened man, as we have before remarked, leads a life almost entirely
destitute of self-inspection, and self-knowledge. He sins constantly. He does only evil, and
that continually, as did man before the deluge. For he is constantly acting. A living self-moving
soul, like his, cannot cease action if it would. And yet the current is all one way. Day after
day sends up its clouds of sensual, worldly, selfish thoughts. Week after week pours onward
its stream of low-born, corrupt, unspiritual feelings. Year after year accumulates that hardening
mass of carnal-mindedness, and distaste for religion, which is sometimes a more insuperable
obstacle to the truth, than positive faults and vices which startle and shock the conscience.
And yet the man thinks nothing about all this action of his mind and heart. He does not subject
it to any self-inspection. If he should, for but a single hour, be lifted up to the eminence
from which all this current of self-will, and moral agency, may be seen and surveyed in its
real character and significance, he would start back as if brought to the brink of hell. But
he is not thus lifted up. He continues to use and abuse his mental and his moral faculties,
but, for most of his probation, with all the blindness and heedlessness of a mere animal instinct.

There is, then, a vast amount of sin committed without self-inspection; and, consequently,
without any distinct perception, at the time, that it is sin. The Christian will find himself
feeling guilty, for the first time, for a transgression that occurred far back in the past,
and will need a fresh application of atoning blood. The sinner will find, at some period or
other, that remorse is fastening its tooth in his conscience for a vast amount of sinful thought,
feeling, desire, and motive, that took origin in the unembarrassed days of religious thoughtlessness
and worldly enjoyment.

For, think you that the insensible sinner is always to be thus insensible,--that this power
of self-inspection is eternally to "rust unused?" What a tremendous revelation will one day
be made to an unreflecting transgressor, simply because he is a man and not a brute, has lived
a human life, and is endowed with the power of self-knowledge, whether he has used it or not!
What a terrific vision it will be for him, when the limitless line of his sins which he has
not yet distinctly examined, and thought of, and repented of, shall be made to pass in slow
procession before that inward eye which he has wickedly kept shut so long! Tell us not of the
disclosures that shall be made when the sea shall give up the dead that are in it, and the
graves shall open and surrender their dead; what are these material disclosures, when compared
with the revelations of self-knowledge! What is all this external display, sombre and terrible
as it will be to the outward eye, when compared with all that internal revealing that will
be made to a hitherto thoughtless soul, when, of a sudden, in the day of judgment, its deepest
caverns shall heave in unison with the material convulsions of the day, and shall send forth
to judgment their long slumbering, and hidden iniquity; when the sepulchres of its own memory
shall burst open, and give up the sin that has long lain buried there, in needless and guilty
forgetfulness, awaiting this second resurrection!

For (to come back to the unfolding of the subject, and the movement of the argument), God perfectly
knows all that man might, but does not, know of himself. Though the transgressor is ignorant
of much of his sin, because at the time of its commission he sins blindly as well as wilfully,
and unreflectingly as well as freely; and though the transgressor has forgotten much of that
small amount of sin of which he was conscious, and by which he was pained, at the time of its
perpetration; though on the side of man the powers of self-inspection and memory have accomplished
so little towards the preservation of man's sin, yet God knows it all, and remembers it all.
He compasseth man's path, and his lying-down, and is acquainted with all his ways. The Creator
of the human mind has control over its powers of self-inspection, and of memory; and when the
proper time comes He will compel these endowments to perform their legitimate functions, and
do their appointed work. The torturing self-survey will begin, never more to end. The awful
recollection will commence, endlessly to go on.

One principal reason why the Biblical representations of human sinfulness exert so little influence
over men, and, generally speaking, seem to them to be greatly exaggerated and untrue, lies
in the fact that the Divine knowledge of human character is in advance of the human knowledge.
God's consciousness and cognition upon this subject is exhaustive; while man's self-knowledge
is superficial and shallow. The two forms of knowledge, consequently, when placed side by side,
do not agree, but conflict. There would be less difficulty, and less contradiction, if mankind
generally were possessed of even as much self-knowledge as the Christian is possessed of. There
would be no difficulty, and no contradiction, if the knowledge of the judgment-day could be
anticipated, and the self-inspection of that occasion could commence here and now. But such
is not the fact. The Bible labors, therefore, under the difficulty of possessing an advanced
knowledge; the difficulty of being addressed to a mind that is almost entirely unacquainted
with the subject treated of. The Word of God knows man exhaustively, as God knows him; and
hence all its descriptions of human character are founded upon such a knowledge. But man, in
his self-ignorance, does not perceive their awful truth. He has not yet attained the internal
correspondent to the Biblical statement,--that apprehension of total depravity, that knowledge
of the plague of the heart, which always and ever says "yea" to the most vivid description
of human sinfulness, and "amen" to God's heaviest malediction upon it. Nothing deprives the
Word of its nerve and influence, more than this general lack of self-inspection and self-knowledge.
For, only that which is perceived to be true exerts an influence upon the human mind. The doctrine
of human sinfulness is preached to men, year after year, to whom it does not come home with
the demonstration of the Spirit and with power, because the sinfulness which is really within
them is as yet unknown, and because not one of a thousand of their transgressions has ever
been scanned in the light of self-examination. But is the Bible untrue, because the man is
ignorant? Is the sun black, because the eye is shut?

However ignorant man may be, and may desire and strive to be, of himself, God knows him altogether,
and knows that the representations of His word, respecting the character and necessities of
human nature, are the unexaggerated, sober, and actual fact. Though most of the sinner's life
of alienation from God, and of disobedience, has been a blind and a reckless agency, unaccompanied
with self-scrutiny, and to a great extent passed from his memory, yet it has all of it been
looked at, as it welled, up from the living centres of free agency and responsibility, by the
calm and dreadful eye of retributive Justice, and has all of it been indelibly written down
in the book of God's sure memory, with a pen of iron, and the point of a diamond.

And here, let us for a moment look upon the bright, as well as the dark side of this subject.
For if God's exhaustive knowledge of the human heart waken dread in one of its aspects, it
starts infinite hope in another. If that Being has gone down into these depths of human depravity,
and seen it with a more abhorring glance than could ever shoot from a finite eye, and yet has
returned with a cordial offer to forgive it all, and a hearty proffer to cleanse it all away,
then we can lift up the eye in adoration and in hope. There has been an infinite forbearance
and condescension. The worst has been seen, and that too by the holiest of Beings, and yet
eternal glory is offered to us! God knows, from personal examination, the worthlessness of
human character, with a thoroughness and intensity of knowledge of which man has no conception;
and yet, in the light of this knowledge, in the very flame of this intuition, He has devised
a plan of mercy and redemption. Do not think, then, because of your present ignorance of your
guilt and corruption, that the incarnation and death of the Son of God was unnecessary, and
that that costly blood of atonement which you are treading under foot wet the rocks of Calvary
for a peccadillo. Could you, but for a moment only, know yourself altogether and exhaustively,
as the Author of this Redemption knows you, you would cry out, in the words of a far holier
man than you are, "I am undone." If you could but see guilt as God sees it, you would also
see with Him that nothing but an infinite Passion can expiate it. If you could but fathom the
human heart as God fathoms it, you would know as He knows, that nothing less than regeneration
can purify its fountains of uncleanness, and cleanse it from its ingrain corruption.

Thus have we seen that God knows man altogether,--that He knows all that man knows of himself,
and all that man might but does not yet know of himself. The Searcher of hearts knows all the
thoughts that we have thought upon, all the reflections that we have reflected upon, all the
experience that we have ourselves analyzed and inspected. And He also knows that far larger
part of our life which we have not yet subjected to the scrutiny of self-examination,--all
those thoughts, feelings, desires, and motives, innumerable as they are, of which we took no
heed at the time of their origin and existence, and which we suppose, perhaps, we shall hear
no more of again. Whither then shall we go from God's spirit? or whither shall we flee from
His presence and His knowledge? If we ascend up into heaven, He is there, and knows us perfectly.
If we make our bed in hell, behold He is there, and reads the secret thoughts and feelings
of our heart. The darkness hideth not from Him; our ignorance does not affect His knowledge;
the night shineth as the day; the darkness and the light are both alike to Him.

This great truth which we have been considering obtains a yet more serious emphasis, and a
yet more solemn power over the mind, when we take into view the character of the Being who
thus searches our hearts, and is acquainted with all our ways. Who of us would not be filled
with uneasiness, if he knew that an imperfect fellow-creature were looking constantly into
his soul? Would not the flush of shame often burn upon our cheek, if we knew that a sinful
man like ourselves were watching all the feelings and thoughts that are rising within us? Should
we not be more circumspect than we are, if men were able mutually to search each other's hearts?
How often does a man change his course of conduct, when he discovers, accidentally, that his
neighbor knows what he is doing.

But it is not an imperfect fellow-man, it is not a perfect angel, who besets us behind and
before, and is acquainted with, all our ways. It is the immaculate God himself. It is He before
whom archangels veil their faces, and the burning seraphim cry, "Holy." It is He, in whose
sight the pure cerulean heavens are not clean, and whose eyes are a flame of fire devouring
all iniquity. We are beheld, in all this process of sin, be it blind or be it intelligent,
by infinite Purity. We are not, therefore, to suppose that God contemplates this our life of
sin with the dull indifference of an Epicurean deity; that He looks into our souls, all this
while, from mere curiosity, and with no moral emotion towards us. The God who knows us altogether
is the Holy One of Israel, whose wrath is both real, and revealed, against all unrighteousness.

If, therefore, we connect the holy nature and pure essence of God with all this unceasing and
unerring inspection of the human soul, does not the truth which, we have been considering speak
with a bolder emphasis, and acquire an additional power to impress and solemnize the mind?
When we realize that the Being who is watching us at every instant, and in every act and element
of our existence, is the very same Being who revealed himself amidst the lightenings of Sinai
as hating sin and not clearing the thoughtless guilty, do not our prospects at the bar of justice
look dark and fearful? For, who of the race of man is holy enough to stand such an inspection?
Who of the sons of men will prove pure in such a furnace?

Are we not, then, brought by this truth close up to the central doctrine of Christianity, and
made to see our need of the atonement and righteousness of the Redeemer? How can we endure
such a scrutiny as God is instituting into our character and conduct? What can we say, in the
day of reckoning, when the Searcher of hearts shall make known, to us all that He knows of
us? What can we do, in that day which shall reveal the thoughts and the estimates of the Holy
One respecting us?

It is perfectly plain, from the elevated central point of view where we now stand, and in the
focal light in which we now see, that no man can be justified before God upon the ground of
personal character; for that character, when subjected to God's exhaustive scrutiny, withers
and shrinks away. A man may possibly be just before his neighbor, or his friend, or society,
or human laws, but he is miserably self-deceived who supposes that his heart will appear righteous
under such a scrutiny and in such a Presence as we have been considering.[1] However it may
be before other tribunals, the apostle is correct when he asserts that "every mouth, must be
stopped, and the whole world plead guilty before God." Before the Searcher of hearts, all mankind
must appeal to mere and sovereign mercy. Justice, in this reference, is out of the question.
The Divine mercy has been manifested in a mode that does not permit even the guiltiest to doubt
its reality, its sufficiency, or its sincerity. The argument is this. "If when, we were yet
sinners," and known to be such, in the perfect and exhaustive manner that has been described,
"Christ died for us, much more, being now justified by His blood, shall we be saved from Wrath
through Him." Appropriating this atonement which the Searcher of hearts has Himself provided
for this very exigency, and which He knows to be thoroughly adequate, no man, however guilty,
need fear the most complete disclosures which the Divine Omniscience will have to make of human
character in the day of doom. If the guilt is "infinite upon infinite," so is the sacrifice
of the God-man. Who is he that condemmeth? it is the Son of God that died for sin. Who shall
lay anything to God's elect? it is God that justifieth. And as God shall, in the last day,
summon up from the deep places of our souls all of our sins, and bring us to a strict account
for everything, even to the idle words that we have spoken, we can look Him full in the eye,
without a thought of fear, and with love unutterable, if we are really relying upon the atoning
sacrifice of Christ for justification. Even in that awful Presence, and under that Omniscient
scrutiny, "there is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus."

The great lesson, then, taught by the text and its unfolding, is the importance of attaining
self-knowledge here upon earth, and while there remaineth a sacrifice for sins. The duty and
wisdom of every man is, to anticipate the revelations of the judgment day; to find out the
sin of his soul, while it is an accepted time and a day of salvation. For we have seen that
this self-inspection cannot ultimately be escaped. Man was made to know himself, and he must
sooner or later come to it. Self-knowledge is as certain, in the end, as death. The utmost
that can be done, is to postpone it for a few days, or years. The article of death and the
exchange of worlds will pour it all in, like a deluge, upon every man, whether he will or not.
And he who does not wake up to a knowledge of his heart, until he enters eternity, wakes up
not to pardon but to despair.

The simple question, then, which, meets us is: Wilt thou know thyself here and now, that thou
mayest accept and feel God's pity in Christ's blood, or wilt thou keep within the screen, and
not know thyself until beyond the grave, and then feel God's judicial wrath? The self-knowledge,
remember, must come in the one way or the other. It is a simple question of time; a simple
question whether it shall come here in this world, where the blood of Christ "freely flows,"
or in the future world, where "there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin." Turn the matter
as we will, this is the sum and substance,--a sinful man must either come to a thorough self-knowledge,
with a hearty repentance and a joyful pardon, in this life; or he must come to a thorough,
self-knowledge, with a total despair and an eternal damnation, in the other. God is not mocked.
God's great pity in the blood of Christ must not be trifled with. He who refuses, or neglects,
to institute that self-examination which leads to the sense of sin, and the felt need of Christ's
work, by this very fact proves that he does not desire to know his own heart, and that he has
no wish to repent of sin. But he who will not even look at his sin,--what does not he deserve
from that Being who poured out His own blood for it? He who refuses even to open his eyes upon
that bleeding Lamb of God,--what must not he expect from the Lion of the tribe of Judah, in
the day of judgment? He who by a life of apathy, and indifference to sin, puts himself out
of all relations to the Divine pity,--what must he experience in eternity, but the operations
of stark, unmitigated law?

Find out your sin, then. God will forgive all that is found. Though your sins be as scarlet,
they shall be as white as snow. The great God delights to forgive, and is waiting to forgive.
But, sin must be seen by the sinner, before it can be pardoned by the Judge. If you refuse
at this point; if you hide yourself from yourself; if you preclude all feeling and conviction
upon the subject of sin, by remaining ignorant of it; if you continue to live an easy, thoughtless
life in sin, then you cannot be forgiven, and the measure of God's love with which He would
have blessed you, had you searched yourself and repented, will be the measure of God's righteous
wrath with which He will search you, and condemn you, because you have not.

[Footnote 1: "It is easy,"--says one of the keenest and most incisive of theologians,--"for
any one in the cloisters of the schools to indulge himself in idle speculations on the merit
of works to justify men; but when he comes into the presence of God, he must bid farewell to
these amusements, for there the business is transacted with seriousness. To this point must
our attention be directed, if we wish to make any useful inquiry concerning true righteousness:
How we can answer the celestial Judge when He shall call us to an account? Let us place that
Judge before our eyes, not according to the inadequate imaginations of our minds, but according
to the descriptions given of him in the Scriptures, which represent him as one whose refulgence
eclipses the stars, whose purity makes all things appear polluted, and who searches the inmost
soul of his creatures,--let us so conceive of the Judge of all the earth, and every one must
present himself as a criminal before Him, and voluntarily prostrate and humble himself in deep
solicitude concerning; his absolution." CALVIN: Institutes, iii. 12.]

ALL MANKIND GUILTY; OR, EVERY MAN KNOWS MORE THAN HE PRACTISES.

ROMANS i. 24.--"When they knew God, they glorified him not as God."

The idea of God is the most important and comprehensive of all the ideas of which the human
mind is possessed. It is the foundation of religion; of all right doctrine, and all right conduct.
A correct intuition of it leads to correct religious theories and practice; while any erroneous
or defective view of the Supreme Being will pervade the whole province of religion, and exert
a most pernicious influence upon the entire character and conduct of men.

In proof of this, we have only to turn to the opening chapters of St. Paul's Epistle to the
Romans. Here we find a profound and accurate account of the process by which human nature becomes
corrupt, and runs its downward career of unbelief, vice, and sensuality. The apostle traces
back the horrible depravity of the heathen world, which he depicts with a pen as sharp as that
of Juvenal, but with none of Juvenal's bitterness and vitriolic sarcasm, to a distorted and
false conception of the being and attributes of God. He does not, for an instant, concede that
this distorted and false conception is founded in the original structure and constitution of
the human soul, and that this moral ignorance is necessary and inevitable. This mutilated idea
of the Supreme Being was not inlaid in the rational creature on the morning of creation, when
God said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." On the contrary, the apostle
affirms that the Creator originally gave all mankind, in the moral constitution of a rational
soul and in the works of creation and providence, the media to a correct idea of Himself, and
asserts, by implication, that if they had always employed these media they would have always
possessed this idea. For the invisible things of him, even his eternal power and Godhead, are
clearly seen from the creation of the world, being understood by the things that are made,
so that they are without excuse; because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as
God" (Rom. i. 18-21). From this, it appears that the mind of man has not kept what was committed
to its charge. It has not employed the moral instrumentalities, nor elicited the moral ideas,
with which it has been furnished. And, notice that the apostle does not confine this statement
to those who live within the pale of Revelation. His description is unlimited and universal.
The affirmation of the text, that "when man knew God he glorified him not as God," applies
to the Gentile as well as to the Jew. Nay, the primary reference of these statements was to
the pagan world. It was respecting the millions of idolaters in cultivated Greece and Rome,
and the millions of idolaters in barbarous India and China,--it was respecting the whole world
lying in wickedness, that St. Paul remarked: "The invisible things of God, even his eternal
power and Godhead, are clearly seen from the creation of the world down to the present moment,
being understood by the things that are made; so that they are without excuse."

When Napoleon was returning from his campaign in Egypt and Syria, he was seated one night upon
the deck of the vessel, under the open canopy of the heavens, surrounded by his captains and
generals. The conversation had taken a skeptical direction, and most of the party had combated
the doctrine of the Divine existence. Napoleon had sat silent and musing, apparently taking
no interest in the discussion, when suddenly raising his hand, and pointing at the crystalline
firmament crowded with its mildly shining planets and its keen glittering stars, he broke out,
in those startling tones that so often electrified a million of men: "Gentlemen, who made all
that?" The eternal power and Godhead of the Creator are impressed by the things that are made,
and these words of Napoleon to his atheistic captains silenced them. And the same impression
is made the world over. Go to-day into the heart of Africa, or into the centre of New Holland;
select the most imbruted pagan that can be found; take him out under a clear star-lit heaven
and ask him who made all that, and the idea of a Superior Being,--superior to all his fetishes
and idols,--possessing eternal power and supremacy ([Greek: theotaes]) immediately emerges
in his consciousness. The instant the missionary takes this lustful idolater away from the
circle of his idols, and brings him face to face with the heavens and the earth, as Napoleon
brought his captains, the constitutional idea dawns again, and the pagan trembles before the
unseen Power.[1]

But it will be objected that it is a very dim, and inadequate idea of the Deity that thus rises
in the pagan's mind, and that therefore the apostle's affirmation that he is "without excuse"
for being an idolater and a sensualist requires some qualification. This imbruted creature,
says the objector, does not possess the metaphysical conception of God as a Spirit, and of
all his various attributes and qualities, like the dweller in Christendom. How then can he
be brought in guilty before the same eternal bar, and be condemned to the same eternal punishment,
with the nominal Christian? The answer is plain, and decisive, and derivable out of the apostle's
own statements. In order to establish the guiltiness of a rational creature before the bar
of justice, it is not necessary to show that he has lived in the seventh heavens, and under
a blaze of moral intelligence like that of the archangel Gabriel. It is only necessary to show
that he has enjoyed some degree of moral light, and that he has not lived up to it. Any creature
who knows more than he practises is a guilty creature. If the light in the pagan's intellect
concerning God and the moral law, small though it be, is yet actually in advance of the inclination
and affections of his heart and the actions of his life, he deserves to be punished, like any
and every other creature, under the Divine government, of whom the same thing is true. Grades
of knowledge vary indefinitely. No two men upon the planet, no two men in Christendom, possess
precisely the same degree of moral intelligence. There are men walking the streets of this
city to-day, under the full light of the Christian revelation, whose notions respecting God
and law are exceedingly dim and inadequate; and there are others whose views are clear and
correct in a high degree. But there is not a person in this city, young or old, rich or poor,
ignorant or cultivated, in the purlieus of vice or the saloons of wealth, whose knowledge of
God is not in advance of his own character and conduct. Every man, whatever be the grade of
his intelligence, knows more than he puts in practice. Ask the young thief, in the subterranean
haunts of vice and crime, if he does not know that it is wicked to steal, and if he renders
an honest answer, it is in the affirmative. Ask the most besotted soul, immersed and petrified
in sensuality, if his course of life upon earth has been in accordance with his own knowledge
and conviction of what is right, and required by his Maker, and he will answer No, if he answers
truly. The grade of knowledge in the Christian land is almost infinitely various; but in every
instance the amount of knowledge is greater than the amount of virtue. Whether he knows little
or much, the man knows more than he performs; and therefore his mouth must be stopped in the
judgment, and he must plead guilty before God. He will not be condemned for not possessing
that ethereal vision of God possessed by the seraphim; but he will be condemned because his
perception of the holiness and the holy requirements of God was sufficient, at any moment,
to rebuke his disregard of them; because when he knew God in some degree, he glorified him
not as God up to that degree.

And this principle will be applied to the pagan world. It is so applied by the apostle Paul.
He himself concedes that the Gentile has not enjoyed all the advantages of the Jew, and argues
that the ungodly Jew will be visited with a more severe punishment than the ungodly Gentile.
But he expressly affirms that the pagan is under law, and knows that he is; that he shows the
work of the law that is written on the heart, in the operations of an accusing and condemning
conscience. But the knowledge of law involves the knowledge of God in an equal degree. Who
can feel himself amenable to a moral law, without at the same time thinking of its Author?
The law and the Lawgiver are inseparable. The one is the mirror and index of the other. If
the eye opens dimly upon the commandment, it opens dimly upon the Sovereign; if it perceives
eternal right and law with clear and celestial vision, it then looks directly into the face
of God. Law and God are correlative to each other; and just so far, consequently, as the heathen
understands the law that is written on the heart does he apprehend the Being who sitteth upon
the circle of the heavens, and who impinges Himself upon the consciousness of men. This being
so, it is plain that we can confront the ungodly pagan with the same statements with which
we confront the ungodly nominal Christian. We can tell him with positiveness, wherever we find
him, be it upon the burning sands of Africa or in the frozen home of the Esquimaux, that he
knows more than he puts in practice. We will concede to him that the quantum of his moral knowledge
is very stinted and meagre; but in the same breath we will remind him that small as it is,
he has not lived up to it; that he too has "come short"; that he too, knowing God in the dimmest,
faintest degree, has yet not glorified him as God in the slightest, faintest manner. The Bible
sends the ungodly and licentious pagan to hell, upon the same principle that it sends the ungodly
and licentious nominal Christian. It is the principle enunciated by our Lord Christ, the judge
of quick and dead, when he says, "He who knew his master's will [clearly], and did it not,
shall be beaten with many stripes; and he who knew not his master's will [clearly, but knew
it dimly,] and did it not, shall be beaten with few stripes." It is the just principle enunciated
by St. Paul, that "as many as have sinned without [written] law shall also perish without [written]
law."[2] And this is right and righteous; and let all the universe say, Amen.

The doctrine taught in the text, that no human creature, in any country or grade of civilization,
has ever glorified God to the extent of his knowledge of God, is very fertile in solemn and
startling inferences, to some of which we now invite attention.

1. In the first place, it follows from this affirmation of the apostle Paul, that the entire
heathen world is in a state of condemnation and perdition. He himself draws this inference,
in saying that in the judgment "every mouth must be stopped, and the whole world become guilty
before God."

The present and future condition of the heathen world is a subject that has always enlisted
the interest of two very different classes of men. The Church of God has pondered, and labored,
and prayed over this subject, and will continue to do so until the millennium. And the disbeliever
in Revelation has also turned his mind to the consideration of this black mass of ignorance
and misery, which welters upon the globe like a chaotic ocean; these teeming millions of barbarians
and savages who render the aspect of the world so sad and so dark. The Church, we need not
say, have accepted the Biblical theory, and have traced the lost condition of the pagan world,
as the apostle Paul does, to their sin and transgression. They have held that every pagan is
a rational being, and by virtue of this fact has known something of the moral law; and that
to the extent of the knowledge he has had, he is as guilty for the transgression of law, and
as really under its condemnation, as the dweller under the light of revelation and civilization.
They have maintained that every human creature has enjoyed sufficient light, in the workings
of natural reason and conscience, and in the impressions that are made by the glory and the
terror of the natural world above and around him, to render him guilty before the Everlasting
Judge. For this reason, the Church has denied that the pagan is an innocent creature, or that
he can stand in the judgment before the Searcher of hearts. For this reason, the Church has
believed the declaration of the apostle John, that "the whole world lieth in wickedness" (1
John v. 19), and has endeavored to obey the command of Him who came to redeem pagans as much
as nominal Christians, to go and preach the gospel to every creature, because every creature
is a lost creature.

But the disbeliever in Revelation adopts the theory of human innocency, and looks upon all
the wretchedness and ignorance of paganism, as he looks upon suffering, decay, and death, in
the vegetable and animal worlds. Temporary evil is the necessary condition, he asserts, of
all finite existence; and as decay and death in the vegetable and animal worlds only result
in a more luxuriant vegetation, and an increased multiplication of living creatures, so the
evil and woe of the hundreds of generations, and the millions of individuals, during the sixty
centuries that have elapsed since the origin of man, will all of it minister to the ultimate
and everlasting weal of the entire race. There is no need therefore, he affirms, of endeavoring
to save such feeble and ignorant beings from judicial condemnation and eternal penalty. Such
finiteness and helplessness cannot be put into relations to such an awful attribute as the
eternal nemesis of God. Can it be,--he asks,--that the millions upon millions that have been
born, lived their brief hour, enjoyed their little joys and suffered their sharp sorrows, and
then dropped into "the dark backward and abysm of time," have really been guilty creatures,
and have gone down to an endless hell?

But what does all this reasoning and querying imply? Will the objector really take the position
and stand to it, that the pagan man is not a rational and responsible creature? that he does
not possess sufficient knowledge of moral truth, to justify his being brought to the bar of
judgment? Will he say that the population that knew enough to build the pyramids did not know
enough to break the law of God? Will he affirm that the civilization of Babylon and Nineveh,
of Greece and Rome, did not contain within it enough of moral intelligence to constitute a
foundation for rewards and punishments? Will he tell us that the people of Sodom and Gomorrah
stood upon the same plane with the brutes that perish, and the trees of the field that rot
and die, having no idea of God, knowing nothing of the distinction between right and wrong,
and never feeling the pains of an accusing conscience? Will he maintain that the populations
of India, in the midst of whom one of the most subtile and ingenious systems of pantheism has
sprung up with the luxuriance and involutions of one of their own jungles, and has enervated
the whole religious sentiment of the Hindoo race as opium has enervated their physical frame,--will
he maintain that such an untiring and persistent mental activity as this is incapable of apprehending
the first principles of ethics and natural religion, which, in comparison with the complicated
and obscure ratiocinations of Boodhism, are clear as water, and lucid as atmospheric air? In
other connections, this theorist does not speak in this style. In other connections, and for
the purpose of exaggerating natural religion and disparaging revealed, he enlarges upon the
dignity of man, of every man, and eulogizes the power of reason which so exalts him in the
scale of being. It is from that very class of theorizers who deny that the heathen are in danger
of eternal perdition, and who represent the whole missionary enterprise as a work of supererogation,
that we receive the most extravagant accounts of the natural powers and gifts of man. If you
assert that the pagan man has had no talents at all committed to him, and can prove your assertion,
and will stand by it, you are consistent in denying that he can be summoned to the bar of God,
and be tried for eternal life or death. But if you concede that he has had one talent, or two
talents, committed to his charge; and still more, if you exaggerate his gifts and endow him
with five or ten talents, then it is impossible for you to save him from the judgment to come,
except you can prove a perfect administration and use of the trust.[3]

2. In the second place, it follows from the doctrine of the text, that the degraded and brutalized
population of large cities is in a state of condemnation and perdition.

There are heathen near our own doors whose religious condition is as sad, and hopeless, as
that of the heathen of Patagonia or New Zealand. The vice and crime that nestles and riots
in the large cities of Christendom has become a common theme, and has lost much of its interest
for the worldly mind by losing its novelty. The manners and way of life of the outcast population
of London and Paris have been depicted by the novelist, and wakened a momentary emotion in
the readers of fiction. But the reality is stern and dreadful, beyond imagination or conception.
There is in the cess-pools of the great capitals of Christendom a mass of human creatures who
are born, who live, and who die, in moral putrefaction. Their existence is a continued career
of sin and woe. Body and soul, mind and heart, are given up to earth, to sense, to corruption.
They emerge for a brief season into the light of day, run their swift and fiery career of sin,
and then disappear. Dante, in that wonderful Vision which embodies so much of true ethics and
theology, represents the wrathful and gloomy class as sinking down under the miry waters and
continuing to breathe in a convulsive, suffocating manner, sending up bubbles to the surface,
that mark the place where they are drawing out their lingering existence.[4] Something like
this, is the wretched life of a vicious population. As we look in upon the fermenting mass,
the only signs of life that meet our view indicate that the life is feverish, spasmodic, and
suffocating. The bubbles rising to the dark and turbid surface reveal that it is a life in death.

But this, too, is the result of sin. Take the atoms one by one that constitute this mass of
pollution and misery, and you will find that each one of them is a self-moving and an unforced
will. Not one of these millions of individuals has been necessitated by Almighty God, or by
any of God's arrangements, to do wrong. Each one of them is a moral agent, equally with you
and me. Each one of them is self-willed and self-determined in sin. He does not like to retain
religious truth in his mind, or to obey it in his heart. Go into the lowest haunt of vice and
select out the most imbruted person there; bring to his remembrance that class of truths with
which he is already acquainted by virtue of his rational nature, and add to them that other
class of truths taught in Revelation, and you will find that he is predetermined against them.
He takes sides, with all the depth and intensity of his being, with that sinfulness which is
common to man, and which it is the aim of both ethics and the gospel to remove. This vicious
and imbruted man loves the sin which is forbidden, more than he loves the holiness that is
commanded. He inclines to the sin which so easily besets him, precisely as you and I incline
to the bosom-sin which so easily besets us. We grant that the temptations that assail him are
very powerful; but are not some of the temptations that beset you and me very powerful? We
grant that this wretched slave of vice and pollution cannot break off his sins by righteousness,
without the renewing and assisting grace of God; but neither can you or I. It is the action
of his own will that has made him a slave. He loves his chains and his bondage, even as you
and I naturally love ours; and this proves that his moral corruption, though assuming an outwardly
more repulsive form than ours, is yet the same thing in principle.

But there is no more convincing proof of the position, that the degraded creature of whom we
are speaking is a self-deciding and unforced sinner, than the fact that he resists efforts
to reclaim him. Ask these faithful and benevolent missionaries who go down into these dens
of vice and pollution, to pour more light into the mind, and to induce these outcasts to leave
their drunkenness and their debauchery,--ask them if they find that human nature is any different
there from what it is elsewhere, so far as yielding to the claims of God and law is concerned.
Do they tell you that they are uniformly successful in inducing these sinners to leave their
sins? that they never find any self-will, any determined opposition to the holy law of purity,
any preference of a life of licence with its woes here upon earth and hereafter in hell, to
a life of self-denial with its joys eternal? On the contrary, they testify that the old maxim
upon which so many millions of the human family have acted: "Enjoy the present and jump the
life to come," is the rule for this mass of population, of whom so very few can be persuaded
to leave their cups and their orgies. Like the people of Israel, when expostulated with by
the prophet Jeremiah for their idolatry and pollution, the majority of the degraded population
of whom we are speaking, when endeavors have been made to reclaim them, have said to the philanthropist
and the missionary: "There is no hope: no; for I have loved strangers, and after them I will
go" (Jer. ii. 25). There is not a single individual of them all who does not love the sin that
is destroying him, more than he loves the holiness that would save him. Notwithstanding all
the horrible accompaniments of sin--the filth, the disease, the poverty, the sickness, the
pain of both body and mind,--the wretched creature prefers to enjoy the pleasures of sin for
a season, rather than come out and separate himself from the unclean thing, and begin that
holy warfare and obedience to which his God and his Saviour invite him. This, we repeat, proves
that the sin is not forced upon this creature. For if he hated his sin, nay if he felt weary
and heavy laden in the least degree because of it, he might leave it. There is a free grace,
and a proffered assistance of the Holy Ghost, of which he might avail himself at any moment.
Had he the feeling of the weary and penitent prodigal, the same father's house is ever open
for his return; and the same father seeing him on his return, though still a great way off,
would run and fall upon his neck and kiss him. But the heart is hard, and the spirit is utterly
selfish, and the will is perverse and determined, and therefore the natural knowledge of God
and his law which this sinner possesses by his very constitution, and the added knowledge which
his birth in a Christian land and the efforts of benevolent Christians have imparted to him,
are not strong enough to overcome his inclination, and his preference, and induce him to break
off his sins by righteousness.

3. In the third and last place, it follows from this doctrine of the apostle Paul, as thus
unfolded, that that portion of the enlightened and cultivated population of Christian lands
who have not believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and repented of sin, are in the deepest state
of condemnation and perdition.

"Behold thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, and knowest
his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in
darkness: an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes: which hast the form of knowledge,
and of the truth, in the law: thou therefore that teachest another teachest thou not thyself?
thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonored thou God?"

If it be true that the pagan knows more of God and the moral law than he has ever put in practice;
if it be true that the imbruted child of vice and pollution knows more of God and the moral
law than he has ever put in practice; how much more fearfully true is it that the dweller in
a Christian home, the visitant of the house of God, the possessor of the written Word, the
listener to prayer and oftentimes the subject of it, possesses an amount of knowledge respecting
his origin, his duty, and his destiny, that infinitely outruns his character and his conduct.
If eternal punishment will come down upon those classes of mankind who know but comparatively
little, because they have been unfaithful in that which is least, surely eternal punishment
will come down upon that more favored class who know comparatively much, because they have
been unfaithful in that which is much. "If these things are done in the green tree, what shall
be done in the dry?"

The great charge that will rest against the creature when he stands before the final bar will
be, that "when he knew God, he glorified Him not as God." And this will rest heaviest against
those whose knowledge was the clearest. It is a great prerogative to be able to know the infinite
and glorious Creator; but it brings with it a most solemn responsibility. That blessed Being,
of right, challenges the homage and obedience of His creature. What he asks of the angel, that
he asks of man; that he should glorify God in his body and spirit which are His, and should
thereby enjoy God forever and forever. This is the condemnation, under which man, and especially
enlightened and cultivated man, rests, that while he knows God he neither glorifies Him nor
enjoys Him. Our Redeemer saw this with all the clearness of the Divine Mind; and to deliver
the creature from the dreadful guilt, of his self-idolatry, of his disposition to worship and
love the creature more than the Creator, He became incarnate, suffered and died. It cannot
be a small crime, that necessitated, such an apparatus of atonement and Divine influences as
that of Christ and His redemption. Estimate the guilt of coming short of the glory of God,
which is the same as the guilt of idolatry and creature-worship, by the nature of the provision
that has been made to cancel it. If you do not actually feel that this crime is great, then
argue yourself towards a juster view, by the consideration that it cost the blood of Christ
to expiate it. If you do not actually feel that the guilt is great, then argue yourself towards
a juster view, by the reflection that you have known God to be supremely great, supremely good,
and supremely excellent, and yet you have never, in a single feeling of your heart, or a single
thought of your mind, or a single purpose of your will, honored Him. It is honor, reverence,
worship, and love that He requires. These you have never rendered; and there is an infinity
of guilt in the fact. That guilt will be forgiven for Christ's sake, if you ask for forgiveness.
But if you do not ask, then it will stand recorded against you for eternal ages: "When he,
a rational and immortal creature, knew God, he glorified Him not as God."

[Footnote 1: The early Fathers, in their defence of the Christian doctrine of one God, against
the objections of the pagan advocate of the popular mythologies, contend that the better pagan
writers themselves agree with the new religion, in teaching that there is one Supreme Being.
LACTANTIUS (Institutiones i. 5), after quoting the Orphic poets, Hesiod, Virgil, and Ovid,
in proof that the heathen poets taught the unity of the Supreme Deity, proceeds to show that
the better pagan philosophers, also, agree with them in this. "Aristotle," he says, "although
he disagrees with himself, and says many things that are self-contradictory, yet testifies
that one Supreme Mind rules over the world. Plato, who is regarded as the wisest philosopher
of them all, plainly and openly defends the doctrine of a divine monarchy, and denominates
the Supreme Being; not ether, nor reason, nor nature, but, as he is, God; and asserts that
by him this perfect and admirable world was made. And Cicero follows Plato, frequently confessing
the Deity, and calls him the Supreme Being, in his treatise on the Laws." TERTULLIAN (De Test.
An. c. 1; Adv. Marc. i. 10; Ad. Scap. c. 2; Apol. c. 17), than whom no one of the Christian
Fathers was more vehemently opposed to the philosophizing of the schools, earnestly contends
that the doctrine of the unity of God is constitutional to the human mind. "God," he says,
"proves himself to be God, and the one only God, by the very fact that He is known to all nations;
for the existence of any other deity than He would first have to be demonstrated. The God of
the Jews is the one whom the souls of men call their God. We worship one God, the one whom
ye all naturally know, at whose lightnings and thunders ye tremble, at whose benefits ye rejoice.
Will ye that we prove the Divine existence by the witness of the soul itself, which, although
confined by the prison of the body, although circumscribed by bad training, although enervated
by lusts and passions, although made the servant of false gods, yet when it recovers itself
as from a surfeit, as from a slumber, as from some infirmity, and is in its proper condition
of soundness, calls God by this name only, because it is the proper name of the true God. 'Great
God,' 'good God,' and 'God grant' [deus, not dii], are words in every mouth. The soul also
witnesses that He is its judge, when it says, 'God sees,' 'I commend to God,' 'God shall recompense
me.' O testimony of a soul naturally Christian [i.e., monotheistic]! Finally, in pronouncing
these words, it looks not to the Roman capitol, but to heaven; for it knows the dwelling-place
of the true God: from Him and from thence it descended." CALVIN (Inst. i. 10) seems to have
had these statements in his eye, in the following remarks: "In almost all ages, religion has
been generally corrupted. It is true, indeed, that the name of one Supreme God has been universally
known and celebrated. For those who used to worship a multitude of deities, whenever they spake
according to the genuine sense of nature, used simply the name of God in the singular number,
as though they were contented with one God. And this was wisely remarked by Justin Martyr,
who for this purpose wrote a book 'On the Monarchy of God,' in which he demonstrates, from
numerous testimonies, that the unity of God is a principle universally impressed on the hearts
of men. Tertullian (De Idololatria) also proves the same point, from the common phraseology.
But since all men, without exception, have become vain in their understandings, all their natural
perception of the Divine Unity has only served to render them inexcusable." In consonance with
these views, the Presbyterian CONFESSION OF FAITH (ch. i.) affirms that "the light of nature,
and the works of creation and providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power
of God, as to leave men inexcusable."]

[Footnote 2: The word [Greek: apolountai], in Rom. ii. 12, is opposed to the [Greek: sotaeria]
spoken of in Rom. i. 16, and therefore signifies eternal perdition, as that signifies eternal
salvation.-Those theorists who reject revealed religion, and remand man back to the first principles
of ethics and morality as the only religion that he needs, send him to a tribunal that damns
him. "Tell me," says St. Paul, "ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law?
The law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live by them. Circumcision verily
profiteth if thou keep the law; but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made
uncircumcision." If man had been true to all the principles and precepts of natural religion,
it would indeed be religion enough for him. But he has not been thus true. The entire list
of vices and sins recited by St. Paul, in the first chapter of Romans, is as contrary to natural
religion, as it is to revealed. And it is precisely because the pagan world has not obeyed
the principles of natural religion, and is under a curse and a bondage therefor, that it is
in perishing need of the truths of revealed religion. Little do those know what they are saying,
when they propose to find a salvation for the pagan in the mere light of natural reason and
conscience. What pagan has ever realized the truths of natural conscience, in his inward character
and his outward life? What pagan is there in all the generations that will not be found guilty
before the bar of natural religion? What heathen will not need an atonement, for his failure
to live up even to the light of nature? Nay, what is the entire sacrificial cultus of heathenism,
but a confession that the whole heathen world finds and feels itself to be guilty at the bar
of natural reason and conscience? The accusing voice within them wakes their forebodings and
fearful looking-for of Divine judgment, and they endeavor to propitiate the offended Power
by their offerings and sacrifices.]

[Footnote 3: Infidelity is constantly changing its ground. In the 18th century, the skeptic
very generally took the position of Lord Herbert of Cherbury, and maintained that the light
of reason is very clear, and is adequate to all the religious needs of the soul. In the 19th
century, he is now passing to the other extreme, and contending that man is kindred to the
ape, and within the sphere of paganism does not possess sufficient moral intelligence to constitute
him responsible. Like Luther's drunken beggar on horseback, the opponent of Revelation sways
from the position that man is a god, to the position that he is a chimpanzee.]

[Footnote 4: DANTE: Inferno, vii.

In the opening of the most logical and systematic treatise in the New Testament, the Epistle
to the Romans, the apostle Paul enters upon a line of argument to demonstrate the ill-desert
of every human creature without exception. In order to this, he shows that no excuse can be
urged upon the ground of moral ignorance. He explicitly teaches that the pagan knows that there
is one Supreme God (Rom. i. 20); that He is a spirit (Rom. i. 23); that He is holy and sin-hating
(Rom. i. 18); that He is worthy to be worshipped (Rom. i. 21, 25); and that men ought to be
thankful for His benefits (Rom. i. 21). He affirms that the heathen knows that an idol is a
lie (Rom. i. 25); that licentiousness is a sin (Rom. i. 26, 32); that envy, malice, and deceit
are wicked (Rom. i. 29, 32); and that those who practise such sins deserve eternal punishment
(Rom. i. 32).

In these teachings and assertions, the apostle has attributed no small amount and degree of
moral knowledge to man as man,--to man outside of Revelation, as well as under its shining
light. The question very naturally arises: How comes it to pass that this knowledge which Divine
inspiration postulates, and affirms to be innate and constitutional to the human mind, should
become so vitiated? The majority of mankind are idolaters and polytheists, and have been for
thousands of years. Can it be that the truth that there is only one God is native to the human
spirit, and that the pagan "knows" this God? The majority of men are earthly and sensual, and
have been for thousands of years. Can it be that there is a moral law written upon their hearts
forbidding such carnality, and enjoining purity and holiness?

Some theorizers argue that because the pagan man has not obeyed the law, therefore he does
not know the law; and that because he has not revered and worshipped the one Supreme Deity,
therefore he does not possess the idea of any such Being. They look out upon the heathen populations
and see them bowing down to stocks and stones, and witness their immersion in the abominations
of heathenism, and conclude that these millions of human beings really know no better, and
that therefore it is unjust to hold them responsible for their polytheism and their moral corruption.
But why do they confine this species of reasoning to the pagan world? Why do they not bring
it into nominal Christendom, and apply it there? Why does not this theorist go into the midst
of European civilization, into the heart of London or Paris, and gauge the moral knowledge
of the sensualist by the moral character of the sensualist? Why does he not tell us that because
this civilized man acts no better, therefore he knows no better? Why does he not maintain that
because this voluptuary breaks all the commandments in the decalogue, therefore he must be
ignorant of all the commandments in the decalogue? that because he neither fears nor loves
the one only God, therefore he does not know that there is any such Being?

It will never do to estimate man's moral knowledge by man's moral character. He knows more
than he practises. And there is not so much difference in this particular between some men
in nominal Christendom, and some men in Heathendom, as is sometimes imagined. The moral knowledge
of those who lie in the lower strata of Christian civilization, and those who lie in the higher
strata of Paganism, is probably not so very far apart. Place the imbruted outcasts of our metropolitan
population beside the Indian hunter, with his belief in the Great Spirit, and his worship without
images or pictorial representations;[1] beside the stalwart Mandingo of the high table-lands
of Central Africa, with his active and enterprising spirit, carrying on manufactures and trade
with all the keenness of any civilized worldling; beside the native merchants and lawyers of
Calcutta, who still cling to their ancestral Boodhism, or else substitute French infidelity
in its place; place the lowest of the highest beside the highest of the lowest, and tell us
if the difference is so very marked. Sin, like holiness, is a mighty leveler. The "dislike
to retain God" in the consciousness, the aversion of the heart towards the purity of the moral
law, vitiates the native perceptions alike in Christendom and Paganism.

The theory that the pagan is possessed of such an amount and degree of moral knowledge as has
been specified has awakened some apprehension in the minds of some Christian theologians, and
has led them, unintentionally to foster the opposite theory, which, if strictly adhered, to,
would lift off all responsibility from the pagan world, would bring them in innocent at the
bar of God, and would render the whole enterprise of Christian missions a superfluity and an
absurdity. Their motive has been good. They have feared to attribute any degree of accurate
knowledge of God and the moral law, to the pagan world, lest they should thereby conflict with
the doctrine of total depravity. They have mistakenly supposed, that if they should concede
to every man, by virtue of his moral constitution, some correct apprehensions of ethics and
natural religion, it would follow that there is some native goodness in him. But light in the
intellect is very different from life in the heart. It is one thing to know the law of God,
and quite another thing to be conformed to it. Even if we should concede to the degraded pagan,
or the degraded dweller in the haunts of vice in Christian lands, all the intellectual knowledge
of God and the moral law that is possessed by the ruined archangel himself, we should not be
adding a particle to his moral character or his moral excellence. There is nothing of a holy
quality in the mere intellectual perception that there is one Supreme Deity, and that He has
issued a pure and holy law for the guidance of all rational beings. The mere doctrine of the
Divine Unity will save no man. "Thou believest," says St. James, "that there is one God; thou
doest well, the devils also believe and tremble." Satan himself is a monotheist, and knows
very clearly all the commandments of God; but his heart and will are in demoniacal antagonism
with them. And so it is, only in a lower degree, in the instance of the pagan, and of the natural
man, in every age, and in every clime. He knows more than he practises. This intellectual perception
therefore, this inborn constitutional apprehension, instead of lifting up man into a higher
and more favorable position before the eternal bar, casts him down to perdition. If he knew
nothing at all of his Maker and his duty, he could not be held responsible, and could, not
be summoned to judgment. As St. Paul affirms: "Where there is no law there is no transgression."
But if, when he knew God in some degree, he glorified him not as God to that degree; and if,
when the moral law was written upon the heart he went counter to its requirements, and heard
the accusing voice of his own conscience; then his mouth must be stopped, and he must become
guilty before his Judge, like any and every other disobedient creature.

It is this serious and damning fact in the history of man upon the globe, that St. Paul brings
to view, in the passage which we have selected as the foundation of this discourse. He accounts
for all the idolatry and sensuality, all the darkness and vain imaginations of paganism, by
referring to the aversion of the natural heart towards the one only holy God. "Men," he says,--these
pagan men--"did not like to retain God in their knowledge." The primary difficulty was in their
affections, and not in their understandings. They knew too much for their own comfort in sin.
The contrast between the Divine purity that was mirrored in their conscience, and the sinfulness
that was wrought into their heart and will, rendered this inborn constitutional idea of God
a very painful one. It was a fire in the bones. If the Psalmist, a renewed man, yet not entirely
free from human corruption, could say: "I thought of God and was troubled," much more must
the totally depraved man of paganism be filled with terror when, in the thoughts of his heart,
in the hour when the accusing conscience was at work, he brought to mind the one great God
of gods whom he did not glorify, and whom he had offended. It was no wonder, therefore, that
he did not like to retain the idea of such a Being in his consciousness, and that he adopted
all possible expedients to get rid of it. The apostle informs us that the pagan actually called
in his imagination to his aid, in order to extirpate, if possible, all his native and rational
ideas and convictions upon religious subjects. He invented idolatry, and all those "gay religions
full of pomp and gold," in order to blunt the edge of that sharp spiritual conception of God
which was continually cutting and lacerating his wicked and sensual heart. Hiding himself amidst
the columns of his idolatrous temples, and under the smoke of his idolatrous incense, he thought
like Adam to escape from the view and inspection of that Infinite One who, from the creation
of the world downward, makes known to all men his eternal power and godhead; who, as St. Paul
taught the philosophers of Athens, is not far from anyone of his rational creatures (Acts xvii.
(Acts xiv. 16, 17).

The first step in the process of mutilating the original idea of God, as a unity and an unseen
Spirit, is seen in those pantheistic religions which lie behind all the mythologies of the
ancient world, like a nebulous vapor out of which the more distinct idols and images of paganism
are struggling. Here the notion of the Divine unity is still preserved; but the Divine personality
and holiness are lost. God becomes a vague impersonal Power, with no moral qualities, and no
religious attributes; and it is difficult to say which is worst in its moral influence, this
pantheism which while retaining the doctrine of the Divine unity yet denudes the Deity of all
that renders him an object of either love or reverence, or the grosser idolatries that succeeded
it. For man cannot love, with all his mind and heart and soul and strength, a vast impersonal
force working blindly through infinite space and everlasting time.

And the second and last stage in this process of vitiating the true idea of God appears in
that polytheism in the midst of which St. Paul lived, and labored, and preached, and died;
in that seductive and beautiful paganism, that classical idolatry, which still addresses the
human taste in such a fascinating manner, in the Venus de Medici, and the Apollo Belvidere.
The idea of the unity of God is now mangled and cut up into the "gods many" and the "lords
many," into the thirty thousand divinities of the pagan pantheon. This completes the process.
God now gives his guilty creature over to these vain imaginations of naturalism, materialism,
and idolatry, and to an increasingly darkening mind, until in the lowest forms of heathenism
he so distorts and suppresses the concreated idea of the Deity that some speculatists assert
that it does not belong to his constitution, and that his Maker never endowed him with it.
How is the gold become dim! How is the most fine gold changed!

But it will be objected that all this lies in the past. This is the account of a process that
has required centuries, yea millenniums, to bring about. A hundred generations have been engaged
in transmuting the monotheism with which the human race started, into the pantheism and polytheism
in which the great majority of it is now involved. How do you establish the guilt of those
at the end of the line? How can you charge upon the present generation of pagans the same culpability
that Paul imputed to their ancestors eighteen centuries ago, and that Noah the preacher of
righteousness denounced, upon the antediluvian pagan? As the deteriorating process advances,
does not the guilt diminish? and now, in these ends of the ages, and in these dark habitations
of cruelty, has not the culpability run down to a minimum, which God in the day of judgment
will "wink at?"

We answer No: Because the structure of the human mind is precisely the same that it was when
the Sodomites held down the truth in unrighteousness, and the Roman populace turned up their
thumbs that they might see the last drops of blood ebb slowly from the red gash in the dying
gladiator's side. Man, in his deepest degradation, in his most hardened depravity, is still
a rational intelligence; and though he should continue to sin on indefinitely, through cycles
of time as long as those of geology, he cannot unmake himself; he cannot unmould his immortal
essence, and absolutely eradicate all his moral ideas. Paganism itself has its fluctuations
of moral knowledge. The early Roman, in the days of Numa, was highly ethical in his views of
the Deity, and his conceptions of moral law. Varro informs us that for a period of one hundred
and seventy years the Romans worshipped their gods without any images;[2] and Sallust denominates
these pristine Romans "religiosissimi mortales." And how often does the missionary discover
a tribe or a race, whose moral intelligence is higher than that of the average of paganism.
Nay, the same race, or tribe, passes from one phase of polytheism to another; in one instance
exhibiting many of the elements and truths of natural religion, and in another almost entirely
suppressing them. These facts prove that the pagan man is under supervision; that he is under
the righteous despotism of moral ideas and convictions; that God is not far from him; that
he lives and moves and has his being in his Maker; and that God does not leave himself without
witness in his constitutional structure. Therefore it is, that this sea of rational intelligence
thus surges and sways in the masses of paganism; sometimes dashing the creature up the heights,
and sometimes sending him down into the depths.

But while this subject has this general application to mankind outside of Revelation; while
it throws so much light upon the question of the heathens' responsibility and guilt; while
it tends to deepen our interest in the work of Christian missions, and to stimulate us to obey
our Redeemer's command to go and preach the gospel to them, in order to save them from the
wrath of God which abideth upon them as it does upon ourselves; while this subject has these
profound and far-reaching applications, it also presses with sharpness and energy upon the
case, and the position, of millions of men in Christendom. And to this more particular aspect
of the theme, we ask attention for a moment.

This same process of corruption, and vitiation of a correct knowledge of God, which we have
seen to go on upon a large scale in the instance of the heathen world, also often goes on in
the instance of a single individual under the light of Revelation itself. Have you never known
a person to have been well educated in childhood and youth respecting the character and government
of God, and yet in middle life and old age to have altered and corrupted all his early and
accurate apprehensions, by the gradual adoption of contrary views and sentiments? In his childhood,
and youth, he believed that God distinguishes between the righteous and the wicked, that he
rewards the one and punishes the other, and hence he cherished a salutary fear of his Maker
that agreed well with the dictates of his unsophisticated reason, and the teachings of nature
and revelation. But when, he became a man, he put away these childish things, in a far different
sense from that of the Apostle. As the years rolled, along, he succeeded, by a career of worldliness
and of sensuality, in expelling this stock of religious knowledge, this right way of conceiving
of God, from his mind, and now at the close of life and upon the very brink of eternity and
of doom, this very same person is as unbelieving respecting the moral attributes of Jehovah,
and as unfearing with regard to them, as if the entire experience and creed of his childhood
and youth were a delusion and a lie. This rational and immortal creature in the morning of
his existence looked up into the clear sky with reverence, being impressed by the eternal power
and godhead that are there, and when he had committed a sin he felt remorseful and guilty;
but the very same person now sins recklessly and with flinty hardness of heart, casts sullen
or scowling glances upward, and says: "There is no God." Compare the Edward Gibbon whose childhood
expanded under the teachings of a beloved Christian matron trained in the school of the devout
William Law, and whose youth exhibited unwonted religions sensibility,--compare this Edward
Gibbon with the Edward Gibbon whose manhood was saturated with utter unbelief, and whose departure
into the dread hereafter was, in his own phrase, "a leap in the dark." Compare the Aaron Burr
whose blood was deduced from one of the most saintly lineages in the history of the American
church, and all of whose early life was embosomed in ancestral piety,--compare this Aaron Burr
with the Aaron Burr whose middle life and prolonged old age was unimpressible as marble to
all religious ideas and influences. In both of these instances, it was the aversion of the
heart that for a season (not for eternity, be it remembered) quenched out the light in the
head. These men, like the pagan of whom St. Paul speaks, did not like to retain a holy God
in their knowledge, and He gave them over to a reprobate mind.

These fluctuations and changes in doctrinal belief, both in the general and the individual
mind, furnish materials for deep reflection by both the philosopher and the Christian; and
such an one will often be led to notice the exact parallel and similarity there is between
religious deterioration in races, and religious deterioration in individuals. The dislike to
retain a knowledge already furnished, because it is painful, because it rebukes worldliness
and sin, is that which ruins both mankind in general, and the man in particular. Were the heart
only conformed to the truth, the truth never would be corrupted, never would be even temporarily
darkened in the human soul. Should the pagan, himself, actually obey the dictates of his own
reason and conscience, he would find the light that was in him growing still clearer and brighter.
God himself, the author of his rational mind, and the Light that lighteth every man that cometh
into the world, would reward him for his obedience by granting him yet more knowledge. We cannot
say in what particular mode the Divine providence would bring it about, but it is as certain
as that God lives, that if the pagan world should act up to the degree of light which they
enjoy, they would be conducted ultimately to the truth as it is in Jesus, and would be saved
by the Redeemer of the world. The instance of the Roman centurion Cornelius is a case in point.
This was a thoughtful and serious pagan. It is indeed very probable that his military residence
in Palestine had cleared up, to some degree, his natural intuitions of moral truth; but we
know that he was ignorant of the way of salvation through Christ, from the fact that the apostle
Peter was instructed in a vision to go and preach it unto him. The sincere endeavor of this
Gentile, this then pagan in reference to Christianity, to improve the little knowledge which
he had, met with the Divine approbation, and was crowned with a saving acquaintance with the
redemption that is in Christ Jesus. The light shines in the darkness that comprehends it not.
Almost without an exception, so far as the human eye can see, the unevangelized world holds
the truth in unrighteousness, and does not like to retain the idea of a holy God, and a holy
law, in its knowledge. Therefore the knowledge continually diminishes; the light of natural
reason and conscience grows dimmer and dimmer; and the soul sinks down in the mire of sin and
sensuality, apparently devoid of all the higher ideas of God, and law, and immortal life.

We have thus considered the truth which St. Paul teaches in the text, that the ultimate source
of all human error is in the character of the human heart. Mankind do not like to retain God
in their knowledge, and therefore they come to possess a reprobate mind. The origin of idolatry,
and of infidelity, is not in the original constitution with which the Creator endowed the creature,
but in that evil heart of unbelief by which he departed from the living God. Sinful man shapes
his creed in accordance with his wishes, and not in accordance with the unbiased decisions
of his reason and conscience. He does not like to think of a holy God, and therefore he denies
that God is holy. He does not like to think of the eternal punishment of sin, and therefore
he denies that punishment is eternal. He does not like to be pardoned through the substituted
sufferings of the Son of God, and therefore he denies the doctrine of atonement. He does not
like the truth that man is so totally alienated from God that he needs to be renewed in the
spirit of his mind by the Holy Ghost, and therefore he denies the doctrines of depravity and
regeneration. Run through the creed which the Church has lived by and died by, and you will
discover that the only obstacle to its reception is the aversion of the human heart. It is
a rational creed in all its parts and combinations. It has outlived the collisions and conflicts
of a hundred schools of infidelity that have had their brief day, and died with their devotees.
A hundred systems of philosophy falsely so called have come and gone, but the one old religion
of the patriarchs, and the prophets, and the apostles, holds on its way through the centuries,
conquering and to conquer. Can it be that sheer imposture and error have such a tenacious vitality
as this? If reason is upon the side of infidelity, why does not infidelity remain one and the
same unchanging thing, like Christianity, from age to age, and subdue all men unto it? If Christianity
is a delusion and a lie, why does it not die out, and disappear? The difficulty is not upon
the side of the human reason, but of the human heart. Skeptical men do not like the religion
of the New Testament, these doctrines of sin and grace, and therefore they shape their creed
by their sympathies and antipathies; by what they wish to have true; by their heart rather
than by their head. As the Founder of Christianity said to the Jews, so he says to every man
who rejects His doctrine of grace and redemption: "Ye will not come unto me that ye might have
life." It is an inclination of the will, and not a conviction of the reason, that prevents
the reception of the Christian religion.

Among the many reflections that are suggested by this subject and its discussion, our limits
permit only the following:

1. It betokens deep wickedness, in any man, to change the truth of God into a lie,--to substitute
a false theory in religion for the true one. There is no form of moral evil that is more hateful
in the sight of Infinite Truth, than that intellectual depravity which does not like to retain
a holy God in its knowledge, and therefore mutilates the very idea of the Deity, and attempts
to make him other than he is. There is no sinner that will be visited with a heavier vengeance
than that cool and calculating man, who, because he dislikes the unyielding purity of the moral
law, and the awful sanctions by which it is accompanied, deliberately alters it to suit his
wishes and his self-indulgence. If a person is tempted and falls into sin, and yet does not
change his religious creed in order to escape the reproaches of conscience and the fear of
retribution, there is hope that the orthodoxy of his head may result, by God's blessing upon
his own truth, in sorrow for the sin and a forsaking thereof. A man, for instance, who amidst
all his temptations and transgressions still retains the truth taught him from the Scriptures,
at his mother's knees, that a finally impenitent sinner will go down to eternal torment, feels
a powerful check upon his passions, and is often kept from outward and actual transgressions
by his creed. But if he deliberately, and by an act of will, says in his heart: "There is no
hell;" if he substitutes for the theory that renders the commission of sin dangerous and fearful,
a theory that relieves it from all danger and all fear, there is no hope that he will ever
cease from sinning. On the contrary, having brought his head into harmony with his heart; having
adjusted his theory to his practice; having shaped his creed by his passions; having changed
the truth of God into a lie; he then plunges into sin with an abandonment and a momentum that
is awful. In the phrase of the prophet, he "draws iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as
it were with a cart-rope."

It is here that we see the deep guilt of those, who, by false theories of God and man and law
and penalty, tempt the young or the old to their eternal destruction. It is sad and fearful,
when the weak physical nature is plied with all the enticements of earth and sense; but it
is yet sadder and more fearful, when the intellectual nature is sought to be perverted and
ensnared by specious theories that annihilate the distinction between virtue and vice, that
take away all holy fear of God, and reverence for His law, that represent the everlasting future
either as an everlasting elysium for all, or else as an eternal sleep. The demoralization,
in this instance, is central and radical. It is in the brain, in the very understanding itself.
If the foundations themselves of morals and religion are destroyed, what can be done for the
salvation of the creature? A heavy woe is denounced against any and every one who tempts a
fellow-being. Temptation implies malice. It is Satanic. It betokens a desire to ruin an immortal
spirit. When therefore the siren would allure a human creature from the path of virtue, the
inspiration of God utters a deep and bitter curse against her. But when the cold-blooded Mephistopheles
endeavors to sophisticate the reason, to debauch the judgment, to sear the conscience; when
the temptation is addressed to the intellect, and the desire of the tempter is to overthrow
the entire religious creed of a human being,--perhaps a youth just entering upon that hazardous
enterprise of life in which he needs every jot and tittle of eternal truth to guide and protect
him,--when the enticement assumes this purely mental form and aspect, it betokens the most
malignant and heaven-daring guilt in the tempter. And we may be certain that the retribution
that will be meted out to it, by Him who is true and The Truth; who abhors all falsehood and
all lies with an infinite intensity; will be terrible beyond conception. "Woe unto you ye blind
guides!

2. In the second place, we perceive, in the light of this subject, the great danger of not
reducing religious truth to practice. There are two fatal hazards in not obeying the doctrines
of the Bible while yet there is an intellectual assent to them. The first is, that these doctrines
shall themselves become diluted and corrupted. So long as the affectionate submission of the
heart is not yielded to their authority; so long as there is any dislike towards their holy
claims; there is great danger that, as in the instance of the pagan, they will not be retained
in the knowledge. The sinful man becomes weary of a form of doctrine that continually rebukes
him, and gradually changes it into one that is less truthful and restraining. But a second
and equally alarming danger is, that the heart shall become accustomed to the truth, and grow
hard and indifferent towards it. There are a multitude of persons who hear the word of God
and never dream of disputing it, who yet, alas, never dream of obeying it. To such the living
truth of the gospel becomes a petrifaction, and a savor of death unto death.

We urge you, therefore, ye who know the doctrines of the law and the doctrines of the gospel,
to give an affectionate and hearty assent to them both. When the divine Word asserts that you
are guilty, and that you cannot stand in the judgment before God, make answer: "It is so, it
is so." Practically and deeply acknowledge the doctrine of human guilt and corruption. Let
it no longer be a theory in the head, but a humbling salutary consciousness in the heart. And
when the divine Word affirms that God so loved the world that he gave his Only-Begotten Son
to redeem it, make a quick and joyful response: "It is so, it is so." Instead of changing the
truth of God into a lie, as the guilty world have been doing for six thousand years, change
it into a blessed consciousness of the soul. Believe what you know; and then what you know
will be the wisdom of God to your salvation.

[Footnote 1: "There are no profane words in the (Iowa) Indian language: no light or profane
way of speaking of the 'Great Spirit.'"--FOREIGN MISSIONARY: May, 1863, p. 337.]

[Footnote 2: PLUTARCH: Numa, 8; AUGUSTINE: De Civitate, iv. 31.]

[Footnote 3: It should be noticed that Cornelius was not prepared for another life, by the
moral virtue which he had practised before meeting with Peter, but by his penitence for sin
and faith in Jesus Christ, whom Peter preached to him as the Saviour from sin (Acts x. 43).
Good works can no more prepare a pagan for eternity than they can a nominal Christian. Epictetus
and Marcus Aurelius could no more be justified by their personal character, than Saul of Tarsus
could be. First, because the virtue is imperfect, at the best: and, secondly, it does not begin
at the beginning of existence upon earth, and continue unintermittently to the end of it. A
sense of sin is a far more hopeful indication, in the instance of a heathen, than a sense of
virtue. The utter absence of humility and sorrow in the "Meditations" of the philosophic Emperor,
and the omnipresence in them of pride and self-satisfaction, place him out of all relations
to the Divine mercy. In trying to judge of the final condition of a pagan outside of revelation,
we must ask the question: Was he penitent? rather than the question: Was he virtuous?]

THE NECESSITY OF DIVINE INFLUENCES.

LUKE xi.

The reality, and necessity, of the operation of the Holy Spirit upon the human heart, is a
doctrine very frequently taught in the Scriptures. Our Lord, in the passage from which the
text is taken, speaks of the third Person in the Trinity in such a manner as to convey the
impression that His agency is as indispensable, in order to spiritual life, as food is in order
to physical; that sinful man as much needs the influences of the Holy Ghost as he does his
daily bread. "If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone?"
If this is not at all supposable, in the case of an affectionate earthly parent, much less
is it supposable that God the heavenly Father will refuse renewing and sanctifying influences
to them that ask for them. By employing such a significant comparison as this, our Lord implies
that there is as pressing need of the gift in the one instance as in the other. For, he does
not compare spiritual influences with the mere luxuries of life,--with wealth, fame, or power,--but
with the very staff of life itself. He selects the very bread by which the human body lives,
to illustrate the helpless sinner's need of the Holy Ghost. When God, by his prophet, would
teach His people that he would at some future time bestow a rich and remarkable blessing upon
them, He says: "I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh." When our Saviour was about to leave
his disciples, and was sending them forth as the ministers of his religion, he promised them
a direct and supernatural agency that should "reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and
of judgment."

And the history of Christianity evinces both the necessity and reality of Divine influences.
God the Spirit has actually been present by a special and peculiar agency, in this sinful and
hardened world, and hence the heart of flesh and the spread of vital religion. God the Spirit
has actually been absent, so far as concerns his special and peculiar agency, and hence the
continuance of the heart of stone, and the decline, and sometimes the extinction of vital religion.
Where the Holy Spirit has been, specially and peculiarly, there the true Church of Christ has
been, and where the Holy Spirit has not been, specially and peculiarly, there, the Church of
Christ has not been; however carefully, or imposingly, the externals of a church organization
may have been maintained.

But there is no stronger, or more effective proof of the need of the presence and agency of
the Holy Spirit, than that which is derived from the nature of the case, as it appears in the
individual. Just in proportion as we come to know our own moral condition, and our own moral
necessities, shall we see and feel that the origin and growth of holiness within our earthly
and alienated souls, without the agency of God the Holy Spirit, is an utter impossibility.
Let us then look into the argument from the nature of the case, and consider this doctrine
of a direct Divine operation, in its relations to ourselves personally. Why, then, does every
man need these influences of the Holy Spirit which are so cordially offered in the text?

1. He needs them, in the first place, in order that he may be convinced of the reality of the
eternal world.

There is such a world. It has as actual an existence as Europe or Asia. Though not an object
for any one of the five senses, the invisible world is as substantial as the great globe itself,
and will be standing when the elements shall have been melted with fervent heat, and the heavens
are no more. This eternal world, furthermore, is not only real, but it is filled with realities
that are yet more solemn. God inhabits it. The judgment-seat of Christ is set up in it. Heaven
is in it. Hell is in it. Myriads of myriads of holy and happy spirits are there. Myriads of
sinful and wretched spirits are there. Nay, this unseen world is the only real world, and the
objects in it the only real objects, if we remember that only that which is immutable deserves
the name of real. If we employ the eternal as the measure of real being, then all that is outside
of eternity is unreal and a vanity. This material world acquires impressiveness for man, by
virtue of the objects that fill it. His farm is in it, his houses are upon it, solid mountains
rise up from it, great rivers run through it, and the old rolling heavens are bent over it.
But what is the transient reality of these objects, these morning vapors, compared with the
everlasting reality of such beings as God and the soul, of such facts as holiness and sin,
of such states as heaven and hell? Here, then, we have in the unseen and eternal world a most
solemn and real object of knowledge; but where, among mankind, is the solemn and vivid knowledge
itself? Knowledge is the union of a fact with a feeling. There may be a stone in the street,
but unless I smite it with my foot, or smite it with my eye, I have no knowledge of the stone.
So, too, there is an invisible world, outstanding and awfully impressive; but unless I feel
its influences, and stand with awe beneath its shadows, it is as though it were not. Here is
an orb that has risen up into the horizon, but all eyes are shut.

For, no thoughtful observer fails to perceive that an earthly, and unspiritual mode of thought
and feeling is the prevalent one among men. No one who has ever endeavored to arrest the attention
of a fellow-man, and give his thoughts an upward tendency towards eternity, will say that the
effort is easily and generally successful. On the contrary, if an ethereal and holy inhabitant
of heaven were to go up and down our earth, and witness man's immersion in sense and time,
the earthliness of his views and aims, his neglect of spiritual objects and interests, his
absorption in this existence, and his forgetfulness of the other, it would be difficult to
convince him that he was among beings made in the image of God, and was mingling with a race
having an immortal destination beyond the grave.

In this first feature of the case, then, as we find it in ourselves, and see it in all our
fellow-men, we have the first evidence of the need of awakening influences from on high. Since
man, naturally, is destitute of a solemn sense of eternal things, it is plain that there can
be no moral change produced in him, unless he is first wakened from this drowze. He cannot
become the subject of that new birth without which he cannot see the kingdom of God, unless
his torpor respecting the Unseen is removed. Entirely satisfied as he now is with this mode
of existence, and thinking little or nothing about another, the first necessity in his case
is a startle, and an alarm. Difficult as he now finds it to be, to bring the invisible world
before his mind in a way to affect his feelings, he needs to have it loom upon his inward vision
with such power and impressiveness that he cannot take his eye off, if he would. Lethargic
as he now is, respecting his own immortality, it is impossible for him to live and act with
constant reference to it, unless he is wakened to its significance. Is it not self-evident,
that if the sinner's present indifference towards the invisible world, and his failure to feel
its solemn reality, continues through life, he will certainly enter that state of existence
with his present character? Looking into the human spirit, and seeing how dead it is towards
God and the future, must we not say, that if this deadness to eternity lasts until the death
of the body, it will certainly be the death of the soul?

But, in what way can man be made to realize that there is an eternal world, to which he is
rapidly tending, and realities there, with which, by the very constitution of his spirit, he
is forever and indissolubly connected either for bliss or woe? How shall thoughtless and earthly
man, as he treads these streets, and transacts all this business, and enjoys life, be made
to feel with misgiving, foreboding, and alarm, that there is an eternity, and that he must
soon enter it, as other men do, either as a heaven or a hell for his soul? The answer to this
question, so often asked in sadness and sorrow by the preacher of the word, drives us back
to the throne of God and to a mightier agency than that of man.

For one thing is certain, that this apathy and deadness will never of itself generate sensibility
and life. Satan never casts out Satan. If this slumberer be left to himself, he is lost. Should
any man be given over to the natural inclination of his heart, he would never be awakened.
Should his earthly mind receive no check, and his corrupt heart take its own way, he would
never realize that there is another world than this, until he entered it. For, the worldly
mind and the corrupt heart busy themselves solely and happily with this existence. They find
pleasure in the things of this life, and therefore never look beyond them. Worldly men do not
interfere with their own present actual enjoyment. Who of this class voluntarily makes himself
unhappy, by thinking of subjects that are gloomy to his mind? What man of the world starts
up from his sweet sleep and his pleasant dreams, and of his own accord looks the stern realities
of death and the judgment in the eye? No natural man begins to wound himself, that he may be
healed. No earthly man begins to slay himself, that he may be made alive. Even when the natural
heart is roused and wakened by some foreign agency; some startling providence of God or some
Divine operation in the conscience, how soon, if left to its own motion and tendency, does
it relapse into its old slumber and sleep. The needle has received a shock, but after a slight
trembling and vibration it soon settles again upon its axis, ever and steady to the north.
It is plain, that the sinner's worldly mind and apathetic nature will never conduct him to
a proper sense of Divine things.

The awakening, then, of the human soul, to an effectual apprehension of eternal realities,
must take its first issue from some other Being than the drowzy and slumbering creature himself.
We are not speaking of a few serious thoughts that now and then fleet across the human mind,
like meteors at midnight, and are seen no more. We are speaking of that permanent, that everlasting
dawning of eternity, with its terrors and its splendors, upon the human soul, which allows
it no more repose, until it is prepared for eternity upon good grounds and foundations; and
with reference to such a profound consciousness of the future state as this, we say with confidence,
that the awakening must proceed from some Being who is far more alive to the solemnity and
significance of eternal duration than earthly man is. Without impulses from on high, the sinner
never rouses up to attend to the subject of religion. He lives on indifferent to his religious
interests, until God, who is more merciful to his deathless soul than he himself is, by His
providence startles him, or by His Spirit in his conscience alarms him. Never, until God interferes
to disturb his dreams, and break up his slumber, does he profoundly and permanently feel that
he was made for another world, and is fast going into it. How often does God say to the careless
man: "Arise, O sleeper, and Christ shall give thee light;" and how often does he disregard
the warning voice! How often does God stimulate his conscience, and flare light into his mind;
and how often does he stifle down these inward convictions, and suffer the light to shine in
the darkness that comprehends it not! These facts in the personal history of every sin-loving
man show, that the human soul does not of its own isolated action wake up to the realities
of eternity. They also show that God is very merciful to the human soul, in positively and
powerfully interfering for its welfare; but that man, in infinite folly and wickedness, loves
the sleep, and inclines to remain in it. The Holy Spirit strives, but the human spirit resists.

II. In the second place, man needs the influences of the Holy Spirit that he may be convinced
of sin.

Man universally is a sinner, and yet he needs in every single instance to be made aware of
it. "There is none good, no, not one;" and yet out of the millions of the race how very few
feel this truth! Not only does man sin, but he adds to his guilt by remaining ignorant of it.
The criminal in this instance also, as in our courts of law, feels and confesses his crime
no faster than it is proved to him. Through what blindness of mind, and hardness of heart,
and insensibility of conscience, is the Holy Spirit obliged to force His way, before there
is a sincere acknowledgment of sin before God! The careful investigations, the persevering
questionings and cross-questionings, by which, before a human tribunal, the wilful and unrepenting
criminal is forced to see and acknowledge his wickedness, are but faint emblems of that thorough
work that must be wrought by the Holy Ghost, before the human soul, at a higher tribunal, forsaking
its refuges of lies, and desisting from its subterfuges and palliations, smites upon the breast,
and cries, "God be merciful to me a sinner!" Think how much of our sin has occurred in total
apathy, and indifference, and how unwilling we are to have any distinct consciousness upon
this subject. It is only now and then that we feel ourselves to be sinners; but it is by no
means only now and then that we are sinners. We sin habitually; we are conscious of sin rarely.
Our affections and inclinations and motives are evil, and only evil, continually; but our experimental
knowledge that they are so comes not often into our mind, and what is worse stays not long,
because we dislike it.

The conviction of sin, with what it includes and leads to, is of more worth to man than all
other convictions. Conviction of any sort,--a living practical consciousness of any kind,--is
of great value, because it is only this species of knowledge that moves mankind. Convince a
man, that is, give him a consciousness, of the truth of a principle in politics, in trade,
or in religion, and you actuate him politically, commercially, or religiously. Convince a criminal
of his crime, that is, endue him with a conscious feeling of his criminality, and you make
him burn with electric fire. A convicted man is a man thoroughly conscious; and a thoroughly
conscious man is a deeply moved one. And this is true, with emphasis, of the conviction of
sin. This consciousness produces a deeper and more lasting effect than all others. Convince
a community of the justice or injustice of a certain class of political principles, and you
stir it very deeply, and broadly, as the history of all democracies clearly shows; but let
society be once convinced of sin before the holy and righteous God, and deep calleth unto deep,
all the waters are moved. Never is a mass of human beings so centrally stirred, as when the
Spirit of God is poured out upon it, and from no movement in human society do such lasting
and blessed consequences flow, as from a genuine revival of religion.

But here again, as in reference to the eternal state, there is no realizing sense. Conviction
of sin is not a characteristic of mankind at large. Men generally will acknowledge in words
that they are sinners, but they wait for some far-distant day to come, when they shall be pricked
in the heart, and feel the truth of what they say. Men generally are not conscious of the dreadful
reality of sin, any more than they are of the solemn reality of eternity. A deep insensibility,
in this respect also, precludes a practical knowledge of that guilt in the soul, which, if
unpardoned and unremoved, will just as surely ruin it as God lives and the soul is immortal.
Since, then, if man be left to his own inclination, he never will be convinced of sin, it is
plain that some Agent who has the power must overcome his aversion to self-knowledge, and bring
him to consciousness upon this unwelcome subject. If any one of us, for the remainder of our
days, should be given over to that ordinary indifference towards sin with which we walk these
streets, and transact business, and enjoy life; if God's truth should never again in this world
stab the conscience, and God's Spirit should never again make us anxious; is it not infallibly
certain that the future would be as the past, and that we should go through this "accepted
time and day of salvation" unconvicted and therefore unconverted?

But besides this destitution of the experimental sense of sin, another ground of the need of
Divine agency is found in the blindness of the natural mind. Man's vision of spiritual things,
even when they are set before his eyes, is dim and inadequate. The Christian ministry is greatly
hindered, because it cannot illuminate the human understanding, and impart the power of a keen
spiritual insight. It is compelled to present the objects of sight, but it cannot give the
eye to see them. Vision depends altogether upon the condition of the organ. The eye sees only
what it brings the means of seeing. The scaled eye of a worldling, or a debauchee, or a self-righteous
man, cannot see that sin of the heart, that "spiritual wickedness," at which men like Paul
and Isaiah stood aghast. These were men whose character compared with that of the worldling
was saintly; men whose shoes' latchets the worldling is not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
And yet they saw a depravity within their own hearts which he does not see in his; a depravity
which he cannot see, and which he steadily denies to exist, until he is enlightened by the
Holy Ghost.

But the preacher has no power to impart this clear spiritual discernment. He cannot arm the
eye of the natural man with that magnifying and microscopic power, by which hatred shall be
seen to be murder, and lust, adultery, and the least swelling of pride, the sin of Lucifer.
He is compelled, by the testimony of the Bible, of the wise and the holy of all time, and of
his own consciousness, to tell every unregenerate man that he is no better than his race; that
he certainly is no better than the Christian Church which continually confesses and mourns
over indwelling sin. The faithful preacher of the word is obliged to insist that there is no
radical difference among men, and that the depravity of the man of irreproachable morals but
unrenewed heart is as total as was that of the great preacher to the Gentiles,--a man of perfectly
irreproachable morals, but who confessed that he was the chief of sinners, and feared lest
he should be a cast-away. But the preacher of this unwelcome message has no power to open the
blind eye. The preacher's position would be far easier, if there might be a transfer of experience;
if some of that bitter painful sense of sin with which the struggling Christian is burdened
might flow over into the easy, unvexed, and thoughtless souls of the men of this world. Would
that the consciousness upon this subject of sin, of a Paul or a Luther, might deluge that large
multitude of men who doubt or deny the doctrine of human depravity. The materials for that
consciousness, the items that go to make up that experience, exist as really and as plentifully
in your moral state and character, as they do in that of the mourning and self-reproaching
Christian who sits by your side,--your devout father, your saintly mother, or sister,--whom
you know, and who you know is a better being than you are. Why should they be weary and heavy-laden
with a sense of their unworthiness before God, and you go through life indifferent and light-hearted?
Are they deluded in respect to the doctrine of human depravity, and are you in the right? Think
you that the deathbed and the day of judgment will prove this to be the fact? No! if you shall
ever know anything of the Christian struggle with innate corruption; if you shall ever, in
the expressive phrase of Scripture, have your senses exercised as in a gymnasium [1] to discern
good and evil, and see yourself with self-abhorrence; your views will harmonize most profoundly
and exactly with theirs. And, furthermore, you will not in the process create any new sinfulness.
You will merely see the existing depravity of the human heart. You will simply see what is,--is
now, in your heart, and in all human hearts, and has been from the beginning.

But all this is the work of a more powerful and spiritual agency than that of man. The truth
may be exhibited with perfect transparency and plainness, the hearer himself may do his utmost
to have it penetrate and tell; and yet, there be no vivid and vital consciousness of sin. How
often does the serious and alarmed man say to us: "I know it, but I do not feel it." How long
and wearily, sometimes, does the anxious man struggle after an inward sense of these spiritual
things, without success, until he learns that an inward sense, an experimental consciousness,
respecting religious truth, is as purely a gift and product of God the Spirit as the breath
of life in his nostrils. Considering, then, the natural apathy of man respecting the sin that
is in his own heart, and the exceeding blindness of his mental vision, even when his attention
has been directed to it, is it not perfectly plain that there must be the exertion of a Divine
agency, in order that he may pass through even the first and lowest stages of the religious
experience?

In view of the subject, as thus far unfolded, we remark:

1. First, that it is the duty of every one, to take the facts in respect to man's character
as he finds them. Nothing is gained, in any province of human thought or action, by disputing
actual verities. They are stubborn things, and will not yield to the wishes and prejudices
of the natural heart. This is especially true in regard to the facts in man's moral and religious
condition. The testimony of Revelation is explicit, that "the carnal mind is enmity against
God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be;" and also, that "the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually
discerned." According to this Biblical statement, there is corruption and blindness together.
The human heart is at once sinful, and ignorant that it is so. It is, therefore, the very worst
form of evil; a fatal disease unknown to the patient, and accompanied with the belief that
there is perfect health; sin and guilt without any just and proper sense of it. This is the
testimony, and the assertion, of that Being who needs not that any should testify to Him of
man, for he knows what is in man. And this is the testimony, also, of every mind that has attained
a profound self-knowledge. For it is indisputable, that in proportion as a man is introspective,
and accustoms himself to the scrutiny of his motives and feelings, he discovers that "the whole
head is sick, and the whole heart is faint."

It is, therefore, the duty and wisdom of every one to set to his seal that God is true,--to
have this as his motto. Though, as yet, he is destitute of a clear conviction of sin, and a
godly sorrow for it, still he should presume the fact of human depravity. Good men in every
age have found it to be a fact, and the infallible Word of God declares that it is a fact.
What, then, is gained, by proposing another than the Biblical theory of human nature? Is the
evil removed by denying its existence? Will the mere calling men good at heart, and by nature,
make them such? In the second place, we remark that it is the duty of every one, not to be
discouraged by these facts and truths relative to the moral condition of man. For, one fact
conducts to the next one. One truth prepares for a second. If it is a solemn and sad fact that
men are sinners, and blind and dead in their trespasses and sin, it is also a cheering fact
that the Holy Spirit can enlighten the darkest understanding, and enliven the most torpid and
indifferent soul; and it is a still further, and most encouraging truth and fact, that the
Holy Spirit is given to those who ask for it, with more readiness than a father gives bread
to his hungry child. Here, then, we have the fact of sin, and of blindness and apathy in sin;
the fact of a mighty power in God to convince of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment; and
the blessed fact that this power is accessible to prayer. Let us put these three facts together,
all of them, and act accordingly.

[Footnote 1: [Greek: Ta aisthaeria gegurasmena.] Heb. v. 14.]

[Footnote 2: SHAKSPEARE: Richard II. Act i. Sc. 3.]

THE NECESSITY OF DIVINE INFLUENCES. [*continued]

Luke xi.

In expounding the doctrine of these words, in the preceding discourse, the argument for the
necessity of Divine influences had reference to the more general aspects of man's character
and condition. We were concerned with the origin of seriousness in view of a future life, and
the production of a sense of moral corruption and unfitness to enter eternity. We have now
to consider the work of the Spirit, in its relations, first, to that more distinct sense of
sin which is denominated the consciousness of guilt, and secondly, to that saving act of faith
by which the atonement of Christ is appropriated by the soul.

I. Sin is not man's misfortune, but his fault; and any view that falls short of this fact is
radically defective. Sin not only brings a corruption and bondage, but also a condemnation
and penalty, upon the self-will that originates it. Sin not only renders man unfit for rewards,
font also deserving of punishment. As one who has disobeyed law of his own determination, he
is liable not merely to the negative loss of blessings, but also to the positive infliction
of retribution. It is not enough that a transgressor be merely let alone; he must be taken
in hand and punished. He is not simply a diseased man; he is a criminal. His sin, therefore,
requires not a removal merely, but also an expiation.

This relation and reference of transgression to law and justice is a fundamental one; and yet
it is very liable to be overlooked, or at least to be inadequately apprehended. The sense of
ill-desert is too apt to be confused and shallow, in the human soul. Man is comparatively ready
to acknowledge the misery of sin, while he is slow to confess the guilt of it. When the word
of God asserts he is poor, and blind, and wretched, he is comparatively forward to assent;
but when, in addition, it asserts that he deserves to be punished everlastingly, he reluctates.
Mankind are willing to acknowledge their wretchedness, and be pitied; but they are not willing
to acknowledge their guiltiness, and stand condemned before law.

And yet, guilt is the very essence of sin. Extinguish the criminality, and you extinguish the
inmost core and heart of moral evil. We may have felt that sin is bondage, that it is inward
dissension and disharmony, that it takes away the true dignity of our nature, but if we have
not also felt that it is iniquity and merits penalty, we have not become conscious of its most
essential quality. It is not enough that we come before God, saying: "I am wretched in my soul;
I am weary of my bondage; I long for deliverance." We must also say, as we look up into that
holy Eye: "I am guilty; O my God I deserve thy judgments." In brief, the human mind must recognize
all the Divine attributes. The entire Divine character, in both its justice and its love, must
rise full-orbed before the soul, when thus seeking salvation. It is not enough, that we ask
God to free us from disquietude, and give us repose. Be merciful unto me, O God be merciful
unto me."

What is needed is, more consideration of sin in its objective, and less in its subjective relations;
more sense of it in its reference to the being and attributes of God, and less sense of it
in its reference to our own happiness or misery, or even to the harmony of our own powers and
faculties. The adorable being and attributes of God are of more importance than any human soul,
immortal though it be; and what is required in the religious experience is, more anxiety lest
the Divine glory should be tarnished, and less fear that a worm of the dust be made miserable
by his transgressions. And whatever may be our theory of the matter, "to this complexion must
we come at last," even in order to our own peace of mind. We must lose our life, in order to
find it. Even in order to our own inward repose of conscience and of heart, there must come
a point and period in our mental history, when we do actually sink self out of sight, and think
of sin in its relation to the character and government of the great and holy God,--when we
do see it to be guilt, as well as corruption.

For guilt is a distinct, and a distinguishable quality. It is a thing by itself, like the Platonic
idea of Beauty.[1] It is sin stripped of its accompaniments,--the restlessness, the dissatisfaction,
and the unhappiness which it produces,--and perceived in its pure odiousness and ill-desert.
And when thus seen, it does not permit the mind to think of any thing but the righteous law,
and the Divine character. In the hour of thorough conviction, the sinful spirit is lost in
the feeling of guiltiness: wholly engrossed in the reflection that it has incurred the condemnation
of the Best Being in the universe. It is in distress, not because an Almighty Being can make
it miserable but, because a Holy and Good Being has reason to be displeased with it. When it
gives utterance to its emotion, it says to its Sovereign and its Judge: "I am in anguish, more
because Thou the Holy and the Good art unreconciled with me, than because Thou the Omnipotent
canst punish me forever. I refuse not to The punished; I deserve the inflictions of Thy justice;
only forgive, and Thou mayest do what Thou wilt unto me." A soul that is truly penitent has
no desire to escape penalty, at the expense of principle and law. It says with David: "Thou
desirest not sacrifice;" such atonement as I can make is inadequate; "else would I give it."
It expresses its approbation of the pure justice of God, in the language of the gentlest and
sweetest of Mystics:

  "Thou hast no lightnings, O Thou Just!
  Or I their force should know;
  And if Thou strike me into dust,
  My soul approves the blow.

  The heart that values less its ease,
  Than it adores Thy ways;
  In Thine avenging anger, sees
  A subject of its praise.

  Pleased I could lie, concealed and lost,
  In shades of central night;
  Not to avoid Thy wrath, Thou know'st,
  But lest I grieve Thy sight.

  Smite me, O Thou whom I provoke!
  And I will love Thee still;
  The well deserved and righteous stroke
  Shall please me, though it kill."[2]

Now, it is only when the human spirit is under the illuminating, and discriminating influences
of the Holy Ghost, that it possesses this pure and genuine sense of guilt. Worldly losses,
trials, warnings by God's providence, may rouse the sinner, and make him solemn; but unless
the Spirit of Grace enters his heart he does not feel that he is ill-deserving. He is sad and
fearful, respecting the future life, and perhaps supposes that this state of mind is one of
true conviction, and wonders that it does not end in conversion, and the joy of pardon. But
if he would examine it, he would discover that it is full of the lust of self. He would find
that he is merely unhappy, and restless, and afraid to die. If he should examine the workings
of his heart, he would discover that they are only another form of self-love; that instead
of being anxious about self in the present world, he has become anxious about self in the future
world; that instead of looking out for his happiness here, he has begun to look out for it
hereafter; that in fact he has merely transferred sin, from time and its relations, to eternity
and its relations. Such sorrow as this needs to be sorrowed for, and such repentance as this
needs to be repented of. Such conviction as this needs to be laid open, and have its defect
shown. After a course of wrongdoing, it is not sufficient for man to come before the Holy One,
making mention of his wretchedness, and desire for happiness, but making no mention of his
culpability, and desert of righteous and holy judgments. It is not enough for the criminal
to plead for life, however earnestly, while he avoids the acknowledgment that death is his
just due. For silence in such a connection as this, is denial. The impenitent thief upon the
cross was clamorous for life and happiness, saying, "If thou be the Christ, save thyself and
us." He said nothing concerning the crime that had brought him to a malefactor's death, and
thereby showed that it did not weigh heavy upon his conscience. And then followed that meek
and broken-hearted supplication: "Lord remember me," which drew forth the world-renowned answer:
"This day shalt thou be with me in paradise."

In the fact, then, that man's experience of sin is so liable to be defective upon the side
of guilt, we find another necessity for the teaching of the Holy Spirit; for a spiritual agency
that cannot be deceived, which pierces to the dividing asunder of the soul and spirit, and
is a discerner of the real intent and feeling of the heart.

II. In the second place, man needs the influences of the Holy Spirit, in order that he may
actually appropriate Christ's atonement for sin.

The feeling of ill-desert, of which we have spoken, requires an expiation, in order to its
extinction, precisely as the burning sensation of thirst needs the cup of cold water, in order
that it may be allayed, the sense of guilt is awakened in its pure and genuine form, by the
Holy Spirit's operation, the soul craves the atonement,--it wants the dying Lamb of God. We
often speak of a believer's longings after purity, after peace, after joy. There is an appetency
for them. In like manner, there is in the illuminated and guilt-smitten conscience an appetency
for the piacular work of Christ, as that which alone can give it pacification. Contemplated
from this point of view, there is not a more rational doctrine within the whole Christian system,
than that of the Atonement. Anything that ministers to a distinct and legitimate craving in
man is reasonable, and necessary. That theorist, therefore, who would evince the unreasonableness
of the atoning work of the Redeemer, must first evince the unreasonableness of the consciousness
of guilt, and of the judicial craving of the conscience. He must show the groundlessness of
that fundamental and organic feeling which imparts such a blood-red color to all the religions
of the globe; be they Pagan, Jewish, or Christian. Whenever, therefore, this sensation of ill-desert
is elicited, and the soul feels consciously criminal before the Everlasting Judge, the difficulties
that beset the doctrine of the Cross all vanish in the craving, in the appetency, of the conscience,
for acquittal through the substituted sufferings of the Son of God. He who has been taught
by the Spirit respecting the iniquity of sin, and views it in its relations to the Divine holiness,
has no wish to be pardoned at the expense of justice. His conscience is now jealous for the
majesty of God, and the dignity of His government. He now experimentally understands that great
truth which has its foundation in the nature of guilt, and consequently in the method of Redemption,--the
great ethical truth, that after an accountable agent has stained himself with crime, there
is from the necessity of the case no remission without the satisfaction of law.

But it is one thing to acknowledge this in theory, and even to feel the need of Christ's atonement,
and still another thing to really appropriate it. Unbelief and despair have great power over
a guilt-stricken mind; and were it not for that Spirit who "takes of the things of Christ and
shows them to the soul," sinful man would in every instance succumb under their awful paralysis.
For, if the truth and Spirit of God should merely convince the sinner of his guilt, but never
apply the atoning blood of the Redeemer, hell would be in him and he would be in hell. If God,
coming forth as He justly might only in His judicial character, should confine Himself to a
convicting operation in the conscience,--should make the transgressor feel his guilt, and then
leave him to the feeling and with the feeling, forevermore,--this would be eternal death. And
if, as any man shall lie down upon his death-bed, he shall find that owing to his past quenching
of the Spirit the illuminating energy of God is searching him, and revealing him to himself,
but does not assist him to look up to the Saviour of sinners; and if, in the day of judgment,
as he draws near the bar of an eternal doom, he shall discover that the sense of guilt grows
deeper and deeper, while the atoning blood is not applied,--if this shall be the experience
of any one upon his death-bed, and in the day of judgment, will he need to be told what he
is and whither he is going?

Now it is with reference to these disclosures that come in like a deluge upon him, that man
needs the aids and operation of the Holy Spirit. Ordinarily, nearly the whole of his guilt
is latent within him. He is, commonly, undisturbed by conscience; but it would be a fatal error
to infer that therefore he has a clear and innocent conscience. There is a vast amount of undeveloped
guilt within every impenitent soul. It is slumbering there, as surely as magnetism is in the
magnet, and the electric fluid is in the piled-up thunder-cloud. For there are moments when
the sinful soul feels this hidden criminality, as there are moments when the magnet shows its
power, and the thunder-cloud darts its nimble and forked lightnings. Else, why do these pangs
and fears shoot and flash through it, every now and then? Why does the drowning man instinctively
ask for God's mercy? Were his conscience pure and clear from guilt, like that of the angel
or the seraph,--were there no latent crime within him,--he would sink into the unfathomed depths
of the sea, without the thought of such a cry. When the traveller in South America sees the
smoke and flame of the volcano, here and there, as he passes along, he is justified in inferring
that a vast central fire is burning beneath the whole region. In like manner, when man discovers,
as he watches the phenomena of his conscience, that guilt every now and then emerges like a
flash of flame into consciousness, filling him with fear and distress,--when he finds that
he has no security against this invasion, but that in an hour when he thinks not, and commonly
when he is weakest and faintest, in his moments of danger or death, it stings him and wounds
him, he is justified in inferring, and he must infer, that the deep places of his spirit, the
whole potentiality of his soul is full of crime.

Now, in no condition of the soul is there greater need of the agency of the Comforter (O well
named the Comforter), than when all this latency is suddenly manifested to a man. When this
deluge of discovery comes in, all the billows of doubt, fear, terror, and despair roll over
the soul, and it sinks in the deep waters. The sense of guilt,--that awful guilt, which the
man has carried about with him for many long years, and which he has trifled with,--now proves
too great for him to control. It seizes him like a strong-armed man. If he could only believe
that the blood of the Lamb of God expiates all this crime which is so appalling to his mind,
he would be at peace instantaneously. But he is unable to believe this. His sin, which heretofore
looked too small to be noticed, now appears too great to be forgiven. Other men may be pardoned,
but not he. He despairs of mercy; and if he should be left to the natural workings of his own
mind; if he should not be taught and assisted by the Holy Ghost, in this critical moment, to
behold the Lamb of God; he would despair forever. For this sense of ill-desert, this fearful
looking-for of judgment and fiery indignation, with which he is wrestling, is organic to the
conscience, and the human will has no more power over it than it has over the sympathetic nerve.
Only as he is taught by the Divine Spirit, is he able with perfect calmness to look up from
this brink of despair, and say: "There is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus.
The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin. I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded
that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day."

In view of the truths which we have now considered, it is worthy of observation:

1. First, that the Holy Spirit constitutes the tie, and bond of connection, between man and
God. The third Person in the Godhead is very often regarded as more distant from the human
soul, than either the Father or the Son. In the history of the doctrine of the Trinity, the
definition of the Holy Spirit, and the discrimination of His relations in the economy of the
Godhead, was not settled until after the doctrine of the first and second Persons had been
established. Something analogous to this appears in the individual experience. God the Father
and God the Son are more in the thoughts of many believers, than God the Holy Ghost. And yet,
we have seen that in the economy of Redemption, and from the very nature of the case, the soul
is brought as close to the Spirit, as to the Father and Son. Nay, it is only through the inward
operations of the former, that the latter are made real to the heart and mind of man. Not until
the third Person enlightens, are the second and first Persons beheld. "No man," says St. Paul,
"can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost."

The sinful soul is entirely dependent upon the Divine Spirit, and from first to last it is
in most intimate communication with Him during the process of salvation. It is enlightened
by His influence; it is enlivened by Him; it is empowered by Him to the act of faith in Christ's
Person and Work; it is supported and assisted by Him, in every step of the Christian race;
it is comforted by Him in all trials and tribulations; and, lastly, it is perfected in holiness,
and fitted for the immediate presence of God, by Him. Certainly, then, the believer should
have as full faith in the distinct personality, and immediate efficiency, of the third Person,
as he has in that of the first and second. His most affectionate feeling should centre upon
that Blessed Agent, through whom he appropriates the blessings that have been provided for
sinners by the Father and Son, and without whose influence the Father would have planned the
Redemptive scheme, and the Son have executed it, in vain.

2. In the second place, it is deserving of very careful notice that the influences of the Holy
Spirit may be obtained by asking for them. This is the only condition to be complied with.
And this gift, furthermore, is peculiar, in that it is invariably bestowed whenever it is sincerely
implored. There are other gifts of God which may be asked for with deep and agonizing desire,
and it is not certain that they will be granted. This is the case with temporal blessings.
A sick man may turn his face to the wall, with Hezekiah, and pray in the bitterness of his
soul, for the prolongation of his life, and yet not obtain the answer which Hezekiah received.
But no man ever supplicated in the earnestness of his soul for the influences of the Holy Spirit,
and was ultimately refused. For this is a gift which it is always safe to grant. It involves
a spiritual and everlasting good. It is the gift of righteousness, of the fear and love of
God in the heart. There is no danger in such a bestowment. It inevitably promotes the glory
of God. Hence our Lord, after bidding his hearers to "ask," to "seek," and to "knock," adds,
as the encouraging reason why they should do so: "For, every one that asketh receiveth; and
he that seeketh, [always] findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall [certainly] be opened."
This is a reason that cannot be assigned in the instance of other prayers. Our Lord commands
his disciples to pray for their daily bread; and we know that the children of God do generally
find their wants supplied. Still, it would not be true that every one who in the sincerity
of his soul has asked for daily bread has received it. The children of God have sometimes died
of hunger. But no soul that has ever hungered for the bread of heaven, and supplicated for
it, has been sent empty away. Nay more: Whoever finds it in his heart to ask for the Holy Spirit
may know, from this very fact, that the Holy Spirit has anticipated him, and has prompted the
very prayer itself. And think you that God will not grant a request which He himself has inspired?
And therefore, again, it is, that every one who asks invariably receives.

3. The third remark suggested by the subject we have been considering is, that it is exceedingly
hazardous to resist Divine influences. "Quench not the Spirit" is one of the most imperative
of the Apostolic injunctions. Our Lord, after saying that a word spoken against Himself is
pardonable, adds that he that blasphemes against the Holy Ghost shall never be forgiven, neither
in this world nor in the world to come. The New Testament surrounds the subject of Divine influences
with very great solemnity. It represents the resisting of the Holy Ghost to be as heinous,
and dangerous, as the trampling upon Christ's blood.

There is a reason for this. We have seen that in this operation upon the mind and heart, God
comes as near, and as close to man, as it is possible for Him to come. Now to grieve or oppose
such a merciful, and such an inward agency as this, is to offer the highest possible affront
to the majesty and the mercy of God. It is a great sin to slight the gifts of Divine providence,--to
misuse health, strength, wealth, talents. It is a deep sin to contemn the truths of Divine
Revelation, by which the soul is made wise unto eternal life. It is a fearful sin to despise
the claims of God the Father, and God the Son. But it is a transcendent sin to resist and beat
back, after it has been given, that mysterious, that holy, that immediately Divine influence,
by which alone the heart of stone can be made the heart of flesh. For, it indicates something
more than the ordinary carelessness of a sinner. It evinces a determined obstinacy in sin,--nay,
a Satanic opposition to God and goodness. It is of such a guilt as this, that the apostle John
remarks: "There is a sin unto death; I do not say that one should pray for it."[3]

Again, it is exceedingly hazardous to resist Divine influences, because they depend wholly
upon the good pleasure of God, and not at all upon any established and uniform law. We must
not, for a moment, suppose that the operations of the Holy Spirit upon the human soul are like
those of the forces of nature upon the molecules of matter. They are not uniform and unintermittent,
like gravitation, and chemical affinity. We may avail ourselves of the powers of nature at
any moment, because they are steadily operative by an established law. They are laboring incessantly,
and we may enter into their labors at any instant we please. But it is not so with supernatural
and gracious influences. God's awakening and renewing power does not operate with the uniformity
of those blind natural laws which He has impressed upon the dull clod beneath our feet. God
is not one of the forces of nature. He is a Person and a Sovereign. His special and highest
action upon the human soul is not uniform. His Spirit, He expressly teaches us, does not always
strive with man. It is a wind that bloweth when and where it listeth. For this reason, it is
dangerous to the religious interests of the soul, in the highest degree, to go counter to any
impulses of the Spirit, however slight, or to neglect any of His admonitions, however gentle.
If God in mercy has once come in upon a thoughtless mind, and wakened it to eternal realities;
if He has enlightened it to perceive the things that make for its peace; and that mind slights
this merciful interference, and stifles down these inward teachings, then God withdraws, and
whether He will ever return again to that soul depends upon His mere sovereign volition. He
has bound himself by no promise to do so. He has established no uniform law of operation, in
the case.

Let no one say: "God has promised to bestow the Holy Ghost to every one who asks: I will ask
at some future time." To "ask" for the Holy Spirit implies some already existing desire that
He would enter the mind and convince of sin, and convert to God. It implies some craving, some
yearning, for Divine influences; and this implies some measure of such influence already bestowed.
Man asks for the Holy Spirit, only as he is moved by the Holy Spirit. The Divine is ever prevenient
to the human. Suppose now, that a man resists these influences when they are already at work
within him, and says: "I will seek them at a more convenient season." Think you, that when
that convenient season comes round,--when life is waning, and the world is receding, and the
eternal gulf is yawning,--think you that that man who has already resisted grace can make his
own heart to yearn for it, and his soul to crave it? Do men at such times find that sincere
desires, and longings, and aspirations, come at their beck? Can a man say, with any prospect
of success: "I will now quench out this seriousness which the Spirit of God has produced in
my mind, and will bring it up again ten years hence. I will stifle this drawing of the Eternal
Father of my soul which I now feel at the roots of my being, and it shall re-appear at a future
day."

No! While it is true that any one who "asks," who really wants a spiritual blessing, will obtain
it, it is equally true that a man may have no heart to ask,--may have no desire, no yearning,
no aspiration at all, and be unable to produce one. In this case there is no promise. Whosoever
thirsts, and only he who thirsts, can obtain the water of life. Cherish, therefore, the faintest
influences and operations of the Comforter. If He enlightens your conscience so that it reproaches
you for sin, seek to have the work go on. Never resist any such convictions, and never attempt
to stifle them. If the Holy Spirit urges you to confession of sin before God, yield instantaneously
to His urging, and pour out your soul before the All-Merciful. And when He says, "Behold the
Lamb of God," look where He points, and be at peace and at rest. The secret of all spiritual
success is an immediate and uniform submission to the influences of the Holy Ghost.

[Footnote 1: [Greek: Anto, kath anto, meth anton, monoeides.]--PLATO: Convivium, p. 247, Ed.
Bipont.]

[Footnote 2: Guyon: translated by Cowper. is expressed by VAUGHAN in Works III. 85.--A similar
thought "The Eclipse."

  "Thy anger I could kiss, and will;
  But O Thy grief, Thy grief doth kill."]

[Footnote 3: The sin against the Holy Ghost is unpardonable, not because there is a grade of
guilt in it too scarlet to be washed white by Christ's blood of atonement but, because it implies
a total quenching of that operation of the third Person of the Trinity which is the only power
adequate to the extirpation of sin from the human soul. The sin against the Holy Ghost is tantamount,
therefore, to everlasting sin. And it is noteworthy, that in Mark iii. 29 the reading [Greek:
amartaemartos], instead of [Greek: kriseos], is supported by a majority of the oldest manuscripts
and versions, and is adopted by Lachmann, Tischendorf, and Tregelles. "He that shall blaspheme
against the Holy Ghost.... is in danger of eternal sin."]

THE IMPOTENCE OF THE LAW.

HEBREWS vii.

It is the aim of the Epistle to the Hebrews, to teach the insufficiency of the Jewish Dispensation
to save the human race from the wrath of God and the power of sin, and the all-sufficiency
of the Gospel Dispensation to do this. Hence, the writer of this Epistle endeavors with special
effort to make the Hebrews feel the weakness of their old and much esteemed religion, and to
show them that the only benefit which God intended by its establishment was, to point men to
the perfect and final religion of the Gospel. This he does, by examining the parts of the Old
Economy. In the first place, the sacrifices under the Mosaic law were not designed to extinguish
the sense of guilt,--"for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take
away sin,"--but were intended merely to awaken the sense of guilt, and thereby to lead the
Jew to look to that mercy of God which at a future day was to be exhibited in the sacrifice
of his eternal Son. The Jewish priesthood, again, standing between the sinner and God, were
not able to avert the Divine displeasure,--for as sinners they were themselves exposed to it.
They could only typify, and direct the guilty to, the great High Priest, the Messiah, whom
God's mercy would send in the fulness of time. Lastly, the moral law, proclaimed amidst the
thunderings and lightnings of Sinai, had no power to secure obedience, but only a fearful power
to produce the consciousness of disobedience, and of exposure to a death far more awful than
that threatened against the man who should touch the burning mountain.

It was, thus, the design of God, by this legal and preparatory dispensation, to disclose to
man his ruined and helpless condition, and his need of looking to Him for everything that pertains
to redemption. And he did it, by so arranging the dispensation that the Jew might, as it were,
make the trial and see if he could be his own Redeemer. He instituted a long and burdensome
round of observances, by means of which the Jew might, if possible, extinguish the remorse
of his conscience, and produce the peace of God in his soul. God seems by the sacrifices under
the law, and the many and costly offerings which the Jew was commanded to bring into the temple
of the Lord, to have virtually said to him: "Thou art guilty, and My wrath righteously abides
within thy conscience,--yet, do what thou canst to free thyself from it; free thyself from
it if thou canst; bring an offering and come before Me. But when thou hast found that thy conscience
still remains perturbed and unpacified, and thy heart still continues corrupt and sinful, then
look away from thy agency and thy offering, to My clemency and My offering,--trust not in these
finite sacrifices of the lamb and the goat, but let them merely remind thee of the infinite
sacrifice which in the fulness of time I will provide for the sin of the world,--and thy peace
shall be as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea."

But the proud and legal spirit of the Jew blinded him, and he did not perceive the true meaning
and intent of his national religion. He made it an end, instead of a mere means to an end.
Hence, it became a mechanical round of observances, kept up by custom, and eventually lost
the power, which it had in the earlier and better ages of the Jewish commonwealth, of awakening
the feeling of guilt and the sense of the need of a Redeemer. Thus, in the days of our Saviour's
appearance upon the earth, the chosen guardians of this religion, which was intended to make
men humble, and feel their personal ill-desert and need of mercy, had become self-satisfied
and self-righteous. A religion designed to prompt the utterance of the greatest of its prophets:
"Woe is me!

The Jew, in the times of our Saviour and his Apostles, had thus entirely mistaken the nature
and purpose of the Old dispensation, and hence was the most bitter opponent of the New. He
rested in the formal and ceremonial sacrifice of bulls and goats, and therefore counted the
blood of the Son of God an unholy thing. He thought to appear before Him in whose sight the
heavens are not clean, clothed in his own righteousness, and hence despised the righteousness
of Christ. In reality, he appealed to the justice of God, and therefore rejected the religion
of mercy.

But, this spirit is not confined to the Jew. It pervades the human race. Man is naturally a
legalist. He desires to be justified by his own character and his own works, and reluctates
at the thought of being accepted upon the ground of another's merits. This Judaistic spirit
is seen wherever there is none of the publican's feeling when he said, "God be merciful to
me a sinner." All confidence in personal virtue, all appeals to civil integrity, all attendance
upon the ordinances of the Christian religion without the exercise of the Christian's penitence
and faith, is, in reality; an exhibition of that same legal unevangelic spirit which in its
extreme form inflated the Pharisee, and led him to tithe mint anise and cummin. Man's so general
rejection of the Son of God as suffering the just for the unjust, as the manifestation of the
Divine clemency towards a criminal, is a sign either that he is insensible of his guilt, or
else that being somewhat conscious of it he thinks to cancel it himself.

Still, think and act as men may, the method of God in the Gospel is the only method. Other
foundation can no man lay than is laid. For it rests upon stubborn facts, and inexorable principles.
God knows that however anxiously a transgressor may strive to pacify his conscience, and prepare
it for the judgment-day, its deep remorse can be removed only by the blood of incarnate Deity;
that however sedulously he may attempt to obey the law, he will utterly fail, unless he is
inwardly renewed and strengthened by the Holy Ghost. He knows that mere bare law can make no
sinner perfect again, but that only the bringing in of a "better hope" can,--a hope by the
which we draw nigh to God.

The text leads us to inquire: Why cannot the moral law make fallen man perfect? Or, in other
words: Why cannot the ten commandments save a sinner?

That we may answer this question, we must first understand what is meant by a perfect man.
It is one in whom there is no defect or fault of any kind,--one, therefore, who has no perturbation
in his conscience, and no sin in his heart. It is a man who is entirely at peace with himself,
and with God, and whose affections are in perfect conformity with the Divine law.

But fallen man, man as we find him universally, is characterized by both a remorseful conscience
and an evil heart. His conscience distresses him, not indeed uniformly and constantly but,
in the great emergencies of his life,--in the hour of sickness, danger, death,--and his heart
is selfish and corrupt continually. He lacks perfection, therefore, in two particulars; first,
in respect to acquittal at the bar of justice, and secondly, in respect to inward purity. That,
therefore, which proposes to make him perfect again, must quiet the sense of guilt upon valid
grounds, and must produce a holy character. If the method fails in either of these two respects,
it fails altogether in making a perfect man.

But how can the moral law, or the ceremonial law, or both united, produce within the human
soul the cheerful, liberating, sense of acquittal, and reconciliation with God's justice? Why,
the very function and office-work of law, in all its forms, is to condemn and terrify the transgressor;
how then can it calm and soothe him? Or, is there anything in the performance of duty,--in
the act of obeying law,--that is adapted to produce this result, by taking away guilt? Suppose
that a murderer could and should perform a perfectly holy act, would it be any relief to his
anguished conscience, if he should offer it as an oblation to Eternal Justice for the sin that
is past? if he should plead it as an offset for having killed a man? When we ourselves review
the past, and see that we have not kept the law up to the present point in our lives, is the
gnawing of the worm to be stopped, by resolving to keep it, and actually keeping it from this
point? Can such a use of the law as this is,--can the performance of good works, imaginary
or real ones, imperfect or perfect ones,--discharge the office of an atonement, and so make
us perfect in the forum of conscience, and fill us with a deep and lasting sense of reconciliation
with the offended majesty and justice of God? Plainly not. For there is nothing compensatory,
nothing cancelling, nothing of the nature of a satisfaction of justice, in the best obedience
that was ever rendered to moral law, by saint, angel, or seraph. Because the creature owes
the whole. He is obligated from the very first instant of his existence, onward and evermore,
to love God supremely, and to obey him perfectly in every act and element of his being. Therefore,
the perfectly obedient saint, angel, and seraph must each say: "I am an unprofitable servant,
I have done only that which it was my duty to do; I can make no amends for past failures; I
can do no work that is meritorious and atoning." Obedience to law, then, by a creature, and
still less by a sinner, can never atone for the sins that are past; can never make the guilty
perfect "in things pertaining to conscience." And if a man, in this indirect and roundabout
manner, neglects the provisions of the gospel, neglects the oblation of Jesus Christ, and betakes
himself to the discharge of his own duty as a substitute therefor, he only finds that the flame
burns hotter, and the fang of the worm is sharper. If he looks to the moral law in any form,
and by any method, that he may get quit of his remorse and his fears of judgment, the feeling
of unreconciliation with justice, and the fearful looking-for of judgment is only made more
vivid and deep. Whoever attempts the discharge of duties for the purpose of atoning for his
sins takes a direct method of increasing the pains and perturbations which he seeks to remove.
The more he thinks of law, and the more he endeavors to obey it for the purpose of purchasing
the pardon of past transgression, the more wretched does he become. Look into the lacerated
conscience of Martin Luther before he found the Cross, examine the anxiety and gloom of Chalmers
before he saw the Lamb of God, for proof that this is so. These men, at first, were most earnest
in their use of the law in order to re-instate themselves in right relations with God's justice.
But the more they toiled in this direction, the less they succeeded. Burning with inward anguish,
and with God's arrows sticking fast in him, shall the transgressor get relief from the attribute
of Divine justice, and the qualities of law? Shall the ten commandments of Sinai, in any of
their forms or uses, send a cooling and calming virtue through the hot conscience? With these
kindling flashes in his guilt-stricken spirit, shall he run into the very identical fire that
kindled them? And yet such is, in reality, the attempt of every man who, upon being convicted
in his conscience of guilt before God, endeavors to attain peace by resolutions to alter his
course of conduct, and strenuous endeavors to obey the commands of God,--in short by relying
upon the law in any form, as a means of reconciliation. Such is the suicidal effort of every
man who substitutes the law for the gospel, and expects to produce within himself the everlasting
peace of God, by anything short of the atonement of God.

Let us fix it, then, as a fact, that the feeling of culpability and unreconciliation can never
be removed, so long as we do not look entirely away from our own character and works to the
mere pure mercy of God in the blood of Christ. The transgressor can never atone for crime by
anything that he can suffer, or anything that he can do. He can never establish a ground of
justification, a reason why he should be forgiven, by his tears, or his prayers, or his acts.
Neither the law, nor his attempts to obey the law, can re-instate him in his original relations
to justice, and make him perfect again in respect to his conscience. The ten commandments can
never silence his inward misgivings, and his moral fears; for they are given for the very purpose
of producing misgivings, and causing fears. "The law worketh wrath." And if this truth and
fact be clearly perceived, and boldly acknowledged to his own mind, it will cut him off from
all these legal devices and attempts, and will shut him up to the Divine mercy and the Divine
promise in Christ, where alone he is safe.

We have thus seen that one of the two things necessary in order that apostate man may become
perfect again,--viz., the pacification of his conscience,--cannot be obtained in and by the
law, in any of its forms or uses. Let us now examine the other thing necessary in order to
human perfection, and see what the law can do towards it.

The other requisite, in order that fallen man may become perfect again, is a holy heart and
will. Can the moral law originate this? That we may rightly answer the question, let us remember
that a holy will is one that keeps the law of God spontaneously and that a perfect heart is
one that sends forth holy affections and pure thoughts as naturally as the sinful heart sends
forth unholy affections and impure thoughts. A holy will, like an evil will, is a wonderful
and wonderfully fertile power. It does not consist in an ability to make a few or many separate
resolutions of obedience to the divine law, but in being itself one great inclination and determination
continually and mightily going forth. A holy will, therefore, is one that from its very nature
and spontaneity seeks God, and the glory of God. It does not even need to make a specific resolution
to obey; any more than an affectionate child needs to resolve to obey its father.

In like manner, a perfect and holy heart is a far more profound and capacious thing than men
who have never seriously tried to obtain it deem it to foe. It does not consist in the possession
of a few or many holy thoughts mixed with some sinful ones, or in having a few or many holy
desires together with some corrupt ones. A perfect heart is one undivided agency, and does
not produce, as the imperfectly sanctified heart of the Christian does, fruits of holiness
and fruits of sin, holy thoughts and unholy thoughts. It is itself a root and centre of holiness,
and nothing but goodness springs up from it. The angels of God are totally holy. Their wills
are unceasingly going forth towards Him with ease and delight; their hearts are unintermittently
gushing out emotions of love, and feelings of adoration, and thoughts of reverence, and therefore
the song that they sing is unceasing, and the smoke of their incense ascendeth forever and ever.

Such is the holy will, and the perfect heart, which fallen man must obtain in order to be fit
for heaven. To this complexion must he come at last. And now we ask: Can the law generate all
this excellence within the human soul? In order to answer this question, we must consider the
nature of law, and the manner of its operation. The law, as antithetic to the gospel, and as
the word is employed in the text, is in its nature mandatory and minatory. It commands, and
it threatens. This is the style of its operation. Can a perfect heart be originated in a sinner
by these two methods? Does the stern behest, "Do this or die," secure his willing and joyful
obedience? On the contrary, the very fact that the law of God comes up before him coupled thus
with a threatening evinces that his aversion and hostility are most intense. Were man, like
the angels on high, sweetly obedient to the Divine will, there would be no arming of law with
terror, no proclamation of ten commandments amidst thunderings and lightnings. He would be
a law unto himself, as all the heavenly host are,--the law working impulsively within him by
its own exceeding lawfulness and beauty. The very fact that God, in the instance of man, is
compelled to emphasize the penalty along with the statute,--to say, "Keep my commandments upon
pain of eternal death,"--is proof conclusive that man is a rebel, and intensely so.

And now what is the effect of this combination of command and threatening upon the agent? Is
he moulded by it? Does it congenially sway and incline him? On the contrary, is he not excited
to opposition by it? When the commandment "comes," loaded down with menace and damnation, does
not sin "revive," as the Apostle affirms?[1] Arrest the transgressor in the very act of disobedience,
and ring in his ears the "Thou shalt not" of the decalogue, and does he find that the law has
the power to alter his inclination, to overcome his carnal mind, and make him perfect in holiness?
On the contrary, the more you ply him with the stern command, and the more you emphasize the
awful threatening, the more do you make him conscious of inward sin, and awaken his depravity.
"The law,"--as St. Paul affirms in a very remarkable text,--"is the strength of sin,[2]" instead
of being its destruction. Nay, he had not even ([Greek: te]) known sin, but by the law: for
he had not known lust, except the law had said, "Thou shalt not lust." The commandment stimulates
instead of extirpating his hostility to the Divine government; and so long as the mere command,
and the mere threat,--which, as the hymn tells us, is all the law can do,--are brought to bear,
the depravity of the rebellious heart becomes more and more apparent, and more and more intensified.

There is no more touching poem in all literature than that one in which the pensive and moral
Schiller portrays the struggle of an ingenuous youth who would find the source of moral purification
in the moral law; who would seek the power that can transform him, in the mere imperatives
of his conscience, and the mere struggling and spasms of his own will. He represents him as
endeavoring earnestly and long to feel the force of obligation, and as toiling sedulously to
school himself into virtue, by the bare power, by the dead lift, of duty. But the longer he
tries, the more he loathes the restraints of law. Virtue, instead of growing lovely to him,
becomes more and more severe, austere, and repellant. His life, as the Scripture phrases it,
is "under law," and not under love. There is nothing spontaneous, nothing willing, nothing
genial in his religion. He does not enjoy religion, but he endures religion. Conscience does
not, in the least, renovate his will, but merely checks it, or goads it. He becomes wearied
and worn, and conscious that after all his self-schooling he is the same creature at heart,
in his disposition and affections, that he was at the commencement of the effort, he cries
out, "O Virtue, take back thy crown, and let me sin."[3] The tired and disgusted soul would
once more do a spontaneous thing.

Was, then, that which is good made death unto this youth, by a Divine arrangement? Is this
the original and necessary relation which law sustains to the will and affections of an accountable
creature? Must the pure and holy law of God, from the very nature of things, be a weariness
and a curse? God forbid. But sin that it might appear sin, working death in the sinner by that
which is good,--that sin by the commandment might become, might be seen to be, exceeding sinful.
The law is like a chemical test. It eats into sin enough to show what sin is, and there stops.
The lunar caustic bites into the dead flesh of the mortified limb; but there is no healing
virtue in the lunar caustic. The moral law makes no inward alterations in a sinner. In its
own distinctive and proper action upon the heart and will of an apostate being, it is fitted
only to elicit and exasperate his existing enmity. It can, therefore, no more be a source of
sanctification, than it can be of justification.

Of what use, then, is the law to a fallen man?--some one will ask. Why is the commandment enunciated
in the Scriptures, and why is the Christian ministry perpetually preaching it to men dead in
trespasses and sins? If the law can subdue no man's obstinate will, and can renovate no man's
corrupt heart,--if it can make nothing perfect in human character,--then, "wherefore serveth
the law?" "It was added because of transgressions,"--says the Apostle in answer to this very
question.[4] It is preached and forced home in order to detect sin, but not to remove it; to
bring men to a consciousness of the evil of their hearts, but not to change their hearts. "For,"
continues the Apostle, "if there had been a law given which could have given life"--which could
produce a transformation of character,--"then verily righteousness should have been by the
law," It is not because the stern and threatening commandment can impart spiritual vitality
to the sinner, but because it can produce within him the keen vivid sense of spiritual death,
that it is enunciated in the word of God, and proclaimed from the Christian pulpit. The Divine
law is waved like a flashing sword before the eyes of man, not because it can make him alive
but, because it can slay him, that he may then be made alive, not by the law but by the Holy
Ghost,--by the Breath that cometh from the four winds and breathes on the slain.

It is easy to see, by a moment's reflection, that, from the nature of the case, the moral law
cannot be a source of spiritual life and sanctification to a soul that has lost these. For
law primarily supposes life, supposes an obedient inclination, and therefore does not produce
it. It is not the function of any law to impart that moral force, that right disposition of
the heart, by which its command is to be obeyed. The State, for example, enacts a law against
murder, but this mere enactment does not, and cannot, produce a benevolent disposition in the
citizens of the commonwealth, in case they are destitute of it. How often do we hear the remark,
that it is impossible to legislate either morality or religion into the people. When the Supreme
Governor first placed man under the obligations and sovereignty of law, He created him in His
own image and likeness: endowing him with that holy heart and right inclination which obeys
the law of God with ease and delight. God made man upright, and in this state he could and
did keep the commands of God perfectly. If, therefore, by any subsequent action upon their
part, mankind have gone out of the primary relationship in which they stood to law, and have
by their apostasy lost all holy sympathy with it, and all affectionate disposition to obey
it, it only remains for the law (not to change along with them, but) to continue immutably
the same pure and righteous thing, and to say, "Obey perfectly, and thou shalt live; disobey
in a single instance, and thou shalt die."

But the text teaches us, that although the law can make no sinful man perfect, either upon
the side of justification, or of sanctification, "the bringing in of a better hope" can. This
hope is the evangelic hope,--the yearning desire, and the humble trust,--to be forgiven through
the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to be sanctified by the indwelling power of the
Holy Ghost. A simple, but a most powerful thing! Does the law, in its abrupt and terrible operation
in my conscience, start out the feeling of guiltiness until I throb with anguish, and moral
fear? I hope, I trust, I ask, to be pardoned through the blood of the Eternal Son of God my
Redeemer. I will answer all these accusations of law and conscience, by pleading what my Lord
has done.

Again, does the law search me, and probe me, and elicit me, and reveal me, until I would shrink
out of the sight of God and of myself? I hope, I trust, I ask, to be made pure as the angels,
spotless as the seraphim, by the transforming grace of the Holy Spirit. This confidence in
Christ's Person and Work is the anchor,--an anchor that was never yet wrenched from the clefts
of the Rock of Ages, and never will be through the aeons of aeons. By this hope, which goes
away from self, and goes away from the law, to Christ's oblation and the Holy Spirit's energy,
we do indeed draw very nigh to God,--"heart to heart, spirit to spirit, life to life."

1. The unfolding of this text of Scripture shows, in the first place, the importance of having
a distinct and discriminating conception of law, and especially of its proper function in reference
to a sinful being. Very much is gained when we understand precisely what the moral law, as
taught in the Scriptures, and written in our consciences, can do, and cannot do, towards our
salvation. It can do nothing positively and efficiently. It cannot extinguish a particle of
our guilt, and it cannot purge away a particle of our corruption. Its operation is wholly negative
and preparatory. It is merely a schoolmaster to conduct us to Christ. And the more definitely
this truth and fact is fixed in our minds, the more intelligently shall we proceed in our use
of law and conscience.

2. In the second place, the unfolding of this text shows the importance of using the law faithfully
and fearlessly within its own limits; and in accordance with its proper function. It is frequently
asked what the sinner shall do in the work of salvation. The answer is nigh thee, in thy mouth,
and in thy heart. Be continually applying the law of God to your personal character and conduct.
Keep an active and a searching conscience within your sinful soul. Use the high, broad, and
strict commandment of God as an instrumentality by which all ease, and all indifference, in
sin shall be banished from the breast. Employ all this apparatus of torture, as perhaps it
may seem to you in some sorrowful hours, and break up that moral drowze and lethargy which
is ruining so many souls. And then cease this work, the instant you have experimentally found
out that the law reaches a limit beyond which it cannot go,--that it forgives none of the sins
which it detects, produces no change in the heart whose vileness it reveals, and makes no lost
sinner perfect again. Having used the law legitimately, for purposes of illumination and conviction
merely, leave it forever as a source of justification and sanctification, and seek these in
Christ's atonement, and the Holy Spirit's gracious operation in the heart. Then sin shall not
have dominion over you; for you shall not be under law, but under grace. After that faith is
come, ye are no longer under a schoolmaster. For ye are then the children of God by faith in
Christ Jesus.[5]

How simple are the terms of salvation! But then they presuppose this work of the law,--this
guilt-smitten conscience, and this wearying sense of bondage to sin. It is easy for a thirsty
soul to drink down the draught of cold water. Nothing is simpler, nothing is more grateful
to the sensations. But suppose that the soul is satiated, and is not a thirsty one. Then, nothing
is more forced and repelling than this same draught. So is it with the provisions of the gospel.
Do we feel ourselves to be guilty beings; do we hunger, and do we thirst for the expiation
of our sins? Then the blood of Christ is drink indeed, and his flesh is meat with emphasis.
But are we at ease and self-contented? Then nothing is more distasteful than the terms of salvation.
Christ is a root out of dry ground. And so long as we remain in this unfeeling and torpid state,
salvation is an utter impossibility. The seed of the gospel cannot germinate and grow upon a rock.

[Footnote 1: Rom. vii. 9-12.]

[Footnote 2: 1 Cor. xv. 56.]

[Footnote 3: SCHILLER: Der Kampf.]

[Footnote 4: Galatians iii. 19.]

[Footnote 5: Galatians iii. 25, 26.]

SELF-SCRUTINY IN GOD'S PRESENCE.

These words were at first addressed to the Church of God. The prophet Isaiah begins his prophecy,
by calling upon the heavens and the earth to witness the exceeding sinfulness of God's chosen
people. Such ingratitude and sin as this, he naturally supposes would shock the very heavens
and earth.

Then follows a most vehement and terrible rebuke. The elect people of God are called "Sodom,"
and "Gomorrah." Why should ye be stricken, any more? ye will revolt more and more."

These words have, however, a wider application; and while the unfaithful children of God ought
to ponder them long and well, it is of equal importance that "the aliens from the commonwealth
of Israel" should reflect upon them, and see their general application to all transgressors,
so long as they are under the Gospel dispensation. Let us, then, consider two of the plain
lessons taught, in these words of the prophet, to every unpardoned man.

I. The text represents God as saying to the transgressor of his law, "Come and let us reason
together." The first lesson to be learned, consequently, is the duty of examining our moral
character and conduct, along with God.

When a responsible being has made a wrong use of his powers, nothing is more reasonable than
that he should call himself to account for this abuse. Nothing, certainly, is more necessary.
There can be no amendment for the future, until the past has been cared for. But that this
examination may be both thorough and profitable, it must be made in company with the Searcher
of hearts.

For there are always two beings who are concerned with sin; the being who commits it, and the
Being against whom it is committed. We sin, indeed, against ourselves; against our own conscience,
and against our own best interest. But we sin in a yet higher, and more terrible sense, against
Another than ourselves, compared with whose majesty all of our faculties and interests, both
in time and eternity, are altogether nothing and vanity. It is not enough, therefore, to refer
our sin to the law written on the heart, and there stop. We must ultimately pass beyond conscience
itself, to God, and say, "Against Thee have I sinned." It is not the highest expression of
the religious feeling, when we say, "How can I do this great wickedness, and sin against my
conscience?" He alone has reached the summit of vision who looks beyond all finite limits,
however wide and distant, beyond all finite faculties however noble and elevated, and says,
"How can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?"

Whenever, therefore, an examination is made into the nature of moral evil as it exists in the
individual heart, both parties concerned should share in the examination. The soul, as it looks
within, should invite the scrutiny of God also, and as fast as it makes discoveries of its
transgression and corruption should realize that the Holy One sees also. Such a joint examination
as this produces a very keen and clear sense of the evil and guilt of sin. Conscience indeed
makes cowards of us all, but when the eye of God is felt to be upon us, it smites us to the
ground. "When Thou with rebukes,"--says the Psalmist,--"dost correct man for his iniquity,
Thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth." One great reason why the feeling which
the moralist has towards sin is so tame and languid, when compared with the holy abhorrence
of the regenerate mind, lies in the fact that he has not contemplated human depravity in company
with a sin-hating Jehovah. At the very utmost, he has been shut up merely with a moral sense
which he has insulated from its dread ground and support,--the personal character and holy
emotions of God. What wonder is it, then, that this finite faculty should lose much of its
temper and severity, and though still condemning sin (for it must do this, if it does anything),
fails to do it with that spiritual energy which characterizes the conscience when God is felt
to be co-present and co-operating. So it is, in other provinces. We feel the guilt of an evil
action more sharply, when we know that a fellow-man saw us commit it, than when we know that
no one but ourselves is cognizant of the deed. The flush of shame often rises into our face,
upon learning accidentally that a fellow-being was looking at us, when we did the wrong action
without any blush. How much more criminal, then, do we feel, when distinctly aware that the
pure and holy God knows our transgression. How much clearer is our perception of the nature
of moral evil, when we investigate it along with Him whose eyes are a flame of fire.

It is, consequently, a very solemn moment, when the human spirit and the Eternal Mind are reasoning
together about the inward sinfulness. When the soul is shut up along with the Holy One of Israel,
there are great searchings of heart. Man is honest and anxious at such a time. His usual thoughtlessness
and torpidity upon the subject of religion leaves him, and he becomes a serious and deeply-interested
creature. Would that the multitudes who listen so languidly to the statements of the pulpit,
upon these themes of sin and guilt, might be closeted with the Everlasting Judge, in silence
and in solemn reflection. You who have for years been told of sin, but are, perhaps, still
as indifferent regarding it as if there were no stain, upon the conscience,--would that you
might enter into an examination of yourself, alone with your Maker. Then would you become as
serious, and as anxious, as you will be in that moment when you shall be informed that the
last hour of your life upon earth has come.

Another effect of this "reasoning together" with God, respecting our character and conduct,
is to render our views discriminating. The action of the mind is not only intense, it is also
intelligent. Strange as it may sound, it is yet a fact, that a review of our past lives conducted
under the eye of God, and with a recognition of His presence and oversight, serves to deliver
the mind from confusion and panic, and to fill it with a calm and rational fear. This is of
great value. For, when a man begins to be excited upon the subject of religion,--it may be
for the first time, in his unreflecting and heedless life,--he is oftentimes terribly excited.
He is now brought suddenly into the midst of the most solemn things. That sin of his, the enormity
of which he had never seen before, now reveals itself in a most frightful form, and he feels
as the murderer does who wakes in the morning and begins to realize that he has killed a man.
That holy Being, of whose holiness he had no proper conception, now rises dim and awful before
his half-opened inward eye, and he trembles like the pagan before the unknown God whom he ignorantly
worships. That eternity, which he had heard spoken of with total indifference, now flashes
penal flames in his face. Taken and held in this state of mind, the transgressor is confusedly
as well as terribly awakened, and he needs first of all to have this experience clarified,
and know precisely for what he is trembling, and why. This panic and consternation must depart,
and a calm intelligent anxiety must take its place. But this cannot be, unless the mind turns
towards God, and invites His searching scrutiny, and His aid in the search after sin. So long
as we shrink away from our Judge, and in upon ourselves, in these hours of conviction,--so
long as we deal only with the workings of our own minds, and do not look up and "reason together"
with God,--we take the most direct method of producing a blind, an obscure, and a selfish agony.
We work ourselves, more and more, into a mere phrenzy of excitement. Some of the most wretched
and fanatical experience in the history of the Church is traceable to a solitary self-brooding,
in which, after the sense of sin had been awakened, the soul did not discuss the matter with God.

For the character and attributes of God, when clearly seen, repress all fright, and produce
that peculiar species of fear which is tranquil because it is deep. Though the soul, in such
an hour, is conscious that God is a fearful object of sight for a transgressor, yet it continues
to gaze at Him with an eager straining eye. And in so doing, the superficial tremor and panic
of its first awakening to the subject of religion passes off, and gives place to an intenser
moral feeling, the calmness of which is like the stillness of fascination. Nothing has a finer
effect upon a company of awakened minds, than to cause the being and attributes of God, in
all their majesty and purity, to rise like an orb within their horizon; and the individual
can do nothing more proper, or more salutary, when once his sin begins to disquiet him, and
the inward perturbation commences, than to collect and steady himself, in an act of reflection
upon that very Being who abhors sin. Let no man, in the hour of conviction and moral fear,
attempt to run away from the Divine holiness. On the contrary, let him rush forward and throw
himself down prostrate before that Dread Presence, and plead the merits of the Son of God,
before it. He that finds his life shall lose it; but he that loses his life shall find it.
Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it remains a single unproductive corn
of wheat; but if it die, it germinates and brings forth much fruit. He who does not avoid a
contact between the sin of his soul and the holiness of his God, but on the contrary seeks
to have these two things come together, that each may be understood in its own intrinsic nature
and quality, takes the only safe course. He finds that, as he knows God more distinctly, he
knows himself more distinctly; and though as yet he can see nothing but displeasure in that
holy countenance, he is possessed of a well-defined experience. He knows that he is wrong,
and his Maker is right; that he is wicked, and that God is holy. He perceives these two fundamental
facts with a simplicity, and a certainty, that admits of no debate. The confusion and obscurity
of his mind, and particularly the queryings whether these things are so, whether God is so
very holy and man is so very sinful, begin to disappear, like a fog when disparted and scattered
by sunrise. Objects are seen in their true proportions and meanings; right and wrong, the carnal
mind and the spiritual mind, heaven and hell,--all the great contraries that pertain to the
subject of religion,--are distinctly understood, and thus the first step is taken towards a
better state of things in the soul.

Let no man, then, fear to invite the scrutiny of God, in connection with his own scrutiny of
himself. He who deals only with the sense of duty, and the operations of his own mind, will
find that these themselves become more dim and indistinct, so long as the process of examination
is not conducted in this joint manner; so long as the mind refuses to accept the Divine proposition,
"Come now, and let us reason together." He, on the other hand, who endeavors to obtain a clear
view of the Being against whom he has sinned, and to feel the full power of His holy eye as
well as of His holy law, will find that his sensations and experiences are gaining a wonderful
distinctness and intensity that will speedily bring the entire matter to an issue.

II. For then, by the blessing of God, he learns the second lesson taught in the text: viz.,
that there is forgiveness with God. Though, in this process of joint examination, your sins
be found to be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be discovered to be
red like crimson, they shall be as wool.

If there were no forgiveness of sins, if mercy were not a manifested attribute of God, all
self-examination, and especially all this conjoint divine scrutiny, would be a pure torment
and a pure gratuity. It is wretchedness to know that we are guilty sinners, but it is the endless
torment to know that there is no forgiveness, either here or hereafter. Convince a man that
he will never be pardoned, and you shut him up with the spirits in prison. Compel him to examine
himself under the eye of his God, while at the same time he has no hope of mercy,--and there
would be nothing unjust in this,--and you distress him with the keenest and most living torment
of which a rational spirit is capable. Well and natural was it, that the earliest creed of
the Christian Church emphasized the doctrine of the Divine Pity; and in all ages the Apostolic
Symbol has called upon the guilt-stricken human soul to cry, "I believe in the forgiveness
of sins."

We have the amplest assurance in the whole written Revelation of God, but nowhere else, that
"there is forgiveness with Him, that He may be feared." "Whoso confesseth and forsaketh his
sins shall find mercy;" and only with such an assurance as this from His own lips, could we
summon courage to look into our character and conduct, and invite God to do the same. But the
text is an exceedingly explicit assertion of this great truth. The very same Being who invites
us to reason with Him, and canvass the subject of our criminality, in the very same breath,
if we may so speak, assures us that He will forgive all that is found in this examination.
And upon such terms, cannot the criminal well afford to examine into his crime? He has a promise
beforehand, that if he will but scrutinize and confess his sin it shall be forgiven. God would
have been simply and strictly just, had He said to him: "Go down into the depths of thy transgressing
spirit, see how wicked thou hast been and still art, and know that in my righteous severity
I will never pardon thee, world without end." But instead of this, He says: "Go down into the
depths of thy heart, see the transgression and the corruption all along the line of the examination,
confess it into my ear, and I will make the scarlet and crimson guilt white in the blood of
my own Son." These declarations of Holy Writ, which are a direct verbal statement from the
lips of God, and which specify distinctly what He will do and will not do in the matter of
sin, teach us that however deeply our souls shall be found to be stained, the Divine pity outruns
and exceeds the crime. "For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy
towards them that fear him. He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all,
how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?" Here upon earth, there is no wickedness
that surpasses the pardoning love of God in Christ. He must not hope for mercy in the future
world, if he neglects it here. There are no acts of pardon passed in the day of judgment. The
utterance of Christ in that day is not the utterance, "Thy sins are forgiven thee," but, "Come
ye blessed," or "Depart ye cursed." So long, and only so long, as there is life there is hope,
and however great may be the conscious criminality of a man while he is under the economy of
Redemption, and before he is summoned to render up his last account, let him not despair but
hope in Divine grace.

Now, he who has seriously "reasoned together" with God, respecting his own character, is far
better prepared to find God in the forgiveness of sins, than he is who has merely brooded over
his own unhappiness, without any reference to the qualities and claims of his Judge. It has
been a plain and personal matter throughout, and having now come to a clear and settled conviction
that he is a guilty sinner, he turns directly to the great and good Being who stands immediately
before him, and prays to be forgiven, and is forgiven. One reason why the soul so often gropes
days and months without finding a sin-pardoning God lies in the fact, that its thoughts and
feelings respecting religious subjects, and particularly respecting the state of the heart,
have been too vague and indistinct. They have not had an immediate and close reference to that
one single Being who is most directly concerned, and who alone can minister to a mind diseased.
The soul is wretched, and there may be some sense of sin, but there is no one to go to,--no
one to address with an appealing cry. "Oh that I knew where I might find him," is its language.
"Oh that I might come even to his seat. Behold I go forward, but he is not there; and backward,
but I cannot perceive him." But this groping would cease were there a clear view of God. There
might not be peace and a sense of reconciliation immediately; but there would be a distinct
conception of the one thing needful in order to salvation. This would banish all other subjects
and objects. The eye would be fixed upon the single fact of sin, and the simple fact that none
but God can forgive it. The whole inward experience would thus be narrowed down to a focus.
Simplicity and intensity would be introduced into the mental state, instead of the previous
confusion and vagueness. Soliloquy would end, and prayer, importunate, agonizing prayer, would
begin. That morbid and useless self-brooding would cease, and those strong cryings and wrestlings
till day-break would commence, and the kingdom of heaven would suffer this violence, and the
violent would take it by force. For this,"--because this is Thy method of salvation,--"shall
every one that is godly pray unto thee, in a time when thou mayest be found." (Ps. xxxii. 3-6.)

Self-examination, then, when joined with a distinct recognition of the Divine character, and
a conscious sense of God's scrutiny, paradoxical as it may appear, is the surest means of producing
a firm conviction in a guilty mind that God is merciful, and is the swiftest way of finding
Him to be so. Opposed as the Divine nature is to sin, abhorrent as iniquity is to the pure
mind of God, it is nevertheless a fact, that that sinner who goes directly into this Dread
Presence with all his sins upon his head, in order to know them, to be condemned and crushed
by them, and to confess them, is the one who soonest returns with peace and hope in his soul.
For, he discovers that God is as cordial and sincere in His offer to forgive, as He is in His
threat to punish; and having, to his sorrow, felt the reality and power of the Divine anger,
he now to his joy feels the equal reality and power of the Divine love.

And this is the one great lesson which every man must learn, or perish forever. The truthfulness
of God, in every respect, and in all relations,--His strict fidelity to His word, both under
the law and under the gospel,--is a quality of which every one must have a vivid knowledge
and certainty, in order to salvation. Men perish through unbelief. He that doubteth is damned.
To illustrate. Men pass through this life doubting and denying God's abhorrence of sin, and
His determination to punish it forever and ever. Under the narcotic and stupefying influence
of this doubt and denial, they remain in sin, and at death go over into the immediate presence
of God, only to discover that all His statements respecting His determination upon this subject
are true,--awfully and hopelessly true. They then spend an eternity, in bewailing their infatuation
in dreaming, while here upon earth, that the great and holy God did not mean what he said.

Unbelief, again, tends to death in the other direction, though it is far less liable to result
in it. The convicted and guilt-smitten man sometimes doubts the truthfulness of the Divine
promise in Christ. He spends days of darkness and nights of woe, because he is unbelieving
in regard to God's compassion, and readiness to forgive a penitent; and when, at length, the
light of the Divine countenance breaks upon him, he wonders that he was so foolish and slow
of heart to believe all that God himself had said concerning the "multitude" of his tender
mercies. Christian and Hopeful lay long and needlessly in the dungeon of Doubting Castle, until
the former remembered that the key to all the locks was in his bosom, and had been all the
while. They needed only to take God at his word. The anxious and fearful soul must believe
the Eternal Judge implicitly, when he says: "I will justify thee through the blood of Christ."
God is truthful under the gospel, and under the law; in His promise of mercy, and in His threatening
of eternal woe. And "if we believe not, yet He abideth faithful; He cannot deny Himself." He
hath promised, and He hath threatened; and, though heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one
tittle of that promise shall not fail in the case of those who confidingly trust it, nor shall
one iota or scintilla of the threatening fail in the instance of those who have recklessly
and rashly disbelieved it.

In respect, then, to both sides of the revelation of the Divine character,--in respect to the
threatening and the promise,--men need to have a clear perception, and an unwavering belief.
He that doubteth in either direction is damned. He who does not believe that God is truthful,
when He declares that He will "punish iniquity, transgression and sin," and that those upon
the left hand shall "go away into everlasting punishment," will persist in sin until he passes
the line of probation and be lost. And he who does not believe that God is truthful, when He
declares that He will forgive scarlet and crimson sins through the blood of Christ, will be
overcome by despair and be also lost. But he who believes both Divine statements with equal
certainty, and perceives both facts with distinct vision, will be saved.

From these two lessons of the text, we deduce the following practical directions:

1. First: In all states of religious anxiety, we should betake ourselves instantly and directly
to God. There is no other refuge for the human soul but God in Christ, and if this fails us,
we must renounce all hope here and hereafter. Suppose the religious anxiety arise from a sense
of sin, and the fear of retribution. God is the only Being that can forgive sins. To whom,
then, can such an one go but unto Him? Suppose the religious anxiety arises from a sense of
the perishing nature of earthly objects, and the soul feels as if all the foundation and fabric
of its hope and comfort were rocking into irretrievable ruin. God is the only Being who can
help in this crisis. In either or in any case,--be it the anxiety of the unforgiven, or of
the child of God,--whatever be the species of mental sorrow, the human soul is by its very
circumstances driven to its Maker, or else driven to destruction.

What more reasonable course, therefore, than to conform to the necessities of our condition.
The principal part of wisdom is to take things as they are, and act accordingly. Are we, then,
sinners, and in fear for the final result of our life? Though it may seem to us like running
into fire, we must nevertheless betake ourselves first and immediately to that Being who hates
and punishes sin. Though we see nothing but condemnation and displeasure in those holy eyes,
we must nevertheless approach them just and simply as we are. We must say with king David in
a similar case, when he had incurred the displeasure of God: "I am in a great strait; [yet]
let me fall into the hand of the Lord, for very great are his mercies" (1 Chron. xx. 13). We
must suffer the intolerable brightness to blind and blast us in our guiltiness, and let there
be an actual contact between the sin of our soul and the holiness of our God. If we thus proceed,
in accordance with the facts of our case and our position, we shall meet with a great and joyful
surprise. Flinging ourselves helpless, and despairing of all other help,--rashly, as it will
seem to us, flinging ourselves off from the position where we now are, and upon which we must
inevitably perish, we shall find ourselves, to our surprise and unspeakable joy, caught in
everlasting, paternal arms. He who loses his life,--he who dares to lose his life,--shall find it.

2. Secondly: In all our religious anxiety, we should make a full and plain statement of everything
to God. God loves to hear the details of our sin, and our woe. The soul that pours itself out
as water will find that it is not like water spilt upon the ground, which cannot be gathered
up again. Even when the story is one of shame and remorse, we find it to be mental relief,
patiently and without any reservation or palliation, to expose the whole not only to our own
eye but to that of our Judge. For, to this very thing have we been invited. This is precisely
the "reasoning together" which God proposes to us. God has not offered clemency to a sinful
world, with the expectation or desire that there be on the part of those to whom it is offered,
such a stinted and meagre confession, such a glozing over and diminution of sin, as to make
that clemency appear a very small matter. He well knows the depth and the immensity of the
sin which He proposes to pardon, and has made provision accordingly. In the phrase of Luther,
it is no painted sinner who is to be forgiven, and it is no painted Saviour who is offered.
The transgression is deep and real, and the atonement is deep and real. The crime cannot be
exaggerated, neither can the expiation. He, therefore, who makes the plainest and most child-like
statement of himself to God, acts most in accordance with the mind, and will, and gospel of
God. If man only be hearty, full, and unreserved in confession, he will find God to be hearty,
full, and unreserved in absolution.

Man is not straitened upon the side of the Divine mercy. The obstacle in the way of his salvation
is in himself; and the particular, fatal obstacle consists in the fact that he does not feel
that he needs mercy. God in Christ stands ready to pardon, but man the sinner stands up before
Him like the besotted criminal in our courts of law, with no feeling upon the subject. The
Judge assures him that He has a boundless grace and clemency to bestow, but the stolid hardened
man is not even aware that he has committed a dreadful crime, and needs grace and clemency.
There is food in infinite abundance, but no hunger upon the part of man. The water of life
is flowing by in torrents, but men have no thirst. In this state of things, nothing can be
done, but to pass a sentence of condemnation. God cannot forgive a being who does not even
know that he needs to be forgiven. Knowledge then, self-knowledge, is the great requisite;
and the want of it is the cause of perdition. This "reasoning together" with God, respecting
our past and present character and conduct, is the first step to be taken by any one who would
make preparation for eternity. As soon as we come to a right understanding of our lost and
guilty condition, we shall cry: "Be merciful to me a sinner; create within me a clean heart,
O God." Without such an understanding,--such an intelligent perception of our sin and guilt,--we
never shall, and we never can.

[Footnote 1: SHAKSPEARE: Hamlet, Act iii. Sc. 4.]

[Footnote 2: MILTON: Comus, 597-599.]

SIN IS SPIRITUAL SLAVERY

John viii.

The word [Greek: doulos] which is translated "servant," in the text, literally signifies a
slave; and the thought which our Lord actually conveyed to those who heard Him is, "Whosoever
committeth sin is the slave of sin." The apostle Peter, in that second Epistle of his which
is so full of terse and terrible description of the effects of unbridled sensuality upon the
human will, expresses the same truth. Speaking of the influence of those corrupting and licentious
men who have "eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin," he remarks that while
they promise their dupes "liberty, they themselves are the servants [slaves] of corruption:
for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage."

Such passages as these, of which there are a great number in the Bible, direct attention to
the fact that sin contains an element of servitude,--that in the very act of transgressing
the law of God there is a reflex action of the human will upon itself, whereby it becomes less
able than before to keep that law. Sin is the suicidal action of the human will. It destroys
the power to do right, which is man's true freedom. The effect of vicious habit in diminishing
a man's ability to resist temptation is proverbial. But what is habit but a constant repetition
of wrong decisions, every single one of which reacts upon the faculty that put them forth,
and renders it less strong and less energetic, to do the contrary. Has the old debauchee, just
tottering into hell, as much power of active resistance against the sin which has now ruined
him, as the youth has who is just beginning to run that awful career? Can any being do a wrong
act, and be as sound in his will and as spiritually strong, after it, as he was before it?
Did that abuse of free agency by Adam, whereby the sin of the race was originated, leave the
agent as it found him,--uninjured and undebilitated in his voluntary power?

The truth and fact is, that sin in and by its own nature and operations, tends to destroy all
virtuous force, all holy energy, in any moral being. The excess of will to sin is the same
as the defect of will to holiness. The degree of intensity with which any man loves and inclines
to evil is the measure of the amount of power to good which he has thereby lost. And if the
intensity be total, then the loss is entire. Total depravity carries with it total impotence
and helplessness. The more carefully we observe the workings of our own wills, the surer will
be our conviction that they can ruin themselves. We shall indeed find that they cannot be forced,
or ruined from the outside. But, if we watch the influence upon the will itself, of its own
wrong decisions, its own yielding to temptations, we shall discover that the voluntary faculty
may be ruined from within; may be made impotent to good by its own action; may surrender itself
with such an intensity and entireness to appetite, passion, and self-love, that it becomes
unable to reverse itself, and overcome its own wrong disposition and direction. And yet there
is no compulsion, from first to last, in the process. The man follows himself. He pursues his
own inclination. He has his own way and does as he pleases. He loves what he inclines to love,
and hates what he inclines to hate. Neither God, nor the world, nor Satan himself, force him
to do wrong. Sin is the most spontaneous of self-motion. But self-motion has consequences as
much as any other motion. Because transgression is a self-determined act, it does not follow
that it has no reaction and results, but leaves the will precisely as it found it. It is strictly
true that man was not necessitated to apostatize; but it is equally true that if by his own
self-decision he should apostatize, he could not then and afterwards be as he was before. He
would lose a knowledge of God and divine things which he could never regain of himself. And
he would lose a spiritual power which he could never again recover of himself. The bondage
of which Christ speaks, when He says, "Whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin," is an
effect within the soul itself of an unforced act of self-will, and therefore is as truly guilt
as any other result or product of self-will,--as spiritual blindness, or spiritual hardness,
or any other of the qualities of sin. Whatever springs from will, we are responsible for. The
drunkard's bondage and powerlessness issues from his own inclination and self-indulgence, and
therefore the bondage and impotence is no excuse for his vice. Man's inability to love God
supremely results from his intense self-will and self-love; and therefore his impotence is
a part and element of his sin, and not an excuse for it.

  "If weakness may excuse,
  What murderer, what traitor, parricide,
  Incestuous, sacrilegious, may not plead it?
  All wickedness is weakness."[1]

The doctrine, then, which is taught in the text, is the truth that sin is spiritual slavery;
and it is to the proof and illustration of this position that we invite attention.

The term "spiritual" is too often taken to mean unreal, fanciful, figurative. For man is earthly
in his views as well as in his feelings, and therefore regards visible and material things
as the emphatic realities. Hence he employs material objects as the ultimate standard, by which
he measures the reality of all other things. The natural man has more consciousness of his
body, than he has of his soul; more sense of this world, than of the other. Hence we find that
the carnal man expresses his conception of spiritual things, by transferring to them, in a
weak and secondary signification, words which he applies in a strong and vivid way only to
material objects. He speaks of the "joy" of the spirit, but it is not such a reality for him
as is the "joy" of the body. He speaks of the "pain" of the spirit, but it has not such a poignancy
for him as that anguish which thrills through his muscles and nerves. He knows that the "death"
of the body is a terrible event, but transfers the word "death" to the spirit with a vague
and feeble meaning, not realizing that the second death is more awful than the first, and is
accompanied with a spiritual distress compared with which, the sharpest agony of material dissolution
would be a relief. He understands what is meant by the "life" of the body, but when he hears
the "eternal life" of the spirit spoken of, or when he reads of it in the Bible, it is with
the feeling that it cannot be so real and lifelike as that vital principle whose currents impart
vigor and warmth to his bodily frame. And yet, the life of the spirit is more intensely real
than the life of the body is; for it has power to overrule and absorb it. Spiritual life, when
in full play, is bliss ineffable. It translates man into the third heavens, where the fleshly
life is lost sight of entirely, and the being, like St. Paul, does not know whether he is in
the body or out of the body.

The natural mind is deceived. Spirit has in it more of reality than matter has; because it
is an immortal and indestructible essence, while matter is neither. Spiritual things are more
real than visible things; because they are eternal, and eternity is more real than time. Statements
respecting spiritual objects, therefore, are more solemnly true than any that relate to material
things. Invisible and spiritual realities, therefore, are the standard by which all others
should be tried; and human language when applied to them, instead of expressing too much, expresses
too little. The imagery and phraseology by which the Scriptures describe the glory of God,
the excellence of holiness, and the bliss of heaven, on the one side, and the sinfulness of
sin with the woe of hell, on the other, come short of the sober and actual matter of fact.

We should, therefore, beware of the error to which in our unspirituality we are specially liable;
and when we hear Christ assert that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin," we should
believe and know, that these words are not extravagant, and contain no subtrahend,--that they
indicate a self-enslavement of the human will which is so real, so total, and so absolute,
as to necessitate the renewing grace of God in order to deliverance from it.

This bondage to sin may be discovered by every man. It must be discovered, before one can cry,
"Save me or I perish." It must be discovered, before one can feelingly assent to Christ's words,
"Without me ye can do nothing." It must be discovered, before one can understand the Christian
paradox, "When I am weak, then am I strong." To aid the mind, in coming to the conscious experience
of the truth taught in the text, we remark:

I. Sin is spiritual slavery, if viewed in reference to man's sense of obligation to be perfectly
holy.

The obligation to be holy, just, and good, as God is, rests upon every rational being. Every
man knows, or may know, that he ought to be perfect as his Father in heaven is perfect, and
that he is a debtor to this obligation until he has fully met it. Hence even the holiest of
men are conscious of sin, because they are not completely up to the mark of this high calling
of God. For, the sense of this obligation is an exceeding broad one,--like the law itself which
it includes and enforces. The feeling of duty will not let us off, with the performance of
only a part of our duty. Law spreads itself over the whole surface and course of our lives,
and insists imperatively that every part and particle of them be pure and holy.

Again, this sense of obligation to be perfect as God is perfect, is exceedingly deep. It is
the most profound sense of which man is possessed, for it outlives all others. The feeling
of duty to God's law remains in a man's mind either to bless him or to curse him, when all
other feelings depart. In the hour of death, when all the varied passions and experiences which
have engrossed the man his whole lifetime are dying out of the soul, and are disappearing,
one after another, like signal-lights in the deepening darkness, this one particular feeling
of what he owes to the Divine and the Eternal law remains behind, and grows more vivid, and
painful, as all others grow dimmer and dimmer. And therefore it is, that in this solemn hour
man forgets whether he has been happy or unhappy, successful or unsuccessful, in the world,
and remembers only that he has been a sinner in it. And therefore it is, that a man's thoughts,
when he is upon his death-bed, do not settle upon his worldly matters, but upon his sin. It
is because the human conscience is the very core and centre of the human being, and its sense
of obligation to be holy is deeper than all other senses and sensations, that we hear the dying
man say what the living and prosperous man is not inclined to say: "I have been wicked; I have
been a sinner in the earth."

Now it might seem, at first sight, that this broad, deep, and abiding sense of obligation would
be sufficient to overcome man's love of sin, and bring him up to the discharge of duty,--would
be powerful enough to subdue his self-will. Can it be that this strong and steady draft of
conscience,--strong and steady as gravitation,--will ultimately prove ineffectual? Is not truth
mighty, and must it not finally prevail, to the pulling down of the stronghold which Satan
has in the human heart? So some men argue. So some men claim, in opposition to the doctrine
of Divine influences and of regeneration by the Holy Ghost.

We are willing to appeal to actual experience, in order to settle the point. And we affirm
in the outset, that exactly in proportion as a man hears the voice of conscience sounding its
law within his breast, does he become aware, not of the strength but, of the bondage of his
will, and that in proportion as this sense of obligation to be perfectly holy rises in his
soul, all hope or expectation of ever becoming so by his own power sets in thick night.

In our careless unawakened state, which is our ordinary state, we sin on from day to day, just
as we live on from day to day, without being distinctly aware of it. A healthy man does not
go about, holding his fingers upon his wrist, and counting every pulse; and neither does a
sinful man, as he walks these streets and transacts all this business, think of and sum up
the multitude of his transgressions. And yet, that pulse all the while beats none the less;
and yet, that will all the while transgresses none the less. So long as conscience is asleep,
sin is pleasant. The sinful activity goes on without notice, we are happy in sin, and we do
not feel that it is slavery of the will. Though the chains are actually about us, yet they
do not gall us. In this condition, which is that of every unawakened sinner, we are not conscious
of the "bondage of corruption." In the phrase of St. Paul, "we are alive without the law."
We have no feeling sense of duty, and of course have no feeling sense of sin. And it is in
this state of things, that arguments are framed to prove the mightiness of mere conscience,
and the power of bare truth and moral obligation, over the perverse human heart and will.

But the Spirit of God awakens the conscience; that sense of obligation to be perfectly holy
which has hitherto slept now starts up, and begins to form an estimate of what has been done
in reference to it. The man hears the authoritative and startling law: "Thou shalt be perfect,
as God is." And now, at this very instant and point, begins the consciousness of enslavement,--of
being, in the expressive phrase of Scripture, "sold under sin." Now the commandment "comes,"
shows us first what we ought to be and then what we actually are, and we "die."[2] All moral
strength dies out of us. The muscle has been cut by the sword of truth, and the limb drops
helpless by the side. For, we find that the obligation is immense. It extends to all our outward
acts; and having covered the whole of this great surface, it then strikes inward and reaches
to every thought of the mind, and every emotion of the heart, and every motive of the will.
We discover that we are under obligation at every conceivable point in our being and in our
history, but that we have not met obligation at a single point. When we see that the law of
God is broad and deep, and that sin is equally broad and deep within us; when we learn that
we have never thought one single holy thought, nor felt one single holy feeling, nor done one
single holy deed, because self-love is the root and principle of all our work, and we have
never purposed or desired to please God by any one of our actions; when we find that everything
has been required, and that absolutely nothing has been done, that we are bound to be perfectly
holy this very instant, and as matter of fact are totally sinful, we know in a most affecting
manner that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin".

But suppose that after this disheartening and weakening discovery of the depth and extent of
our sinfulness, we proceed to take the second step, and attempt to extirpate it. Suppose that
after coming to a consciousness of all this obligation resting upon us, we endeavor to comply
with it. This renders us still more painfully sensible of the truth of our Saviour's declaration.
Even the regenerated man, who in this endeavor has the aid of God, is mournfully conscious
that sin is the enslavement of the human will. Though he has been freed substantially, he feels
that the fragments of the chains are upon him still. Though the love of God is the predominant
principle within him, yet the lusts and propensities of the old nature continually start up
like devils, and tug at the spirit, to drag it down to its old bondage. But that man who attempts
to overcome sin, without first crying, "Create within me a clean heart, O God," feels still
more deeply that sin is spiritual slavery. When he comes to know sin in reference to the obligation
to be perfectly holy, it is with vividness and hopelessness. He sees distinctly that he ought
to be a perfectly good being instantaneously. This point is clear. But instead of looking up
to the hills whence cometh his help, he begins, in a cold legal and loveless temper, to draw
upon his own resources. The first step is to regulate his external conduct by the Divine law.
He tries to put a bridle upon his tongue, and to walk carefully before his fellow-men. He fails
to do even this small outside thing, and is filled with discouragement and despondency.

But the sense of duty reaches beyond the external conduct, and the law of God pierces like
the two-edged sword of an executioner, and discerns the thoughts and motives of the heart.
Sin begins to be seen in its relation to the inner man, and he attempts again to reform and
change the feelings and affections of his soul. He strives to wring the gall of bitterness
out of his own heart, with his own hands. But he fails utterly. As he resolves, and breaks
his resolutions; as he finds evil thoughts and feelings continually coming up from the deep
places of his heart; he discovers his spiritual impotence,--his lack of control over what is
deepest, most intimate, and most fundamental in his own character,--and cries out: "I am a
slave, I am a slave to myself."

If then, you would know from immediate consciousness that "whosoever committeth sin is the
slave of sin," simply view sin in the light of that obligation to be perfectly pure and holy
which necessarily, and forever, rests upon a responsible being. If you would know that spiritual
slavery is no extravagant and unmeaning phrase, but denotes a most real and helpless bondage,
endeavor to get entirely rid of sin, and to be perfect as the spirits of just men made perfect.

II. Sin is spiritual slavery, if viewed in reference to the aspirations of the human soul.

Theology makes a distinction between common and special grace,--between those ordinary influences
of the Divine Spirit which rouse the conscience, and awaken some transient aspirations after
religion, and those extraordinary influences which actually renew the heart and will. In speaking,
then, of the aspirations of the human soul, reference is had to all those serious impressions,
and those painful anxieties concerning salvation, which require to be followed up by a yet
mightier power from God, to prevent their being entirely suppressed again, as they are in a
multitude of instances, by the strong love of sin and the world. For though man has fallen
into a state of death in trespasses and sins, so that if cut off from every species of Divine
influence, and left entirely to himself, he would never reach out after anything but the sin
which he loves, yet through the common influences of the Spirit of Grace, and the ordinary
workings of a rational nature not yet reprobated, he is at times the subject of internal stirrings
and aspirations that indicate the greatness and glory of the heights whence he fell. Under
the power of an awakened conscience, and feeling the emptiness of the world, and the aching
void within him, man wishes for something better than he has, or than he is. The minds of the
more thoughtful of the ancient pagans were the subjects of these impulses, and aspirations;
and they confess their utter inability to realize them. They are expressed upon every page
of Plato, and it is not surprising that some of the Christian Fathers should have deemed Platonism,
as well as Judaism, to be a preparation for Christianity, by its bringing man to a sense of
his need of redemption. And it would stimulate Christians in their efforts to give revealed
religion to the heathen, did they ponder the fact which the journals of the missionary sometimes
disclose, that the Divine Spirit is brooding with His common and preparatory influence over
the chaos of Paganism, and that here and there the heathen mind faintly aspires to be freed
from the bondage of corruption,--that dim stirrings, impulses, and wishes for deliverance,
are awake in the dark heart of Paganism, but that owing to the strength and inveteracy of sin
in that heart they will prove ineffectual to salvation, unless the gospel is preached, and
the Holy Spirit is specially poured out in answer to the prayers of Christians.

Now, all these phenomena in the human soul go to show the rigid bondage of sin, and to prove
that sin has an element of servitude in it. For when these impulses, wishes, and aspirations
are awakened, and the man discovers that he is unable to realize them in actual character and
conduct, he is wretchedly and thoroughly conscious that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave
of sin." The immortal, heaven-descended spirit, feeling the kindling touch of truth and of
the Holy Ghost, thrills under it, and essays to soar. But sin hangs heavy upon it, and it cannot
lift itself from the earth. Never is man so sensible of his enslavement and his helplessness,
as when he has a wish but has no will.[3]

Look, for illustration, at the aspirations of the drunkard to be delivered from the vice that
easily besets him. In his sober moments, they come thick and fast, and during his sobriety,
and while under the lashings of conscience, he wishes, nay, even longs, to be freed from drunkenness.
It may be, that under the impulse of these aspirations he resolves never to drink again. It
may be, that amid the buoyancy that naturally accompanies the springing of hope and longing
in the human soul, he for a time seems to himself to be actually rising up from his "wallowing
in the mire," and supposes that he shall soon regain his primitive condition of temperance.
But the sin is strong; for the appetite that feeds it is in his blood. Temptation with its
witching solicitation comes before the will,--the weak, self-enslaved will. He aspires to resist,
but will not; the spirit would soar, but the flesh will creep; the spirit has the wish, but
the flesh has the will; the man longs to be sober, but actually is and remains a drunkard.
And never,--be it noticed,--never is he more thoroughly conscious of being a slave to himself,
than when he thus ineffectually aspires and wishes to be delivered from himself.

What has been said of drunkenness, and the aspiration to be freed from it, applies with full
force to all the sin and all the aspirations of the human soul. There is no independent and
self-realizing power in a mere aspiration. No man overcomes even his vices, except as he is
assisted by the common grace of God. The self-reliant man invariably relapses into his old
habits. He who thinks he stands is sure to fall. But when, under the influence of God's common
grace, a man aspires to be freed from the deepest of all sin, because it is the source of all
particular acts of transgression,--when he attempts to overcome and extirpate the original
and inveterate depravity of his heart,--he feels his bondage more thoroughly than ever. If
it is wretchedness for the drunkard to aspire after freedom from only a single vice, and fail
of reaching it, is it not the depth of woe, when a man comes to know "the plague of his heart,"
and his utter inability to cleanse and cure it? In this case, the bondage of self-will is found
to be absolute.

At first sight, it might seem as if these wishes and aspirations of the human spirit, faint
though they be, are proof that man is not totally depraved, and that his will is not helplessly
enslaved. So some men argue. But they forget, that these aspirations and wishes are never realized.
There is no evidence of power, except from its results. And where are the results? Who has
ever realized these wishes and aspirations, in his heart and conduct? The truth is, that every
unattained aspiration that ever swelled the human soul is proof positive, and loud, that the
human soul is in bondage. These ineffectual stirrings and impulses, which disappear like the
morning cloud and the early dew, are most affecting evidences that "whosoever committeth sin
is the slave of sin." They prove that apostate man has sunk, in one respect, to a lower level
than that of the irrational creation. For, high ideas and truths cannot raise him. Lofty impulses
result in no alteration, or elevation. Even Divine influences leave him just where they find
him, unless they are exerted in their highest grade of irresistible grace. A brute surrenders
himself to his appetites and propensities, and lives the low life of nature, without being
capable of aspirations for anything purer and nobler. But man does this very thing,--nay, immerses
himself in flesh, and sense, and self, with an entireness and intensity of which the brute
is incapable,--in the face of impulses and stirrings of mind that point him to the pure throne
of God, and urge him to soar up to it! The brute is a creature of nature, because he knows
no better, and can desire nothing better; but man is "as the beasts that perish," in spite
of a better knowledge and a loftier aspiration!

If then, you would know that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin," contemplate sin
in reference to the aspirations of an apostate spirit originally made in the image of God,
and which, because it is not eternally reprobated, is not entirely cut off from the common
influences of the Spirit of God. Never will you feel the bondage of your will more profoundly,
than when under these influences, and in your moments of seriousness and anxiety respecting
your soul's salvation, you aspire and endeavor to overcome inward sin, and find that unless
God grant you His special and renovating grace, your heart will be sinful through all eternity,
in spite of the best impulses of your best hours. These upward impulses and aspirations cannot
accompany the soul into the state of final hopelessness and despair, though Milton represents
Satan as sometimes looking back with a sigh, and a mournful memory, upon what he had once been,[4]--yet
if they should go with us there, they would make the ardor of the fire more fierce, and the
gnaw of the worm more fell. For they would help to reveal the strength of our sin, and the
intensity of our rebellion.

III. Sin is spiritual slavery, if viewed in reference to the fears of the human soul.

The sinful spirit of man fears the death of the body, and the Scriptures assert that by reason
of this particular fear we are all our lifetime in bondage. Though we know that the bodily
dissolution can have no effect upon the imperishable essence of an immortal being, yet we shrink
back from it, as if the sentence, "Dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return," had been
spoken of the spirit,--as if the worm were to "feed sweetly" upon the soul, and it were to
be buried up in the dark house of the grave. Even the boldest of us is disturbed at the thought
of bodily death, and we are always startled when the summons suddenly comes: "Set thy house
in order, for thou must die."

Again, the spirit of man fears that "fearful something after death," that eternal judgment
which must be passed upon all. We tremble at the prospect of giving an account of our own actions.
We are afraid to reap the harvest, the seed of which we have sown with our own hands. The thought
of going to a just judgment, and of receiving from the Judge of all the earth, who cannot possibly
do injustice to any of His creatures, only that which is our desert, shocks us to the centre
of our being! Man universally is afraid to be judged with a righteous judgment! Man universally
is terrified by the equitable bar of God!

Again, the apostate spirit of man has an awful dread of eternity. Though this invisible realm
is the proper home of the human soul, and it was made to dwell there forever, after the threescore
and ten years of its residence in the body are over, yet it shrinks back from an entrance into
this untried world, and clings with the desperate force of a drowning man to this "bank and
shoal of time." There are moments in the life of a guilty man when the very idea of eternal
existence exerts a preternatural power, and fills him with a dread that paralyzes him. Never
is the human being stirred to so great depths, and roused to such intensity of action, as when
it feels what the Scripture calls "the power of an endless life." All men are urged by some
ruling passion which is strong. The love of wealth, or of pleasure, or of fame, drives the
mind onward with great force, and excites it to mighty exertions to compass its end. But never
is a man pervaded by such an irresistible and overwhelming influence as that which descends
upon him in some season of religious gloom,--some hour of sickness, or danger, or death,--when
the great eternity, with all its awful realities, and all its unknown terror, opens upon his
quailing gaze. There are times in man's life, when he is the subject of movements within that
impel him to deeds that seem almost superhuman; but that internal ferment and convulsion which
is produced when all eternity pours itself through his being turns his soul up from the centre.
Man will labor convulsively, night and day, for money; he will dry up the bloom and freshness
of health, for earthly power and fame; he will actually wear his body out for sensual pleasure.
But what is the intensity and paroxysm of this activity of mind and body, if compared with
those inward struggles and throes when the overtaken and startled sinner sees the eternal world
looming into view, and with strong crying and tears prays for only a little respite, and only
a little preparation! "Millions for an inch of time,"--said the dying English Queen. "O Eternity!
Eternity! how shall I grapple with the misery that I must meet with in eternity,"--says the
man in the iron cage of Despair. This finite world has indeed great power to stir man, but
the other world has an infinitely greater power. The clouds which float in the lower regions
of the sky, and the winds that sweep them along, produce great ruin and destruction upon the
earth, but it is only when the "windows of heaven are opened" that "the fountains of the great
deep are broken up," and "all in whose nostrils is the breath of life die," and "every living
substance is destroyed which is upon the face of the ground." When fear arises in the soul
of man, in view of an eternal existence for which he is utterly unprepared, it is overwhelming.
It partakes of the immensity of eternity, and holds the man with an omnipotent grasp.

If, now, we view sin in relation to these great fears of death, judgment, and eternity, we
see that it is spiritual slavery, or the bondage of the will. We discover that our terror is
no more able to deliver us from the "bondage of corruption," than our aspiration is. We found
that in spite of the serious stirrings and impulses which sometimes rise within us, we still
continue immersed in sense and sin; and we shall also find that in spite of the most solemn
and awful fears of which a finite being is capable, we remain bondmen to ourselves, and our
sin. The dread that goes down into hell can no more ransom us, than can the aspiration that
goes up into heaven. Our fear of eternal woe can no more change the heart, than our wish for
eternal happiness can. We have, at some periods, faintly wished that lusts and passions had
no power over us; and perhaps we have been the subject of still higher aspirings. But we are
the same beings, still. We are the same self-willed and self-enslaved sinners, yet. We have
all our lifetime feared death, judgment, and eternity, and under the influence of this fear
we have sometimes resolved and promised to become Christians. But we are the very same beings,
still; we are the same self-willed and self-enslaved sinners yet.

Oh, never is the human spirit more deeply conscious of its bondage to its darling iniquity,
than when these paralyzing fears shut down upon it, like night, with "a horror of great darkness."
When under their influence, the man feels most thoroughly and wretchedly that his sin is his
ruin, and yet his sinful determination continues on, because "whosoever committeth sin is the
slave of sin," Has it never happened that, in "the visions of the night when deep sleep falleth
upon men," a spirit passed before your face, like that which stood still before the Temanite;
and there was silence, and a voice saying, "Man! Man! thou must die, thou must be judged, thou
must inhabit eternity?" And when the spirit had departed, and while the tones of its solemn
and startling cry were still rolling through your soul, did not a temptation to sin solicit
you, and did you not drink in its iniquity like water? Have you not found out, by mournful
experience, that the most anxious forebodings of the human spirit, the most alarming fears
of the human soul, and the most solemn warnings that come forth from eternity, have no prevailing
power over your sinful nature, but that immediately after experiencing them, and while your
whole being is still quivering under their agonizing touch, you fall, you rush, into sin? Have
you not discovered that even that most dreadful of all fears,--the fear of the holy wrath of
almighty God,--is not strong enough to save you from yourself? Do you know that your love of
sin has the power to stifle and overcome the mightiest of your fears, when you are strongly
tempted to self-indulgence? Have you no evidence, in your own experience, of the truth of the
poet's words:

"The Sensual and the Dark rebel in vain, Slaves by their own compulsion."

If, then, you would know that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin," contemplate sin
in relation to the fears which of necessity rest upon a spirit capable, as yours is, of knowing
that it must leave the body, that it must receive a final sentence at the bar of judgment,
and that eternity is its last and fixed dwelling-place. If you would know with sadness and
with profit, that sin is the enslavement of the will that originates it, consider that all
the distressing fears that have ever been in your soul, from the first, have not been able
to set you free in the least from innate depravity: but, that in spite of them all your will
has been steadily surrendering itself, more and more, to the evil principle of self-love and
enmity to God. Call to mind the great fight of anguish and terror which you have sometimes
waged with sin, and see how sin has always been victorious. Remember that you have often dreaded
death,--but you are unjust still. Remember that you have often trembled at the thought of eternal
judgment,--but you are unregenerate still. Remember that you have often started back, when
the holy and retributive eternity dawned like the day of doom upon you,--but you are impenitent
still. If you view your own personal sin in reference to your own personal fears, are you not
a slave to it? Will or can your fears, mighty as they sometimes are, deliver you from the bondage
of corruption, and lift you above that which you love with all your heart, and strength, and might?

It is perfectly plain, then, that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin," whether we
have regard to the feeling of obligation to be perfectly holy which is in the human conscience;
or to the ineffectual aspirations which sometimes arise in the human spirit; or to the dreadful
fears which often fall upon it. Sin must have brought the human will into a real and absolute
bondage, if the deep and solemn sense of indebtedness to moral law; if the "thoughts that wander
through eternity;" if the aspirations that soar to the heaven of heavens, and the fears that
descend to the very bottom of hell,--if all these combined forces and influences cannot free
it from its power.

It was remarked in the beginning of this discourse, that the bondage of sin is the result of
the reflex action of the human will upon itself. It is not a slavery imposed from without,
but from within. The bondage of sin is only a particular aspect of sin itself. The element
of servitude, like the element of blindness, or hardness, or rebelliousness, is part and particle
of that moral evil which deserves the wrath and curse of God. It, therefore, no more excuses
or palliates, than does any other self-originated quality in sin. Spiritual bondage, like spiritual
enmity to God, or spiritual ignorance of Him, or spiritual apathy towards Him, is guilt and crime.

And in closing, we desire to repeat and emphasize this truth. Whoever will enter upon that
process of self-wrestling and self-conflict which has been described, will come to a profound
sense of the truth which our Lord taught in the words of the text. All such will find and feel
that they are in slavery, and that their slavery is their condemnation. For the anxious, weary,
and heavy-laden sinner, the problem is not mysterious, because it finds its solution in the
depths of his own self-consciousness. He needs no one to clear it up for him, and he has neither
doubts nor cavils respecting it.

But, an objection always assails that mind which has not the key of an inward moral struggle
to unlock the problem for it. When Christ asserts that "whosoever committeth sin is the slave
of sin," the easy and indifferent mind is swift to draw the inference that this bondage is
its misfortune, and that the poor slave does not deserve to be punished, but to be set free.
He says as St. Paul did in another connection: "Nay verily, but let them come themselves, and
fetch us out." But this slavery is a self-enslavement. The feet of this man have not been thrust
into the stocks by another. This logician must refer everything to its own proper author, and
its own proper cause. Let this spiritual bondage, therefore, be charged upon the self that
originated it. Let it be referred to that self-will in which it is wrapped up, and of which
it is a constituent element. It is a universally received maxim, that the agent is responsible
for the consequences of a voluntary act, as well as for the act itself. If, therefore, the
human will has inflicted a suicidal blow upon itself, and one of the consequences of its own
determination is a total enslavement of itself to its own determination, then this enslaving
result of the act, as well the act itself, must all go in to constitute and swell the sum-total
of human guilt. The miserable drunkard, therefore, cannot be absolved from the drunkard's condemnation,
upon the plea that by a long series of voluntary acts he has, in the end, so enslaved himself
that no power but God's grace can save him. The marble-hearted fiend in hell, the absolutely
lost spirit in despair, cannot relieve his torturing sense of guilt, by the reflection that
he has at length so hardened his own heart that he cannot repent. The unforced will of a moral
being must be held responsible for both its direct, and its reflex action; for both its sin,
and its bondage in sin.

The denial of guilt, then, is not the way out. He who takes this road "kicks against the goads."
And he will find their stabs thickening, the farther he travels, and the nearer he draws to
the face and eyes of God. But there is a way out. It is the way of self-knowledge and confession.
This is the point upon which all the antecedents of salvation hinge. He who has come to know,
with a clear discrimination, that he is in a guilty bondage to his own inclination and lust,
has taken the very first step towards freedom. For, the Redeemer, the Almighty Deliverer, is
near the captive, so soon as the captive feels his bondage and confesses it. The mighty God
walking upon the waves of this sinful, troubled life, stretches out His arm, the very instant
any sinking soul cries, "Lord save me." And unless that appeal and confession of helplessness
is made, He, the Merciful and the Compassionate, will let the soul go down before His own eyes
to the unfathomed abyss. If the sinking Peter had not uttered that cry, the mighty hand of
Christ would not have been stretched forth. All the difficulties disappear, so soon as a man
understands the truth of the Divine affirmation: "O Israel thou hast destroyed thyself,"--it
is a real destruction, and it is thy own work,--"but in ME is thy help."

[Footnote 1: MILTON: Samson Agonistes, 832-834.--One key to the solution of the problem, how
there can be bondage in the very seat of freedom,--how man can be responsible for sin, yet
helpless in it,--is to be found in this fact of a reflex action of the will upon itself, or,
a reaction of self-action. Philosophical speculation upon the nature of the human will has
not, hitherto, taken this fact sufficiently into account. The following extracts corroborate
the view presented above. "My will the enemy held, and thence had made a chain for me, and
bound me. For, of a perverse will comes lust; and a lust yielded to becomes custom; and custom
not resisted becomes necessity. By which links, as it were, joined together as in a chain,
a hard bondage held me enthralled." AUGUSTINE: Confessions, VIII. v. 10. "Every degree of inclination
contrary to duty, which is and must be sinful, implies and involves an equal degree of difficulty
and inability to obey. For, indeed, such inclination of the heart to disobey, and the difficulty
or inability to obey, are precisely one and the same. This kind of difficulty or inability,
therefore, always is great according to the strength and fixedness of the inclination to disobey;
and it becomes total and absolute [inability], when the heart is totally corrupt and wholly
opposed to obedience.... No man can act contrary to his present inclination or choice. But
who ever imagined that this rendered his inclination and choice innocent and blameless, however
wrong and unreasonable it might be." SAMUEL HOPKINS: Works, I. 233-235. "Moral inability" is
the being "unable to be willing." EDWARDS: Freedom of the Will, Part I, sect. iv. "Propensities,"--says
a writer very different from those above quoted,--"that are easily surmounted lead us unresistingly
on; we yield to temptations so trivial that we despise their danger. And so we fall into perilous
situations from which we might easily have preserved ourselves, but from which we now find
it impossible to extricate ourselves without efforts so superhuman as to terrify us, and we
finally fall into the abyss, saying to the Almighty, 'Why hast Thou made me so weak?' But notwithstanding
our vain pretext, He addresses our conscience, saying, 'I have made thee too weak to rise from
the pit, because I made thee strong enough not to fall therein." ROUSSEAU: Confessions, Book II.]

[Footnote 2: Romans vii. 9-11.]

[Footnote 3: Some of the Schoolmen distinguished carefully between the two things, and denominated
the former, velleitas, and the latter, voluntas.]

[Footnote 4: MILTON: Paradise Lost, IV. 23-25; 35-61.]

THE ORIGINAL AND THE ACTUAL RELATION OF MAN TO LAW.

ROMANS vii. 10.--"The commandment which, was ordained to life, I found to be unto death."

The reader of St. Paul's Epistles is struck with the seemingly disparaging manner in which
he speaks of the moral law. In one place, he tells his reader that "the law entered that the
offence might abound;" in another, that "the law worketh wrath;" in another, that "sin shall
not have dominion" over the believer because he is "not under the law;" in another, that Christians
"are become dead to the law;" in another, that "they are delivered from the law;" and in another,
that "the strength of sin is the law." This phraseology sounds strangely, respecting that great
commandment upon which the whole moral government of God is founded. We are in the habit of
supposing that nothing that springs from the Divine law, or is in any way connected with it,
can be evil or the occasion of evil. If the law of holiness is the strength of sin; if it worketh
wrath; if good men are to be delivered from it; what then shall be said of the law of sin?
Why is it, that St. Paul in a certain class of his representations appears to be inimical to
the ten commandments, and to warn Christians against them? "Is the law sin?" is a question
that very naturally arises, while reading some of his statements; and it is a question which
he himself asks, because he is aware that it will be likely to start in the mind of some of
his readers. And it is a question to which he replies: "God forbid. Nay I had not known sin,
but by the law."

The difficulty is only seeming, and not real. These apparently disparaging representations
of the moral law are perfectly reconcilable with that profound reverence for its authority
which St. Paul felt and exhibited, and with that solemn and cogent preaching of the law for
which he was so distinguished. The text explains and resolves the difficulty. "The commandment
which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death." The moral law, in its own nature, and
by the Divine ordination, is suited to produce holiness and happiness in the soul of any and
every man. It was ordained to life. So far as the purpose of God, and the original nature and
character of man, are concerned, the ten commandments are perfectly adapted to fill the soul
with peace and purity. In the unfallen creature, they work no wrath, neither are they the strength
of sin. If everything in man had remained as it was created, there would have been no need
of urging him to "become dead to the law," to be "delivered from the law," and not be "under
the law." Had man kept his original righteousness, it could never be said of him that "the
strength of sin is the law." On the contrary, there was such a mutual agreement between the
unfallen nature of man and the holy law of God, that the latter was the very joy and strength
of the former. The commandment was ordained to life, and it was the life and peace of holy Adam.

The original relation between man's nature and the moral law was precisely like that between
material nature and the material laws. There has been no apostasy in the system of matter,
and all things remain there as they were in the beginning of creation. The law of gravitation,
this very instant, rules as peacefully and supremely in every atom of matter, as it did on
the morning of creation. Should material nature be "delivered" from the law of gravitation,
chaos would come again. No portion of this fair and beautiful natural world needs to become
"dead" to the laws of nature. Such phraseology as this is inapplicable to the relation that
exists between the world of matter, and the system of material laws, because, in this material
sphere, there has been no revolution, no rebellion, no great catastrophe analogous to the fall
of Adam. The law here was ordained to life, and the ordinance still stands. And it shall stand
until, by the will of the Creator, these elements shall melt with fervent heat, and these heavens
shall pass away with a great noise; until a new system of nature, and a new legislation for
it, are introduced.

But the case is different with man. He is not standing where he was, when created. He is out
of his original relations to the law and government of God, and therefore that which was ordained
to him for life, he now finds to be unto death. The food which in its own nature is suited
to minister to the health and strength of the well man, becomes poison and death itself to
the sick man.

With this brief notice of the fact, that the law of God was ordained to life, and that therefore
this disparaging phraseology of St. Paul does not refer to the intrinsic nature of law, which
he expressly informs us "is holy just and good," nor to the original relation which man sustained
to it before he became a sinner, let us now proceed to consider some particulars in which the
commandment is found to be unto death, to every sinful man.

The law of God shows itself in the human soul, in the form of a sense of duty. Every man, as
he walks these streets, and engages in the business or pleasures of life, hears occasionally
the words: "Thou shalt; them shalt not." Every man, as he passes along in this earthly pilgrimage,
finds himself saying to himself: "I ought, I ought not." This is the voice of law sounding
in the conscience; and every man may know, whenever he hears these words, that he is listening
to the same authority that cut the ten commandments into the stones of Sinai, and sounded that
awful trumpet, and will one day come in power and great glory to judge the quick and dead.
Law, we say, expresses itself for man, while here upon earth, through the sense of duty. "A
sense of duty pursues us ever," said Webster, in that impressive allusion to the workings of
conscience, in the trial of the Salem murderers. This is the accusing and condemning sensation,
in and by which the written statute of God becomes a living energy, and a startling voice in
the soul. Cut into the rock of Sinai, it is a dead letter; written and printed in our Bibles,
it is still a dead letter; but wrought in this manner into the fabric of our own constitution,
waylaying us in our hours of weakness, and irresolution, and secrecy, and speaking to our inward
being in tones that are as startling as any that could be addressed to the physical ear,--undergoing
this transmutation, and becoming a continual consciousness of duty and obligation, the law
of God is more than a letter. It is a possessing spirit, and according as we obey or disobey,
it is a guardian angel, or a tormenting fiend. We have disobeyed, and therefore the sense of
duty is a tormenting sensation; the commandment which was ordained to life, is found to be
unto death.

I. In the first place, to go into the analysis, the sense of duty is a sorrow and a pain to
sinful man, because it places him under a continual restraint.

No creature can be happy, so long as he feels himself under limitations. To be checked, reined
in, and thwarted in any way, renders a man uneasy and discontented. The universal and instinctive
desire for freedom,--freedom from restraint,--is a proof of this. Every creature wishes to
follow out his inclination, and in proportion as he is hindered in so doing, and is compelled
to work counter to it, he is restless and dissatisfied.

Now the sense of duty exerts just this influence, upon sinful man. It opposes his wishes; it
thwarts his inclination; it imposes a restraint upon his spontaneous desires and appetites.
It continually hedges up his way, and seeks to stop him in the path of his choice and his pleasure.
If his inclination were only in harmony with his duty; if his desires and affections were one
with the law of God; there would be no restraint from the law. In this case, the sense of duty
would be a joy and not a sorrow, because, in doing his duty, he would be doing what he liked.
There are only two ways, whereby contentment can be introduced into the human soul. If the
Divine law could be altered so that it should agree with man's sinful inclination, he could
be happy in sin. The commandment having become like his own heart, there would, of course,
be no conflict between the two, and he might sin on forever and lap himself in Elysium. They
would bring duty and inclination into harmony, by a method that would annihilate duty, would
annihilate the eternal distinction between right and wrong, would annihilate God himself. But
this method, of course, is impossible. There can be no transmutation of law, though there can
be of a creature's character and inclination. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but the commandment
of God can never pass away. The only other mode, therefore, by which duty and inclination can
be brought into agreement, and the continual sense of restraint which renders man so wretched
be removed, is to change the inclination. The instant the desires and affections of our hearts
are transformed, so that they accord with the Divine law, the conflict between our will and
our conscience is at an end. When I come to love the law of holiness and delight in it, to
obey it is simply to follow out my inclination. And this, we have seen, is to be happy.

But such is not the state of things, in the unrenewed soul. Duty and inclination are in conflict.
Man's desires appetites and tendencies are in one direction, and his conscience is in the other.
The sense of duty holds a whip over him. He yields to his sinful inclination, finds a momentary
pleasure in so doing, and then feels the stings of the scorpion-lash. We see this operation
in a very plain and striking manner, if we select an instance where the appetite is very strong,
and the voice of conscience is very loud. Take, for example, that particular sin which most
easily besets an individual. Every man has such a sin, and knows what it is, Let him call to
mind the innumerable instances in which that particular temptation has assailed him, and he
will be startled to discover how many thousands of times the sense of duty has put a restraint
upon him. Though not in every single instance, yet in hundreds and hundreds of cases, the law
of God has uttered the, "Thou shalt not," and endeavored to prevent the consummation of that
sin. And what a wearisome experience is this. A continual forth-putting of an unlawful desire,
and an almost incessant check upon it, from a law which is hated but which is feared. For such
is the attitude of the natural heart toward the commandment. "The carnal mind is enmity against
the law of God." The two are contrary to one another; so that when the heart goes out in its
inclination, it is immediately hindered and opposed by the law. Sometimes the collision between
them is terrible, and the soul becomes; an arena of tumultuous passions. The heart and will
are intensely determined to do wrong, while the conscience is unyielding and uncompromising,
and utters its denunciations, and thunders its warnings. And what a dreadful destiny awaits
that soul, in whom this conflict and collision between the dictates of conscience, and the
desires of the heart, is to be eternal! for whom, through all eternity, the holy law of God,
which was ordained to life peace and joy, shall be found to be unto death and woe immeasurable!

II. In the second place, the sense of duty is a pain and sorrow to a sinful man, because it
demands a perpetual effort from him.

No creature likes to tug, and to lift. Service must be easy, in order to be happy. If you lay
upon the shoulders of a laborer a burden that strains his muscles almost to the point of rupture,
you put him in physical pain. His physical structure was not intended to be subjected to such
a stretch. His Creator designed that the burden should be proportioned to the power, in such
a manner that work should be play. In the garden of Eden, physical labor was physical pleasure,
because the powers were in healthy action, and the work assigned to them was not a burden.
Before the fall, man was simply to dress and keep a garden; but after the fall, he was to dig
up thorns and thistles, and eat his bread in the sweat of his face. This is a curse,--the curse
of being compelled to toil, and lift, and put the muscle to such a tension that it aches. This
is not the original and happy condition of the body, in which man was created. Look at the
toiling millions of the human family, who like the poor ant "for one small grain, labor, and
tug, and strive;" see them bending double, under the heavy weary load which they must carry
until relieved by death; and tell me if this is the physical elysium, the earthly paradise,
in which unfallen man was originally placed, and for which he was originally designed. No,
the curse of labor, of perpetual effort, has fallen upon the body, as the curse of death has
fallen upon the soul; and the uneasiness and unrest of the groaning and struggling body is
a convincing proof of it. The whole physical nature of man groaneth and travaileth in pain
together until now, waiting for the adoption, that is the redemption of the body from this
penal necessity of perpetual strain and effort.

The same fact meets us when we pass from the physical to the moral nature of man, and becomes
much more sad and impressive. By creation, it was a pleasure and a pastime for man to keep
the law of God, to do spiritual work. As created, he was not compelled to summon his energies,
and strain his will, and make a convulsive resolution to obey the commands of his Maker. Obedience
was joy. Holy Adam knew nothing of effort in the path of duty. It was a smooth and broad pathway,
fringed with flowers, and leading into the meadows of asphodel. It did not become the "straight
and narrow" way, until sin had made obedience a toil, the sense of duty a restraint, and human
life a race and a fight. By apostasy, the obligation to keep the Divine law perfectly, became
repulsive. It was no longer easy for man to do right; and it has never been easy or spontaneous
to him since. Hence, the attempt to follow the dictates of conscience always costs an unregenerate
man an effort. He is compelled to make a resolution; and a resolution is the sign and signal
of a difficult and unwelcome service. Take your own experience for an illustration. Did you
ever, except as you were sweetly inclined and drawn by the renewing grace of God, attempt to
discharge a duty, without discovering that you were averse to it, and that you must gather
up your energies for the work, as the leaper strains upon the tendon of Achilles to make the
mortal leap. And if you had not become weary, and given over the effort; if you had entered
upon that sad but salutary passage in the religious experience which is delineated in the seventh
chapter of Romans; if you had continued to struggle and strive to do your duty, until you grew
faint and weak, and powerless, and cried out for a higher and mightier power to succor you;
you would have known, as you do not yet, what a deadly opposition there is between the carnal
mind and the law of God, and what a spasmodic effort it costs an unrenewed man even to attempt
to discharge the innumerable obligations that rest upon him. Mankind would know more of this
species of toil and labor, and of the cleaving curse involved in it, if they were under the
same physical necessity in regard to it, that they lie under in respect to manual labor. A
man must dig up the thorns and thistles, he must earn his bread in the sweat of his face, or
he must die. Physical wants, hunger and thirst, set men to work physically, and keep them at
it; and thus they well understand what it is to have a weary body, aching muscles, and a tired
physical nature. But they are not under the same species of necessity, in respect to the wants
and the work of the soul. A man may neglect these, and yet live a long and luxurious life upon
the earth. He is not driven by the very force of circumstances, to labor with his heart and
will, as he is to labor with his hands. And hence he knows little or nothing of a weary and
heavy-laden soul; nothing of an aching heart and a tired will. He well knows how much strain
and effort it costs to cut down forests, open roads, and reduce the wilderness to a fertile
field; but he does not know how much toil and effort are involved, in the attempt to convert
the human soul into the garden of the Lord.

Now in this demand for a perpetual effort which is made upon the natural man, by the sense
of duty, we see that the law which was ordained to life is found to be unto death. The commandment,
instead of being a pleasant friend and companion to the human soul, as it was in the beginning,
has become a strict rigorous task-master. It lays out an uncongenial work for sinful man to
do, and threatens him with punishment and woe if he does not do it. And yet the law is not
a tyrant. It is holy, just, and good. This work which it lays out is righteous work, and ought
to be done. The wicked disinclination and aversion of the sinner have compelled the law to
assume this unwelcome and threatening attitude. That which is good was not made death to man
by God's agency, and by a Divine arrangement, but by man's transgression.[2] Sin produces this
misery in the human soul, through an instrument that is innocent, and in its own nature benevolent
and kind. Apostasy, the rebellion and corruption of the human heart, has converted the law
of God into an exacting task-master and an avenging magistrate. If man were only conformed
to the law; if the inclination of his heart were only in harmony with his sense of duty; the
ten commandments would not be accompanied with any thunders or lightnings, and the discharge
of duty would be as easy, spontaneous, and as much without effort, as the practice of sin now is.

Thus have we considered two particulars in which the Divine law, originally intended to render
man happy, and intrinsically adapted to do so, now renders him miserable. The commandment which
was ordained to life, he now finds to be unto death, because it places him under a continual
restraint, and drives him to a perpetual effort. These two particulars, we need not say, are
not all the modes in which sin has converted the moral law from a joy to a sorrow. We have
not discussed the great subject of guilt and penalty. This violated law charges home the past
disobedience and threatens an everlasting damnation, and thus fills the sinful soul with fears
and forebodings. In this way, also, the law becomes a terrible organ and instrument of misery,
and is found to be unto death. But the limits of this discourse compel us to stop the discussion
here, and to deduce some practical lessons which are suggested by it.

1. In the first place, we are taught by the subject, as thus considered, that the mere sense
of duty is not Christianity. If this is all that a man is possessed of, he is not prepared
for the day of judgment, and the future life. For the sense of duty, alone and by itself, causes
misery in a soul that has not performed its duty. The law worketh wrath, in a creature who
has not obeyed the law. The man that doeth these things shall indeed live by them; but he who
has not done them must die by them.

There have been, and still are, great mistakes made at this point. Men have supposed that an
active conscience, and a lofty susceptibility towards right and wrong, will fit them to appear
before God, and have, therefore, rejected Christ the Propitiation. They have substituted ethics
for the gospel; natural religion for revealed. "I know," says Immanuel Kant, "of but two beautiful
things; the starry heavens above my head, and the sense of duty within my heart."[3] But, is
the sense of duty beautiful to apostate man? to a being who is not conformed to it? Does the
holy law of God overarch him like the firmament, "tinged with a blue of heavenly dye, and starred
with sparkling gold?" Nay, nay. If there be any beauty in the condemning law of God, for man
the transgressor, it is the beauty of the lightnings. There is a splendor in them, but there
is a terror also. Not until He who is the end of the law for righteousness has clothed me with
His panoply, and shielded me from their glittering shafts in the clefts of the Rock, do I dare
to look at them, as they leap from crag to crag, and shine from the east even unto the west.

We do not deny that the consciousness of responsibility is a lofty one, and are by no means
insensible to the grand and swelling sentiments concerning the moral law, and human duty, to
which this noble thinker gives utterance.[4] But we are certain that if the sense of duty had
pressed upon him to the degree that it did upon St. Paul; had the commandment "come" to him
with the convicting energy that it did to St. Augustine, and to Pascal; he too would have discovered
that the law which was ordained to life is found to be unto death. So long as man stands at
a distance from the moral law, he can admire its glory and its beauty; but when it comes close
to him; when it comes home to him; when it becomes a discerner of the thoughts and intents
of the heart; then its glory is swallowed up in its terror, and its beauty is lost in its truth.
Then he who was alive without the law becomes slain by the law. Then this ethical admiration
of the decalogue is exchanged for an evangelical trust in Jesus Christ.

2. And this leads us to remark, in the second place, that this subject shows the meaning of
Christ's work of Redemption. The law for an alienated and corrupt soul is a burden. It cannot
be otherwise; for it imposes a perpetual restraint, urges up to an unwelcome duty, and charges
home a fearful guilt. Christ is well named the Redeemer, because He frees the sinful soul from
all this. He delivers it from the penalty, by assuming it all upon Himself, and making complete
satisfaction to the broken law. He delivers it from the perpetual restraint and the irksome
effort, by so renewing and changing the heart that it becomes a delight to keep the law. We
observed, in the first part of the discourse, that if man could only bring the inclination
of his heart into agreement with his sense of duty, he would be happy in obeying, and the consciousness
of restraint and of hateful effort would disappear. This is precisely what Christ accomplishes
by His Spirit. He brings the human heart into harmony with the Divine law, as it was in the
beginning, and thus rescues it from its bondage and its toil. Obedience becomes a pleasure,
and the service of God, the highest Christian liberty. Oh, would that by the act of faith,
you might experience this liberating effect of the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. So long
as you are out of Christ, you are under a burden that will every day grow heavier, and may
prove to be fixed and unremovable as the mountains. That is a fearful punishment which the
poet Dante represents as being inflicted upon those who were guilty of pride. The poor wretches
are compelled to support enormous masses of stone which bend them over to the ground, and,
in his own stern phrase, "crumple up their knees into their breasts." Thus they stand, stooping
over, every muscle trembling, the heavy stone weighing them down, and yet they are not permitted
to fall, and rest themselves upon the earth.[5] In this crouching posture, they must carry
the weary heavy load without relief, and with a distress so great that, in the poet's own language,

                                   "it seemed
    As he, who showed most patience in his look,
    Wailing exclaimed: I can endure no more."[6]

Such is the posture of man unredeemed. There is a burden on him, under which he stoops and
crouches. It is a burden compounded of guilt and corruption. It is lifted off by Christ, and
by Christ only. The soul itself can never expiate its guilt; can never cleanse its pollution.
We urge you, once more, to the act of faith in the Redeemer of the world. We beseech you, once
more, to make "the redemption that is in Christ Jesus" your own. The instant you plead the
merit of Christ's oblation, in simple confidence in its atoning efficacy, that instant the
heavy burden is lifted off by an Almighty hand, and your curved, stooping, trembling, aching
form once more stands erect, and you walk abroad in the liberty wherewith Christ makes the
human creature free.

[Footnote 1:
                               "She in vice
    Of luxury was so shameless, that she made
    Liking to be lawful by promulged decree,
    To clear the blame she had herself incurr'd."
    DANTE: Inferno, v. 56.]

[Footnote 2: Romans vii. 13, 14.]

[Footnote 3: KANT: Kritik der Praktischen Vernunft (Beschlusz).--De Stael's rendering, which
is so well known, and which I have employed, is less guarded than the original.]

[Footnote 4: Compare the fine apostrophe to Duty. PRAKTISCHE VERNUNFT, p. 214, (Ed. Rosenkranz.)]

[Footnote 5: "Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway."
Rom. xi. 10.]

[Footnote 6: DANTE: Purgatory x. 126-128.]

THE SIN OF OMISSION.

Matthew xix. 20.--"The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth
up: what lack I yet?"

The narrative from which the text is taken is familiar to all readers of the Bible. A wealthy
young man, of unblemished morals and amiable disposition, came to our Lord, to inquire His
opinion respecting his own good estate. He asked what good thing he should do, in order to
inherit eternal life. The fact that he applied to Christ at all, shows that he was not entirely
at rest in his own mind. He could truly say that he had kept the ten commandments from his
youth up, in an outward manner; and yet he was ill at ease. He was afraid that when the earthly
life was over, he might not be able to endure the judgment of God, and might fail to enter
into that happy paradise of which the Old Testament Scriptures so often speak, and of which
he had so often read, in them. This young man, though a moralist, was not a self-satisfied
or a self-conceited one. For, had he been like the Pharisee a thoroughly blinded and self-righteous
person, like him he never would have approached Jesus of Nazareth, to obtain His opinion respecting
his own religious character and prospects. Like him, he would have scorned to ask our Lord's
judgment upon any matters of religion. Like the Pharisees, he would have said, "We see,"[1]
and the state of his heart and his future prospects would have given him no anxiety. But he
was not a conceited and presumptuous Pharisee. He was a serious and thoughtful person, though
not a pious and holy one. For, he did not love God more than he loved his worldly possessions.
He was not right at heart, and was therefore unprepared for death and judgment. This he seems
to have had some dim apprehension of. For why, if he had felt that his external morality was
a solid rock for his feet to stand upon, why should he have betaken himself to Jesus of Nazareth,
to ask: "What lack I yet?"

It was not what he had done, but what he had left undone, that wakened fears and forebodings
in this young ruler's mind. The outward observance of the ten commandments was right and well
in its own way and place; but the failure to obey, from the heart, the first and great command
was the condemnation that rested upon him. He probably knew this, in some measure. He was not
confidently certain of eternal life; and therefore he came to the Great Teacher, hoping to
elicit from Him an answer that would quiet his conscience, and allow him to repose upon his
morality while he continued to love this world supremely. The Great Teacher pierced him with
an arrow. This direction showed him what he lacked.

This incident leads us to consider the condemnation that rests upon every man, for his failure
in duty; the guilt that cleaves to him, on account of what he has not done. The Westminster
Catechism defines sin to be "any want of conformity unto, or any transgression of, the law
of God." Not to be conformed, in the heart, to the law and will of God, is as truly sin, as
positively to steal, or positively to commit murder. Failure to come up to the line of rectitude
is as punishable, as to step over that line. God requires of His creature that he stand squarely
upon the line of righteousness; if therefore he is off that line, because he has not come up
to it, he is as guilty as when he transgresses, or passes across it, upon the other side. This
is the reason that the sin of omission is as punishable as the sin of commission. In either
case alike, the man is off the line of rectitude. Hence, in the final day, man will be condemned
for what he lacks, for what he comes short of, in moral character. Want of conformity to the
Divine law as really conflicts with the Divine law, as an overt transgression does, because
it carries man off and away from it. One of the Greek words for sin [Greek: (amurtanein)] signifies,
to miss the mark. When the archer shoots at the target, he as really fails to strike it, if
his arrow falls short of it, as when he shoots over and beyond it. If he strains upon the bow
with such a feeble force, that the arrow drops upon the ground long before it comes up to the
mark, his shot is as total a failure, as when he strains upon the bow-string with all his force,
but owing to an ill-directed aim sends his weapon into the air. One of the New Testament terms
for sin contains this figure and illustration, in its etymology. Sin is a want of conformity
unto, a failure to come clear up to, the line and mark prescribed by God, as well a violent
and forcible breaking over and beyond the line and the mark. The lack of holy love, the lack
of holy fear, the lack of filial trust and confidence in God,--the negative absence of these
and other qualities in the heart is as truly sin and guilt, as is the positive and open violation
of a particular commandment, in the act of theft, or lying, or Sabbath-breaking.

We propose, then, to direct attention to that form and aspect of human depravity which consists
in coming short of the aim and end presented to man by his Maker,--that form and aspect of
sin which is presented in the young ruler's inquiry: "What lack I yet?"

It is a comprehensive answer to this question to say, that every natural man lacks sincere
and filial love of God. This was the sin of the moral, but worldly, the amiable, but earthly-minded,
young man. Endow him, in your fancy, with all the excellence you please, it still lies upon
the face of the narrative, that he loved money more than he loved the Lord God Almighty. When
the Son of God bade him go and sell his property, and give it to the poor, and then come and
follow Him as a docile disciple like Peter and James and John, he went away sad in his mind;
for he had great possessions. This was a reasonable requirement, though a very trying one.
To command a young man of wealth and standing immediately to strip himself of all his property,
to leave the circle in which he had been born and brought up, and to follow the Son of Man,
who had not where to lay His head, up and down through Palestine, through good report and through
evil report,--to put such a burden upon such a young man was to lay him under a very heavy
load. Looking at it from a merely human and worldly point of view, it is not strange that the
young ruler declined to take it upon his shoulders; though he felt sad in declining, because
he had the misgiving that in declining he was sealing his doom. But, had he loved the Lord
God with all his heart; had he been conformed unto the first and great command, in his heart
and affections; had he not lacked a spiritual and filial affection towards his Maker; he would
have obeyed.

For, the circumstances under which this command was given must be borne in mind. It issued
directly from the lips of the Son of God Himself. It was not an ordinary call of Providence,
in the ordinary manner in which God summons man to duty. There is reason to suppose that the
young ruler knew and felt that Christ had authority to give such directions. We know not what
were precisely his views of the person and office of Jesus of Nazareth; but the fact that he
came to Him seeking instruction respecting the everlasting kingdom of God and the endless life
of the soul, and the yet further fact that he went away in sadness because he did not find
it in his heart to obey the instructions that he had received, prove that he was at least somewhat
impressed with the Divine authority of our Lord. For, had he regarded Him as a mere ordinary
mortal, knowing no more than any other man concerning the eternal kingdom of God, why should
His words have distressed him? Had this young ruler taken the view of our Lord which was held
by the Scribes and Pharisees, like them he would never have sought instruction from Him in
a respectful and sincere manner; and, like them, he would have replied to the command to strip
himself of all his property, leave the social circles to which he belonged, and follow the
despised Nazarene, with the curling lip of scorn. He would not have gone away in sorrow, but
in contempt. We must assume, therefore, that this young ruler felt that the person with whom
he was conversing, and who had given him this extraordinary command, had authority to give
it. We do not gather from the narrative that he doubted upon this point. Had he doubted, it
would have relieved the sorrow with which his mind was disturbed. He might have justified his
refusal to obey, by the consideration that this Jesus of Nazareth had no right to summon him,
or any other man, to forsake the world and attach himself to His person and purposes, if any
such consideration had entered his mind.

Though the command was indeed an extraordinary one, it was given in an extraordinary manner,
by an extraordinary Being. That young ruler was not required to do any more than you and I
would be obligated to do, in the same circumstances. It is indeed true, that in the ordinary
providence of God, you and I are not summoned to sell all our possessions, and distribute them
to the poor, and to go up and down the streets of this city, or up and down the high-ways and
by-ways of the land, as missionaries of Christ. But if the call were extra-ordinary,--if the
heavens should open above our heads, and a voice from the skies should command us in a manner
not to be doubted or disputed to do this particular thing, we ought immediately to do it. And
if the love of God were in our hearts; if we were inwardly "conformed unto" the Divine law;
if there were nothing lacking in our religious character; we should obey with the same directness
and alacrity with which Peter and Andrew, and James and John, left their nets and their fishing-boat,
their earthly avocations, their fathers and their fathers' households, and followed Christ
to the end of their days. In the present circumstances of the church and the world, Christians
must follow the ordinary indications of Divine Providence; and though these do unquestionably
call upon them to make far greater sacrifices for the cause of Christ than they now make, yet
they do not call upon them to sell all that they have, and give it to the poor. But they ought
to be ready and willing to do so, in case God by any remarkable and direct expression should
indicate that this is His will and pleasure. The direct and explicit command of the Lord Jesus
Christ to do any particular thing must be obeyed at all hazards, and at all cost. Should He
command any one of His disciples to lay down his life, or to undergo a severe discipline and
experience in His service, He must be obeyed. 26, 27).

The young ruler was subjected to this test. It was his privilege,--and it was a great privilege,--to
see the Son of God face to face; to hear His words of wisdom and authority; to know without
any doubt or ambiguity what particular thing God would have him do. And he refused to do it.
He was moral; he was amiable; but he refused point-blank to obey the direct command of God
addressed to him from the very lips of God. It was with him as it would be with us, if the
sky should open over our heads, and the Son of God should descend, and with His own lips should
command us to perform a particular service, and we should be disobedient to the heavenly vision,
and should say to the Eternal Son of God: "We will not." Think you that there is nothing lacking
in such a character as this? Is this religious perfection? Is such a heart as this "conformed
unto" the law and will of God?

If, then, we look into the character of the young ruler, we perceive that there was in it no
supreme affection for God. On the contrary, he loved himself with all his heart, and soul,
and mind, and strength. Even his religious anxiety, which led him to our Lord for His opinion
concerning his good estate, proved to be a merely selfish feeling. He desired immortal felicity
beyond the tomb,--and the most irreligious man upon earth desires this,--but he did not possess
such an affection for God as inclined, and enabled, him to obey His explicit command to make
a sacrifice of his worldly possessions for His glory. And this lack of supreme love to God
was sin. It was a deviation from the line of eternal rectitude and righteousness, as really
and truly as murder, adultery, or theft, or any outward breach of any of those commandments
which he affirmed he had kept from his youth up. This coming short of the Divine honor and
glory was as much contrary to the Divine law, as any overt transgression of it could be.

For love is the fulfilling of the law. To be destitute of this heavenly affection is, therefore,
to break the law at the very centre and in the very substance of it. Men tell us, like this
young ruler, that they do not murder, lie, or steal,--that they observe all the commandments
of the second table pertaining to man and their relations to man,--and ask, "What lack we yet?"
Alexander Pope, in the most brilliant and polished poetry yet composed by human art, sums up
the whole of human duty in the observance of the rules and requirements of civil morality,
and affirms that "an honest man is the noblest work of God." But is this so? Has religion reached
its last term, and ultimate limit, when man respects the rights of property? Is a person who
keeps his hands off the goods and chattels of his fellow-creature really qualified for the
heavenly state, by reason of this fact and virtue of honesty? Has he attained the chief end
of man?[2] Even if we could suppose a perfect obedience of all the statutes of the second table,
while those of the first table were disobeyed; even if one could fulfil all his obligations
to his neighbor, while failing in all his obligations to his Maker; even if we should concede
a perfect morality, without any religion; would it be true that this morality, or obedience
of only one of the two tables that cover the whole field of human duty, is sufficient to prepare
man for the everlasting future, and the immediate presence of God? Who has informed man that
the first table of the law is of no consequence; and that if he only loves his neighbor as
himself, he need not love his Maker supremely?

No! Affection in the heart towards the great and glorious God is the sum and substance of religion,
and whoever is destitute of it is irreligious and sinful in the inmost spirit, and in the highest
degree. His fault relates to the most excellent and worthy Being in the universe. He comes
short of his duty, in reference to that Being who more than any other one is entitled to his
love and his services. We say, and we say correctly, that if a man fails of fulfilling his
obligations towards those who have most claims upon him, he is more culpable than when he fails
of his duty towards those who have less claims upon him. If a son comes short of his duty towards
an affectionate and self-sacrificing mother, we say it is a greater fault, than if he comes
short of his duty to a fellow-citizen. The parent is nearer to him than the citizen, and he
owes unto her a warmer affection of his heart, and a more active service of his life, than
he owes to his fellow-citizen. What would be thought of that son who should excuse his neglect,
or ill-treatment, of the mother that bore him, upon the ground that he had never cheated a
fellow-man and had been scrupulous in all his mercantile transactions! This but feebly illustrates
the relation which every man sustains to God, and the claim which God has upon every man. Our
first duty and obligation relates to our Maker. Our fellow-creatures have claims upon us; the
dear partners of our blood have claims upon us; our own personality, with its infinite destiny
for weal or woe, has claims upon us. But no one of these; not all of them combined; have upon
us that first claim, which God challenges for Himself. Social life,--the state or the nation
to which we belong,--cannot say to us: "Thou shalt love me with all thy heart, and soul, and
mind, and strength." The family, which is bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh, cannot
say to us: "Thou shalt love us, with all thy soul, mind, heart, and strength." Even our own
deathless and priceless soul cannot say to us: "Thou shalt love me supremely, and before all
other beings and things." But the infinite and adorable God, the Being that made us, and has
redeemed us, can of right demand that we love and honor Him first of all, and chiefest of all.

There are two thoughts suggested by the subject which we have been considering, to which we
now invite candid attention.

1. In the first place, this subject convicts every man of sin. Our Lord, by his searching reply
to the young ruler's question, "What lack I yet?" sent him away very sorrowful; and what man,
in any age and country, can apply the same test to himself, without finding the same unwillingness
to sell all that he has and give to the poor,--the same indisposition to obey any and every
command of God that crosses his natural inclinations? Every natural man, as he subjects his
character to such a trial as that to which the young ruler was subjected, will discover as
he did that he lacks supreme love of God, and like him, if he has any moral earnestness; if
he feels at all the obligation of duty; will go away very sorrowful, because he perceives very
plainly the conflict between his will and his conscience. How many a person, in the generations
that have already gone to the judgment-seat of Christ, and in the generation that is now on
the way thither, has been at times brought face to face with the great and first command, "Thou
shall love the Lord thy God with all thy heart," and by some particular requirement has been
made conscious of his utter opposition to that great law. Some special duty was urged upon
him, by the providence, or the word, or the Spirit of God, that could not be performed unless
his will were subjected to God's will, and unless his love for himself and the world were subordinated
to his love of his Maker. If a young man, perhaps he was commanded to consecrate his talents
and education to a life of philanthropy and service of God in the gospel, instead of a life
devoted to secular and pecuniary aims. God said to him, by His providence, and by conscience,
"Go teach my gospel to the perishing; go preach my word, to the dying and the lost." But he
loved worldly ease pleasure and reputation more than he loved God; and he refused, and went
away sorrowful, because this poor world looked very bright and alluring, and the path of self-denial
and duty looked very forbidding. Or, if he was a man in middle life, perhaps he was commanded
to abate his interest in plans for the accumulation of wealth, to contract his enterprises,
to give attention to the concerns of his soul and the souls of his children, to make his own
peace with God, and to consecrate the remainder of his life to Christ and to human welfare;
and when this plain and reasonable course of conduct was dictated to him, he found his whole
heart rising up against the proposition. Our Lord, alluding to the fact that there was nothing
in common between His spirit, and the spirit of Satan, said to His disciples, "The prince of
this world cometh, and hath nothing in me" (John xiv. 30). So, when the command to love God
supremely comes to this man of the world, in any particular form, "it hath nothing in him."
This first and great law finds no ready and genial response within his heart, but on the contrary
a recoil within his soul as if some great monster had started up in his pathway. He says, in
his mind, to the proposition: "Anything but that;" and, with the young ruler, he goes away
sorrowful, because he knows that refusal is perdition.

Is there not a wonderful power to convict of sin, in this test? But ask yourself the question,
"Do I love God supremely, and am I ready and willing to do any and every particular thing that
He shall command me to do, even if it is plucking out a right eye, or cutting off a right hand,
or selling all my goods to give to the poor?" try yourself by this test, and see if you lack
anything in your moral character. When this thorough and proper touch-stone of character is
applied, there is not found upon earth a just man that doeth good and sinneth not. Every human
creature, by this test is concluded under sin. This sum and substance of the Divine law, upon
which hang all the other laws, convinces every man of sin. For there is no escaping its force.
Love of God is a distinct and definite feeling, and every person knows whether he ever experienced
it. Every man knows whether it is, or is not, an affection of his heart; and he knows that
if it be wanting, the foundation of religion is wanting in his soul, and the sum and substance
of sin is there.

2. And this leads to the second and concluding thought suggested, by the subject, namely, that
except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. If there be any truth in the
discussion through which we have passed, it is plain and incontrovertible, that to be destitute
of holy love to God is a departure and deviation from the moral law. It is a coming short of
the great requirement that rests upon every accountable creature of God, and this is as truly
sin and guilt as any violent and open passing over and beyond the line of rectitude. The sin
of omission is as deep and damning as the sin of commission. "Forgive,"--said the dying archbishop
Usher,--"forgive all my sins, especially my sins of omission."

But, how is this lack to be supplied? How is this great hiatus in human character to be filled
up? How shall the fountain of holy and filial affection towards God be made to gush up into
everlasting life, within your now unloving and hostile heart? There is no answer to this question
of questions, but in the Person and Work of the Holy Ghost. If God shall shed abroad His love
in your heart, by the Holy Ghost which is given unto you, you will know the blessedness of
a new affection; and will be able to say with Peter, "Thou knowest all things; thou knowest
that I love thee." You are shut up to this method, and this influence. To generate within yourself
this new spiritual emotion which you have never yet felt, is utterly impossible. Yet you must
get it, or religion, is impossible, and immortal life is impossible. Would that you might feel
your straits, and your helplessness. Would that you might perceive your total lack of supreme
love of God, as the young ruler perceived his; and would that, unlike him, instead, of going
away from the Son of God, you would go to Him, crying, "Lord create within me a clean heart,
and renew within me a right spirit." Then the problem would be solved, and having peace with
God through the blood of Christ, the love of God would be shed abroad in your hearts, through
the Holy Ghost given unto you.

[Footnote 1: John ix. 41.]

[Footnote 2: Even if we should widen the meaning of the word "honest," in the above-mentioned
dictum of Pope, and make it include the Latin "honestum," the same objection would lie against
dictum. Honor and high-mindedness towards man is not love and reverence towards God. The spirit
of chivalry is not the spirit of Christianity.]

THE SINFULNESS OF ORIGINAL SIN.

In the preceding discourse from these words, we discussed that form and aspect of sin which
consists in "coming short" of the Divine Law; or, as the Westminster Creed states it, in a
"want of conformity" unto it. The deep and fundamental sin of the young ruler, we found, lay
in what he lacked. When our Lord tested him, he proved to be utterly destitute of love to God.
His soul was a complete vacuum, in reference to that great holy affection which fills the hearts
of all the good beings before the throne of God, and without which no creature can stand, or
will wish to stand, in the Divine presence. The young ruler, though outwardly moral and amiable,
when searched in the inward parts was found wanting in the sum and substance of religion. He
did not love God; and he did love himself and his possessions.

What man has omitted to do, what man is destitute of,--this is a species of sin which he does
not sufficiently consider, and which is weighing him down to perdition. The unregenerate person
when pressed to repent of his sins, and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, often beats back
the kind effort, by a question like that which Pilate put to the infuriated Jews: "Why, what
evil have I done?" It is the subject of his actual and overt transgressions that comes first
into his thoughts, and, like the young ruler, he tells his spiritual friend and adviser that
he has kept all the commandments from his youth up. The conviction of sin would be more common
if the natural man would consider his failures; if he would look into his heart and perceive
what he is destitute of, and into his conduct and see what he has left undone.

In pursuing this subject, we propose to show, still further, the guiltiness of every man, from
the fact that he lacks the original righteousness that once belonged to him. We shall endeavor
to prove that every child of Adam is under condemnation, or, in the words of Christ, that "the
wrath of God abides upon him" (John iii. 36), because he is not possessed of that pure and
perfect character which, his Maker gave him in the beginning. Man is culpable for not continuing
to stand upon the high and sinless position, in which he was originally placed. When the young
ruler's question is put to the natural man, and the inquiry is made as to his defects and deficiency,
it is invariably discovered that he lacks the image of God in which he was created. And for
a rational being to be destitute of the image of God is sin, guilt, and condemnation, because
every rational being has once received this image.

God has the right to demand from every one of his responsible creatures, all that the creature
might be, had he retained possession of the endowments which he received at creation, and had
he employed them with fidelity. The perfect gifts and capacities originally bestowed upon man,
and not the mutilated and damaged powers subsequently arising from a destructive act of self-will,
furnish the proper rule of measurement, in estimating human merit or demerit. The faculties
of intelligence and will as unfallen, and not as fallen, determine the amount of holiness and
of service that may be demanded, upon principles of strict justice, from every individual.
All that man "comes short" of this is so much sin, guilt, and condemnation.

When the great Sovereign and Judge looks down from His throne of righteousness and equity,
upon any one of the children of men, He considers what that creature was by creation, and compares
his present character and conduct with the character with which he was originally endowed,
and the conduct that would naturally have flowed therefrom. God made man holy and perfect.
God created man in his own image (Gen. i. 26), "endued with knowledge, righteousness, and true
holiness, having the law of God written in his heart, and power to fulfil it." This is the
statement of the Creed which we accept as a fair and accurate digest of the teachings of Revelation,
respecting the primitive character of man, and his original righteousness. And all evangelical
creeds, however they may differ from each other in their definitions of original righteousness,
and their estimate of the perfections and powers granted to man by creation, do yet agree that
he stood higher when he came from the hand of God than he now stands; that man's actual character
and conduct do not come up to man's created power and capacities. Solemn and condemning as
it is, it is yet a fact, that inasmuch as every man was originally made in the holy image of
God, he ought, this very instant to be perfectly holy. He ought to be standing upon a position
that is as high above his actual position, as the heavens are high above the earth. He ought
to be possessed of a moral perfection without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing. He ought
to be as he was, when created in righteousness and true holiness. He ought to be dwelling high
up on those lofty and glorious heights where he was stationed by the benevolent hand of his
Maker, instead of wallowing in those low depths where he has fallen by an act of apostasy and
rebellion. Nothing short of this satisfies the obligations that are resting upon him. An imperfect
holiness, such as the Christian is possessed of while here upon earth, does not come up to
the righteous requirement of the moral law; and certainly that kind of moral character which
belongs to the natural man is still farther off from the sum-total that is demanded.

Let us press this truth, that we may feel its convicting and condemning energy. When our Maker
speaks to us upon the subject of His claims and our obligations, He tells us that when we came
forth from nonentity into existence, from His hand, we were well endowed, and well furnished.
He tells us distinctly, that He did not create us the depraved and sinful beings that we now
are. He tells us that these earthly affections, this carnal mind, this enmity towards the Divine
law, this disinclination towards religion and spiritual concerns, this absorbing love of the
world and this supreme love of self,--that these were not implanted or infused into the soul
by our wise, holy, and good Creator. This is not His work. This is no part of the furniture
with which mankind were set up for an everlasting existence. "God saw everything that he had
made, and behold it was very good." (Gen. i. 31). We acknowledge the mystery that overhangs
the union and connection of all men with the first man. We know that this corruption of man's
nature, and this sinfulness of his heart, does indeed, appear at the very beginning of his
individual life. He is conceived in sin, and shapen in iniquity (Ps. li. 5). This selfish disposition,
and this alienation of the heart from God, is native depravity, is inborn corruption. This
we know both from Revelation, and observation. But we also know, from the same infallible Revelation,
that though man is born a sinner from the sinful Adam, he was created a saint in the holy Adam.
By origin he is holy, and by descent he is sinful; because there has intervened, between his
creation and his birth, that "offence of one man whereby all men were made sinners" (Rom. v.
18, 19). Though we cannot unravel the whole mystery of this subject, yet if we accept the revealed
fact, and concede that God did originally make man in His own image, in righteousness and true
holiness, and that man has since unmade himself, by the act of apostasy and rebellion,[1]--if
we take this as the true and correct statement of the facts in the case, then we can see how
and why it is, that God has claims upon His creature, man, that extend to what this creature
originally was and was capable of becoming, and not merely to what he now is, and is able to
perform.

When, therefore, the young ruler's question, "What lack I?" is asked and answered upon a broad
scale, each and every man must say: "I lack original righteousness; I lack the holiness with
which God created man; I lack that perfection of character which belonged to my rational and
immortal nature coming fresh from the hand of God in the person of Adam; I lack all that I
should now be possessed of, had that nature not apostatized from its Maker and its Sovereign."
And when God forms His estimate of man's obligations; when He lays judgment to the line, and
righteousness to the plummet; He goes back to the beginning, He goes back to creation, and
demands from His rational and immortal creature that perfect service which, he was capable
of rendering by creation, but which now he is unable to render because of subsequent apostasy.
For, God cannot adjust His demands to the alterations which sinful man makes in himself. This
would be to annihilate all demands and obligations. A sliding-scale would be introduced, by
this method, that would reduce human duty by degrees to a minimum, where it would disappear.
For, the more sinful a creature becomes, the less inclined, and consequently the less able
does he become to obey the law of God. If, now, the Eternal Judge shapes His requisitions in
accordance with the shifting character of His creature, and lowers His law down just as fast
as the sinner enslaves himself to lust and sin, it is plain that sooner or later all moral
obligation will run out; and whenever the creature becomes totally enslaved to self and flesh,
there will no longer be any claims resting upon him. But this cannot be so. When the settlement
was made. Each and every one of the parties was righteously summoned to account for all that
had originally been intrusted to him, and to show a faithful improvement of the same. If any
one of the servants had been found to have "lacked" a part, or the whole, of the original treasure,
because he had culpably lost it, think you that the fact that it was now gone from his possession,
and was past recovery, would have been accepted as a valid excuse from the original obligations
imposed upon him? In like manner, the fact, that man cannot reinstate himself in his original
condition of holiness and blessedness, from which he has fallen by apostasy, will not suffice
to justify him before God for being in a helpless state of sin and misery, or to give him any
claims upon God for deliverance from it. God can and does pity him, in his ruined and lost
estate, and if the creature will cast himself upon His mercy, acknowledging the righteousness
of the entire claims of God upon him for a sinless perfection and a perfect service, he will
meet and find mercy. But if he takes the ground that he does not owe such an immense debt as
this, and that God has no right to demand from him, in his apostate and helpless condition,
the same perfection of character and obedience which holy Adam possessed and rendered, and
which the unfallen angels possess and render, God will leave him to the workings of conscience,
and the operations of stark unmitigated law and justice. "The kingdom of heaven,"--says our
Lord,--"is likened unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. Then the lord
of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt" (Matt,
xviii. 28-27). But suppose that that servant had disputed the claim, and had put in an appeal
to justice instead of an appeal to mercy, upon the ground that inasmuch as he had lost his
property and had nothing to pay with, therefore he was not obligated to pay, think you that
the king would have conceded the equity of the claim? All these are man's work, and not that
of the Creator. This helplessness and bondage grows directly out of the nature of sin. "Whosoever
committeth sin is the slave of sin. Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves slaves to
obey, his slaves ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?"
(John viii. 34; Rom. vi. 16).

In view of the subject as thus discussed, we invite attention to some practical conclusions
that flow directly out of it. For, though we have been speaking upon one of the most difficult
themes in Christian theology, namely man's creation in holiness and his loss of holiness by
the apostasy in Adam, yet we have at the same time been speaking of one of the most humbling,
and practically profitable, doctrines in the whole circle of revealed truth. We never shall
arrive at any profound sense of sin, unless we know and feel our guilt and corruption by nature;
and we shall never arrive at any profound sense of our guilt and corruption by nature, unless
we know and understand the original righteousness and innocence in which we were first created.
We can measure the great depth of the abyss into which, we have fallen, only by looking up
to those great heights in the garden of Eden, upon which our nature once stood beautiful and
glorious, the very image and likeness of our Creator.

1. We remark then, in the first place, that it is the duty of every man to humble himself on
account of his lack of original righteousness, and to repent of it as sin before God. The want
of original righteousness, then, is a ground of condemnation, and therefore a reason for shame,
and godly sorrow. It is something which man once had, ought still to have, but now lacks; and
therefore is ill-deserving, for the very same reason that the young ruler's lack of supreme
love to God was ill-deserving.

If we acknowledge the validity of the distinction between a sin of omission and a sin of commission,
and concede that each alike is culpable,[3] we shall find no difficulty with this demand of
the Creed. Why should not you and I mourn over the total want of the image of God in our hearts,
as much as over any other form and species of sin? This image of God consists in holy reverence.
When we look into our hearts, and find no holy reverence there, ought we not to be filled with
shame and sorrow? This image of God consists in filial and supreme affection for God, such
as the young ruler lacked; and when we look into our hearts, and find not a particle of supreme
love to God in them, ought we not to repent of this original, this deep-seated, this innate
depravity? This image of God, again, which was lost in our apostasy, consisted in humble constant
trust in God; and when we search our souls, and perceive that there is nothing of this spirit
in them, but on the contrary a strong and overmastering disposition to trust in ourselves,
and to distrust our Maker, ought not this discovery to waken in us the very same feeling that
Isaiah gave expression to, when he said that the whole head is sick, and the whole heart is
faint; the very same feeling that David gave expression to, when he cried: "Behold I was shapen
in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me?"

This is to repent of original sin, and there is no mystery or absurdity about it. It is to
turn the eye inward, and see what is lacking in our heart and affections; and not merely what
of outward and actual transgressions we have committed. Those whose idea of moral excellence
is like that of the young ruler; those who suppose holiness to consist merely in the outward
observance of the commandments of the second table; those who do not look into the depths of
their nature, and contrast the total corruption that is there, with the perfect and positive
righteousness that ought to be there, and that was there by creation,--all such will find the
call of the Creed to repent of original sin as well as of actual, a perplexity and an impossibility.
But every man who knows that the substance of piety consists in positive and holy affections,--in
holy reverence, love and trust,--and who discovers that these are wanting in him by nature,
though belonging to him by creation, will mourn in deep contrition and self-abasement over
that act of apostasy by which this great change in human character, this great lack was brought
about. 2. In the second place, it follows from the subject we have discussed, that every man
must, by some method, recover his original righteousness, or be ruined forever. "Without holiness
no man shall see the Lord." No rational creature is fit to appear in the presence of his Maker,
unless he is as pure and perfect as he was originally made. Holy Adam was prepared by his creation
in the image of God, to hold blessed communion with God, and if he and his posterity had never
lost this image, they would forever be in fellowship with their Creator and Sovereign. Holiness,
and holiness alone, enables the creature to stand with angelic tranquillity, in the presence
of Him before whom the heavens and the earth flee away. The loss of original righteousness,
therefore, was the loss of the wedding garment; it was the loss of the only robe in which the
creature could appear at the banquet of God. Suppose that one of the posterity of sinful Adam,
destitute of holy love reverence and faith, lacking positive and perfect righteousness, should
be introduced into the seventh heavens, and there behold the infinite Jehovah. Would he not
feel, with a misery and a shame that could not be expressed, that he was naked? that he was
utterly unfit to appear in such a Presence? No wonder that our first parents, after their apostasy,
felt that they were unclothed. They were indeed stripped of their character, and had not a
rag of righteousness to cover them. No wonder that they hid themselves from the intolerable
purity and brightness of the Most High. Previously, they had felt no such emotion. They were
"not ashamed," we are told. And the reason lay in the fact that, before their apostasy, they
were precisely as they were made. They were endowed with the image of God; and their original
righteousness and perfect holiness qualified them to stand before their Maker, and to hold
blessed intercourse with Him. But the instant they lost their created endowment of holiness,
they were conscious that they lacked that indispensable something wherewith to appear before God.

And precisely so is it, with their posterity. Whatever a man's theory of the future life may
be, he must be insane, if he supposes that he is fit to appear before God, and to enter the
society of heaven, if destitute of holiness, and wanting the Divine image. When the spirit
of man returns to God who gave it, it must return as good as it came from His hands, or it
will be banished from the Divine presence. Every human soul, when it goes back to its Maker,
must carry with it a righteousness, to say the very least, equal to that in which it was originally
created, or it will be cast out as an unprofitable and wicked servant. All the talents entrusted
must be returned; and returned with usury. A modern philosopher and poet represents the suicide
as justifying the taking of his own life, upon the ground that he was not asked in the beginning,
whether he wanted life. He had no choice whether he would come into existence or not; existence
was forced upon him; and therefore he had a right to put an end to it, if he so pleased. To
this, the reply is made, that he ought to return his powers and faculties to the Creator in
as good condition as he received them; that he had no right to mutilate and spoil them by abuse,
and then fling the miserable relics of what was originally a noble creation, in the face of
the Creator. In answer to the suicide's proposition to give back his spirit to God who gave
it, the poet represents God as saying to him:

  "Is't returned as 'twas sent? Is't no worse for the wear?
  Think first what you are!
  Then die,--if die you dare!"[4]

Yes, this is true and solemn reasoning. You and I, and every man, must by some method, or other,
go back to God as good as we came forth from Him. We must regain our original righteousness;
we must be reinstated in our primal relation to God, and our created condition; or there is
nothing in store for us, but the blackness of darkness. We certainly cannot stand in the judgment
clothed with original sin, instead of original righteousness; full of carnal and selfish affections,
instead of pure and heavenly affections. This great lack, this great vacuum, in our character,
must by some method be filled up with solid, and everlasting excellencies, or the same finger
that wrote, in letters of fire, upon the wall of the Babylonian monarch, the awful legend:
"Thou art weighed in the balance, and art found wanting," will write it in letters of fire
upon our own rational spirit.

