"I'll be very quiet, Oliver," he continued, in a half-pleading tone, "and will make it as short
as I can. Just let me go up. It can't hurt him"--and he laid his hand on Oliver's shoulder
with a tenderness  that surprised him. "I would never forgive myself if he should pass away
without learning of his success. He's worked so hard."

Before Oliver could reply another low tap was heard at the door. Cobb turned the knob gently
and Nathan stepped inside the hall. The old man had gone home and to bed, tired out with his
ceaseless  watching by Richard's bedside, and was only half dressed.

"Still with us?" he asked in trembling tones, his eyes searching Oliver's face. "Oh, thank
God! Thank God! I'll go up at once"--and he passed on toward the stairway. Amos and Oliver
followed.

As Nathan's foot touched the first step Doctor Wallace's voice sounded over the bannisters.

"Oliver! Malachi! Both of you--quick!" The three bounded noiselessly up-stairs and entered
the room. Richard lay high up on the pillows, the face in shadow, his eyes closed. Margaret
was still on her knees, her head on the coverlet. Mrs. Horn stood on the other side of the
bed, the same calm, fixed expression on her face, as if she was trying to read the unknowable.
Dr. Wallace sat on a chair beside his patient, his fingers on Richard's pulse.

"Is he gone?" asked Oliver, stepping quickly to his father's side, his voice choking.

Dr. Wallace shook his head.

Amos Cobb drew near, and whispered in the doctor's  ear. The old physician listened quietly,
and nodded in assent. Then he leaned over his patient.

"Mr. Cobb has some good news for you, Richard,"  he said, calmly. "The bankers have recognized
your patents, and are ready to pay the money--"

The dying man's eyes opened slowly.

Amos stepped in front of the doctor, and bent down close to the bed.

"It's all right, Horn--all right! They can't get along without your first patent. Here's the
telegram."  He spoke with an encouraging cheeriness in his voice, as one would in helping a
child across a dangerous place.

The brow of the dying man suddenly cleared; the eyes burned with their old steadiness, then
the lips parted.

"Read it," he muttered. The words were barely audible.

Cobb held the paper so the dim light should fall upon it and read the contents slowly, emphasizing
each word.

"Raise me up."

The voice seemed to come from his throat, as if his lungs were closed. Oliver started forward,
but Cobb, being nearer, slipped his arm under the wasted figure, and with the tenderness of
a woman, lifted him carefully, tucking the pillows in behind the thin shoulders for better
support. Oliver sank softly to his knees beside Margaret.

Again the thin lips parted.

"Read it once more." The voice came stronger now.

Amos held the paper to the light, and the words of the telegram, like the low tick of a clock,
again sounded through the hushed room.

For a brief instant the inventor's eyes sought each face in turn. As his gaze rested on Margaret
and Oliver, he moved his thin white hand slowly along the coverlet, and laid it first on Oliver's
and next on Margaret's head. Then, with a triumphant look lighting his face, he lifted his
arms toward his wife.

"Sallie!" he called, and fell back on his pillow, lifeless.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE LIGHT OF A NEW DAY

The crocuses are a-bloom once more. The lilac buds are bursting with the joy of the new spring.
A veil of silver-gray floats over Moose Hillock. The idle brook, like a truant boy, dances
in the sunshine, singing to itself as it leaps from ledge to pool.

All the doors and windows of the big studio on the side looking down the valley are open to
the morning air. Through one of these Margaret has just entered, her arms full of apple blossoms.
One spray she places in a slender blue jar, the delicate blush of the buds and the pale green
of the leaves harmonizing with the gold-brown of her marvellous hair as she buries her face
among them. All about the spacious room are big easels, half-finished portraits,  rich draperies,
wide divans, old brass, and rare porcelain.

In an easy chair, close to the window, with the fragrance of the blossoms around her, sits
a white- haired old lady with a gossamer shawl about her shoulders. She is watching Margaret
as she moves about the room, her eyes brimming with tenderness and pride. Now and then she
looks toward a door leading into the bedroom beyond, as if expecting someone.

Oliver stands before his easel, his palette and brushes in his hand. He is studying the effect
of a pat of color he has just laid on the portrait of a young girl in a rich gown--the fourth
full-length he has painted this year--the most important being the one of his father ordered
by the Historical Society  of Kennedy Square, and painted from Margaret's sketches.

Malachi--the old man is very feeble--moves slowly around a square table covered with a snow-
white cloth, with seats set for four--one a high chair with little arms. In his hands are a
heap of cups and saucers--the same Spode cups and saucers he looked after so carefully in the
old house at home. These he places near the smoking coffee-urn.

Suddenly a merry, roguish laugh is heard, and a little fellow with gold-brown hair and big
blue eyes peers in through the slowly opening door.

The old servant stops, and his withered face breaks into a smile.

"Is dat you, honey?" he cries, with a laugh. "Come along, son. Yo' cha'r's all ready, Marse
Richard."