When he was at length recalled to Rome, he begged to be allowed to return to his monastery.
The Pope allowed him to do this, but employed him as his secretary. It was either now, or just
before he went to Constantinople, that there occurred the famous incident in the slave market,
when, struck by the beauty of some lads exposed for sale, he asked what was the name of their
nation. On being told, "Angles," he exclaimed, "Good, for they have the faces of angels, and
ought to be fellow-heirs of the angels in heaven." In reply to his inquiry as to the name of
their native province, he was told that its inhabitants were called Deiri. He answered, "Good;
snatched from the wrath, and called to the mercy of Christ." What was the name of the king
of that province? The answer was "Ælia." Then said he, "Alleluia! the praise of God ought to
be sung in those parts." He passed on, but did not forget the incident, for he wrung permission
from the Pope to go himself on a mission to convert the Angles; but no sooner had he started
than the Romans clamoured to have him recalled, and he had to return. He did not, however,
forget his interest in the nation, and when he was Pope he was able to carry out those plans
which earned him the affectionate titles of "Gregory our Father," and "The Apostle of the English,"
from those who owed so much to him.

                          DEPRECAMUR TE DOMINE

      De-pre-ca-mur Te, Do-mi-ne,
      in om-ni mi-se-ri-cor-di-a tu-a,
      ut au-fe-ra-tur fu-ror tu-us et i-ra tu-a
      a ci-vi-ta-te is-ta,
      et de do-mo san-cta tu-a;
      quo-ni-am pec-ca-vi-mus:
      Al-le-lu-ya.

In 590 Pope Pelagius died. It was a time of great misery at Rome; there was famine and a pestilence
in the city, the Tiber overflowed its banks, and the Lombards threatened invasion. The Popes
were virtually the rulers of Rome at this time, and all the inhabitants turned to Gregory as
their only hope. His proved abilities and high character were known to all, and he was unanimously
elected by the clergy and the people. He shrank, however, from the office, and even petitioned
the Emperor Maurice to withhold his confirmation of the election. While waiting for the Emperor's
answer, Gregory employed the occasion in preaching to the people, calling them to repentance.
A Litany was sung through the streets of the city by seven companies of the clergy and people,
starting from different churches and meeting at the Basilica of St. Maria Maggiore. From this
litany, perhaps, was taken the processional antiphon, "Deprecamur Te Domine," which was sung
by Augustine and his companions on entering Canterbury at the outset of their English mission.
At length the confirmation of his election arrived from the Emperor, and though Gregory still
tried to avoid the office, he was eventually obliged to take it, and was consecrated September
the 3rd, 590.

During the thirteen years of his popedom, Gregory had full scope for his talents as administrator,
as well as ruler. The Roman Church had by this time become possessed of a great "patrimony,"
and Gregory found time in the midst of his work of reforming the clergy and purifying the morals
of the Church, to attend to even the smallest details in the management of these great estates.
His letters give us the most vivid picture of his work and of his character. In them he is
constantly giving directions and making arrangements that no injustice should be done to even
the meanest peasant or serf on these estates; that their rents should be fixed, and no capricious
exactions demanded of them, nor surcharges added to the payments legally due from them. He
showed to the Jews a toleration and consideration which he did not always extend to schismatics,
heretics, and heathen. He seems to have reserved his most violent language for Lombards and
Patriarchs of Constantinople. He called worldly or negligent bishops to order, and in particular
took vigorous measures to root out simony, which was very prevalent. He sent Augustine and
his companions to England, and wrote them letters of exhortation and instruction; he found
time to send them also church furniture, vessels and vestments, and a number of books.

He also became engaged in a controversy with John the Faster, the Patriarch of Constantinople,
about the title of "Universal Bishop," which was arrogated to the latter by himself and those
about him. It was not a novelty, but Gregory seems to have seen the danger involved in its
continued usage to the power which he claimed for the See of Rome. A whole series of his letters
are consequently taken up with his vehement, not to say violent, protests against John's use
of the title. It is probably in connection with the fact that the Emperor Maurice had supported
the Patriarch John in his claim of equality with the Pope of Rome, that the explanation is
to be sought of a circumstance which remains the chief blot on Gregory's fame. Maurice had
given him little help against the Lombards, and had in various ways seemed to oppose or actually
opposed Gregory in some of his reforms. When, therefore, Phocas murdered Maurice and usurped
his throne, the Pope wrote him a fulsome letter of congratulation. He may not have been fully
acquainted with the infamous character of Phocas, nor have fully known of the atrocious manner
in which he had murdered the Emperor and his family, yet he must have known, at least, that
he was a traitor, a murderer, and an usurper. Nothing can excuse him--knowing this--for writing
in such a strain, saying "Glory to God in the highest," and "Let the heavens rejoice and let
the earth be glad," at the hopes aroused by the piety of the new Emperor.

He attached great importance to preaching, and many of his sermons remain to this day. He also
wrote "Liber Pastoralis Curæ," a treatise on the responsibilities and duties of Bishops. This
book had immense influence; it was circulated in Spain; the Emperor had it translated into
Greek; it was an authoritative text-book in Gaul for centuries; and it was translated into
Anglo-Saxon by King Alfred, and was widely disseminated in England. But it is in the services
and service-books of the Church that he set his mark most conspicuously. He organized and enriched
them, even the Canon of the Mass in which he added to the prayer of oblation the words "Diesque
nostras in tua pace disponas." The work which has been traditionally ascribed to him in the
department of Church Music we shall enter into more fully.

