"That's the rub," Melissa replied, looking up into his face with such a confiding look. (If
any pretty girl had looked up at ME like that, I should have known what to do with her; but
Bernard was twenty-four, and young men are modest.) "That's the rub, Mr. Hancock. I like--well,
European society so very much better. Our men are nice enough in their own way, don't you know;
but they somehow lack polish--at least, out West, I mean, in Kansas City. Europeans may n't
be very much better when you get right at them, perhaps; but on the outside, anyway to ME,
they're more attractive somehow."

There was another long pause, during which I felt as guilty as ever eavesdropper before me.
Yet I was glued to the spot. I could hardly escape. At last Bernard spoke again. "I should
like to have gone round with you on your tour, Melissa," he said. "I don't know Italy; I don't
suppose by myself I could even appreciate it. But if YOU were by my side, you'd have taught
me what it all meant; and then I think I might perhaps understand it."

Melissa drew a deep breath. "I wish I could take it all over again," she answered, half sighing.
"And I didn't see Naples, either. That was a great disappointment. I should like to have seen
Naples, I must confess, so as to know I could at least in the end die happy."

"Why do you go back?" Bernard asked, suddenly, with a bounce, looking down at that wee hand
that trembled upon the taffrail.

"Because I can't help myself," Melissa answered, in a quivering voice. "I should like--I should
like to live always in England."

"Have you any special preference for any particular town?" Bernard asked, moving closer to
her--though, to be sure, he was very, very near already.

"N--no; n--none in particular," Melissa stammered out, faintly, half sidling away from him.

"Not Cambridge, for example?" Bernard asked, with a deep gulp and an audible effort.

I felt it would be unpardonable for me to hear any more. I had heard already many things not
intended for me. I sneaked off, unperceived, and left those two alone to complete that conversation.

Half an hour later--it was a calm, mooolight night--Bernard rushed down eagerly into the saloon
to find us. "Father and mother," he said, with a burst, "I want you up on deck for just ten
minutes. There's something up there I should like so much to show you."

"Not whales?" I asked, hypocritically, suppressing a smile.

"No, not whales," he replied; "something much more interesting."

We followed him blindly, Lucy much in doubt what the thing might be, and I much in wonder.
after Mrs. Wade's letter, how Lucy might take it.

At the top of the companion--ladder Melissa stood waiting for us, demure, but subdued, with
a still timider look than ever upon that sweet, shrinking, small face of hers. Her heart beat
hard, I could see by the movement of her bodice, and her breath came and went; but she stood
there like a dove, in her dove-coloured travelling dress.

"Mother," Bernard began, "Melissa's obliged to come back to America, don't you know, without
having ever seen Naples. It seems a horrid shame she should miss seeing it. She hadn't money
enough left, you recollect, to take her there."

Lucy gazed at him, unsuspicious. "It does a pity," she answered, sympathetically.

"She'd enjoy it so much. I'm sorry she hasn't been able to carry out all her programme."

"And, mother," Bernard went on, his eyes fixed hard on hers, "how awfully she'd be thrown away
on Kansas City! I can't bear to think of her going back to 'keep store' there."

"For my part, I think it positively wicked," Lucy answered, with a smile, "and I can't think
what--well, people in England are about, to allow her to do it."

I opened my eyes wide. Did Lucy know what she was saying? Or had Melissa, then, fascinated
her--the arch little witch!--as she had fascinated the rest of us?

But Bernard, emboldened by this excellent opening, took Melissa by the hand as if in due form
to present her. "Mother," he said, tenderly, leading the wee thing forward, "and father, too,
THIS is what I wanted to show you--the girl I'm engaged to!"

I paused and trembled. I waited for the thunderbolt. But no thunderbolt fell. On the contrary,
Lucy stepped forward, and, under cover of the mast, caught Melissa in her arms and kissed her
twice over. "My dear child," she cried, pressing her hard, "my dear little daughter, I don't
know which of you two I ought most to congratulate."

"But I do," Bernard murmured low. And, his father though I am, I murmured to myself, "And so
do I, also."

"Then you're not ashamed of me, mother dear," Melissa whispered, burying her dainty little
bead on Lucy's shoulder, "because I kept store in Kansas City?"

Lucy rose above herself in the excitement of the moment. "My darling wee daughter," she answered,
kissing her tenderly again, "it's Kansas City alone that ought to be ashamed of itself for
putting YOU to keep store--such a sweet little gem as you are!" We soon got under way again.
The night watch being set, the rest of the crew retired to their berths.