Just beyond Levant is Pendeen Village, with a new lighthouse on the coast. At Pendeen manor-house,
now a farm, was born the eminent Cornish antiquary, Dr. Borlase, in 1695. For his age he was
a tolerably enlightened archæologist, and his works on local antiquities have supplied the
basis of much subsequent writing; but of course they present pitfalls for the unwary. He was
Vicar of Ludgvan for fifty years. The curious fogou of Pendeen Vau was actually in the garden
of his birthplace, so that he had an early stimulus to research. Pendeen has now its own church,
which is of remarkable interest although quite recent. In plan and exterior it is modelled
on Iona Cathedral, and was built by the Cornish missioner, Robert Aitken, who influenced his
people so powerfully that the granite was both given and wrought free of cost. A castellated
wall with a fine arched gateway surrounds the building, which proves that under the right impulse
the people may still become church-builders--and will still attend church. Eastward of Pendeen
is the church town of Morvah. This tract of coast from Land's End to St. Ives has perhaps been
neglected by visitors and writers, only one spot, and that not the finest, Gurnard's Head,
being really familiar. The stony barrenness of the inland country is compensated by a real
grandeur of coast-line, invisible from the road and therefore often left unexplored. Morvah
has traditions of mermaids, with some idea that its name may be a corruption of the Breton
morverch; but we must probably seek some other derivation. Tonkin says the name simply means
locus maritimus. Stories of mermaids are common enough, or rather were so, along this north
shore, doubtless explained by the seals that were once frequent, and would be still if not
shot off by the usual insensate "man with a gun." The small church is Perpendicular, with a
pinnacled tower. In this parish is the magnificent Chûn or Chywoon castle, on a hill about
700 feet high. This western extremity of Cornwall was guarded by a line of hill forts, of which
this Chûn, if not the most powerful, remains in best preservation. We cannot speak with decision
as to the date of their earliest use, but this stronghold of Chûn was almost certainly utilised
as late as the fifth or sixth centuries, and may have seen fighting during the days when Irish
invaders, even if they came as travelling saints, were not always welcomed. The first and second
vallum can be traced with their ditches, and there was doubtless an inner wall. The masonry
is of different character from that cyclopean piling of boulders which was all the earlier
men had known of building. Of such cyclopean style, though it is a small specimen, is the Chûn
cromlech, standing near. In the near neighbourhood are the Mên Scryfa (the inscribed stone),
the Mên-an-tol (the holed stone), the Nine Maidens, the Lanyon Quoit,[A] the huts of Bosporthennis,
the Mulfra Quoit--all being monoliths, or other survivals of wonderful interest, with the strange
fascination of their mystery. Cairns, barrows, sepulchral monuments, we can understand, for
death and burial are ever with us; but what was the meaning of these circles and standing-stones--who
built them, and for what purpose? They are interpreted astronomically now--the latest, perhaps
the correct, theory. The earliest peoples who brought any culture to these shores came from
the East, and we cannot tell what profundities of astrologic science they carried with them.
It is generally acknowledged that when the rough Teutons came they encountered and checked
a mental culture higher than their own. But we can only conjecture dimly, and leave the controversialists
to wrangle.

    [A] See illustration, page 181.

On the moorland beyond Morvah rises the tor of Carn Galva, standing stern and solitary like
a little patch of Dartmoor. On the coast is the grand sheer cliff of Bosigran, the western
protection of Porthmeor Cove, with traces of prehistoric fortification; it is a noble bluff
of granite, with a drop of 400 feet. Puffins nest in the crevices below. A little westward
are the pinnacled rocks of Rosemergy, covered with lichens and in parts clad in ivy; the neighbouring
turfy slopes are fragrant with heather and gorse. Little streams filter their way from the
moorland to the coves, reaching the sea through hollows rich with ferns--there are still rare
ferns to be found in the more inaccessible shelters. Just beyond is another Treryn Dinas, like
that of the Logan near St. Levan; but this Treen is better known as the Gurnard's Head. It
is a favourite show-place, winning perhaps more attention than it deserves in comparison with
other places near it; but the rocky and turf-clad headland, with its traces of a far-distant
past, is really very beautiful, reaching like a couchant beast into the waves that are sometimes
of the purest blue, sometimes white with seething foam. There was an old chapel on the neck
of the promontory, and near are remains of some rude granite huts. The popularity of the place
has brought a modern hotel.

The cove of Porthglaze with its strange turret-like rocks, the coves of Pendour and Zennor--all
these are beautiful, and cannot be seen from the road; the visitor must explore them by scrambling
along the cliffs, crossing summits and gorges and gullies, not deterred by difficulties that
to a careless or nervous climber might become dangers. Only so can this fine coast be fully known.

In its situation the village of Zennor is like some of the wild, stony parts of Ireland; but
the cottages are too comfortable to be Irish. Close to it stretches the stone-strewn moorland.
Everywhere we have proof of the abundance of stone, the scarcity of wood; hedges are of rough
boulders and pebbles; stiles are the charming Cornish "gridirons"; there is a stream crossed
by rugged little stone bridges. The church is of the thirteenth century, restored in 1890;
of course there had been earlier restoration, for the tower is Perpendicular. The dedication
is to St. Sinara or Senar, a virgin probably of Irish origin; but we know nothing about her,
and little of the early building itself, except that in 1270 the Bishop of Exeter granted it
to his college at Glassiney near Penryn, and the living seems to have been starved. Zennor,
indeed, was formerly known as the place "where the cow ate the bell-rope," a sportive neighbourly
reference to its poverty and infertility. But the most famous feature of the church is its
carved mermaid. There are two good old bench-ends, now forming the sides of sedilia, and of
these the mermaid is one, represented with comb, mirror, and fishy tail. The story tells that
the men of Zennor were very fine singers in the old days, and one, a squire's son who sang
in the choir, had so beautiful a voice that this mermaid came all the way up from the sea-beach
to hear him, Sunday after Sunday. How she did it is not explained; but at last her importunity
prevailed, and the youth went away with her.

