     'Tis the Temple of Justice, the home of M.P.'s,
     Our noble, our own representatives these,
     But endless as sands of the desert, and worse,
     Are the Bills they discuss and the rules they
     rehearse.

'What about the Government?' said Queen Mab to the Owl one day. 'Is there anything that it
would do to introduce into Polynesia--that is, if the Germans and the missionaries have gone
away again? If they haven't--!' and she sighed.

'I think you had better not try,' returned her counsellor, after considering the point. 'You
have got a queen already, and I should think the Polynesians are hardly ripe for a representative
Government No doubt, in the course of the struggle for existence, they will get into a good
many difficulties, but I rather think that a British constitution on the top of them would
not improve matters. If you could get up a Witenagemot now!'

'Oh, the gathering of the Wise Men,' said the fairy. 'I remember that. Has not England got
a Witenagemot now, then?' she inquired. Her historical notions, during her long residence in
Polynesia, had got fearfully mixed up and hazy.

'They don't call it so,' said the Owl gravely. 'I wonder they don't, it would be very suitable.'

'And what is it for?' asked Mab.

'Chiefly to legislate for the Millennium, I think,' replied the Owl. 'They have been legislating
now for a considerable time, but it hasn't come yet. It is late. We expect, however, that it
will arrive when the New Democracy is in power. There has been a good deal of annoyance with
the Established Church lately for not telegraphing for it sooner, and people say that but for
the Church's neglect the Millennium would have been here a very long time ago. Therefore, when
the New Democracy comes, it intends, as the Democrat was saying, to be mild but firm, and see
if the Millennium can't be got to travel faster. And the first mild but firm thing it will
do will be to pull down the Established Church of England and level it with the--with other
denominations.'

'What is the Millennium?' said Queen Mab.

'Some think one thing and some another,' returned the Owl. 'Perhaps we had better not discuss
it; it is so easy to be profane on the subject before you know where you are. But you can hear
Parliament legislating for it any day, and see people living up to it under the gangway.'

'I should like to go and see how they do it,' said Mab, 'just for once.'

'Well, so you can,' said the Owl. 'We can start directly if you like. It is the safest place
in London now that the session is on, because of the Home Rulers. The dynamiters couldn't very
well blow it up with the Irish members in, and it would look too pointed for them all to be
away at the time of its being blown up. Make me invisible and we will go.'

So Queen Mab made them both invisible, and they flew away to the House of Commons. There ensconcing
themselves on a high beam, they soon forgot the cobwebs in the interest of the debate. It was
a remarkable debate, and, what is also remarkable, I can find no traces of it in the Hansard
for that year, and it hardly conforms to the latest rules. Sometimes I am inclined to think
that the Owl must have invented it or dreamed it, but he says that every word is mathematically
correct, and I know him for a most truthful bird, who never told, or at all events never meant
to tell, a lie. The debate was on a Bill introduced by Government for the colonisation of the
lunar world by emigration of the able-bodied unemployed, and the House was full. All the Home
Rulers were present, a fact which gave the Owl a feeling of pleasant security, and members
generally were wide awake and very attentive.

In a brief speech of three hours the Prime Minister advocated the principles of the Bill.

