"Hardly in the sense that I mean. But that is the great Conservative lesson. That lesson seems
to me to be hardly compatible with continual improvement in the condition of the lower man.
But with the Conservative all such improvement is to be based on the idea of the maintenance
of those distances. I as a Duke am to be kept as far apart from the man who drives my horses
as was my ancestor from the man who drove his, or who rode after him to the wars,--and that
is to go on for ever. There is much to be said for such a scheme. Let the lords be, all of
them, men with loving hearts, and clear intellect, and noble instincts, and it is possible
that they should use their powers so beneficently as to spread happiness over the earth. It
is one of the millenniums which the mind of man can conceive, and seems to be that which the
Conservative mind does conceive."

"But the other men who are not lords don't want that kind of happiness."

"If such happiness were attainable it might be well to constrain men to accept it. But the
lords of this world are fallible men; and though as units they ought to be and perhaps are
better than those others who have fewer advantages, they are much more likely as units to go
astray in opinion than the bodies of men whom they would seek to govern. We know that power
does corrupt, and that we cannot trust kings to have loving hearts, and clear intellects, and
noble instincts. Men as they come to think about it and to look forward, and to look back,
will not believe in such a millennium as that."

"Do they believe in any millennium?"

"I think they do after a fashion, and I think that I do myself. That is my idea of Conservatism.
The doctrine of Liberalism is, of course, the reverse. The Liberal, if he have any fixed idea
at all, must, I think, have conceived the idea of lessening distances,--of bringing the coachman
and the duke nearer together,--nearer and nearer, till a millennium shall be reached by--"

"By equality?" asked Phineas, eagerly interrupting the Prime Minister, and showing his dissent
by the tone of his voice.

"I did not use the word, which is open to many objections. In the first place the millennium,
which I have perhaps rashly named, is so distant that we need not even think of it as possible.
Men's intellects are at present so various that we cannot even realise the idea of equality,
and here in England we have been taught to hate the word by the evil effects of those absurd
attempts which have been made elsewhere to proclaim it as a fact accomplished by the scratch
of a pen or by a chisel on a stone. We have been injured in that, because a good word signifying
a grand idea has been driven out of the vocabulary of good men. Equality would be a heaven,
if we could attain it. How can we to whom so much has been given dare to think otherwise? How
can you look at the bowed back and bent legs and abject face of that poor ploughman, who winter
and summer has to drag his rheumatic limbs to his work, while you go a-hunting or sit in pride
of place among the foremost few of your country, and say that it all is as it ought to be?
You are a Liberal because you know that it is not all as it ought to be, and because you would
still march on to some nearer approach to equality; though the thing itself is so great, so
glorious, so godlike,--nay, so absolutely divine,--that you have been disgusted by the very
promise of it, because its perfection is unattainable. Men have asserted a mock equality till
the very idea of equality stinks in men's nostrils."

