To some readers interested in theatrical life, Polly Mountemple must prove an interesting work
of fiction, if a story can be so styled which, as its author assures his readers with his latest
breath, I should say in his last paragraph (p. 291), "Is a true tale." It is the story of a
"ballet lady" who rises in "the profession" to the dignity of a speaking part, and is on the
point of being raised still higher in the social scale, and becoming the wife of a real live
young nobleman, when she sensibly accepts a considerable sum of money, consents to forego her
action for breach of promise, and finally marries a highly respectable acrobat, and becomes
the landlady of the "Man of Kent." The earlier portion is entertaining, especially to those
who are not altogether ignorant of some of the personages, sketches of whom are drawn by the
author, Mr. CHARLES HOLLIS, with, it is not improbable, considerable fidelity. They are rough
sketches, not by any means highly finished, but then such was the character of the original
models. Before, however, it can be accepted by the general public as giving an unexaggerated
picture of a certain sort of stage-life, it ought to have the imprimatur or the nihil obstat
of some generally acknowledged head of the profession; for "the profession" is Hydra-like in
this respect--a republican creation, with many heads. THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "PAPER-CHASE."

The Hare (with many financial friends) loquitur:--

  Here goes! 'Tis a rather new line--
    But that is no very great matter.
  If they've faith in a lead, 'tis in mine,
    So a tentative trail let me scatter,
  The old track of country this time I'll forsake;
  I trust they'll not think I have made a mistake?

  That old line of country they know,
    Across it for years they've been rangers,
  All right, when the going is slow,
    When 'tis fast, are they fly to its dangers?
  For Hares to raise scares 'midst the Hounds were improper,
  But how if the pack come a general cropper?

  Remarkably near it last time,
    Though some of 'em didn't suspect it;
  But I spy the peril! 'Twere crime
    If I did not help them to detect it.
  If they don't like my trail they must give me the sack;
  I'd rather be bullied than break up the pack.

  They fancy I'll keep the old course,
    There or thereabout. But I've a notion!
  They'll grumble perhaps, with some force,
    But they're not going to flurry G. GOSCHEN.
  Of this havresack there have been some smart carriers--
  I'll make 'em sit up, though, the L.S.D. Harriers!

  I love 'em, each supple-shanked lad,
    'Most as much as--Statistics. To trudge it
  For them makes my bosom as glad
    As--Big Surplus, and Popular Budget;
  And so I should like to secure them a run,
  Combining snug safety with plenty of fun.

  I don't wont to lessen their speed,
    I don't want to hamper their daring;
  But rashness won't always succeed--
    Just ask that smart runner, young B-R-NG!
  And that's why I'm trying to strike a new line
  For our Paper-Chase--catting the "Paper" up fine.

  I scatter it wide. Will it float?
    Of course for awhile there's no knowing;
  But I shall be able to note,
    By the sequel, which way the wind's blowing.
  There! Look like white-birds, or banknotes, in full flight.
  Now, lads, double up! There's not one yet in sight!

  Of course I'm ahead of my field,
    As a Hare worth his salt ever should be.
  My Hounds, though, are mostly spring-heeled.
    Eh? Funk it? I don't think that could be!
  The L.S.D. Harriers' lick others hollow
  For pluck and for pace. There's the trail,--will they follow?

       *       *       *       *       *

"SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST."--You need not go to Holland to see the Hague. You may find it--him
we mean--at DOWDESWELL's Gallery. Here you can revel in a good fit of the Hague without shivering.
Indeed, Mr. ANDERSON HAGUE, judging from his pictures of North Cambria, seems to be very fit,
and therefore, he may be called an HAGUE-fit.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CAN(NES)DID CONFESSION.

(BY A SUFFERING ANGELINA.)

  You write to me, sweetest, with envy
    Of "zephyrs" and "summerlike stars;"
  You say women, horses, and men vie
    In chorus of croups and catarrhs;
  You picture me safe from the snarling
    Of Winter's tyrannical sway.
  This isn't, believe me, my darling,
    The Mediterranean way.

  You rave of the "shimmering light on
    An ocean pellucidly fair."
  You get it, my darling, at Brighton,
    And coals that can warm you are there:
  Of "boughs with hot oranges breaking"--
    Cold comfort, while fortunes we pay
  For faggots that mock us in making
    Their Mediterranean way!

  You dream of me rapt by a casement
    Mimosa caresses and rose;
  This window was surely the place meant
    For mistral to buffet my nose.
  Of tennis and dances and drums in
    "That Eden for Eves"--did you say?
  Apt phrase! Nothing masculine comes in
    Our Mediterranean way.

  And "Esterel's amethyst ranges
    Of gossamer shapes"--and the rest.
  Good gracious, how scenery changes!
    They too have a cold on their chest.
  At "delicate lungs," dear, and so on
    No more for this climate I'll play,
  But homeward in ecstasy go on
    My Mediterranean way.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD WOMAN AND HER WATER SUPPLY.

(AN OLD NURSERY RHYME WITH A NEW BURDEN.)

  There was an old Woman, as I've heard say,
  The frost froze her water-pipes fast one day;
  The frost froze her water-pipes fast at first,
  Till a thaw came at last, and the water-pipes burst.
  By came the Company, greedy of gain,
  And it cut her water all off at the main,
  It cut her water off sharp, if you please,
  Though it wasn't her fault that the pipes began to freeze.
  It wasn't her fault that the water-pipes burst.
  So she had no water for cleansing or thirst,
  She had no water, and she began to cry,
  "Oh, what a cruel buzzum has a Water Company
  But I'll repair the pipes, since so it must be,
  And the plumber, I'm aware, will make pickings out of me.
  If there's a frost I've no water for my pail,
  And if there's a thaw then the rate-collectors rail."
  On Law the old Woman is entirely in the dark;
  There seems no one to save her from the fresh-water shark;
  The shark does what he likes, and she can only cry,
  "Who'll help a poor old Woman 'gainst the Water Company?"

       *       *       *       *       *

MOI-MEM.

"Moi-Même," in the course of his pleasant Worldly wanderings among things in general, observes,
à propos of the younger COQUELIN's suggestion about lectures by professors of the Dramatic
Art to youthful students, "One can scarcely fancy a more humorous sight than Mr. TOOLE giving
a professional lecture to dramatic aspirants, telling them when to wink, when to wheeze, when
to ''scuse his glove,'" &c. Now it so happens that when this same idea was first started--or
perhaps revived--some eleven years ago, Professor TOOLE's Lecture to Students of the Dramatic
Art was given in Mr. Punch's pages. The lecture, one of a series supposed to be given by various
actors, will be found in Vol. LXXVIII., page 93. It appeared on the 28th of February, 1880.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE BY A NOMAD.

  SMITH, of Coalville, imagines that Civilised Man
  Falls too much to the rear if he lives in a Van;
  But Caravan-dwellers, with force and urbanity,
  Declare that SMITH's views of Van life are pure vanity!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIGHEST EDUCATION;

OR, WHAT IS LOOMING A-HEAD.

A Deputation on behalf of the Exasperated Ratepayers' Association waited yesterday afternoon
on the Chairman of the London School Board at their new and commodious palatial premises erected
on the vast central site recently cleared, regardless of expense, for that purpose in Piccadilly,
and presented a further protest against the ever-increasing expenditure indulged in by that
body. The Chairman, smilingly intimating that he would hear what the Deputation had to say,
though he added, amidst the ill-suppressed merriment of his confrères, he supposed it was the
old sing-song protest, possibly on this occasion because they had recently directed that the
boys attending the schools of the Board should come in "Eton" suits, the cost of which naturally
fell upon the rates, or some captious objection of that kind, which it really was a waste of
breath to discuss. However, whatever it was, he added, he was willing to hear it.

The Spokesman of the Deputation, a Duke in reduced circumstances, who ascribed his ruin to
the heavy rates he had been called upon to pay through the extravagance of the Board, and who
declined to give his name, said that though they had not thought the Eton suits a necessity,
still it was not against them that they had to protest. It was the addition of Astronomy involving
the erection (with fitting first-class instruments) of 341 observatories in the London district
alone, Chinese, taught by 500 native Professors imported from Pekin for the purpose, horse-riding,
yachting, and the church organ (these last two being compulsory), together with the use of
the tricycle, type-writer, and phonograph, all of which instruments were provided for every
single pupil at the expense of the ratepayers, to the curriculum of all those pupils who were
fitted for the third standard. The speaker said he knew that it had long been settled that
the finest and most comprehensive education that our advanced civilisation could supply should
be provided for the submerged half of the population, and they could not grumble at these things,
but what they did not consider necessary was, that a salary should be forthcoming for each
pupil-teacher sufficient to enable him or her to drive down to the schools in their own carriage
and pair. (Much laughter.) He did not think it a laughing matter. He would strongly suggest
a diminution of at least £1000 a-year in the salaries of these overpaid officials.

The Chairman here asked the speaker if he had considered that "descending" from a carriage
was necessarily connected with the teaching of Deportment, on which the Board set great value?
Was he not aware that some great man had said, wishing to give Deportment its proper weight
as an educational factor, that the Battle of Waterloo (at least he thought he was quoting correctly)
was won at Almacks? (Renewed laughter.) Anyhow, he did not consider that £2,500 a-year, and
a house in Mayfair, was at all an excessive remuneration for a School-Board teacher, as measured
by the Board's standard. He thought, if that was all the Deputation had to urge, that they
might have saved themselves the trouble their protest had cost them.

The Spokesman having for a few moments consulted with his colleagues, hereupon turned to the
Chairman, and delivering with fearful emphasis the customary curse on the School Board, its
Chairman, and all its belongings, at the same time thanking the Chairman for his courteous
reception of the Deputation, silently and sulkily withdrew.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRURIOLANUS AND DANCING.--The Fancy Dress Ball--not a "Ball Marsky"--at Covent Garden, last
Tuesday week, was a great success, on which DRURIOLANUS FORTUNATUS is hereby congratulated.
There is to be a similar festivity, to celebrate Mi-Carême. Quite appropriate this date, when
the season is half Lent, and the costumes almost all borrowed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. RUDYARD KIPLING.

    ["Every minute of my time during 1891 is already mortgaged. In
    1892 you may count upon me."--Mr. KIPLING to Magazine Editor,
    who wished to secure him as a Contributor.]

  Oh, happy man! for whom this world of ours
    Is but a ceaseless round of milk and honey,
  Who use your wondrous word-compelling powers
    For us in telling tales (and making money),

  How you must laugh to rake the dollars in,
    The publishers--how badly you must bleed them;
  Your tales are good, but yet, ere you begin
   On more, just think of us who've got to read them.

  It frightens us to hear your Ninety-One
    Is mortgaged--for the prospect's not inviting,
  To think of all that may and will be done,
    If, through the present year you ne'er cease writing!

  With bated breath we ask, and humble mien--
    We realise how far we come behind you--
  That you will leave one remnant Magazine
    In which we may be sure we shall not find you.

  Then will your RUDYARD name with joy be hailed,
    And yours will be a never-fading glory,
  If, when you're asked to write a Light that Failed,
    You merely tell us, "That's another story."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN UPPER NOTE.

Sir,--I mustn't interfere with the diary of TOBY, M.P. But, as he is not reported as being
in the Upper House on this particular occasion, I cannot help drawing general attention to
the dispatch of business among the Lords on Thursday last. I quote from the Parliamentary Report
in the Daily Telegraph, which informed us that

    "The LORD CHANCELLOR took his seat on the Woolsack at a
    quarter-past four o'clock."

Then in came "A New Spiritual Peer." Awful! It sounds like an apparition in a blood-curdling
ghost-story. Where was LIKA JOKO with his pencil? Well, "the new Spiritual Peer took his oath
and his seat"--why wasn't he called upon for his toast and sentiment?--and then--what happened?
Did their Lordships stay to have a friendly chat with the new-comer? No, not a bit of it; for
the report says,

    "Their Lordships rose at twenty-five minutes to five o'clock."

So that, in effect, as soon as the new boy came in, and seated himself, all the old boys went
out. There's manners for you! And this in the Upper House, too!! Yours truly, THE MARQUIZ.
It is true, that upon occasion GEDGE has not given entire satisfaction to our friends opposite.
They hold the opinion that his incursions in debate have been inopportune, and, in short, unnecessary;
but that is their affair. We have had no ground for complaint. GEDGE has always voted straight,
has appropriately filled up a dull half-hour when we had to keep a Debate going, and at all
times he has invested our side of the House with a certain je ne sais quoi of dignity, combined
with profound wisdom. And now to go and break out in this unexpected manner! It is incomprehensible,--would
be, if I had not seen him with my own organs of vision, incredible. We must make GEDGE a Peer,
or a County Court Judge."

OLD MORALITY's discomposure not unwarranted. GEDGE certainly made our flesh creep to-night.
Of all things in the world, it came about on the Tithes Bill. In Committee all night; Sir JOHN
SWINBURNE spoken several times; HARCOURT, leading Opposition, made several efforts to inspire
proceedings with a little life, but not to be done. Bill rapidly slipping through; Amendments
to Clauses all disposed of; a few new ones on paper. Of course not slightest chance of being
added to Bill. One by one moved; Minister objected; Clause negatived; and there an end of it.
Twelve o'clock close at hand; on stroke of Midnight, Debate must be adjourned; still plenty
of time to get the Bill through Committee. Everything out of the way except new Clause in name
of SYDNEY GEDGE. But GEDGE loyal Ministerialist; not likely he would interfere with arrangements,
and endanger progress of Bill. HICKS-BEACH, in charge of measure, kept his eye on the clock;
three minutes to Twelve; running it pretty close, but just time to get Bill through. GEDGE
on his feet; quite unnecessary; needn't stand up to say he would not move his Clause; if he
had simply lifted his hat when Chairman called his name it would be understood that he had
sacrificed his Clause. Dangerous this, dallying on stroke of Midnight.

To his horror, HICKS-BEACH heard GEDGE beginning to describe purport of his new Clause. Was
going to move it then? Yes. After moment's horrified pause, Ministerialists broke into angry
cries of, "Divide!" Opposition convulsed with laughter; HICKS-BEACH pale and stern, and stony
silent; SYDNEY GEDGE flushed, conversational, dogged. Even if Tithes Bill were lost he would
explain the bearing of his new Clause. Scene increasing in hilarity; lasted three minutes:
then Midnight sounded, and SYDNEY sat down, surprised to find he had talked out the Tithes Bill.

"You might have knocked me down with a feather," said ALBERT ROLLIT, who, before opening his
lips, had observed the precaution of propping himself up against the wall. "GEDGE, of all men,
to spoil the Ministerial plan, and imperil their arrangements for the week! It's all COURTNEY's
fault. Since GEDGE tasted COURTNEY's blood, on the night he interrupted his speech by chatting
in the Chair with HERBERT GARDNER, GEDGE has never been the same man. There's no knowing to
what lengths he may not go."

Business done.--SYDNEY GEDGE broken out again worse than ever.

Tuesday.--MARJORIBANKS rather depressed as he rose to move his Resolution for appointment of
Royal Commission on New Magazine Rifle. Had hoped to appear under very different circumstances.
Meant quite to put in the shade LYON PLAYFAIR's historic lecture on Margarine, when he had
the tables covered with pots of that substance, with penny loaves and small knives for Members
to sample withal. For weeks MARJORIBANKS been preparing for occasion. Had possessed himself
of quite an armoury of rifles: intended to bring them into the House and illustrate his lecture
with practical experiments. The climax was to be the shooting-off scene. BOBBY SPENCER and
ANSTRUTHER on in this. BOBBY standing at the Bar with an apple held on palm of extended right
hand; MARJORIBANKS, using Martini-Henry Rifle, was to clear the apple off, leaving BOBBY's
hair unsinged, and not a wrinkle added to his collar. ANSTRUTHER was next to stand in the same
place, braving the fire of the Magazine Rifle. But he didn't have an apple, as it was arranged
that the new arm should jam.

"Suppose it doesn't?" ANSTRUTHER inquired, when MARJORIBANKS first unfolded his scheme.

"Oh, that'll be all right," said MARJORIBANKS, cheerily.

Long practice on the Terrace made the arrangements perfect, when they were suddenly upset by
interference from unexpected quarter. The SPEAKER, wondering what all this rifle-popping was,
came to hear of the project; at once said it wouldn't do; no arms of any kind admitted in House
of Commons, except the sword worn by SERGEANT-AT-ARMS, and once a year the lethal weapons carried
by the Naval or Military gentlemen who move and second Address. BOBBY SPENCER rather glad,
I fancy; ANSTRUTHER not inconsolable. But MARJORIBANKS distinctly depressed.

"Not often I occupy time of House," he said. "We Whips make Houses, and you empty them. DUFF--and
he's not a Whip now--made all the running with his orations on the herring brand. Thought I
would make a hit this time."

"I was a little afraid of it too," said ANSTRUTHER.

"Oh, you were all right," said MARJORIBANKS; "the New Magazine Rifle will not fire unless,
after first shot, you clean it out with an oily rag, and I was going to take precious good
care to forget the rag. You've no public spirit, ANSTRUTHER, since you left us to help WOLMER
to whip up Dissentients."

No appeal from SPEAKER's ruling. MARJORIBANKS had to make the best of botched business. Brought
to the table a spring snap-extractor, a bolt-head screw, and some other odds and ends; poor
substitute for what he had intended. Still made out admirable case, Government mustering majority
of only 34 against Motion.

Just before Midnight, Tithes Bill reached; GEDGE's Amendment still blocked the way; Chairman
called aloud, "Mr. GEDGE!" no answer; place empty. Whilst Members whispering inquiry, Bill
passed through Committee, and Ministers triumphed. That's all very well, but where's GEDGE?
CORB, who is developing quite unsuspected gifts in the Amateur-detective line, intends to take
this matter up when he has settled the affair of the Coroner at the BEDFORD inquest.

Business done.--Tithe Bill through Committee. Mysterious disappearance of SYDNEY GEDGE.

Thursday Night.--GRAHDOLPH back again, bringing his sheaves--I mean his beard--with him. Hardly
knew him at first. No such beard been seen in House since MACFARLANE left us. Not quite the
same colour; but GRANDOLPH could give a handful to MACFARLANE, and win.

"Yes," he said, when I complimented him on so magnificent a result achieved in comparatively
short time, "when I do a thing, I like to do it well. Little awkward at first, you know, specially
on a windy day; tendency to get between your knees, or wrap itself round your neck. But we're
growing used to each other, and shall get on nicely by-and-by."

More of Tithes Bill. Drearier than ever, now GEDGE's place is empty. Business done.--Report
Stage of Tithes Bill.

Friday.--Conversation as to course of public business. OLD MORALITY regrets Tithes Bill not
through Reporting stage yet. Down on the paper for to-night, but didn't think there would be
much chance of reaching it. So put it down for Monday. If not got through then, must be taken
on Thursday, and JOHN MORLEY's Resolution on Crimes Act shunted along indefinitely. Much regretted
this; duty to Queen and Country, &c.; but no one had yet discovered the secret of inclosing
a quart of fluid matter in a glass receptacle not exceeding the capacity of one pint.

Members thus informed that Tithes Bill was taken off agenda for to-night, went off; House emptied;
and when, at quarter-past Seven, CONYBEARE rose to discuss Mining Royalties, was Counted Out.

"Why, bless me!" cried OLD MORALITY, aghast at the news, "here's a sitting practically wasted,
and we might have used it for the Tithes Bill." Business done.--Motion to abolish Livery Franchise
negatived by 148 votes against 120.

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. VALENTINE'S EVE.

    SCENE--The outside of a small fancy-stationer's in a
    back-street. The windows are plastered with highly-coloured
    caricatures, designed to convey the anonymous amenities
    prescribed by poetic tradition at this Season of the Year. A
    small crowd is inspecting these works of Art and Literature
    with hearty approval.

First Artisan. See this 'ere, BILL? (He spells out with a slow relish.)

  "With yer crawlin,' lick-spittle carneyin' ways,
  Yo think very likely bein' a nippercrit'll pay!
  Still some day it's certain you'll be found out at lorst
  As a cringin', sloimy, snoike in the grorss!"

Why, it might ha' been wrote a-purpose for that there little cantin' beggar up at our shop--blowed
if it mightn't!

Second Artisan. Young MEALY, yer mean? But that's cawmplimentry--for him--that is!

First A. But yer see the ideer of it. They've drawed im a snoike, all 'cept 'is 'ed, d'ye see?
That's why they've wrote "Snoike in the Grorss," underneath. Hor-hor! they must be smart chaps
to think o' sech things as that 'ere, eh? [They move on.

First Servant Girl (reading)--

  "Two squintin' boss-heyes, and 'air all foiry-red.
  You surely can't ever expect to be wed?
  Yer nose shows plain you've took to gin.
  You're a nice party for a wedding-ring!"

I've 'arf a mind to go in and git one o' them to send Missis.

Second S.G. (in service elsewhere). Oh, I would! Go in, SALLY, quick. I can lend yer a ap'ny
towards it.

Sally (meditatively). I'd do it--on'y she'd guess 'ood sent it her!

Second S.G. Let 'er. You can stick 'er out it wasn't you.

Sally. I could, O' course--but it wouldn't be no use, she'd tell the 'andwriting on the hongvelope!
(Gloomily.)

Second S.G. Oh, if that's all, I'll direct it for yer. Come on, SALLY; it will be sech a lark,
and then you can tell me all about what she said arterwards! [They enter the shop.

First Young Person in hat and feathers (reading)--

  "The female 'art you think you'll mash,
  By sporting stick-up collars and a la-di-da moustache.
  But I tell you straight it'll be a long time
  Before I take you to be my Valentine!"

I do wonder what CHORLEY 'AWKINS would say if I sent him one of them.

Second Y.P. But I thought you told me CHORLEY 'AWKINS never took no notice of you?

First Y.P. No more he does--but p'raps this 'ud make him!

A Young Woman (who has fallen out with her fiancé). They ain't arf Valentines this year, I
wish I could come across one with 'orns and a tail!

Elder Sister (to small Brother--in a moral tone). Now, JIMMY, you see what comes o' Book-learnin'.
If you 'adn't gone to the Board School so regular, you wouldn't ha' been able to read all the
potry on the Valentines like you can now, would yer now?