Lavender returned to town more in love than ever; and soon the news of his engagement was spread
abroad, he nothing loath. Most of his club-friends laughed, and prophesied it would come to
nothing. How could a man in Lavender's position marry anybody but an heiress? He could not
afford to go and marry a fisherman's daughter. Others came to the conclusion that artists and
writers and all that sort of people were incomprehensible, and said "Poor beggar!" when they
thought of the fashion in which Lavender had ruined his chances in life. His lady friends,
however, were much more sympathetic. There was a dash of romance in the story; and would not
the Highland girl be a curiosity for a little while after she came to town? Was she like any
of the pictures Mr. Lavender had hanging up in his rooms? Had he not even a sketch of her?
An artist, and yet not have a portrait of the girl he had chosen to marry? Lavender had no
portrait of Sheila to show. Some little photographs he had he kept for his own pocket-book,
while in vain had he tried to get some sketch or picture that would convey to the little world
of his friends and acquaintances some notion of his future bride. They were left to draw on
their imagination for some presentiment of the coming princess.

He told Mrs. Lavender, of course. She said little, but sent for Edward Ingram. Him she questioned
in a cautious, close and yet apparently indifferent way, and then merely said that Frank was
very impetuous, that it was a pity he had resolved on marrying out of his own sphere of life,
but that she hoped the young lady from the Highlands would prove a good wife to him.

"I hope he will prove a good husband to her," said Ingram with unusual sharpness.

"Frank is very impetuous." That was all Mrs. Lavender would say.

By and by, as the spring drew on and the time of the marriage was coming nearer, the important
business of taking and furnishing a house for Sheila's reception occupied the attention of
the young man from morning till night. He had been somewhat disappointed at the cold fashion
in which his aunt looked upon his choice, admitting everything he had to say in praise of Sheila,
but never expressing any approval of his conduct or hope about the future; but now she showed
herself most amiably and generously disposed. She supplied the young man with abundant funds
wherewith to furnish the house according to his own fancy. It was a small place, fronting a
somewhat commonplace square in Notting Hill, but it was to be a miracle of artistic adornment
inside. He tortured himself for days over rival shades and hues; he drew designs for the chairs;
he himself painted a good deal of paneling;, and, in short, gave up his whole time to making
Sheila's future home beautiful. His aunt regarded these preparations with little interest,
but she certainly gave her nephew ample means to indulge the eccentricities of his fancy.

"Isn't she a dear old lady?" said Lavender one night to Ingram. "Look here! A cheque, received
this morning, for two hundred pounds, for plate and glass."

Ingram looked at the bit of pale green paper: "I wish you had earned the money yourself, or
done without the plate until you could buy it with your own money."

"Oh, confound it, Ingram! you carry your puritanical theories too far. Doubtless I shall earn
my own living by and by. Give me time."

"It is now nearly a year since you thought of marrying Sheila Mackenzie, and you have not done
a stroke of work yet."

"I beg your pardon. I have worked a good deal of late, as you will see when you come up to
my rooms."

"Have you sold a single picture since last summer?"

"I cannot make people buy my pictures if they don't choose to do so."

"Have you made any effort to get them sold, or to come to any arrangement with any of the dealers?"

"I have been too busy of late--looking after this house, you know," said Lavender with an air
of apology.

"You were not too busy to paint a fan for Mrs. Lorraine, that people say must have occupied
you for months."

Lavender laughed: "Do you know, Ingram, I think you are jealous of Mrs. Lorraine, on account
of Sheila? Come, you shall go and see her."

"No, thank you."

"Are you afraid of your Puritan principles giving way?"

"I am afraid that you are a very foolish boy," said the other with a good-humored shrug of
resignation, "but I hope to see you mend when you marry."

"Ah, then you will see a difference!" said Lavender seriously; and so the dispute ended.

It had been arranged that Ingram should go up to Lewis to the marriage, and after the ceremony
in Stornoway return to Borva with Mr. Mackenzie, to remain with him a few days. But at the
last moment Ingram was summoned down to Devonshire on account of the serious illness of some
near relative, and accordingly Frank Lavender started by himself to bring back with him his
Highland bride. His stay in Borva was short enough on this occasion. At the end of it there
came a certain wet and boisterous day, the occurrences in which he afterward remembered as
if they had taken place in a dream. There were many faces about, a confusion of tongues, a
good deal of dram-drinking, a skirl of pipes, and a hurry through the rain; but all these things
gave place to the occasional glance that he got from a pair of timid and trusting and beautiful
eyes. Yet Sheila was not Sheila in that dress of white, with her face a trifle pale. She was
more his own Sheila when she had donned her rough garments of blue, and when she stood on the
wet deck of the vessel, with a great gray shawl around her, talking to her father with a brave
effort at cheerfulness, although her lip would occasionally quiver as one or other, of her
friends from Borva--many of them barefooted children--came up to bid her good-bye. Her father
talked rapidly, with a grand affectation of indifference. He swore at the weather. He bade
her see that Bras was properly fed, and if the sea broke over his box in the night, he was
to be rubbed dry, and let out in the morning for a run up and down the deck. She was not to
forget the parcel directed to an innkeeper at Oban. They would find Oban a very nice place
at which to break the journey to London, but as for Greenock, Mackenzie could find no words
with which to describe Greenock.

And then, in the midst of all this, Sheila suddenly said, "Papa, when does the steamer leave?"

"In a few minutes. They have got nearly all the cargo on board."

"Will you do me a great favor, papa?"

"Ay, but what is it, Sheila?"

"I want you not to stay here till the boat sails, and then you will have all the people on
the quay vexing you when you are going away. I want you to bid good-bye to us now, and drive
away round to the point, and we shall see you the last of all when the steamer has got out
of the harbor."

"Ferry well, Sheila, I will do that," he said, knowing well why the girl wished it.

So father and daughter bade good-bye to each other; and Mackenzie went on shore with his face
down, and said not a word to any of his friends on the quay, but got into the wagonette, and,
lashing the horses, drove rapidly away. As he had shaken hands with Lavender, Lavender had
said to him, "Well, we shall soon be back in Borva again to see you;" and the old man had merely
tightened the grip of his hand as he left.

The roar of the steam-pipes ceased, the throb of the engines struck the water, and the great
steamer steamed away from the quay and out of the plain of the harbor into a wide world of
gray waves and wind and rain. There stood Mackenzie as they passed, the dark figure clearly
seen against the pallid colors of the dismal day; and Sheila waved a handkerchief to him until
Stornoway and its lighthouse and all the promontories and bays of the great island had faded
into the white mists that lay along the horizon. And then her arm fell to her side, and for
a moment she stood bewildered, with a strange look in her eyes of grief, and almost of despair.

"Sheila, my darling, you must go below now," said her companion: "you are almost dead with cold."

She looked at him for a moment, as though she had scarcely heard what he said. But his eyes
were full of pity for her: he drew her closer to him, and put his arms round her, and then
she hid her head in his bosom and sobbed there like a child.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE EMERALD.

Dutens and several others who have written upon gems and precious stones during the last two
centuries have asserted that the ancients were unacquainted with the true emerald, and that
Heliodorus, when speaking nearly two thousand years ago of "gems green as a meadow in the spring,"
or Pliny, when describing stone of a "soft green lustre," referred to the peridot, the plasma,
the malachite, or the far rarer gem, the green sapphire. But the antiquary has come to the
rescue with the treasures of the despoiled mounds of Tuscany, the exposed ashes of Herculaneum
and Pompeii, and now exhibits emeralds which were mounted in gold two thousand years before
Columbus dreamed of the New World, or Pizarro and his remorseless band gathered the precious
stones by the hundred-weight from the spoils of Peru. Although these specimens of antique jewelry
set with emeralds may be numbered by the score or more in the museums and "reliquaries" of
Europe, but very few engraved emeralds have descended to us from ancient times: This rarity
is not due to the hardness of the stone, for the ancient lapidaries cut the difficult and still
harder sapphire: therefore we must believe the statement of the early gem-writers that the
emerald was exempted from the glyptic art by common consent on account of its beauty and costliness.

The emerald is now one of the rarest of gems, and its scarcity gives rise to the inquiry as
to what has become of the abundant shower of emeralds which fairly rained upon Spain during
the early days of the conquest of Mexico and Peru, bringing down the value of fine stones to
a trifling price. As with all commercial articles, there is a waste and loss to be accounted
for during the wear of three centuries, but this alone will not explain their present rarity
in civilized countries. Even in the times of Charles II., when the destitution of the country
was extreme, the dukes of Infantado and Albuquerque had millions in diamonds, rubies and precious
stones, yet hardly possessed a single sou. So impoverished was the land, and so slender were
the purses of all, that the duke of Albuquerque dined on an egg and a pigeon, yet it required
six weeks to make an inventory of his plate. At this period, when the nobles gave fêtes the
lamps were often decorated with emeralds and the ceilings garlanded with precious stones. The
women fairly blazed with sparkling gems of fabulous value, while the country was starving.
Most, if not all, of this missing treasure was transferred to Asia, and with the silver current
which flowed steadily from the Spanish coffers into India went many of the emeralds also; for
in those regions this gem is regarded as foreign stone, and the natives, investing it with
the possession of certain talismanic properties, prize it above all earthly treasures.

When the Spaniards commenced their march toward the capital of Mexico, they were astonished
at the magnificence of the costumes of the chiefs who came to meet them as envoys or join them
as allies, and among the splendid gems which adorned their persons they recognized emeralds
and turquoises of such rare perfection and beauty that their cupidity was excited to the highest
degree. During the after years of conquest and occupation the avaricious spoilers sought in
vain for the parent ledge where these precious stones were found. Recent times have, however,
revealed the home of the Mexican turquoise, which has proved to be in the northern part of
Mexico, as the Totonacs informed the inquiring Spaniards. The first of these mines, which is
of great antiquity, is situated in the Cerrillos Mountains, eighteen miles from Santa Fé. The
deposit occurs in soft trachyte, and an immense cavity of several hundred feet in extent has
been excavated by the Indians while searching for this gem in past times. Probably some of
the fine turquoises worn by the Aztec nobles at the time of the Spanish Conquest came from
this mine. Another mine is located in the Sierra Blanca Mountains in New Mexico, but the Navajos
will not allow strangers to visit it. Stones of transcendent beauty have been taken from it,
and handed down in the tribe from generation to generation as heirlooms. Nothing tempts the
cupidity of the Indians to dispose of these gems, and gratitude alone causes them to part with
any of these treasures, which, like the mountaineers of Thibet, they regard with mystical reverence.
The Navajos wear them as ear-drops, by boring them and attaching them to the ear by means of
a deer sinew. Lesser stones are pierced, then strung on sinews and worn as neck-laces. Even
the nobler Ute Indians, when stripping the ornaments of turquoise from the ears of the conquered
Navajos, value them as sacred treasures, and refuse to part with them even for gold or silver.

All the Spanish accounts of the invasion of Mexico agree in the great abundance of emeralds,
both in the adornment of the chiefs and nobles and also in the decoration of the gods, the
thrones and the paraphernalia. The Mexican historian Ixtlilxochitl says the throne of gold
in the palace of Tezcuco was inlaid with turquoises and other precious stones--that a human
skull in front of it was crowned with an immense emerald of a pyramidal form.

The great standard of the republic of Tlascala was richly ornamented with emeralds and silver-work.
The fantastic helmets of the chiefs glittered with gold and precious stones, and their plumes
were set with emeralds. The mantle of Montezuma was held together by a clasp of the green chalchivitl
(jade), and the same precious gem, with emeralds of uncommon size, ornamented other parts of
his dress.

The Mexicans carved the obdurate jade and emerald with wonderful skill, using, like the Peruvians,
nothing but silicious powder and copper instruments alloyed with tin. They also worked with
exquisite taste in gold and silver, and they represented Nature so faithfully and so beautifully
that the great naturalist Hernandez took many of these objects thus portrayed for his models
when describing the natural history of the country.

When Cortés returned home he displayed five emeralds of extraordinary size and beauty, and
presented them to his bride, the niece of the duke de Bejar. On his famous expedition along
the Pacific coast and up the Gulf of California he was reduced to such want as to be obliged
to pawn these jewels for a time. One of them was as precious as Shylock's turquoise, and Gomara
states that some Genoese merchants who examined it in Seville offered forty thousand golden
ducats for it. One of the emeralds was in the form of a rose; the second in that of a horn;
the third like a fish with eyes of gold; the fourth was like a little bell, with a fine pearl
for a tongue, and it bore on its rim the following inscription in Spanish: "Blessed is he who
created thee!" The fifth, which was the most valuable of all, was in the form of a small cup
with a foot of gold, and with four little chains of the same metal attached to a large pearl
as a button: the edge of the cup was of gold, on which was engraved in Latin words, "Inter
natos mulierum non surrexit major." These splendid gems are now buried deep in the sand on
the coast of Barbary, where they were lost in 1529, when Cortés was shipwrecked with the admiral
of Castile whilst on their way to assist Charles V. at the siege of Algiers.

The quantity of emeralds obtained by the Spaniards in their pillage of Mexico was large, but
it was trifling when compared with that collected by Pizarro and his remorseless followers
in the sack of Peru. Many large and magnificent stones were obtained by the Spaniards, but
the transcendent gem of all, called by the Peruvians the Great Mother, and nearly as large
as an ostrich egg, was concealed by the natives, and all the efforts of Pizarro and his successors
to discover it proved unavailing.

The immense uncut Peruvian emerald given by Rudolph II. to the elector of Saxony is still preserved
in the Green Vaults at Dresden. This collection is the finest in the world, and is of the value
of many millions of dollars. The treasures are arranged in eight apartments, each surpassing
the previous one in the splendor and richness of its contents. This museum dates from the early
period when the Freyburg silver-mines yielded vast revenues, and made the Saxon princes among
the richest sovereigns in Europe. With lavish hand these potentates purchased jewels and works
of art, and the treasures they have thus accumulated are of immense value, and remind the traveler
of the gorgeous descriptions of Oriental magnificence.

The finest emerald in Europe is said to belong to the emperor of Russia. It weighs but thirty
carats, but it is of the most perfect transparency and of the most beautiful color. There are
many other fine emeralds among the imperial jewels of the czar, some of which are of great
size and rare beauty. The ancient crown of Vladimir glitters with four great stones of unusual
brilliancy. The grand state sceptre is surmounted by another emerald of great size. The sceptre
of Poland, which is now treasured in the Kremlin, has a long green stone, fractured in the
middle. It is not described, and may be one of the Siberian tourmalines, some of which closely
approach the emerald in hue. The imperial orb of Russia, which is of Byzantine workmanship
of the tenth century, has fifty emeralds. This fact alone would seem to prove that emeralds
were known in Europe or Asia Minor long before the discovery of America; but, on the other
hand, the ancient crown which was taken when Kasan was subjugated in 1553 is destitute of emeralds.
And hence we are inclined to believe the imperial orb to be of modern workmanship, especially
as some of the ancient state chairs do not exhibit emeralds among their decorations of gems
and precious stones.

Nowhere in North America do the true emeralds occur. Professor Cleaveland, who was one of the
best authorities of his day, maintained nearly half a century ago that emeralds which exhibited
a lively and beautiful green hue were found in blasting a canal through a ledge of graphic
granite in the town of Topsham in Maine. Several of the crystals presented so pure, uniform
and rich a green that he ventured to pronounce them precious emeralds. But to-day we are unable
to verify the assertion, or point to a single specimen similar in hue to the emerald from the
above-mentioned locality.

The nearest approach to the emerald in color, with the exception of the incomparable green
tourmalines from Maine, are the beryls of North and South Royalston in the State of Massachusetts.
These beautiful stones exhibit the physical, characteristics of emeralds with the exception
of the color, in which they differ very perceptibly. But to appreciate fully the difference
in hue we must compare the two gems. Then the lively green of the beryl fades away before the
overpowering hue of the emerald, whose rich prismatic green may be taken as the purest type
of that color known to the chemist or the painter.

Two summers ago we visited the localities in Massachusetts which were famous in the days of
Hitchcock and Webster. We found that the beryls occurred in a very coarse granite, where the
quartz appeared in masses and the felspar in huge crystals. These also occur in finer granite,
and exhibit no indications of veins or connection with each other. They are few in number,
and are soon exhausted by blasting, being generally very superficial. After removing several
tons of the rock at the locality at North Royalston, where the beryls appear on the summit
of the loftiest hill, our labors were at length rewarded with two beautiful crystals. One of
them was a fine prism an inch in diameter, of perfect transparency and of a deep sea-green
color, which, however is far from being similar to the transcendent hue of the Granada emeralds,
which exhibit an excess of neither blue nor yellow. The other was yellowish-green, resembling
the chrysoberyls of Brazil.

Other but imperfect crystals were brought to light, some fragments of which exhibited the deepest
golden tints of the topaz, and others the tints of the sherry-wine colored topazes of Siberia.
Magnificent crystals have been found in these localities in times long past, and from the fragments
and sections of crystals found in the débris of early explorations we observed the wide range
of color and the deep longitudinal striae which characterize the renowned beryls from the Altai
Mountains, in Siberia. Lively sea- and grass-green, light and deep yellow, also blue crystals
of various shades, have been found here.

At the quarries on Rollestone Mountain in Fitchburg beryls of a rich golden color have been
blasted out. Some of these approach the chrysoberyl and topaz in hardness and hue. Others so
closely resemble the yellow diamond that they may readily be taken for that superior gem. The
refractive power of these yellow stones is remarkable, and the goniometer will probably reveal
a higher index than is accorded to all the varieties of beryl by the learned Abbé Haüy.

Beautiful transparent beryls have been found among the granite hills of Oxford county in Maine,
and the late Governor Lincoln nearly half a century ago possessed a splendid crystal which
would have rivaled the superb prism found at Mouzzinskaia, and which the Russians value so
highly. The extended and unexplored ledges of granite which rise from the shores of the ocean
at Harpswell in Maine, and stretch north-westward for nearly a hundred miles, quite to the
base of the White Mountain group, are not only rich in beryls, but they contain many of the
rarest minerals known to the mineralogist. And perhaps there is no other field of equal extent
in the country which offers to the mineralogist such a harvest of the rare and curious productions
of the mineral kingdom.

At Haddam in Connecticut beautiful crystals of beryl have been discovered, and one of these,
of fine green color, an inch in diameter and several inches in length, was preserved in the
cabinet of Colonel Gibbs. Professor Silliman possessed another fine one, seven inches in length.

The mountains in Colorado have yielded some fine specimens. But the finest of the beryl species
come from Russia. In the Ural Mountains the crystals are small, but of fine color; in the Altai
Mountains they are very large and of a greenish blue; but in the granitic ledges of Odon Tchelon
in Daouria, on the frontier of China, they are found in the greatest perfection. They occur
on the summit of the mountain in irregular veins of micaceous and white indurated clay, and
are greenish-yellow, pure pale green, greenish-blue and sky-blue. The chief matrix of the beryl
all over the world is graphic granite, but it may occur in other rocks. The light green stones
of Limoges in France appear in a vein of quartz traversing granite. At Royalston we observed
them to spring seemingly from the felspar and project into smoky quartz, becoming more transparent
as they advanced into the harder stone.

The beryl possesses the same crystalline form and specific gravity as the emerald, but its
hardness (especially in the yellow varieties) is sometimes greater. The only perceptible difference
in the two stones is in the color. Cleaveland thought that as the emerald and beryl had the
same essential characters, they might gradually pass into each other; and Klaproth, finding
the oxides of both chrome and iron in one specimen, was led to take the same view. The crystals
of true emerald are almost always small (with the exception of those found in the Wald district
in Siberia), whilst those of the beryl vary from a few grains to more than a ton in weight.
The crystals of both are almost invariably regular hexahedral prisms, sometimes slightly modified.
Those of the beryl we sometimes find quite flat, as though they had been compressed by force:
then again they are acicular and of extraordinary length, considering their slender diameter.
Sometimes their lateral faces are longitudinally striated, and as deeply as the tourmaline,
so that the edges of the prism are rendered indistinct. Other crystals are curved, and some
perforated in the axis like the tourmaline, so as to contain other minerals. Sometimes they
are articulated like the pillars of basalt, and separated at some distance by the intervening
quartz. These modified forms give rise to curious speculations as to their formation and origin.
If we admit the action of fire (which is improbable), then the separation may be easily explained;
but if we insist that they were deposited in the wet way and by slow process, how can we account
for the dislocation? "By electricity," whispers a friend--"by telluric magnetism, that wonderful
unexplained and mysterious force which has caused the grand geological changes of the globe,
and is still at work."

No other gem has been counterfeited with such perfection as the emerald; and in fact it is
utterly impossible to distinguish the artificial from the real gems by the aid of the eye alone:
even the little flaws which lull the suspicions of the inexperienced are easily produced by
a dexterous blow from the mallet of the skilled artisan. Not only emeralds, but most of the
gems and precious stones, are now imitated with such consummate skill as to deceive the eye,
and none but experts are aware of the extent to which these fictitious gems are worn in fashionable
society, for oftentimes the wearers themselves imagine that they possess the real stones. There
is not one in a hundred jewelers who is acquainted with the physical properties of the gems,
and very few can distinguish the diamond from the white zircon or the white topaz, the emerald
from the tourmaline of similar hue, the sapphire from iolite, or the topaz from the Bohemian
yellow quartz. Jewelers are governed generally by sight, which they believe to be infallible,
whilst hardness and specific gravity are the only sure tests.

Artificial gems rivaling in beauty of color the most brilliant and delicately tinted of the
productions of Nature are now made at Paris and in other European cities. The establishments
at Septmoncel in the Jura alone employ a thousand persons, and fabulous quantities of the glittering
pastes are made there and sent to all parts of the world.

A fine specimen of prase when cut affords a fair imitation of the emerald. The green fluor-spar
which Haüy called "emeraude de Carthagène" may also be substituted, but the application of
the file detects the trick with ease. Some of the green tourmalines approach the emeralds in
hue very closely, and by artificial light it is impossible to distinguish them from each other.
Fragments of quartz may be stained by being steeped in green-colored tinctures. The Greeks
stained quartz so like the real gem that Pliny exclaimed against the fraud while declining
to tell how it was done. The Ancona rubies at the present day are made by plunging quartz into
a hot tincture of cochineal, which penetrates the minute fissures of the rock.

But notwithstanding the high art reached by modern glass-makers, they are yet far behind the
ancients in imitating the emerald in point of hardness and lustre. Many emerald pastes of Roman
times still extant are with difficulty distinguished from the real gem, so much harder and
lustrous are they than modern glass. The ancient Phoenician remains found in the island of
Sardinia by Cavalier Cara in 1856 show fine color in their enamels and glass-works. The green
pigment brought home from the ruins of Thebes by Mr. Wilkinson was shown by Dr. Ure to consist
of blue glass in powder, with yellow ochre and colorless glass. From Greek inscriptions dating
from the period of the Peloponnesian war we learn that there were signets of colored glass
among the gems in the treasury of the Parthenon.

Of all the emerald imitations that have descended to us from antiquity, none are more remarkable,
none more interesting to the antiquary and historian, than the famous Sacro Catino of the cathedral
of Genoa. This celebrated relic is a glass dish or patera fourteen inches in width, five inches
in depth and of the richest transparent green color, though disfigured by several flaws. It
was bestowed upon the republic of Genoa by the Crusaders after the capture of Caesarea in 1101,
and was regarded as an equivalent for a large sum of money due from the Christian army. It
was traditionally believed to have been presented to King Solomon by the queen of Sheba, and
afterward preserved in the Temple, and some accounts relate that it was used by Christ at the
institution of the Lord's Supper. The Genoese received it with so much veneration and faith
that twelve nobles were appointed to guard it, and it was exhibited but once a year, when a
priest held it up in his hand to the view of the passing throng. The state in 1319, in a time
of pressing need, pawned the holy relic for twelve hundred marks of gold (two hundred thousand
dollars), and redeemed it with a promptness which proved its belief in the reality of the material
as well as in its sanctity. And it is also related that the Jews, during a period of fifty
years, lent the republic four million francs, holding the sacred relic as a pledge of security.
Seven hundred years passed away, when Napoleon came, and as he swept down over Italy, gathering
her art-treasures, he ordered the "Holy Grail" to be conveyed to Paris. It was deposited in
the Cabinet of Antiquities in the Imperial Library, and the mineralogists quickly discovered
it to be glass. It is due to the memory of Condamine to state that he was the first to doubt
the material of the Sacro Catino, for, when examining it by lamplight in 1757, in the presence
of the princes Corsini, he observed none of the cracks, clouds and specks common to emeralds,
but detected little bubbles of air. In 1815 the Allies ordered its return to the cathedral
of Genoa. During this journey the beautiful relic was broken, but its fragments were restored
by a skillful artisan, and it is now supported upon a tripod, the fragments being held together
by a band of gold filigree. This remarkable object of antiquity, which is of extraordinary
beauty of material and workmanship, furnishes a theme over which the antiquaries love to muse
and wrangle.

Another of the antique monster emeralds, weighing twenty-nine pounds, was presented to the
abbey of Reichenau near Constance by Charlemagne. Beckman has also detected this precious relic
to be glass. And probably the great emerald of two pounds weight brought home from the Holy
Land by one of the dukes of Austria, and now deposited in the collection at Vienna, is of the
same material. The hardness of our glass is yet far inferior to that of the ancients, and even
the ruby lustre of the potters of Umbria, which was so precious to the dilettanti of the Cinque
Cento period, has not been recovered.

The emerald has been a subject of controversy among the chemists and mineralogists, and its
character, especially the cause of its beautiful color, is not clearly defined even at the
present day. But that distinguished chemist, Professor Lewy of Paris, seems to offer, thus
far, the most correct and plausible theory. Ten years ago he boldly asserted that the hue is
not due to the oxide of chromium, and with this opinion he confronted such eminent men as Vauquelin,
Klaproth and others of high rank in the scientific world. Not content with his researches in
his laboratory in Paris, he resolutely crossed the ocean and sought the emerald in its parent
ledges in the lofty table-lands of New Granada. Here he obtained new information of a geological
character which goes far to strengthen his position. The experiments of M. Lewy indicate, if
they do not prove, that the coloring matter of the emerald is organic, and readily destroyed
by heat, which would not be the case if it was due to the oxide of chromium. All my own fire-tests
with the Granada emerald corroborate the views of M. Lewy, for in every instance the gem lost
its hue when submitted to a red heat.

Nevertheless, the recent researches of Wöhler and Rose give negative results. These experienced
chemists kept an emerald at the temperature of melted copper for an hour, and found that, although
the stone had become opaque, the color was not affected. They therefore considered the oxide
of chromium to be the coloring agent, without, however, denying the presence of organic matter.
The amount of the oxide of chromium found by many chemists varies from one to two per cent.,
while Lewy and others found it in a quantity so small as to be inappreciable, and too minute
to be weighed.

Before the ordinary blowpipe the emerald passes rapidly into a whitish vesicular glass, and
with borax it forms a fine green glass, while its sub-species, the beryl, changes into a colorless
bead: with salt of phosphorus it slowly dissolves, leaving a silicious skeleton.[A]

M. Lewy visited the mines at Muzo in Granada, and from the results of his analyses, together
with the fact of finding emeralds in conjunction with the presence of fossil shells in the
limestone in which they occur, he arrived at the conclusion that they have been formed in the
wet way--deposited from a chemical solution. He also found that when extracted they are so
soft and fragile that the largest and finest fragments can be reduced to powder by merely rubbing
them between the fingers, and the crystals often crack and fall to pieces after being removed
from the mine, apparently from loss of water. Consequently, when the emeralds are first extracted
they are laid aside carefully for a few days until the water is evaporated.

This statement relative to the softness of the gem and its subsequent hardening has been met
with a shout of derision from some of the gem-seekers--none louder than that of Barbot, the
retired jeweler. Barbot seems to forget that the rock of which his own house in Paris is constructed
undergoes the same change after being removed from the deep quarries in the catacombs under
the city. This phenomenon is observed with many rocks. Flints acquire additional toughness
by the evaporation of water contained in them. The steatite of St. Anthony's Falls grows harder
on exposure, and other minerals when quarried from considerable depths become firmer on exposure
to the action of the air. Observations of this kind led Kuhlman to investigate the cause, and
he believes that the hardening of rocks is not owing solely to the evaporation of quarry-water,
but that it depends upon the tendency which all earthy matters possess to undergo a spontaneous
crystallization by slow dessication, which commences the moment the rock is exposed to the air.

The coloring matter of the emerald seems to be derived from the decomposition of the remains
of animals who have lived in a bygone age, and whose remains are now found fossilized in the
rock which forms the matrix of the gem. This rock in Granada is a black limestone, with white
veins containing ammonites. Specimens of these rocks exhibiting fragments of emeralds in situ,
and also ammonites, are to be seen in the mineralogical gallery of the Jardin des Plantes in
Paris. Lewy believes that the beautiful tint of these gems is produced by an organic substance,
which he considers to be a carburet of hydrogen, similar to that called chlorophyll, which
constitutes the coloring matter of the leaves of plants; and he has shown that the emeralds
of the darkest hue, which contain the greatest amount of organic matter, lose their color completely
at a low red heat, and become opaque and white; while minerals and pastes which are well known
to be colored by chromium, like the green garnets (the lime-chrome garnets) of Siberia, are
unchanged in hue by the action of heat.

Since the time of the Spanish Conquest, New Granada has furnished the world with the most of
its emeralds. The most famous mines are at Muzo, in the valley of Tunca, between the mountains
of New Granada and Popayan, about seventy-five miles from Santa Fé de Bogota, where every rock,
it is said, contains an emerald. At present the supply of emeralds is very limited, owing to
restrictions on trade and want of capital and energy in mining operations.

Blue as well as green emeralds are found in the Cordillera of the Cubillari. The Esmeraldas
mines in Equador are said to have been worked successfully at one period by the Jesuits. The
Peruvians obtained many emeralds from the barren district of Atacama, and in the times of the
Conquest there were quarries on the River of Emeralds near Barbacoas.

Emeralds are found in Siberia, and some of the localities may have furnished to the ancients
the Scythian gems which Pliny and others mention. In the Wald district magnificent crystals
have been found embedded in mica-slate. One of these--a twin-crystal, now in the Imperial Cabinet
at St. Petersburg--is seven inches long, four inches broad, and weighs four and a half pounds.
There is another mass in the same collection which measures fourteen inches long by twelve
broad and five thick, weighing sixteen and three-quarter pounds troy. This group shows twenty
crystals from a half inch to five inches long, and from one to two inches broad. They were
discovered by a peasant cutting wood near the summit of the mountain. His eye was attracted
by the lustrous sparkling amongst the decomposed mica and where the ground had been exposed
by the uprooting of a tree by the violence of the wind. He collected a number of the crystals,
and brought them to Katharineburg and showed them to M. Kokawin, who recognized them and sent
them to St. Petersburg, where they were critically examined by Van Worth and pronounced to
be emeralds. One of these crystals was presented by the emperor to Humboldt when he visited
St. Petersburg, and it is now deposited in the Berlin collection. Quite a number of emeralds
are now brought from the Siberian localities, and it is believed that enterprise and capital
would produce a large supply of the gem.[B]

The supply of emeralds from South America is very limited, and may be ascribed to want of skillful
mining, as well as to climate, the political condition of the country and the indolence of
its inhabitants. The localities cannot be exhausted, for they are too numerous and extensive.
The elevated regions in Granada admit of scientific exploration by Europeans, and at the present
day the only emerald-mining operations conducted in South America have been prosecuted near
Santa Fé de Bogota by a French company, which has paid the government fourteen thousand dollars
yearly for the right of mining, all the emeralds obtained being sent to Paris to be cut by
the lapidaries of that city.

In the Atacama districts, and along the banks of the River of Emeralds, the physical obstructions
are difficult to overcome, and pestilential diseases of malignant character forbid the long
sojourn of the European. Yet the introduction of Chinese labor may prove successful and highly
remunerative, since the coolie reared among the jungles and rice-swamps of Southern China is
quite as exempt from malarial fevers as the negro.

The price of the emerald has no fixed and extended scale, like that of the diamond, and the
fluctuations of its value during the past three centuries form an interesting chapter in the
history of gems.

In the time of Dutens (1777) the price of small stones of the first quality was one louis the
carat; one and a half carats, five louis; two carats, ten louis; and beyond this weight no
rule of value could be established. In De Boot's day (1600) emeralds were so plenty as to be
worth only a quarter as much as the diamond. The markets were glutted with the frequent importations
from Peru, and thirteen years before the above-mentioned period one vessel brought from South
America two hundred and three pounds of fine emeralds, worth at the present valuation more
than seven millions of dollars. At the beginning of this century, according to Caire, they
were worth no more than twenty-four francs (or about five dollars) the carat, and for a long
time antecedent to 1850 they were valued at only fifteen dollars the carat. Since this period
they have become very rare, and their valuation has advanced enormously. In fact, the value
of the emerald now exceeds that of the diamond, and is rapidly approaching the ratio fixed
by Benevenuto Cellini in the middle of the sixteenth century, which rated the emerald at four
times, and the ruby at eight times, the value of the diamond. Perfect stones (the emerald is
exceedingly liable to flaw, the beryl is more free, and the green sapphire is rarely impaired
by fissures or cracks) of one carat in weight are worth at the present day two hundred dollars
in gold. Perfect gems of two carats weight will command five hundred dollars in gold, while
larger stones are sold at extravagant prices.

Most of our aqua-marinas come from Brazil and Siberia, and small stones are sold at trifling
prices. Some of them, however, when perfect and of fine color, command fabulous sums. The superb
little beryl found at Mouzzinskaia is valued by the Russians at the enormous sum of one hundred
and twenty thousand dollars, although the crystal weighs but little more than one ounce. Another
rough prism preserved in the Museum at Paris, and weighing less than one hundred grains, has
received the tempting offer of fifteen thousand francs.

A.C. HAMLIN, M.D.

[Footnote A: A curious result happened to the elder Silliman when experimenting with a Peruvian
emerald before the compound blowpipe. The reducing flame instantly melted it into a transparent
green globule. Perhaps the intense heat of this all-powerful flame, which reduces even the
diamond, recalled the colors which disappear at a lower temperature. But this could not be
done if the color was due to organic matter, which is annihilated or modified beyond recall
by combustion.]

[Footnote B: Several of the natural crystals of the Siberian emeralds of large size and beautiful
color are now to be seen in the valuable and choice collections of Messrs. Clay and William
S. Vaux of Philadelphia.]

BERRYTOWN.

CHAPTER VIII.

It rained during the night. The wind blew feebly in the morning, and the sunlight glimmered
dully from behind the flying gray clouds. Catharine looked out of her window, anxiously pushing
aside the boughs full of wet white roses. The sense of desolation was not strong enough upon
her to make her forget that Peter had not yet cut the clover in the lower meadow, and that
such a rain was bad for the tomatoes. Doctor McCall was at the gate, propping up an old Bourbon
rose, an especial favorite of her father's. Somebody tapped at her door, and Miss Muller rustled
in in a flounced white muslin and rose-colored ribbons. She too hurried to the window and looked
down.

"I asked him to meet me here, Kitty. I can't make you understand, probably, but the Water-cure
House is so bald and bare! There is something in the shade here, and the old books, and this
wilderness of roses, that forms a fitting background for a friendship like ours, aesthetically
considered."

"I'm very glad. It's lucky I told Jane to have waffles--"

"I'll go down," interrupted Miss Muller, "and direct her about the table. Coarse tablecloths
and oily butter would jar against the finest emotions. What very pretty shoulders you have,
child! Such women as you, like potatoes, are best au naturel. Now, with those corsets, and
this red shawl over the back of your chair, you would make a very good Madonna of the Rubens
school. Men's ideal of womanhood then was to be plump, insipid and a mother."

"But about the oily butter?" said Kitty, glancing back over the aforesaid shoulders as she
stooped to lace her shoes, while Maria hurried off to the kitchen. "Jane will jar against her
finer emotions, I fancy, when she begins to order her about."

But Kitty lost all relish for fun before she sat down to the breakfast-table. Mr. Muller came
in. The poor little man hurried to her side: "I passed a sleepless night, Catharine. I feared
that I had been rough with you. I forget so often how gentle and tender you are, my darling."

Catharine was puzzled: "Upon my word, I've forgotten what happened. And I really never feel
especially gentle or tender. You are mistaken about that."

When she took her place behind the urn, Maria motioned her brother to the foot of the table,
and then nodded significantly. "Now you two can imagine a month or two has passed," she said.

Even Doctor McCall smiled meaningly. Mr. Muller blushed, and glanced shyly at Catharine. But
she looked at him unmoved. "Our table will not be like this," gravely. "You forget the three
hundred blue-coats between." Maria laughed, but Doctor McCall for the first time looked steadily
at the girl.

First of all, perhaps, Kitty was just then a housekeeper. She waited anxiously to see if the
steak was properly rare and the omelette light, nodded brightly to Jane, who stood watchful
behind her, and then looked over at her betrothed, thinking how soon they would sit down tête-à-tête
for the rest of their lives, perhaps for eternity, for, according to her orthodoxy, there could
be no new loves in heaven. How fat he was, and bald! The mild blue eyes behind their glasses
took possession of her and held her.

She listened to the talk between Doctor McCall and Miss Muller in a language she had never
learned. Maria's share of it was largely made up of headlong dives into Spencer and Darwin,
with reminiscences of The Dial, while Doctor McCall's was anchored fast down to facts; but
it was all alive, suggestive, brilliant. They were young. They were drinking life and love
with full cups. She (looking over at the bald head and spectacled eyes) had gone straight out
of childhood into middle age and respectability.

The breakfast was over at last. Miss Muller followed Doctor McCall into the shop, where he
fell to turning over the old books, and then to the garden. What was the use of a stage properly
set if the drama would not begin?

"Pray do not worry any longer with that old bush," as he went back to Peter's rose. "It is
not a trait of yours to be persistent about trifles. Or stay: give me a bud for my hair."

"Not these!" sharply, holding her hand. "I could not see one of these roses on any woman's head."

She smiled, very well pleased: "You perceive some subtle connection between me and the flower?"

"Nothing of the sort. There are some, planted, I suppose, by that little girl, which will be
more becoming to your face."

"You are repelled by 'the little girl,' I see, John. I always told you your instincts were
magnetic. That type of woman is antipathetic to you."

He laughed: "I have no instincts, hardly ideas, about either roses or types of women. If I
avoided Miss Vogdes, it was because her name recalled one of the old hard experiences of my
boyhood. The girl herself is harmless enough, no doubt."

"And the rose?"

"The rose? Why, we have no time to waste in such talk as this. You have not yet told me how
you managed to get your profession. When I last saw you you had set all the old professors
in the university at defiance. Did you carry lectures and cliniques by strategy or assault?
You have good fighting qualities, Maria."

She would rather not have gone over her battle with the doctors just then: she would rather
he had talked of her "magnetic instincts," her hair, her eyes--anything else than her fighting
qualities. But she told him. There was an inexplicable delight to her in telling him anything--even
the time of day. Was he not a pioneer, a captain among men, a seer in the realms of thought,
keeping step with her in all her high imaginings? Ordinary people, it is true, set McCall down
as an ordinary fellow, genial and hearty--not a very skillful physician, perhaps, but a shrewd
farmer, and the best judge of mules or peaches in Kent county. Maria, however, saw him with
the soul's eye.

Kitty meanwhile sat by the window mending the clothes that had come out of the wash. Mr. Muller
was reading some letters relative to the school to her. This was the day of the week on which
she always mended the clothes, and Mr. Muller had fallen into the habit of reading to her while
she did so. But to-day the Reformatory rose before her a prison, the gates of which were about
to close on her. The heap of stockings, the touch of the darning cotton, the sound of Mr. Muller's
droning voice, were maddening to her: every moment she made a tangle in her thread, looking
down at Maria under the Bourbon rose, and the attentive face bent over her. Where should she
go? What should she do? Had the world nothing in it for her but this? Yesterday she had made
up her mind to go to Delaware to find Hugh Guinness, alive or dead, and bring him to his father.
That would be work worth doing. This morning she remembered that Delaware was a wide hunting-ground--that
she had never been ten miles from home in her life. If there were anybody to give her advice!
This Doctor McCall had seemed to her to-day as, in fact, he did to most people, practical,
honest, full of information. He would too, she somehow felt, understand her wild fancy. But--

"Why should Doctor McCall dislike me?" she broke in at the close of one of Mr. Muller's expositions.

"What an absurd fancy, child!" looking up in amazement. "The man was civil enough to you for
so slight an acquaintance."

"It was more than dislike," vehemently. "He watched me all through breakfast as though he owed
me a grudge. I could see it in his eyes."

"You oughtn't to see any eyes but mine, Cathie dear," with anxious playfulness. "Why should
you care for the opinion of any man?"

"Because he is different from any man I ever knew. He belongs to the world outside. I always
did wonder if people would like me out there," said Kitty, too doggedly in earnest to see how
her words hurt her listener. "If one could be like those two people yonder! They seem to know
everything--they can do everything!"

"Maria is well enough--for a woman," dryly. "But I never heard McCall credited with exceptional
ability of any sort."

Kitty glanced at him: "Of course you're right," quickly. "Men only can judge of character:
we women are apt to be silly about such things." Her kind heart felt a wrench at having hurt
this good soul. She put her fingers on his fat hand with a touch that was almost a caress.
He turned red with surprise and pleasure. "But it is pleasant," she said, glancing down again
to the Bourbon rose, "to see such love as that. They will be married soon, I suppose?"

"Very likely. I never knew of any love in the case before. But Maria is such a manager! And
you think of love, then, sometimes?" timidly putting his arm about her.

"Oh to be sure! How can you doubt that? But it grows chilly. I must bring a sacque," hurrying
away; and in fact she looked cold, and shivered.

CHAPTER IX.

"Doctor McCall recognizes the Book-house, just as I did, as the right background for communion
like ours," Miss Muller said complacently to Kitty a week later. "He meets me here every day."

"Yes," said Catharine with a perplexed look. She had no special instincts or intuitions, but
her eyes were as keen and observant as a lynx's. He came, she saw, to the Book-house every
day. But had he no other purpose than to meet Maria?

"I did not know that McCall affected scholarship," said Mr. Muller tartly the next day. "He
tells me that he has a peach-farm to manage. August is no time to loiter away, poring over
old books. Just the peach season."

"No," Kitty replied demurely. But her face wore again the puzzled look. She began to watch
Doctor McCall. He really knew but little, she saw, of rare books: his reading of them was a
mere pretence. He was neither a lazy nor a morbid man: what pleasure could he have in neglecting
his work day after day, sitting alone in the dusky old shop as if held there by some enchantment?
Kitty knew that she herself had nothing to do with it: she appeared to be no more in his way
than a tame dog would be, and, after the first annoyance which she gave him, was really little
more noticed. But there is a certain sense of home-snugness and comfort in the presence of
tame dogs and of women like Kitty: one cannot be long in the room with either without throwing
them a kind word or petting them in some way. Doctor McCall was just the man to fall into such
a habit. Down on the farm, his cattle, his hands, even the neighbors with whom he argued on
politics, could all have testified to his easy, large good-humor.

"Oh, we are the best of friends," he said indifferently when Maria found Kitty chattering to
him once, very much as she did to old Peter. But when Miss Muller, who had no petty jealousies,
enlarged on the singular beauty of her eyes and some good points in her shape, he did not respond.
"I never could talk of a woman as if she were a horse," he said. "And this little girl seems
to me unusually human."

"There's really nothing in her, though. Poor William! He is marrying eyes, I tell him. It's
a pitiable marriage!"

"Yes, it is," said Doctor McCall gravely.

After that he neglected the old books sometimes to talk to Kitty. He thought she was such an
immature, thoughtless creature that she would not notice that the subject he chose was always
the same--her daily life, with old Peter for her chum and confidant.

"Mr. Guinness, then, has had no companion but you?" he said one day, after a searching inspection
of her face.

"No, nobody but me," quite forgetful, as she and Peter were too apt to be, that her mother
was alive.

"And has had none for years?"

"Not since his son died. Hugh Guinness is dead, you know."

Doctor McCall was looking thoughtfully at the floor. He rose presently and took up his hat:
"The old man cannot have been unhappy with such love as you could give him. No man could."

Kitty was sitting, as usual, on a low stool pasting labels on some dog-eared books: as long
as McCall stood looking at her round cheeks and double chin she pasted on, apparently unconscious
that he was there, but when he turned away she watched him shrewdly as he went uneasily up
and down the shop, and finally, with a curt good-bye, turned out of the door. As the stout
figure passed through the low branches of the walnuts her gray eyes began to shine. Her Mystery
was nearly solved.

Dropping paste and books in a heap, she ran after him, taking a short cut through the currant
bushes, so that when he passed on the outer side of the garden fence there she was quietly
waiting, her head and face darkly framed by a thick creeper.

"Well?" smiling down, amused, as he might to a playful kitten.

"Doctor McCall," in the queer formal fashion that was Kitty's own, "I should be glad if you
would come back this evening. Without Maria. I have some business--that is, a plan of mine.
Well, it is a certain thing that--"

"That you wish to consult me about?" after waiting for her to finish.

"Yes, that's it," nodding energetically.

"Very well." He stood looking at her arm on the fence, and the face resting with its chin upon
it. McCall, of all men, hated a scene, and he had an uneasy consciousness that he had just
betrayed unexplained feeling in the house, and was therefore glad to slip back to commonplaces.
Besides, Kitty was exactly the kind of woman whom all men feel an insane desire to help at
first sight. "You have a plan, eh? and you want advice, not knowing much about business?"

There was not the least necessity for him to say this, having asked it before. But he did it,
and waited to hear Kitty say yes again, and waited still, before he lifted his hat and said
good-bye, to see the shadow of a waving branch creep over her white chin and lose itself in
her neck. Most men would have done the same, just as they would stop to whistle a laugh from
a fat, pretty baby on the street, and then go on, leaving it behind. The last thing in the
world to consult on their business, or to ask for help or comfort when trouble met them, or death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Muller spent the whole day at the Book-house, but Doctor McCall did not come, as she expected.
As evening approached she began to shiver, and had premonitory symptoms of clairvoyance, and
went home at last, to Kitty's relief. A slow drizzling rain set in: the damp fogs that belong
to that river-bottom walled in the house and hung flat over the walnuts like a roof. Catharine
had made her own corner of the Book-shop snug and cheerful. The space was wide, the light soft
and bright. She placed her own chair by the table, Peter's not far from it. She meant to produce
a great effect on this man to-night, to change the whole current of his life, without having
the help of either love or even friendship. Unconsciously she planned to bring him close to
her, though very likely she had never heard of personal magnetism, or any of the curious secrets
political speakers or actors or revivalists could have told her of the deadening effects of
distance and empty benches.

Then Kitty, in her room overhead, looked at herself in the glass, arrayed in a soft cashmere,
in color blue, still farther toned down, by certain softer fringes and loops, into the very
ideal garb for a man's type of "yielding, lovely woman." It was one of the sacred wedding-dresses.

"Maria could never look like this," tying a lace handkerchief about her neck, pulling the soft
rings of hair looser about her ears, setting her head on one side, and half shutting her eyes
to see the thick and curly lashes.

There was no danger of interruption. Maria was safely lodged in the Water-cure House, and the
very idea of Mr. Muller's glossy black shoes and dainty brown umbrella venturing out in the
rain made Kitty laugh.

"The dear, good soul is finical as a cat," with the good-natured indulgence of a mother for
a child. Suddenly she stopped, stared at herself in the glass. "Why, he is my husband!" she
said, speaking to the blushing, blue-robed figure as to another person. Then she hastily unbuttoned,
unlooped the pretty dress, threw it off, putting on her usual gray wrapper and knotting her
hair more tightly back than ever in a comb. "He has been very good to me--very good to me,"
her chin trembling a good deal.

Then she went down to meet Doctor McCall, who that moment came into the Book-shop, stopping
at the door to take off and shake his oilskin coat.

"It is a wet night," she said, just as though he were a stranger. She did not know what else
to say or what he answered as she went about, trimming the lamp, dragging out a chair for him,
closing the window curtains. Both McCall and Catharine were ordinary people, accustomed to
keep up a good flow of talk on ordinary subjects, the weather or any joke or gossip that was
nearest to them. There had been no passages of love or hate between them to account for her
forced formality, her trembling and flushing, and urgent almost angry wish to remind him that
she was Mr. Muller's affianced wife. She felt this with a new contempt for herself.

As for Doctor McCall, he leaned comfortably back in his arm-chair and dried his legs at the
grate filled with red-hot coals, while he listened to the soft rustle of her skirts as she
moved noiselessly about him. It is the peculiarity of women like Kitty, to whom Nature has
denied the governing power of ideas or great personal beauty or magnetism, such as she gave
to Miss Muller, that there is a certain impalpable force and attraction in their most petty
actions and words, to which men yield. Miss Muller could have watched Kitty all day dragging
chairs and trimming lamps, unmoved farther than to pronounce her little better than an idiot.
But Peter, Muller or John McCall could not look at her for five minutes without classing her
with Cordelia and Desdemona and all the other sweet fools for whom men have died, and whom
the world yet keeps sacred in pathetic memory. Some day too, when Catharine should be a mother--though
giving to her older children, little more than to the baby on her breast, soft touches and
gentle words--she would bind them to her as no other kind, of mother could do--by such bonds
that until they were gray-haired no power should be like hers. Miss Muller neither saw nor
foresaw such things. But Doctor McCall did. "If I had had such a mother I should not have been
what I am," he thought. It was a curious fancy to have about a young girl. But she seemed to
embody all the womanliness that had been lacking in his life. Of course she was nothing to
him. She was to be that prig Muller's wife, and he was quite satisfied that she should be.
If he married, Maria Muller would be his wife. Yet, oddly enough, he felt to-night, for the
first time, the necessity that Maria should know how marriage was barred out from him, and
felt, for the first time, too, a maddening anger that it was so barred. However, Doctor McCall
was never meant by Nature for a solitary man housed alone with morbid thoughts: he was the
stuff out of which useful citizens are made--John Andersons of husbands, doting, gullible fathers.

Remembering the bar in his life, his skeleton, ghost or whatever it was, he was only moved
to get up and stretch himself, saying, "I've stayed in Berrytown too long. When you have told
me your plan, I'll say good-bye to you, Miss Vogdes, and this old house. I shall be off to-morrow."

Kitty had just caught a moth in the flame of the candle. She carried it to the window. "You
will come back soon, of course?" her back still toward him.

"No, I think not. I am neglecting my business. And I, of all men in the world, have least right
to loiter about this old house, to look in on its home-life or on you."

Kitty gave him a sharp glance, as though some sudden emergency was clear before her which her
tact failed to meet. She was folding the bits of muslin at which she had been sewing in a basket:
she finished slowly, put the basket away, and sat down at the table, with her elbow on it and
her chin on her hand, her gray eyes suggesting a deeper and unspoken meaning to her words:
"But for my plan?"

"Ah! to be sure! You want advice?" seating himself comfortably. Her confusion was a pretty
thing to watch, the red creeping up her neck into her face, blotting out its delicate tints,
the uncertain glances, the full bitten lip. Doctor McCall quite forgot his own trouble in the
keen pleasure of the sight.

"Perhaps--You do not quite understand my position here? Mr. Guinness is not my own father."

"No, I knew that."

"But you cannot know what he has been to me: I never knew until the last few days."

"Why within these few days, Miss Vogdes?"

"Because I saw you and Maria: I saw what love was. I began to think about it. I never have
loved anybody but him," she went on headlong, utterly blind to all inferences. "There's a thing
I can do for him, Doctor McCall, before I marry Mr. Muller, and I must do it. It will make
his old age happier than any other part of his life has been."

McCall nodded, leaning forward. It was nothing but an imprudent girl dragging out her secrets
before a stranger; nothing but a heated face, wet eyes, a sweet milky breath; but no tragedy
he had ever seen on the stage had moved him so uncontrollably--no, not any crisis in his own
life--with such delicious, inexplicable emotion.

"Well, what is it you can do?" after waiting for her to go on.

There was a moment's silence.

"My father," said Kitty, "had once a great trouble. It has made an old man of him before his
time. I find that I can take it from him." She looked up at him with this. Now, there was a
certain shrewd penetration under the softness of Kitty's eyes. Noting it, McCall instantly
lost sight of her beauty and tears. He returned her look coolly.

"What was his trouble?"

"Mr. Guinness had a son. He has believed him to be dead for years: I know that he is not dead."

Doctor McCall waited, with her eyes still upon him. "Well?" he said, attentive.

"And then," pushing back the table and rising, "when I heard that, I meant to go and find Hugh
Guinness, and bring him back to his father."

Whatever this matter might be to her hearer, it was the most real thing in life to Catharine,
and putting it into words gave it a sudden new force. She felt that she ought to hold her tongue,
but she could not. She only knew that the lighted room, the beating of the rain without, the
watchful guarded face on the other side of the table, shook and frightened and angered her
unaccountably.

"You should not laugh at me," she said. "This is the first work I ever set myself to do. It
is better than nursing three hundred children."

"I am not laughing at you, God knows! But this Guinness, if he be alive, remains away voluntarily.
There must be a reason for that. You do not consider."

"I do not care to consider. Is the man a log or a stone? If I found him," crossing the room
in her heat until she stood beside him--"if I brought him to the old house and to his father?
Why, look at this!" dragging open the drawer and taking out the broken gun and rod. "See what
he has kept for years--all that was left him of his boy! Look, at that single hair! If Hugh
Guinness stood where you do, and touched these things as you are touching them, could he turn
his back on the old man?"

Now, Doctor McCall did not touch gun nor cap nor hair, but he bent over the table, looking
at them as if he were looking at the dead. He seemed to have forgotten that Kitty was there.

At last he stood upright: "Poor little chap!" with a laugh. "There seemed to be no reason,
when he went gunning and fishing like other boys, why he should not stand here to-day with
as fair a chance for happiness as any other man. Did there? Just a trifling block laid in his
way, a push down hill, and no force could ever drag him up again."

Kitty, her eyes on his, stood silent. Do what he would, he could not shake off her eyes: they
wrenched the truth from him, "I knew this man Guinness once," he said.

She nodded: "Yes, I know you did."

"Sit down beside me here, and I will tell you what kind of man he was."

But she did not sit down. An unaccountable terror or timidity seemed to have paralyzed her.
She looked aside--everywhere but in his face: "I wanted you to tell me how to reach him, how
to touch him: I know what manner of man he is."

"You have heard from your mother? A mixed Border Pike and Mephistopheles, eh? The devil and
his victim rolled into one?" He shifted his heavy body uneasily, glancing toward the door.
Chief among the graver secret emotions which she had roused in him was the momentary annoyance
of not knowing how to deal with this chicken-hearted little girl before him, scared, but on
fire from head to foot.

Kitty was quite confident. If it had been Maria Muller who had thus set herself to tamper with
a man's life, she would have done it trembling, with fear and self-distrust. She had brains
which could feel and react against the passions she evoked, and were competent to warn her
of the peril of her work. But as for Kitty--

Here was Hugh Guinness before her, a Cain with the curse of God upon him. It was clearly her
business to bring him back again to his father, and afterward convert him into a member of
the church, if possible. She went about the work with as little doubt as if it had been the
making of a pudding.

But she was shy, tender, womanly withal. Doctor McCall laughed as he looked down at her, and
spoke deliberately, as though giving his opinion of a patient to another physician. "I'll tell
you honestly my opinion of Hugh Guinness. He was, first of all, a thoroughly ordinary, commonplace
man, with neither great virtues nor great vices, nor force of any kind. If he had had that,
he could have recovered himself when he began to fall. But he did not recover himself."

"What drove him down in the first place?"

He hesitated: "I suppose that his home and religion became hateful to him. Boys have unreasonable
prejudices at times."

"And then, in despair--"

"Despair? Nonsense! Now don't figure to yourself a romantic Hotspur of a fellow rushing into
hell because heaven's gate was shut on him. At nineteen Hugh Guinness drank and fought and
gambled, as other ill-managed boys do to work off the rank fever of blood. Unfortunately--"
he stopped, and then added in a lower voice, quickly, "he made a mistake while the fever was
on him which was irretrievable."

"A mistake?" Kitty was always of an inquiring turn of mind, but now she felt as if her curiosity
was more than she could bear, while she stood, her eyes passing over the burly figure in summer
clothes and the high-featured, pleasant face with its close-cut moustache. What dreadful secret
was hid behind this good-humored, every-day propriety of linen duck, friendly eyes and reddish
moustache over a mouth that often smiled? You might meet their like any day upon the streets.
Was it a murder? At best some crime, perhaps, which had sent him to the penitentiary. Or--and
church taught Kitty shuddered as a vague remembrance of the "unpardonable sin" rose before
her like an actual horror. Whatever it was, it stood between herself and him, keeping them
apart for ever.

"Irretrievable?" she said. It was only curiosity, she knew, but her voice sounded oddly far
off to herself, the room was hazy, her whole body seemed to shrink together.

"What can it matter to you? You belong to another man, Miss Vogdes." She lifted herself erect.
Doctor McCall was speaking more loudly than usual and looking keenly into her face.

"I know: I shall be Mr. Muller's wife. Of course, I recollect. But you--this Hugh Guinness
is my father's son," stammered Kitty, her face very white. "I had some interest in him."

"Yes, that's true. He is, as you say, in some sort a brother of yours." He took her hand for
the first time, looking down at her face with some meaning in his own, inexplicable, very likely,
to himself, though the thoughts in Kitty's shallow brain were clear enough to him. "You are
tired of standing," seating her gently in Peter's chair. A thick lock of hair had fallen over
her face: he put out his hand to remove it, but drew back quickly. "We have talked too long,
Miss Vogdes," in a brisk, cheerful tone. "Some other time, perhaps, we can return to this question
of Hugh Guinness. That is," with a certain significance of manner, "if it be one in which Mr.
Muller wishes you to take an interest." Nodding good-humoredly to her, he buttoned on his oilskin
cape and went out into the rain without another word. He pulled off his cap outside to let
the rain and wind reach his head, drawing a long breath as if to get rid of some foul air and heat.

CHAPTER X.

Of all that wet August the next morning was the freshest and cheerfulest. Doctor McCall had
packed his valise, carried it to the station, and was now walking up the street, his hands
clasped behind him and his head down, after the leisurely fashion of Delaware and Jersey farmers.
People nodded an approving good-morning to him. Busy Berrytown had passed verdict on him as
a man who was idle for a purpose, who permitted his brain to lie fallow, and who "loafed and
invited his soul" during these two weeks for the best spiritual hygienic reasons.

"Too much brain-work, my friend Doctor Maria Muller tells me," said the lawyer, De Camp, to
a group of men at the station as McCall passed them. "Is here for repose."

"Advanced?" said little Herr Bluhm, the phrenologist.

"Well, no. But Doctor Maria thinks his mind is open to conviction, and that he would prove
a strong worker should he remain here. She has already begun to enlighten him on our newest
theories as to a Spontaneous Creation and a Consolidated Republic."

"Should think his properer study would be potatoes. Smells of the barn-yard in his talk," rejoined
one of the party.

"Doctor Maria's a fool!" snapped Bluhm. "She has read the index to Bastian's book, and denies
her Creator, and gabbles of Bacteria, boiled and unboiled, ever since."

Doctor McCall meanwhile went down the cinder-path, to all passers-by a clean-shaven, healthy
gentleman out in search of an appetite for breakfast. But in reality he was deciding his whole
life in that brief walk. Why, he asked himself once or twice, should he be unlike the other
clean-shaven, healthy men that he met? God knows he had no relish for mystery. He was, as he
had told Kitty, a commonplace man, a thrifty Delaware farmer, in hearty good-fellowship with
his neighbors, his cattle, the ground he tilled, and, he thought reverently, with the God who
had made him and them. He had made a mistake in his early youth, but it was a mistake which
every tenth man makes--which had no doubt driven half these men and women about him into their
visionary creeds and hard work--that of an unhappy marriage. It was many years since he had
heard of his wife: she had grown tired of warning him of the new paths of shame and crime she
had found for herself. In fact, the year in which they had lived together was now so long past
as to seem like a miserable half-forgotten dream.

Irretrievable? Yes, it was irretrievable. There was, first of all, the stupid, boyish error
of a change of name. If he came back as this child wished, all the annoyance which that entailed
would follow him, and the humiliating circumstances which had led to it would be brought to
life from their unclean graves. His father believed him dead. Better the quiet, softened grief
which that had left than the disgrace which would follow his return. "I should have to tell
him my wife's story," muttered McCall. But he did not turn pale nor break into a cold sweat
at the remembrance, as Miss Muller's hero should have done. This was an old sore--serious enough,
but one which he meant to make the best of, according to his habit. He had been a fool, he
thought, to come back and hang about the old place for the pleasure of hearing his father talked
of, and of touching the things he had handled a day or two before. Growing into middle age,
Hugh Guinness's likeness to his father had increased year by year. The two men were simple
as boys in some respects, and would have been satisfied alone together. The younger man halted
now on the foot-bridge which crossed the creek, looking out the different hollows where his
father had taken him to fish when he was a boy, and thinking of their life then. "But his wife
and mine would have to be put into the scales now," with an attempt at whistling which died
out discordantly.

There was one person to whom the shameful confession of his marriage must be made--Miss Muller.
That was the result, he thought, of his absurd whim of loitering about Berry town. When he
had met Maria Muller before, he had no reason to think she cared a doit whether he was married
or single. Now--McCall's color changed, alone as he was, with shame and annoyance. With all
his experience of life and of women, he had as little self-confidence as an awkward girl. But
Maria had left him no room for doubt.

"It would be the right thing to do. I ought to tell her. But it will be a slight matter to
her, no doubt."

If he had been a single man, in all probability he would have asked Maria Muller to marry him
that day. He was a susceptible fellow, with a man's ordinary vanity and passions; and Maria's
bright sweet face, their loiterings along shady lanes and under Bourbon roses, the perpetual
deference she paid to his stupendous intellect, had had due effect. He was not the man to see
a strong, beautiful woman turn pale and tremble at his touch, and preserve his phlegm.

He threw away his cigar, and jumped the fence into the Water-cure grounds. "I'll tell her now,
and then be off from old Berry town for ever."

Miss Muller was standing in the porch. She leaned over the railing, looking at the ragged rain-clouds
driven swiftly over the blue distance, and at the wet cornfields and clumps of bay bushes gray
with berries which filled the damp air with their pungent smell. Her dog, a little black-and-tan
terrier, bit at her skirt. She had just been lecturing to her three students on the vertebrae,
and when she took him up could not help fumbling over his bones, even while she perceived the
color and scent of the morning. They gave her so keen a pleasure that the tears rushed to her
eyes, and she stopped punching Hero's back.

"'The rain is over and gone,'" she recited softly to herself, "'the vines with the tender grape
give a good smell, and the time of the singing of birds has come.' There is no poetry like
that old Hebrew love-song. If only it had not been hackneyed by being turned into a theological
allegory! Ha, doggy, doggy! There comes a friend of ours!" suddenly laughing and hugging him
as she caught sight of a large man coming up the road with a swinging gait and loose white
overcoat. She broke off a rose and put it in her breast, tied on her hat and hurried down to
meet him, the Song of Solomon still keeping time with her thoughts in a lofty cadence: "'Who
is this that cometh up from the wilderness leaning upon his beloved?

"What's that, Maria? I heard you intoning as I came up the hill?" Her eyes were soft and luminous
and her voice unsteady. I am afraid Doctor McCall's eyes were warmer in their admiration than
they should have been under the circumstances. Why should she not tell him? She repeated it.
She had been chattering for two hours on cervical, dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, without stopping
to take breath. But she grew red now and broke down miserably.

"'Love is strong as death,' eh?" said McCall, awkwardly holding the gate open for her. "Friendship
ought to be tough enough to bear a pretty stout strain, then. Such friendship as ours, I mean.
For I think a man and woman can be friends without--without--Well, what do you think, Maria?"
feeling a sudden imbecility in all his big body.

The little woman beside him looked up scared and ready to cry: "I don't know, John, I'm sure.
Do be quiet, Hero!" Then like a flash she saw that he meant to ask her to marry him: he meant
to place love upon the higher basis of friendship. Maria was used to people who found new names
for old things. Why! why! what folly was this, as she grew cold and hot by turns? So often
she had pictured his coming to claim her, and how she would go out as one calm controlling
soul should to meet another, to be dual yet united through all eternity; and here she was shivering
and tongue-tied, like any silly school-girl! Love-making and marriage were at a discount with
the Advanced Club of which she was a member, and classed with dancing, fashionable dressing
and other such paltry feminine frivolities. But Maria had meant to show them that a woman could
really love and marry, and preserve her own dignity. She tried to find her footing now.

"Come into the summer-house, John. I should think our friendship would bear any strain, for
it does not depend on external ties."

"No, that's true. Now, as to your phalansteries and women's clubs and sitz-baths, why that's
all flummery to me. But young women must have their whims until they have husbands to occupy
their minds, I suppose. There's that little girl at the Book-shop: how many leagues of tatting
do you suppose she makes in a year?"

"I really cannot say," sharply.

"But as to our friendship, Maria--"

"Yes. There may be a lack of external bonds" (speaking deliberately, for she wanted to remember
this crisis of her life as accurate in all its minutiae); "but there is a primal unity, a mysterious
sympathy, in power and emotion. At least, so it seems to me," suddenly stammering and picking
up Hero to avoid looking at McCall, who stood in front of her.

"I don't know. Primal unities are rather hazy to me. I can tell by a woman's eye and hand-shake
if she is pure-minded and sweet-tempered, and pretty well, too, what she thinks of me. That's
about as far as I go."

"It pleases you to wear this mask of dullness, I know," with an indulgent smile, with which
Titania might have fondled the ass's head.

"But as to our friendship," gravely, "I feel I've hardly been fair to you. Friendship demands
candor, and there is one matter on which I have not dealt plainly with you. You have been an
honest, firm friend to me, Maria. I had no right to withhold my confidence from you."

If Miss Muller had not been known as an advanced philosopher, basing her life upon the Central
Truths, she would have gained some credit as a shrewd woman of business. "What do you mean,
John?" she said, turning a cool I steady countenance toward him.

"Sit down and I will tell you what I mean."

       *       *       *       *       *

The patients, taking soon after their two hours' exercise, made their jokes on the battle between
the two systems, seeing the allopathist McCall and Doctor Maria Haynes Muller in the summer-house
engaged in such long and earnest converse. Homoeopathy, they guessed, had the worst of it,
for the lady was visibly agitated and McCall apparently unmoved. Indeed, when he left her and
crossed the garden, nodding to such of them as he knew, he had a satisfied, relieved face.

Maria went immediately in to visit her ward as usual. The patients observed that she was milder
than was her wont, and deadly pale. One of them, addressing her as "Miss Muller," however,
was sharply rebuked: "I earned my right to the title of physician too hardly to give it up
for that which belongs to every simpering school-girl," she said. "Besides," with a queer pitiful
smile, "the sooner we doctors sink the fact that we are women the better for the cause--and
for us."

She met her brother in the course of the morning, and drew him into the consulting-room.

"William," she said, fumbling with the buttons of his coat, "he is going: he is going to take
the afternoon train."

"Who? That fellow McCall?"

"Why do you speak so of him, William? He has just told me his story. He is so wretched! he
has been used so hardly!" She could scarcely keep back the tears. In her new weakness and weariness
it was such comfort to talk to and hang upon this fat, stupid little brother, whom usually
she despised.

"Wretched, eh? He don't look it, then. As stout and easy-going a fellow as I know. Come, come,
Maria! The man has been imposing some story on you to work on your sensibilities. I never fancied
him, as you know. He doesn't want to borrow money, eh?" with sudden alarm.

"Money? No."

"What is it, then? Don't look at me in that dazed way. You, are going to have one of your attacks.
I do wish you had Kitty's constitution and some sense."

"William," rousing herself, "he is going. He will never come back to Berrytown or to me. Our
whole lives depend on my seeing him once more. Ask him to wait for a day--an hour."

"If he doesn't take the noon express, he can't go in an hour. You certainly know that, Maria.
Well, if I have to find him, I'd better go at once," buttoning his coat irritably. "I never
did like the fellow."

"Beg him to stay. Tell him that I have thought of a way of escape," following him, catching
him by his sleeve, her small face absolutely without color and her eyes glittering.

"Yes, I'm going. But I must find my overshoes first. It begins to look like rain."

Miss Muller watched him to the door, and then crossed the hall to her own room, locking the
door behind her. The square table was piled with medical books. She sat down and dropped her
head on her arms. Over went a bound volume of the Lancet and a folio on diseases of the kidneys
to the floor. She looked down at them. "And I was willing to give him up for that--that trash!"
sobbing and rubbing her arms like a beaten child. But she had so strong a habit of talking
that even in this pain the words would come: "I loved him so. He would have married me! And
I must be kept from him by a law of society! It is--it is," rising and wrenching her hands
together, "a damnable law!"

For Miss Muller had taught herself to think and talk like a man.

REBECCA HARDING DAVIS.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

BOWERY ENGLAND.

A party of four Americans in London--Mr. Hill Bunker of Boston, Mrs. Bunker, his wife, Miss
Amy Abell of New York, and myself--we find ourselves growing weary of that noisy town. We talk
of a trip to the country. It is the merry month of May.

"Just the time for 'bowery England, as Bulwer phrases it," says Amy. "Let us go to Romsey and
see the Boyces."

Carried unanimously. We take the train from the Waterloo Station two hours later. When we get
down at Romsey, "Fly, sir?" asks the attentive porter--carries our luggage, calls the fly and
touches his hat thankfully for three-pence. The Romsey fly is a lumbering, two-seated carriage,
rather more pretentious than a London cab, but far behind the glossy gorgeousness of a New
York hackney-coach.

A short drive brings us to the White Horse Inn, under whose covered arch we roll, and are met
at the door by a maid. She conducts us to a stuffy coffee-room up a flight of crumbling old
stairs, and meekly desires to know our will.

"Send the landlord, please."

The landlord comes, bowing low, and we make inquiries concerning the distance to Paultons,
the estate where the Boyces have been spending the summer, and where we venture to hope they
still are. He says it is a matter of four miles, and that we can have a fly over for six shillings.
We order the fly to be got ready at once, and inquire if we can have dinner now, it being late
in the afternoon.

"Yes, sir," he replies. "Would you like some chicken and sparrowgrass?"

"How long will they be in cooking?"

"Matter of arf an hour, sir."

As this means a matter of an hour, I ask if he can't get us up something in a shorter time.
He suggests that chops can be cooked sooner.

"Chops be it, then. In the words of the immortal Pickwick, chops and tomato sauce."

"No tomarter sauce, sir," with profound gravity.

"Sparrowgrass, then--chops and sparrowgrass."

He retires, and we all rush to the windows and look out upon the quaint old village--a curious,
old-fashioned scene. We feel as if we had somehow become transmogrified, and instead of being
flesh-and-blood men and women from practical New York, were playing our parts in some old English
novel. Odd little tumble-down houses, with peaked roofs and mullioned windows, ranged about
a triangular common, look sleepily out upon a statue of Palmerston in the middle of the open
place, the gray walls of Romsey Abbey, a thousand years old, against the blue sky behind them.

About six o'clock our fly is at the door, and we are off, rattling through the ancient streets
into the smooth open country. Oh the quaint, delightful old hedge-lined road, deep down below
the level of the fields on either side--a green lane shut in with fragrance and delicious quiet!
The hedges, perched upon the bank, tower high above our heads, and there is no break in them
save at rustic gates. We meet characters on the road who have just stepped out of Trollope's
novels. A young man and girl stand on a bridge across which we trundle, leaning companionably
on the old stone parapet, and looking up the little river through a long avenue of trees to
the pillared mansion of "Broadlands." A laborer, with a gay flower stuck in the buttonhole
of his smock-frock, goes whistling along the brown road under the hedgerows. A country gentleman,
driving alone in a basket phaeton, looks inquisitively at our half-closed windows as if expecting
the sight of an acquaintance. Crumbling milestones stand by the wayside, with deep-cut letters
so smoothed by the hand of time that we cannot read them as we pass. Flowers grow thick in
the hedgerows. A boy is lolling on the green grass in front of a cottage door--an uncombed
English hind, with a face of rustic simplicity and stolid ignorance.

At last we come to a gate which bars the road. The driver gets down and opens it, and when
we have passed through in the fly he tells us we are now on Mr. Stanley's broad estate of Paultons.
The driver wears corduroy trousers, and touches his hat every time we speak to him and every
time he answers. He does not merely touch it when he is first addressed, but he touches it
continually throughout the conversation. Bunker considers his conduct extremely touching.

We are presently driving through a bosky wood, and the driver touches his hat to remark that
we are nearly there now, he thinks.

"But where is the bad road the landlord spoke of?"

"Bad road, sir?" touching hat.

"Yes: the landlord said we could not drive fast because the road was bad. Where is it bad?"

"All along back of 'ere, sir," touching hat. "We have pahst the worst of it naow, sir: the
rest is not so 'illy, sir," touching hat.

"Hilly? We haven't passed over anything bigger than a knoll. If this is what the landlord meant
by a hilly road, it is a rich joke. Why, it's as smooth as a floor, almost."

"He should go to California," says Amy, who has feeling reminiscences. "He should go to the
Yosemite Valley, over the road which runs through Chinese Camp and Hodgden's. Probably the
man never saw a rough road in his life. I doubt if there is such a thing in England."

After half an hour's trundling along the unfenced roads of this fine old estate, crossing ancient
stone bridges, rolling through leafy groves, startling fat cattle from their browsing, getting
a hat-touch from a shepherd who is leading his flocks across the fields in true pastoral style,
we reach the manor-house, standing stately amid dells and dingles, pollards of fantastic growth
and patches of fern and gorse. The Boyces have returned to Paris, but nurse and the children
are still at the gardener's house, and thither we drive along the banks of a sylvan lake, beyond
which the rooks are cawing about the chimneys.

The old gardener is nurse's father, and though he is now so old that he no longer does any
work, he is maintained in comfort by the family in whose service he has spent a lifetime. Forty
years of honest service in one family! No wonder he feels that his destiny is for ever linked
with that of the people who have been his masters, man and boy, for forty years. He has a delightful
little cottage with thatched roof and mullioned windows, and pretty vines rioting all over
it, and in front of it a flower-garden full of early bloom. The lilacs which grow about so
profusely are not of the color of our lilacs in America, being of a rich purple; we should
not know they were lilacs but for the familiar odor.

A delicious ride back to Romsey in the twilight, carrying two of the Boyce children with us.
In the evening I stroll out alone, to look at the village in the moonlight. The streets are
like narrow lanes. The houses are very old, and for the most part dilapidated, but streets
and houses are all as clean and neat as wax. Presently I come upon the old abbey, its rugged
walls and towers looming solemnly in the moonlight, and pass the parson's house near by, all
overrun with vines, thinking of Trollope again and Framley parsonage.

Before going back to the White Horse Inn I wander round the village until I find that I am
lost. The discovery is not very alarming in a place so small as this, even at night. I resolve
to turn every corner to the left, and see what will come of it. I presently find that getting
out into the country comes of it; and having crossed a bridge and come upon a silent brickyard,
and seen the long road winding away into the open country, I am reminded of Oliver Twist--or
was it Pip?--running away from home and trudging off under the stars to London. Somehow, it
seems this road must lead to London.

Turning about, but still walking at random and turning left-hand corners, I presently see the
abbey tower again, and make for it. The street through which I pass is apparently the home
of the British working man. A light burning in any house is most rare. Occasionally a man can
be seen through the odd little windows, smoking a pipe by the blaze of the fire on the hearth.
Here are the abbey windows, and now I know where I am. Down this narrow, winding street, across
the open place where Lord Palmerston stands stonily in the moonlight, and I am at the White
Horse Inn again.

At nine o'clock next morning there is a rap at the door of my room. The door being opened a
man-servant is discovered, who touches his forehead (having no hat to touch) and says, "The
ladies would like to 'ave you breakfast with them, sir."

He is so very respectful in his manner of saying this that he is inaudible, and being asked
what he said, repeats the touching his forehead and then repeats his words.

There are no muffins at breakfast--a fact which I record merely because this is the first time
since we have been in England that this peculiarly English dish has been omitted at breakfast.
It appears on inquiry that muffins are a luxury of large towns. In villages they are rarely
obtainable at less than about a week's notice. In fact, you can't get anything to eat, of any
sort, without pretty liberal notice.

After breakfast we go to see the old abbey. It is an imposing and well-preserved pile. It was
founded by Ethelwold, a thane--one of those righting, praying, thieving old rascals who lived
in the tenth century, and made things lively for any one who went past their houses with money
on his person. When Ethelwold had stolen an unusually large sum one day, he founded the monastery
and stocked it with nuns. It was but a wooden shanty at first, but after having served till
it was worm-eaten and rotting with age, it was torn down and a fine stone convent was built.

We walk about in that part of the abbey which is free from pews--by far the larger part--and
stare at the monumental stones let into the floor and walls. If we did not know that Romsey
had been the home of Palmerston, we should learn it now, for these stones are thickly covered
with the legends of virtue in his family--wives, sisters, sons and so forth, whose remains
lie "in the vault beneath." After perusing these numerous testimonials to the truly wonderful
virtues of an aristocracy whom we are permitted to survive, and after dropping some shillings
in the charity-box, which rather startle us by the noise they make, we pass out of the cool
abbey into the hot churchyard, and read on a lonely stone which stands in a corner by the gate
that here lies the dust of Mary Ann Brown, "for thirty-five years faithful servant to Mr. Appleford."
Mary Ann no doubt had other virtues, but they are not recorded: this is sufficient for a servant.

An hour's ride on the velvet cushions of a railway carriage brings us, with our Paultons friends,
the Boyce boys, to Southampton, which was an old town when King Canute was young. We take rooms
at a pretentious marble hotel with a mansard roof, attached to the station--a railroad hotel,
in fact, but strikingly unlike that institution as we know it in America. Wide halls, solid
stone staircases, gorgeous coffee-room, black-coated waiters, and the inevitable buxom landlady
with a regiment of blooming daughters for assistants--one presiding over the accounts, another
officiating at the beer-pumps, a third to answer questions, and all very much under the influence
of their back hair and other charms of person. One of them alleviates the monotony of the office
duties by working at embroidery in bright worsteds.

Strolling out, Bunker and I consult certain shabby worthies who are yawning on the boxes of
a long line of wretched hacks drawn up by the sidewalk across the street, and find that we
can charter a vehicle for two shillings an hour. These cabbies have more nearly the air of
our own noble hackmen than any we have seen in England. Americans are no novelty to them, for
ship-loads of American tourists are put off here at frequent intervals, and the cabbies have
a thin imitation of the voting hackman's independence. They stop short, however, of his impudence.
They are lazy, but they touch their hats occasionally.

We choose two of the tumble-down vehicles and go after the ladies. My driver is an elderly
man with a hat which has seen better days, and I have chosen his hack, not because it is less
likely to drop off its wheels than the others, but because he himself looks like a seedy Bohemian.
He proves to be a very intelligent fellow, with a ready turn for description which serves him
in good stead whenever his horse gets tired of walking and stops short. At such times our Bohemian
pretends that he has stopped the horse himself in order to point out and comment upon some
curious thing in the immediate vicinity.

It is pleasant driving. The hack is open, and we hoist sun-umbrellas and look about comfortably.
Presently the weary horse stops in the middle of the street.

"'Ere you are, sir," says Cabby briskly, turning half round on his box and pointing to an old
stone structure which stretches quite across the High street. "This 'ere is the old Bar Gate,
sir, one of the hancient gates of the town. Part of the horiginal town wall. Was a large ditch
'ere, sir, and another there, and a stone bridge betwixt the two, and the young bucks in them
days did use to practice harchery right 'ere where you see the lamp-post. The Guild'all is
hin the gate, sir, right hinside it, with a passage hup. I'll drive through the harch, sir,
and you'll see the hother side. Cluck!" (to the horse).

On the other side, the horse not taking a notion to stop again, the driver is not forced to
resume his remarks. Turning about as we pass on, we look up at the old Norman gate-tower, with
its handsome archway and projecting buttresses, and Amy says she fancies she sees a knight
in armor looking out through the narrow crevice which may have been a window in olden times.
This, being an altogether proper fancy for the place, is received with applause.

The next time the horse concludes to stop we are in the midst of what is here called the Common--in
fact, a magnificent old forest park, with a smooth road running through it, and numberless
winding paths in among the bosky depths. I fancy Central Park might come to look like this
if allowed to go untrimmed and unfussed-over for two or three hundred years.

"The Common, sir," says Cabby, turning about, "where King Chawles did use to 'unt wild boars.
Fav'rite walk of Halexander Pope, sir, the poet, and Doctor Watts, which wrote the 'ymn-book.
Cluck!"

From the top of a high hill a splendid wide landscape is seen, with Romsey in the distance,
and (the horse having stopped again) Cabby points out Queen Elizabeth's shooting-box across
the fields. In a lot close by cricketers are at play, and a little farther on, where there
is a vine-covered beerhouse, a crowd of clod-hoppers are gathered in a green field, looking
at two of their number engaged in a rough-and-tumble fight in their shirt-sleeves.

The road after this running down hill, the horse continues to jog along for a considerable
distance, stopping at last under a towering old wall looking out on the sea.

"Wind Whistle Tower, sir," says Cabby, pointing up at a square tower projecting from the old
wall overhead, and above it the remains of an old round tower thickly overrun with ivy. And,
using his fingers industriously, Cabby proceeds to call off the names of various castles and
towers here visible--notably, Prince Edward's Tower, bold and round, from whose summit three
men were looking down.

"What are those?" asks Bunker in the carriage behind us, pointing to the old brass guns which
sit on the wall like Humpty Dumpty.

"Them, sir," says Cabby, "was put there by 'Enry the Heighth, and this 'ere wall was the purtection
of the town when the Frenchmen hassaulted it."

"Ho!" says Bunker, contemptuously. "Just fancy one of our ironclads paying any attention to
the barking of those popguns!"

Whereupon the horse starts again, and we go lazily on, Cabby dropping in a word of enlightenment
here and there to the effect that this old tumble-down part of the ancient wall is the celebrated
Arcade, which formed part of the wall of the King's Palace; and this queer old lane running
up through the walls like a sewer is Cuckoo lane; and that is Bugle street, where in olden
times the warden blew; and here are the remains of Canute's palace, with its elliptical and
circular arches and curious mouldings.

Discharging the cab in the High street, we walk about. In a shop where we pause for a moment
there is a quartette of half-naked barbarians, such as, with all our boasted varieties of humanity,
were never yet seen in New York. We have abundant Chinese and Japanese there, and occasionally
an Arab or a Turk, and the word African means with us a man and a brother behind our chair
at dinner or wielding a razor in a barber-shop. These men here are pure barbarians, just landed
from a vessel direct from Africa. Hideously tattooed, and their heads shaved in regular ridges
of black wool, with narrow patches of black scalp between, they are here in a small tradesman's
shop in bowery England buying shirts. They know not a word of English, but chatter among themselves
the most horrible lingo known to the Hamitic group of tongues. They grimace in a frightful
manner, and skip and dance, and writhe their half-naked bodies into the most exaggerated contortions
known to the language of signs. The dignified English salesmen are at their wits' end how to
treat them. The instinct of the British shopkeeper fights desperately with his disposition
to be shocked. From the Ashantee gentlemen's gestures it can only be concluded that white shirts
are wanted, but when white shirts are shown the negroes make furious objection to the plaited
bosoms. They want shirts such as are fashionable at home. It is easy to be seen that they are
Dandy Jims in Africa. They are all young, and, in a sense, spruce. One of them carries a little
switch cane, evidently just bought: while he examines the shirts, testing the strength of the
stuff by pulling it with his two hands, he holds his cane between his bare legs for safe-keeping.

Sitting in the billiard-room of the hotel in the evening smoking our cigars, Bunker and I are
accosted by a brisk little man, who asks us if we play billiards. Bunker doesn't. I do sometimes
at home, but not the English game.

"Oh, we play the 'Merican game too. 'Appy to play the 'Merican game with you, sir."

"Try him a game," says Bunker. "It won't hurt you."

Not liking to refuse an invitation from a polite Englishman, who appears to be a stranger here,
I consent. This is billiard-room etiquette the world over.

The cue is like a whip-stock. It positively runs down to a point not bigger than a shirt-button,
and it bends like a switch. The balls are not much larger than marbles. To make up for this,
the table is big enough for a back yard, broad, high, dull of cushion, and with six huge pockets.
I am ignominiously beaten. My ball jumps like a living thing. It hops off the table upon the
floor at almost every shot, and when it does not go on the floor it goes into one of the six
yawning pockets. The pockets bear the same relative proportion to the balls that a tea-cup
bears to a French pea. At the end of the game my ball has been everywhere except where I intended
it to go, and I have "scratched" thirty.

"A hundred's the game," says the Englishman, putting up his cue. "One shilling."

I wonder if this is an English custom--to pay your victor a shilling, instead of paying the
keeper of the tables. But as there is no one else to pay, I pay the Englishman. Bunker has
fallen asleep in his chair.

"Going on the Continent?" the Englishman asks.

"Not at present. We return to London first, and go from there."

"'Ave you got a guide?"

I am on the point of saying that guides are a nuisance I do not tolerate, when the Englishman
hands me a bit of paste-board. "There is my card, sir," he says. "A. SHARPE, Interpreter and
Courier." On the opposite side I read--

  SPEAKS         SPRICHT         PARLE        PARLA
  French,      Französich,     Frangais,    Francese,
  German,      Deutsch,        Allemand,    Tedesco,
  Italian and  Italienisch u.  Italien et   Italiano ed
  English      Englisch        Anglais      Inglese
  fluently     sehr geläufig.  courrament.  correntemente.

At present he has charge of this billiard-room, but he is ready to follow me to the ends of
the earth for a period of not less than three months. I tell him I can get on without a guide.

"But I would go on the most reasonable terms. I would go for as low as ten pounds a month and
my expenses."

"Would you go for nothing?" Bunker wakes up and pops this out at him so suddenly as to quite
take his breath away.

He expands his hands at his trousers pockets, shrugs his shoulders and looks volumes of reproach.

"Because," Bunker adds, in a soothing tone, "I shouldn't like to have you along, even at that
price."

He immediately goes to putting the room to rights.

"Horrible breath that man had," says Bunker when we come out: "did you notice it?"

"Yes."

"Take that breath around with us on the Continent! Why, if he was in Cologne itself, his breath
would be in the majority."

I had my umbrella in the billiard-room, and next morning I can't find it anywhere. At breakfast
I ask the pompous head-waiter if he knows of my umbrella. He states that he does not. After
breakfast I look in the billiard-room. It is not there. I go down to the office, and interrupt
the worsted work there in progress by requesting that a search be made for my missing umbrella.
The young lady whose ear I have gained kindly condescends to call the porter, and turning me
over to that functionary returns to her worsted. The porter is respectful, but doubtful. The
moment he learns that the lost article is an umbrella his manner is pervaded with a gentle
hopelessness. He, however, listens forbearingly to my story.

"And aboot what time was it, sir, when ye went ty bed?"

"About half-past eleven."

"Oh, then the night porter ull know of it, sir. He's abed now. I'll ask him when he gets oop."

And so, when we go to Netley Abbey, I take a covered cab, because of my lost umbrella. It was
a beautiful umbrella to keep off the sun. Nobody can make an umbrella like an Englishman. I
should be sorry to lose it. I bought it in Regent street only a few days ago, but I already
love it with a passionate affection.

Through the hot paved streets, over a floating bridge, past the cliff at the river's mouth,
through a shady grove of noble yews and sycamores, past a picturesque hamlet full of vine-curtained
and straw-thatched cottages, through a forest of oaks and past a willow copse, and there is
the grand old ruin of Netley Abbey lifting its picturesque and solemn fingers of ivy-hung stone
above the tops of the trees which surround and shelter it in its hoary age.

It is really curious how dramatically effective a grand old ruin is. The weird sense of being
in the presence of olden time comes over us immediately. We look about us to see the spirit
of some cloistered monk come stealing by with hood and girdle. Here--actually here, in these
nooks all crumbling under Time's gnawing tooth--did old Cistercian monks kneel with shaved
heads and confess their sins, and their bones have been powdered into dust three hundred years!
Romsey Abbey--within whose well-kept walls we rather yawned over Palmerstonian eulogiums--is
a thousand years old. This abbey is only six hundred and thirty-two years old. Romsey has been
restored, and modern men go to church there on Sunday decorously. Netley has been left to go
to utter ruin. Grass grows in its long-drawn aisles. Owls hoot in its moss-clothed chimneys.
It is dramatically effective.

We wander through cloistered courts into the main body of the church. Yonder stood the pulpit,
here gathered the worshipers. The carpet is green grass. Trees grow within the walls. Ivy clambers
from side to side of the tall windows, in place of the stained glass once there. Most of the
windows have tumbled to decay, walls and all. The roof is the sky--naught else.

We climb up the stone staircase in the turret. All the stone steps are worn with deep hollows
where human feet have trodden up and down for centuries, and storms have sent rivulets of water
pouring through many a wild night. Some of the steps are worn quite in two and broken away,
which makes the ascent frightening to the ladies.

Up here ("on the second floor," as Bunker says) the carpet is again grass, and Bunker and I
clamber through a little archway into the cloister gallery, where the monks used to look down
on the service below when they felt inclined. The ladies look after us, brave adventurers that
we are (only two or three million men have been here before us, perhaps, since the ruin became
a popular success), and refuse to follow in our rash footsteps. The crumbling wall is full
of owls' nests. Rooks and swallows fly continually in and out of their holes. We could kick
a loose stone down into the chancel if there were any stones to kick.

The ladies declare themselves dizzy and afraid, and we help them down the dark winding turret
staircase again, and go into the enclosed parts of the ruin. Here is where the monks lived.
The walls still stand, and parts of the roof. The windows are thickly ivy-hung and moss-grown.
Here is the room where the monks did whilom dine. For three hundred years this dining-room
was in daily use, and in the spot where erst the dining-table stood now grows a stalwart tree,
whose branches tower and spread beyond the crumbling walls. Passing strange!

More strange is the sight in the next room, the chapter-house, where the abbot held his gravest
councils, and where the most honored of the monks were buried beneath the floor when they died.
And since the roof fell in, after long battling with storms, perhaps a hundred years after
the last monk was buried, one day a seed fell. A tree grew up in the room. It spread its tall
branches high above the piled-up stones, and shook its brown leaves down, autumn after autumn,
for years and years. It grew slowly old, and at last it died. It fell down in its death in
the room where it had grown, and its once sturdy trunk struck against the old ruined walls
and broke. Its roots were torn out of the ground by the fall, and stuck up their gnarled fingers
in the empty room. And the grass grew over the roots, weaving a green cloak to hide their nakedness.
The old trunk stretches now across the space in the room, and leans its old head against the
abbey wall. I didn't read this story in a guide-book. It was told to me by the principal actor,
the tree.

In the abbot's kitchen we get into the huge hooded fireplace--seven of us--and there is room
for more. We look up the chimney and see the glossy green ivy leaves overhead, and the blue
sky shining beyond them. We toss a pebble down into the subterranean passage where, they say,
the monks were wont to pass out after provisions during a time of siege; which must have been
somewhat demoralizing to the besiegers, whoever they were. I stoop to pick up something in
the grass of the kitchen floor, which has a glitter of gold upon it, and my face flushes with
eager anticipation as I seize it.

"What have you found?" asks Amy.

"A relic of the monks?" asks Bunker.

"It's a champagne cork," I am forced to reply. "The truth is, Netley Abbey is a show, like
Niagara Falls and Bunker Hill Monument. Of course crowds of tourists come here, and of course
they pop champagne and ginger beer, and cut their confounded initials in the venerable stones."

"Yes," says Bunker, "I saw 'W.S.' cut in the wall at the top of the turret stairs. Saves you
the trouble, you know."

"I don't do that sort of thing, thank you."

Nevertheless, it was curious to see some nobody's name cut at full length in the stone, with
the date underneath--1770.

When we return to the hotel the night porter reports that he has not found my umbrella. So
I must go off without it. Our train leaves at ten minutes past five this afternoon, and we
shall be in London early in the evening. It is now four o'clock: we have ordered dinner for
this hour, and so we sit down to our soup.

"Please give us our dinner without any delay now," I say to the pompous head-waiter, "for we
must take the train at ten minutes past five."

The man bows stiffly and retires. We finish the soup, and wait. When we get tired of waiting
we call the head-waiter to us: "Are you hastening our dinner?"

"Fish directly, sir," he answers, and walks solemnly away. We begin to grow fidgety. Fifteen
minutes since the soup, and no fish yet. Bunker swears he'll blow the head-waiter up in another
minute. Just as he is quite ready for this explosion the fish arrives. All hail! I lay it open.

"Why, it's not done!" I cry in consternation. "There, there! Take it away, and bring the meat."

With an air of grave offence the man bears it solemnly out. Then we wait again. And wait. And wait.

"Good gracious!" cries Bunker, "here's half an hour gone, and we've had nothing but soup! I
really must blow this fellow up."

"Stop! there it comes."

Enter the waiter with great dignity, and solemnly deposits before us--the fish again!

He has had it recooked. We attack it hurriedly, and bid the waiter for Goodness' sake bring
the rest of the dinner instantly, or we must leave it.

"And I'm about half starved," growls Bunker.

More waiting. Five minutes pass. Ten.

"Oh come, I can't stand this!" cries Bunker, jumping up with his napkin round his neck, and
striding over to the head-waiter, where he stands in a Turveydroppy attitude, leaning against
a sideboard with his arms folded. "Look here!" Bunker ejaculates: "can you be made to understand
that we are in a hurry? Would half a dollar be any inducement to you to wake up and look around
lively? Because we have got to take those cars in exactly twelve minutes," showing his watch,
"and as the dinner is already paid for, I want to get it before I go."

"Certainly, sir," says the pompous ass with slow indifference, "dinner directly. John!" to
our waiter, who is now placing the meat on the table, "serve the genl'm'n's dinner directly."

Bunker stares at the fellow as Clown stares at Harlequin after having cut him in two, in dumb
amazement at the fact that Harlequin is not in the least disturbed by being cut in two.

"I wonder," he mutters as he returns to the table, "if that unmitigated wooden image of a dunderhead
would pay any attention if I were to kick him?"

"No--not if you were to tie a pack of fire-crackers to his coat-tail and light them. He knows
his business too well. The first duty of an English head-waiter is to be dignified, as it is
that of a French head-waiter to be vigilant and polite."

"Besides," remarks Amy quietly, "I don't suppose the man had an idea of what you meant by 'those
cars,' if he even knew what a half dollar signified."

"Well, we must be off. Time's up. We shall miss the train. Good-bye, boys. You can sit still
and finish your dinner in peace."

Good-bye to our friends from Paultons--good-bye. And then we rush out, and do miss the train.
It is five o'clock ten minutes and a quarter.

English trains go on time--English dinners don't.

We finally get off at seven o'clock. Just before we leave a waiter comes up to me and says
in a casual manner, "Found your humbreller yet, sir?"

"No."

"Wat kind of er humbreller was it, sir?"

"Neat little brown silk umbrella, with an ivory handle."

"W'y, I wouldn't wonder if that was your humbreller in the corner now in the reading-room, sir."

I make haste to look. Yes, there it is, my beloved, long-lost umbrella, quietly leaning against
the wall in a dark corner, behind a pillar, behind a big arm-chair, where nobody ever placed
it, I'll take my oath, but this rascally waiter, who expects to get a shilling for showing
where he hid it.

"Is that your humbreller, sir?" the waiter says, rubbing his hands and getting in my way as
I walk briskly out, at peril of being stumbled over by my hurrying feet. I scorn to reply,
but I give him a glance of such withering contempt that I trust it pierced to his wicked heart,
and will remain there, a punishment and a warning, to the last day of his base life. An English
waiter's hide is very thick, however. He has probably hidden many a gentleman's umbrella since.

At eleven o'clock we are back in our cozy London lodgings, and at twelve we are sleeping the
sleep of profound fatigue, and dreaming of ghostly monks wandering among the weird old ruins
of Netley.

WIRT SIKES.

DAY-DREAM.

  Here, in the heart of the hills, I lie,
  Nothing but me 'twixt earth and sky--
  An amethyst and an emerald stone
  Hung and hollowed for me alone!

  Is it a dream, or can it be
  That there is life apart from me?--
  A larger world than the circling bound
  Of light and color that lap me round?

  Drowsily, dully, through my brain,
  Like some recurrent, vague refrain,
  A world of fancy comes and goes--
  Shadowy pleasures, shadowy woes.

  Spectral toils and troubles seem
  Fashioned out of this foolish dream:
  Round my charmèd quiet creep
  Phantom creatures that laugh and weep.

  Nay, I know they are meaningless,
  Visions of utter idleness:
  Nothing was, nor ever will be,
  Save the hills and the heavens and me.

KATE PUTNAM OSGOOD.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

THE GLADSTONE FAMILY.

There is no doubt that had Mr. Gladstone followed his personal inclinations when his Irish
education scheme broke down last March, he would have retired from office. He is now sixty-four,
and it may be fairly questioned whether there exists a man who for forty-six years has worked
his brain harder. It is no light labor to read for the highest honors in even one school at
Oxford, and Mr. Gladstone read for them in two. He gained "a double first," which meant at
that time a first class both in classics and mathematics. Forthwith he plunged into political
essay-writing, until in 1834 he further added to his labors by entering the House of Commons
as M.P. for Newark.

Mr. Gladstone's father was, as most people are aware, a Liverpool merchant of Scotch descent.
This gentleman was the architect of his own fortunes, which arose in no slight degree out of
his connection with the United States. Having been sent to this country by a firm largely interested
in the corn trade, he discharged their business to their entire satisfaction, whilst at the
same time he made very valuable business connections on his own account, which materially served
him when at a later period he himself embarked in business. He made a large fortune, but it
did not appear at his death to be so great as it was, because he gave his younger sons the
bulk of their portions during his lifetime--to avoid legacy duty, people said. To his eldest
son he left considerable estates in Scotland--to the younger sons, about one hundred thousand
pounds apiece. The eldest, Sir Thomas Gladstone, is a very worthy man, but nowise remarkable
for ability. He has one son, and has had six daughters. Four survive, and all are unmarried.

The next brother, Robertson, an eccentric person whose indiscreet speeches must often have
made his statesman brother feel very hot, continues the paternal business at Liverpool. The
third, John Neilson, was, socially speaking, the flower of the flock. He was a captain in the
navy, from which he had retired many years prior to his death in 1863, and a member of Parliament.
By his wife, a singularly excellent and charming woman, he had several children, who may be
said to pretty nearly monopolize the feminine charms of the Gladstone family. One of these
married the earl of Belmore, an Irish nobleman, who lately returned from a not very successful
gubernatorial career in New South Wales. Both Sir Thomas and Captain Gladstone were decided
Conservatives.

William Ewart is the fourth brother. "That young brother of mine will make a noise in the world
some of these days," said Captain Gladstone to a fellow-middy as his brother turned away from
bidding him good-bye just before he was about to start on a cruise; and the words were certainly
prophetic. Mr. Gladstone married when he was thirty. His wife was one of the two sisters of
Sir Stephen Glynne. The English aristocracy contains a great many sets, and the Glynnes were
in the intellectual set, comprising such men as the dukes of Argyll and Devonshire, and Lords
Derby, Stanhope and Lyttelton. Mrs. Gladstone and her sister were married on the same day to
two of the finest intellects of their time. The younger, whose mental gifts were far superior
to those of her sister, married Lord Lyttelton.

Mr. Gladstone has a large family. The eldest son has for some time been in Parliament, but
has established no reputation for notable capacity, and it is said that, with the exception
of one of his younger brothers, none of the family are remarkable in this respect. Mrs. Gladstone
is a person of great kindness of heart and untiring benevolence. She is full of schemes for
doing good: hospitals, convalescent institutions, etc. find in her an ever-ready friend, to
the neglect, it is whispered, of her domestic duties. There is an amusing story told of how
some time ago a few guests arrived at her house in response to an invitation to dinner. They
waited in vain for the rest of the party, for whose delay their hostess was at a loss to account.
At length she turned aside and opened her blotting-book, which quickly revealed the cause of
the guests' non-appearance--the invitations were lying there. They had been written, but never
sent.

In London the prime minister--who has an indifferent official residence, which he and his family
have occasionally occupied, in Downing street--lives in Carlton-House Terrace. It is a beautiful
house, but not by any means well adapted for party-giving, for it is so constructed that circulation
is almost impossible. If you once get into a room, you must stay there; whereas half the charm
of Lady Palmerston's famous parties at Cambridge House was the free circulation the rooms afforded,
enabling you to pass right round a quadrangle, and thus easily find an acquaintance or get
away from a bore. Mr. Gladstone's house has a fine double staircase, and it will derive interest
in after days from the circumstance that, standing at the head, Lord Russell took leave of
the party he had led, and pointed to his then host as his successor.

Carlton-House Terrace is in many respects the most delightful situation in London, for, whilst
extremely central, it is very quiet. It stands between Pall Mall and St. James's Park. One
side faces a strip of beautifully kept garden, which lies between the terrace and the row of
palaces formed by the Senior United Service, Athenaeum, Travelers' and Carlton Clubs. The other
side has a charming prospect over St. James's Park. In summer this is really lovely, for all
ugly objects are obscured by the foliage, amid which glimpses are obtained of the pinnacles
and fretted towers of the palace of Parliament on the one hand, and those of its venerable
neighbor, the majestic abbey, on the other. It was here that Bunsen passed his London days,
and the reader of his memoirs will remember frequent references to the charms of his house.
It may well be imagined how great a boon it is to the toil-worn minister to find himself, as
it were, in a garden, with only the distant roar, like that of the sea, to remind him as he
sits in his study that five minutes walk across that pleasant park will bring him to Downing
street, and three more to the Treasury bench in the House of Commons.

In the country most of his time is spent at Hawarden Castle in Flintshire, about six hours
from London. This is the ancestral seat of Mrs. Gladstone's brother, Sir Stephen Glynne, lord
lieutenant of the county, whose family have held this property for centuries. Sir Stephen is
a very shy man of retired habits. By a family arrangement his house is the country abode of
his sister and brother-in-law.

In earlier life, Sir Stephen and his two brothers-in-law, Mr. Gladstone and Lord Lyttelton,
formed an unfortunately favorable estimate of certain mines, into which much of the fortune
of Sir Stephen and his sisters went, and from which it never came out again. There was one
other brother, the late rector of Hawarden. He died about a year ago, and Mr. Gladstone's second
son, Stephen, was appointed his successor. The living, in the gift of Sir Stephen, is very
valuable. Mr. Glynne, the clergyman, died without a son, and the title will therefore on Sir
Stephen's death be extinct. As matters now stand, it may be presumed that Mr. W.H. Gladstone,
the prime minister's eldest son, will succeed to the Hawarden estates.

Mr. Gladstone has himself recently increased the family interest around Hawarden by purchase.
About five years ago the state of his finances were the talk of the town, and a number of people,
especially of the Conservative party, avowed themselves in a position to assert from personal
knowledge that he was ruined. There was no just ground for such a statement, and like so many
other absurd rumors it died out. None of Mr. Gladstone's daughters are married, nor is his
eldest son.

WHITSUNTIDE AMONG THE MENNISTS.

Certain great festivals of the Christian Church which were ignored by the Puritans and Quakers
have always continued in high repute among the Pennsylvania Germans. Christmas, Easter, Whitsuntide
and Ascension Day are celebrated not only in the Lutheran, the Reformed or Calvinistic and
the Moravian churches, but among the descendants of those Swiss Anabaptists who, being driven
from their homes by religious persecution, finally took shelter in that part of the land of
Penn now called Lancaster county, these quiet sectarians being known among us by the names
of Mennists and Amish (pronounced Menneests and Ommish).

The movable feast of Whitsunday or Pentecost, which occurs on the seventh Sunday after Easter,
is a solemn occasion in the Mennonite meetings, for at this time is held one of the great semi-annual
observances of bread-breaking and feet-washing. The ensuing day, Whitmonday, is a great secular
festival. All the spring bonnets are then in readiness for the "Dutch" girls. The young farmer
of eighteen or more, whose father has granted his heart's desire in the form of a buggy, or
who has otherwise attained to that summit of rural felicity, harnesses and attaches to it one
of the horses with which the farm is so well supplied, and takes his girl into the county-town.
Here they walk the streets, partake of simple refreshments, meet their acquaintances or talk
with them in the tavern parlor. Sometimes they visit a circus or menagerie whose managers have
made a timely visit to our inland city.

On the ensuing day, Tuesday, while the Dutch boys are working the corn, you may perchance hear
their father's voice raised to a higher pitch than usual, which circumstance he explains when
he comes in sight, thus: "The boys is sleepy to-day. Yesterday was Whissuntide, you know. They
got home late." For custom forbids their leaving the girl of their choice before the small
hours, and allows them, nevertheless, no remission from labor on the succeeding day.

The people, however, whose religious services I am about to describe impose upon their members
a stricter rule of earlier hours, etc. They are called New (or Reformed) Mennists.

It was on Whitsunday, May 31, 1868, that I paid a visit to one of our New Mennist meeting-houses,
and found before nine o'clock in the morning that the services had already begun. The first
apartment we entered was a sort of tiring-room, where along the walls hung the shawls and black
sun-bonnets of the sisters. Here were also traveling-bags, and a cradle stood ready to receive
one or more of the babies that were in attendance. In the adjoining room were heard the familiar
notes of "Old Hundred," and "Du bist der Weg" was sung pleasantly without any instrumental
accompaniment.

When we entered the whitewashed apartment in which the meeting had assembled I saw upon a small
platform at the farther end five men, who were apparently preachers or elders. At the same
end of the room were seated the soberly clad members of the sect--the men on one side of the
apartment, with their broad-brimmed hats removed; on the other side the sisters, with their
extremely plain book-muslin caps and otherwise sober attire.

A portion of the services was in English. Dr. ----, a practitioner of medicine and a bishop
in this Church, spoke extemporaneously in our language. He gave a long account of the ordinances
of the Jewish Church, and then of those which the "Lord Jesus instituted in the place of these--the
baptism that was celebrated a week ago, and this Lord's Supper, this feet-washing, this kiss
of peace, this manner of visiting offenders;" the last phrase being an allusion to the severe
rule which forbids the New or Reformed Mennists to eat, etc. with those excommunicated by the
society.

The Mennists, as I understand, hold in general those doctrines that are considered evangelical.
The services were much prolonged, and the congregation became restless. But at length, while
a younger brother was speaking in "Dutch" or German, there came in another bearing a parcel
wrapped in a white cloth. He was followed by one carrying something tied in a blue-and-white
cloth, which being opened disclosed a demijohn. The white parcel was received by the preacher
upon the desk, and when opened showed a great loaf of our beautiful Lancaster county bread
divided into slices. After prayer several preachers took slices, and passing around among the
congregation broke off bits which they gave to the communicants. The wine in the demijohn was
then poured into small, bright tin cups, like milkmen's measures, and was distributed among
the members. A hymn in the German language was sung, two lines at a time, while the wine was
handed round.

After these services were concluded feet-washing began by reading the passage from the 13th
chapter of John on the subject, and this was followed by many remarks. I observed that one
elderly brother, speaking in a mournful tone and in our Dutch manner, quoted, "Nimmermehr soll
du mein Fees wasche" ("Thou shalt never wash my feet"). These discourses were followed by the
announcement, "Next Sunday there will be bread-breaking at Landisville."

Now arose a confusion from carrying out benches, from arranging others in two long rows facing
each other, etc. The two principal preachers were seen disencumbered of their coats, much animated
conversation began, and feet-washing did not seem to be observed with so much seriousness as
the Supper. I took a seat near the end of two long benches which were arranged to face each
other, and on which sat some of the brethren whose feet were to be washed by one of the preachers.
Common unpainted tubs containing water were brought in by two men. Dr. ----, the bishop already
mentioned, had a great piece of white linen tied around his waist. He passed along between
the two rows of men as they sat facing each other, bearing his tub alternately from a brother
in one row to one in the other, so that both rows were finished at about the same time. Quietly
the men took off their shoes and stockings. They did not put their feet forward much. As Dr.
---- came to each participant he set his tub down before him, washed his feet a little, wiped
them on the long white apron or towel, then shook hands with him and kissed him. He thus ministered
to thirty persons, a somewhat laborious undertaking, but his powerful frame was suited to the
exertion. The same water and the same towel served for all.

Meantime, the sisters, in another part of the room, were arranged in smaller companies on benches
placed in a similar manner. I said to a sister, "Do the preachers wash the sisters' feet?"

"Oh no," she answered: "the sisters does it."

Some of the sisters were very friendly, and not unwilling to converse. One said, "One sister
washes as many as she is pretty well able: it's hard on the back."

"And does she have a towel?" said I.

"She girds a towel, and then she washes and wipes them, and gives them a kiss."

"Do you all have your feet washed?" I inquired further.

"No, not those that have any weakness that prevents."

"And will all these brothers have their feet washed?"

"All that communes."

"And do not all commune?"

"Yes, without they feel that they have something against another. Now if I feel that I have
something against her--placing her hand upon a sister.

"I understand," interrupted I. "'If thou bring thy gift to the altar--' And how many," I continued,
"will there be in such a meeting as this that will not commune? Will there be half a dozen?"

"Oh yes; but by another year all will likely be right, and then they will commune. Now, I did
not commune nor have my feet washed."

"Why not?" said I.

"Why, I felt at this time such confusion of mind, as if the Enemy was against me--"

"Well, it was not anything against a brother or sister?"

"No, I count them all ahead of me: I count myself the poorest member."

At the conclusion of the feet-washing a hymn was sung. Among those who had their feet washed
was a young man apparently about twenty-two, and who looked full of fun. It seems that even
such may be in membership with so strict a sect. It was about one o'clock when the meeting
ended, having been in session four hours and a half.

The great simplicity of the surroundings on this occasion may lead the reader to suppose that
the congregation was poor. It was, however, composed in a great measure of some of the thriftiest
farmers in one of the richest upland sections of the United States.

Some time after attending this meeting I called upon an aged Amish man to converse with him
upon their religious society, etc. The Amish are another branch of the Mennonites, and those
among us are likewise descendants of Swiss refugees. They are the most primitive of the three
divisions of the sect, preserving the use of the Dutch or German language not only in their
religious meetings, but almost entirely in their own families.

I mentioned to this aged man the feet-washing that I had attended, and told how Dr. ----, the
bishop, had washed the feet of the other brethren.

"Did he wash them all?" said my Amish acquaintance.

"Yes, all that were assigned to him. How is it among you?"

"They wash each other's, every two and two. If he washes them all, he puts himself in Christ's
place. He says, 'Wash each other's feet.'"

This, I am also informed, is the rule among the third division, the Old Mennists, the most
numerous branch of these remarkable people.

P.E.G.

THE RAW AMERICAN.

London at present abounds in Americans on their way to the Vienna Exposition. Many of them
are commissioners from various States. Some have lands to sell or other financial axes to grind.
Of such the Langham Hotel is full. The Langham is the nearest approach to an American hotel
in London. There, though not a guest, you may pass in and out without explaining to the hall-porter
who you are, what you are, where you come from or what you want: you may there enter and retire
without giving your pedigree, naturalization papers or a certificate of good character. At
other English hotels something analogous to this is commonly required.

We, who have been in England a full year, look down with an air of superiority on the raw,
the newly-arrived American. We are quite English. We have worn out our American clothes. We
have on English hats with tightly-curled rims and English stub-toed boots. We know the intricacies
of London street navigation, and Islington, Blackfriars, Camden Town, Hackney, the "Surrey
Side," Piccadilly, Regent and Oxford streets, the Strand and Fleet street, are all mapped out
distinctly in our mind's eye. We are skilled in English money, and no longer pass off half
crowns for two-shilling pieces. We are real Anglo-Americans.

But the raw American, only arrived a week, is in a maze, a confusion, a hurry. He is excited
and mystified. He tries to appear cool and unconcerned, and is simply ridiculous. His cards,
bearing his name, title and official status, he distributes as freely as doth the winter wind
the snow-flakes. Inquire at the Langham office for Mr. Smith, and you find he has blossomed
into General Smith.

He is always partaking or about to partake of official dinners. He feels that the eyes of all
England are upon him. He is dressed à la bandbox--hat immaculate in its pristine gloss, white
cravat, umbrella of the slimmest encased in silken wrapper. A speck of mud on his boots would
tarnish the national honor. Commonly, he is taken for a head-butler. He drinks much stout.
He eats a whitebait dinner before being forty-eight hours in London, and tells of it. All this
makes him feel English.

You meet him. He is overjoyed. He would talk of everything--your mutual experience in America,
his sensations and impressions since arriving in England. He talks intelligibly of nothing.
His brain is a mere rag-bag, shreddy, confused, parti-colored. Thus he empties it: "Passage
over rough;" "London wonderful;" "Dined with the earl of ---- yesterday;" "Dine with Sir ----
to-day;" "To the Tower;" "Westminster;" "New York growing;" "Saint Paul's"--going, going, gone!
and he shakes hands with you, and is off at a Broadway gait straight toward the East End of
London for his hotel, which lies at the West End.

In reality, the man is not in his right mind. He is undergoing the mental acclimatization fever.
Should he stay in London for three months, he might recover and begin to find out where he
is. But six months hence he will have returned to America, fancying he has seen London, Paris,
Rome, Geneva, Vienna, and whatever other places his body has been hurried through, not his
mind; for that, in the excitement and rapidity of his flight, has streamed behind him like
the tail of a comet, light, attenuated, vapory, catching nothing, absorbing nothing.

Occasionally this fever takes an abusive phase. He finds in England nothing to like, nothing
to admire. Sometimes he wishes immediately to revolutionize the government. He is incensed
at the cost of royalty. He sees on every side indications of political upheaval. Or he becomes
culinarily disgusted. Because there are no buckwheat cakes, no codfish cakes, no hot bread,
no pork and beans, no mammoth oysters, stewed, fried and roasted, he can find nothing fit to
eat. The English cannot cook. Because he can find no noisy, clattering, dish-smashing restaurant,
full of acrobatic waiters racing and balancing under immense piles of plates, and shouting
jargon untranslatable, unintelligible and unpronounceable down into the lower kitchen, he cannot,
cannot eat.

PRENTICE MULFORD.

FAREWELL.

The occasion commemorated in the following verses--one of those festive meetings with which
tender-hearted Philadelphians are wont to brace themselves up for sorrowful partings--called
forth expressions of deep regret and cordial good wishes, in which many of our readers, we
doubt not, will readily join:

  If from my quivering lips in vain
    The faltering accents strove to flow,
  It was because my heart's deep pain
    Bade tears be swift and utterance slow;
  For in that moment rose the ghosts
    Of pleasant hours in bygone years;
  And your kind faces, O my hosts!
    Showed blurred and dimly through my tears.

  I could not tell you of the pride
    That thrilled me in that parting hour:
  Grief held command all undenied,
    And only o'er my speech had power.
  I found no words to tell the thoughts
    That strove for utterance in my brain:
  With gratitude my soul was fraught,
    And yet I only spoke of pain.

  O friends! 'tis you, and such as you,
    That make this parting hard to bear!
  Pass all things else my past life knew:
    I scarcely heed--I do not care.
  I lose in you the dearest part
    Of pleasant time that here now ends:
  Hand parts from hand, not heart from heart,
    And I must leave you, O my friends!

  What can the future's fairest hours
    Bring me to recompense for these?
  Acquaintances spring like the flowers--
    Friends are slow growth, like forest trees.
  Come hope or gladness, what there will--
    Days bright as sunshine after rain--
  The past gave life's best blessings still:
    We'll find no friends like these again.

  I leave you in the dear old home
    That once was mine--now mine no more:
  Henceforth a stranger I must come
    To haunts so well beloved of yore;
  Yet if your faces turn to mine
    The kindly smile I'm wont to see,
  Not all, not all I must resign--
    My lost home's light still shines for me!

  Whatever chance or change be mine
    In other climes, 'neath foreign skies,
  Your love, your kindness, I shall hold
    Dearest amid dear memories.
  O eyes grown dim with falling tears!
    O lips where Sorrow lays her spell!
  The saddest task of all life's years
    Is yours--to look and say farewell!

  LUCY H. HOOPER.
  AUGUSTIN'S, April 7, 1873.

NOTES.

Between the careers of Cavour and Thiers no sound parallel can easily be traced, but in their
characters--or rather in their diplomatic methods and arts--there would seem to be some curious
and almost ludicrous points of resemblance, if we may accept as true a sketch of the great
Italian statesman made by M. Plattel, the author of "Causeries Franco-Italiennes," fifteen
years ago. M. Plattel, who wrote from close personal observation, at that time described Count
Cavour as being physically "M. Thiers magnified;" or, if you prefer, M. Thiers is the count
viewed through the big end of an opera-glass. The count, says M. Plattel, "has the spectacles,
and even a similar expression of finesse. When things take a serious turn, the count puts both
hands in his pockets; and if you see him do that, expect to hear this threat: 'If you do not
pass this bill, signori deputati, I consider you incapable of longer managing the affairs of
the country: I have the honor of bidding you good-evening.' For (and this is a strange peculiarity)
this first minister is never steadier than when in danger of falling; and his grand oratorical,
or rather ministerial, figure of speech is to seize his hat and his cane, whereupon the chamber
rises and begs M. de Cavour to sit down. M. de Cavour lets them plead a while, and then--he
sits down again! Reading his speeches now in Paris, I can fancy the count with his hat by his
side and his hand on the door-knob. Heaven knows how many times that comedy-proverb of Musset
called 'A door must either be open or shut,' has been gravely played by the Sardinian Parliament
and the prime minister!" It is with a very droll effect that a French paper has revived this
curious description, à propos of the perpetual repetition of the drama played by the French
Assembly and the French president, in which the constant threats of resignation on the one
hand are invariably followed by passionate and despairing entreaties to "stay" on the other.
It is the old story of Cavour and the door-knob over again; and even the great Bismarck, by
the way, does not disdain a resort occasionally to the same terrible pantomime. "The only coup
d'état to be feared from M. Thiers," said M. Dufaure in the Assembly, "is his withdrawal."
It is, the quarreling and reconciliation of Horace and Lydia: "What if the door of the repudiated
Lydia again open to me?" "Though you are stormier than blustering Adriatic, I should love to
live with you," etc. Such is the billing and cooing, after quarrel, between the president and
the Assembly. Still, it is clear that the puissant hat-and-cane argument must date back to Cavour.

       *       *       *       *       *

The recent proposition of some English writers to elevate a certain class of suicides to the
rank of a legalized "institution," under the pleasant name of "euthanasia," suggests the inquiry
whether, without any scientific vindication of the practice, there will not always be suicides
enough in ordinary society. At any rate, however it may be in England, just across the Channel,
in France, thousands of people every year break the "canon 'gainst self-slaughter," leaving
the ills they have to "fly to others that they know not of." The official figures show that
in a period of twenty-two years no less than 71,207 persons committed suicide in France. Perhaps
the most interesting point in these statistics concerns the means employed for suicide. These
are thus tabulated: Hanging, 24,536; drowning, 23,221; shooting, 10,197; asphyxia by charcoal
fumes (a true Paris appliance), 5587; various cutting instruments, 2871; plunging or jumping
from an elevated place (an astonishing number), 2841; poison, 1500; sundry other methods, 454.
Hanging and drowning are thus accountable for more than half the French suicides. The little
stove of charcoal suggests itself as a remedy at hand to many a wretch without the means to
buy a pistol or the nerve to use a knife. The cases of voluntary resort to poison are astonishingly
few, but it must be remembered that the foregoing figures only embrace successful suicides,
and antidotes to poison often come in season where the rope or the river would have made quick
and fatal work. La France notes, regarding these statistics, that their details show that men
oftenest use pistols, and women oftenest try poison, in their attempts at suicide. What is
more curious, each man is likely to employ an instrument familiar to him: thus, hunters and
soldiers resort to the pistol, barbers trust the razor, shoemakers use the knife, engravers
the graving-tool, washerwomen poison themselves with potash or Prussian blue; though, of course,
these are only general rules, with a great many exceptions. And in Paris it is said that among
all ranks and professions, and in both sexes, at least half of the suicides are by asphyxiation
with charcoal. Surely in France one hardly needs to preach any doctrine of not patiently suffering
the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. A healthier and more inspiring morality would
be that of the story of the baron of Grogzwig and his adventure with the "Genius of Despair
and Suicide," as narrated in an episode of Nicholas Nickleby; for the stout baron, after thinking
over his purpose of making a voluntary departure from this world, and finding he had no security
of being any the better for going out of it, abandoned the plan, and adopted as a rule in all
cases of melancholy to look at both sides of the question, and to apply a magnifying-glass
to the better one.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Philadelphia, at least, where there is still a respect for age, the tidings will be received
with respectful regret of the death of Nono, a noted pensionary of the Jardin des Plantes in
Paris, at the ripe age of more than a hundred years. To have achieved the celebrity of being
the oldest inmate of that institution was no despicable distinction, but the venerable centenarian
had other claims to honor. A native of the Marquesas Islands, he was brought by Bougainville
in 1776 to the Royal Museum, afterward known as the Jardin des Plantes. It has frequently been
alleged that parrots may live a hundred years: Nono has established the fact by living still
longer. As he thus contributes an illustration to science, so surely he might point a general
moral and adorn a historic tale. If Thackeray could discourse so wisely on "Some Carp at Sans
Souci," the vicissitudes which this veteran Parisian witnessed in the French capital from 1776
to 1873, under two empires, two royal dynasties and three republics, might be worth a rhapsody.
Nono seems to have been a well-preserved old parrot. Magnificent in youth, he attained literally
a green old age, for his plumage was still fresh and thick. Very naturally, he had lost his
houppe, and was almost totally bald. However, his eye was clear and bright enough to have read
the finest print or followed the finest needlework; and it had the narquois, lightly skeptical
look of those who have seen a great deal of life. In short, Nono was a stylish and eminently
respectable old bird. That worthy person, Monsieur Chavreul, who treats the animals of the
Jardin like a father, has stuffed and mounted the illustrious Nono as a testimonial of affection
and respect.

       *       *       *       *       *

The connection between war and botany is, at first, not specially obvious, and yet a very clear
bit of testimony to their relation was disclosed by the siege of Paris. Two naturalists have
published a Florula Obsidionalis, which, as its name partly indicates, is a catalogue of the
accidental flora of the late investment of Paris. They reckon in their list not less than one
hundred and ninety species before unknown to the neighborhood of the French capital, whereof
fifty-eight are leguminous (such as peas, beans, etc.), thirty-four are composite, thirty-two
are plantes grasses, and sixty-six belong to other families. Almost all are to be found chiefly
on the left bank of the Seine, though also discoverable at Neuilly and in the Bois de Boulogne.
Of course, these new-comers are all accounted for as the produce of seeds brought by the German
army. They will gradually die out; and yet some few may remain as permanent conquerors of the
soil, since among the flora of Paris is still reckoned one plant whose seed was brought into
France by some Russian forage-train in 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the impudence, dishonesty, laziness and rapacity of servants at watering-places have long
been familiar subjects of satire, it is just to say a word on the other side in favor of some
extreme Northern resorts. At the White Mountains, for example, the waiters and waitresses are
of a better class than is generally met. Some of the young girls are farmers' daughters, who
go to the hotels to see the fashions and earn a little pocket-money. The colored cook at one
of the great houses teaches dancing during the winters. Not a few are school-teachers, others
students at country academies, who pass their vacation in this way in order to earn enough
to buy text-books or pay the winter's tuition. Many of them are more intelligent and well educated
than some of the shoddies they wait upon. They are usually quicker in movement and of more
retentive memory than the average American waiter; and though each has a great deal to do at
times, yet even during the tremendous moment of dinner they contrive to find a few little intervals
for harmless flirtations in the dining-room. They are for the most part well-mannered too,
and if they talk to you of each other as "this lady" or "that gentleman," what is it more than
some waiters do with far less reason? The New Hampshire villages become versed every summer
in the latest imported fashions, thanks to the quick eyes of the hotel waitresses.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Lars: A Pastoral of Norway. By Bayard Taylor. Boston: Osgood & Co.

Mr. Taylor's muse has of late become very still-faced, decorous and mindful of the art-proprieties.
Cautious is she, and there is perhaps nothing in this pastoral that will cause the grammarian
to wince, or make the censorious rhetorician writhe in his judgment-seat with the sense that
she is committing herself. Not such were the early attributes of the great itinerant's poetry.
When he used to unsling his minstrel harp in the wilds of California or on the sunrise mountains
of the Orient, there were plenty of false notes, plenty of youthful vivacities that overbore
the strings and were heard as a sudden crack, and, withal, a good deal of young frank fire.
Now there is much finish and the least possible suspicion of ennui. But the life-history of
Lars is worth reading. It is a calm procession of pictures, without pretence, except the slight
pretence of classical correctness. The first part, which reflects Norwegian manners in a way
reminding us more or less of the exquisite stories of Bjornsen, tells how two swains of Ulvik,
Lars the hunter and Per the fisher, quarrel for love of Brita, and at a public wrestling decide
the question by a combat, fighting with knives, in Norse fashion, while hooked to each other
at the belt. They strip, à la Heenan and Sayers. Mr. Taylor, who does not often come behind
the occasion when he can get a human figure to describe statue-wise or under a studio light,
is perhaps a trifle too Phidian in bringing out the good looks of his fish-eating gladiators:

                       The low daylight clad
  Their forms with awful fairness, beauty now
  Of life, so warm and ripe and glorious, yet
  So near the beauty terrible of Death.

Lars, the victor, has all the ill-luck. His foe falls lifeless, his sweetheart calls him a
murderer, and he flies from the law. Another scene quickly shows him crossing the broad ocean,
as so many Norwegians and Swedes had crossed before him, and seeking the protection of Swedish
forts on Delaware banks. Long, sad days pass on the ocean,

                      Till shining fisher-sails
  Came, stars of land that rose before the land;

and soon he leaps to shore in New Sweden, only to find that the civilization he seeks has set
like a sinking planet into the abiding enlightenment of another race and creed. Governor Printz's
fortress on Tinicum isle is a ruin of yellow bricks: the wanderer strays up the broad stream

  To where, upon her hill, fair Wilmington
  Looks to the river over marshy weeds.
  He saw the low brick church with stunted tower,
  The portal-arches, ivied now and old,
  And passed the gate: lo! there the ancient stones
  Bore Norland names and dear familiar words!
  It seemed the dead a comfort spake.

The governor is a myth, the Swedes are dead, the Scandinavian tongues have been changed to
English, and an English exactly conformed to King James's translation of the Scriptures. The
first girl he speaks to checks him for addressing her with a civility:

  "Nay," she said, "not lady! call me Ruth."

With the father of this primitive Nausicaa, on Hockessin Farm, the wanderer abides as herdsman.
Soon, under the propaganda of Ruth's soft eyes and the drowsy spell of the Delawarean society,
he joins the peaceful sect amongst which he labors. It is easier, though, to change his plural
pronouns to the scriptural thou and thee of King James's translators than to tame his heroic
Viking blood, swift to boil into wrath at the show of oppression. Such an outburst leads to
a quaint scene of acknowledgment and repentance, where lies

  Up beyond the woods, at crossing-roads,
  The heart of all, the ancient meeting-house.

Lars, prayed over by the brethren, bursts forth in tears and supplications among the worshipers,
and is received into full harmony with them:

  So into joy revolved the doubtful year,
  And, ere it closed, the gentle fold of Friends
  Sheltered another member, even Lars....
  And all the country-side assembled there
  One winter Sabbath, when in snow and sky
  The colors of transfiguration shone,
  Within the meeting-house. There Ruth and Lars
  Together sat upon the women's side;
  And when the peace was perfect, they arose:
  He took her by the hand, and spake these words,
  As ordered: "In the presence of the Lord
  And this assembly, by the hand I take
  Ruth Mendenhall, and promise unto her,
  Divine assistance blessing me, to be
  A loving and a faithful husband, even
  Till death shall separate us." Then spake Ruth
  The like sweet words; and so the twain were one.

It is not often that a liturgy has been translated into metre with less change of its form
and substance.

The imbedding of a raw Northern native in this lap of repose and in this transfiguring matrimonial
alliance is the grand problem of the poem. What will Lars do, now that he is a man of peace
and a Child of Light, with the burden of conscience? In America he is a saint and an apostle.
In Europe he is known but as a proscribed murderer. The later scenes, where Lars, accompanied
by his true and tender wife, meets his old love, his neighbors, and his rival restored to life,
are of a more ambitious character than any that have preceded. The holy principles imbibed
on the shores of Delaware are made to triumph, and Lars, dropping the sharp blade from his
hand in the thronged arena whither he is forced once more, stands first as a laughing-stock,
and then as an apostle, among his old neighbors. It is a position full of moral force, and
we find ourselves--suddenly recovering in a degree from the calm view we had taken of the poem
as a work of art--asking how we should be so sensible of the grandeur of the situation if the
poet by his skill had not brought out its peculiarity.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Lady of the Last Century. By Dr. Doran. London: Bentley.

This is the life of a lady remarkable in herself and in her surroundings. Of every day in her
life she could say, in the words of Horace, "I have lived." "She never had a fool for an acquaintance,"
says her biographer, "nor an idle hour in the sense of idleness." Her father, Mr. Robinson,
who belonged to an eminent family which had been settled about a century at Rokeby, subsequently
the seat of Scott's friend Morritt, in Yorkshire, married when a boy of eighteen a rich young
lady of very superior quality in every respect, and by her had a large family. His wife's mother
married secondly Middleton, the biographer of Cicero, who took a great fancy to her grand-daughter,
Elizabeth Robinson, and paid much attention to her intellectual development. In fact, from
the cradle to the grave she was thrown amongst the erudite and cultivated in a very uncultivated
age. During her girlhood Elizabeth Robinson had every advantage and pleasure which wealthy
and devoted parents could give her, and when twenty-two she married Mr. Edward Montagu, a grandson
of the first earl of Sandwich, and first cousin of the celebrated Lady Mary's husband.

Mrs. Montagu was far more fortunate in her choice than the brilliant daughter of the duke of
Kingston. Her husband was in every way estimable and amiable, and her letters afford ample
evidence how thoroughly she appreciated his character. They had only one child, who died in
infancy, and when Mr. Montagu died he bequeathed to his widow the whole of his property, which
she in turn left to her nephew, who took the name of Montagu and became Lord Rokeby.

A few years after their marriage Mr. Montagu, already affluent, received a great accession
of fortune in the shape of colliery property in the north of England. This enabled his wife
to entertain very liberally, and, in conjunction with her talents and high connections, gave
her a commanding place in society. They took a large house in Hill street, then the extremity
of the West End, which became the resort of that class who, being anxious to put an end to
eternal card-playing and introduce rather more of the intellectual into social intercourse,
received from a chance circumstance the name of "blue-stockings." After her husband's death
a great deal of business devolved on her in the management of his estates, and here she showed
those qualities which are singularly conspicuous in Englishwomen of rank. She went down to
Northumberland, inspected her farms, visited her colliers, and made acquaintance with her tenants.
She seems particularly to have appreciated the people in Yorkshire, and her descriptions of
them recall in no slight degree some of those of the sisters Bronté. Her principal seat was
at Sandleford in Berkshire, where she spent large sums in improvements under the celebrated
landscape-gardener "Capability Brown."

She survived her husband twenty-five years, and about twenty years before her death removed
to a fine house which she had erected in a then new part of London, Portman Square, and which
is still known as Montagu House. But the entertainments there given were, though more splendid,
less notable than in the humbler mansion in Hill street, for Mrs. Montagu herself was getting
into years, and many of those who had been the brightest ornaments of the Hill street parties
were passing away. Mrs. Montagu died in 1800, at the age of seventy. She was of an affectionate
disposition, but had somewhat less sensibility perhaps than most men would like to see in a
woman; yet, on the whole, she played her part in life extremely well, being wise, generous
and true.

The book is particularly interesting for the rich aroma of association around it, and would
have been far more so had Dr. Doran taken the trouble to give a few notes, of which there is
not a single one in the whole book--a serious drawback, more especially to American readers.
New York: Harper & Brothers.

Mr. Cushing has given another proof of the great capacity of some men to do very clever work,
but to fail utterly in giving an adequate account of the work itself or of the way in which
it was done. Trained by long experience in public business, and intimately acquainted by long
residence in Washington with the methods of diplomatic negotiation and interpretation, he was
eminently fitted to be the colleague of Mr. Evarts as counsel for the government before the
Geneva arbitration. Here he undertakes to give an account of the task there brought to a result
so favorable to the United States. Unluckily, he shows that he is always and only an advocate.
Much that may have been useful for his duties in that office is prominent in a disagreeable
way in his recital of the Geneva award. His language is loose and offensive, often without
meaning to be so, but oftener in a way that shows how much he must have been galled by the
lord chief-justice of England. Whatever Sir Alexander Cockburn may have done there, and however
much he may have fallen from his high estate as one of the arbitrators to the less dignified
position of an advocate for English claims, he will have a sweet revenge in seeing the anger
that he has excited in one of the American representatives, now become their spokesman. Mr.
Cushing falls into the blunder that was once so common in our American state papers as to give
good cause for that happy phrase of Nicholas Biddle--"Western Orientalisms." The tone of the
book, which ought to be a simple story, is stilted and rhetorical. The result of all the long
discussions is the best praise of our American statesmen who were its authors, but it is dwarfed
and lessened by the fulsome praise given to the foreign representatives who brought it about.
Of "bad language," in keeping with the bad spirit of the book, the following may serve as specimens:
"Pretensiveness," "frequentation," "annexion," "capitulations" instead of "treaties," "monogram"
for "monograph," "it needs to," "howmuchsoever," "law-books invested with the reflection of
fine scenery," "imposed itself," "I demand of myself," and other such phrases without number.

Once done with Sir Alexander Cockburn and the work at Geneva, Mr. Cushing shows himself and
his country to much better advantage in discussing the "Mixed Commission" now sitting at Washington,
the Northwest Boundary, the Fisheries, and the general provisions of the Washington treaty.
He has, however, simply forestalled the ground for some better writer on the important history
which belongs to that negotiation, and will give the reading and reflecting public, both abroad
and at home, a very unfavorable impression of the great task in which he played so important
a part, and of the qualities of mind and temper he must have brought to it, since at this late
day he finds no better impetus to the work of writing its history than unexplained anger at
one of the members of the board before which Mr. Cushing argued the cause of his country, and
helped to win it.

Books Received.

The Drawing-Room Stage: A Series of Original Dramas, Comedies, Farces, and Entertainments for
Amateur Theatricals and School Exhibitions. By George M. Baker. Illustrated. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

Five Years in an English University. By Charles Astor Bristed, late Foundation Scholar of Trinity
College, Cambridge. Third edition. Revised by the Author. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

Memoirs of Madame Desbordes-Valmore.

Livingstone and his African Explorations: together with a Full Account of the Young, Stanley
and Dawson Search Expeditions. New York: Adams, Victor & Co.

The Mother's Register: Current Notes of the Health of Children. From the French of Professor
J.B. Fonssagrines. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

Thorvaldsen: His Life and Works. By Eugene Plon. Translated from the French by J. M. Luyster.
Illustrated. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Scientific and Industrial Education: its Importance to our Country. By G.B. Stebbins. Detroit:
Daily Post Printing Establishment.

Never Again. By W.S. Mayo, M.D., author of "Kaloolah," "The Berber," etc. New York: G.P. Putnam
& Sons.

The World-Priest. From the German of Leopold Schafer. By Charles T. Brooks. Boston: Roberts
Brothers.

The Cuban Question in the Spanish Parliament. London: Press of the Anglo-American Times.

Treason at Home: A Novel. By Mrs. Greenough. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Myths and Myth-Makers. By John Fiske, M.A., LL.B. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

An Account of the Sphynx at Mount Auburn. Illustrated. Boston: Little, Brown & Co.