ENGLISH SATIRES

With an Introduction by

OLIPHANT SMEATON

London The Gresham Publishing Company 34 Southampton Street Strand

TO THE MEMORY OF

ALEXANDER BALLOCH GROSART D.D., LL.D., F.S.A.

WITH A GRATEFUL SENSE OF ALL IT OWES TO HIS TEACHING THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED BY THE AUTHOR

PREFACE.

In the compilation of this volume my aim has been to furnish a work that would be representative
in character rather than exhaustive. The restrictions of space imposed by the limits of such
a series as this have necessitated the omission of many pieces that readers might expect to
see included. As far as possible, however, the most typical satires of the successive eras
have been selected, so as to throw into relief the special literary characteristics of each,
and to manifest the trend of satiric development during the centuries elapsing between Langland
and Lowell.

Acknowledgment is due, and is gratefully rendered, to Mrs. C.S. Calverley for permission to
print the verses which close this book; and to Messrs. Macmillan & Co. for permission to print
A.H. Clough's "Spectator ab Extra".

To Professor C.H. Herford my warmest thanks are due for his careful revision of the Introduction,
and for many valuable hints which have been adopted in the course of the work; also to Mr.
W. Keith Leask, M.A.(Oxon.), and the librarians of the Edinburgh University and Advocates'
Libraries.

OLIPHANT SMEATON.

CONTENTS.

                                                           Page
INTRODUCTION                                               xiii

WILLIAM LANGLAND
      I. Pilgrimage in Search of Do-well                      1

GEOFFREY CHAUCER II. III. The Monk and the Friar                               6

JOHN LYDGATE
     IV. The London Lackpenny                                10

WILLIAM DUNBAR
      V. The Dance of the Seven Deadly Sins                  14

SIR DAVID LYNDSAY
     VI. Satire on the Syde Taillis--Ane Supplicatioun
         directit to the Kingis Grace--1538                  19

BISHOP JOSEPH HALL
    VII. On Simony                                           22
   VIII. The Domestic Tutor's Position                       23
     IX. The Impecunious Fop                                 24

GEORGE CHAPMAN
      X. An Invective written by Mr. George Chapman
         against Mr. Ben Jonson                              26

JOHN DONNE
     XI. The Character of the Bore                           29

BEN JONSON
    XII. The New Cry                                         34
   XIII. On Don Surly                                        35

SAMUEL BUTLER
    XIV. The Character of Hudibras                           36
     XV. The Character of a Small Poet                       43

ANDREW MARVELL
    XVI. Nostradamus's Prophecy                              45

JOHN CLEIVELAND
   XVII. The Scots Apostasie                                 47

JOHN DRYDEN
  XVIII. Satire on the Dutch                                 49
    XIX. MacFlecknoe                                         50
     XX. Epistle to the Whigs                                57

DANIEL DEFOE
    XXI. Introduction to the True born Englishman            63

THE EARL OF DORSET
   XXII. Satire on a Conceited Playwright                    65

JOHN ARBUTHNOT
  XXIII. Preface to John Bull and his Law suit               66
   XXIV. The History of John Bull                            70
    XXV. Epitaph upon Colonel Chartres                       76

JONATHAN SWIFT
   XXVI. Mrs Frances Harris' Petition                        77
  XXVII. Elegy on Partridge                                  81
 XXVIII. A Meditation upon a Broom stick                     85
   XXIX. The Relations of Booksellers and Authors            86
    XXX. The Epistle Dedicatory to His Royal Highness
         Prince Posterity                                    91

SIR RICHARD STEELE
   XXXI. The Commonwealth of Lunatics                        97

JOSEPH ADDISON
  XXXII. Sir Roger de Coverley's Sunday                     101

EDWARD YOUNG
 XXXIII. To the Right Hon. Mr. Dodington                    105

JOHN GAY
  XXXIV. The Quidnunckis                                    112

ALEXANDER POPE
   XXXV. The Dunciad--The Description of Dulness            114
  XXXVI. Sandys' Ghost; or, a proper new ballad of
         the New Ovid's Metamorphoses, as it was
         intended to be translated by persons of
         quality                                            120
 XXXVII. Satire on the Whig Poets                           122
XXXVIII. Epilogue to the Satires                            131

SAMUEL JOHNSON
  XXXIX. The Vanity of Human Wishes                         136
     XL. Letter to the Earl of Chesterfield                 147

OLIVER GOLDSMITH
    XLI. The Retaliation                                    149
   XLII. The Logicians Refuted                              154
  XLIII. Beau Tibbs, his Character and Family               156

CHARLES CHURCHILL
   XLIV. The Journey                                        160

JUNIUS
    XLV. To the King                                        164

ROBERT BURNS
   XLVI. Address to the Unco Guid, or the Rigidly
         Righteous                                          180
  XLVII. Holy Willie's Prayer                               182

CHARLES LAMB
 XLVIII. A Farewell to Tobacco                              186

THOMAS MOORE
   XLIX. Lines on Leigh Hunt                                191

GEORGE CANNING
      L. Epistle from Lord Boringdon to Lord Granville      192
     LI. Reformation of the Knave of Hearts                 194

POETRY OF THE ANTI JACOBIN
    LII. The Friend of Humanity and the Knife-grinder       203
   LIII. Song by Rogero the Captive                         205

COLERIDGE AND SOUTHEY
    LIV. The Devil's Walk                                   206

SYDNEY SMITH
     LV. The Letters of Peter Plymley--on "No
         Popery"                                            208

JAMES SMITH
    LVI. The Poet of Fashion                                216

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR
   LVII. Bossuet and the Duchess of Fontanges               218

LORD BYRON
  LVIII. The Vision of Judgment                             226
    LIX. The Waltz                                          236
     LX. "The Dedication" in Don Juan                       243

THOMAS HOOD
    LXI. Cockle v. Cackle                                 249

LORD MACAULAY
   LXII. The Country Clergyman's Trip to Cambridge          253

WINTHROP MACKWORTH PRAED
  LXIII. The Red Fisherman; or, The Devil's Decoy           257
   LXIV. Mad--Quite Mad                                     264

BENJAMIN DISRAELI (LORD BEACONSFIELD)
    LXV. Popanilla on Man                                   270

ROBERT BROWNING
   LXVI. Cristina                                           277
  LXVII. The Lost Leader                                    280

WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY
 LXVIII. Piscator and Piscatrix                             281
   LXIX. On a Hundred Years Hence                           283

ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH
    LXX. Spectator Ab Extra                                 292

C.S. CALVERLEY
   LXXI. "Hic Vir, Hic Est"                                 296

INTRODUCTION.

Satire and the satirist have been in evidence in well-nigh all ages of the world's history.
The chief instruments of the satirist's equipment are irony, sarcasm, invective, wit, and humour.
The satiric denunciation of a writer burning with indignation at some social wrong or abuse,
is capable of reaching the very highest level of literature. The writings of a satirist of
this type, and to some extent of every satirist who touches on the social aspects of life,
present a picture more or less vivid, though not of course complete and impartial, of the age
to which he belongs, of the men, their manners, fashions, tastes, and prevalent opinions. Thus
they have a historical as well as a literary and an ethical value. Its position as such, however,
is due rather to the fact of it having been so regarded among the Romans, than from its own
intrinsic importance among us to-day. Until the closing decades of the eighteenth century--so
long, in fact, as the classics were esteemed of paramount authority as models--satire proper
was accorded a definite place in letters, and was distinctively cultivated by men of genius
as a branch of literature. But with the rise of the true national spirit in the various literatures
of Europe, and notably in that of England, satire has gradually given place to other types
of composition. Slowly but surely it has been edged out of its prominent position as a separate
department, and has been relegated to the position of a quality of style, important, beyond
doubt, yet no longer to be considered as a prime division of letters.[2]

Rome rather than Greece must be esteemed the home of ancient satire. Quintilian, indeed, claims
it altogether for his countrymen in the words, Satira tota nostra est; while Horace styles
it Græcis intactum carmen. But this claim must be accepted with many reservations. It does
not imply that we do not discover the existence of satire, together with favourable examples
of it, long anterior to the oldest extant works in either Grecian or Latin literature. The
use of what are called "personalities" in everyday speech was the probable origin of satire.
Conversely, also, satire, in the majority of those earlier types current at various periods
in the history of literature, has shown an inclination to be personal in its character. De
Quincey, accordingly, has argued that the more personal it became in its allusions, the more
it fulfilled its specific function. But such a view is based on the supposition that satire
has no other mission than to lash the vices of our neighbours, without recalling the fact that
the satirist has a reformative as well as a punitive duty to discharge. The further we revert
into the "deep backward and abysm of time" towards the early history of the world, the more
pronounced and overt is this indulgence in broad personal invective and sarcastic strictures.

The earliest cultivators of the art were probably the men with a grievance, or, as Dr. Garnett
says, "the carpers and fault-finders of the clan". Their first attempts were, as has been conjectured,
merely personal lampoons against those they disliked or differed from, and were perhaps of
a type cognate with the Homeric Margites. Homer's character of Thersites is mayhap a lifelike
portrait of some contemporary satirist who made himself dreaded by his personalities. But even
in Thersites we see the germs of transition from merely personal invective to satire directed
against a class; and Greek satire, though on the whole more personal than Roman, achieved brilliant
results. It is enough to name Archilochus, whom Mahaffy terms the Swift of Greek Literature,
Simonides of Amorgos (circ. 660 B.C.), the author of the famous Satire on Women, and Hipponax
of Ephesus, reputed the inventor of the Scazon or halting iambic.

But the lasting significance of Greek satire is mainly derived from its surpassing distinction
in two domains--in the comico-satiric drama of Aristophanes, and in the Beast Fables of 'Æsop'.
In later Greek literature it lost its robustness and became trivial and effeminate through
expending itself on unworthy objects.

It is amongst the Romans, with their deeper ethical convictions and more powerful social sense,
that we must look for the true home of ancient satire. The germ of Roman satire is undoubtedly
to be found in the rude Fescennine verses, the rough and licentious jests and buffoonery of
the harvest-home and the vintage thrown into quasi-lyrical form. These songs gradually developed
a concomitant form of dialogue styled saturæ, a term denoting "miscellany", and derived perhaps
from the Satura lanx, a charger filled with the first-fruits of the year's produce, which was
offered to Bacchus and Ceres.[3] In Ennius, the "father of Roman satire", and Varro, the word
still retained this old Roman sense.

Lucilius was the first Roman writer who made "censorious criticism" the prevailing tone of
satire, and his work, the parent of the satire of Horace, of Persius, of Juvenal, and through
that of the poetical satire of modern times, was the principal agent in fixing its present
polemical and urban associations upon a term originally steeped in the savour of rustic revelry.
In the hands of Horace, Roman satire was to be moulded into a new type that was not only to
be a thing of beauty, but, as far as one can yet see, to remain a joy for ever. The great Venusian,
as he informs us, set before himself the task of adapting the satire of Lucilius to the special
circumstances, the manners, the literary modes and tastes of the Augustan age. Horace's Satires
conform to Addison's great rule, which he lays down in the Spectator, that the satire which
only seeks to wound is as dangerous as arrows that fly in the dark. There is always an ethical
undercurrent running beneath the polished raillery and the good-natured satire. His genial
bonhomie prevents him from ever becoming ill-natured in his animadversions.

Of those manifold, kaleidoscopically-varied types of human nature which in the Augustan age
flocked to Rome as the centre of the known world, he was a keen and a close observer. Jealously
he noted the deteriorating influence these foreign elements were exercising on the grand old
Roman character, and some of the bitterest home-thrusts he ever delivered were directed against
this alien invasion.[4] In those brilliant pictures wherewith his satires are replete, Horace
finds a place for all. Sometimes he criticises as a far-off observer, gazing with a sort of
cynical amusement at this human raree-show; at others he speaks as though he himself were in
the very midst of the bustling frivolity of the Roman Vanity Fair, and a sufferer from its
follies. Then his tone seems to deepen into a grave intensity of remonstrance, as he exposes
its hollowness, its heartlessness, and its blindness to the absorbing problems of existence.

After the death of Horace (B.C. 8) no names of note occur in the domain of satire until we
reach that famous trio, contemporary with one another, who adorned the concluding half of the
first century of our era, viz.:--Juvenal, Persius, and Martial. They are severally representative
of distinct modes or types of satire. Juvenal illustrates rhetorical or tragic satire, of which
he is at once the inventor and the most distinguished master--that form of composition, in
other words, which attacks vice, wrongs, or abuses in a high-pitched strain of impassioned,
declamatory eloquence. In this type of satire, evil is designedly painted in exaggerated colours,
that disgust may more readily be aroused by the loathsomeness of the picture. As a natural
consequence, sobriety, moderation, and truth to nature no longer are esteemed so indispensable.
In this style Juvenal has had many imitators, but no superiors. His satires represent the final
development the form underwent in achieving the definite purpose of exposing and chastising
in a systematic manner the entire catalogue of vices, public and private, which were assailing
the welfare of the state. They constitute luridly powerful pictures of a debased and shamelessly
corrupt condition of society. Keen contemptuous ridicule, a sardonic irony that held nothing
in reverence, a caustic sarcasm that burned like an acid, and a vituperative invective that
ransacked the language for phrases of opprobrium--these were the agents enlisted by Juvenal
into the service of purging society of its evil.

Persius, on the other hand, was the philosophic satirist, whose devotion to Stoicism caused
him to see in it a panacea for all the evils which Nero brought on the empire. The shortness
of his life, his studious tastes, and his exceptional moral purity all contributed to keep
him ignorant of that world of evil which, as Professor Sellar has pithily remarked, it is the
business of the satirist to know. Hence he is purely a philosophic or didactic satirist. Only
one of his poems, the first, fulfils the special end of satire by representing any phase whatever
of the life of his time, and pointing its moral.

Finally, Martial exchanged the epic tirade for the epigram as the vehicle of his satire, and
handled this lighter missile with unsurpassed brilliance and verve. Despite his sycophancy
and his fulsome flattery of prospective benefactors, he displays more of the sober moderation
and sane common-sense of Horace than either of his contemporaries. There are few better satirists
of social and literary pretenders either in ancient or modern times. No ancient has more vividly
painted the manners of antiquity. If Juvenal enforces the lesson of that time, and has penetrated
more deeply into the heart of society, Martial has sketched its external aspect with a much
fairer pencil, and from a much more intimate contact with it.

In the first and second centuries of our era two other forms of satire took their rise, viz.:--the
Milesian or "Satiric Tale" of Petronius and Apuleius, and the "Satiric Dialogue" of Lucian.
Both are admirable pictures of their respective periods. The Tales of the two first are conceived
with great force of imagination, and executed with a happy blending of humour, wit, and cynical
irony that suggests Gil Blas or Barry Lyndon. The Supper of Trimalchio, by Petronius, reproduces
with unsparing hand the gluttony and the blatant vice of the Neronic epoch. The Golden Ass
of Apuleius is a clever sketch of contemporary manners in the second century, painting in vivid
colours the reaction that had set in against scepticism, and the general appetite that prevailed
for miracles and magic.

Finally, ancient satire may be said to close with the famous Dialogues of Lucian, which, although
written in Greek, exhibited all the best features of Roman satire. Certainly the ethical purpose
and the reformative element are rather implied than insistently expressed in Lucian; but he
affords in his satiric sketches a capital glimpse of the ludicrous perplexity into which the
pagan mind was plunged when it had lost faith in its mythology, and when a callous indifference
towards the Pantheon left the Roman world literally without a rational creed. As a satire on
the old Hellenic religion nothing could be racier than The Dialogues of the Gods and The Dialogues
of the Dead.

It is impossible in this brief survey to discuss at large the vast chaotic epoch in the history
of satire which lies between the end of the ancient world and the dawn of humanism. For satire,
as a literary genre, belongs to these two. The mediæval world, inexhaustible in its capacity
and relish for abuse, full of rude laughter and drastic humour--prompt, for all its superstition,
to make a jest of the priest, and, for all its chivalry, to catalogue the foibles of women--had
the satirical animus in abundance, and satirical songs, visions, fables, fabliaux, ballads,
epics, in legion, but no definite and recognised school of satire. It is sufficient to name,
as examples of the extraordinary range of the mediæval satiric genius, the farce of Pathelin,
the beast-epic of Renart, the rhymes of Walter Map, and the Inferno of Dante.

Of these satirists before the rise of "satire", mediæval England produced two great examples
in Chaucer and Langland. They typify at the outset the two classes into which Dryden divided
English satirists--the followers of Horace's way and the followers of Juvenal's--the men of
the world, who assail the enemies of common-sense with the weapons of humour and sarcasm; and
the prophets, who assail vice and crime with passionate indignation and invective scorn. Since
Dryden's time neither line has died out, and it is still possible, with all reserves, to recognise
the two strains through the whole course of English literature: the one represented in Chaucer,
Donne, Marvell, Addison, Arbuthnot, Swift, Young, Goldsmith, Canning, Thackeray, and Tennyson;
the others in Langland, Skelton, Lyndsay, Nash, Marston, Dryden, Pope, Churchill, Johnson,
Junius, Burns, and Browning.

Langland was a naïve mediæval Juvenal. The sad-visaged, world-weary dreamer of the Malvern
hills, sorrowing over the vice, the abuses, and the social misery of his time, finding, as
he tells us, no comfort in any of the established institutions of his day, because confronted
with the fraud and falsehood that infected them all, is one of the most pathetic figures in
literature. As Skeat suggests, the object of his great poem was to secure, through the latitude
afforded by allegory, opportunities of describing the life and manners of the poorer classes,
of inveighing against clerical abuses and the rapacity of the friars, of representing the miseries
caused by the great pestilences then prevalent, and by the hasty and ill-advised marriages
consequent thereon; of denouncing lazy workmen and sham beggars, the corruption and bribery
then too common in the law-courts--in a word, to lash all the numerous forms of falsehood,
which are at all times the fit subjects for satire and indignant exposure. Amid many essential
differences, is there not here a striking likeness to the work of the Roman Juvenal? Langland's
satire is not so fiery nor so rhetorically intense as that of his prototype, but it is less
profoundly despairing. He satirizes evil rather by exposing it and contrasting it with good,
than by vehemently denouncing it. The colours of the pictures are sombre, and the gloom is
almost overwhelming, but still it is illumined from time to time with the hope of coming amendment,
when the great reformer Piers the Plowman, by which is typified Christ,[5] should appear, who
was to remedy all abuses and restore the world to a right condition. In this sustaining hope
he differs from Juvenal, the funereal gloom of whose satires is relieved by no gleam of hope
for the future.

Contrast with this the humorous brightness, the laughter, and the light of the surroundings
associated with his great contemporary, Geoffrey Chaucer. His very satire is kindly and quaint,
like that of Horace, rather than bitterly acidulous. He raps his age over the knuckles, it
is true, for its faults and foibles, but the censor's face wears a genial smile. One of his
chief attractions for us lies in his bright objectivity. He never wears his heart on his sleeve
like Langland. He has touches of rare and profound pathos, but these notes of pain are only
like undertones of discord to throw the harmony into stronger relief, only like little cloudlets
momentarily flitting across the golden sunshine of his humour.

We read Chaucer, as we read Horace, from love of his piquant Epicureanism, and the scintillating
satire wherewith he enlivens those matchless pictures of his epoch which he has handed down
to us. Chaucer, as Professor Minto puts it, wrote largely for the court circle. His verses
were first read in tapestried chambers, and to the gracious ear of stately lords and ladies.
It was because he wrote for such an audience that he avoids the introduction of any discordant
element in the shape of the deeper and darker social problems of the time. The same reticence
occurs in Horace, writing as he did for the ear of Augustus and Mæcenas, and of the fashionable
circle thronging the great palace of his patron on the Esquiline. Is not the historic parallel
between the two pairs of writers still further verified? Chaucer wisely chose the epic form
for his greatest poem, because he could introduce thereinto so many distinct qualities of composition,
and the woof of racy humour as well as of sprightly satire which he introduces with such consummate
art into the texture of his verse is of as fine a character as any in our literature. In Langland's
great allegory, the satire is earnest, grave and solemn, as though with a sense of deep responsibility;
that in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales--nay, in all his poems--is genial, laughing, and good-natured;
tolerant, like Horace's of human weaknesses, because the author is so keenly conscious of his own.

Langland and Chaucer both died about the beginning of the fifteenth century. But from that
date until 1576--when Gascoigne's Steel Glass, the first verse satire of the Elizabethan age,
was published--we must look mainly to Scotland and the poems of William Dunbar, Sir David Lyndsay,
and others, to preserve the apostolic succession of satire. William Dunbar is one of the greatest
of British satirists. His Dance of the Seven Deadly Sins, in which the popular poetic form
of the age--allegory--is utilized with remarkable skill as the vehicle for a scathing satire
on the headlong sensuality of his time, produces by its startling realism and terrible intensity
an effect not unlike that exercised by the overpowering creations of Salvator Rosa. The poem
is a bitter indictment of the utter corruption of all classes in the society of his period.
Like Juvenal, to whose school he belongs, he softens nothing, tones down nothing. The evil
is presented in all its native hideousness. Lyndsay, on the other hand, would have been more
vigorous had he been less diffuse, and used the pruning-knife more unsparingly. His finest
satiric pictures often lose their point by verbosity and tediousness. Brevity is the soul of
satire as well as of wit.

The most vigorous English satire of this entire period was that which we owe to the scurrilous
pen of Skelton and the provocative personality of Wolsey. With his work may be mentioned the
rude and unpolished, yet vigorous, piece bearing the rhyming title,

     "Rede me and be nott wrothe,
      For I saye no thing but trothe",

written by two English Observantine Franciscan friars, William Roy and Jerome Barlowe;[6] a
satire which stung the great cardinal so sharply that he commissioned Hermann Rynck to buy
up every available copy. Alexander Barclay's imitation, in his Ship of Fools, of Sebastian
Brandt's Narrenschiff, was only remarkable for the novel satirical device of the plan.

Bishop Latimer in his sermons is a vigorous satirist, particularly in that discourse upon "The
Ploughers" (1547). His fearlessness is very conspicuous, and his attacks on the bishops who
proved untrue to their trust and allowed their dioceses to go to wreck and ruin, are outspoken
and trenchant:

    "They that be lords will ill go to plough. It is no meet office for
    them. It is not seeming for their state. They
    hawke, they hunte, they carde, they dyce, they pastime in their
    prelacies with galaunt gentlemen, with their dauncing minions, and
    with their freshe companions, so that ploughing is set aside."[7]

But after Gascoigne's Steel Glass was published, which professed to hold a mirror or "steel
glass" up to the vices of the age, we reach that wonderful outburst of satiric, epigrammatic,
and humorous composition which was one of the characteristics, and certainly not the least
important, of the Elizabethan epoch. Lodge's Fig for Momus (1593) contains certain satires
which rank with Gascoigne's work as the earliest compositions of that type belonging to the
period. That they were of no mean reputation in their own day is evident from the testimony
of Meres,[8] who says, "As Horace, Lucilius, Juvenal, Persius, and Lucullus are the best for
satire among the Latins, so with us, in the same faculty, these are chiefe, Piers Plowman,
Lodge, Hall of Emanuel College, Cambridge, the author of Pygmalion's Image and Certain Satires[9]
and the author of Skialethea". This contemporary opinion regarding the fact that The Vision
of Piers Plowman was esteemed a satire of outstanding merit in those days, is a curious commentary
on Hall's boastful couplet describing himself as the earliest English satirist.

To name all the writers who, in this fruitful epoch of our literature, devoted themselves to
this kind of composition would be impossible. From 1598 until the death of James I. upwards
of one hundred separate satirists can be named, both in verse and prose. Of these Bishop Hall
is one of the greatest, and I have chosen him as the leading representative of the period.
To the study of Horace and Juvenal he had devoted many years of his early manhood, and his
imitation of these two great Romans is close and consistent. Therefore, for vigour, grave dignity,
and incisiveness of thought, united to graphic pictures of his age, Hall is undeniably the
most important name in the history of the Elizabethan satire, strictly so called. His exposures
of the follies of his age were largely couched in the form, so much affected by Horace, of
a familiar commentary on certain occurrences, addressed apparently to an anonymous correspondent.

Contemporary with Hall was Thomas Nash, whose Pierce Penilesse's Supplication to the Devil
was one of the most extraordinary onslaughts on the social vices of the metropolis that the
period produced. Written in close imitation of Juvenal's earlier satires, he frequently approaches
the standard of his master in graphic power of description, in scathing invective, and ironical
mockery. In Have with you to Saffron Walden he lashed Gabriel Harvey for his unworthy conduct
towards the memory of Robert Greene. Both satires are written in prose, as indeed are nearly
all his works, inasmuch as Nash was more of a pamphleteer than anything else. Other contemporaries
of Hall were Thomas Dekker, whose fame as a dramatist has eclipsed his reputation as a satirist,
but whose Bachelor's Banquet--pleasantly discoursing the variable humours of Women, their quickness
of wits and unsearchable deceits, is a sarcastic impeachment of the gentler sex, while his
Gull's Hornbook must be ranked with Nash's work as one of the most unsparing castigations of
social life in London. The latter is a volume of fictitious maxims for the use of youths desirous
of being considered "pretty fellows". Other contemporaries were John Donne, John Marston, Jonson,
George Chapman, and Nicholas Breton--all names of men who were conspicuous inheritors of the
true Elizabethan spirit, and who united virility of thought to robustness and trenchancy of
sarcasm.

Marston and Breton were amongst the best of the group, though they are not represented in these
pages owing to the unsuitability of their writings for extract. Here is a picture from one
of the satires of Marston which is instinct with satiric power. It is a portrait of a love-sick
swain, and runs as follows:--

     "For when my ears received a fearful sound
      That he was sick, I went, and there I found,
      Him laid of love and newly brought to bed
      Of monstrous folly, and a franticke head:
      His chamber hanged about with elegies,
      With sad complaints of his love's miseries,
      His windows strow'd with sonnets and the glasse
      Drawn full of love-knots. I approach'd the asse,
      And straight he weepes, and sighes some Sonnet out
      To his fair love! and then he goes about,
      For to perfume her rare perfection,
      With some sweet smelling pink epitheton.
      Then with a melting looke he writhes his head,
      And straight in passion, riseth in his bed,
      And having kist his hand, strok'd up his haire,
      Made a French congé, cryes 'O cruall Faire!'
      To th' antique bed-post."[10]

Marston manifests more vigour and nervous force in his satires than Hall, but exhibits less
elegance and ease in versification. In Charles Fitz-geoffrey's Affaniæ, a set of Latin epigrams,
printed at Oxford in 1601, Marston is complimented as the "Second English Satirist", or rather
as dividing the palm of priority and excellence in English satire with Hall. The individual
characteristics of the various leading Elizabethan satirists,--the vitriolic bitterness of
Nash, the sententious profundity of Donne, the happy-go-lucky "slogging" of genial Dekker,
the sledge-hammer blows of Jonson, the turgid malevolence of Chapman, and the stiletto-like
thrusts of George Buchanan are worthy of closer and more detailed study than can be devoted
to them in a sketch such as this. I regret that Nicolas Breton's Pasquil's Madcappe proved
too long for quotation in its entirety,[11] but the man who could pen such lines as these was,
of a truth, a satirist of a high order:--

      But what availes unto the world to talke?
      Wealth is a witch that hath a wicked charme,
      That in the minds of wicked men doth walke,
      Unto the heart and Soule's eternal harme,
      Which is not kept by the Almighty arme:
      O,'tis the strongest instrument of ill
      That ere was known to work the devill's will.

      An honest man is held a good poore soule,
      And kindnesse counted but a weake conceite,
      And love writte up but in the woodcocke's soule,
      While thriving Wat doth but on Wealth await:
      He is a fore horse that goes ever streight:
      And he but held a foole for all his Wit,
      That guides his braines but with a golden bit.

      A virgin is a vertuous kind of creature,
      But doth not coin command Virginitie?
      And beautie hath a strange bewitching feature,
      But gold reads so much world's divinitie,
      As with the Heavens hath no affinitie:
      So that where Beauty doth with vertue dwell,
      If it want money, yet it will not sell.

Of the satiric forms peculiar to the Elizabethan epoch there is no great variety. The Characters
of Theophrastus supplied a model to some of the writers. The close adherence also which the
majority of them manifest to the broadly marked types of "Horatian" and "Juvenalian" satire,
both in matter and manner, is not a little remarkable. The genius for selecting from the classics
those forms both of composition and metre best suited to become vehicles for satire, and adapting
them thereto, did not begin to manifest itself in so pronounced a manner until after the Restoration.
The Elizabethan mind--using the phrase of course in its broad sense as inclusive of the Jacobean
and the early Caroline epochs--was more engrossed with the matter than the manner of satire.
Perhaps the finest satire which distinguished this wonderful era was the Argenis of John Barclay,
a politico-satiric romance, or, in other words, the adaptation of the "Milesian tale" of Petronius
to state affairs.

During the Parliamentary War, satire was the only species of composition which did not suffer
more or less eclipse, but its character underwent change. It became to a large extent a medium
for sectarian bitterness. It lost its catholicity, and degenerated in great measure into the
instrument of partisan antagonism, and a means of impaling the folly or fanaticism, real or
imagined, of special individuals among the Cavaliers and Roundheads.[12] Of such a character
was the bulk of the satires produced at that time. In a few instances, however, a higher note
was struck, as, for example, when "dignified political satire", in the hands of Andrew Marvell,
was utilized to fight the battle of freedom of conscience in the matter of the observances
of external religion. The Rehearsal Transposed, Mr. Smirke, or the Divine in Mode, and his
Political Satires are masterpieces of lofty indignation mingled with grave and ironical banter.
Among many others Edmund Waller showed himself an apt disciple of Horace, and produced charming
social satires marked by delicate wit and raillery in the true Horatian mode; while the Duke
of Buckingham, in the Rehearsal, utilized the dramatic parody to travesty the plays of Dryden.
Abraham Cowley, in the Mistress, also imitated Horace, and in his play Cutter of Coleman Street
satirized the Puritans' affectation of superior sanctity and their affected style of conversation.
Then came John Oldham and John Cleiveland, who both accepted Juvenal as their model. Cleiveland's
antipathy towards Cromwell and the Scots was on a par with that of John Wilkes towards the
latter, and was just as unreasonable, while the language he employed in his diatribes against
both was so extravagant as to lose its sarcastic point in mere vulgar abuse. In like manner
Oldham's Satires on the Jesuits afford as disgraceful a specimen of sectarian bigotry as the
language contains. Only their pungency and wit render them readable. He displays Juvenal's
violence of invective without his other redeeming qualities. All these, however, were entirely
eclipsed in reputation by a writer who made the mock-epic the medium through which the bitterest
onslaught on the anti-royalist party and its principles was delivered by one who, as a "king's
man", was almost as extreme a bigot as those he satirized. The Hudibras of Samuel Butler, in
its mingling of broad, almost extravagant, humour and sneering mockery has no parallel in our
literature. Butler's characters are rather mere "humours" or qualities than real personages.
There is no attempt made to observe the modesty of nature. Hudibras, therefore, is an example
not so much of satire, though satire is present in rich measure also, as of burlesque. The
poem is genuinely satirical only in those parts where the author steps in as the chorus, so
to speak, and offers pithy moralizings on what is taking place in the action of the story.
There is visible throughout the poem, however, a lack of restraint that causes him to overdo
his part. Were Hudibras shorter, the satire would be more effective. Though in parts often
as terse in style as Pope's best work, still the poem is too long, and it undoes the force
of its attack on the Puritans by its exaggeration.

All these writers, even Butler himself, simply prepared the way for the man who is justly regarded
as England's greatest satirist. The epoch of John Dryden has been fittingly styled the "Golden
Age of English Satire".[13] To warrant this description, however, it must be held to include
the writers of the reign of Queen Anne. The Elizabethan period was perhaps richer, numerically
speaking, in representatives of certain types of satirical composition, but the true perfection,
the efflorescence of the long-growing plant, was reached in that era which extended from the
publication of Dryden's Absalom and Achitophel (Part I.) in 1681 to the issue of Pope's Dunciad
in its final form in 1742. During these sixty years appeared the choicest of English satires,
to wit, all Dryden's finest pieces, the Medal, MacFlecknoe, and Absalom and Achitophel, Swift's
Tale of a Tub, and his Miscellanies--among which his best metrical satires appeared; all Defoe's
work, too, as well as Steele's in the Tatler, and Addison's in the Spectator, Arbuthnot's History
of John Bull, Churchill's Rosciad, and finally all Pope's poems, including the famous "Prologue"
as well as the "Epilogue" to the Satires. It is curious to note how the satirical succession
(if the phrase be permitted) is maintained uninterruptedly from Bishop Hall down to the death
of Pope--nay, we may even say down to the age of Byron, to whose epoch one may trace something
like a continuous tradition. Hall did not die until Dryden was twenty-seven years of age. Pope
delighted to record that, when a boy of twelve years of age, he had met "Glorious John", though
the succession could be passed on otherwise through Congreve, one of the most polished of English
satirical writers, whom Dryden complimented as "one whom every muse and grace adorn", while
to him also Pope dedicated his translation of the Iliad.[14] Bolingbroke, furthermore, was
the friend and patron of Pope, while the witty St. John, in turn, was bound by ties of friendship
to Mallet, who passed on the succession to Goldsmith, Sheridan, Ellis, Canning, Moore, and
Byron. Thereafter satire begins to fall upon evil days, and the tradition cannot be so clearly
traced.

But satire, during this "succession", did not remain absolutely the same. She changed her garb
with her epoch. Thus the robust bludgeoning of Dryden and Shadwell, of Defoe, Steele, D'Urfey,
and Tom Brown, gave place to the sardonic ridicule of Swift, the polished raillery of Arbuthnot,
and the double-distilled essence of acidulous sarcasm present in the Satires of Pope. There
is as marked a difference between the Drydenic and the Swiftian types of satire, between that
of Cleiveland and that of Pope, as between the diverse schools known as the "Horatian" and
the "Juvenalian". The cause of this, over and above the effect produced by prolonged study
of these two classical models, was the overwhelming influence exercised on his age by the great
French critic and satirist, Boileau. Difficult indeed it is for us at the present day to understand
the European homage paid to Boileau. As Hannay says, "He was a dignified classic figure supposed
to be the model of fine taste",[15] His word was law in the realm of criticism, and for many
years he was known, not alone in France, but throughout a large portion of Europe, as "The
Lawgiver of Parnassus". Prof. Dowden, referring to his critical authority, remarks:--

    "The genius of Boileau was in a high degree intellectual, animated
    by ideas.
Boileau's Satires were published during 1660-70, and he himself died
in 1711; but, though dead, he still ruled for many a decade to come.
This then was the literary censor to whom English satire of the
post-Drydenic epochs owed so much. Neither Swift nor Pope was ashamed
to confess his literary indebtedness to the great Frenchman; nay,
Dryden himself has confessed his obligations to Boileau, and in his
Discourse on Satire has quoted his authority as absolute. Before
pointing out the differences between the Drydenic and post-Drydenic
satire let us note very briefly the special characteristics of the
former. Apart from the "matter" of his satire, Dryden laid this
department of letters under a mighty obligation through the splendid
service he rendered by the first successful application of the heroic
couplet to satire. Of itself this was a great boon; but his good deeds
as regards the "matter" of satiric composition have entirely obscured
the benefit he conferred on its manner or technical form. Dryden's four
great satires, Absalom and Achitophel, The Medal, MacFlecknoe,
and the Hind and the Panther, each exemplify a distinct and important
type of satire. The first named is the classical instance of the use of
"historic parallels" as applied to the impeachment of the vices or
abuses of any age. With matchless skill the story of Absalom is
employed not merely to typify, but actually to represent, the designs
of Monmouth and his Achitophel--Shaftesbury. The Medal reverts to the
type of the classic satire of the Juvenalian order. It is slightly more
rhetorical in style, and is partly devoted to a bitter invective
against Shaftesbury, partly to an argument as to the unfitness of
republican institutions for England, partly to a satiric address to
the Whigs. The third of the great series, MacFlecknoe, is Dryden's
masterpiece of satiric irony; a purely personal attack upon his rival,
Shadwell, "Crowned King of Dulness, and in all the realms of nonsense
absolute". Finally, the Hind and the Panther represents a new
development of the "satiric fable". Dryden gave to British satire the
impulse towards that final form of development which it received from
the great satirists of the next century. There is little that appears
in Swift, Addison, Arbuthnot, Pope, or even Byron, for which the way
was not prepared by the genius of "Glorious John".

Of the famous group which adorned the reign of Queen Anne, Steele lives above all in his Isaac
Bickerstaff Essays, the vehicle of admirably pithy and trenchant prose satire upon current
political abuses. But, unfortunately for his own fame, his lot was to be associated with the
greatest master of this form of composition that has appeared in literature, and the celebrity
of the greater writer dimmed that of the lesser. Addison in his papers in the Tatler and the
Spectator has brought what may be styled the Essay of Satiric Portraiture--in after days to
be developed along other lines by Praed, Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, and R.L. Stevenson--to an
unsurpassed standard of excellence. Such character studies as those of Sir Roger de Coverley,
his household and friends, Will Honeycomb, Sir Andrew Freeport, Ned Softly, and others, possess
an endless charm for us in the sobriety and moderation of the colours, the truth to nature,
the delicate raillery, and the polished sarcasm of their satiric animadversions. Addison has
studied his Horace to advantage, and to the great Roman's attributes has added other virtues
distinctly English.

Arbuthnot, the celebrated physician of Queen Anne, takes rank among the best of English satirists
by virtue of his famous work The History of John Bull. The special mode or type employed was
the "allegorical political tale", of which the plot was the historic sequence of events in
connection with the war with Louis XIV. of France. The object of the fictitious narrative was
to throw ridicule on the Duke of Marlborough, and to excite among the people a feeling of disgust
at the protracted hostilities. The nations involved are represented as tradesmen implicated
in a lawsuit, the origin of the dispute being traced to their narrow and selfish views. The
national characteristics of each individual are skilfully hit off, and the various events of
the war, with the accompanying political intrigues, are symbolized by the stages in the progress
of the suit, the tricks of the lawyers, and the devices of the principal attorney, Humphrey
Hocus (Marlborough), to prolong the struggle. His Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus--a satire
on the abuses of human learning,--in which the type of the fictitious biography is adopted,
is exceedingly clever.

Finally, we reach the pair of satirists who, next to Dryden, must be regarded as the writers
whose influence has been greatest in determining the character of British satire. Pope is the
disciple of Dryden, and the best qualities of the Drydenic satire, in both form and matter,
are reproduced in his works accompanied by special attributes of his own. Owing to the extravagant
admiration professed by Byron for the author of the Rape of the Lock, and his repeated assurances
of his literary indebtedness to him, we are apt to overlook the fact that the noble lord was
under obligations to Dryden of a character quite as weighty as those he was so ready to acknowledge
to Pope. But the latter, like Shakespeare, so improved all he borrowed that he has in some
instances actually received credit for inventing what he only took from his great master. Pope
was more of a refiner and polisher of telling satiric forms which Dryden had in the first instance
employed, than an original inventor.

To mention all the types of satire affected by this marvellously acute and variously cultured
poet would be a task of some difficulty. There are few amongst the principal forms which he
has not essayed. In spirit he is more pungent and sarcastic, more acidulous and malicious,
than the large-hearted and generous-souled Dryden. Into his satire, therefore, enters a greater
amount of the element of personal dislike and contempt than in the case of the other. While
satire is present more or less in nearly all Pope's verse, there are certain compositions where
it may be said to be the outstanding quality. These are his Satires, among which should of
course be included "The Prologue" and "The Epilogue" to them, as well as the Moral Essays,
and finally the Dunciad. These comprise the best of his professed satires. His Satires and
Epistles of Horace Imitated are just what they claim to be--an adaptation to English scenes,
sympathies, sentiments, and surroundings of the Roman poet's characteristic style. Though Pope
has quite as many points of affinity with Juvenal as with Horace, the adaptation and transference
of the local atmosphere from Tiber to Thames is managed with extraordinary skill. The historic
parallels, too, of the personages in the respective poems are made to accord and harmonize
with the spirit of the time. The Satires are written from the point of view of opposition to
Sir Robert Walpole, the great Whig minister. They display the concentrated essence of bitterness
towards the ministerial policy. As Minto tersely puts it, we see gathered up in them the worst
that was thought and said about the government and court party when men's minds were heated
almost to the point of civil war.[17] In the "Prologue" and the "Epilogue" are contained some
of the most finished satiric portraits drawn by Pope in any of his works. For caustic bitterness,
sustained but polished irony, and merciless sarcastic malice, the characters of Atticus (Addison),
Bufo, and Sporus have never been surpassed in the literature of political or social criticism.[18]

The Dunciad is an instance of the mock-epic utilized for the purposes of satire. Here Pope,
as regards theme, possibly had the idea suggested to him by Dryden's MacFlecknoe, but undoubtedly
the heroic couplet, which the latter had first applied to satire and used with such conspicuous
success, was still further polished and improved by Pope until, as Mr. Courthope says, "it
became in his hands a rapier of perfect flexibility and temper". From the time of Pope until
that of Byron this stately measure has been regarded as the metre best suited par excellence
for the display of satiric point and brilliancy, and as the medium best calculated to confer
dignity on political satire. The Dunciad, while personal malice enters into it, must not be
regarded as, properly speaking, a malicious satire. From a literary censor's point of view
almost every lash Pope administered was richly deserved. In this respect Pope has all Horace's
fairness and moderation, while at the same time he exhibits not a little of Juvenal's depth
of conviction that desperate diseases demand radical remedies.[19]

By the side of Pope stands an impressive but a mournful figure, one of the most tragic in our
literature, to think of whom, as Thackeray says, "is like thinking of the ruin of a great empire".
As an all-round satirist Jonathan Swift has no superior save Dryden, and he only by virtue
of his broader human sympathies. In the works of the great Dean we have many distinct forms
of satire. Scarce anything he wrote, with the exception of his unfortunate History of the Last
Four Years of Queen Anne, but is marked by satiric touches that relieve the tedium of even
its dullest pages. He has utilized nearly all the recognized modes of satiric composition throughout
the range of his long list of works. In the Tale of a Tub he employed the vehicle of the satiric
tale to lash the Dissenters, the Papists, and even the Church of England; in a word, the cant
of religion as well as the pretensions of letters and the shams of the world. In the Battle
of the Books the parody or travesty of the Romances of Chivalry is used to ridicule the controversy
raging between Temple, Wotton, Boyle, and Bentley, regarding the comparative merits of ancient
and modern writers. In Gulliver's Travels the fictitious narrative or mock journal is impressed
into the service, the method consisting in adopting an absurd supposition at the outset and
then gravely deducing the logical effects which follow. These three form the trio of great
prose satires which from the epoch of their publication until now have remained the wonder
and the delight of successive generations. Their realism, humorous invention, ready wit, unsparing
irony, and keen ridicule have exercised as potent an attraction as their gloomy misanthropy
has repelled. Among minor satires are his scathing attacks in prose and verse on the war party
as a ring of Whig stock-jobbers, such as Advice to the October Club, Public Spirit of the Whigs,
&c., the Virtues of Sid Hamet, The Magician's Wand (directed against Godolphin); his Polite
Conversations and Directions to Servants are savage attacks on the inanity of society small-talk
and the greed of the menials of the period. But why prolong the list? From the Drapier's Letters,
directed against a supposed fraudulent introduction of a copper currency known as "Wood's Halfpence",
to his skit on The Furniture of a Woman's Mind, there were few topics current in his day, whether
in politics, theology, economics, or social gossip, which he did not attack with the artillery
of his wit and satire. Had he been less sardonic, had he possessed even a modicum of the bonhomie
of his friend Arbuthnot, Swift's satire would have exercised even more potent an influence
than it has been its fortune to achieve.

Pope died in 1744, Swift in 1745. During their last years there were signs that the literary
modes of the epoch of Queen Anne, which had maintained their ascendency so long, were rapidly
losing their hold on the popular mind. A new literary period was about to open wherein new
literary ideals and new models would prevail. Satire, in common with literature as a whole,
felt the influence of the transitional era. As we have seen, it concerned itself largely with
ridiculing the follies and eccentricities of men of letters and foolish pretenders to the title;
also in lashing social vices and abuses. The political enmity existing between the Jacobites
and the Hanoverians continued to afford occasion for the exchange of party squibs and lampoons.
The lengthened popularity of Gay's Beggars' Opera, a composition wherein a new mode was created,
viz. the satiric opera (the prototype of the comic opera of later days), affords an index to
the temper of the time. It was the age of England's lethargy.

After the defeat of Culloden, satire languished for a while, to revive again during the ministry
of the Earl of Bute, when everything Scots came in for condemnation, and when Smollett and
John Wilkes belaboured each other in the Briton and the North Briton, in pamphlet, pasquinade,
and parody, until at last Lord Bute withdrew from the contest in disgust, and suspended the
organ over which the author of Roderick Random presided. The satirical effusions of this epoch
are almost entirely worthless, the only redeeming feature being the fact that Goldsmith was
at that very moment engaged in throwing off those delicious morceaux of social satire contained
in The Citizen of the World. Johnson, a few years before, had set the fashion for some time
with his two satires written in free imitation of Juvenal--London, and The Vanity of Human
Wishes. But from 1760 onward until the close of the century, when Ellis, Canning, and Frere
opened what may be termed the modern epoch of satire, the influence paramount was that of Goldsmith.
Fielding and Smollett were both satirists of powerful and original stamp, but they were so
much else besides that their influence was lost in that of the genial author of the Deserted
Village and Retaliation. His Vicar of Wakefield is a satire, upon sober, moderate principles,
against the vice of the upper classes, as typified in the character of Mr. Thornhill, while
the sketch of Beau Tibbs in The Citizen of the World is a racy picture of the out-at-elbows,
would-be man of fashion, who seeks to pose as a social leader and arbiter of taste when he
had better have been following a trade.

The next revival of the popularity of satire takes place towards the commencement of the third
last decade of the eighteenth century, when, using the vehicle of the epistolary mode, an anonymous
writer, whose identity is still in dispute, attacked the monarch, the government, and the judicature
of the country, in a series of letters in which scathing invective, merciless ridicule, and
lofty scorn were united to vigour and polish of style, as well as undeniable literary taste.

After the appearance of the Letters of Junius, which, perhaps, have
owed the permanence of their popularity as much to the interest
attaching to the mystery of their authorship as to their intrinsic
merits, political satire may be said to have once more slumbered
awhile. The impression produced by the studied malice of the Letters,
and the epigrammatic suggestiveness which appeared to leave as much
unsaid as was said, was enormous, yet, strangely enough, they were
unable to check the growing influence of the school of satire whereof
Goldsmith was the chief founder, and from which the fashionable jeux
d'esprit, the sparkling persiflage of the society flâneurs of the
nineteenth century are the legitimate descendants.[20] The decade
1768-78, therefore--that decade when the plays of Goldsmith and
Sheridan were appearing,--witnessed the rise and the development of
that genial, humorous raillery, in prose and verse, of personal foibles
and of social abuses, of which the Retaliation and the Beau Tibbs
papers are favourable examples. These were the distinguishing
characteristics of our satiric literature during the closing decade of
the eighteenth century until the horrors of the French Revolution, and
the sympathy with it which was apparently being aroused in England,
called political satire into requisition once more. Party feeling ran
high with regard to the principles enunciated by the so-called "friends
of freedom". The sentiments of the "Constitutional Tories" found
expression in the bitter, sardonic, vitriolic mockery visible in the
pages of the Anti-Jacobin,[21] which did more to check the progress of
nascent Radicalism and the movement in favour of political reform than
any other means employed. Chief-justice Mansfield's strictures and Lord
Braxfield's diatribes alike paled into insignificance beside these
deadly, scorching bombs of Juvenal-like vituperation, which have
remained unapproached in their specific line.
      Well-chosen nurse, his sophist lore,
      He bade thee many a year explore,
      He marked thy progress firm though slow,
      And statesmen, princes, leagued with their inveterate foe.
      Scared at thy frown terrific, fly
      The morals (antiquated brood),
      Domestic virtue, social joy,
      And faith that has for ages stood;
      Swift they disperse and with them go
      The friend sincere, the generous foe--
      Traitors to God, to man avowed,
      By thee now raised aloft, now crushed beneath the crowd."

Space only remains for a single word upon the satire of the nineteenth century. In this category
would be included the Bæviad and the Mæviad by William Gifford (editor of the Anti-Jacobin),
which, though first printed in the closing years of the eighteenth century, were issued in
volume form in 1800. Written as they are in avowed imitation of Juvenal, Persius, and Horace,
they out-Juvenal Juvenal by the violence of the language, besides descending to a depth of
personal scurrility as foreign to the nature of true satire as abuse is alien to wit. They
have long since been consigned to merited oblivion, though in their day, from the useful and
able work done by their author in other fields of literature, they enjoyed no inconsiderable
amount of fame. Their names and their works are well-nigh forgotten.

We now reach the last of the greater satirists that have adorned our literature, one who is
in many respects a worthy peer of Dryden, Swift, and Pope. Lord Byron's fame as a satirist
rests on three great works, each of them illustrative of a distinct type of composition. Other
satires he has written, nay, the satiric quality is present more or less in nearly all he produced;
but The Vision of Judgment, Beppo, and Don Juan are his three masterpieces in this style of
literature. They are wonderful compositions in every sense of the word. The sparkling wit,
the ready raillery, the cutting irony, the biting sarcasm, and the sardonic cynicism which
characterize almost every line of them are united to a brilliancy of imagination, a swiftness
as well as a felicity of thought, and an epigrammatic terseness of phrase which even Byron
himself has equalled nowhere else in his works. The Vision of Judgment is an example in the
first instance of parody, and, in the second, but not by any means so distinctly, of allegory.
Its savage ferocity of sarcasm crucified Southey upon the cross of scornful contempt. Byron
is not as good a metrist as a satirist, and the Ottava rima in his hands sometimes halts a
little; still, the poem is a notable example of a satiric parody written with such distinguished
success in a measure of great technical difficulty.

It is somewhat curious that all three of Byron's great satiric poems should be written in the
same measure. Yet so it is, for the poet, having become enamoured of the metre after reading
Frere's clever satire, Whistlecraft, ever afterwards had a peculiar fondness for it. Both Beppo
and Don Juan are also excellent examples of the metrical "satiric tale". The former, being
the earlier satire of the two, was Byron's first essay in this new type of satiric composition.
His success therein stimulated him to attempt another "tale" which in some respects presents
features that ally it to the mock-epic. Beppo is a perfect storehouse of well-rounded satirical
phrases that cleave to the memory, such as "the deep damnation of his 'bah'" and the description
of the "budding miss",

     "So much alarmed that she is quite alarming,
      All giggle, blush, half pertness and half pout".

Beppo leads up to Don Juan, and it is hard to say which is the cleverer satire of the two.
In both, the wit is so unforced and natural, the fun so sparkling, the banter and the persiflage
so bright and scintillating, that they seem, as Sir Walter Scott said, to be the natural outflow
from the fountain of humour. Byron's earliest satire, English Bards and Scots Reviewers, is
a clever piece of work, but compared with the great trio above-named is a production of his nonage.

Byron was succeeded by Praed, whose social pictures are instinct with the most refined and
polished raillery, with the true Attic salt of wit united to a metrical deftness as graceful
as it was artistic. During Praed's lifetime, Lamb with his inimitable Essays of Elia, Southey,
Barham with the ever-popular Ingoldsby Legends, James and Horace Smith with the Rejected Addresses,
Disraeli, Leigh Hunt, Tom Hood, and Landor had been winning laurels in various branches of
social satire which, consequent upon the influence of Byron and then of his disciple, Praed,
became the current mode. A favourable example of that style is found in Leigh Hunt's Feast
of the Poets and in Edward Fitz-Gerald's Chivalry at a Discount. Other writers of satire in
the earlier decades of the present century were Peacock, who in his novels (Crotchet Castle,
&c.) evolved an original type of satire based upon the Athenian New Comedy. Miss Austen in
her English novels and Miss Edgeworth in her Irish tales employed satire to impeach certain
crying social abuses, as also did Dickens in Oliver Twist and others of his books. Douglas
Jerrold's comedies and sketches are full of titbits of gay and brilliant banter and biting
irony. If Sartor Resartus could be regarded as a satire, as Dr. Garnett says, Carlyle would
be the first of satirists, with his thundering invective, grand rhetoric, indignant scorn,
grim humour, and satiric gloom in denouncing the shams of human society and of human nature.
An admirable American school of satire was founded by Washington Irving, of which Judge Haliburton
(Sam Slick), Paulding, Holmes, Artemus Ward, and Dudley Warner are the chief names.

Since the third and fourth decades of our century, in other words, since the epoch of the Reform
Bill and the Chartist agitation, satire has more and more tended to lose its acid and its venom,
to slough the dark sardonic sarcasm of past days and to don the light sportive garb of the
social humorist and epigrammist. Robustious bludgeoning has gone out of fashion, and in its
place we have the playful satiric wit, sparkling as of well-drawn Moet or Clicquot, of Mortimer
Collins, H.S. Leigh, Arthur Locker and Frederick Locker-Lampson, W.S. Gilbert, Austin Dobson,
Bret Harte, F. Anstey, Dr. Walter C. Smith, and many other graceful and delightful social satirists
whose verses are household words amongst us. From week to week also there appear in the pages
of that trenchant social censor, Punch, and the other high-class comico-satiric journals, many
pieces of genuine and witty social satire. Every year the demand seems increasing, and yet
the supply shows no signs of running dry.

Political satire, in its metrical form, has had from time to time a temporary revival of popularity
in such compositions as James Russell Lowell's inimitable Biglow Papers, as well as in more
recent volumes, of which Mr. Owen Seaman's verse is an example; while are not its prose forms
legion in the pages of our periodical press? It has, however, now lost that vitriolic quality
which made it so scorching and offensively personal. The man who wrote nowadays as did Dryden,
and Junius, and Canning, or, in social satire, as did Peter Pindar and Byron, would be forthwith
ostracized from literary fellowship.

But what more need be said of an introductory character to these selections that are now placed
before the reader? English satire, though perhaps less in evidence to-day as a separate department
in letters, is still as cardinal a quality as ever in the productions of our leading authors.
If satires are no longer in fashion, satire is perennial as an attribute in literature, and
we have every reason to cherish it and welcome it as warmly as of old. The novels of Thackeray,
as I have already said, contain some of the most delicately incisive shafts of satire that
have been barbed by any writer of the present century. "George Eliot", also, though in a less
degree, has shown herself a satirist of much power and pungency, while others of our latter-day
novelists manifest themselves as possessed of a faculty of satire both virile and trenchant.
It is one of the indispensable qualities of a great writer's style, because its quarry is one
of the most widely diffused of existing things on the face of the globe. There is no age without
its folly, no epoch without its faults. So long, therefore, as man and his works are imperfect,
so long shall there be existent among us abuses, social, political, professional, and ecclesiastical,
and so long, too, shall it be the province and the privilege of those who feel themselves called
upon to play the difficult part of censor morum, to prick the bubbles of falsehood, vanity,
and vice with the shafts of ridicule and raillery. Lenient, History of French Satire.]

[Footnote 3: Thomson's Ante-Augustan Latin Poetry.]

[Footnote 4: Cf. Mackail; Paten, Études sur la Poésie latine.]

[Footnote 5: See Skeat's "Langland" in Encyclop. Brit.]

[Footnote 6: See Arber's Reprints for 1868.]

[Footnote 7: Arber's Select Reprints.]

[Footnote 8: Palladis Tamia: Wits Treasury.]

[Footnote 9: This, of course, was Marston.]

[Footnote 10: From the Fifth Satire in The Metamorphosis of Pygmalion's Image and Certain Satyres,
by John Marston. 1598.]

[Footnote 11: Pasquil's Madcappe: Thrown at the Corruption of these Times--1626. Breton, to
be read at all, ought to be studied in the two noble volumes edited by Dr. A.B. Grosart. From
his edition I quote.]

[Footnote 12: English Literature, by Prof. Craik. Hannay's Satires and Satirists.]

[Footnote 13: Life of Dryden, by Sir Walter Scott. Saintsbury's Life of Dryden.]

[Footnote 14: Thackeray's English Humorists. Hannay's Satires and Satirists.]

[Footnote 15: Satire and Satirists, by James Hannay. Lecture III.]

[Footnote 16: Dowden's French Literature.]

[Footnote 17: Minto's Characteristics of English Poets.]

[Footnote 18: Cf. Saintsbury's Life of Dryden.]

[Footnote 19: Cf. Gosse, Eighteenth Century Literature.]

[Footnote 20: Thackeray's English Humorists.]

[Footnote 21: The Poetry of the Anti-Jacobin--Carisbrooke Library, 1890.]

[Footnote 22: The Bæviad and the Mæviad, by W. Gifford, Esq., 1800.]

ENGLISH SATIRES.

WILLIAM LANGLAND.

(1330?-1400?)

I. PILGRIMAGE IN SEARCH OF DO-WELL.

    This opening satire constitutes the whole of the Eighth Passus of
    Piers Plowman's Vision and the First of Do-Wel. The "Dreamer"
    here sets off on a new pilgrimage in search of a person who has not
    appeared in the poem before--Do-Well. The following is the argument
    of the Passus.--"All Piers Plowman's inquiries after Do-Well are
    fruitless. Even the friars to whom he addresses himself give but a
    confused account; and weary with wandering about, the dreamer is
    again overtaken by slumber. Thought now appears to him, and
    recommends him to Wit, who describes to him the residence of
    Do-Well, Do-Bet, Do-Best, and enumerates their companions and
    attendants."

  Thus y-robed in russet · romed I aboute
  Al in a somer seson · for to seke Do-wel;
  And frayned[23] full ofte · of folk that I mette
  If any wight wiste · wher Do-wel was at inne;
  And what man he myghte be · of many man I asked.
  Was nevere wight, as I wente · that me wisse kouthe[24]
  Where this leode lenged,[25] · lasse ne moore.[26]
  Til it bifel on a Friday · two freres I mette
  Maisters of the Menours[27] · men of grete witte.
  I hailsed them hendely,[28] · as I hadde y-lerned.
  And preède them par charité, · er thei passed ferther,
  If thei knew any contree · or costes as thei wente,
  "Where that Do-wel dwelleth · dooth me to witene".
  For thei be men of this moolde · that moost wide walken,
  And knowen contrees and courtes, · and many kynnes places,
  Bothe princes paleises · and povere mennes cotes,[29]
  And Do-wel and Do-yvele · where thei dwelle bothe.
  "Amonges us" quod the Menours, · "that man is dwellynge,
  And evere hath as I hope, · and evere shal herafter."
  "Contra", quod I as a clerc, · and comsed to disputen,
  And seide hem soothly, · "Septies in die cadit justus".
  "Sevene sithes,[30] seeth the book · synneth the rightfulle;
  And who so synneth," I seide, · "dooth yvele, as me thynketh;
  And Do-wel and Do-yvele · mowe noght dwelle togideres.
  Ergo he nis noght alway · among you freres:
  He is outher while ellis where · to wisse the peple."
  "I shal seye thee, my sone" · seide the frere thanne,
  "How seven sithes the sadde man, · on a day synneth;
  By a forbisne"[31] quod the frere, · "I shal thee faire showe.
  Lat brynge a man in a boot, · amydde the brode watre;
  The wynd and the water · and the boot waggyng,
  Maketh the man many a tyme · to falle and to stonde;
  For stonde he never so stif, · he stumbleth if he meve,
  Ac yet is he saaf and sound, · and so hym bihoveth;
  For if he ne arise the rather, · and raughte to the steere,
  The wynd wolde with the water · the boot over throwe;
  And thanne were his lif lost, · thorough lackesse of hymselve[32].
  And thus it falleth," quod the frere, · "by folk here on erthe;
  The water is likned to the world · that wanyeth and wexeth;
  The goodes of this grounde arn like · to the grete wawes,
  That as wyndes and wedres · walketh aboute;
  The boot is likned to oure body · that brotel[33] is of kynde,
  That thorough the fend and the flesshe · and the frele worlde
  Synneth the sadde man · a day seven sithes.
  Ac[34] dedly synne doth he noght, · for Do-wel hym kepeth;
  And that is Charité the champion, · chief help ayein Synne;
  For he strengtheth men to stonde, · and steereth mannes soule,
  And though the body bowe · as boot dooth in the watre,
  Ay is thi soul saaf, · but if thou wole thiselve
  Do a deedly synne, · and drenche so thi soule,
  God wole suffre wel thi sleuthe[35] · if thiself liketh.
  For he yaf thee a yeres-gyve,[36] · to yeme[37] wel thiselve,
  And that is wit and free-wil, · to every wight a porcion,
  To fleynge foweles, · to fisshes and to beastes:
  Ac man hath moost thereof, · and moost is to blame,
  But if he werch wel therwith, · as Do-wel hym techeth."
  "I have no kynde knowyng,"[38] quod I, · "to conceyven alle your wordes:
  Ac if I may lyve and loke, · I shall go lerne bettre."
  "I bikenne thee Christ,"[39] quod he, · "that on cros deyde!"
  And I seide "the same · save you fro myschaunce,
  And gyve you grace on this grounde · goode men to worthe!"[40]
  And thus I wente wide wher · walkyng myn one,[41]
  By a wilderness, · and by a wodes side:
  Blisse of the briddes.[42] · Broughte me a-slepe,
  And under a lynde upon a launde[43] · lened I a stounde[44],
  To lythe the layes · the lovely foweles made,
  Murthe of hire mowthes · made me ther to slepe;
  The merveillouseste metels[45] · mette me[46] thanne
  That ever dremed wight · in worlde, as I wene.
  A muche man, as me thoughte · and like to myselve,
  Cam and called me · by my kynde name.
  "What artow," quod I tho, · "that thow my name knowest."
  "That woost wel," quod he, · "and no wight bettre."
  "Woot I what thou art?" · "Thought," seide he thanne;
  "I have sued[47] thee this seven yeer, · seye[48] thou me no rather."[49]
  "Artow Thought," quod I thoo, · "thow koudest me wisse,
  Where that Do-wel dwelleth, · and do me that to knowe."
  "Do-wel and Do-bet, · and Do-best the thridde," quod he,
  "Arn thre fair vertues, · and ben noght fer to fynde.
  Who so is trewe of his tunge, · and of his two handes,
  And thorugh his labour or thorugh his land, · his liflode wynneth,[50]
  And is trusty of his tailende, · taketh but his owene,
  And is noght dronklewe[51] ne dedeynous,[52] · Do-wel hym folweth.
  Do-bet dooth ryght thus; · ac he dooth much more;
  He is as lowe as a lomb, · and lovelich of speche,
  And helpeth alle men · after that hem nedeth.
  The bagges and the bigirdles, · he hath to-broke hem alle
  That the Erl Avarous · heeld and hise heires.
  Do-best is above bothe, · and bereth a bisshopes crosse,
  Is hoked on that oon ende · to halie men fro helle;
  A pik is on that potente,[53] · to putte a-down the wikked
  That waiten any wikkednesse · Do-wel to tene.[54]
  And Do-wel and Do-bet · amonges hem han ordeyned,
  To crowne oon to be kyng · to rulen hem bothe;
  That if Do-wel or Do-bet · dide ayein Do-best,
  Thanne shal the kyng come · and casten hem in irens,
  And but if Do-best bede[55] for hem, · thei to be there for evere.
  Thus Do-wel and Do-bet, · and Do-best the thridde,
  Crouned oon to the kyng · to kepen hem alle,
  And to rule the reme · by hire thre wittes,
  And noon oother wise, · but as thei thre assented."
  I thonked Thoght tho, · that he me thus taughte.
  "Ac yet savoreth me noght thi seying. · I coveit to lerne
  How Do-wel, Do-bet, and Do-best · doon among the peple."
  "But Wit konne wisse thee," quod Thoght, · "Where tho thre dwelle,
  Ellis woot I noon that kan · that now is alyve."
  Thoght and I thus · thre daies we yeden,[56]
  Disputyng upon Do-wel · day after oother;
  And er we were war, · with Wit gonne we mete.[57]
  He was long and lene, · lik to noon other;
  Was no pride on his apparaille · ne poverte neither;
  Sad of his semblaunt, · and of softe chere,
  I dorste meve no matere · to maken hym to jangle,
  But as I bad Thoght thoo · be mene bitwene,
  And pute forth som purpos · to preven his wittes,
  What was Do-wel fro Do-bet, · and Do-best from hem bothe.
  Thanne Thoght in that tyme · seide these wordes:
  "Where Do-wel, Do-bet, · and Do-best ben in londe,
  Here is Wil wolde wite, · if Wit koude teche him;
  And whether he be man or woman · this man fayn wolde aspie,
  And werchen[58] as thei thre wolde, · thus is his entente"

[Footnote 23: questioned.]

[Footnote 24: could tell me.]

[Footnote 25: Where this man dwelt.]

[Footnote 26: mean or gentle.]

[Footnote 27: of the Minorite order.]

[Footnote 28: I saluted them courteously.]

[Footnote 29: and poor men's cots.]

[Footnote 30: times.]

[Footnote 31: example.]

[Footnote 32: through his own negligence.]

[Footnote 33: weak, unstable.]

[Footnote 34: But.]

[Footnote 35: sloth.]

[Footnote 36: a year's-gift.]

[Footnote 37: to rule, guide, govern.]

[Footnote 38: mother-wit.]

[Footnote 39: I commit thee to Christ.]

[Footnote 40: to become.]

[Footnote 41: by myself.]

[Footnote 42: The charm of the birds.]

[Footnote 43: under a linden-tree on a plain.]

[Footnote 44: a short time.]

[Footnote 45: a most wonderful dream.]

[Footnote 46: I dreamed.]

[Footnote 47: followed.]

[Footnote 48: sawest.]

[Footnote 49: sooner.]

[Footnote 50: gains his livelihood.]

[Footnote 51: drunken.]

[Footnote 52: disdainful.]

[Footnote 53: club staff.]

[Footnote 54: to injure.]

[Footnote 55: pray.]

[Footnote 56: journeyed.]

[Footnote 57: we met Wit.]

[Footnote 58: work.]

GEOFFREY CHAUCER.

(1340?-1400.)

PORTRAITS FROM THE CANTERBURY TALES.

II. AND III. THE MONK AND THE FRIAR.

    The following complete portraits of two of the characters in
    Chaucer's matchless picture of the Canterbury Pilgrims are taken
    from the Prologue to the Canterbury Tales.

  II.

  A monk ther was, a fayre for the maistríe,[59]
  An outrider, that loved venerie;[60]
  A manly man, to ben an abbot able.
  He yaf not of the text a pulled hen,[63]
  That saith, that hunters ben not holy men;
  Ne that a monk, whan he is reckèles,[64]
  Is like to a fish that is waterles;
  That is to say, a monk out of his cloistre.
  This ilkè text held he not worth an oistre.
  And I say his opinion was good.
  What? shulde he studie, and make himselven wood[65]
  Upon a book in cloistre alway to pore,
  Or swinken[66] with his hondès, and laboùre,
  As Austin bit?[67] how shal the world be served?
  Let Austin have his swink to him reserved.

  III.

  A Frere[76] ther was, a wanton and a mery,
  A Limitour,[77] a ful solempnè man.
  In all the ordres foure is none that can
  So muche of daliance and fayre langáge.
  He hadde ymade ful many a mariáge
  Of yongè wimmen, at his owen cost.
  Until[78] his ordre he was a noble post.
  Ful wel beloved, and familier was he
  With frankeleins[79] over all in his contrèe,
  And eke with worthy wimmen of the toun:
  For he had power of confessioun,
  As saide himselfè, more than a curát,
  For of his ordre he was a licenciat.
  Ful swetely herde he confession,
  And plesant was his absolution.
  He was an esy man to give penaunce,
  Ther as he wiste[80] to han[81] a good pitaunce:
  For unto a poure[82] ordre for to give
  Is signè that a man is wel yshrive.[83]
  For if he gaf, he dorstè make avaunt,[84]
  He wistè that a man was repentaunt.
  For many a man so hard is of his herte,
  He may not wepe although him sorè smerte.
  Therfore in stede of weping and praieres,
  Men mote[85] give silver to the pourè freres.
    His tippet was ay farsed[86] ful of knives,
  And pinnès, for to given fayrè wives.
  And certainly he hadde a mery note.
  Wel coude he singe and plaien on a rote.[87]
  Of yeddinges[88] he bar utterly the pris.
  His nekke was white as the flour de lis.
  Therto he strong was as a champioun,
  And knew wel the tavérnes in every toun,
  And every hosteler and tappestere,
  Better than a lazar or a beggestere,
  For unto swiche a worthy man as he
  Accordeth not, as by his facultè,
  To haven[89] with sike lazars acquaintànce.
  It is not honest, it may not avànce,[90]
  As for to delen with no swiche pouràille,[91]
  But all with riche, and sellers of vitàille.
  And over all, ther as profit shuld arise,
  Curteis he was, and lowly of servise.
  Ther nas no man no wher so vertuous.
  He was the beste begger in his hous:
  [And gave a certain fermè[92] for the grant,
  Non of his bretheren came in his haunt.]
  For though a widewe haddè but a shoo,
  (So plesant was his in principio)
  Yet wold he have a ferthing or[93] he went.
  His pourchas was wel better than his rent.[94]
  And rage he coude as it hadde ben a whelp,
  In lovèdayes,[95] ther coude he mochel help.
  For ther he was nat like a cloisterere,
  With thredbare cope, as is a poure scolere,
  But he was like a maister or a pope.
  Of double worsted was his semicope,[96]
  That round was as a belle out of the presse.
  Somwhat he lisped, for his wantonnesse,
  To make his English swete upon his tonge;
  And in his harping, whan that he hadde songe,
  His eyen twinkeled in his hed aright,
  As don the sterrès in a frosty night.
  This worthy limitour was cleped Hubèrd.

[Footnote 59: a fair one for the mastership.]

[Footnote 60: hunting.]

[Footnote 61: dainty.]

[Footnote 62: pass.]

[Footnote 63: did not care a plucked hen for the text.]

[Footnote 64: careless; removed from the restraints of his order and vows.]

[Footnote 65: mad.]

[Footnote 66: toil.]

[Footnote 67: biddeth.]

[Footnote 68: hard rider.]

[Footnote 69: spurring.]

[Footnote 70: wrought on the edge.]

[Footnote 71: a fine kind of fur.]

[Footnote 72: bald.]

[Footnote 73: bright.]

[Footnote 74: Shone like a furnace under a cauldron.]

[Footnote 75: tormented.]

[Footnote 76: Friar.]

[Footnote 77: A friar with a licence to beg within certain limits.]

[Footnote 78: Unto.]

[Footnote 79: country gentlemen.]

[Footnote 80: knew.]

[Footnote 81: have.]

[Footnote 82: poor.]

[Footnote 83: shriven.]

[Footnote 84: durst make a boast.]

[Footnote 85: must.]

[Footnote 86: stuffed.]

[Footnote 87: a stringed instrument.]

[Footnote 88: story telling.]

[Footnote 89: have.]

[Footnote 90: profit.]

[Footnote 91: poor people.]

[Footnote 92: farm. This couplet only appears in the Hengwrt MS. As Mr. Pollard says, it is
probably Chaucer's, but may have been omitted by him as it interrupts the sentence. Cf. Globe
Chaucer.]

[Footnote 93: ere.]

[Footnote 94: The proceeds of his begging exceeded his fixed income.]

[Footnote 95: Days appointed for the amicable settlement of differences.]

[Footnote 96: half cloak.]

JOHN LYDGATE.

(1373?-1460.)

IV. THE LONDON LACKPENNY.

    This is an admirable picture of London life early in the fifteenth
    century. The poem first appeared among Lydgate's fugitive pieces,
    and has been preserved in the Harleian MSS.

  To London once my steps I bent,
  Where truth in no wise should be faint;
  To Westminster-ward I forthwith went,
  To a man of Law to make complaint.
  I said, "For Mary's love, that holy saint,
  Pity the poor that would proceed!"[97]
  But for lack of money, I could not speed.

  And, as I thrust the press among,
  By froward chance my hood was gone;
  Yet for all that I stayed not long
  Till to the King's Bench I was come.
  Before the Judge I kneeled anon
  And prayed him for God's sake take heed.
  But for lack of money, I might not speed.

  Beneath them sat clerks a great rout,[98]
  Which fast did write by one assent;
  There stood up one and cried about
  "Richard, Robert, and John of Kent!"
  I wist not well what this man meant,
  He cried so thickly there indeed.
  But he that lacked money might not speed.

  To the Common Pleas I yode tho,[99]
  There sat one with a silken hood:
  I 'gan him reverence for to do,
  And told my case as well as I could;
  How my goods were defrauded me by falsehood;
  I got not a mum of his mouth for my meed,[100]
  And for lack of money I might not speed.

  Unto the Rolls I gat me from thence,
  Before the clerks of the Chancery;
  Where many I found earning of pence;
  But none at all once regarded me.
  I gave them my plaint upon my knee;
  They liked it well when they had it read;
  But, lacking money, I could not be sped.

  In Westminster Hall I found out one,
  Which went in a long gown of ray;[101]
  I crouched and knelt before him; anon,
  For Mary's love, for help I him pray.
  "I wot not what thou mean'st", 'gan he say;
  To get me thence he did me bid,
  For lack of money I could not speed.

  Then unto London I did me hie,
  Of all the land it beareth the prize;
  "Hot peascodes!" one began to cry;
  "Strawberries ripe!" and "Cherries in the rise!"[104]
  One bade me come near and buy some spice;
  Pepper and saffrone they 'gan me bede;[105]
  But, for lack of money, I might not speed.

  Then hied I me to Billings-gate,
  And one cried, "Ho! go we hence!"
  I prayed a bargeman, for God's sake,
  That he would spare me my expense.
  "Thou 'scap'st not here," quoth he, "under twopence;
  I list not yet bestow any almsdeed."
  Thus, lacking money, I could not speed.

  Then I conveyed me into Kent;
  For of the law would I meddle no more.
  Because no man to me took intent,
  I dight[108] me to do as I did before.
  Now Jesus that in Bethlehem was bore[109],
  Save London and send true lawyers their meed!
  For whoso wants money with them shall not speed.

[Footnote 97: go to law.]

[Footnote 98: crowd.]

[Footnote 99: went then.]

[Footnote 100: reward.]

[Footnote 101: striped stuff.]

[Footnote 102: exchange.]

[Footnote 103: notice.]

[Footnote 104: on the bough.]

[Footnote 105: offer.]

[Footnote 106: approach.]

[Footnote 107: call.]

[Footnote 108: set.]

[Footnote 109: born.]

WILLIAM DUNBAR.

(1460-1520?)

V. THE DANCE OF THE SEVEN DEADLY SINS.

    One of Dunbar's most telling satires, as well as one of the most
    powerful in the language.

  I.

  Of Februar the fiftene nicht
  Full lang before the dayis licht
  I lay intill a trance
  And then I saw baith Heaven and Hell
  Me thocht, amang the fiendis fell
  Mahoun gart cry ane dance
  Of shrews that were never shriven,[110]
  Agains the feast of Fastern's even,[111]
    To mak their observance.
  He bad gallants gae graith a gyis,[112]
  And cast up gamountis[113] in the skies,
    As varlets do in France.

  II.

  Helie harlots on hawtane wise,[114]
  Come in with mony sundry guise,
    But yet leuch never Mahoun,
  While priests come in with bare shaven necks;
  Then all the fiends leuch, and made gecks,
    Black-Belly and Bawsy Brown.[115]

  III.

  Let see, quoth he, now wha begins:
  With that the foul Seven Deadly Sins
    Begoud to leap at anis.
  And first of all in Dance was Pride,
  With hair wyld back, and bonnet on side,
    Like to make vaistie wanis;[116]
  And round about him, as a wheel,
  Hang all in rumples to the heel
    His kethat for the nanis:[117]
  Mony proud trumpour[118] with him trippit;
  Through scalding fire, aye as they skippit
    They girned with hideous granis.[119]

  IV.

  Then Ire came in with sturt and strife;
  His hand was aye upon his knife,
    He brandished like a beir:[120]
  Boasters, braggars, and bargainers,[121]
  After him passit in to pairs,
    All bodin in feir of weir;[122]
  In jacks, and scryppis, and bonnets of steel,
  Their legs were chainit to the heel,[123]
    Frawart was their affeir:[124]
  Some upon other with brands beft,[125]
  Some jaggit others to the heft,
    With knives that sharp could shear.

  VI.

  Next him in Dance came Covetyce,
  Root of all evil, and ground of vice,
    That never could be content:
  Catives, wretches, and ockeraris,[129]
  Hudpikes,[130] hoarders, gatheraris,
    All with that warlock went:
  Out of their throats they shot on other
  Het, molten gold, me thocht, a futher[131]
    As fire-flaucht maist fervent;
  Aye as they toomit them of shot,
  Fiends filled them new up to the throat
    With gold of all kind prent.[132]

  VII.

  Syne Sweirness, at the second bidding,
  Came like a sow out of a midding,
    Full sleepy was his grunyie:[133]
  Mony swear bumbard belly huddroun,[134]
  Mony slut, daw, and sleepy duddroun,
    Him servit aye with sonnyie;[135]
  He drew them furth intill a chain,
  And Belial with a bridle rein
    Ever lashed them on the lunyie:[136]
  In Daunce they were so slaw of feet,
  They gave them in the fire a heat,
    And made them quicker of cunyie.[137]

  VIII.

  Then Lechery, that laithly corpse,
  Came berand like ane baggit horse,[138]
    And Idleness did him lead;
  There was with him ane ugly sort,
  And mony stinking foul tramort,[139]
    That had in sin been dead:
  When they were enterit in the Dance,
  They were full strange of countenance,
    Like torches burning red.

  IX.

[Footnote 110: Mahoun, or the devil, proclaimed a dance of sinners that had not received absolution.]

[Footnote 111: The evening before Lent, usually a festival at the Scottish court.]

[Footnote 112: go prepare a show in character.]

[Footnote 113: gambols.]

[Footnote 114: Holy harlots (hypocrites), in a haughty manner. The term harlot was applied
indiscriminately to both sexes.]

[Footnote 115: Names of spirits, like Robin Goodfellow in England, and Brownie in Scotland.]

[Footnote 116: Pride, with hair artfully put back, and bonnet on side: "vaistie wanis" is now
unintelligible; some interpret the phrase as meaning "wasteful wants", but this seems improbable,
considering the locality or scene of the poem.]

[Footnote 117: His cassock for the nonce or occasion.]

[Footnote 118: a cheat or impostor.]

[Footnote 119: groans.]

[Footnote 120: bear.]

[Footnote 121: Boasters, braggarts, and bullies.]

[Footnote 122: Arrayed in the accoutrements of war.]

[Footnote 123: In coats of armour, and covered with iron network to the heel.]

[Footnote 124: Wild was their aspect.]

[Footnote 125: brands beat.]

[Footnote 126: many strong dissemblers.]

[Footnote 127: With feigned words fair or white.]

[Footnote 128: spreaders of false reports.]

[Footnote 129: usurers.]

[Footnote 130: Misers.]

[Footnote 131: a great quantity.]

[Footnote 132: gold of every coinage.]

[Footnote 133: his grunt.]

[Footnote 134: Many a lazy glutton.]

[Footnote 135: served with care.]

[Footnote 136: loins.]

[Footnote 137: quicker of apprehension.]

[Footnote 138: neighing like an entire horse.]

[Footnote 139: corpse.]

[Footnote 140: grease.]

[Footnote 141: Their reward, or their desire not diminished.]

[Footnote 142: No minstrels without doubt--a compliment to the poetical profession: there were
no gleemen or minstrels in the infernal regions.]

[Footnote 143: letter of right.]

[Footnote 144: Pageant.]

[Footnote 145: By the time he had done shouting the coronach or cry of help, the Highlanders
speaking Erse or Gaelic gathered about him.]

[Footnote 146: croaked like ravens and rooks.]

[Footnote 147: deafened.]

[Footnote 148: smothered.]

SIR DAVID LYNDSAY.

    The specimen of Lyndsay cited below--this satire on long trains--is
    by no means the most favourable that could be desired, but it is
    the only one that lent itself readily to quotation. The archaic
    spelling is slightly modernized.

  Schir! though your Grace has put gret order
  Baith in the Hieland and the Border
  Yet mak I supplicatioun
  Till have some reformatioun
  Of ane small falt, whilk is nocht treason
  Though it be contrarie to reason.
  Because the matter been so vile,
  It may nocht have ane ornate style;
  Wherefore I pray your Excellence
  To hear me with great patience:
  Of stinking weedis maculate
  No man nay mak ane rose-chaplet.

  Wherever they may go it may be seen
  How kirk and causay they soop[149] clean.
  The images into the kirk
  May think of their syde taillis irk;[150]
  For when the weather been maist fair,
  The dust flies highest in the air,
  And all their faces does begarie.
  Gif they could speak, they wald them warie...[151]
  But I have maist into despite
  Poor claggocks[152] clad in raploch-white,
  Whilk has scant twa merks for their fees,
  Will have twa ells beneath their knees.
  Kittock that cleckit[153] was yestreen,
  The morn, will counterfeit the queen:
  And Moorland Meg, that milked the yowes,
  Claggit with clay aboon the hows,[154]
  In barn nor byre she will not bide,
  Without her kirtle tail be syde.
  In burghs, wanton burgess wives
  Wha may have sydest tailis strives,
  Weel borderéd with velvet fine,
  But followand them it is ane pyne:
  In summer, when the streetis dries,
  They raise the dust aboon the skies;
  Nane may gae near them at their ease,
  Without they cover mouth and neese...
  I think maist pane after ane rain,
  To see them tuckit up again;
  Then when they step furth through the street,
  Their fauldings flaps about their feet;
  They waste mair claith, within few years,
  Nor wald cleid fifty score of freirs...
  Of tails I will no more indite,
  For dread some duddron[155] me despite:
  Notwithstanding, I will conclude,
  That of syde tails can come nae gude,
  Sider nor may their ankles hide,
  The remanent proceeds of pride,
  And pride proceeds of the devil,
  Thus alway they proceed of evil.

  Ane other fault, sir, may be seen--
  They hide their face all but the een;
  When gentlemen bid them gude-day,
  Without reverence they slide away...
  Without their faults be soon amended,
  My flyting,[156] sir, shall never be ended;
  But wald your Grace my counsel tak,
  Ane proclamation ye should mak,
  Baith through the land and burrowstouns,[157]
  To shaw their face and cut their gowns.

  Women will say this is nae bourds,[158]
  To write sic vile and filthy words.
  But wald they clenge[159] their filthy tails
  Whilk over the mires and middens trails,
  Then should my writing clengit be;
  None other mends they get of me.

[Footnote 149: sweep.]

[Footnote 150: be annoyed.]

[Footnote 151: curse or cry out.]

[Footnote 152: draggle-tails.]

[Footnote 153: hatched.]

[Footnote 154: houghs.]

[Footnote 155: slut.]

[Footnote 156: scolding, brawling.]

[Footnote 157: burgh towns.]

[Footnote 158: scoffs.]

[Footnote 159: cleanse.]

BISHOP JOSEPH HALL.

(1574-1656.)

VII. ON SIMONY.

    This satire levels a rebuke at the Simoniacal traffic in livings,
    then openly practised by public advertisement affixed to the door
    of St. Paul's. "Si Quis" (if anyone) was the first word of these
    advertisements. Dekker, in the Gull's Hornbook, speaks of the
    "Siquis door of Paules", and in Wroth's Epigrams (1620) we read,
    "A Merry Greek set up a Siquis late". This satire forms the Fifth
    of the Second Book of the Virgidemiarum.

  Saw'st thou ever Siquis patcht on Pauls Church door
  To seek some vacant vicarage before?
  Who wants a churchman that can service say,
  Read fast and fair his monthly homily?
  And wed and bury and make Christen-souls?[160]
  Come to the left-side alley of St. Paules.
  Thou servile fool, why could'st thou not repair
  To buy a benefice at Steeple-Fair?
  There moughtest thou, for but a slendid price,
  Advowson thee with some fat benefice:
  Or if thee list not wait for dead mens shoon,
  Nor pray each morn the incumbents days were doone:
  A thousand patrons thither ready bring,
  Their new-fall'n[161] churches, to the chaffering;
  Stake three years stipend: no man asketh more.
  Go, take possession of the Church porch door,
  And ring thy bells; luck stroken in thy fist
  The parsonage is thine, or ere thou wist.
  Saint Fool's of Gotam[162] mought thy parish be
  For this thy base and servile Simony.

[Footnote 160: baptize.]

[Footnote 161: newly fallen in, through the death of the incumbent.]

[Footnote 162: Referring to Andrew Borde's book, The Merry Tales of the Mad Men of Gotham.]

VIII. THE DOMESTIC TUTOR'S POSITION.

    This satire forms the Sixth of Book II. of the Virgidemiarum, and
    is regarded as one of Bishop Hall's best. See the Return from
    Parnassus and Parrot's Springes for Woodcocks (1613) for
    analogous references to those occurring in this piece.
  All these observed, he could contented be,
  To give five marks and winter livery.

IX. THE IMPECUNIOUS FOP.

    This satire constitutes Satire Seven of Book III. The phrase of
    dining with Duke Humphrey, which is still occasionally heard,
    originated in the following manner:--In the body of old St. Paul's
    was a huge and conspicuous monument of Sir John Beauchamp, buried
    in 1358, son of Guy, and brother of Thomas, Earl of Warwick. This
    by vulgar mistake was called the tomb of Humphrey, Duke of
    Gloucester, who was really buried at St. Alban's. The middle aisle
    of St. Paul's was therefore called "The Duke's Gallery". In
    Dekker's Dead Terme we have the phrase used and a full
    explanation of it given; also in Sam Speed's Legend of His Grace
    Humphrey, Duke of St. Paul's Cathedral Walk (1674).
  Their body to their clothes might shapen be,
  That will their clothës shape to their bodie.

[Footnote 163: long.]

[Footnote 164: the love-locks which were so condemned by the Puritan Prynne. Cf. Lyly's Midas
and Sir John Davies' Epigram 22, In Ciprum.]

GEORGE CHAPMAN.

    This satire was discovered in a "Common-place Book" belonging to
    Chapman, preserved among the Ashmole MSS. in the Bodleian Library,
    Oxford.

  Great, learned, witty Ben, be pleased to light
  The world with that three-forked fire; nor fright
  All us, thy sublearned, with luciferous boast
  That thou art most great, most learn'd, witty most
  Of all the kingdom, nay of all the earth;
  As being a thing betwixt a human birth
  And an infernal; no humanity
  Of the divine soul shewing man in thee.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Though thy play genius hang his broken wings
  Full of sick feathers, and with forced things,
  Imp thy scenes, labour'd and unnatural,
  And nothing good comes with thy thrice-vex'd call,
  Comest thou not yet, nor yet? O no, nor yet;
  Yet are thy learn'd admirers so deep set
  In thy preferment above all that cite
  The sun in challenge for the heat and light
  Of heaven's influences which of you two knew
  And have most power in them; Great Ben, 'tis you.
  Examine him, some truly-judging spirit,
  That pride nor fortune hath to blind his merit,
  He match'd with all book-fires, he ever read
  His dusk poor candle-rents; his own fat head
  With all the learn'd world's, Alexander's flame
  That Cæsar's conquest cow'd, and stript his fame,
  He shames not to give reckoning in with his;
  As if the king pardoning his petulancies
  Should pay his huge loss too in such a score
  As all earth's learned fires he gather'd for.
  What think'st thou, just friend? equall'd not this pride
  All yet that ever Hell or Heaven defied?
  And yet for all this, this club will inflict
  His faultful pain, and him enough convict
  He only reading show'd; learning, nor wit;
  Only Dame Gilian's fire his desk will fit.
  But for his shift by fire to save the loss
  Of his vast learning, this may prove it gross:
  True Muses ever vent breaths mixt with fire
  Which, form'd in numbers, they in flames expire
  Not only flames kindled with their own bless'd breath
  That gave th' unborn life, and eternize death.
  Great Ben, I know that this is in thy hand
  And how thou fix'd in heaven's fix'd star dost stand
  In all men's admirations and command;
  For all that can be scribbled 'gainst the sorter
  Of thy dead repercussions and reporter.
  The kingdom yields not such another man;
  Wonder of men he is; the player can
  And bookseller prove true, if they could know
  Only one drop, that drives in such a flow.
  Are they not learned beasts, the better far
  Their drossy exhalations a star
  Their brainless admirations may render;
  For learning in the wise sort is but lender
  Of men's prime notion's doctrine; their own way
  Of all skills' perceptible forms a key
  Forging to wealth, and honour-soothed sense,
  Never exploring truth or consequence,
  Informing any virtue or good life;
  And therefore Player, Bookseller, or Wife
  Of either, (needing no such curious key)
  All men and things, may know their own rude way.
  Imagination and our appetite
  Forming our speech no easier than they light
  All letterless companions; t' all they know
  Here or hereafter that like earth's sons plough
  All under-worlds and ever downwards grow,
  Nor let your learning think, egregious Ben,
  These letterless companions are not men
  With all the arts and sciences indued,
  If of man's true and worthiest knowledge rude,
  Which is to know and be one complete man,
  And that not all the swelling ocean
  Of arts and sciences, can pour both in:
  If that brave skill then when thou didst begin
  To study letters, thy great wit had plied,
  Freely and only thy disease of pride
  In vulgar praise had never bound thy [hide].

JOHN DONNE.

(1573-1631.)

XI. THE CHARACTER OF THE BORE.

    From Donne's Satires, No. IV.; first published in the quarto
    edition of the "Poems" in 1633. See Dr. Grosart's interesting Essay
    on the Life and Writings of Donne, prefixed to Vol. II. of that
    scholar's excellent edition.

  Well; I may now receive and die. My sin
  Indeed is great, but yet I have been in
  A purgatory, such as fear'd hell is
  A recreation, and scant map of this.
  My mind neither with pride's itch, nor yet hath been
  Poison'd with love to see or to be seen.
  I had no suit there, nor new suit to shew,
  Yet went to court: but as Glare, which did go
  To mass in jest, catch'd, was fain to disburse
  The hundred marks, which is the statute's curse,
  Before he 'scap'd; so't pleas'd my Destiny
  (Guilty of my sin of going) to think me
  As prone to all ill, and of good as forget-
  Ful, as proud, lustful, and as much in debt,
  As vain, as witless, and as false as they
  Which dwell in court, for once going that way,
  Therefore I suffer'd this: Towards me did run
  A thing more strange than on Nile's slime the sun
  E'er bred, or all which into Noah's ark came;
  A thing which would have pos'd Adam to name:
  Stranger than seven antiquaries' studies,
  Than Afric's monsters, Guiana's rarities;
  Stranger than strangers; one who for a Dane
  In the Danes' massacre had sure been slain,
  If he had liv'd then, and without help dies
  When next the 'prentices 'gainst strangers rise;
  One whom the watch at noon lets scarce go by;
  One t' whom th' examining justice sure would cry,
  Sir, by your priesthood, tell me what you are.
  His clothes were strange, though coarse, and black, though bare;
  Sleeveless his jerkin was, and it had been
  Velvet, but 'twas now (so much ground was seen)
  Become tufftaffaty; and our children shall
  See it plain rash a while, then nought at all.
  The thing hath travail'd, and, faith, speaks all tongues,
  And only knoweth what t' all states belongs.
  Made of th' accents and best phrase of all these,
  He speaks one language. If strange meats displease,
  Art can deceive, or hunger force my taste;
  But pedant's motley tongue, soldier's bombast,
  Mountebank's drug-tongue, nor the terms of law,
  Are strong enough preparatives to draw
  Me to hear this, yet I must be content
  With his tongue, in his tongue call'd Compliment;
  In which he can win widows, and pay scores,
  Make men speak treason, cozen subtlest whores,
  Outflatter favourites, or outlie either
  Jovius or Surius, or both together.
  He names me, and comes to me; I whisper, God!
  How have I sinn'd, that thy wrath's furious rod,
  This fellow, chooseth me? He saith, Sir,
  I love your judgment; whom do you prefer
  For the best linguist? and I sillily
  Said, that I thought Calepine's Dictionary.
  Nay, but of men? Most sweet Sir! Beza, then
  Some Jesuits, and two reverend men
  Of our two academies, I nam'd. Here
  He stopt me, and said; Nay, your apostles were
  Good pretty linguists; so Panurgus was,
  Yet a poor gentleman; all these may pass
  By travel. Then, as if he would have sold
  His tongue, he prais'd it, and such wonders told,
  That I was fain to say, If you had liv'd, Sir,
  Time enough to have been interpreter
  To Babel's bricklayers, sure the tower had stood.
  He adds, If of court-life you knew the good,
  You would leave loneness. I said, Not alone
  My loneness is, but Spartan's fashion,
  To teach by painting drunkards, doth not last
  Now; Aretine's pictures have made few chaste;
  No more can princes' courts, though there be few
  Better pictures of vice, teach me virtue.
  He, like to a high-stretch'd lute-string, squeakt, O, Sir!
  'Tis sweet to talk of kings! At Westminster,
  Said I, the man that keeps the Abbey-tombs,
  And for his price doth, with who ever comes,
  Of all our Harrys and our Edwards talk,
  From king to king, and all their kin can walk:
  Your ears shall hear naught but kings; your eyes meet
  Kings only; the way to it is King's street.
  He smack'd, and cry'd, He's base, mechanic coarse;
  So're all our Englishmen in their discourse.
  Are not your Frenchmen neat? Mine, eyes you see,
  I have but one, Sir; look, he follows me.
  Certes, they're neatly cloth'd. I of this mind am,
  Your only wearing is your grogaram.
  Not so, Sir; I have more. Under this pitch
  He would not fly. I chaf'd him; but as itch
  Scratch'd into smart, and as blunt iron ground
  Into an edge, hurts worse; so I (fool!) found
  Crossing hurt me. To fit my sullenness,
  He to another key his style doth dress,
  And asks, What news? I tell him of new plays:
  He takes my hand, and, as a still which stays
  A semibrief 'twixt each drop, he niggardly
  As loth to enrich me, so tells many a lie,
  More than ten Hollensheads, or Halls, or Stows,
  Of trivial household trash he knows. He knows
  When the queen frown'd or smil'd; and he knows what
  A subtile statesman may gather of that:
  He knows who loves whom, and who by poison
  Hastes to an office's reversion;
  He knows who hath sold his land, and now doth beg
  A license old iron, boots, shoes, and egg-
  Shells to transport. Shortly boys shall not play
  At span-counter, or blow-point, but shall play
  Toll to some courtier; and, wiser than us all,
  He knows what lady is not painted. Thus
  He with home-meats cloys me. I belch, spue, spit,
  Look pale and sickly, like a patient, yet
  He thrusts on more; and as he had undertook
  To say Gallo-Belgicus without book,
  Speaks of all states and deeds that have been since
  The Spaniards came to th' loss of Amyens.
  Like a big wife, at sight of loathed meat,
  Ready to travail, so I sigh and sweat
  To hear this makaron[165] talk in vain; for yet,
  Either my humour or his own to fit,
  He, like a privileg'd spy, whom nothing can
  Discredit, libels now 'gainst each great man:
  He names a price for every office paid:
  He saith, Our wars thrive ill, because delay'd;
  That offices are entail'd, and that there are
  Perpetuities of them lasting as far
  As the last day; and that great officers
  Do with the pirates share and Dunkirkers.
  Who wastes in meat, in clothes, in horse, he notes;
  Who loves whores, who boys, and who goats.
  I, more amaz'd than Circe's prisoners, when
  They felt themselves turn beasts, felt myself then
  Becoming traitor, and methought I saw
  One of our giant statues ope his jaw
  To suck me in for hearing him: I found
  That as burnt venomous leachers do grow sound
  By giving others their sores, I might grow
  Guilty, and be free; therefore I did show
  All signs of loathing; but since I am in,
  I must pay mine and my forefathers' sin
  To the last farthing: therefore to my power
  Toughly and stubbornly I bear this cross; but th' hour
  Of mercy now was come: he tries to bring
  Me to pay a fine to 'scape his torturing,
  And says, Sir, can you spare me? I said, Willingly.
  Nay, Sir, can you spare me a crown? Thankfully I
  Gave it as ransom. But as fiddlers still,
  Though they be paid to be gone, yet needs will
  Thrust one more jigg upon you; so did he
  With his long complimented thanks vex me.
  But he is gone, thanks to his needy want,
  And the prerogative of my crown. Scant
  His thanks were ended when I (which did see
  All the court fill'd with such strange things as he)
  Ran from thence with such or more haste than one
  Who fears more actions doth haste from prison.
  At home in wholesome solitariness
  My piteous soul began the wretchedness
  Of suitors at court to mourn, and a trance
  Like his who dreamt he saw hell did advance
  Itself o'er me: such men as he saw there
  I saw at court, and worse, and more. Low fear
  Becomes the guilty, not th' accuser; then
  Shall I, none's slave, of high born or rais'd men
  Fear frowns, and my mistress, Truth! betray thee
  To th' huffing braggart, puft nobility?
  No, no; thou which since yesterday hast been
  Almost about the whole world, hast thou seen,
  O Sun! in all thy journey vanity
  Such as swells the bladder of our court? I
  Think he which made your waxen garden, and
  Transported it from Italy, to stand
  With us at London, flouts our courtiers; for
  Just such gay painted things, which no sap nor
  Taste have in them, ours are!

[Footnote 165: fop, early form of macaroni.]

BEN JONSON.

(1573-1637.)

    These two pieces are taken from Jonson's Epigrams. The first of
    them was exceedingly popular in the poet's own lifetime.

XII. THE NEW CRY.

  Ere cherries ripe, and strawberries be gone;
    Unto the cries of London I'll add one;
  Ripe statesmen, ripe: they grow in ev'ry street;
    At six-and-twenty, ripe. You shall 'em meet,
  And have him yield no favour, but of state.
    Ripe are their ruffs, their cuffs, their beards, their gate,
  And grave as ripe, like mellow as their faces.
    They know the states of Christendom, not the places:
  Yet have they seen the maps, and bought 'em too,
    And understand 'em, as most chapmen do.
  The counsels, projects, practices they know,
    And what each prince doth for intelligence owe,
  And unto whom; they are the almanacks
    For twelve years yet to come, what each state lacks.
  They carry in their pockets Tacitus,
    And the Gazetti, or Gallo-Belgicus:
  And talk reserv'd, lock'd up, and full of fear;
    Nay, ask you how the day goes, in your ear.
  Keep a Star-chamber sentence close twelve days:
    And whisper what a Proclamation says.
  They meet in sixes, and at ev'ry mart,
    Are sure to con the catalogue by heart;
  Or ev'ry day, some one at Rimee's looks,
    Or bills, and there he buys the name of books.
  They all get Porta, for the sundry ways
    To write in cypher, and the several keys,
  To ope the character. They've found the slight
    With juice of lemons, onions, piss, to write;
  To break up seals and close 'em. And they know,
    If the states make peace, how it will go
  With England. All forbidden books they get,
    And of the powder-plot, they will talk yet.
  At naming the French king, their heads they shake,
    And at the Pope, and Spain, slight faces make.
  Or 'gainst the bishops, for the brethren rail
    Much like those brethren; thinking to prevail
  With ignorance on us, as they have done
    On them: and therefore do not only shun
  Others more modest, but contemn us too,
    That know not so much state, wrong, as they do.

XIII. ON DON SURLY.

  Don Surly to aspire the glorious name
    Of a great man, and to be thought the same,
  Makes serious use of all great trade he knows.
    He speaks to men with a rhinocerote's nose,
  Which he thinks great; and so reads verses too:
    And that is done, as he saw great men do.
  He has tympanies of business, in his face,
    And can forget men's names, with a great grace.
  He will both argue, and discourse in oaths,
    Both which are great. And laugh at ill-made clothes;
  That's greater yet: to cry his own up neat.
    He doth, at meals, alone his pheasant eat,
  Which is main greatness. And, at his still board,
    He drinks to no man: that's, too, like a lord.
  He keeps another's wife, which is a spice
    Of solemn greatness. And he dares, at dice,
  Blaspheme God greatly. Or some poor hind beat,
    That breathes in his dog's way: and this is great.
  Nay more, for greatness' sake, he will be one
    May hear my epigrams, but like of none.
  Surly, use other arts, these only can
    Style thee a most great fool, but no great man.

SAMUEL BUTLER.

(1612-1680.)

XIV. THE CHARACTER OF HUDIBRAS.

    This extract is taken from the first canto of Hudibras, and
    contains the complete portrait of the Knight, Butler's aim in the
    presentation of this character being to satirize those fanatics and
    pretenders to religion who flourished during the Commonwealth.
  But here our authors make a doubt,
  Whether he were more wise or stout.
  Some hold the one, and some the other:
  But howsoe'er they make a pother,
  The diff'rence was so small his brain
  Outweigh'd his rage but half a grain;
  Which made some take him for a tool
  That knaves do work with, call'd a fool.
  For 't has been held by many, that
  As Montaigne, playing with his cat,
  Complains she thought him but an ass,
  Much more she would Sir Hudibras,
  (For that the name our valiant Knight
  To all his challenges did write)
  But they're mistaken very much,
  'Tis plain enough he was no such.
  We grant although he had much wit,
  H' was very shy of using it;
  As being loth to wear it out,
  And therefore bore it not about
  Unless on holidays, or so,
  As men their best apparel do.
  Besides, 'tis known he could speak Greek
  As naturally as pigs squeak:
  That Latin was no more difficile,
  Than for a blackbird 'tis to whistle.
  B'ing rich in both, he never scanted
  His bounty unto such as wanted;
  But much of either would afford
  To many that had not one word.
    For rhetoric, he could not ope
  His mouth, but out there flew a trope;
  And when he happened to break off
  I' th' middle of his speech, or cough,
  H' had hard words, ready to show why,
  And tell what rules he did it by:
  Else when with greatest art he spoke,
  You'd think he talk'd like other folk,
  For all a rhetorician's rules
  Teach nothing but to name his tools.
  But, when he pleas'd to show't his speech
  In loftiness of sound was rich;
  A Babylonish dialect,
  Which learned pedants much affect:
  It was a party-coloured dress
  Of patch'd and pye-ball'd languages;
  'Twas English cut on Greek and Latin,
  Like fustian heretofore on satin.
  It had an odd promiscuous tone,
  As if h' had talk'd three parts in one;
  Which made some think when he did gabble,
  Th' had heard three labourers of Babel;
  Or Cerberus himself pronounce
  A leash of languages at once.
  This he as volubly would vent
  As if his stock would ne'er be spent;
  And truly, to support that charge,
  He had supplies as vast as large:
  For he could coin or counterfeit
  New words with little or no wit:
  Words so debas'd and hard, no stone
  Was hard enough to touch them on:
  And when with hasty noise he spoke 'em,
  The ignorant for current took 'em,
  That had the orator who once
  Did fill his mouth with pebble-stones
  When he harangu'd but known his phrase,
  He would have us'd no other ways.
  Beside, he was a shrewd philosopher,
  And had read ev'ry text and gloss over;
  Whate'er the crabbed'st author hath,
  He understood b' implicit faith:
  Whatever sceptic could inquire for,
  For every why he had a wherefore,
  Knew more than forty of them do,
  As far as words and terms could go.
  All which he understood by rote,
  And as occasion serv'd, would quote:
  No matter whether right or wrong,
  They must be either said or sung.
  His notions fitted things so well,
  That which was which he could not tell;
  But oftentimes mistook the one
  For th' other, as great clerks have done.
  He cou'd reduce all things to acts,
  And knew their natures by abstracts;
  Where entity and quiddity,
  The ghosts of defunct bodies, fly;
  Where Truth in persons does appear,
  Like words congeal'd in northern air.
  He could raise scruples dark and nice,
  And after solve 'em in a trice,
  As if divinity had catch'd
  The itch, on purpose to be scratch'd;
  Or, like a mountebank, did wound
  And stab herself with doubts profound,
  Only to show with how small pain
  The sores of faith are cur'd again;
  Although by woful proof we find,
  They always leave a scar behind.
  He knew the seat of paradise,
  Cou'd tell in what degree it lies;
  And, as he was dispos'd could prove it,
  Below the moon, or else above it.
  What Adam dream'd of when his bride
  Came from her closet in his side;
  Whether the devil tempted her
  By a High-Dutch interpreter;
  If either of them had a navel;
  Who first made music malleable;
  Whether the serpent, at the fall,
  Had cloven feet, or none at all;
  All this without a gloss or comment,
  He could unriddle in a moment,
  In proper terms such as men smatter,
  When they throw out and miss the matter.
  Still so perverse and opposite,
  As if they worshipp'd God for spite.
  The self-same thing they will abhor
  One way, and long another for.
  Free-will they one way disavow,
  Another, nothing else allow.

XV. THE CHARACTER OF A SMALL POET.

    From Butler's "Characters", a series of satirical portraits akin to
    those of Theophrastus.

The Small Poet is one that would fain make himself that which nature never meant him; like
a fanatic that inspires himself with his own whimsies. He sets up haberdasher of small poetry,
with a very small stock and no credit. He believes it is invention enough to find out other
men's wit; and whatsoever he lights upon, either in books or company, he makes bold with as
his own. This he puts together so untowardly, that you may perceive his own wit as the rickets,
by the swelling disproportion of the joints. You may know his wit not to be natural, 'tis so
unquiet and troublesome in him: for as those that have money but seldom, are always shaking
their pockets when they have it, so does he, when he thinks he has got something that will
make him appear witty. He is a perpetual talker; and you may know by the freedom of his discourse
that he came lightly by it, as thieves spend freely what they get. He is like an Italian thief,
that never robs but he murders, to prevent discovery; so sure is he to cry down the man from
whom he purloins, that his petty larceny of wit may pass unsuspected. He appears so over-concerned
in all men's wits, as if they were but disparagements of his own; and cries down all they do,
as if they were encroachments upon him. He takes jests from the owners and breaks them, as
justices do false weights, and pots that want measure. When he meets with anything that is
very good, he changes it into small money, like three groats for a shilling, to serve several
occasions. He disclaims study, pretends to take things in motion, and to shoot flying, which
appears to be very true, by his often missing of his mark. As for epithets, he always avoids
those that are near akin to the sense. Such matches are unlawful and not fit to be made by
a Christian poet; and therefore all his care is to choose out such as will serve, like a wooden
leg, to piece out a maimed verse that wants a foot or two, and if they will but rhyme now and
then into the bargain, or run upon a letter, it is a work of supererogation. For similitudes,
he likes the hardest and most obscure best; for as ladies wear black patches to make their
complexions seem fairer than they are, so when an illustration is more obscure than the sense
that went before it, it must of necessity make it appear clearer than it did; for contraries
are best set off with contraries. He has found out a new sort of poetical Georgics--a trick
of sowing wit like clover-grass on barren subjects, which would yield nothing before. This
is very useful for the times, wherein, some men say, there is no room left for new invention.
He will take three grains of wit like the elixir, and, projecting it upon the iron age, turn
it immediately into gold. All the business of mankind has presently vanished, the whole world
has kept holiday; there has been no men but heroes and poets, no women but nymphs and shepherdesses:
trees have borne fritters, and rivers flowed plum-porridge. When he writes, he commonly steers
the sense of his lines by the rhyme that is at the end of them, as butchers do calves by the
tail. For when he has made one line, which is easy enough, and has found out some sturdy hard
word that will but rhyme, he will hammer the sense upon it, like a piece of hot iron upon an
anvil, into what form he pleases. There is no art in the world so rich in terms as poetry;
a whole dictionary is scarce able to contain them; for there is hardly a pond, a sheep-walk,
or a gravel-pit in all Greece, but the ancient name of it is become a term of art in poetry.
By this means, small poets have such a stock of able hard words lying by them, as dryades,
hamadryades, aönides, fauni, nymphæ, sylvani, &c. that signify nothing at all; and such a world
of pedantic terms of the same kind, as may serve to furnish all the new inventions and "thorough
reformations" that can happen between this and Plato's great year.

ANDREW MARVELL.

(1621-1678.)

XVI. NOSTRADAMUS'S PROPHECY.

    From Political Satires and other Pieces. It is curious to note
    how much of the prophecy was actually fulfilled.

  For faults and follies London's doom shall fix,
  And she must sink in flames in "sixty-six";
  Fire-balls shall fly, but few shall see the train,
  As far as from Whitehall to Pudding-Lane;
  To burn the city, which again shall rise,
  Beyond all hopes aspiring to the skies,
  Where vengeance dwells. But there is one thing more
  (Tho' its walls stand) shall bring the city low'r;
  When legislators shall their trust betray,
  Saving their own, shall give the rest away;
  And those false men by th' easy people sent,
  Give taxes to the King by Parliament;
  When barefaced villains shall not blush to cheat
  And chequer doors shall shut up Lombard Street.
  When players come to act the part of queens,
  Within the curtains, and behind the scenes:
  When no man knows in whom to put his trust,
  And e'en to rob the chequer shall be just,
  When declarations, lies and every oath
  Shall be in use at court, but faith and troth.
  When two good kings shall be at Brentford town,
  And when in London there shall not be one:
  When the seat's given to a talking fool,
  Whom wise men laugh at, and whom women rule;
  A minister able only in his tongue
  To make harsh empty speeches two hours long
  When an old Scots Covenanter shall be
  The champion for the English hierarchy:
  When bishops shall lay all religion by,
  And strive by law to establish tyranny,
  When a lean treasurer shall in one year
  Make himself fat, his King and people bare:
  When the English Prince shall Englishmen despise,
  And think French only loyal, Irish wise;
  When wooden shoon shall be the English wear
  And Magna Charta shall no more appear:
  Then the English shall a greater tyrant know,
  Than either Greek or Latin story show:
  Their wives to 's lust exposed, their wealth to 's spoil,
  With groans to fill his treasury they toil;
  But like the Bellides must sigh in vain
  For that still fill'd flows out as fast again;
  Then they with envious eyes shall Belgium see,
  And wish in vain Venetian liberty.
  The frogs too late grown weary of their pain,
  Shall pray to Jove to take him back again.

JOHN CLEIVELAND.

(1613-1658.)

XVII. THE SCOTS APOSTASIE.

    From Poems and Satires, posthumously published in 1662.

  Is't come to this? What shall the cheeks of fame
  Stretch'd with the breath of learned Loudon's name,
  Be flogg'd again? And that great piece of sense,
  As rich in loyalty and eloquence,
  Brought to the test be found a trick of state,
  Like chemist's tinctures, proved adulterate;
  The devil sure such language did achieve,
  To cheat our unforewarned grand-dam Eve,
  As this imposture found out to be sot
  The experienced English to believe a Scot,
  Who reconciled the Covenant's doubtful sense,
  The Commons argument, or the City's pence?
  Or did you doubt persistence in one good,
  Would spoil the fabric of your brotherhood,
  Projected first in such a forge of sin,
  Was fit for the grand devil's hammering?
  Or was't ambition that this damnéd fact
  Should tell the world you know the sins you act?
  The infamy this super-treason brings.
  Blasts more than murders of your sixty kings;
  A crime so black, as being advisedly done,
  Those hold with these no competition.
  Kings only suffered then; in this doth lie
  The assassination of monarchy,
  Beyond this sin no one step can be trod.
  If not to attempt deposing of your God.
  O, were you so engaged, that we might see
  Heav'ns angry lightning 'bout your ears to flee,
  Till you were shrivell'd to dust, and your cold land
  Parch't to a drought beyond the Libyan sand!
  But 'tis reserv'd till Heaven plague you worse;
  The objects of an epidemic curse,
  First, may your brethren, to whose viler ends
  Your power hath bawded, cease to be your friends;
  And prompted by the dictate of their reason;
  And may their jealousies increase and breed
  Till they confine your steps beyond the Tweed.
  In foreign nations may your loathed name be
  A stigmatizing brand of infamy;
  Till forced by general hate you cease to roam
  The world, and for a plague live at home:
  Till you resume your poverty, and be
  Reduced to beg where none can be so free
  To grant: and may your scabby land be all
  Translated to a generall hospital.
  Let not the sun afford one gentle ray,
  To give you comfort of a summer's day;
  But, as a guerdon for your traitorous war,
  Love cherished only by the northern star.
  No stranger deign to visit your rude coast,
  And be, to all but banisht men, as lost.
  And such in heightening of the indiction due
  Let provok'd princes send them all to you.
  Your State a chaos be, where not the law,
  But power, your lives and liberties may give.
  No subject 'mongst you keep a quiet breast
  But each man strive through blood to be the best;
  Till, for those miseries on us you've brought
  By your own sword our just revenge be wrought.
  To sum up all ... let your religion be
  As your allegiance--maskt hypocrisie
  Until when Charles shall be composed in dust
  Perfum'd with epithets of good and just.
  He saved--incenséd Heaven may have forgot--
  To afford one act of mercy to a Scot:
  Unless that Scot deny himself and do
  What's easier far--Renounce his nation too.

JOHN DRYDEN.

(1631-1700.)

XVIII. SATIRE ON THE DUTCH.

    Originally printed in broadside form, being written in the year
    1662. It was bitterly resented by the Dutch.

  As needy gallants, in the scriv'ner's hands,
  Court the rich knaves that gripe their mortgag'd lands;
  The first fat buck of all the season'd sent,
  And keeper takes no fee in compliment;
  The dotage of some Englishmen is such,
  To fawn on those, who ruin them, the Dutch.
  They shall have all, rather than make a war
  With those, who of the same religion are.
  The Straits, the Guinea-trade, the herrings too;
  Nay, to keep friendship, they shall pickle you.
  Some are resolv'd, not to find out the cheat,
  But, cuckold-like, love them that do the feat.
  What injuries soe'er upon us fall,
  Yet still the same religion answers all.
  Religion wheedl'd us to civil war,
  Drew English blood, and Dutchmen's now wou'd spare.
  Be gull'd no longer; for you'll find it true,
  They have no more religion, faith! than you.
  Int'rest's the God they worship in their state,
  And we, I take it, have not much of that.
  Well monarchies may own religion's name,
  But states are atheists in their very frame.
  They share a sin; and such proportions fall,
  That, like a stink, 'tis nothing to them all.
  Think on their rapine, falsehood, cruelty,
  And that what once they were, they still wou'd be.
  To one well-born th' affront is worse and more,
  When he's abus'd and baffl'd by a boor.
  With an ill grace the Dutch their mischiefs do;
  They've both ill nature and ill manners too.
  Well may they boast themselves an ancient nation;
  For they were bred ere manners were in fashion:
  And their new commonwealth has set them free
  Only from honour and civility.
  Venetians do not more uncouthly ride,
  Than did their lubber state mankind bestride.
  Their sway became 'em with as ill a mien,
  As their own paunches swell above their chin.
  Yet is their empire no true growth but humour,
  And only two kings' touch can cure the tumour.
  As Cato did in Africk fruits display;
  Let us before our eyes their Indies lay:
  All loyal English will like him conclude;
  Let Cæsar live, and Carthage be subdu'd.

XIX. MACFLECKNOE.

    This satire was written in reply to a savage poem by the dramatist,
    Thomas Shadwell, entitled "The Medal of John Dayes". Dryden and
    Shadwell had been friends, but the enmity begotten of political
    opposition had separated them. Flecknoe, who gives the name to this
    poem, and of whom Shadwell is treated as the son and heir, was a
    dull poet who had always laid himself open to ridicule. It is not
    known (says W.D. Christie in the Globe Dryden) whether he had
    ever given Dryden offence, but it is certain that his "Epigrams",
    published in 1670, contain some lines addressed to Dryden of a
    complimentary character.
  Some beams of wit on other souls may fall,
  Strike through, and make a lucid interval;
  But Shadwell's genuine night admits no ray,
  His rising fogs prevail upon the day.
  Besides, his goodly fabrick fills the eye,
  And seems design'd for thoughtless majesty:
  Thoughtless as monarch oaks, that shade the plain
  And, spread in solemn state, supinely reign.
  Heywood and Shirley were but types of thee,
  Thou last great prophet of tautology.
  Even I, a dunce of more renown than they,
  Was sent before but to prepare thy way;
  And, coarsely clad in Norwich drugget, came
  To teach the nations in thy greater name.
  My warbling lute, the lute I whilom strung,
  When to King John of Portugal I sung,
  Was but the prelude to that glorious day,
  When thou on silver Thames didst cut thy way,
  With well-tim'd oars before the royal barge.
  Swell'd with the pride of thy celestial charge;
  And big with hymn, commander of an host,
  The like was ne'er in Epsom blankets tost.
  Methinks I see the new Arion fail,
  The lute still trembling underneath thy nail.
  At thy well-sharpened thumb, from shore to shore,
  The trebles squeak with fear, the basses roar:
  Echoes from Pissing-Alley Shadwell call,
  And Shadwell they resound from Aston-Hall.
  About thy boat the little fishes throng
  As at the morning toast, that floats along.
  Sometimes, as prince of thy harmonious band,
  Thou wield'st thy papers in thy threshing hand.
  St. Andre's feet ne'er kept more equal time,
  Not ev'n the feet of thy own Psyche's rime:
  Though they in number as in sense excel;
  So just, so like tautology, they fell,
  That, pale with envy, Singleton forswore
  The lute and sword which he in triumph bore,
  And vow'd he ne'er would act Villerius more."
    Here stopt the good old sire, and wept for joy,
  In silent raptures of the hopeful boy.
  All arguments, but most his plays, persuade,
  That for anointed dulness he was made.
    Close to the walls which fair Augusta bind,
  (The fair Augusta much to fears inclin'd)
  An ancient fabric, rais'd t' inform the sight
  There stood of yore, and Barbican it hight:
  A watch-tower once; but now so fate ordains,
  Of all the pile an empty name remains:
  From its old ruins brothel-houses rise,
  Scenes of lewd loves, and of polluted joys,
  Where their vast courts the mother-strumpets keep,
  And, undisturb'd by watch, in silence sleep.
  Near these a nursery erects its head
  Where queens are form'd, and future heroes bred;
  Where unfledg'd actors learn to laugh and cry,
  Where infant punks their tender voices try,
  And little Maximins the gods defy.
  Here Flecknoe, as a place to fame well known,
  Ambitiously design'd his Shadwell's throne.
  For ancient Dekker prophesy'd long since,
  That in this pile should reign a mighty prince,
  Born for a scourge of wit, and flail of sense:
  To whom true dulness should some Psyches owe,
  But worlds of misers from his pen should flow;
  Humorists and hypocrites it should produce,
  Whole Raymond families, and tribes of Bruce.
    Now Empress Fame had publish'd the renown
  Of Shadwell's coronation through the town.
  Rous'd by report of fame, the nations meet,
  From near Bunhill, and distant Watling-street.
  No Persian carpets spread th' imperial way,
  But scatter'd limbs of mangled Poets lay;
  From dusty shops neglected authors come,
  Martyrs of pies, and reliques of the bum.
  Much Heywood, Shirley, Ogleby there lay,
  But loads of Shadwell almost chok'd the way.
  Bilk'd stationers for yeomen stood prepar'd,
  And Herringman was captain of the guard.
  The hoary prince in majesty appear'd,
  High on a throne of his own labours rear'd.
  At his right hand our young Ascanius sate,
  Rome's other hope, and pillar of the state.
  His brows thick fogs, instead of glories, grace,
  And lambent dulness play'd around his face.
  As Hannibal did to the altars come,
  Swore by his sire a mortal foe to Rome;
  So Shadwell swore, nor should his vow be vain,
  That he till death true dulness would maintain;
  And, in his father's right, and realm's defence,
  Ne'er to have peace with wit, nor truce with sense.
  The king himself the sacred unction made,
  As king by office, and as priest by trade.
  In his sinister hand, instead of ball,
  He plac'd a mighty mug of potent ale;
  Love's kingdom to his right he did convey,
  At once his sceptre, and his rule of sway;
  Whose righteous lore the prince had practis'd young,
  And from whose loins recorded Psyche sprung.
  His temples, last, with poppies were o'erspread
  That nodding seem'd to consecrate his head.
  Just at the point of time, if Fame not lie,
  On his left hand twelve reverend owls did fly.
  So Romulus, 'tis sung, by Tiber's brook,
  Presage of sway from twice six vultures took.
  Th' admiring throng loud acclamations make,
  And omens of his future empire take.
  The sire then shook the honours of his head,
  And from his brows damps of oblivion shed
  Full on the filial dulness: Long he stood,
  Repelling from his breast the raging god:
  At length burst out in this prophetic mood.
    "Heav'ns! bless my son! from Ireland let him reign
  To far Barbadoes on the western main;
  Of his dominion may no end be known,
  And greater than his father's be his throne;
  Beyond Love's kingdom let him stretch his pen!--"
  He paus'd, and all the people cry'd "Amen".
  Then thus continu'd he: "My son, advance
  Still in new impudence, new ignorance.
  Success let others teach, learn thou from me
  Pangs without birth, and fruitless industry.
  Let Virtuosos in five years be writ;
  Yet not one thought accuse thy toil of wit.
  Let gentle George in triumph tread the stage,
  Make Dorimant betray, and Loveit rage;
  Let Cully, Cockwood, Fopling, charm the pit,
  And in their folly show the writer's wit.
  Yet still thy fools shall stand in thy defence,
  And justify their authors' want of sense.
  Let 'em be all by thy own model made
  Of dulness, and desire no foreign aid;
  That they to future ages may be known,
  Not copies drawn, but issue of thy own.
  Nay, let thy men of wit too be the same,
  All full of thee, and diff'ring but in name.
  But let no alien Sedley interpose,
  To lard with wit thy hungry Epsom prose.
  And when false flowers of rhetorick thou would'st cull,
  Trust Nature, do not labour to be dull;
  But write thy best, and top; and, in each line,
  Sir Formal's oratory will be thine:
  Sir Formal, though unsought, attends thy quill,
  And does thy Northern Dedications fill.
  Where sold he bargains, whip-stitch, kiss my arse,
  Promis'd a play, and dwindled to a farce?
  When did his muse from Fletcher scenes purloin,
  As thou whole Eth'ridge dost transfuse to thine?
  But so transfus'd, as oil and waters flow,
  His always floats above, thine sinks below.
  This is thy province, this thy wondrous way,
  New humours to invent for each new play:
  This is that boasted bias of thy mind,
  By which, one way, to dulness 'tis inclin'd:
  Which makes thy writings lean on one side still,
  And, in all changes, that way bends thy will.
  Nor let thy mountain-belly make pretence
  Of likeness; thine's a tympany of sense.
  A tun of man in thy large bulk is writ,
  But sure thou'rt but a kilderkin of wit.
  Like mine, thy gentle numbers feebly creep;
  Thy tragic muse gives smiles, thy comic sleep.
  With whate'er gall thou set'st thyself to write,
  Thy inoffensive satires never bite.
  In thy felonious heart though venom lies,
  It does but touch thy Irish pen, and dies.
  Or if thou would'st thy different talents suit,
  Set thy own songs, and sing them to thy lute."
    He said: But his last words were scarcely heard:
  For Bruce and Longvil had a trap prepar'd,
  And down they sent the yet declaiming bard.

XX. EPISTLE TO THE WHIGS.

    This excellent specimen of Dryden's prose satire was prefixed to
    his satiric poem "The Medal", published in March, 1682. It was
    inspired by the striking of a medal to commemorate the rejection by
    the London Grand Jury, on November 24, 1681, of a Bill of High
    Treason presented against Lord Shaftesbury. This event had been a
    great victory for the Whigs and a discomfiture for the Court.

For to whom can I dedicate this poem, with so much justice, as to you? 'Tis the representation
of your own hero: 'Tis the picture drawn at length, which you admire and prize so much in little.
None of your ornaments are wanting; neither the landscape of the tower, nor the rising sun;
nor the Anno Domini of your new sovereign's coronation. This must needs be a grateful undertaking
to your whole party; especially to those who have not been so happy as to purchase the original.
I hear the graver has made a good market of it: all his Kings are bought up already; or the
value of the remainder so enhanced, that many a poor Polander, who would be glad to worship
the image, is not able to go to the cost of him; but must be content to see him here. I must
confess, I am no great artist; but sign-post-painting will serve the turn to remember a friend
by, especially when better is not to be had. Yet, for your comfort, the lineaments are true:
and though he sat not five times to me, as he did to B. yet I have consulted history; as the
Italian painters do, when they would draw a Nero or a Caligula; though they have not seen the
man, they can help their imagination by a statue of him, and find out the colouring from Suetonius
and Tacitus. Truth is, you might have spared one side of your medal: the head would be seen
to more advantage, if it were placed on a spike of the tower; a little nearer to the sun; which
would then break out to better purpose. You tell us, in your preface to the No-Protestant Plot,
that you shall be forced hereafter to leave off your modesty. I suppose you mean that little,
which is left you: for it was worn to rags when you put out this medal. Never was there practised
such a piece of notorious impudence in the face of an established Government. I believe, when
he is dead, you will wear him in thumb-rings, as the Turks did Scanderbeg; as if there were
virtue in his bones to preserve you against monarchy. Yet all this while, you pretend not only
zeal for the public good, but a due veneration for the person of the king. But all men, who
can see an inch before them, may easily detect those gross fallacies. That it is necessary
for men in your circumstances to pretend both, is granted you; for without them there could
be no ground to raise a faction. But I would ask you one civil question: What right has any
man among you, or any association of men (to come nearer to you) who, out of Parliament cannot
be consider'd in a public capacity, to meet, as you daily do, in factious clubs, to vilify
the Government in your discourses, and to libel it in all your writings? Who made you judges
in Israel? Or how is it consistent with your zeal for the public welfare, to promote sedition?
Does your definition of loyal, which is to serve the King according to the laws, allow you
the licence of traducing the executive power, with which you own he is invested? You complain,
that his Majesty has lost the love and confidence of his people; and, by your very urging it,
you endeavour, what in you lies, to make him lose them. All good subjects abhor the thought
of arbitrary power, whether it be in one or many; if you were the patriots you would seem,
you would not at this rate incense the multitude to assume it; for no sober man can fear it,
either from the King's disposition or his practice; or even, where you would odiously lay it,
from his ministers. Give us leave to enjoy the Government, and the benefit of laws, under which
we were born, and which we desire to transmit to our posterity. You are not the trustees of
the public liberty; and if you have not right to petition in a crowd, much less have you to
intermeddle in the management of affairs, or to arraign what you do not like; which in effect
is everything that is done by the King and Council. Can you imagine, that any reasonable man
will believe you respect the person of his Majesty, when 'tis apparent that your seditious
pamphlets are stuffed with particular reflections on him? If you have the confidence to deny
this, 'tis easy to be evinced from a thousand passages, which I only forbear to quote because
I desire they should die and be forgotten. I have perused many of your papers; and to show
you that I have, the third part of your No-Protestant Plot is much of it stolen from your dead
author's pamphlet called the Growth of Popery; as manifestly as Milton's defence of the English
people is from Buchanan, de jure regni apud Scotos; or your first covenant, and new association,
from the holy league of the French Guisards. Anyone, who reads Davila, may trace your practices
all along. There were the same pretences for reformation and loyalty, the same aspersions of
the King, and the same grounds of a rebellion. I know not whether you will take the historian's
word, who says, it was reported, that Poltrot a Huguenot murder'd Francis Duke of Guise, by
the instigations of Theodore Beza; or that it was a Huguenot minister, otherwise called a Presbyterian
(for our Church abhors so devilish a tenet) who first writ a treatise of the lawfulness of
deposing and murdering Kings, of a different persuasion in religion. But I am able to prove
from the doctrine of Calvin, and principles of Buchanan, that they set the people above the
magistrate; which, if I mistake not, is your own fundamental; and which carries your loyalty
no farther than your liking. When a vote of the House of Commons goes on your side, you are
as ready to observe it, as if it were passed into a law: but when you are pinch'd with any
former, and yet unrepealed, Act of Parliament, you declare that in some cases you will not
be obliged by it. The passage is in the same third part of the No-Protestant Plot; and is too
plain to be denied. The late copy of your intended association you neither wholly justify nor
condemn: but as the Papists, when they are unoppos'd, fly out into all the pageantries of worship,
but, in times of war, when they are hard pressed by arguments, lie close intrenched behind
the Council of Trent; so, now, when your affairs are in a low condition, you dare not pretend
that to be a legal combination; but whensover you are afloat, I doubt not but it will be maintained
and justified to purpose. For indeed there is nothing to defend it but the sword: 'Tis the
proper time to say anything, when men have all things in their power.

In the meantime, you would fain be nibbling at a parallel betwixt this association, and that
in the time of Queen Elizabeth. But there is this small difference betwixt them, that the ends
of the one are directly opposite to the other: one with the Queen's approbation and conjunction,
as head of it; the other, without either the consent or knowledge of the King, against whose
authority it is manifestly design'd. Therefore you do well to have recourse to your last evasion,
that it was contriv'd by your enemies, and shuffled into the papers that were seized; which
yet you see the nation is not so easy to believe, as your own jury. But the matter is not difficult,
to find twelve men in Newgate, who would acquit a malefactor. Never own the bottom of your
principles, for fear they should be treason. Fall severely on the miscarriages of Government;
for if scandal be not allowed, you are no free-born subjects. Some of you have been driven
to this bay already; but above all the rest, commend me to the Non-conformist parson, who writ
The Whip and Key. I am afraid it is not read so much as the piece deserves, because the bookseller
is every week crying Help, at the end of his Gazette, to get it off. You see I am charitable
enough to do him a kindness, that it may be published as well as printed; and that so much
skill in Hebrew derivations may not lie for waste-paper in the shop. Yet I half suspect he
went no farther for his learning, than the index of Hebrew names and etymologies, which is
printed at the end of some English bibles. If Achitophel signify the brother of a fool, the
author of that poem will pass with his readers for the next of kin. And, perhaps, 'tis the
relation that makes the kindness. Whatever the verses are, buy them up, I beseech you, out
of pity; for I hear the conventicle is shut up, and the brother of Achitophel out of service.

Now footmen, you know, have the generosity to make a purse, for a member of their society,
who has had his livery pulled over his ears: and even Protestant flocks are brought up among
you, out of veneration to the name. A dissenter in poetry from sense and English, will make
as good a Protestant rhymer, as a dissenter from the Church of England a Protestant parson.
Besides, if you encourage a young beginner, who knows but he may elevate his style a little,
above the vulgar epithets of profane and saucy Jack, and atheistic scribbler, with which he
treats me, when the fit of enthusiasm is strong upon him? By which well-manner'd and charitable
expressions, I was certain of his sect, before I knew his name. What would you have more of
a man? He has damned me in your cause from Genesis to the Revelations; and has half the texts
of both the Testaments against me, if you will be so civil to yourselves as to take him for
your interpreter, and not to take them for Irish witnesses. After all, perhaps, you will tell
me, that you retained him only for the opening of your cause, and that your main lawyer is
yet behind. Now, if it so happen he meet with no more reply than his predecessors, you may
either conclude, that I trust to the goodness of my cause, or fear my adversary, or disdain
him, or what you please; for the short on it is, it is indifferent to your humble servant,
whatever your party says or thinks of him.

DANIEL DEFOE.

(1661-1734)

XXI. INTRODUCTION TO THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN.

    "The True-born Englishman" was a metrical satire designed to defend
    the king, William III., against the attacks made upon him over the
    admission of foreigners into public offices and posts of
    responsibility.

  Speak, satire; for there's none can tell like thee
  Whether 'tis folly, pride, or knavery
  That makes this discontented land appear
  Less happy now in times of peace than war?
  Why civil feuds disturb the nation more
  Than all our bloody wars have done before?
    Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
  And men are always honest in disgrace;
  The court preferments make men knaves in course,
  But they which would be in them would be worse.
  'Tis not at foreigners that we repine,
  Would foreigners their perquisites resign:
  The grand contention's plainly to be seen,
  To get some men put out, and some put in.
  For this our senators make long harangues,
  And florid members whet their polished tongues.
  Statesmen are always sick of one disease,
  And a good pension gives them present ease:
  That's the specific makes them all content
  With any king and any government.
  Good patriots at court abuses rail,
  And all the nation's grievances bewail;
  But when the sovereign's balsam's once applied,
  The zealot never fails to change his side;
  And when he must the golden key resign,
  The railing spirit comes about again.
    Who shall this bubbled nation disabuse,
  While they their own felicities refuse,
  Who the wars have made such mighty pother,
  And now are falling out with one another:
  With needless fears the jealous nation fill,
  And always have been saved against their will:
  Who fifty millions sterling have disbursed,
  To be with peace and too much plenty cursed:
  Who their old monarch eagerly undo,
  And yet uneasily obey the new?
  Search, satire, search; a deep incision make;
  The poison's strong, the antidote's too weak.
  'Tis pointed truth must manage this dispute,
  And downright English, Englishmen confute.
    Whet thy just anger at the nation's pride,
  And with keen phrase repel the vicious tide;
  To Englishmen their own beginnings show,
  And ask them why they slight their neighbours so.
  Go back to elder times and ages past,
  And nations into long oblivion cast;
  To old Britannia's youthful days retire,
  And there for true-born Englishmen inquire.
  Britannia freely will disown the name,
  And hardly knows herself from whence they came:
  Wonders that they of all men should pretend
  To birth and blood, and for a name contend.
  Go back to causes where our follies dwell,
  And fetch the dark original from hell:
  Speak, satire, for there's none like thee can tell.

THE EARL OF DORSET.

(1637-1705.)

XXII. SATIRE ON A CONCEITED PLAYWRIGHT.

    The person against whom this attack was directed was Edward Howard,
    author of The British Princess.

  Thou damn'd antipodes to common-sense,
  Thou foil to Flecknoe, pr'ythee tell from whence
  Does all this mighty stock of dulness spring?
  Is it thy own, or hast it from Snow-hill,
  Assisted by some ballad-making quill?
  No, they fly higher yet, thy plays are such,
  I'd swear they were translated out of Dutch.
  Fain would I know what diet thou dost keep,
  If thou dost always, or dost never sleep?
  Sure hasty-pudding is thy chiefest dish,
  With bullock's liver, or some stinking fish:
  Garbage, ox-cheeks, and tripes, do feast thy brain,
  Which nobly pays this tribute back again.
  With daisy-roots thy dwarfish Muse is fed,
  A giant's body with a pigmy's head.
  Canst thou not find, among thy numerous race
  Of kindred, one to tell thee that thy plays
  Are laught at by the pit, box, galleries, nay, stage?
  Think on't a while, and thou wilt quickly find
  Thy body made for labour, not thy mind.
  No other use of paper thou shouldst make
  Than carrying loads and reams upon thy back.
  Carry vast burdens till thy shoulders shrink,
  But curst be he that gives thee pen and ink:
  Such dangerous weapons should be kept from fools,
  As nurses from their children keep edg'd tools:
  For thy dull fancy a muckinder is fit
  To wipe the slobberings of thy snotty wit:
  And though 'tis late, if justice could be found,
  Thy plays like blind-born puppies should be drown'd.
  For were it not that we respect afford
  Unto the son of an heroic lord,
  Thine in the ducking-stool should take her seat,
  Drest like herself in a great chair of state;
  Where like a Muse of quality she'd die,
  And thou thyself shalt make her elegy,
  In the same strain thou writ'st thy comedy.

JOHN ARBUTHNOT.

(1667-1735.)

XXIII. PREFACE TO JOHN BULL AND HIS LAW-SUIT.

    First published as a political pamphlet, this piece had an
    extraordinary run of popularity. It was originally issued in four
    parts, but these afterwards were reduced to two, without any
    omission, however, of matter. They appeared during the years
    1712-13, and the satire was finally published in book form in 1714.
    The author was the intimate friend of Swift, Pope, and Gay. The
    volume was exceedingly popular in Tory circles. The examples I have
    selected are "The Preface" and also the opening chapters of the
    history, which I have made to run on without breaking them up into
    the short divisions of the text.

[Footnote 166: A Member of Parliament, eminent for a certain cant in his conversation, of which
there is a good deal in this book.]

[Footnote 167: A cant word of Sir Humphrey's.]

[Footnote 168: Another cant word, signifying deceived.]

[Footnote 169: Act restraining the liberty of the press, &c.]

[Footnote 170: The engraver of the cuts before the Grub Street papers.]

XXIV. THE HISTORY OF JOHN BULL. The two chief were John Bull,[174] the clothier, and Nic. Frog,[175]
the linen-draper.

    The true characters of John Bull, Nic. EPITAPH UPON COLONEL CHARTRES.

    Swift was reported to have had a hand in this piece, and indeed for
    some time it was ascribed to him. But there is now no doubt that it
    was entirely the work of Arbuthnot.

      Joannes jacet hic Mirandula--cætera norunt
      Et Tagus et Ganges forsan et Antipodes.

                Applied to F. C.

      Here Francis Chartres lies--be civil!
      The rest God knows--perhaps the devil.

JONATHAN SWIFT.

(1667-1745.)

XXVI. MRS. FRANCES HARRIS' PETITION.

    Written in the year 1701. The Lord Justices addressed were the
    Earls of Berkeley and of Galway. The "Lady Betty" mentioned in the
    piece was the Lady Betty Berkeley. "Lord Dromedary", the Earl of
    Drogheda, and "The Chaplain", Swift himself. The author was at the
    time smarting under a sense of disappointment over the failure of
    his request to Lord Berkeley for preferment to the rich deanery of
    Derry.

TO THEIR EXCELLENCIES THE LORD JUSTICES OF IRELAND. THE HUMBLE PETITION OF FRANCES HARRIS,
WHO MUST STARVE, AND DIE A MAID, IF IT MISCARRIES. HUMBLY SHOWETH,

  That I went to warm myself in Lady Betty's chamber, because I was cold,
  And I had in a purse seven pounds, four shillings, and sixpence,
          besides farthings, in money and gold:
  So, because I had been buying things for my lady last night,
  I was resolved to tell my money, and see if it was right.
  Now you must know, because my trunk has a very bad lock,
  Therefore all the money I have, which God knows, is a very small stock,
  I keep in my pocket, tied about my middle, next my smock.
  So, when I went to put up my purse, as luck would have it,
          my smock was unript,
  And instead of putting it into my pocket, down it slipt:
  Then the bell rung, and I went down to put my lady to bed;
  And, God knows, I thought my money was as safe as my stupid head!
  So, when I came up again, I found my pocket feel very light:
  But when I search'd and miss'd my purse, law! I thought I should have
          sunk outright.
  "Lawk, madam," says Mary, "how d'ye do?" "Indeed," says I, "never worse:
  But pray, Mary, can you tell what I've done with my purse?"
  "Lawk, help me!" said Mary; "I never stirred out of this place:"
  "Nay," said I, "I had it in Lady Betty's chamber, that's a plain case."
  So Mary got me to bed, and cover'd me up warm:
  However, she stole away my garters, that I might do myself no harm.
  So I tumbled and toss'd all night, as you may very well think,
  But hardly ever set my eyes together, or slept a wink.
  So I was a-dream'd, methought, that I went and search'd the folks round,
  And in a corner of Mrs. Dukes's box, tied in a rag the money was found.
  So next morning we told Whittle, and he fell a-swearing:
  Then my dame Wadger came: and she, you know, is thick of hearing:
  "Dame," said I, as loud as I could bawl, "do you know what a loss
          I have had?"
  "Nay," said she, "my Lord Colway's folks are all very sad;
  For my Lord Dromedary comes a Tuesday without fail."
  "Pugh!" said I, "but that's not the business that I ail."
  Says Cary, says he, "I've been a servant this five-and-twenty years
          come spring,
  And in all the places I lived I never heard of such a thing."
  "Yes," says the Steward, "I remember, when I was at my Lady Shrewsbury's,
  Such a thing as this happen'd, just about the time of gooseberries."
  So I went to the party suspected, and I found her full of grief,
  (Now, you must know, of all things in the world I hate a thief,)
  However, I was resolved to bring the discourse slily about:
  "Mrs. Dukes," said I, "here's an ugly accident has happen'd out:
  'Tis not that I value the money three skips of a mouse;
  But the thing I stand upon is the credit of the house.
  'Tis true, seven pounds, four shillings, and sixpence, makes a
          great hole in my wages:
  Besides, as they say, service is no inheritance in these ages.
  Now, Mrs. Dukes, you know, and everybody understands,
  That tho' 'tis hard to judge, yet money can't go without hands."
  "The devil take me," said she (blessing herself), "if ever I saw't!"
  So she roar'd like a Bedlam, as tho' I had called her all to nought.
  So you know, what could I say to her any more?
  I e'en left her, and came away as wise as I was before.
  Well; but then they would have had me gone to the cunning man:
  "No," said I, "'tis the same thing, the chaplain will be here anon."
  So the chaplain came in. Now the servants say he is my sweetheart,
  Because he's always in my chamber, and I always take his part.
  So, as the devil would have it, before I was aware, out I blunder'd,
  "Parson," said I, "can you cast a nativity when a body's plunder'd?"
  (Now you must know, he hates to be called parson, like the devil.)
  "Truly," says he, "Mrs. Nab, it might become you to be more civil;
  If your money be gone, as a learned divine says, d'ye see:
  You are no text for my handling; so take that from me:
  I was never taken for a conjuror before, I'd have you to know."
  "Law!" said I, "don't be angry, I am sure I never thought you so;
  You know I honour the cloth; I design to be a parson's wife,
  I never took one in your coat for a conjuror in all my life."
  With that, he twisted his girdle at me like a rope, as who should say,
  "Now you may go hang yourself for me!" and so went away.
  Well: I thought I should have swoon'd, "Law!" said I, "what shall I do?
  I have lost my money, and shall lose my true love too!"
  Then my Lord called me: "Harry," said my Lord, "don't cry,
  I'll give you something towards your loss;" and, says my Lady,
          "so will I."
  "O, but," said I, "what if, after all, the chaplain won't come to?"
  For that, he said, (an't please your Excellencies), I must petition you.
  The premises tenderly consider'd, I desire your Excellencies' protection,
  And that I may have a share in next Sunday's collection:
  And, over and above, that I may have your Excellencies' letter,
  With an order for the chaplain aforesaid, or, instead of him, a better:
  And then your poor petitioner both night and day,
  Or the chaplain (for 'tis his trade), as in duty bound, shall ever pray.

XXVII. ELEGY ON PARTRIDGE.

    This was written to satirize the superstitious faith placed in the
    predictions of the almanac-makers of the period. Partridge was the
    name of one of them--a cobbler by profession. Fielding also
    satirized the folly in Tom Jones. The elegy is upon "his
    supposed death", which drew from Partridge an indignant denial.

  Well; 'tis as Bickerstaff has guess'd,
  Though we all took it for a jest:
  Partridge is dead; nay more, he died
  Ere he could prove the good 'squire lied.
  Strange, an astrologer should die
  Without one wonder in the sky!
  Not one of his crony stars
  To pay their duty at his hearse!
  Which an astrologer might use
  Either for almanacs or shoes.

  THE EPITAPH.

XXVIII. A MEDITATION UPON A BROOM-STICK.

    The remainder of the title is "According to the Style and Manner of
    the Honourable Robert Boyle's Meditations", and is intended as a
    satire on the style of that philosopher's lucubrations.

This single stick, which you now behold ingloriously lying in that neglected corner, I once
knew in a nourishing state in a forest: it was full of sap, full of leaves, and full of boughs:
but now, in vain does the busy art of man pretend to vie with nature, by tying that withered
bundle of twigs to its sapless trunk. 'Tis now at best but the reverse of what it was, a tree
turned upside down, the branches on the earth, and the root in the air: 'tis now handled by
every dirty wench, condemned to do her drudgery, and, by a capricious kind of fate, destined
to make other things clean, and be nasty itself. At length, worn to the stumps in the service
of the maids, 'tis either thrown out of doors, or condemned to the last use of kindling a fire.
When I beheld this, I sighed and said within myself, surely mortal man is a broom-stick; nature
sent him into the world strong and lusty, in a thriving condition, wearing his own hair on
his head, the proper branches of this reasoning vegetable, till the axe of intemperance has
lopped off his green boughs, and left him a withered trunk. He then flies to art, and puts
on a periwig, valuing himself upon an unnatural bundle of hairs, all covered with powder, that
never grew on his head. But now should this our broomstick pretend to enter the scene, proud
of those birchen spoils it never bore, and all covered with dust, though the sweepings of the
finest lady's chamber, we should be apt to ridicule and despise its vanity. Partial judges
that we are of our own excellencies, and other men's defaults!

But a broom-stick, perhaps you will say, is an emblem of a tree standing on its head; and pray
what is man, but a topsy-turvy creature, his animal faculties perpetually mounted on his rational,
his head where his heels should be, grovelling on the earth! And yet, with all his faults,
he sets up to be an universal reformer and corrector of abuses, a remover of grievances, rakes
into every sluts' corner of nature, bringing hidden corruptions to the light, and raises a
mighty dust where there was none before, sharing deeply all the while in the very same pollutions
he pretends to sweep away. His last days are spent in slavery to women, and generally the least
deserving; till, worn to the stumps, like his brother bezom, he is either kicked out of doors,
or made use of to kindle flames, for others to warm themselves by.

XXIX. THE RELATIONS OF BOOKSELLERS AND AUTHORS.

    This piece constitutes Section X. of The Tale of a Tub.

[Footnote 180: The bad critics.]

[Footnote 181: A name under which Thomas Vaughan wrote.]

XXX. THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCE POSTERITY.

    The following is the famous dedication of The Tale of a Tub. The
    description of "the tyranny of Time" was regarded by Goethe as one
    of the finest passages in Swift's works. 1697.

SIR RICHARD STEELE.

(1672-1729.)

XXXI. THE COMMONWEALTH OF LUNATICS.

    This paper forms No. 125 of The Tatler, January 26th, 1709.

From my own apartment, January 25.

There is a sect of ancient philosophers, who, I think, have left more volumes behind them,
and those better written, than any other of the fraternities in philosophy. It was a maxim
of this sect, that all those who do not live up to the principles of reason and virtue are
madmen. Everyone who governs himself by these rules is allowed the title of wise, and reputed
to be in his senses: and everyone, in proportion as he deviates from them, is pronounced frantic
and distracted. Cicero, having chosen this maxim for his theme, takes occasion to argue from
it very agreeably with Clodius, his implacable adversary, who had procured his banishment.
A city, says he, is an assembly distinguished into bodies of men, who are in possession of
their respective rights and privileges, cast under proper subordinations, and in all its parts
obedient to the rules of law and equity. He then represents the government from whence he was
banished, at a time when the consul, senate, and laws had lost their authority, as a commonwealth
of lunatics. For this reason he regards his expulsion from Rome as a man would being turned
out of Bedlam, if the inhabitants of it should drive him out of their walls as a person unfit
for their community. We are therefore to look upon every man's brain to be touched, however
he may appear in the general conduct of his life, if he has an unjustifiable singularity in
any part of his conversation or behaviour; or if he swerves from right reason, however common
his kind of madness may be, we shall not excuse him for its being epidemical; it being our
present design to clap up all such as have the marks of madness upon them, who are now permitted
to go about the streets for no other reason but because they do no mischief in their fits.
Abundance of imaginary great men are put in straw to bring them to a right sense of themselves.
And is it not altogether as reasonable, that an insignificant man, who has an immoderate opinion
of his merits, and a quite different notion of his own abilities from what the rest of the
world entertain, should have the same care taken of him as a beggar who fancies himself a duke
or a prince? Or why should a man who starves in the midst of plenty be trusted with himself
more than he who fancies he is an emperor in the midst of poverty? I have several women of
quality in my thoughts who set so exorbitant a value upon themselves that I have often most
heartily pitied them, and wished them for their recovery under the same discipline with the
pewterer's wife. I find by several hints in ancient authors that when the Romans were in the
height of power and luxury they assigned out of their vast dominions an island called Anticyra
as an habitation for madmen. This was the Bedlam of the Roman empire, whither all persons who
had lost their wits used to resort from all parts of the world in quest of them. Several of
the Roman emperors were advised to repair to this island: but most of them, instead of listening
to such sober counsels, gave way to their distraction, until the people knocked them on the
head as despairing of their cure. In short, it was as usual for men of distempered brains to
take a voyage to Anticyra in those days as it is in ours for persons who have a disorder in
their lungs to go to Montpellier.

The prodigious crops of hellebore with which this whole island abounded did not only furnish
them with incomparable tea, snuff, and Hungary water, but impregnated the air of the country
with such sober and salutiferous steams as very much comforted the heads and refreshed the
senses of all that breathed in it. A discarded statesman that, at his first landing, appeared
stark, staring mad, would become calm in a week's time, and upon his return home live easy
and satisfied in his retirement. A moping lover would grow a pleasant fellow by that time he
had rid thrice about the island: and a hair-brained rake, after a short stay in the country,
go home again a composed, grave, worthy gentleman.

I have premised these particulars before I enter on the main design of this paper, because
I would not be thought altogether notional in what I have to say, and pass only for a projector
in morality. I could quote Horace and Seneca and some other ancient writers of good repute
upon the same occasion, and make out by their testimony that our streets are filled with distracted
persons; that our shops and taverns, private and public houses, swarm with them; and that it
is very hard to make up a tolerable assembly without a majority of them. But what I have already
said is, I hope, sufficient to justify the ensuing project, which I shall therefore give some
account of without any further preface.

1. It is humbly proposed, That a proper receptacle or habitation be forthwith erected for all
such persons as, upon due trial and examination, shall appear to be out of their wits.

2. That, to serve the present exigency, the college in Moorfields be very much extended at
both ends; and that it be converted into a square, by adding three other sides to it.

3. That nobody be admitted into these three additional sides but such whose frenzy can lay
no claim to any apartment in that row of building which is already erected.

4. That the architect, physician, apothecary, surgeon, keepers, nurses, and porters be all
and each of them cracked, provided that their frenzy does not lie in the profession or employment
to which they shall severally and respectively be assigned.

N.B. It is thought fit to give the foregoing notice, that none may present himself here for
any post of honour or profit who is not duly qualified.

5. That over all the gates of the additional buildings there be figures placed in the same
manner as over the entrance of the edifice already erected, provided they represent such distractions
only as are proper for those additional buildings; as of an envious man gnawing his own flesh;
a gamester pulling himself by the ears and knocking his head against a marble pillar; a covetous
man warming himself over a heap of gold; a coward flying from his own shadow, and the like.

Having laid down this general scheme of my design, I do hereby invite all persons who are willing
to encourage so public-spirited a project to bring in their contributions as soon as possible;
and to apprehend forthwith any politician whom they shall catch raving in a coffee-house, or
any free-thinker whom they shall find publishing his deliriums, or any other person who shall
give the like manifest signs of a crazed imagination. And I do at the same time give this public
notice to all the madmen about this great city, that they may return to their senses with all
imaginable expedition, lest, if they should come into my hands, I should put them into a regimen
which they would not like; for if I find any one of them persist in his frantic behaviour I
will make him in a month's time as famous as ever Oliver's porter was.

JOSEPH ADDISON.

(1672-1719.)

XXXII. SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY'S SUNDAY.

    This piece represents the complete paper, No. 112 of The
    Spectator, July 9th, 1711.

EDWARD YOUNG.

(1681-1765.)

XXXIII. TO THE RIGHT HON. MR. DODINGTON.

    This is justly regarded as one of the finest satires in the English
    language. It is taken from Dr. Young's Series of Satires
    published in collected form in 1750. Dodington was the famous "Bubb
    Dodington", satirized as Bubo by Pope in the "Prologue to the
    Satires".

  Long, Dodington, in debt, I long have sought
  To ease the burden of my graceful thought:
  And now a poet's gratitude you see:
  Grant him two favours, and he'll ask for three:
  For whose the present glory, or the gain?
  You give protection, I a worthless strain.
  You love and feel the poet's sacred flame,
  And know the basis of a solid fame;
  Though prone to like, yet cautious to commend,
  You read with all the malice of a friend;
  Nor favour my attempts that way alone,
  But, more to raise my verse, conceal your own.
    An ill-tim'd modesty! turn ages o'er,
  When wanted Britain bright examples more?
  Her learning, and her genius too, decays;
  And dark and cold are her declining days;
  As if men now were of another cast,
  They meanly live on alms of ages past,
  Men still are men; and they who boldly dare,
  Shall triumph o'er the sons of cold despair;
  Or, if they fail, they justly still take place
  Of such who run in debt for their disgrace;
  Who borrow much, then fairly make it known,
  And damn it with improvements of their own.
  We bring some new materials, and what's old
  New cast with care, and in no borrow'd mould;
  Late times the verse may read, if these refuse;
  And from sour critics vindicate the Muse.
  "Your work is long", the critics cry. 'Tis true,
  And lengthens still, to take in fools like you:
  Shorten my labour, if its length you blame:
  For, grow but wise, you rob me of my game;
  As haunted hags, who, while the dogs pursue,
  Renounce their four legs, and start up on two.

    Like the bold bird upon the banks of Nile
  That picks the teeth of the dire crocodile,
  Will I enjoy (dread feast!) the critic's rage,
  And with the fell destroyer feed my page.
  For what ambitious fools are more to blame,
  Than those who thunder in the critic's name?
  Good authors damn'd, have their revenge in this,
  To see what wretches gain the praise they miss.

    Balbutius, muffled in his sable cloak,
  Like an old Druid from his hollow oak,
  As ravens solemn, and as boding, cries,
  "Ten thousand worlds for the three unities!"
  Ye doctors sage, who through Parnassus teach,
  Or quit the tub, or practise what you preach.

    One judges as the weather dictates; right
  The poem is at noon, and wrong at night:
  Another judges by a surer gage,
  An author's principles, or parentage;
  Since his great ancestors in Flanders fell,
  The poem doubtless must be written well.
  Another judges by the writer's look;
  Another judges, for he bought the book:
  Some judge, their knack of judging wrong to keep;
  Some judge, because it is too soon to sleep.
  Thus all will judge, and with one single aim,
  To gain themselves, not give the writer, fame.
  The very best ambitiously advise,
  Half to serve you, and half to pass for wise.

    Critics on verse, as squibs on triumphs wait,
  Proclaim the glory, and augment the state;
  Hot, envious, noisy, proud, the scribbling fry
  Burn, hiss, and bounce, waste paper, stink, and die.
  Rail on, my friends! what more my verse can crown
  Than Compton's smile, and your obliging frown?

    Not all on books their criticism waste:
  The genius of a dish some justly taste,
  And eat their way to fame; with anxious thought
  The salmon is refus'd, the turbot bought.
  Impatient art rebukes the sun's delay
  And bids December yield the fruits of May;
  Their various cares in one great point combine
  The business of their lives, that is--to dine.
  Half of their precious day they give the feast;
  And to a kind digestion spare the rest.
  Apicius, here, the taster of the town,
  Feeds twice a week, to settle their renown.

    These worthies of the palate guard with care
  The sacred annals of their bills of fare;
  In those choice books their panegyrics read,
  And scorn the creatures that for hunger feed.
  If man by feeding well commences great,
  Much more the worm to whom that man is meat.

    To glory some advance a lying claim,
  Thieves of renown, and pilferers of fame:
  Their front supplies what their ambition lacks;
  They know a thousand lords, behind their backs.
  Cottil is apt to wink upon a peer,
  When turn'd away, with a familiar leer;
  And Harvey's eyes, unmercifully keen,
  Have murdered fops, by whom she ne'er was seen.
  Niger adopts stray libels; wisely prone,
  To cover shame still greater than his own.
  Bathyllus, in the winter of threescore,
  Belies his innocence, and keeps a ----.
  Absence of mind Brabantio turns to fame,
  Learns to mistake, nor knows his brother's name;
  Has words and thoughts in nice disorder set,
  And takes a memorandum to forget.
  Thus vain, not knowing what adorns or blots
  Men forge the patents that create them sots.

    As love of pleasure into pain betrays,
  So most grow infamous through love of praise.
  But whence for praise can such an ardour rise,
  When those, who bring that incense, we despise?
  For such the vanity of great and small,
  Contempt goes round, and all men laugh at all.
  Nor can even satire blame them; for 'tis true,
  They have most ample cause for what they do
  O fruitful Britain! doubtless thou wast meant
  A nurse of fools, to stock the continent.
  Though Phoebus and the Nine for ever mow,
  Rank folly underneath the scythe will grow
  The plenteous harvest calls me forward still,
  Till I surpass in length my lawyer's bill;
  A Welsh descent, which well-paid heralds damn;
  Or, longer still, a Dutchman's epigram.
  When, cloy'd, in fury I throw down my pen,
  In comes a coxcomb, and I write again.
  Is there of thee, ye fair! so great a dearth,
  That you need purchase monkeys for your mirth!

    Some, vain of paintings, bid the world admire;
  Of houses some; nay, houses that they hire:
  Some (perfect wisdom!) of a beauteous wife;
  And boast, like Cordeliers, a scourge for life.

    Sometimes, through pride, the sexes change their airs;
  My lord has vapours, and my lady swears;
  Then, stranger still! on turning of the wind,
  My lord wears breeches, and my lady's kind.

    To show the strength, and infamy of pride,
  By all 'tis follow'd, and by all denied.
  What numbers are there, which at once pursue,
  Praise, and the glory to contemn it, too?
  Vincenna knows self-praise betrays to shame,
  And therefore lays a stratagem for fame;
  Makes his approach in modesty's disguise,
  To win applause; and takes it by surprise.
  "To err," says he, "in small things, is my fate."
  You know your answer, "he's exact in great".
  "My style", says he, "is rude and full of faults."
  "But oh! what sense! what energy of thoughts!"
  That he wants algebra, he must confess;
  "But not a soul to give our arms success".
  "Ah! that's an hit indeed," Vincenna cries;
  "But who in heat of blood was ever wise?
  I own 'twas wrong, when thousands called me back
  To make that hopeless, ill-advised attack;
  All say, 'twas madness; nor dare I deny;
  Sure never fool so well deserved to die."
  Could this deceive in others to be free,
  It ne'er, Vincenna, could deceive in thee!
  Whose conduct is a comment to thy tongue,
  So clear, the dullest cannot take thee wrong.
  Thou on one sleeve wilt thy revenues wear;
  And haunt the court, without a prospect there.
  Are these expedients for renown? Confess
  Thy little self, that I may scorn thee less.

    Be wise, Vincenna, and the court forsake;
  Our fortunes there, nor thou, nor I, shall make.
  Even men of merit, ere their point they gain,
  In hardy service make a long campaign;
  Most manfully besiege the patron's gate,
  And oft repulsed, as oft attack the great
  With painful art, and application warm.
  And take, at last, some little place by storm;
  Enough to keep two shoes on Sunday clean,
  And starve upon discreetly, in Sheer-Lane.
  Already this thy fortune can afford;
  Then starve without the favour of my lord.
  'Tis true, great fortunes some great men confer,
  But often, even in doing right, they err:
  From caprice, not from choice, their favours come:
  They give, but think it toil to know to whom:
  The man that's nearest, yawning, they advance:
  'Tis inhumanity to bless by chance.
  If merit sues, and greatness is so loth
  To break its downy trance, I pity both.

    Behold the masquerade's fantastic scene!
  The Legislature join'd with Drury-Lane!
  When Britain calls, th' embroider'd patriots run,
  And serve their country--if the dance is done.
  "Are we not then allow'd to be polite?"
  Yes, doubtless; but first set your notions right.
  Worth, of politeness is the needful ground;
  Where that is wanting, this can ne'er be found.
  Triflers not even in trifles can excel;
  'Tis solid bodies only polish well.

    Great, chosen prophet! for these latter days,
  To turn a willing world from righteous ways!
  Well, Heydegger, dost thou thy master serve;
  Well has he seen his servant should not starve,
  Thou to his name hast splendid temples raised
  In various forms of worship seen him prais'd,
  Gaudy devotion, like a Roman, shown,
  And sung sweet anthems in a tongue unknown.
  Inferior offerings to thy god of vice
  Are duly paid, in fiddles, cards, and dice;
  Thy sacrifice supreme, an hundred maids!
  That solemn rite of midnight masquerades!

    Though bold these truths, thou, Muse, with truths like these,
  Wilt none offend, whom 'tis a praise to please;
  Let others flatter to be flatter'd, thou
  Like just tribunals, bend an awful brow.
  How terrible it were to common-sense,
  To write a satire, which gave none offence!
  And, since from life I take the draughts you see.
  If men dislike them, do they censure me?
  The fool, and knave, 'tis glorious to offend,
  And Godlike an attempt the world to mend,
  The world, where lucky throws to blockheads fall,
  Knaves know the game, and honest men pay all.
    How hard for real worth to gain its price!
  A man shall make his fortune in a trice,
  If blest with pliant, though but slender, sense,
  Feign'd modesty, and real impudence:
  A supple knee, smooth tongue, an easy grace.
  A curse within, a smile upon his face;
  A beauteous sister, or convenient wife,
  Are prizes in the lottery of life;
  Genius and Virtue they will soon defeat,
  And lodge you in the bosom of the great.
  To merit, is but to provide a pain
  For men's refusing what you ought to gain.

    May, Dodington, this maxim fail in you,
  Whom my presaging thoughts already view
  By Walpole's conduct fired, and friendship grac'd,
  Still higher in your Prince's favour plac'd:
  And lending, here, those awful councils aid,
  Which you, abroad, with such success obey'd!
  Bear this from one, who holds your friendship dear;
  What most we wish, with ease we fancy near.

JOHN GAY.

(1685-1732.)

XXXIV. THE QUIDNUNCKIS.

    The following piece was originally claimed for Swift in the edition
    of his works published in 1749. But it was undoubtedly written by
    Gay, being only sent to Swift for perusal. This explains the fact
    of its being found amongst the papers of the latter. The poem is
    suggested by the death of the Duke Regent of France.

  How vain are mortal man's endeavours?
  (Said, at dame Elleot's,[182] master Travers)
  Good Orleans dead! in truth 'tis hard:
  Oh! may all statesmen die prepar'd!
  I do foresee (and for foreseeing
  He equals any man in being)
  The army ne'er can be disbanded.
  --I with the king was safely landed.
  Ah friends! great changes threat the land!
  All France and England at a stand!
  There's Meroweis--mark! strange work!
  And there's the Czar, and there's the Turk--
  The Pope--An India-merchant by
  Cut short the speech with this reply:
    All at a stand? you see great changes?
  Ah, sir! you never saw the Ganges:
  There dwells the nation of Quidnunckis
  (So Monomotapa calls monkeys:)
  On either bank from bough to bough,
  They meet and chat (as we may now):
  Whispers go round, they grin, they shrug,
  They bow, they snarl, they scratch, they hug;
  And, just as chance or whim provoke them,
  They either bite their friends, or stroke them.
    There have I seen some active prig,
  To show his parts, bestride a twig:
  Lord! how the chatt'ring tribe admire!
  Not that he's wiser, but he's higher:
  All long to try the vent'rous thing,
  (For power is but to have one's swing).
  From side to side he springs, he spurns,
  And bangs his foes and friends by turns.
  Thus as in giddy freaks he bounces,
  Crack goes the twig, and in he flounces!
  Down the swift stream the wretch is borne;
  Never, ah never, to return!
    Zounds! what a fall had our dear brother!
  Morbleu! cries one; and damme, t'other.
  The nation gives a general screech;
  None cocks his tail, none claws his breech;
  Each trembles for the public weal,
  And for a while forgets to steal.
    Awhile all eyes intent and steady
  Pursue him whirling down the eddy:
  But, out of mind when out of view,
  Some other mounts the twig anew;
  And business on each monkey shore
  Runs the same track it ran before.

[Footnote 182: Coffee-house near St. James's.]

ALEXANDER POPE.

(1688-1744.)

XXXV. THE DUNCIAD--THE DESCRIPTION OF DULNESS.

    One of the most scathing satires in the history of literature. Pope
    in the latest editions of it rather spoilt its point by
    substituting Colley Gibber for Theobald as the "hero" of it. Our
    text is from the edition of 1743. The satire first appeared in
    1728, and other editions, greatly altered, were issued in 1729,
    1742, 1743.

  The mighty mother, and her son, who brings
  The Smithfield muses[183] to the ear of kings,
  I sing. Say you, her instruments the great!
  Called to this work by Dulness, Jove, and fate:
  You by whose care, in vain decried and curst,
  Still Dunce the second reigns like Dunce the first;
  Say, how the goddess bade Britannia sleep,
  And poured her spirit o'er the land and deep.
    In eldest time, ere mortals writ or read,
  Ere Pallas issued from the Thunderer's head,
  Dulness o'er all possessed her ancient right,
  Daughter of chaos and eternal night:
  Fate in their dotage this fair idiot gave,
  Gross as her sire, and as her mother grave
  Laborious, heavy, busy, bold, and blind,
  She ruled, in native anarchy, the mind.
    Still her old empire to restore she tries,
  For, born a goddess, Dulness never dies.
  Hence bards, like Proteus long in vain tied down,
  Escape in monsters, and amaze the town.
  Hence miscellanies spring, the weekly boast
  Of Curll's chaste press, and Lintot's rubric post:[186]
  Hence hymning Tyburn's elegiac lines,[187]
  Hence journals, medleys, mercuries, magazines;
  Sepulchral lies, our holy walls to grace,
  And new-year odes,[188] and all the Grub Street race.
    Here she beholds the chaos dark and deep,
  Where nameless somethings in their causes sleep,
  Till genial Jacob,[189] or a warm third day,
  Call forth each mass, a poem, or a play:
  How hints, like spawn, scarce quick in embryo lie,
  How new-born nonsense first is taught to cry,
  Maggots half-formed in rhyme exactly meet,
  And learn to crawl upon poetic feet.
  Here one poor word an hundred clenches makes,
  And ductile dulness new meanders takes
  There motley images her fancy strike,
  Figures ill paired, and similes unlike.
  She sees a mob of metaphors advance,
  Pleased with the madness of the mazy dance;
  How tragedy and comedy embrace;
  How farce and epic get a jumbled race;
  How Time himself[190] stands still at her command,
  Realms shift their place, and ocean turns to land.
  Here gay description Egypt glads with showers,
  Or gives to Zembla fruits, to Barca flowers;
  Glittering with ice here hoary hills are seen,
  There painted valleys of eternal green;
  In cold December fragrant chaplets blow,
  And heavy harvests nod beneath the snow.
    All these and more the cloud-compelling queen
  Beholds through fogs, that magnify the scene.
  She, tinselled o'er in robes of varying hues,
  With self-applause her wild creation views;
  Sees momentary monsters rise and fall,
  And with her own fools-colours gilds them all.
  Much to the mindful queen the feast recalls
  What city swans once sung within the walls;
  Much she revolves their arts, their ancient praise,
  And sure succession down from Heywood's[193] days.
    In each she marks her image full exprest,
  But chief in Bays's monster-breeding breast,
  Bays, formed by nature stage and town to bless,
  And act, and be, a coxcomb with success.
  Dulness, with transport eyes the lively dunce,
  Remembering she herself was pertness once.
  Round him much embryo, much abortion lay,
  Much future ode, and abdicated play;
  Nonsense precipitate, like running lead,
  That slipped through cracks and zigzags of the head;
  All that on folly frenzy could beget,
  Fruits of dull heat, and sooterkins of wit,
  Next, o'er his books his eyes began to roll,
  In pleasing memory of all he stole,
  How here he sipped, how there he plundered snug,
  And sucked all o'er, like an industrious bug.
  Here lay poor Fletcher's half-eat scenes, and here
  The frippery of crucified Molière;
  There hapless Shakespeare, yet of Tibbald sore,
  Wished he had blotted for himself before.
  The rest on outside merit but presume,
  Or serve (like other fools) to fill a room;
  Such with their shelves as due proportion hold,
  Or their fond parents dressed in red and gold;
  Or where the pictures for the page atone,
  And Quarles is saved by beauties not his own.

[Footnote 183: Smithfield is the place where Bartholomew Fair was kept, whose shows and dramatical
entertainments were, by the hero of this poem and others of equal genius, brought to the theatres
of Covent Garden, Lincolns-Inn-Fields, and the Haymarket, to be the reigning pleasures of the
court and town. This happened in the reigns of King George I. and II.]

[Footnote 184: Ironicé, alluding to Gulliver's representations of both.--The next line relates
to the papers of the Drapier against the currency of Wood's copper coin in Ireland, which,
upon the great discontent of the people, his majesty was graciously pleased to recall.]

[Footnote 185: Mr. Caius Gabriel Cibber, father of the poet laureate. The two statues of the
lunatics over the gates of Bedlam Hospital were done by him, and (as the son justly says of
them) are no ill monuments of his fame as an artist.]

[Footnote 186: Two booksellers. The former was fined by the Court of King's Bench for publishing
obscene books; the latter usually adorned his shop with titles in red letters.]

[Footnote 187: It was an ancient English custom for the malefactors to sing a psalm at their
execution at Tyburn; and no less customary to print elegies on their deaths, at the same time
or before.]

[Footnote 188: Made by the poet laureate for the time being, to be sung at court on every New
Year's Day.]

[Footnote 189: Jacob Tonson the bookseller.]

[Footnote 190: Alluding to the transgressions of the unities in the plays of such poets.]

[Footnote 191: Sir George Thorold, Lord Mayor of London in the year 1720. The procession of
a Lord Mayor was made partly by land, and partly by water.--Cimon, the famous Athenian general,
obtained a victory by sea, and another by land, on the same day, over the Persians and barbarians.]

[Footnote 192: Settle was poet to the city of London. His office was to compose yearly panegyrics
upon the Lord Mayors, and verses to be spoken in the pageants: but that part of the shows being
at length abolished, the employment of the city poet ceased; so that upon Settle's death there
was no successor appointed to that place.]

[Footnote 193: John Heywood, whose "Interludes" were printed in the time of Henry VIII.]

[Footnote 194: The first edition had it,--

     "She saw in Norton all his father shine":

Daniel Defoe was a genius, but Norton Defoe was a wretched writer, and never attempted poetry.
Much more justly is Daniel himself made successor to W. Pryn, both of whom wrote verses as
well as politics. And both these authors had a semblance in their fates as well as writings,
having been alike sentenced to the pillory.]

[Footnote 195: Laurence Eusden, poet laureate before Gibber. We have the names of only a few
of his works, which were very numerous.

Nahum Tate was poet laureate, a poor writer, of no invention; but who sometimes translated
tolerably when assisted by Dryden. In the second part of Absalom and Achitophel there are about
two hundred lines in all by Dryden which contrast strongly with the insipidity of the rest.]

[Footnote 196: John Dennis was the son of a saddler in London, born in 1657.

    This satire owed its origin to the fact that Sir Samuel Garth was
    about to publish a new translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses.
    George Sandys--the old translator--died in 1643.

  Ye Lords and Commons, men of wit,
    And pleasure about town;
  Read this ere you translate one bit
    Of books of high renown.

  Beware of Latin authors all!
    Nor think your verses sterling,
  Though with a golden pen you scrawl,
    And scribble in a Berlin:

  For not the desk with silver nails,
    Nor bureau of expense,
  Nor standish well japanned avails
    To writing of good sense.

  Hear how a ghost in dead of night,
    With saucer eyes of fire,
  In woeful wise did sore affright
    A wit and courtly squire.

  Rare Imp of Phoebus, hopeful youth,
    Like puppy tame that uses
  To fetch and carry, in his mouth,
    The works of all the Muses.

  Ah! why did he write poetry
    That hereto was so civil;
  And sell his soul for vanity,
    To rhyming and the devil?

  A desk he had of curious work,
    With glittering studs about;
  Within the same did Sandys lurk,
    Though Ovid lay without.

  Now as he scratched to fetch up thought,
    Forth popped the sprite so thin;
  And from the key-hole bolted out,
    All upright as a pin.

  With whiskers, band, and pantaloon,
    And ruff composed most duly;
  The squire he dropped his pen full soon,
    While as the light burnt bluely.

  "Ho! Master Sam," quoth Sandys' sprite,
    "Write on, nor let me scare ye;
  Forsooth, if rhymes fall in not right,
    To Budgell seek, or Carey.

  "I hear the beat of Jacob's drums,
    Poor Ovid finds no quarter!
  See first the merry P---- comes[197]
    In haste, without his garter.

  "Then lords and lordlings, squires and knights,
    Wits, witlings, prigs, and peers!
  Garth at St. James's, and at White's,
    Beats up for volunteers.

  "What Fenton will not do, nor Gay,
    Nor Congreve, Rowe, nor Stanyan,
  Tom Burnett or Tom D'Urfey may,
    John Dunton, Steele, or anyone.

  "If Justice Philips' costive head
    Some frigid rhymes disburses;
  They shall like Persian tales be read,
    And glad both babes and nurses.

  "Let Warwick's muse with Ashurst join,
    And Ozell's with Lord Hervey's:
  Tickell and Addison combine,
    And Pope translate with Jervas.

  "Lansdowne himself, that lively lord,
    Who bows to every lady,
  Shall join with Frowde in one accord,
    And be like Tate and Brady.

  "Ye ladies too draw forth your pen,
    I pray where can the hurt lie?
  Since you have brains as well as men,
    As witness Lady Wortley.

  "Now, Tonson, 'list thy forces all,
    Review them, and tell noses;
  For to poor Ovid shall befall
    A strange metamorphosis.

  "A metamorphosis more strange
    Than all his books can vapour;"
  "To what" (quoth squire) "shall Ovid change?"
    Quoth Sandys: "To waste paper".

[Footnote 197: The Earl of Pembroke, probably.--Roscoe.]

XXXVII. SATIRE ON THE WHIG POETS.

    This is practically the whole of Pope's famous Epistle to
    Arbuthnot, otherwise the Prologue to the Satires. The only
    portion I have omitted, in order to include in this collection one
    of the greatest of his satires, is the introductory lines, which
    are frequently dropped, as the poem really begins with the line
    wherewith it is represented as opening here.
  Yet then did Dennis rave in furious fret;
  I never answered,--I was not in debt.
  If want provoked, or madness made them print,
  I waged no war with Bedlam or the Mint.
    Did some more sober critic come abroad;
  If wrong, I smiled; if right, I kissed the rod.
  Pains, reading, study, are their just pretence,
  And all they want is spirit, taste, and sense.
  Commas and points they set exactly right,
  And 'twere a sin to rob them of their mite.
  Yet ne'er one sprig of laurel graced these ribalds,
  From slashing Bentley down to pidling Tibalds:
  Each wight, who reads not, and but scans and spells,
  Each word-catcher, that lives on syllables,
  Even such small critic some regard may claim,
  Preserved in Milton's or in Shakespeare's name.
    Were others angry: I excused them too;
  Well might they rage, I gave them but their due.
  A man's true merit 'tis not hard to find;
  But each man's secret standard in his mind,
  That casting-weight pride adds to emptiness,
  This, who can gratify? for who can guess?
  And swear, not Addison himself was safe.
    Who though my name stood rubric on the walls,
  Or plaistered posts, with claps, in capitals?
  Or smoking forth, a hundred hawkers' load,
  On wings of winds came flying all abroad?[201]
  I sought no homage from the race that write;
  I kept, like Asian monarchs, from their sight:
  Poems I heeded (now be-rhymed so long)
  No more than thou, great George! a birthday song.
  I ne'er with wits or witlings passed my days,
  To spread about the itch of verse and praise;
  Nor like a puppy, daggled through the town,
  To fetch and carry sing-song up and down;
  Nor at rehearsals sweat, and mouthed, and cried,
  With handkerchief and orange at my side;
  But sick of fops, and poetry, and prate,
  To Bufo left the whole Castillan state.
  His library (where busts of poets dead
  And a true Pindar stood without a head),
  Received of wits an undistinguished race,
  Who first his judgment asked, and then a place:
  Much they extolled his pictures, much his seat,
  And flattered every day, and some days eat:
  Till grown more frugal in his riper days,
  He paid some bards with port, and some with praise
  To some a dry rehearsal was assigned,
  And others (harder still) he paid in kind,
  Dryden alone (what wonder?) came not nigh,
  Dryden alone escaped this judging eye:
  But still the great have kindness in reserve,
  He helped to bury whom he helped to starve.
    May some choice patron bless each gray goose quill!
  May every Bavias have his Bufo still!
  So, when a statesman wants a day's defence,
  Or envy holds a whole week's war with sense,
  Or simple pride for flattery makes demands,
  May dunce by dunce be whistled off my hands!
  Blest be the great! for those they take away,
  And those they left me; for they left me Gay;
  Left me to see neglected genius bloom,
  Neglected die, and tell it on his tomb:
  Of all thy blameless life the sole return
  My verse, and Queensbury weeping o'er thy urn!
    Why am I asked what next shall see the light?
  Heavens! was I born for nothing but to write?
  Has life no joys for me? or (to be grave)
  Have I no friend to serve, no soul to save?
  "I found him close with Swift"--"Indeed? no doubt,"
  (Cries prating Balbus) "something will come out."
  'Tis all in vain, deny it as I will.
  No, such a genius never can lie still;
  And then for mine obligingly mistakes
  The first lampoon Sir Will,[203] or Bubo[204] makes.
  Poor guiltless I! and can I choose but smile,
  When every coxcomb knows me by my style?
  But he who hurts a harmless neighbour's peace,
  Insults fallen worth, or beauty in distress,
  Who loves a lie, lame slander helps about,
  Who writes a libel, or who copies out:
  That fop, whose pride affects a patron's name,
  Yet absent, wounds an author's honest fame:
  Who can your merit selfishly approve,
  And show the sense of it without the love;
  Who has the vanity to call you friend,
  Yet wants the honour, injured, to defend;
  Who tells whate'er you think, whate'er you say,
  And, if he lie not, must at least betray:
  Who to the Dean, and silver bell can swear,[205]
  And sees at canons what was never there;
  Who reads, but with a lust to misapply,
  Make satire a lampoon, and fiction, lie.
  A lash like mine no honest man shall dread,
  But all such babbling blockheads in his stead.
  That not in fancy's maze he wandered long,
  But stooped to truth, and moralized his song:
  That not for fame, but virtue's better end,
  He stood the furious foe, the timid friend,
  The damning critic, half-approving wit,
  The coxcomb hit, or fearing to be hit;
  Laughed at the loss of friends he never had,
  The dull, the proud, the wicked, and the mad;
  The distant threats of vengeance on his head,
  The blow unfelt, the tear he never shed;
  The tale revived, the lie so oft o'erthrown,
  The imputed trash, and dulness not his own;
  The morals blackened when the writings scape,
  The libelled person, and the pictured shape;
  Abuse, on all he loved, or loved him, spread,
  A friend in exile, or a father, dead;
  The whisper, that to greatness still too near,
  Perhaps, yet vibrates on his sovereign's ear:--
  Welcome for thee, fair virtue! all the past;
  For thee, fair virtue! welcome even the last!
    A. But why insult the poor, affront the great?
    P. A knave's a knave, to me, in every state:
  Alike my scorn, if he succeed or fail,
  Sporus at court, or Japhet in a jail,
  A hireling scribbler, or a hireling peer,
  Knight of the post corrupt, or of the shire;
  If on a pillory, or near a throne,
  He gain his prince's ear, or lose his own.
    Yet soft by nature, more a dupe than wit,
  Sappho can tell you how this man was bit;
  This dreaded satirist Dennis will confess
  Foe to his pride, but friend to his distress;
  So humble, he has knocked at Tibbald's door,
  Has drunk with Cibber, nay, has rhymed for Moore.
  Full ten years slandered, did he once reply?
  Three thousand suns went down on Welsted's lie.
  To please a mistress one aspersed his life;
  He lashed him not, but let her be his wife.
  Let the two Curlls of town and court, abuse
  His father, mother, body, soul, and muse
  Yet why? that father held it for a rule,
  It was a sin to call our neighbour fool:
  That harmless mother thought no wife a whore:
  Hear this, and spare his family, James Moore!
  Unspotted names, and memorable long!
  If there be force in virtue, or in song.
  O, grant me, thus to live, and thus to die!
  Who sprung from kings shall know less joy than I.
    O, friend! may each domestic bliss be thine!
  On cares like these if length of days attend,
  May heaven, to bless those days, preserve my friend,
  Preserve him social, cheerful, and serene,
  And just as rich as when he served a queen.
    A. Whether that blessing be denied or given,
  Thus far was right, the rest belongs to heaven.

[Footnote 198: Ambrose Philips translated a book called the Persian Tales.]

[Footnote 199: Nahum Tate, the joint-author with Brady of the version of the Psalms.]

[Footnote 200: Addison.]

[Footnote 201: Hopkins, in the 104th Psalm.]

[Footnote 202: Lord Halifax.]

[Footnote 203: Sir William Yonge.]

[Footnote 204: Bubb Dodington.]

[Footnote 205: Meaning the man who would have persuaded the Duke of Chandos that Pope meant
to ridicule him in the Epistle on Taste.]

[Footnote 206: Lord Hervey.]

XXXVIII. EPILOGUE TO THE SATIRES.

    The following piece represents the first dialogue in the Epilogue
    to the Satires. Huggins mentioned in the poem was the jailer of the
    Fleet Prison, who had enriched himself by many exactions, for which
    he was tried and expelled. Jekyl was Sir Joseph Jekyl, Master of
    the Rolls, a man of great probity, who, though a Whig, frequently
    voted against the Court, which drew on him the laugh here
    described. Lyttleton was George Lyttleton, Secretary to the Prince
    of Wales, distinguished for his writings in the cause of liberty.
    Written in 1738, and first published in the following year.

  Fr[iend]. Not twice a twelvemonth you appear in print,
  And when it comes, the court see nothing in 't.
  You grow correct, that once with rapture writ,
  And are, besides, too moral for a wit.
  Decay of parts, alas! we all must feel--
  Why now, this moment, don't I see you steal?
  'Tis all from Horace; Horace long before ye
  Said, "Tories called him Whig, and Whigs a Tory";
  And taught his Romans, in much better metre,
  "To laugh at fools who put their trust in Peter".
    But Horace, sir, was delicate, was nice;
  Bubo observes, he lashed no sort of vice:
  Horace would say, Sir Billy served the crown,
  Blunt could do business, Huggins knew the town;
  In Sappho touch the failings of the sex,
  In reverend bishops note some small neglects,
  And own, the Spaniard did a waggish thing,
  Who cropped our ears, and sent them to the king.
  His sly, polite, insinuating style
  Could please at court, and make Augustus smile:
  An artful manager, that crept between
  His friend and shame, and was a kind of screen.
  But 'faith your very friends will soon be sore:
  Patriots there are, who wish you'd jest no more--
  And where's the glory? 'twill be only thought
  The great man never offered you a groat.
  Go see Sir Robert--
    P[ope].
    F. Why yes: with Scripture still you may be free:
  A horse-laugh, if you please, at honesty;
  A joke on Jekyl, or some odd old Whig
  Who never changed his principle or wig.
  A patriot is a fool in every age,
  Whom all Lord Chamberlains allow the stage:
  These nothing hurts; they keep their fashion still,
  And wear their strange old virtue, as they will.
  If any ask you, "Who's the man, so near
  His prince, that writes in verse, and has his ear?"
  Why, answer, Lyttleton, and I'll engage
  The worthy youth shall ne'er be in a rage;
  But were his verses vile, his whisper base,
  You'd quickly find him in Lord Fanny's case.
  Sejanus, Wolsey, hurt not honest Fleury,[207]
  But well may put some statesmen in a fury.
    Laugh then at any, but at fools or foes;
  These you but anger, and you mend not those.
  Laugh at your friends, and, if your friends are sore,
  So much the better, you may laugh the more.
  To vice and folly to confine the jest,
  Sets half the world, God knows, against the rest;
  Did not the sneer of more impartial men
  At sense and virtue, balance all again.
  Judicious wits spread wide the ridicule,
  And charitably comfort knave and fool.
    P. Dear sir, forgive the prejudice of youth:
  Adieu distinction, satire, warmth, and truth!
  Come, harmless characters, that no one hit;
  Come, Henley's oratory, Osborne's wit!
  The honey dropping from Favonio's tongue,
  The flowers of Bubo, and the flow of Yonge!
  The gracious dew of pulpit eloquence,
  And all the well-whipped cream of courtly sense,
  That first was H----vy's, F----'s next, and then
  The S----te's and then H----vy's once again.[208]
  O come, that easy Ciceronian style,
  So Latin, yet so English all the while,
  As, though the pride of Middleton[209] and Bland,
  All boys may read, and girls may understand!
  Then might I sing, without the least offence,
  And all I sung shall be the nation's sense;
  Or teach the melancholy muse to mourn,
  Hang the sad verse on Carolina's[210] urn,
  And hail her passage to the realms of rest,
  All parts performed, and all her children blest!
  So--satire is no more--I feel it die--
  No gazetteer more innocent than I--
  And let, a' God's name, every fool and knave
  Be graced through life, and flattered in his grave.
    F. Why so? if satire knows its time and place,
  You still may lash the greatest--in disgrace:
  For merit will by turns forsake them all;
  Would you know when? exactly when they fall.
  But let all satire in all changes spare
  Immortal Selkirk[211], and grave De----re.
  Silent and soft, as saints remove to heaven,
  All ties dissolved and every sin forgiven,
  These may some gentle ministerial wing
  Receive, and place for ever near a king!
  There, where no passion, pride, or shame transport,
  Lulled with the sweet nepenthe of a court;
  There, where no father's, brother's, friend's disgrace
  Once break their rest, or stir them from their place:
  But passed the sense of human miseries,
  All tears are wiped for ever from all eyes;
  No cheek is known to blush, no heart to throb,
  Save when they lose a question, or a job.
    P. Good heaven forbid, that I should blast their glory,
  Who know how like Whig ministers to Tory,
  And, when three sovereigns died, could scarce be vext,
  Considering what a gracious prince was next.
  Ye gods! shall Gibber's son, without rebuke,
  Swear like a lord, or Rich out-whore a duke?
  A favourite's porter with his master vie,
  Be bribed as often, and as often lie?
  Shall Ward draw contracts with a statesman's skill?
  Or Japhet pocket, like his grace, a will?
  Is it for Bond, or Peter (paltry things),
  To pay their debts, or keep their faith, like kings?
  If Blount dispatched himself, he played the man,
  And so mayest thou, illustrious Passeran!
  But shall a printer, weary of his life,
  Learn, from their books, to hang himself and wife?
  This, this, my friend, I cannot, must not bear;
  Vice thus abused, demands a nation's care;
  This calls the Church to deprecate our sin,
  And hurls the thunder of the laws on gin.

[Footnote 207: Cardinal: and Minister to Louis XV.]

[Footnote 208: This couplet alludes to the preachers of some recent Court Sermons of a florid
panegyrical character; also to some speeches of a like kind, some parts of both of which were
afterwards incorporated in an address to the monarch.]

[Footnote 209: Dr. Conyers Middleton, author of the Life of Cicero.]

[Footnote 210: Queen Consort to King George II. She died in 1737.]

[Footnote 211: A title given to Lord Selkirk by King James II. He was Gentleman of the Bed-chamber
to William III., to George I., and to George II. He was proficient in all the forms of the
House, in which he comported himself with great dignity.]

[Footnote 212: Referring to Lady M.W. Montagu and her sister, the Countess of Mar.]

SAMUEL JOHNSON.

(1709-1784.)

XXXIX. THE VANITY OF HUMAN WISHES.

    Published in January, 1749, in order, as was reported, to excite
    interest in the author's tragedy of Irene. LETTER TO THE EARL OF CHESTERFIELD.

    Though perhaps scarcely a professedly satirical production in the
    proper sense of the word, there are few more pungent satires than
    the following letter. Johnson despised the
    honeyed words, and he states 'I wrote him a letter expressed in
    civil terms, but such as might show him that I did not mind what he
    said or wrote, and that I had done with him'."

OLIVER GOLDSMITH.

(1728-1774.)

XLI. THE RETALIATION.

XLII. THE LOGICIANS REFUTED.

    This piece was first printed in The Busy Body in 1759, in direct
    imitation of the style of Swift. It was, therefore, improperly
    included in the Dublin edition of Swift's works, and in the edition
    of Swift edited by Sir Walter Scott.

XLIII. BEAU TIBBS, HIS CHARACTER AND FAMILY.

    Johnson always maintained that there was a great deal of
    Goldsmith's own nature and eccentricities portrayed in the
    character of Beau Tibbs. The following piece constitutes Letter 54
    of the Citizen of the World.

I am apt to fancy I have contracted a new acquaintance, whom it will be no easy matter to shake
off. My little beau yesterday overtook me again in one of the public walks, and slapping me
on the shoulder, saluted me with an air of the most perfect familiarity. His dress was the
same as usual, except that he had more powder in his hair, wore a dirtier shirt, a pair of
temple spectacles, and his hat under his arm.

As I knew him to be an harmless, amusing little thing, I could not return his smiles with any
degree of severity: so we walked forward on terms of the utmost intimacy, and in a few minutes
discussed all the usual topics preliminary to particular conversation.

The oddities that marked his character, however, soon began to appear; he bowed to several
well-dressed persons, who, by their manner of returning the compliment, appeared perfect strangers.
At intervals he drew out a pocket-book, seeming to take memorandums before all the company,
with much importance and assiduity. In this manner he led me through the length of the whole
walk, fretting at his absurdities, and fancying myself laughed at not less than him by every
spectator.

When we were got to the end of our procession, "Blast me," cries he, with an air of vivacity,
"I never saw the park so thin in my life before; there's no company at all to-day; not a single
face to be seen." "No company," interrupted I, peevishly; "no company where there is such a
crowd! why man, there's too much. What are the thousands that have been laughing at us but
company!" "Lard, my dear," returned he, with the utmost good-humour, "you seem immensely chagrined;
but blast me, when the world laughs at me, I laugh at all the world, and so we are even. My
Lord Trip, Bill Squash, the Creolian, and I sometimes make a party at being ridiculous; and
so we say and do a thousand things for the joke. But I see you are grave, and if you are a
fine grave sentimental companion, you shall dine with me and my wife to-day, I must insist
on't; I'll introduce you to Mrs. Tibbs, a lady of as elegant qualifications as any in nature;
she was bred, but that's between ourselves, under the inspection of the Countess of All-night.
A charming body of voice, but no more of that, she will give us a song. You shall see my little
girl too, Carolina Wilhelma Amelia Tibbs, a sweet pretty creature; I design her for my Lord
Drumstick's eldest son, but that's in friendship, let it go no farther; she's but six years
old, and yet she walks a minuet, and plays on the guitar immensely already. I intend she shall
be as perfect as possible in every accomplishment. In the first place I'll make her a scholar;
I'll teach her Greek myself, and learn that language purposely to instruct her; but let that
be a secret."

Thus saying, without waiting for a reply, he took me by the arm, and hauled me along. We passed
through many dark alleys and winding ways; for, from some motives, to me unknown, he seemed
to have a particular aversion to every frequented street; at last, however, we got to the door
of a dismal-looking house in the outlets of the town, where he informed me he chose to reside
for the benefit of the air.

We entered the lower door, which ever seemed to lie most hospitably open, and I began to ascend
an old and creaking staircase, when, as he mounted to show me the way, he demanded whether
I delighted in prospects, to which answering in the affirmative, "Then," says he, "I shall
show you one of the most charming in the world out of my windows; we shall see the ships sailing,
and the whole country for twenty miles round, tip top, quite high. My Lord Swamp would give
ten thousand guineas for such an one; but as I sometimes pleasantly tell him, I always love
to keep my prospects at home, that my friends may see me the oftener." "My two shirts," cries
he in a tone that faltered with confusion, "what does the idiot mean!"

We waited some time for Mrs. Tibbs' arrival, during which interval I had a full opportunity
of surveying the chamber and all its furniture; which consisted of four chairs with old wrought
bottoms, that he assured me were his wife's embroidery; a square table that had been once japanned,
a cradle in one corner, a lumbering cabinet in the other; a broken shepherdess, and a mandarin
without a head, were stuck over the chimney; and round the walls several paltry, unframed pictures,
which, he observed, were all his own drawing. "What do you think, sir, of that head in a corner,
done in the manner of Grisoni? There's the true keeping in it; it's my own face, and though
there happens to be no likeness, a countess offered me an hundred for its fellow. I refused
her, for, hang it, that would be mechanical, you know."

The wife at last made her appearance, at once a slattern and a coquette; much emaciated, but
still carrying the remains of beauty. She made twenty apologies for being seen in such odious
dishabille, but hoped to be excused, as she had stayed out all night at the gardens with the
countess, who was excessively fond of the horns. "And, indeed, my dear," added she, turning
to her husband, "his lordship drank your health in a bumper." "Poor Jack," cries he, "a dear
good-natured creature, I know he loves me; but I hope, my dear, you have given orders for dinner;
you need make no great preparations neither, there are but three of us, something elegant,
and little will do; a turbot, an ortolan, or a--" "Or what do you think, my dear," interrupts
the wife, "of a nice pretty bit of ox-cheek, piping hot, and dressed with a little of my own
sauce."--"The very thing," replies he, "it will eat best with some smart bottled beer: but
be sure to let's have the sauce his grace was so fond of. I hate your immense loads of meat,
that is country all over; extreme disgusting to those who are in the least acquainted with
high life."

By this time my curiosity began to abate, and my appetite to increase; the company of fools
may at first make us smile, but at last never fails of rendering us melancholy; I therefore
pretended to recollect a prior engagement, and after having shown my respect to the house,
according to the fashion of the English, by giving the old servant a piece of money at the
door, I took my leave; Mr. Tibbs assuring me that dinner, if I stayed, would be ready at least
in less than two hours.

CHARLES CHURCHILL.

(1731-1764.)

XLIV. THE JOURNEY.

    Churchill devoted himself principally to satirical attacks upon
    actors and the stage as a whole. His Rosciad created quite a
    panic among the disciples of Thespis, even the mighty Garrick
    courting this terrible censor morum. His own morals were but
    indifferent.

  Some of my friends (for friends I must suppose
  All, who, not daring to appear my foes,
  Feign great good-will, and not more full of spite
  Than full of craft, under false colours fight)
  Some of my friends (so lavishly I print)
  As more in sorrow than in anger, hint
  (Tho' that indeed will scarce admit a doubt)
  That I shall run my stock of genius out,
  My no great stock, and, publishing so fast,
  Must needs become a bankrupt at the last.
    Recover'd from the vanity of youth,
  I feel, alas! this melancholy truth,
  Thanks to each cordial, each advising friend,
  And am, if not too late, resolv'd to mend,
  Resolv'd to give some respite to my pen,
  Apply myself once more to books and men,
  View what is present, what is past review,
  And my old stock exhausted, lay in new.
  For twice six moons (let winds, turn'd porters, bear
  This oath to Heav'n), for twice six moons, I swear,
  No Muse shall tempt me with her siren lay,
  Nor draw me from Improvement's thorny way;
  Verse I abjure, nor will forgive that friend,
  Who in my hearing shall a rhyme commend.
    It cannot be--Whether I will, or no,
  Such as they are, my thoughts in measure flow.
  Convinc'd, determin'd, I in prose begin,
  But ere I write one sentence, verse creeps in,
  And taints me thro' and thro': by this good light,
  In verse I talk by day, I dream by night;
  If now and then I curse, my curses chime,
  Nor can I pray, unless I pray in rhyme,
  E'en now I err, in spite of common-sense,
  And my confession doubles my offence.
  Here is no lie, no gall, no art, no force;
  Mean are the words, and such as come of course,
  The subject not less simple than the lay;
  A plain, unlabour'd Journey of a day.
    Far from me now be ev'ry tuneful Maid,
  I neither ask, nor can receive their aid.
  Pegasus turn'd into a common hack,
  Alone I jog, and keep the beaten track,
  Nor would I have the Sisters of the Hill
  Behold their bard in such a dishabille.
  Absent, but only absent for a time,
  Let them caress some dearer son of rhyme;
  Let them, as far as decency permits,
  Without suspicion, play the fool with wits,
  'Gainst fools be guarded; 'tis a certain rule,
  Wits are false things, there's danger in a fool.
    Thus, or in any better way they please,
  With these great men, or with great men like these,
  Let them their appetite for laughter feed;
  I on my Journey all alone proceed.
  Ingratitude hath planted daggers there,
  No good man can deserve, no brave man bear.

[Footnote 214: See The School for Lovers, by Mr. Whitehead, taken from Fontenelle.]

[Footnote 215: See The Cure of Saul, by Dr. Browne.]

JUNIUS.

(1769-1770-1771.)

XLV. TO THE KING.

    The following is the famous letter which appeared in the Public
    Advertiser for December 20th, 1769. This is also the one on which
    the advocates of the theory that George, Lord Sackville, was the
    writer of the Letters of Junius lay such stress.

To the Printer of the "Public Advertiser".

December 19, 1769.

SIR,

When the complaints of a brave and powerful people are observed to increase in proportion to
the wrongs they have suffered, when, instead of sinking into submission, they are roused to
resistance, the time will soon arrive at which every inferior consideration must yield to the
security of the sovereign, and to the general safety of the state. There is a moment of difficulty
and danger at which flattery and falsehood can no longer deceive, and simplicity itself can
no longer be misled. Let us suppose it arrived; let us suppose a gracious, well-intentioned
prince, made sensible at last of the great duty he owes to his people, and of his own disgraceful
situation; that he looks round him for assistance, and asks for no advice but how to gratify
the wishes and secure the happiness of his subjects. In these circumstances, it may be matter
of curious speculation to consider, if an honest man were permitted to approach a king, in
what terms he would address himself to his sovereign. Let it be imagined, no matter how improbable,
that the first prejudice against his character is removed; that the ceremonious difficulties
of an audience are surmounted; that he feels himself animated by the purest and most honourable
affections to his king and country; and that the great person whom he addresses has spirit
enough to bid him speak freely, and understanding enough to listen to him with attention. Unacquainted
with the vain impertinence of forms, he would deliver his sentiments with dignity and firmness,
but not without respect.

Sir,

It is the misfortune of your life, and originally the cause of every reproach and distress
which has attended your government, that you should never have been acquainted with the language
of truth until you heard it in the complaints of your people. It is not, however, too late
to correct the error of your education. We are still inclined to make an indulgent allowance
for the pernicious lessons you received in your youth, and to form the most sanguine hopes
from the natural benevolence of your disposition. We are far from thinking you capable of a
direct, deliberate purpose to invade those original rights of your subjects on which all their
civil and political liberties depend. Had it been possible for us to entertain a suspicion
so dishonourable to your character, we should long since have adopted a style of remonstrance
very distant from the humility of complaint. The doctrine inculcated by our laws, That the
king can do no-wrong, is admitted without reluctance. We separate the amiable, good-natured
prince from the folly and treachery of his servants, and the private virtues of the man from
the vices of his government. Were it not for this just distinction, I know not whether your
Majesty's condition, or that of the English nation, would deserve most to be lamented. I would
prepare your mind for a favourable reception of truth by removing every painful, offensive
idea of personal reproach. Your subjects, Sir, wish for nothing but that, as they are reasonable
and affectionate enough to separate your person from your government, so you, in your turn,
should distinguish between the conduct which becomes the permanent dignity of a king and that
which serves only to promote the temporary interest and miserable ambition of a minister.

You ascended the throne with a declared--and, I doubt not, a sincere--resolution of giving
universal satisfaction to your subjects. You found them pleased with the novelty of a young
prince whose countenance promised even more than his words, and loyal to you, not only from
principle, but passion. It was not a cold profession of allegiance to the first magistrate,
but a partial, animated attachment to a favourite prince, the native of their country. They
did not wait to examine your conduct nor to be determined by experience, but gave you a generous
credit for the future blessings of your reign, and paid you in advance the dearest tribute
of their affections. Such, Sir, was once the disposition of a people who now surround your
throne with reproaches and complaints.--Do justice to yourself. Banish from your mind those
unworthy opinions with which some interested persons have laboured to possess you.--Distrust
the men who tell you that the English are naturally light and inconstant; that they complain
without a cause. Withdraw your confidence equally from all parties--from ministers, favourites,
and relations; and let there be one moment in your life in which you have consulted your own
understanding.

When you affectedly renounced the name of Englishman, believe me, Sir, you were persuaded to
pay a very ill-judged compliment to one part of your subjects at the expense of another. While
the natives of Scotland are not in actual rebellion, they are undoubtedly entitled to protection;
nor do I mean to condemn the policy of giving some encouragement to the novelty of their affections
for the House of Hanover. I am ready to hope for everything from their new-born zeal, and from
the future steadiness of their allegiance, but hitherto they have no claim to your favour.
To honour them with a determined predilection and confidence, in exclusion of your English
subjects, who placed your family, and, in spite of treachery and rebellion, have supported
it, upon the throne, is a mistake too gross even for the unsuspecting generosity of youth.
In this error we see a capital violation of the most obvious rules of policy and prudence.
We trace it, however, to an original bias in your education, and are ready to allow for your
inexperience.

To the same early influence we attribute it that you have descended to take a share, not only
in the narrow views and interests of particular persons, but in the fatal malignity of their
passions. At your accession to the throne the whole system of government was altered, not from
wisdom or deliberation, but because it had been adopted by your predecessor. A little personal
motive of pique and resentment was sufficient to remove the ablest servants of the Crown; but
it is not in this country, Sir, that such men can be dishonoured by the frowns of a king. They
were dismissed, but could not be disgraced. Without entering into a minuter discussion of the
merits of the peace, we may observe, in the imprudent hurry with which the first overtures
from France were accepted, in the conduct of the negotiation, and terms of the treaty, the
strongest marks of that precipitate spirit of concession with which a certain part of your
subjects have been at all times ready to purchase a peace with the natural enemies of this
country. On your part we are satisfied that everything was honourable and sincere; and, if
England was sold to France, we doubt not that your Majesty was equally betrayed. The conditions
of the peace were matter of grief and surprise to your subjects, but not the immediate cause
of their present discontent.

Hitherto, Sir, you had been sacrificed to the prejudices and passions of others. With what
firmness will you bear the mention of your own?

A man, not very honourably distinguished in the world, commences a formal attack upon your
favourite, considering nothing but how he might best expose his person and principles to detestation,
and the national character of his countrymen to contempt. The natives of that country, Sir,
are as much distinguished by a peculiar character as by your Majesty's favour. Like another
chosen people, they have been conducted into the land of plenty, where they find themselves
effectually marked and divided from mankind. There is hardly a period at which the most irregular
character may not be redeemed. The mistakes of one sex find a retreat in patriotism, those
of the other in devotion. Mr. Wilkes brought with him into politics the same liberal sentiments
by which his private conduct had been directed, and seemed to think that, as there are few
excesses in which an English gentleman may not be permitted to indulge, the same latitude was
allowed him in the choice of his political principles, and in the spirit of maintaining them.
I mean to state, not entirely to defend, his conduct. In the earnestness of his zeal he suffered
some unwarrantable insinuations to escape him. He said more than moderate men would justify,
but not enough to entitle him to the honour of your Majesty's personal resentment. The rays
of royal indignation, collected upon him, served only to illuminate, and could not consume.
Animated by the favour of the people on the one side, and heated by persecution on the other,
his views and sentiments changed with his situation. Hardly serious at first, he is now an
enthusiast. The coldest bodies warm with opposition, the hardest sparkle in collision.--There
is a holy, mistaken zeal in politics as well as religion. By persuading others, we convince
ourselves. The passions are engaged, and create a material affection in the mind, which forces
us to love the cause for which we suffer. Is this a contention worthy of a king? Are you not
sensible how much the meanness of the cause gives an air of ridicule to the serious difficulties
into which you have been betrayed? The destruction of one man has been now, for many years,
the sole object of your government; and, if there can be anything still more disgraceful, we
have seen, for such an object, the utmost influence of the executive power, and every ministerial
artifice, exerted without success. Nor can you ever succeed, unless he should be imprudent
enough to forfeit the protection of those laws to which you owe your crown, or unless your
minister should persuade you to make it a question of force alone, and try the whole strength
of government in opposition to the people. The lessons he has received from experience will
probably guard him from such excess of folly, and in your Majesty's virtues we find an unquestionable
assurance that no illegal violence will be attempted.

Far from suspecting you of so horrible a design, we would attribute his continued violation
of the laws, and even the last enormous attack upon the vital principles of the constitution,
to an ill-advised, unworthy, personal resentment. From one false step you have been betrayed
into another, and, as the cause was unworthy of you, your ministers were determined that the
prudence executed should correspond with the wisdom and dignity of the design. They have reduced
you to the necessity of choosing out of a variety of difficulties; to a situation so unhappy
that you can neither do wrong without ruin, nor right without affliction. These worthy servants
have undoubtedly given you many singular proofs of their abilities. Not contented with making
Mr. Wilkes a man of importance, they have judiciously transferred the question from the rights
and interests of one man to the most important rights and interests of the people, and forced
your subjects from wishing well to the cause of an individual to unite with him in their own.
Let them proceed as they have begun, and your Majesty need not doubt that the catastrophe will
do no dishonour to the conduct of the piece.

The circumstances to which you are reduced will not admit of a compromise with the English
nation. Undecisive, qualifying measures will disgrace your government still more than open
violence, and, without satisfying the people, will excite their contempt. They have too much
understanding and spirit to accept of an indirect satisfaction for a direct injury. Nothing
less than a repeal, as formal as the resolution itself, can heal the wound which has been given
to the constitution, nor will anything less be accepted. I can readily believe that there is
an influence sufficient to recall that pernicious vote. The House of Commons undoubtedly consider
their duty to the Crown as paramount to all other obligations. To us they are only indebted
for an accidental existence, and have justly transferred their gratitude from their parents
to their benefactors, from those who gave them birth to the minister from whose benevolence
they derive the comforts and pleasure of their political life, who has taken the tenderest
care of their infancy and relieves their necessities without offending their delicacy. But
if it were possible for their integrity to be degraded to a condition so vile and abject that,
compared with it, the present estimation they stand in is a state of honour and respect, consider,
Sir, in what manner you will afterwards proceed. Can you conceive that the people of this country
will long submit to be governed by so flexible a House of Commons? It is not in the nature
of human society that any form of government, in such circumstances, can long be preserved.
In ours, the general contempt of the people is as fatal as their detestation. Such, I am persuaded,
would be the necessary effect of any base concession made by the present House of Commons,
and, as a qualifying measure would not be accepted, it remains for you to decide whether you
will, at any hazard, support a set of men who have reduced you to this unhappy dilemma, or
whether you will gratify the united wishes of the whole people of England by dissolving the
Parliament.

Taking it for granted, as I do very sincerely, that you have personally no design against the
constitution, nor any view inconsistent with the good of your subjects, I think you cannot
hesitate long upon the choice which it equally concerns your interests and your honour to adopt.
On one side you hazard the affection of all your English subjects, you relinquish every hope
of repose to yourself, and you endanger the establishment of your family for ever. All this
you venture for no object whatsoever, or for such an object as it would be an affront to you
to name. Men of sense will examine your conduct with suspicion, while those who are incapable
of comprehending to what degree they are injured afflict you with clamours equally insolent
and unmeaning. Supposing it possible that no fatal struggle should ensue, you determine at
once to be unhappy, without the hope of a compensation either from interest or ambition. If
an English king be hated or despised, he must be unhappy; and this, perhaps, is the only political
truth which he ought to be convinced of without experiment. But if the English people should
no longer confine their resentment to a submissive representation of their wrongs; if, following
the glorious example of their ancestors, they should no longer appeal to the creature of the
constitution, but to that high Being who gave them the rights of humanity, whose gifts it were
sacrilege to surrender, let me ask you, Sir, upon what part of your subjects would you rely
for assistance?

The people of Ireland have been uniformly plundered and oppressed. In return they give you
every day fresh marks of their resentment. They despise the miserable governor you have sent
them, because he is the creature of Lord Bute, nor is it from any natural confusion in their
ideas that they are so ready to confound the original of a king with the disgraceful representation
of him.

The distance of the colonies would make it impossible for them to take an active concern in
your affairs, if they were as well affected to your government as they once pretended to be
to your person. They were ready enough to distinguish between you and your ministers. They
complained of an act of the legislature, but traced the origin of it no higher than to the
servants of the Crown; they pleased themselves with the hope that their sovereign, if not favourable
to their cause, at least was impartial. The decisive personal part you took against them has
effectually banished that first distinction from their minds. Looking forward to independence,
they might possibly receive you for their king; but, if ever you retire to America, be assured
they will give you such a covenant to digest as the presbytery of Scotland would have been
ashamed to offer to Charles the Second. They left their native land in search of freedom, and
found it in a desert. Divided as they are into a thousand forms of policy and religion, there
is one point in which they all agree: they equally detest the pageantry of a king and the supercilious
hypocrisy of a bishop.

It is not, then, from the alienated affections of Ireland or America that you can reasonably
look for assistance; still less from the people of England, who are actually contending for
their rights, and in this great question are parties against you. You are not, however, destitute
of every appearance of support: you have all the Jacobites, Non-jurors, Roman Catholics, and
Tories of this country, and all Scotland, without exception. Considering from what family you
are descended, the choice of your friends has been singularly directed; and truly, Sir, if
you had not lost the Whig interest of England, I should admire your dexterity in turning the
hearts of your enemies. Is it possible for you to place any confidence in men who, before they
are faithful to you, must renounce every opinion and betray every principle, both in church
and state, which they inherit from their ancestors and are confirmed in by their education;
whose numbers are so inconsiderable that they have long since been obliged to give up the principles
and language which distinguish them as a party, and to fight under the banners of their enemies?
Their zeal begins with hypocrisy, and must conclude in treachery. At first they deceive, at
last they betray.

As to the Scotch, I must suppose your heart and understanding so biassed from your earliest
infancy in their favour that nothing less than your own misfortunes can undeceive you. You
will not accept of the uniform experience of your ancestors; and, when once a man is determined
to believe, the very absurdity of the doctrine confirms him in his faith. A bigoted understanding
can draw a proof of attachment to the House of Hanover from a notorious zeal for the House
of Stuart, and find an earnest of future loyalty in former rebellions. Appearances are, however,
in their favour: so strongly, indeed, that one would think they had forgotten that you are
their lawful king, and had mistaken you for a pretender to the crown. Let it be admitted, then,
that the Scotch are as sincere in their present professions as if you were in reality, not
an Englishman, but a Briton of the North. You would not be the first prince of their native
country against whom they have rebelled, nor the first whom they have basely betrayed. Have
you forgotten, Sir, or has your favourite concealed from you, that part of our history when
the unhappy Charles (and he, too, had private virtues) fled from the open, avowed indignation
of his English subjects, and surrendered himself at discretion to the good faith of his own
countrymen? Without looking for support in their affections as subjects, he applied only to
their honour as gentlemen for protection. They received him, as they would your Majesty, with
bows and smiles and falsehood, and kept him until they had settled their bargain with the English
parliament, then basely sold their native king to the vengeance of his enemies. This, Sir,
was not the act of a few traitors, but the deliberate treachery of a Scotch parliament representing
the nation. A wise prince might draw from it two lessons of equal utility to himself. On one
side he might learn to dread the undisguised resentment of a generous people who dare openly
assert their rights, and who in a just cause are ready to meet their sovereign in the field.
On the other side he would be taught to apprehend something far more formidable: a fawning
treachery against which no prudence can guard, no courage can defend. The insidious smile upon
the cheek would warn him of the canker in the heart.

From the uses to which one part of the army has been too frequently applied, you have some
reason to expect that there are no services they would refuse. Here, too, we trace the partiality
of your understanding. You take the sense of the army from the conduct of the guards, with
the same justice with which you collect the sense of the people from the representations of
the ministry. Your marching regiments, Sir, will not make the guards their example either as
soldiers or subjects. If they had no sense of the great original duty they owe their country,
their resentment would operate like patriotism, and leave your cause to be defended by those
on whom you have lavished the rewards and honours of their profession. The Prætorian bands,
enervated and debauched as they were, had still strength enough to awe the Roman populace,
but when the distant legions took the alarm they marched to Rome and gave away the empire.

On this side, then, whichever way you turn your eyes, you see nothing but perplexity and distress.
You may determine to support the very ministry who have reduced your affairs to this deplorable
situation; you may shelter yourself under the forms of a parliament, and set the people at
defiance; but be assured, Sir, that such a resolution would be as imprudent as it would be
odious. If it did not immediately shake your establishment, it would rob you of your peace
of mind for ever.

On the other, how different is the prospect! How easy, how safe and honourable, is the path
before you! The English nation declare they are grossly injured by their representatives, and
solicit your Majesty to exert your lawful prerogative, and give them an opportunity of recalling
a trust which they find has been scandalously abused. You are not to be told that the power
of the House of Commons is not original, but delegated to them for the welfare of the people,
from whom they received it. A question of right arises between the constituent and the representative
body. By what authority shall it be decided? Will your Majesty interfere in a question in which
you have, properly, no immediate concern? It would be a step equally odious and unnecessary.
Shall the Lords be called upon to determine the rights and privileges of the Commons? They
cannot do it without a flagrant breach of the constitution. Or will you refer it to the judges?
They have often told your ancestors that the law of parliament is above them. What part then
remains but to leave it to the people to determine for themselves? They alone are injured,
and since there is no superior power to which the cause can be referred, they alone ought to
determine.

I do not mean to perplex you with a tedious argument upon a subject already so discussed that
inspiration could hardly throw a new light upon it. There are, however, two points of view
in which it particularly imports your Majesty to consider the late proceedings of the House
of Commons. By depriving a subject of his birthright they have attributed to their own vote
an authority equal to an act of the whole legislature, and, though perhaps not with the same
motives, have strictly followed the example of the Long Parliament, which first declared the
regal office useless, and soon after, with as little ceremony, dissolved the House of Lords.
The same pretended power which robs an English subject of his birthright may rob an English
king of his crown. In another view, the resolution of the House of Commons, apparently not
so dangerous to your Majesty, is still more alarming to your people. Not contented with divesting
one man of his right, they have arbitrarily conveyed that right to another. They have set aside
a return as illegal, without daring to censure those officers who were particularly apprised
of Mr. Wilkes' incapacity, not only by the declaration of the House, but expressly by the writ
directed to them, and who, nevertheless, returned him as duly elected. They have rejected the
majority of votes, the only criterion by which our laws judge of the sense of the people; they
have transferred the right of election from the collective to the representative body; and
by these acts, taken separately or together, they have essentially altered the original constitution
of the House of Commons. Versed as your Majesty undoubtedly is in the English history, it cannot
escape you how much it is your interest as well as your duty to prevent one of the three estates
from encroaching upon the province of the other two, or assuming the authority of them all.
When once they have departed from the great constitutional line by which all their proceedings
should be directed, who will answer for their future moderation? Or what assurance will they
give you that, when they have trampled upon their equals, they will submit to a superior? Your
Majesty may learn hereafter how nearly the slave and tyrant are allied.

Some of your council, more candid than the rest, admit the abandoned profligacy of the present
House of Commons, but oppose their dissolution, upon an opinion, I confess, not very unwarrantable,
that their successors would be equally at the disposal of the treasury. I cannot persuade myself
that the nation will have profited so little by experience. But if that opinion were well founded,
you might then gratify our wishes at an easy rate, and appease the present clamour against
your government, without offering any material injury to the favourite cause of corruption.

You have still an honourable part to act. The affections of your subjects may still be recovered.
But before you subdue their hearts you must gain a noble victory over your own. Discard those
little, personal resentments which have too long directed your public conduct. Pardon this
man the remainder of his punishment; and, if resentment still prevails, make it what it should
have been long since--an act, not of mercy, but of contempt. He will soon fall back into his
natural station, a silent senator, and hardly supporting the weekly eloquence of a newspaper.
The gentle breath of peace would leave him on the surface, neglected and unremoved. It is only
the tempest that lifts him from his place.

Without consulting your minister, call together your whole council. Let it appear to the public
that you can determine and act for yourself. Come forward to your people. Lay aside the wretched
formalities of a king, and speak to your subjects with the spirit of a man and in the language
of a gentleman. Tell them you have been fatally deceived. The acknowledgment will be no disgrace,
but rather an honour, to your understanding. Tell them you are determined to remove every cause
of complaint against your government, that you will give your confidence to no man who does
not possess the confidence of your subjects, and leave it to themselves to determine, by their
conduct at a future election, whether or no it be in reality the general sense of the nation
that their rights have been arbitrarily invaded by the present House of Commons, and the constitution
betrayed. They will then do justice to their representatives and to themselves.

These sentiments, Sir, and the style they are conveyed in, may be offensive, perhaps, because
they are new to you. Accustomed to the language of courtiers, you measure their affections
by the vehemence of their expressions, and when they only praise you indifferently, you admire
their sincerity. But this is not a time to trifle with your fortune. They deceive you, Sir,
who tell you that you have many friends, whose affections are founded upon a principle of personal
attachment. The first foundation of friendship is not the power of conferring benefits, but
the equality with which they are received and may be returned. The fortune which made you a
king forbade you to have a friend. It is a law of nature which cannot be violated with impunity.
The mistaken prince who looks for friendship will find a favourite, and in that favourite the
ruin of his affairs.

The people of England are loyal to the House of Hanover, not from a vain preference of one
family to another, but from a conviction that the establishment of that family was necessary
to the support of their civil and religious liberties. This, Sir, is a principle of allegiance
equally solid and rational, fit for Englishmen to adopt, and well worthy of your Majesty's
encouragement. We cannot long be deluded by nominal distinctions. The name of Stuart, of itself,
is only contemptible; armed with the sovereign authority, their principles are formidable.
The prince who imitates their conduct should be warned by their example, and, while he plumes
himself upon the security of his title to the crown, should remember that, as it was acquired
by one revolution, it may be lost by another.

ROBERT BURNS.

(1759-1796.)

XLVI. 16.

    This undoubtedly ranks as one of the noblest satires in our
    literature. It was first published as a broadside, and afterwards
    incorporated in the Kilmarnock and Edinburgh editions.

  Ye high, exalted, virtuous dames,
    Tied up in godly laces,
  Before ye gi'e poor frailty names,
    Suppose a change o' cases;
  A dear loved lad, convenience snug,
    A treacherous inclination--
  But, let me whisper i' your lug[221],
    Ye'er aiblins[222] nae temptation.

[Footnote 216: well-going.]

[Footnote 217: hopper.]

[Footnote 218: idle.]

[Footnote 219: unlucky.]

[Footnote 220: exchange.]

[Footnote 221: ear.]

[Footnote 222: perhaps.]

XLVII. HOLY WILLIE'S PRAYER.

    The hero of this daring exposition of Calvinistic theology was
    William Fisher, a farmer in the neighbourhood of Mauchline, and an
    elder in Mr. Auld's session. He had signalized himself in the
    prosecution of Mr. Hamilton, elsewhere alluded to; and Burns
    appears to have written these verses in retribution of the rancour
    he had displayed on that occasion. Fisher was afterwards convicted
    of appropriating the money collected for the poor. Coming home one
    night from market in a state of intoxication, he fell into a ditch,
    where he was found dead next morning. The poem was first published
    in 1801, along with the "Jolly Beggars".

EPITAPH ON HOLY WILLIE.

  But hear me, sir, de'il as ye are,
    Look something to your credit;
  A coof[229] like him wad stain your name,
    If it were kent ye did it.

[Footnote 223: troubled.]

[Footnote 224: cards.]

[Footnote 225: great and small.]

[Footnote 226: row.]

[Footnote 227: wealth.]

[Footnote 228: brimstone.]

[Footnote 229: fool.]

CHARLES LAMB.

(1775-1835.)

XLVIII. A FAREWELL TO TOBACCO.

    Published originally in 1811 in The Reflector, No. 4. As Lamb
    himself states, it was meditated for two years before it was
    committed to paper in 1805, but not published until six years
    afterwards.

THOMAS MOORE.

(1779-1852.)

XLIX. LINES ON LEIGH HUNT.

    Suggested by Hunt's Byron and his Contemporaries.

  Next week will be published (as "Lives" are the rage)
    The whole Reminiscences, wondrous and strange,
  Of a small puppy-dog that lived once in the cage
    Of the late noble lion at Exeter 'Change.

  Though the dog is a dog of the kind they call "sad",
    'Tis a puppy that much to good breeding pretends;
  And few dogs have such opportunities had
    Of knowing how lions behave--among friends.

  How that animal eats, how he moves, how he drinks,
    Is all noted down by this Boswell so small;
  And 'tis plain, from each sentence, the puppy-dog thinks
    That the lion was no such great things after all.

  Though he roar'd pretty well--this the puppy allows--
    It was all, he says, borrow'd--all second-hand roar;
  And he vastly prefers his own little bow-wows
    To the loftiest war-note the lion could pour.

  'Tis indeed as good fun as a cynic could ask,
    To see how this cockney-bred setter of rabbits
  Takes gravely the lord of the forest to task,
    And judges of lions by puppy-dog habits.

  Nay, fed as he was (and this makes it a dark case)
    With sops every day from the lion's own pan,
  He lifts up his leg at the noble beast's carcase,
    And--does all a dog, so diminutive, can.

  However the book's a good book, being rich in
    Examples and warnings to lions high-bred,
  How they suffer small mongrelly curs in their kitchen,
    Who'll feed on them living, and foul them when dead.

GEORGE CANNING.

(1770-1827.)

L. EPISTLE FROM LORD BORINGDON TO LORD GRANVILLE.

    Published in Fugitive Verses, and thence included among Canning's
    works.

  Oft you have ask'd me, Granville, why
  Of late I heave the frequent sigh?
  Why, moping, melancholy, low,
  From supper, commons, wine, I go?
  Why bows my mind, by care oppress'd,
  By day no peace, by night no rest?
  Hear, then, my friend, and ne'er you knew
  A tale so tender, and so true--
  Hear what, tho' shame my tongue restrain,
  My pen with freedom shall explain.
    Say, Granville, do you not remember,
  About the middle of November,
  When Blenheim's hospitable lord
  Received us at his cheerful board;
  How fair the Ladies Spencer smiled,
  Enchanting, witty, courteous, mild?
  And mark'd you not, how many a glance
  Across the table, shot by chance
  From fair Eliza's graceful form,
  Assail'd and took my heart by storm?
  And mark'd you not, with earnest zeal,
  I ask'd her, if she'd have some veal?
  And how, when conversation's charms
  Fresh vigour gave to love's alarms,
  My heart was scorch'd, and burnt to tinder,
  When talking to her at the winder?
  These facts premised, you can't but guess
  The cause of my uneasiness,
  For you have heard, as well as I,
  That she'll be married speedily;
  And then--my grief more plain to tell--
  Soft cares, sweet fears, fond hopes,--farewell!
  But still, tho' false the fleeting dream,
  Indulge awhile the tender theme,
  And hear, had fortune yet been kind,
  How bright the prospect of the mind.
  O! had I had it in my power
  To wed her--with a suited dower--
  And proudly bear the beauteous maid
  To Saltrum's venerable shade,--
  Or if she liked not woods at Saltrum,
  Why, nothing easier than to alter 'em,--
  Then had I tasted bliss sincere,
  And happy been from year to year.
  How changed this scene! for now, my Granville,
  Another match is on the anvil.
  And I, a widow'd dove, complain,
  And feel no refuge from my pain--
  Save that of pitying Spencer's sister,
  Who's lost a lord, and gained a Mister.

LI. REFORMATION OF THE KNAVE OF HEARTS.

    This is an exquisite satire on the attempts at criticism which were
    current in pre-Edinburgh Review days, when the majority of the
    journals were mere touts for the booksellers. The papers in
    question are taken from Nos. 11 and 12 of the Microcosm,
    published on Monday, February 12th, 1787--when Canning was
    seventeen years of age.

The epic poem on which I shall ground my present critique has for its chief characteristics
brevity and simplicity. The author--whose name I lament that I am, in some degree, prevented
from consecrating to immortal fame, by not knowing what it is--the author, I say, has not branched
his poem into excrescences of episode, or prolixities of digression; it is neither variegated
with diversity of unmeaning similitudes, nor glaring with the varnish of unnatural metaphor.
The whole is plain and uniform; so much so, indeed, that I should hardly be surprised if some
morose readers were to conjecture that the poet had been thus simple rather from necessity
than choice; that he had been restrained, not so much by chastity of judgment, as sterility
of imagination.

Nay, some there may be, perhaps, who will dispute his claim to the title of an epic poet, and
will endeavour to degrade him even to the rank of a ballad-monger. But I, as his commentator,
will contend for the dignity of my author, and will plainly demonstrate his poem to be an epic
poem, agreeable to the example of all poets, and the consent of all critics heretofore.

First, it is universally agreed that an epic poem should have three component parts--a beginning,
a middle, and an end; secondly, it is allowed that it should have one grand action or main
design, to the forwarding of which all the parts of it should directly or indirectly tend,
and that this design should be in some measure consonant with, and conducive to, the purposes
of morality; and thirdly, it is indisputably settled that it should have a hero. I trust that
in none of these points the poem before us will be found deficient. There are other inferior
properties which I shall consider in due order.

Not to keep my readers longer in suspense, the subject of the poem is "The Reformation of the
Knave of Hearts". It is not improbable that some may object to me that a knave is an unworthy
hero for an epic poem--that a hero ought to be all that is great and good. The objection is
frivolous. The greatest work of this kind that the world has ever produced has "the Devil"
for its hero; and supported as my author is by so great a precedent, I contend that his hero
is a very decent hero, and especially as he has the advantage of Milton's, by reforming, at
the end, is evidently entitled to a competent share of celebrity.

I shall now proceed to the more immediate examination of the poem in its different parts. The
beginning, say the critics, ought to be plain and simple--neither embellished with the flowers
of poetry, nor turgid with pomposity of diction. In this how exactly does our author conform
to the established opinion! He begins thus:

     "The Queen of Hearts
      She made some tarts".

Can anything be more clear! more natural! more agreeable to the true spirit of simplicity?
Here are no tropes, no figurative expressions, not even so much as an invocation to the Muse.
He does not detain his readers by any needless circumlocution, by unnecessarily informing them
what he is going to sing, or still more unnecessarily enumerating what he is not going to sing;
but, according to the precept of Horace:--

                           In médias res,
      Non secus ac notas, auditorem rapit--

That is, he at once introduces us and sets us on the most easy and familiar footing imaginable
with her Majesty of Hearts, and interests us deeply in her domestic concerns. But to proceed--

     "The Queen of Hearts
      She made some tarts,
      All on a summer's day".

Here indeed the prospect brightens, and we are led to expect some liveliness of imagery, some
warmth of poetical colouring; but here is no such thing. There is no task more difficult to
a poet than that of rejection. Ovid among the ancients, and Dryden among the moderns, were
perhaps the most remarkable for the want of it. The latter, from the haste in which he generally
produced his compositions, seldom paid much attention to the limæ labor, "the labour of correction",
and seldom, therefore, rejected the assistance of any idea that presented itself. Ovid, not
content with catching the leading features of any scene or character, indulged himself in a
thousand minutiæ of description, a thousand puerile prettinesses, which were in themselves
uninteresting, and took off greatly from the effect of the whole; as the numberless suckers
and straggling branches of a fruit-tree, if permitted to shoot out unrestrained, while they
are themselves barren and useless, diminish considerably the vigour of the parent stock. Ovid
had more genius but less judgment than Virgil; Dryden more imagination but less correctness
than Pope; had they not been deficient in these points the former would certainly have equalled,
the latter infinitely outshone the merits of his countryman. Our author was undoubtedly possessed
of that power which they wanted, and was cautious not to indulge too far the sallies of a lively
imagination. Omitting, therefore, any mention of sultry Sirius, sylvan shade, sequestered glade,
verdant hills, purling rills, mossy mountains, gurgling fountains, &c., he simply tells us
that it was "All on a summer's day". For my own part I confess that I find myself rather flattered
than disappointed, and consider the poet as rather paying a compliment to the abilities of
his readers, than baulking their expectations. It is certainly a great pleasure to see a picture
well painted; but it is a much greater to paint it well oneself. This, therefore, I look upon
as a stroke of excellent management in the poet. Here every reader is at liberty to gratify
his own taste, to design for himself just what sort of "summer's day" he likes best; to choose
his own scenery, dispose his lights and shades as he pleases, to solace himself with a rivulet
or a horse-pond, a shower or a sunbeam, a grove or a kitchen-garden, according to his fancy.
How much more considerate this than if the poet had, from an affected accuracy of description,
thrown us into an unmannerly perspiration by the heat of the atmosphere, forced us into a landscape
of his own planning, with perhaps a paltry good-for-nothing zephyr or two, and a limited quantity
of wood and water. All this Ovid would undoubtedly have done. Nay, to use the expression of
a learned brother commentator--quovis pignore decertem, "I would lay any wager", that he would
have gone so far as to tell us what the tarts were made of, and perhaps wandered into an episode
on the art of preserving cherries. But our poet, above such considerations, leaves every reader
to choose his own ingredients, and sweeten them to his own liking; wisely foreseeing, no doubt,
that the more palatable each had rendered them to his own taste, the more he would be affected
at their approaching loss.

     "All on a summer's day."

I cannot leave this line without remarking that one of the Scribleri, a descendant of the famous
Martinus, has expressed his suspicions of the text being corrupted here, and proposes instead
of "all on" reading "alone", alleging, in favour of this alteration, the effect of solitude
in raising the passions. But Hiccius Doctius, a high Dutch commentator, one nevertheless well
versed in British literature, in a note of his usual length and learning, has confuted the
arguments of Scriblerus. In support of the present reading he quotes a passage from a poem
written about the same period with our author's, by the celebrated Johannes Pastor[230], intituled
"An Elegiac Epistle to the Turnkey of Newgate", wherein the gentleman declares that, rather
indeed in compliance with an old custom than to gratify any particular wish of his own, he
is going--

     "All hanged for to be
      Upon that fatal Tyburn tree ".

Now, as nothing throws greater light on an author than the concurrence of a contemporary writer,
I am inclined to be of Hiccius' opinion, and to consider the "All" as an elegant expletive,
or, as he more aptly phrases it elegans expletivum. The passage therefore must stand thus:--

     "The Queen of Hearts
      She made some tarts
      All on a summer's day."

And thus ends the first part, or beginning, which is simple and unembellished, opens the subject
in a natural and easy manner, excites, but does not too far gratify our curiosity, for a reader
of accurate observation may easily discover that the hero of the poem has not, as yet, made
his appearance.

I could not continue my examination at present through the whole of this poem without far exceeding
the limits of a single paper. I have therefore divided it into two, but shall not delay the
publication of the second to another week, as that, besides breaking the connection of criticism,
would materially injure the unities of the poem.

Having thus gone through the first part, or beginning of the poem, we may, naturally enough,
proceed to the consideration of the second.

The second part, or middle, is the proper place for bustle and business, for incident and adventure:--

     "The Knave of Hearts
      He stole those tarts".

Here attention is awakened, and our whole souls are intent upon the first appearance of the
hero. Some readers may perhaps be offended at his making his entree in so disadvantageous a
character as that of a thief. To this I plead precedent.

The hero of the Iliad, as I observed in a former paper, is made to lament very pathetically
that "life is not like all other possessions, to be acquired by theft". A reflection, in my
opinion, evidently showing that, if he did refrain from the practice of this ingenious art,
it was not from want of an inclination that way. We may remember, too, that in Virgil's poem
almost the first light in which the pious Æneas appears to us is a deer-stealer; nor is it
much excuse for him that the deer were wandering without keepers, for however he might, from
this circumstance, have been unable to ascertain whose property they were, he might, I think,
have been pretty well assured that they were not his.

Having thus acquitted our hero of misconduct, by the example of his betters, I proceed to what
I think the master-stroke of the poet.

     "The Knave of Hearts
      He stole those tarts,
   And--took them--quite away!!"

Here, whoever has an ear for harmony and a heart for feeling must be touched! There is a desponding
melancholy in the run of the last line! an air of tender regret in the addition of "quite away!"
a something so expressive of irrecoverable loss! so forcibly intimating the Ad nunquam reditura!
"They never can return!" in short, such an union of sound and sense as we rarely, if ever,
meet with in any author, ancient or modern. Our feelings are all alive, but the poet, wisely
dreading that our sympathy with the injured Queen might alienate our affections from his hero,
contrives immediately to awaken our fears for him by telling us that--

     "The King of Hearts
      Called for those tarts".

We are all conscious of the fault of our hero, and all tremble with him, for the punishment
which the enraged monarch may inflict:

     "And beat the Knave full sore!"

The fatal blow is struck! We cannot but rejoice that guilt is justly punished, though we sympathize
with the guilty object of punishment. Here Scriblerus, who, by the by, is very fond of making
unnecessary alterations, proposes reading "score" instead of "sore", meaning thereby to particularize
that the beating bestowed by this monarch consisted of twenty stripes. But this proceeds from
his ignorance of the genius of our language, which does not admit of such an expression as
"full score", but would require the insertion of the particle "a", which cannot be, on account
of the metre. And this is another great artifice of the poet. By leaving the quantity of beating
indeterminate, he gives every reader the liberty to administer it, in exact proportion to the
sum of indignation which he may have conceived against his hero, that by thus amply satisfying
their resentment they may be the more easily reconciled to him afterwards.

Here ends the second part, or middle of the poem, in which we see the character and exploits
of the hero portrayed with the hand of a master.

Nothing now remains to be examined but the third part, or end. In the end it is a rule pretty
well established that the work should draw towards a conclusion, which our author manages thus:--

     "The Knave of Hearts
      Brought back those tarts".

Here everything is at length settled; the theft is compensated, the tarts restored to their
right owner, and poetical justice, in every respect, strictly and impartially administered.

We may observe that there is nothing in which our poet has better succeeded than in keeping
up an unremitted attention in his readers to the main instruments, the machinery of his poem,
viz. the tarts; insomuch that the afore-mentioned Scriblerus has sagely observed that "he can't
tell, but he doesn't know, but the tarts may be reckoned the heroes of the poem". Scriblerus,
though a man of learning, and frequently right in his opinion, has here certainly hazarded
a rash conjecture. His arguments are overthrown entirely by his great opponent, Hiccius, who
concludes by triumphantly asking, "Had the tarts been eaten, how could the poet have compensated
for the loss of his heroes?"

We are now come to the dénouement, the setting all to rights: and our poet, in the management
of his moral, is certainly superior to his great ancient predecessors. The moral of their fables,
if any they have, is so interwoven with the main body of their work, that in endeavouring to
unravel it we should tear the whole. Our author has very properly preserved his whole and entire
for the end of his poem, where he completes his main design, the reformation of his hero, thus--

     "And vowed he'd steal no more".

Having in the course of his work shown the bad effects arising from theft, he evidently means
this last moral reflection to operate with his readers as a gentle and polite dissuasive from
stealing.

       "The Knave of Hearts
        Brought back those tarts,
      And vowed he'd steal no more!"

Thus have I industriously gone through the several parts of this wonderful work, and clearly
proved it, in every one of these parts, and in all of them together, to be a "due and proper
epic poem", and to have as good a right to that title, from its adherence to prescribed rules,
as any of the celebrated masterpieces of antiquity. And here I cannot help again lamenting
that, by not knowing the name of the author, I am unable to twine our laurels together, and
to transmit to posterity the mingled praises of genius and judgment, of the poet and his commentator.

[Footnote 230: More commonly known, I believe, by the appellation of Jack Shepherd.]

POETRY OF THE ANTI-JACOBIN.

(1797-1798.)

LII. THE FRIEND OF HUMANITY AND THE KNIFE-GRINDER.

    The Anti-Jacobin was planned by George Canning when he was
    Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He secured the
    collaboration of George Ellis, John Hookham Frere, William Gifford,
    and some others. The last-named was appointed working editor. The
    first number appeared on the 20th November, 1797, with a notice
    that "the publication would be continued every Monday during the
    sitting of Parliament". A volume of the best pieces, entitled The
    Poetry of the Anti-Jacobin, was published in 1800. It is almost
    impossible to apportion accurately the various pieces to their
    respective authors, though more than one attempt has been made so
    to do. The following piece is designed to ridicule the extravagant
    sympathy for the lower classes which was then the fashion. SONG BY ROGERO THE CAPTIVE.

    This is a satirical imitation of many of the songs current in the
    romantic dramas of the period. It is contained in the Rovers, or
    the Double Arrangement, act i. sc. 2, a skit upon the dramatic
    literature of the day.
    [At the repetition of this line Rogero clanks
      his chain in cadence.

    [During the last stanza Rogero dashes his head
      repeatedly against the walls of his prison;
      and, finally, so hard as to produce a visible
      contusion. He then throws himself on the
      floor in an agony. The curtain drops--the
      music still continuing to play till it is wholly
      fallen.

COLERIDGE AND SOUTHEY.

(1772-1834.)  (1774-1843.)

LIV. THE DEVIL'S WALK.

    Originally written in an album belonging to one of the Misses
    Fricker, the ladies whom the two poets married. What was the extent
    of the collaboration of the respective writers in the poem is
    unknown, but the fact is beyond a doubt that it was written by them
    in conjunction.

  And how, then, was the Devil drest?
  Oh, he was in his Sunday best;
  His jacket was red, and his breeches were blue,
  And there was a hole where his tail came through.

  He went into a rich bookseller's shop,
  Quoth he! we are both of one college,
  For I myself sate like a cormorant once,
  Fast by the tree of knowledge.

  As he went through Cold-Bath Fields he saw
  A solitary cell;
  And the Devil was pleased, for it gave him a hint
  For improving his prisons in hell.

SYDNEY SMITH.

(1771-1845.)

LV. THE LETTERS OF PETER PLYMLEY--ON "NO POPERY".

    In 1807 the Letters of Peter Plymley to his brother Abraham on
    the subject of the Irish Catholics were published. The example of his
    satiric force and sarcastic ratiocination cited below is the Second
    Letter in the Series.

JAMES SMITH.

(1775-1839.)

LVI. THE POET OF FASHION.

    From the famous Rejected Addresses.

  His book is successful, he's steeped in renown,
  His lyric effusions have tickled the town;
  Dukes, dowagers, dandies, are eager to trace
  The fountain of verse in the verse-maker's face:
  While, proud as Apollo, with peers tête-à-tête,
  From Monday till Saturday dining off plate,
  His heart full of hope, and his head full of gain,
  The Poet of Fashion dines out in Park Lane.

  Now lean-jointured widows who seldom draw corks,
  Whose tea-spoons do duty for knives and for forks,
  Send forth, vellum-covered, a six-o'clock card,
  And get up a dinner to peep at the bard;
  Veal, sweetbread, boiled chickens, and tongue crown the cloth,
  And soup à la reine, little better than broth.
  While, past his meridian, but still with some heat,
  The Poet of Fashion dines out in Sloane Street,

  Enrolled in the tribe who subsist by their wits,
  Remember'd by starts, and forgotten by fits,
  Now artists and actors, the bardling engage,
  To squib in the journals, and write for the stage.
  Now soup à la reine bends the knee to ox-cheek,
  And chickens and tongue bow to bubble-and-squeak.
  While, still in translation employ'd by "the Row"
  The Poet of Fashion dines out in Soho.

  Pushed down from Parnassus to Phlegethon's brink,
  Toss'd, torn, and trunk-lining, but still with some ink,
  Now squat city misses their albums expand,
  And woo the worn rhymer for "something off-hand";
  No longer with stinted effrontery fraught,
  Bucklersbury now seeks what St. James's once sought,
  And (O, what a classical haunt for a bard!)
  The Poet of Fashion dines out in Barge-yard.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR.

(1775-1864.)

LVII. BOSSUET AND THE DUCHESS OF FONTANGES.

    This is taken from Landor's Imaginary Conversations, and is one
    of the best examples of his light, airy, satiric vein.

Bossuet. Mademoiselle, you quite mistake the matter.

Fontanges.

(1788-1824.)

LVIII. THE VISION OF JUDGMENT.

    The Vision of Judgment appeared in 1822, and created a great
    sensation owing to its terrible attack on George III., as well as
    its ridicule of Southey, of whose long-forgotten Vision of
    Judgment this is a parody.

  II.

  III.

  The guardian seraphs had retired on high,
    Finding their charges past all care below;
  Terrestrial business fill'd nought in the sky
    Save the recording angel's black bureau;
  Who found, indeed, the facts to multiply
    With such rapidity of vice and woe,
  That he had stripp'd off both his wings in quills,
  And yet was in arrear of human ills.

  IV.

  His business so augmented of late years,
    That he was forced, against his will no doubt
  (Just like those cherubs, earthly ministers),
    For some resource to turn himself about,
  And claim the help of his celestial peers,
    To aid him ere he should be quite worn out
  By the increased demand for his remarks:
  Six angels and twelve saints were named his clerks.

  V.

  This was a handsome board--at least for heaven;
    And yet they had even then enough to do,
  So many conquerors' cars were daily driven,
    So many kingdoms fitted up anew;
  Each day, too, slew its thousands six or seven,
    Till at the crowning carnage, Waterloo,
  They threw their pens down in divine disgust,
  The page was so besmear'd with blood and dust.

  VI.

  This by the way; 'tis not mine to record
    What angels shrink from: even the very devil
  On this occasion his own work abhorr'd,
    So surfeited with the infernal revel:
  Though he himself had sharpen'd every sword,
    It almost quench'd his innate thirst of evil.
  (Here Satan's sole good work deserves insertion--
  'Tis that he has both generals in reversion.)

  VII.

  Let's skip a few short years of hollow peace,
    Which peopled earth no better, hell as wont,
  And heaven none--they form the tyrant's lease,
    With nothing but new names subscribed upon't:
  'Twill one day finish: meantime they increase,
    "With seven heads and ten horns", and all in front,
  Like Saint John's foretold beast; but ours are born
  Less formidable in the head than horn.

  VIII.

  In the first year of freedom's second dawn
    Died George the Third; although no tyrant, one
  Who shielded tyrants, till each sense withdrawn
    Left him nor mental nor external sun:
  A better farmer ne'er brush'd dew from lawn,
    A worse king never left a realm undone!
  He died--but left his subjects still behind,
  One half as mad--and t'other no less blind.

  IX.

  He died! his death made no great stir on earth:
    His burial made some pomp: there was profusion
  Of velvet, gilding, brass, and no great dearth
    Of aught but tears--save those shed by collusion.
  For these things may be bought at their true worth;
    Of elegy there was the due infusion--
  Bought also; and the torches, cloaks, and banners,
  Heralds, and relics of old Gothic manners,

  X.

  Form'd a sepulchral mélodrame. Of all
    The fools who flock'd to swell or see the show,
  Who cared about the corpse? The funeral
    Made the attraction, and the black the woe,
  There throbb'd not there a thought which pierced the pall;
    And when the gorgeous coffin was laid low,
  It seem'd the mockery of hell to fold
  The rottenness of eighty years in gold.

  XI.

  So mix his body with the dust! It might
    Return to what it must far sooner, were
  The natural compound left alone to fight
    Its way back into earth, and fire, and air,
  But the unnatural balsams merely blight
    What nature made him at his birth, as bare
  As the mere million's base unmummied clay--
  Yet all his spices but prolong decay.

  XII.

  He's dead--and upper earth with him has done;
    He's buried; save the undertaker's bill,
  Or lapidary's scrawl, the world has gone
    For him, unless he left a German will.
  But where's the proctor who will ask his son?
    In whom his qualities are reigning still,
  Except that household virtue, most uncommon,
  Of constancy to a bad, ugly woman.

  XIII.

  "God save the King!" It is a large economy
    In God to save the like; but if He will
  Be saving, all the better; for not one am I
    Of those who think damnation better still;
  I hardly know, too, if not quite alone am I
    In this small hope of bettering future ill
  By circumscribing, with some slight restriction,
  The eternity of hell's hot jurisdiction.

  XIV.

  I know this is unpopular; I know
    'Tis blasphemous; I know one may be damn'd
  For hoping no one else may e'er be so;
    I know my catechism: I know we 're cramm'd
  With the best doctrines till we quite o'erflow;
    I know that all save England's church have shamm'd;
  And that the other twice two hundred churches
  And synagogues have made a damn'd bad purchase.

  XV.

  God help us all! God help me too! I am,
    God knows, as helpless as the devil can wish,
  And not a whit more difficult to damn,
    Than is to bring to land a late-hooked fish,
  Or to the butcher to purvey the lamb;
    Not that I'm fit for such a noble dish,
  As one day will be that immortal fry
  Of almost everybody born to die.

  XVI.

  Saint Peter sat by the celestial gate,
    And nodded o'er his keys; when lo! there came
  A wondrous noise he had not heard of late--
    A rushing sound of wind, and stream, and flame;
  In short, a roar of things extremely great,
    Which would have made all save a saint exclaim;
  But he, with first a start and then a wink,
  Said, "There's another star gone out, I think!"

  XVII.

  But ere he could return to his repose,
    A cherub flapp'd his right wing o'er his eyes--
  At which Saint Peter yawn'd and rubb'd his nose;
    "Saint porter," said the angel, "prithee rise!"
  Waving a goodly wing, which glow'd, as glows
    An earthly peacock's tail, with heavenly dyes;
  To which the Saint replied, "Well, what's the matter?
  Is Lucifer come back with all this clatter?"

  XVIII.

  "No," quoth the cherub; "George the Third is dead."
    "And who is George the Third?" replied the apostle;
  "What George? What Third?" "The King of England," said
    The angel. "Well, he won't find kings to jostle
  Him on his way; but does he wear his head?
    Because the last we saw here had a tussle,
  And ne'er would have got into heaven's good graces,
  Had he not flung his head in all our faces.

  XIX.

  "He was, if I remember, King of France,
    That head of his, which could not keep a crown
  On earth, yet ventured in my face to advance
    A claim to those of martyrs--like my own.
  If I had had my sword, as I had once
    When I cut ears off, I had cut him down;
  But having but my keys, and not my brand,
  I only knock'd his head from out his hand.

  XX.

  "And then he set up such a headless howl,
    That all the saints came out and took him in;
  And there he sits by St. Paul, cheek by jowl;
    That fellow Paul--the parvenu! The skin
  Of Saint Bartholomew, which makes his cowl
    In heaven, and upon earth redeem'd his sin
  So as to make a martyr, never sped
  Better than did that weak and wooden head.

  XXI.

  "But had it come up here upon its shoulders,
    There would have been a different tale to tell;
  The fellow-feeling in the saints' beholders
    Seems to have acted on them like a spell;
  And so this very foolish head heaven solders
    Back on its trunk: it may be very well,
  And seems the custom here to overthrow
  Whatever has been wisely done below."

  XXII.

  The angel answer'd, "Peter! do not pout:
    The king who comes has head and all entire,
  And never knew much what it was about--
    He did as doth the puppet--by its wire,
  And will be judged like all the rest, no doubt:
    My business and your own is not to inquire
  Into such matters, but to mind our cue--
  Which is to act as we are bid to do."

  XXIII.

  While thus they spake, the angelic caravan,
    Arriving like a rush of mighty wind,
  Cleaving the fields of space, as doth the swan
    Some silver stream (say Ganges, Nile, or Inde,
  Or Thames, or Tweed), and 'midst them an old man
    With an old soul, and both extremely blind,
  Halted before the gate, and in his shroud
  Seated their fellow-traveller on a cloud.

  XXIV.

  But bringing up the rear of this bright host,
    A Spirit of a different aspect waved
  His wings, like thunder-clouds above some coast
    Whose barren beach with frequent wrecks is paved;
  His brow was like the deep when tempest-toss'd;
    Fierce and unfathomable thoughts engraved
  Eternal wrath on his immortal face,
  And where he gazed, a gloom pervaded space.

  XXV.

  As he drew near, he gazed upon the gate
    Ne'er to be enter'd more by him or Sin,
  With such a glance of supernatural hate,
    As made St. Peter wish himself within:
  He patter'd with his keys at a great rate,
    And sweated through his apostolic skin:
  Of course his perspiration was but ichor,
  Or some such other spiritual liquor.

  XXVI.

  The very cherubs huddled all together,
    Like birds when soars the falcon; and they felt
  A tingling to the tip of every feather,
    And form'd a circle like Orion's belt
  Around their poor old charge; who scarce knew whither
    His guards had led him, though they gently dealt
  With royal manes (for by many stories,
  And true, we learn the angels all are Tories).

  XXVII.

  As things were in this posture, the gate flew
    Asunder, and the flashing of its hinges
  Flung over space an universal hue
    Of many-color'd flame, until its tinges
  Reach'd even our speck of earth, and made a new
    Aurora Borealis spread its fringes
  O'er the North Pole, the same seen, when ice-bound,
  By Captain Perry's crew, in "Melville's Sound".

  XXVIII.

  And from the gate thrown open issued beaming
    A beautiful and mighty Thing of Light,
  Radiant with glory, like a banner streaming
    Victorious from some world-o'erthrowing fight:
  My poor comparisons must needs be teeming
    With earthly likenesses, for here the night
  Of clay obscures our best conceptions, saving
  Johanna Southcote, or Bob Southey raving.

  XXIX.

  'Twas the archangel Michael: all men know
    The make of angels and archangels, since
  There's scarce a scribbler has not one to show,
    From the fiends' leader to the angels' prince.
  There also are some altar-pieces, though
    I really can't say that they much evince
  One's inner notions of immortal spirits;
  But let the connoisseurs explain their merits.

  XXX.

  Michael flew forth in glory and in good,
    A goodly work of Him from whom all glory
  And good arise: the portal pass'd--he stood
    Before him the young cherubs and saints hoary--
  (I say young, begging to be understood
    By looks, not years, and should be very sorry
  To state, they were not older than St. Peter,
  But merely that they seem'd a little sweeter).

  XXXI.

  The cherubs and the saints bow'd down before
    That archangelic hierarch, the first
  Of essences angelical, who wore
    The aspect of a god; but this ne'er nursed
  Pride in his heavenly bosom, in whose core
    No thought, save for his Maker's service, durst
  Intrude, however glorified and high;
  He knew him but the viceroy of the sky.

  XXXII.

  He and the sombre silent Spirit met--
    They knew each other both for good and ill;
  Such was their power that neither could forget
    His former friend and future foe; but still
  There was a high, immortal, proud regret
    In either's eye, as if't were less their will
  Than destiny to make the eternal years
  Their date of war, and their champ clos the spheres.

  XXXIII.

  But here they were in neutral space: we know
    From Job, that Satan hath the power to pay
  A heavenly visit thrice a year or so;
    And that "the sons of God", like those of clay,
  Must keep him company; and we might show
    From the same book, in how polite a way
  The dialogue is held between the powers
  Of Good and Evil--but 'twould take up hours.

  XXXIV.

  And this is not a theologic tract,
    To prove with Hebrew and with Arabic,
  If Job be allegory or a fact,
    But a true narrative; and thus I pick
  From out the whole but such and such an act,
    As sets aside the slightest thought of trick.
  'Tis every tittle true, beyond suspicion,
  And accurate as any other vision.

LIX. THE WALTZ.

    Published in 1813 and described by its author as an "Apostrophic
    Hymn".

  Muse of the many-twinkling feet! whose charms
  Are now extended up from legs to arms;
  Terpsichore!--too long misdeem'd a maid--
  Reproachful term--bestow'd but to upbraid--
  Henceforth in all the bronze of brightness shine,
  The least a vestal of the virgin Nine.
  Far be from thee and thine the name of prude;
  Mock'd, yet triumphant; sneer'd at, unsubdued;
  Thy legs must move to conquer as they fly,
  If but thy coats are reasonably high;
  Thy breast, if bare enough, requires no shield:
  Dance forth--sans armour thou shalt take the field,
  And own--impregnable to most assaults,
  Thy not too lawfully begotten "Waltz".

  Hail, nimble nymph! to whom the young huzzar,
  The whisker'd votary of waltz and war,
  His night devotes, despite of spurs and boots;
  A sight unmatch'd since Orpheus and his brutes:
  Hail, spirit-stirring Waltz! beneath whose banners
  A modern hero fought for modish manners;
  On Hounslow's heath to rival Wellesley's fame,
  Cock'd, fired, and miss'd his man--but gain'd his aim:
  Hail, moving muse! to whom the fair one's breast
  Gives all it can, and bids us take the rest.
  Oh, for the flow of Busby or of Fitz,
  The latter's loyalty, the former's wits,
  To "energize the object I pursue",
  And give both Belial and his dance their due!

  Imperial Waltz! imported from the Rhine
  (Famed for the growth of pedigree and wine),
  Long be thine import from all duty free,
  And hock itself be less esteem'd than thee;
  In some few qualities alike--for hock
  Improves our cellar--thou our living stock.
  The head to hock belongs--thy subtler art
  Intoxicates alone the heedless heart:
  Through the full veins thy gentler poison swims,
  And wakes to wantonness the willing limbs.

  O Germany! how much to thee we owe,
  As heaven-born Pitt can testify below.
  Ere cursed confederation made thee France's,
  And only left us thy d--d debts and dances!
  Of subsidies and Hanover bereft,
  We bless thee still--for George the Third is left!
  Of kings the best, and last not least in worth,
  For graciously begetting George the Fourth.
  To Germany, and highnesses serene,
  Who owe us millions--don't we owe the queen?
  To Germany, what owe we not besides?
  So oft bestowing Brunswickers and brides:
  Who paid for vulgar, with her royal blood,
  Drawn from the stem of each Teutonic stud;
  Who sent us--so be pardon'd all our faults--
  A dozen dukes, some kings, a queen--and Waltz.

  But peace to her, her emperor and diet,
  Though now transferr'd to Bonaparte's "fiat!"
  Back to thy theme--O Muse of motion! say,
  How first to Albion found thy Waltz her way?

  Borne on thy breath of hyperborean gales
  From Hamburg's port (while Hamburg yet had mails),
  Ere yet unlucky Fame, compelled to creep
  To snowy Gottenburg was chill'd to sleep;
  Or, starting from her slumbers, deign'd arise,
  Heligoland, to stock thy mart with lies;
  While unburnt Moscow yet had news to send,
  Nor owed her fiery exit to a friend.
  She came--Waltz came--and with her certain sets
  Of true despatches, and as true gazettes:
  Then flamed of Austerlitz the blest despatch,
  Which Moniteur nor Morning Post can match;
  And, almost crush'd beneath the glorious news,
  Ten plays, and forty tales of Kotzebue's;
  One envoy's letters, six composers' airs,
  And loads from Frankfort and from Leipsic fairs:
  Meiner's four volumes upon womankind,
  Like Lapland witches to ensure a wind;
  Brunck's heaviest tome for ballast, and, to back it,
  Of Heynè, such as should not sink the packet.

  Fraught with this cargo, and her fairest freight,
  Delightful Waltz, on tiptoe for a mate,
  The welcome vessel reach'd the genial strand,
  And round her flock'd the daughters of the land.
  Not decent David, when, before the ark,
  His grand pas-seul excited some remark,
  Not love-lorn Quixote, when his Sancho thought
  The knight's fandango friskier than it ought;
  Not soft Herodias, when, with winning tread,
  Her nimble feet danced off another's head;
  Not Cleopatra on her galley's deck,
  Display'd so much of leg, or more of neck,
  Than thou ambrosial Waltz, when first the moon
  Beheld thee twirling to a Saxon tune!

  To you, ye husbands of ten years whose brows
  Ache with the annual tributes of a spouse;
  To you of nine years less, who only bear
  The budding sprouts of those that you shall wear,
  With added ornaments around them roll'd
  Of native brass, or law-awarded gold:
  To you, ye matrons, ever on the watch
  To mar a son's, or make a daughter's match;
  To you, ye children of--whom chance accords--
  Always the ladies, and sometimes their lords;
  To you, ye single gentlemen, who seek
  Torments for life, or pleasures for a week;
  As Love or Hymen your endeavours guide,
  To gain your own, or snatch another's bride;--
  To one and all the lovely stranger came,
  And every ball-room echoes with her name.
  Methinks the glare of yonder chandelier
  Shines much too far, or I am much too near;
  And true, though strange, Waltz whispers this remark,
  "My slippery steps are safest in the dark!"
  But here the Muse with due decorum halts,
  And lends her longest petticoat to Waltz.

  Observant travellers of every time!
  Ye quartos publish'd upon every clime!
  Oh, say, shall dull Romaika's heavy round,
  Fandango's wriggle, or Bolero's bound;
  Can Egypt's Almas--tantalizing group--
  Columbia's caperers to the warlike whoop--
  Can aught from cold Kamschatka to Cape Horn
  With Waltz compare, or after Waltz be borne?
  Ah, no! from Morier's pages down to Galt's,
  Each tourist pens a paragraph for "Waltz".

  Shades of those belles whose reign began of yore,
  With George the Third's--and ended long before!--
  Though in your daughters' daughters yet you thrive,
  Burst from your lead, and be yourselves alive!
  Back to the ball-room speed your spectred host;
  Fools' Paradise is dull to that you lost.
  No treacherous powder bids conjecture quake;
  No stiff-starch'd stays make meddling fingers ache
  (Transferr'd to those ambiguous things that ape
  Goats in their visage, women in their shape):
  No damsel faints when rather closely press'd,
  But more caressing seems when most caress'd;
  Superfluous hartshorn and reviving salts;
  Both banished, by the sovereign cordial, "Waltz".

  Seductive Waltz!--though on thy native shore
  Even Werter's self proclaim'd thee half a whore:
  Werter--to decent vice though much inclined,
  Yet warm, not wanton; dazzled, but not blind--
  Though gentle Genlis, in her strife with Staël,
  Would even proscribe thee from a Paris ball;
  The fashion hails--from countesses to queens,
  And maids and valets waltz behind the scenes;
  Wide and more wide thy witching circle spreads,
  And turns--if nothing else--at least our heads;
  With thee even clumsy cits attempt to bounce,
  And cockneys practise what they can't pronounce.
  Gods! how the glorious theme my strain exalts,
  And rhyme finds partner rhyme in praise of "Waltz!"

  Blest was the time Waltz chose for her début:
  The court, the Regent, like herself, were new,
  New face for friends, for foes some new rewards;
  New ornaments for black and royal guards;
  New laws to hang the rogues that roar'd for bread;
  New coins (most new) to follow those that fled;
  New victories--nor can we prize them less,
  Though Jenky wonders at his own success;
  New wars, because the old succeed so well,
  That most survivors envy those who fell;
  New mistresses--no, old--and yet 'tis true,
  Though they be old, the thing is something new;
  Each new, quite new--(except some ancient tricks),
  New white-sticks, gold-sticks, broom-sticks, all new sticks!
  With vests or ribbons, deck'd alike in hue,
  New troopers strut, new turncoats blush in blue;
  So saith the muse! my ----, what say you?
  Such was the time when Waltz might best maintain
  Her new preferments in this novel reign;
  Such was the time, nor ever yet was such:
  Hoops are no more, and petticoats not much:
  Morals and minuets, virtue and her stays,
  And tell-tale powder--all have had their days.
  The ball begins--the honours of the house
  First duly done by daughter or by spouse,
  Some potentate--or royal or serene--
  With Kent's gay grace, or sapient Glo'ster's mien,
  Leads forth the ready dame, whose rising flush
  Might once have been mistaken for a blush,
  From where the garb just leaves the bosom free,
  That spot where hearts were once supposed to be;
  Round all the confines of the yielded waist,
  The stranger's hand may wander undisplaced;
  The lady's in return may grasp as much
  As princely paunches offer to her touch.
  Thus front to front the partners move or stand,
  The foot may rest, but none withdraw the hand;
  And all in turn may follow in their rank,
  The Earl of--Asterisk--and Lady--Blank;
  Sir--Such-a-one--with those of fashion's host,
  For whose blest surnames--vide Morning Post
  (Or if for that impartial print too late,
  Search Doctors' Commons six months from my date)--
  Thus all and each, in movement swift or slow,
  The genial contact gently undergo;
  Till some might marvel, with the modest Turk,
  If "nothing follows all this palming work".
  True, honest Mirza!--you may trust my rhyme--
  Something does follow at a fitter time;
  The breast thus publicly resign'd to man
  In private may resist him--if it can.

  O ye who loved our grandmothers of yore,
  Fitzpatrick, Sheridan, and many more!
  And thou, my prince! whose sovereign taste and will
  It is to love the lovely beldames still!
  Thou ghost of Queensbury! whose judging sprite
  Satan may spare to peep a single night,
  Pronounce--if ever in your days of bliss
  Asmodeus struck so bright a stroke as this;
  To teach the young ideas how to rise,
  Flush in the cheek, and languish in the eyes;
  Rush to the heart, and lighten through the frame,
  With half-told wish and ill-dissembled flame;
  For prurient nature still will storm the breast--
  Who, tempted thus, can answer for the rest?

  But ye, who never felt a single thought,
  For what our morals are to be, or ought;
  Who wisely wish the charms you view to reap,
  Say--would you make those beauties quite so cheap?
  Hot from the hands promiscuously applied,
  Round the slight waist, or down the glowing side,
  Where were the rapture then to clasp the form
  From this lewd grasp and lawless contact warm?
  At once love's most endearing thought resign,
  To press the hand so press'd by none but thine;
  To gaze upon that eye which never met
  Another's ardent look without regret;
  Approach the lip which all, without restraint,
  Come near enough--if not to touch--to taint;
  If such thou lovest--love her then no more,
  Or give--like her--caresses to a score;
  Her mind with these is gone, and with it go
  The little left behind it to bestow.

  Voluptuous Waltz! and dare I thus blaspheme?
  The bard forgot thy praises were his theme.
  Terpsichore, forgive!--at every ball
  My wife now waltzes--and my daughters shall;
  My son--(or stop--'tis needless to inquire--
  These little accidents should ne'er transpire;
  Some ages hence our genealogic tree
  Will wear as green a bough for him as me)--
  Waltzing shall rear, to make our name amends,
  Grandsons for me--in heirs to all his friends.

LX. "THE DEDICATION" IN DON JUAN.

    Southey as Poet Laureate was a favourite target for satirical quips
    and cranks on the part of Byron. This "Dedication" was not
    published until after the author's death.

  I.

  Bob Southey! You're a poet--Poet-laureate,
    And representative of all the race;
  Although 'tis true that you turn'd out a Tory
    Last--yours has lately been a common case--
  And now, my Epic Renegade! what are ye at?
    With all the Lakers, in and out of place?
  A nest of tuneful persons, to my eye
  Like "four-and-twenty Blackbirds in a pie;

  II.

  "Which pie being open'd they began to sing"
    (This old song and new simile holds good),
  "A dainty dish to set before the King",
    Or Regent, who admires such kind of food--
  And Coleridge, too, has lately taken wing,
    But like a hawk encumber'd with his hood--
  Explaining metaphysics to the nation--
  I wish he would explain his Explanation.

  III.

  You, Bob, are rather insolent, you know
    At being disappointed in your wish
  To supersede all warblers here below,
    And be the only blackbird in the dish;
  And then you overstrain yourself, or so,
    And tumble downward like the flying fish
  Gasping on deck, because you soar too high, Bob,
  And fall, for lack of moisture quite a-dry, Bob!

  IV.

  And Wordsworth, in a rather long "Excursion"
    (I think the quarto holds five hundred pages),
  Has given a sample from the vasty version
    Of his new system to perplex the sages;
  'Tis poetry--at least by his assertion,
    And may appear so when the dog-star rages--
  And he who understands it would be able
  To add a story to the Tower of Babel.

  V.

  You--Gentlemen! by dint of long seclusion
    From better company, have kept your own
  At Keswick, and, through still continued fusion
    Of one another's minds, at last have grown
  To deem as a most logical conclusion,
    That Poesy has wreaths for you alone;
  There is a narrowness in such a notion,
  Which makes me wish you'd change your lakes for ocean.

  VI.

  I would not imitate the petty thought,
    Nor coin my self-love to so base a vice,
  For all the glory your conversion brought,
    Since gold alone should not have been its price,
  You have your salary; was't for that you wrought?
    And Wordsworth has his place in the Excise!
  You're shabby fellows--true--but poets still,
  And duly seated on the immortal hill.

  VII.

  Your bays may hide the baldness of your brows--
    Perhaps some virtuous blushes, let them go--
  To you I envy neither fruit nor boughs,
    And for the fame you would engross below,
  The field is universal, and allows
    Scope to all such as feel the inherent glow;
  Scott, Rogers, Campbell, Moore, and Crabbe, will try
  'Gainst you the question with posterity.

  VIII.

  For me, who, wandering with pedestrian Muses,
    Contend not with you on the winged steed,
  I wish your fate may yield ye, when she chooses,
    The fame you envy and the skill you need;
  And recollect a poet nothing loses
    In giving to his brethren their full meed
  Of merit, and complaint of present days
  Is not the certain path to future praise.

  IX.

  He that reserves his laurels for posterity
    (Who does not often claim the bright reversion)
  Has generally no great crop to spare it, he
    Being only injured by his own assertion;
  And although here and there some glorious rarity
    Arise like Titan from the sea's immersion,
  The major part of such appellants go
  To--God knows where--for no one else can know.

  X.

  If, fallen in evil days on evil tongues,
    Milton appealed to the Avenger, Time,
  If Time, the Avenger, execrates his wrongs,
    And makes the word "Miltonic" mean "sublime",
  He deign'd not to belie his soul in songs,
    Nor turn his very talent to a crime;
  He did not loathe the sire to laud the son,
  But closed the tyrant-hater he begun.

  XI.

  Think'st thou, could he--the blind old man--arise,
    Like Samuel from the grave, to freeze once more
  The blood of monarchs with his prophecies,
    Or be alive again--again all hoar
  With time and trials, and those helpless eyes,
    And heartless daughters--worn--and pale--and poor:
  Would he adore a sultan? he obey
  The intellectual eunuch Castlereagh?

  XII.

  Cold-blooded, smooth-faced, placid miscreant!
    Dabbling its sleek young hands in Erin's gore,
  And thus for wider carnage taught to pant,
    Transferr'd to gorge upon a sister shore,
  The vulgarest tool that Tyranny could want,
    With just enough of talent, and no more,
  To lengthen fetters by another fix'd.
  And offer poison long already mix'd.

  XIII.

  An orator of such set trash of phrase
    Ineffably--legitimately vile,
  That even its grossest flatterers dare not praise,
    Nor foes--all nations--condescend to smile;
  Not even a sprightly blunder's spark can blaze
    From that Ixion grindstone's ceaseless toil,
  That turns and turns to give the world a notion
  Of endless torments and perpetual motion.

  XIV.

  A bungler even in its disgusting trade,
    And botching, patching, leaving still behind
  Something of which its masters are afraid,
    States to be curb'd, and thoughts to be confined,
  Conspiracy or Congress to be made--
    Cobbling at manacles for all mankind--
  A tinkering slave-maker, who mends old chains,
  With God and man's abhorrence for its gains.

  XV.

  If we may judge of matter by the mind,
    Emasculated to the marrow It
  Hath but two objects, how to serve, and bind,
    Deeming the chain it wears even men may fit,
  Eutropius of its many masters,--blind
    To worth as freedom, wisdom as to wit,
  Fearless--because no feeling dwells in ice,
  Its very courage stagnates to a vice.

  XVI.

  Where shall I turn me not to view its bonds,
    For I will never feel them:--Italy!
  Thy late reviving Roman soul desponds
    Beneath the lie this State-thing breathed o'er thee--
  Thy clanking chain, and Erin's yet green wounds,
    Have voices--tongues to cry aloud for me.
  Europe has slaves--allies--kings--armies still,
  And Southey lives to sing them very ill.

  XVII.

  Meantime, Sir Laureate, I proceed to dedicate,
    In honest simple verse, this song to you.
  And if in flattering strains I do not predicate,
    'Tis that I still retain my "buff and blue";
  My politics as yet are all to educate:
    Apostasy's so fashionable, too,
  To keep one creed's a task grown quite Herculean:
  Is it not so, my Tory, Ultra-Julian?

VENICE, September 16, 1818.

THOMAS HOOD.

(1798-1845.)

LXI. COCKLE v. CACKLE.

    This is not meant as a "cut" at that standard medicine named
    therein which has wrought such good in its day; but is a satire on
    quack advertising generally. The more worthless the nostrum, the
    more universal the advertising of it, such is the moral of Hood's
    satire.

  Those who much read advertisements and bills,
  Must have seen puffs of Cockle's Pills,
      Call'd Anti-bilious--
  Which some physicians sneer at, supercilious,
  But which we are assured, if timely taken,
      May save your liver and bacon;
  Whether or not they really give one ease,
      I, who have never tried,
      Will not decide;
  But no two things in union go like these--
  Viz.--quacks and pills--save ducks and pease.
  Now Mrs. W. was getting sallow,
  Her lilies not of the white kind, but yellow,
  And friends portended was preparing for
      A human pâté périgord;
  She was, indeed, so very far from well,
  Her son, in filial fear, procured a box
  Of those said pellets to resist bile's shocks,
  And--tho' upon the ear it strangely knocks--
  To save her by a Cockle from a shell!
  But Mrs. W., just like Macbeth,
  Who very vehemently bids us "throw
  Bark to the Bow-wows", hated physic so,
  It seem'd to share "the bitterness of Death":
  Rhubarb--Magnesia--Jalap, and the kind--
  Senna--Steel--Assa-foetida, and Squills--
  Powder or Draught--but least her throat inclined
  To give a course to boluses or pills;
  No--not to save her life, in lung or lobe,
  For all her lights' or all her liver's sake,
  Would her convulsive thorax undertake,
  Only one little uncelestial globe!

  'Tis not to wonder at, in such a case,
  If she put by the pill-box in a place
  For linen rather than for drugs intended--
  Yet for the credit of the pills let's say
      After they thus were stow'd away,
      Some of the linen mended;
  But Mrs. W. by disease's dint,
  Kept getting still more yellow in her tint,
  When lo! her second son, like elder brother,
  Marking the hue on the parental gills,
  Brought a new charge of Anti-tumeric Pills,
  To bleach the jaundiced visage of his mother--
  Who took them--in her cupboard--like the other.

      "Deeper and deeper still", of course,
      The fatal colour daily grew in force;
  Till daughter W. newly come from Rome,
  Acting the self-same filial, pillial, part,
  To cure Mamma, another dose brought home
  Of Cockles;--not the Cockles of her heart!
      These going where the others went before,
      Of course she had a very pretty store;
  And then--some hue of health her cheek adorning,
      The medicine so good must be,
      They brought her dose on dose, which she
  Gave to the up-stairs cupboard, "night and morning".
  Till wanting room at last, for other stocks,
  Out of the window one fine day she pitch'd
  The pillage of each box, and quite enrich'd
  The feed of Mister Burrell's hens and cocks,--
      A little Barber of a by-gone day,
      Over the way
  Whose stock in trade, to keep the least of shops,
  Was one great head of Kemble,--that is, John,
  Staring in plaster, with a Brutus on,
  And twenty little Bantam fowls--with crops.
  Little Dame W. thought when through the sash
      She gave the physic wings,
      To find the very things
  So good for bile, so bad for chicken rash,
  For thoughtless cock, and unreflecting pullet!
  But while they gathered up the nauseous nubbles,
  Each peck'd itself into a peck of troubles,
  And brought the hand of Death upon its gullet.
  They might as well have addled been, or ratted,
  For long before the night--ah woe betide
  The Pills! each suicidal Bantam died
      Unfatted!

      Think of poor Burrel's shock,
  Of Nature's debt to see his hens all payers,
  And laid in death as Everlasting Layers,
  With Bantam's small Ex-Emperor, the Cock,
  In ruffled plumage and funereal hackle,
  Giving, undone by Cockle, a last Cackle!
  To see as stiff as stone, his un'live stock,
  It really was enough to move his block.
  Down on the floor he dash'd, with horror big,
  Mr. Bell's third wife's mother's coachman's wig;
  And with a tragic stare like his own Kemble,
  Burst out with natural emphasis enough,
      And voice that grief made tremble,
  Into that very speech of sad Macduff--
  "What!--all my pretty chickens and their dam,
      At one fell swoop!--
      Just when I'd bought a coop
  To see the poor lamented creatures cram!"

      After a little of this mood,
      And brooding over the departed brood,
  With razor he began to ope each craw,
  Already turning black, as black as coals;
  When lo! the undigested cause he saw--
      "Pison'd by goles!"

  To Mrs. W.'s luck a contradiction,
  Her window still stood open to conviction;
  And by short course of circumstantial labour,
  He fix'd the guilt upon his adverse neighbour;--
  Lord! how he rail'd at her: declaring how,
  He'd bring an action ere next Term of Hilary,
  Then, in another moment, swore a vow,
  He'd make her do pill-penance in the pillory!
  She, meanwhile distant from the dimmest dream
  Of combating with guilt, yard-arm or arm-yard,
  Lapp'd in a paradise of tea and cream;
  When up ran Betty with a dismal scream--
  "Here's Mr. Burrell, ma'am, with all his farmyard!"
  Straight in he came, unbowing and unbending,
      With all the warmth that iron and a barbe
      Can harbour;
  To dress the head and front of her offending,
  The fuming phial of his wrath uncorking;
  In short, he made her pay him altogether,
  In hard cash, very hard, for ev'ry feather,
  Charging of course, each Bantam as a Dorking;
  Nothing could move him, nothing make him supple,
  So the sad dame unpocketing her loss,
  Had nothing left but to sit hands across,
  And see her poultry "going down ten couple".

  Now birds by poison slain,
  As venom'd dart from Indian's hollow cane,
  Are edible; and Mrs. W.'s thrift,--
  She had a thrifty vein,--
  Destined one pair for supper to make shift,--
  Supper as usual at the hour of ten:
  But ten o'clock arrived and quickly pass'd,
  Eleven--twelve--and one o'clock at last,
  Without a sign of supper even then!
  At length the speed of cookery to quicken,
  Betty was called, and with reluctant feet,
      Came up at a white heat--
  "Well, never I see chicken like them chicken!
  My saucepans, they have been a pretty while in 'em!
  Enough to stew them, if it comes to that,
  To flesh and bones, and perfect rags; but drat
  Those Anti-biling Pills! there is no bile in 'em!"

LORD MACAULAY.

(1800-1859.)

LXII. THE COUNTRY CLERGYMAN'S TRIP TO CAMBRIDGE.

    This is one of the numerous jeux d'esprit in which Macaulay, in
    his earlier years, indulged at election times.

WINTHROP MACKWORTH PRAED.

(1802-1839.)

LXIII. THE RED FISHERMAN; OR, THE DEVIL'S DECOY.

    Published in Knight's Annual.

  The Abbot arose, and closed his book,
    And donned his sandal shoon,
  And wandered forth alone, to look
    Upon the summer moon:
  A starlight sky was o'er his head,
    A quiet breeze around;
  And the flowers a thrilling fragrance shed
    And the waves a soothing sound:
  It was not an hour, nor a scene, for aught
    But love and calm delight;
  Yet the holy man had a cloud of thought
    On his wrinkled brow that night.
  He gazed on the river that gurgled by,
    But he thought not of the reeds
  He clasped his gilded rosary,
    But he did not tell the beads;
  If he looked to the heaven, 'twas not to invoke
    The Spirit that dwelleth there;
  If he opened his lips, the words they spoke
    Had never the tone of prayer.
  A pious priest might the Abbot seem,
    He had swayed the crozier well;
  But what was the theme of the Abbot's dream,
    The Abbot were loth to tell.

  Companionless, for a mile or more,
  He traced the windings of the shore.
  But the Abbot was thinking of scenery
    About as much, in sooth,
  As a lover thinks of constancy,
    Or an advocate of truth.
  He did not mark how the skies in wrath
    Grew dark above his head;
  He did not mark how the mossy path
    Grew damp beneath his tread;
  And nearer he came, and still more near,
    To a pool, in whose recess
  The water had slept for many a year,
    Unchanged and motionless;
  From the river stream it spread away
    The space of half a rood;
  The surface had the hue of clay
    And the scent of human blood;
  The trees and the herbs that round it grew
    Were venomous and foul,
  And the birds that through the bushes flew
    Were the vulture and the owl;
  The water was as dark and rank
    As ever a Company pumped,
  And the perch that was netted and laid on the bank
    Grew rotten while it jumped;
  And bold was he who thither came
    At midnight, man or boy,
  For the place was cursed with an evil name,
    And that name was "The Devil's Decoy"!
  'Twas a sight to make the hair uprise,
    And the life-blood colder run:
  The startled Priest struck both his thigh,
    And the abbey clock struck one!

  All alone, by the side of the pool,
  A tall man sat on a three-legged stool,
  Kicking his heels on the dewy sod,
  And putting in order his reel and rod;
  Red were the rags his shoulders wore,
  And a high red cap on his head he bore;
  His arms and his legs were long and bare;
  And two or three locks of long red hair
  Were tossing about his scraggy neck,
  Like a tattered flag o'er a splitting wreck.
  It might be time, or it might be trouble,
  Had bent that stout back nearly double,
  Sunk in their deep and hollow sockets
  That blazing couple of Congreve rockets,
  And shrunk and shrivelled that tawny skin,
  Till it hardly covered the bones within.
  The line the Abbot saw him throw
  Had been fashioned and formed long ages ago,
  And the hands that worked his foreign vest
  Long ages ago had gone to their rest:
  You would have sworn, as you looked on them,
  He had fished in the flood with Ham and Shem!

  There was turning of keys, and creaking of locks,
  As he took forth a bait from his iron box.
  Minnow or gentle, worm or fly,--
  It seemed not such to the Abbot's eye;
  Gaily it glittered with jewel and jem,
  And its shape was the shape of a diadem.
  It was fastened a gleaming hook about
  By a chain within and a chain without;
  The Fisherman gave it a kick and a spin,
  And the water fizzed as it tumbled in!

  From the bowels of the earth,
  Strange and varied sounds had birth;
  Now the battle's bursting peal,
  Neigh of steed, and clang of steel;
  Now an old man's hollow groan
  Echoed from the dungeon stone;
  Now the weak and wailing cry
  Of a stripling's agony!--
  Cold by this was the midnight air;
    But the Abbot's blood ran colder,
  When he saw a gasping knight lie there,
  With a gash beneath his clotted hair,
    And a hump upon his shoulder.
  And the loyal churchman strove in vain
    To mutter a Pater Noster;
  For he who writhed in mortal pain
  Was camped that night on Bosworth plain--
    The cruel Duke of Glo'ster!

  There was turning of keys, and creaking of locks,
  As he took forth a bait from his iron box.
  It was a haunch of princely size,
  Filling with fragrance earth and skies.
  The corpulent Abbot knew full well
  The swelling form, and the steaming smell;
  Never a monk that wore a hood
  Could better have guessed the very wood
  Where the noble hart had stood at bay,
  Weary and wounded, at close of day.

  Sounded then the noisy glee
  Of a revelling company,--
  Sprightly story, wicked jest,
  Rated servant, greeted guest,
  Flow of wine, and flight of cork,
  Stroke of knife, and thrust of fork:
  But, where'er the board was spread,
  Grace, I ween, was never said!--
  Pulling and tugging the Fisherman sat;
    And the Priest was ready to vomit,
  When he hauled out a gentleman, fine and fat,
  With a belly as big as a brimming vat,
    And a nose as red as a comet.
  "A capital stew," the Fisherman said,
    "With cinnamon and sherry!"
  And the Abbot turned away his head,
  For his brother was lying before him dead,
    The Mayor of St. Edmund's Bury!

  There was turning of keys, and creaking of locks,
  As he took forth a bait from his iron box.
  It was a bundle of beautiful things,--
  A peacock's tail and a butterfly's wings,
  A scarlet slipper, an auburn curl,
  A mantle of silk, and a bracelet of pearl,
  And a packet of letters, from whose sweet fold
  Such a stream of delicate odours rolled,
  That the Abbot fell on his face, and fainted,
  And deemed his spirit was half-way sainted.

  Sounds seemed dropping from the skies,
  Stifled whispers, smothered sighs,
  And the breath of vernal gales,
  And the voice of nightingales:
  But the nightingales were mute,
  Envious, when an unseen lute
  Shaped the music of its chords
  Into passion's thrilling words:
  "Smile, Lady, smile!--I will not set
  Upon my brow the coronet,
  Till thou wilt gather roses white
  To wear around its gems of light.
  Smile, Lady, smile!--I will not see
  Rivers and Hastings bend the knee,
  Till those bewitching lips of thine
  Will bid me rise in bliss from mine.
  Smile, Lady, smile!--for who would win
  A loveless throne through guilt and sin?
  Or who would reign o'er vale and hill,
  If woman's heart were rebel still?"

  One jerk, and there a lady lay,
    A lady wondrous fair;
  But the rose of her lip had faded away,
  And her cheek was as white and as cold as clay,
    And torn was her raven hair.
  "Ah ha!" said the Fisher, in merry guise,
    "Her gallant was hooked before;"
  And the Abbot heaved some piteous sighs,
  For oft he had blessed those deep blue eyes,
    The eyes of Mistress Shore!

  There was turning of keys, and creaking of locks,
  As he took forth a bait from his iron box.
  Many the cunning sportsman tried,
  Many he flung with a frown aside;
  A minstrel's harp, and a miser's chest,
  A hermit's cowl, and a baron's crest,
  Jewels of lustre, robes of price,
  Tomes of heresy, loaded dice,
  And golden cups of the brightest wine
  That ever was pressed from the Burgundy vine.
  There was a perfume of sulphur and nitre
  As he came at last to a bishop's mitre!

  From top to toe the Abbot shook,
  As the Fisherman armed his golden hook,
  And awfully were his features wrought
  By some dark dream or wakened thought.
  Look how the fearful felon gazes
  On the scaffold his country's vengeance raises,
  When the lips are cracked and the jaws are dry
  With the thirst which only in death shall die:
  Mark the mariner's frenzied frown
  As the swaling wherry settles down,
  When peril has numbed the sense and will
  Though the hand and the foot may struggle still:
  Wilder far was the Abbot's glance,
  Deeper far was the Abbot's trance:
  Fixed as a monument, still as air,
  He bent no knee, and he breathed no prayer
  But he signed--he knew not why or how--
  The sign of the Cross on his clammy brow.

LXIV. MAD--QUITE MAD.

    Originally published in the Morning Post for 1834; afterwards
    included in his Essays.

      Great wits are sure to madness near allied.--Dryden.

It has frequently been observed that genius and madness are nearly allied; that very great
talents are seldom found unaccompanied by a touch of insanity, and that there are few Bedlamites
who will not, upon a close examination, display symptoms of a powerful, though ruined intellect.
According to this hypothesis, the flowers of Parnassus must be blended with the drugs of Anticyra;
and the man who feels himself to be in possession of very brilliant wits may conclude that
he is within an ace of running out of them. Whether this be true or false, we are not at present
disposed to contradict the assertion. What we wish to notice is the pains which many young
men take to qualify themselves for Bedlam, by hiding a good, sober, gentlemanlike understanding
beneath an assumption of thoughtlessness and whim. It is the received opinion among many that
a man's talents and abilities are to be rated by the quantity of nonsense he utters per diem,
and the number of follies he runs into per annum. Against this idea we must enter our protest;
if we concede that every real genius is more or less a madman, we must not be supposed to allow
that every sham madman is more or less a genius.

In the days of our ancestors, the hot-blooded youth who threw away his fortune at twenty-one,
his character at twenty-two, and his life at twenty-three, was termed "a good fellow", "an
honest fellow", "nobody's enemy but his own". In our time the name is altered; and the fashionable
who squanders his father's estate, or murders his best friend--who breaks his wife's heart
at the gaming-table, and his own neck at a steeple-chase--escapes the sentence which morality
would pass upon him, by the plea of lunacy. "He was a rascal," says Common-Sense. "True," says
the World; "but he was mad, you know--quite mad."

We were lately in company with a knot of young men who were discussing the character and fortunes
of one of their own body, who was, it seems, distinguished for his proficiency in the art of
madness. "Harry," said a young sprig of nobility, "have you heard that Charles is in the King's
Bench?" "I heard it this morning," drawled the Exquisite; "how distressing! I have not been
so hurt since poor Angelica (his bay mare) broke down. Poor Charles has been too flighty."
"His wings will be clipped for the future!" observed young Caustic. "He has been very imprudent,"
said young Candour.

I inquired of whom they were speaking. "Don't you know Charles Gally?" said the Exquisite,
endeavouring to turn in his collar. "Not know Charles Gally?" he repeated, with an expression
of pity. "He is the best fellow breathing; only lives to laugh and make others laugh: drinks
his two bottles with any man, and rides the finest mare I ever saw--next to my Angelica. Not
know Charles Gally? Why, everybody knows him! He is so amusing! Ha! ha! And tells such admirable
stories! Ha! ha! Often have they kept me awake"--a yawn--"when nothing else could." "Poor fellow!"
said his lordship; "I understand he's done for ten thousand!" "I never believe more than half
what the world says," observed Candour. "He that has not a farthing," said Caustic, "cares
little whether he owes ten thousand or five." "Thank Heaven!" said Candour, "that will never
be the case with Charles: he has a fine estate in Leicestershire." "Mortgaged for half its
value," said his lordship. "A large personal property!" "All gone in annuity bills," said the
Exquisite. "A rich uncle upwards of fourscore!" "He'll cut him off with a shilling," said Caustic.

"Let us hope he may reform," sighed the Hypocrite; "and sell the pack," added the Nobleman;
"and marry," continued the Dandy. "Pshaw!" cried the Satirist, "he will never get rid of his
habits, his hounds, or his horns." "But he has an excellent heart," said Candour. "Excellent,"
repeated his lordship unthinkingly. "Excellent," lisped the Fop effeminately. "Excellent,"
exclaimed the Wit ironically. We took this opportunity to ask by what means so excellent a
heart and so bright a genius had contrived to plunge him into these disasters. "He was my friend,"
replied his lordship, "and a man of large property; but he was mad--quite mad. I remember his
leaping a lame pony over a stone wall, simply because Sir Marmaduke bet him a dozen that he
broke his neck in the attempt; and sending a bullet through a poor pedlar's pack because Bob
Darrell said the piece wouldn't carry so far." "Upon another occasion," began the Exquisite,
in his turn, "he jumped into a horse-pond after dinner, in order to prove it was not six feet
deep; and overturned a bottle of eau-de-cologne in Lady Emilia's face, to convince me that
she was not painted. Poor fellow! The first experiment cost him a dress, and the second an
heiress." "I have heard," resumed the Nobleman, "that he lost his election for ---- by lampooning
the mayor; and was dismissed from his place in the Treasury for challenging Lord C----." "The
last accounts I heard of him," said Caustic, "told me that Lady Tarrel had forbid him her house
for driving a sucking-pig into her drawing-room; and that young Hawthorn had run him through
for boasting of favours from his sister!" "These gentlemen are really too severe," remarked
young Candour to us. "Not a jot," we said to ourselves.

"This will be a terrible blow for his sister," said a young man who had been listening in silence.
"A fine girl--a very fine girl," said the Exquisite. "And a fine fortune," said the Nobleman;
"the mines of Peru are nothing to her." "Nothing at all," observed the Sneerer; "she has no
property there. But I would not have you caught, Harry; her income was good, but is dipped,
horribly dipped. Guineas melt very fast when the cards are put by them." "I was not aware Maria
was a gambler," said the young man, much alarmed. "Her brother is, sir," replied his informant.
The querist looked sorry, but yet relieved. We could see that he was not quite disinterested
in his inquiries. "However," resumed the young Cynic, "his profusion has at least obtained
him many noble and wealthy friends." He glanced at his hearers, and went on: "No one that knew
him will hear of his distresses without being forward to relieve them. He will find interest
for his money in the hearts of his friends." Nobility took snuff; Foppery played with his watch-chain;
Hypocrisy looked grave. There was long silence. We ventured to regret the misuse of natural
talents, which, if properly directed, might have rendered their possessor useful to the interests
of society and celebrated in the records of his country. Everyone stared, as if we were talking
Hebrew. "Very true," said his lordship, "he enjoys great talents. No man is a nicer judge of
horseflesh. He beats me at billiards, and Harry at picquet; he's a dead shot at a button, and
can drive his curricle-wheels over a brace of sovereigns." "Radicalism," says Caustic, looking
round for a laugh. "He is a great amateur of pictures," observed the Exquisite, "and is allowed
to be quite a connoisseur in beauty; but there," simpering, "everyone must claim the privilege
of judging for themselves." "Upon my word," said Candour, "you allow poor Charles too little.
I have no doubt he has great courage--though, to be sure, there was a whisper that young Hawthorn
found him rather shy; and I am convinced he is very generous, though I must confess that I
have it from good authority that his younger brother was refused the loan of a hundred when
Charles had pigeoned that fool of a nabob but the evening before. I would stake my existence
that he is a man of unshaken honour--though, when he eased Lieutenant Hardy of his pay, there
certainly was an awkward story about the transaction, which was never properly cleared up.
I hope that when matters are properly investigated he will be liberated from all his embarrassments;
though I am sorry to be compelled to believe that he has been spending double the amount of
his income annually. But I trust that all will be adjusted. I have no doubt upon the subject."
"Nor I," said Caustic. "We shall miss him prodigiously at the Club," said the Dandy, with a
slight shake of the head. "What a bore!" replied the Nobleman, with a long yawn. We could hardly
venture to express compassion for a character so despicable. Our auditors, however, entertained
very different opinions of right and wrong! "Poor fellow! he was much to be pitied: had done
some very foolish things--to say the truth was a sad scoundrel--but then he was always so mad."
And having come unanimously to this decision, the conclave dispersed.

Charles gave an additional proof of his madness within a week after this discussion by swallowing
laudanum. The verdict of the coroner's inquest confirmed the judgment of his four friends.
For our own parts we must pause before we give in to so dangerous a doctrine. Here is a man
who has outraged the laws of honour, the ties of relationship, and the duties of religion:
he appears before us in the triple character of a libertine, a swindler, and a suicide. Yet
his follies, his vices, his crimes, are all palliated or even applauded by this specious façon
de parler--"He was mad--quite mad!"

BENJAMIN DISRAELI (LORD BEACONSFIELD).

(1805-1881.)

LXV. POPANILLA ON MAN.

    This racy piece of satire is taken from Lord Beaconsfield's
    mock-heroic romance--written in imitation of Gulliver's
    Travels,--The Voyage of Captain Popanilla, of which it forms the
    fourth chapter.

(1812-1890.)

LXVI. CRISTINA.

    From Dramatic Lyrics; written in 1842.

  II.

  What? To fix me thus meant nothing? But I can't tell (there's my
          weakness)
  What her look said!--no vile cant, sure, about "need to strew the
          bleakness
  Of some lone shore with its pearl-seed, that the sea feels"--no
          "strange yearning
  That such souls have, most to lavish where there's chance of least
          returning".

  III.

  IV.

  There are flashes struck from midnights, there are fire-flames
          noondays kindle,
  Whereby piled-up honours perish, whereby swollen ambitions dwindle,
  While just this or that poor impulse, which for once had play unstifled,
  Seems the sole work of a life-time that away the rest have trifled.

  V.

  Doubt you if, in some such moment, as she fixed me, she felt clearly,
  Ages past the soul existed, here an age 'tis resting merely,
  And hence fleets again for ages: while the true end, sole and single,
  It stops here for is, this love-way, with some other soul to mingle?

  VI.

  Else it loses what it lived for, and eternally must lose it;
  Better ends may be in prospect, deeper blisses (if you choose it),
  But this life's end and this love-bliss have been lost here. Doubt you
          whether
  This she felt as, looking at me, mine and her souls rushed together?

  VII.

  VIII.

LXVII. THE LOST LEADER.

    From Dramatic Lyrics; written in 1845.

  II.

WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY.

(1811-1863.)

LXVIII. PISCATOR AND PISCATRIX.

    Published among Thackeray's "Ballads" under the sub-heading "Lines
    written to an Album Print".

  As on this pictured page I look,
  This pretty tale of line and hook,
  As though it were a novel-book,
    Amuses and engages:
  I know them both, the boy and girl;
  She is the daughter of the Earl,
  The lad (that has his hair in curl)
    My lord the County's page is.

  A pleasant place for such a pair!
  The fields lie basking in the glare;
  No breath of wind the heavy air
    Of lazy summer quickens.
  Hard by you see the castle tall;
  The village nestles round the wall,
  As round about the hen its small
    Young progeny of chickens.

  It is too hot to pace the keep;
  To climb the turret is too steep;
  My lord the Earl is dozing deep,
    His noonday dinner over:
  The postern warder is asleep
  (Perhaps they've bribed him not to peep):
  And so from out the gate they creep;
    And cross the fields of clover.

  Their lines into the brook they launch;
  He lays his cloak upon a branch,
  To guarantee his Lady Blanche
    's delicate complexion:
  He takes his rapier from his haunch,
  That beardless, doughty champion staunch;
  He'd drill it through the rival's paunch
    That question'd his affection!

  O heedless pair of sportsmen slack!
  You never mark, though trout or jack,
  Or little foolish stickleback,
    Your baited snares may capture.
  What care has she for line and hook?
  She turns her back upon the brook,
  Upon her lover's eyes to look
    In sentimental rapture.

  O loving pair! as thus I gaze
  Upon the girl who smiles always,
  The little hand that ever plays
    Upon the lover's shoulder;
  In looking at your pretty shapes,
  A sort of envious wish escapes
  (Such as the Fox had for the Grapes)
    The Poet, your beholder.

  To be brave, handsome, twenty-two;
  With nothing else on earth to do,
  But all day long to bill and coo:
    It were a pleasant calling.
  And had I such a partner sweet;
  A tender heart for mine to beat,
  A gentle hand my clasp to meet;--
  I'd let the world flow at my feet,
    And never heed its brawling.

LXIX. ON A HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

    This is one of the most popular of the famous Roundabout Papers
    written by Thackeray for the Cornhill Magazine, of which he was
    the first editor.

ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH.

(1819-1861.)

LXX. SPECTATOR AB EXTRA.

  As I sat at the Café I said to myself,
  They may talk as they please about what they call pelf,
  They may sneer as they like about eating and drinking,
  But help it I cannot, I cannot help thinking
      How pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      How pleasant it is to have money.

  I sit at my table en grand seigneur,
  And when I have done, throw a crust to the poor,
  Not only the pleasure itself of good living,
  But also the pleasure of now and then giving:
      So pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So pleasant it is to have money.

  LE DINER.

  Come along, 'tis the time, ten or more minutes past,
  And he who came first had to wait for the last;
  The oysters ere this had been in and been out;
  While I have been sitting and thinking about
      How pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      How pleasant it is to have money.

  A clear soup with eggs; voilà tout; of the fish
  The filets de sole are a moderate dish
  À la Orly, but you're for red mullet, you say:
  By the gods of good fare, who can question to-day
      How pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      How pleasant it is to have money.

  After oysters, Sauterne; then Sherry; Champagne,
  Ere one bottle goes, comes another again;
  Fly up, thou bold cork, to the ceiling above,
  And tell to our ears in the sound that we love
      How pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      How pleasant it is to have money.

  I've the simplest of palates; absurd it may be,
  But I almost could dine on a poulet-au-riz,
  Fish and soup and omelette and that--but the deuce--
  There were to be woodcocks, and not Charlotte Russe!

  As for that, pass the bottle, and hang the expense--
  I've seen it observed by a writer of sense,
  That the labouring classes could scarce live a day,
  If people like us didn't eat, drink, and pay.
      So useful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So useful it is to have money.

  PARVENANT.

  I cannot but ask, in the park and the streets,
  When I look at the number of persons one meets,
  Whate'er in the world the poor devils can do
  Whose fathers and mothers can't give them a sous.
      So needful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So needful it is to have money.

  I ride, and I drive, and I care not a d--n,
  The people look up and they ask who I am;
  And if I should chance to run over a cad,
  I can pay for the damage, if ever so bad.
      So useful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So useful it is to have money.

  It was but this winter I came up to town,
  And already I'm gaining a sort of renown;
  Find my way to good houses without much ado,
  Am beginning to see the nobility too.
      So useful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So useful it is to have money.

  O dear what a pity they ever should lose it,
  Since they are the people who know how to use it;
  So easy, so stately, such manners, such dinners;
  And yet, after all, it is we are the winners.
      So needful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So needful it is to have money.

  It is all very well to be handsome and tall,
  Which certainly makes you look well at a ball,
  It's all very well to be clever and witty.
  But if you are poor, why it's only a pity.
      So needful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So needful it is to have money.

  There's something undoubtedly in a fine air,
  To know how to smile and be able to stare,
  High breeding is something, but well bred or not,
  In the end the one question is, what have you got?
      So needful it is to have money, heigh-ho!
      So needful it is to have money.

  And the angels in pink and the angels in blue,
  In muslins and moirés so lovely and new,
  What is it they want, and so wish you to guess,
  But if you have money, the answer is yes.
      So needful, they tell you, is money, heigh-ho!
      So needful it is to have money.

C.S. CALVERLEY.

(1831-1884.)

LXXI. "HIC VIR, HIC EST."

    The subtle mingling of pathos and satire in this poem evoked the
    warm admiration of Mr. J. Russell Lowell. This is published by
    special permission of Messrs. G. Bell & Sons, to whom thanks are
    tendered.

  Often, when o'er tree and turret,
    Eve a dying radiance flings,
  By that ancient pile I linger,
    Known familiarly as "King's".
  And the ghosts of days departed
    Rise, and in my burning breast
  All the undergraduate wakens,
    And my spirit is at rest.

  What, but a revolting fiction,
    Seems the actual result
  Of the Census's inquiries,
    Made upon the 15th ult.?
  Still my soul is in its boyhood;
    Nor of year or changes recks,
  Though my scalp is almost hairless,
    And my figure grows convex.

  Backward moves the kindly dial;
    And I'm numbered once again
  With those noblest of their species
    Called emphatically "Men";
  Loaf, as I have loafed aforetime,
    Through the streets, with tranquil mind,
  And a long-backed fancy-mongrel
    Trailing casually behind.

  Past the Senate-house I saunter,
    Whistling with an easy grace;
  Past the cabbage stalks that carpet
    Still the beefy market-place;
  Poising evermore the eye-glass
    In the light sarcastic eye,
  Lest, by chance, some breezy nursemaid
    Pass, without a tribute, by.

  Once, an unassuming Freshman,
    Thro' these wilds I wandered on,
  Seeing in each house a College,
    Under every cap a Don;
  Each perambulating infant
    Had a magic in its squall,
  For my eager eye detected
    Senior Wranglers in them all.

  By degrees my education
    Grew, and I became as others;
  Learned to blunt my moral feelings
    By the aid of Bacon Brothers;
  Bought me tiny boots of Mortlock,
    And colossal prints of Roe;
  And ignored the proposition,
    That both time and money go.

  Learned to work the wary dogcart,
    Artfully thro' King's Parade;
  Dress, and steer a boat, and sport with
    Amaryllis in the shade:
  Struck, at Brown's, the dashing hazard;
    Or (more curious sport than that)
  Dropped, at Callaby's, the terrier
    Down upon the prisoned rat.

  I have stood serene on Fenner's
    Ground, indifferent to blisters,
  While the Buttress of the period
    Bowled me his peculiar twisters:
  Sung, "We won't go home till morning";
    Striven to part my backhair straight;
  Drunk (not lavishly) of Miller's
    Old dry wines at 78/:--

  When within my veins the blood ran,
    And the curls were on my brow,
  I did, oh ye undergraduates,
    Much as ye are doing now.
  Wherefore bless ye, O beloved ones:--
    Now into mine inn must I,
  Your "poor moralist", betake me,
    In my "solitary fly".

