THE BAY STATE MONTHLY.

A Massachusetts Magazine.

VOL. I. FEBRUARY, 1884. NO. II.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hon. ALEXANDER HAMILTON RICE, LL.D.

By Daniel B. Hagar, Ph.D.

[Principal of the State Normal School, Salem.]

Massachusetts merchants have been among the most prominent men in the nation through all periods
of its history. From the days of John Hancock down to the present time they have often been
called by their fellow-citizens to discharge the duties of the highest public offices. Hancock
was the first governor of the State. In the list of his successors, the merchants who have
distinguished themselves by honorable and successful administrations occupy prominent places.
Conspicuous among them stands the subject of this sketch.

Alexander Hamilton Rice, a son of Thomas Rice, Esq., a well-known manufacturer of paper, was
born in Newton Lower Falls, Massachusetts, August 30, 1818. He received his early education
in the public schools of his native town and in the academies of the Reverend Daniel Kimball,
of Needham, and Mr. Seth Davis, of Newton, a famous teacher in his day, who is still living,
in vigorous health, at the venerable age of ninety-seven years. As a boy, young Rice was cheery,
affectionate, and thoughtful, and a favorite among his companions. His earliest ambition was
to become a Boston merchant. After leaving school he entered a dry-goods store in the city.
He there performed his duties with such laborious zeal and energy that his health gave way,
and he was compelled to return to his home in Newton, where he suffered many months' illness
from a malignant fever, which nearly proved fatal. About two years later he returned to Boston,
and entered the establishment of Messrs. J.H. Wilkins and R.B. Carter, then widely known as
publishers of music books and of dictionaries of various languages, as well as wholesale dealers
in printing and writing papers. Three years of service in their employ laid the foundation
of the excellent business habits which led to his ultimate success.

During this time he was a member of the Mercantile Library Association, in company with such
men as Edwin P. Whipple, James T. Fields, Thomas R. Gould, afterward the distinguished sculptor,
and many others who were, active participants in its affairs, and who have become eminent in
literature or in public life. Young Rice was a careful student in the association, though sharing
less frequently in its exercises than some others. His decided literary tastes finally led
him to resolve upon the enlargement of his education by a collegiate course of study. He accordingly
entered Union College, Schenectady, New York, then under the presidency of the venerable Dr.
Eliphalet Nott, where he was graduated in 1844, receiving the highest honors of his class on
Commencement Day. His classmates bear testimony to the fact that his career in college was
in the highest degree honorable to himself and to the institution of which he was one of the
most respected and popular members.

At the time of his graduation his purpose was to study law and to pursue it as a profession;
but soon afterward delicate health interposed a serious obstacle, and a favorable offer of
partnership in business with his former employers induced him to join them in the firm which
then became known as Wilkins, Carter, and Company, the senior member of which was a graduate
of Harvard College, and, at one time, a member of its Faculty. The present firm of Rice, Kendall,
and Company, of which he is the senior member, is its representative to-day, and is widely
known as one of the largest paper-warehouses in the country.

In 1845, Mr. Rice married Miss Augusta E. McKim, daughter of John McKim, Esq., of Washington,
District of Columbia, and sister of Judge McKim, of Boston, a highly-educated and accomplished
lady, who died on a voyage to the West Indies, in 1868, deeply lamented by a large circle of
acquaintances and friends, to whom she had become endeared by a life of beneficence and courtesy.

After his graduation from college, Mr. Rice, having again engaged in mercantile business, pursued
it with great earnestness, fidelity, and success. These qualities, together with his intellectual
culture and his engaging address, eminently fitted him for public service, and early attracted
favorable attention. He first served the city of Boston as a member of its school-board, in
which capacity he gave much personal attention to the schools in all their various interests.
To his duties in connection with the public schools were soon added those of a trustee of the
lunatic hospital and other public institutions.

In 1853, Mr. Rice was elected a member of the common council, and a year later he was president
of that body. In 1855, he received, from a large number of citizens of all parties, a flattering
request that he would permit them to nominate him for the mayoralty of Boston. He reluctantly
acceded to their request, and, after a sharply-contested campaign, was elected by a handsome
majority. His administration of city affairs proved so satisfactory that he was re-elected,
the following year, by an increased majority. By his wisdom, energy, and rare administrative
ability, Mayor Rice gained a wide and enviable reputation. He was instrumental in accomplishing
many reforms in municipal administration, among which were a thorough reorganization of the
police; the consolidation of the boards of governors of the public institutions, by which much
was gained in economy and efficiency; the amicable and judicious settlement of many claims
and controversies requiring rare skill and sagacity in adjustment; and the initiation of some
of the most important improvements undertaken since Boston became a city. Among these may be
mentioned the laying out of Devonshire Street from Milk Street to Franklin Street, which he
first recommended, as well as the opening of Winthrop Square and adjacent streets for business
purposes, the approaches to which had previously been by narrow alleys. The magnificent improvements
in the Back Bay, which territory had long been the field of intermittent and fruitless effort
and controversy, were brought to successful negotiation during his municipal administration,
and largely through the ability, energy, and fairness with which he espoused the great work.
The public schools continued to hold prominence in his attention, and he gave to them all the
encouragement which his office could command; while his active supervision of the various charitable
and reformatory institutions was universally recognized and welcomed. The free city hospital
was initiated, and the public library building completed during his administration.

Endowed with gifts of natural eloquence, his public addresses furnished many examples of persuasive
and graceful oratory. Among the conspicuous occasions that made demands upon his ability as
a public speaker was the dedication of the public library building. On that occasion his address
was interposed between those of the Honorable Edward Everett ard the Honorable Robert C. Winthrop,
both of whom were men of the highest and most elegant culture, possessing a national reputation
for finished eloquence. The position in which the young Boston merchant found himself was an
exceedingly difficult and trying one; but he rose most successfully to its demands, and nobly
surpassed the exacting expectations of his warmest admirers. It was agreed on every hand that
Mayor Rice's address was fully equal, in scope and appropriateness of thought and beauty of
diction, to that of either of the eminent scholars and orators with whom he was brought into
comparison. It received emphatic encomiums at home, and attracted the flattering attention
of the English press, by which it was extensively copied and adduced as another evidence of
the literary culture found in municipal officers in this country, and of American advancement
in eloquence and scholarship.

At the close of Mr. Rice's second term in the mayoralty of Boston, he declined a renommation.
While in that office, he was faithful to the men who had elected him, and abstained from participation
in party politics farther than in voting for selected candidates. Originally, he was an anti-slavery
Whig, and, upon the formation of the Republican party, he became identified with it.

When he retired from the office of mayor, in January, 1858, it was his intention to devote
himself exclusively to business; but an unexpected concurrence of circumstances in the third
congressional district led to his nomination and election to Congress by the Republicans, although
the partisan opposition was largely in the majority. He continued to represent the district
for eight consecutive years, and until he declined further service. He entered Congress just
before the breaking out of the Civil War, and became a participant in the momentous legislative
events of that period. He witnessed the secession of the Southern members from the two houses
of Congress, and served through the whole period of the war and through one Congress after
the war closed, embracing one half of President Buchanan's administration, the whole of Lincoln's,
and one half of Johnson's. He served on the committees on the Pacific Railroad, on the District
of Columbia, and on naval affairs, of which last important committee he was chairman during
the two closing years of the war. In this last position he won much reputation by his mastery
of information relating to naval affairs at home and abroad, and by his thorough devotion to
the interests of the American Navy. Mr. Rice did not often partake in the general debates of
Congress, but he had the confidence of its members to an unusual degree, and the measures which
he presented were seldom successfully opposed. When occasion called, however, he distinguished
himself as a debater of first-class ability, as was shown in his notable reply to the Honorable
Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland, one of the most brilliant speakers in Congress, in defence
of the navy, and especially of its administration during the war period.

Notwithstanding his arduous labors as chairman of the naval committee, Mr. Rice's business
habits and industry enabled him to attend faithfully to the general interests of his constituents,
and to many details of public affairs which are often delegated to unofficial persons or are
altogether neglected. All of his large correspondence was written by himself, and was promptly
despatched. Governor Andrew used to say that whenever he needed information from Washington,
and prompt action, he always wrote to the representative of the third district.

At home Mr. Rice has filled many positions of prominence in business and social life. He was
for some years president of the board of trade, and of the National Sailors' Home. He was president
of the great Peace Jubilee, held in Boston in 1869, the most remarkable musical entertainment
ever held in America, embracing an orchestra of twelve hundred instruments, and a chorus of
twenty thousand voices. The opening address of this jubilee was made by Mr. Rice. He was also
the chairman of the committee to procure the equestrian statue of Washington for the Public
Garden in Boston, and of the committee that erected the statue of Charles Sumner. He delivered
an appropriate address at the unveiling of each of these works, and also at the unveiling of
the statue of Franklin, erected during his mayoralty in front of the City Hall. He has also
been president of the Boston Memorial Society, and of the Boston Art Club, as well as of many
other associations.

Mr. Rice was elected governor of Massachusetts in 1875, and was twice re-elected. His career
as governor was characterized by a comprehensive and liberal policy in State affairs. While
he was always ready to listen to the opinions and wishes of other men, his administration was
strongly marked by his own individuality. His messages to the Legislature were clear and decisive
in recommendation and discussion, and his policy in regard to important measures was plainly
defined. He never interfered with the functions of the co-ordinate branches of the government;
on the other hand, he was equally mindful of the rights of the executive. Always ready to co-operate
with the Legislature in regard to measures which the welfare and honor of the Commonwealth
seemed to him to justify, he did not hesitate to apply the executive veto when his judgment
dictated, even in relation to measures of current popularity. He thoroughly reorganized the
militia of the State, thereby greatly improving its character and efficiency, besides largely
diminishing its annual cost. His appointments to office, though sometimes sharply criticised,
proved, almost without exception, to have been judiciously made, and in many instances exhibited
remarkable insight into the character and aptitude of the persons appointed.

Although elected a Republican, Governor Rice was thoroughly loyal to the best interests of
the State in the distribution of patronage. Every faithful and competent officer whom he found
in place was reappointed, regardless of his politics, and the incompetent and unreliable were
retired, though belonging to his own party. It is, however, but fair to say, that in making
original appointments and in filling absolute vacancies, he gave the preference, in cases of
equal character and competency, to men of his own party.

During the centennial year, 1876, the special occasions, anniversaries, and public celebrations
were very numerous, and added greatly to the demands upon the governor's time and services
in semi-official engagements, in all of which he acquitted himself with high credit to himself
and the Commonwealth.

In 1877, he escorted President Hayes to Harvard University to receive the degree of Doctor
of Laws, an honor which had been conferred upon himself the previous year; and in 1878 he also
escorted Lord Dufferin, governor-general of Canada, to the university, on an occasion made
memorable by the visit of that distinguished statesman.

During his whole administration, Governor Rice took a deep interest in the cause of education
in the State, as president of the board of education, and in visiting schools and colleges
for personal inspection. He also carefully watched over the several State institutions for
correction, for reform, and for lunacy and charity, encouraging, as opportunity offered, both
officers and inmates, and, at the same time, unsparing in merited criticism of negligence and
unfaithfulness.

In a word, Governor Rice's administration of State affairs justly ranks among the administrations
that have been the most useful and honorable to the Commonwealth.

In 1881, Mr. Rice was elected honorary chancellor of Union University, his alma mater, and
at the commencement anniversary of that year he delivered an elaborate oration on The Reciprocal
Relations of Education and Enterprise, which was received with the highest favor by the numerous
statesmen and scholars who honored the occasion by their presence, and was afterwards published
and widely circulated.

Mr. Rice is still actively engaged in business, and still maintains an undiminished interest
in the affairs of public and social life.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD STORES AND THE POST-OFFICE OF GROTON.

By the Hon. Samuel Abbott Green, M.D.

Tradition has preserved little or nothing in regard to the earliest trading stores of Groton.
It is probable, however, that they were kept in dwelling-houses, by the occupants, who sold
articles in common use for the convenience of the neighborhood, and at the same time pursued
their regular vocations.

Jonas Cutler was keeping a shop on the site of Mr. Gerrish's store, before the Revolution;
and the following notice, signed by him, appears in The Massachusetts Gazette (Boston), November
28, 1768:--

  A THEFT.

  Whereas on the 19th or 20th Night of November Instant, the Shop of the
  Subscriber was broke open in Groton, and from thence was stollen
  a large Sum of Cash, viz. four Half Johannes, two Guineas, Two Half
  Ditto, One Pistole mill'd, nine Crowns, a Considerable Number of
  Dollars, with a considerable Quantity of small Silver & Copper, together
  with one Bever Hat, about fifteen Yards of Holland, eleven Bandannas,
  blue Ground with white, twelve red ditto with white, Part of a Piece of
  Silk Romails, 1 Pair black Worsted Hose, 1 strip'd Cap, 8 or 10 black
  barcelona Handkerchiefs, Part of a Piece of red silver'd Ribband, blue
  & white do, Part of three Pieces of black Sattin Ribband, Part of three
  Pieces of black Tafferty ditto, two bundles of Razors, Part of 2 Dozen
  Penknives, Part of 2 Dozen ditto with Seals, Part of 1 Dozen Snuff
  Boxes, Part of 3 Dozen Shoe Buckels, Part of several Groce of Buttons,
  one Piece of gellow [yellow?] Ribband, with sundry Articles not yet
  known of---- Whoever will apprehend the said Thief or Thieves, so that
  he or they may be brought to Justice, shall receive TEN DOLLARS Reward
  and all necessary Charges paid.

  JONAS CUTLER.

  Groton, Nov. 22,1763 [8?].

  ==> If any of the above mentioned Articles are offered to Sail, it
  is desired they may be stop'd with the Thief, and Notice given to said
  Cutler or to the Printers.

On October 21, 1773, a noted burglar was hanged in Boston for various robberies committed in
different parts of the State, and covering a period of some years. The unfortunate man was
present at the delivery of a sermon, preached at his own request, on the Sunday before his
execution; and to many of the printed copies is appended an account of his life. In it the
poor fellow states that he was only twenty-one years old, and that he was born at Groton of
a respectable family. He confesses that he broke into Mr. Cutler's shop, and took away "a good
piece of broad-cloth, a quantity of silk mitts, and several pieces of silk handkerchiefs."
He was hardly seventeen years of age at the time of this burglary. To the present generation
it would seem cruel and wicked to hang a misguided youth for offences of this character.

Mr. Cutler died December 19, 1782; and he was succeeded in business by Major Thomas Gardner,
who erected the present building known as Gerrish's block, which is soon to be removed. Major
Gardner lived in the house now owned by the Waters family.

Near the end of the last century a store, situated a little north of the late Mr. Dix's house,
was kept by James Brazer, which had an extensive trade for twenty miles in different directions.
It was here that the late Amos Lawrence served an apprenticeship of seven years, which ended
on April 22, 1807; and he often spoke of his success in business as due, in part, to the experience
in this store. Late in life he wrote that "the knowledge of every-day affairs which I acquired
in my business apprenticeship at Groton has been a source of pleasure and profit even in my
last ten years' discipline."

The quantity of New-England rum and other liquors sold at that period would astonish the temperance
people of the present day. Social drinking was then a common practice, and each forenoon some
stimulating beverage was served up to the customers in order to keep their trade. There were
five clerks employed in the establishments; and many years later Mr. Lawrence, in giving advice
to a young student in college, wrote:--

  "In the first place, take this for your motto at the commencement of
  your journey, that the difference of going just right, or a
  little wrong, will be the difference of finding yourself in good
  quarters, or in a miserable bog or slough, at the end of it. Of the
  whole number educated in the Groton stores for some years before and
  after myself, no one else, to my knowledge, escaped the bog or slough;
  and my escape I trace to the simple fact of my having put a restraint
  upon my appetite. SAMUEL HALE and the subscriber; he
  has taken into Copartnership his son WILLIAM F. BRAZER, and the business
  in future will be transacted under the firm of

  JAMES BRAZER & SON;

  They will offer for sale, at their store in Groton, within six
  days a complete assortment of English, India, and W. India GOODS, which
  they will sell for ready pay, at as low a rate as any store in the
  Country.

  JAMES BRAZER.

  Groton, May 29, 1805.

"'Squire Brazer," as he was generally called, was a man of wealth and position. He was one
of the founders of Groton Academy, and his subscription of £15 to the building-fund in the
year 1792 was as large as that given by any other person. In the early part of this century
he built the house now belonging to the Academy and situated just south of it, where he lived
until his death, which occurred on November 10, 1818. His widow, also, took a deep interest
in the institution, and at her decease, April 14, 1826, bequeathed to it nearly five thousand
dollars.

After Mr. Brazer's death the store was moved across the street, where it still remains, forming
the ell of Gerrish's block. The post-office was in the north end of it, during Mr. Butler's
term as postmaster. About this time the son, William Farwell Brazer, built a store nearly opposite
to the Academy, which he kept during some years. It was made finally into a dwelling-house,
and occupied by the late Jeremiah Kilburn, whose family still own it.

James Brazer's house was built on the site of one burnt down during the winter season a year
or two previously. There was no fire-engine then in town, and the neighbors had to fight the
flames, as best they could, with snow as well as water. At that time Loammi Baldwin, Jr., a
graduate of Harvard College in the class of 1800, was a law-student in Timothy Bigelow's office.
He had a natural taste for mechanics; and he was so impressed with the need of an engine that
with his own hands he constructed the first one the town ever had. This identical machine,
now known as Torrent, No. I, is still serviceable after a use of more than eighty years, and
will throw a stream of water over the highest roof in the village. It was made in Jonathan
Loring's shop, then opposite to Mr. Boynton's blacksmith shop, where the iron work was done.
The tub is of copper, and bears the date of 1802. Mr. Baldwin, soon after this time, gave up
the profession of law, and became, like his father, a distinguished civil engineer.

The brick store, opposite to the High School, was built about the year 1836, by Henry Woods,
for his own place of business, and afterward kept by him and George S. Boutwell, the style
of the firm being Woods and Boutwell. Mr. Woods died on January 12, 1841; and he was succeeded
by his surviving partner, who carried on the store for a long time, even while holding the
highest executive position in the State. The post-office was in this building during the years
1839 and 1840. For the past twenty-five years it has been occupied by various firms, and now
is kept by D.H. Shattuck and Company.

During the last war with England, Eliphalet Wheeler had a store where Miss Betsey Capell, in
more modern times, kept a haberdasher's shop. It is situated opposite to the Common, and now
used as a dwelling-house. She was the daughter of John Capell, who owned the sawmill and gristmill,
which formerly stood near the present site of the Tileston and Hollingsworth paper-mills, on
the Great Road, north of the village. Afterward Wheeler and his brother, Abner, took Major
Thomas Gardner's store, where he was followed by Park and Woods, Park and Potter, Potter and
Gerrish, and lastly by Charles Gerrish, who has kept it for more than thirty years. It is said
that this building will soon give way to modern improvements.

Near the beginning of the present century there were three military companies in town; the
Artillery company, commanded at one time by Captain James Lewis; the North company by Captain
Jonas Gilson; and the South company by Captain Abel Tarbell. Two of these officers were soon
promoted in the regimental service: Captain Tarbell to a colonelcy, and Captain Lewis to a
majorate. Captain Gilson resigned, and was succeeded by Captain Noah Shattuck. They had their
Spring and fall training-days, when they drilled as a battalion on the Common,--there were
no trees there, then,--and marched through the village. They formed a very respectable command,
and sometimes would be drawn up before Esquire Brazer's store, and at other times before Major
Gardner's, to be treated with toddy, which was then considered a harmless drink.

David Child had a store, about the beginning of the century, at the south corner of Main and
Pleasant Streets, nearly opposite to the site of the Orthodox meeting-house, though Pleasant
Street was not then laid out. It was afterward occupied by Deacon Jonathan Adams, then by Artemas
Wood, and lastly by Milo H. Shattuck. This was moved off twelve or fifteen years ago, and a
spacious building put up, a few rods north, on the old tavern site across the way, by Mr. Shattuck,
who still carries on a large business.

Alpheus Richardson kept a store, about the year 1815, in his dwelling-house, at the south corner
of Main and Elm Streets, besides having a book-bindery in the same building. The binder's shop
was continued until about 1850. It is said that this house was built originally by Colonel
James Prescott, for the use of his son, Abijah, as a store; but it never was so occupied.

Joseph and Phineas Hemenway built a store on the north corner of Main and Elm Streets, about
the year 1815, where they carried on a trading business. They were succeeded by one Richardson,
then by David Childs; and finally by John Spalter, who had for many years a bookstore and binder's
shop in the building, which is now used as a dwelling-house. At the present time Mr. Spalter
is living in Keene, New Hampshire.

About the year 1826, General Thomas A. Staples built and kept a store on Main Street, directly
north of the Union Church. He was followed successively by Benjamin Franklin Lawrence, Henry
Hill, and Walter Shattuck. The building was burned down about ten years ago, and its site is
now occupied by Dr. David R. Steere's house.

In the year 1847 a large building was moved from Hollis Street to the corner of Main and Court
Streets. It was put up originally as a meeting-house for the Second Adventists, or Millerites
as they were called in this neighborhood, after William Miller, one of the founders of the
sect; but after it was taken to the new site, it was fitted up in a commodious manner, with
shops in the basement and a spacious hall in the second story. The building was known as Liberty
Hall, and formed a conspicuous structure in the village. The post-office was kept in it, while
Mr. Lothrop and Mr. Andruss were the postmasters. It was used as a shoe shop, a grocery, and
a bakery, when, on Sunday, March 31, 1878, it was burned to the ground.

The brick store, owned by the Dix family, was built and kept by Aaron Brown, near the beginning
of the century. He was followed by Moses Parker, and after him came ---- and Merriam, and then
Benjamin P. Dix. It is situated at the corner of Main Street and Broad-Meadow Road, and now
used as a dwelling-house. A very good engraving of this building is given in The Groton Herald,
May 8, 1830, which is called by persons who remember it at that time a faithful representation,
though it has since undergone some changes.

Near the end of the last century, Major William Swan traded in the house now occupied by Charles
Woolley, Jr., north of the Common near the old burying-ground. It was Major Swan who set out
the elm-trees in front of this house, which was the Reverend Dr. Chaplin's dwelling for many years.

Two daughters of Isaac Bowers, a son of Landlord Bowers, had a dry-goods shop in the house
owned and occupied by the late Samuel W. Rowe, Esq. About the year 1825, Walter Shattuck opened
a store in the building originally intended for the Presbyterian Church, opposite to the present
entrance of the Groton Cemetery. There was formerly a store kept by one Mr. Lewis, near the
site of Captain Asa Stillman Lawrence's house, north of the Town Hall. There was a trader in
town, Thomas Sackville Tufton by name, who died in the year 1778, though I do not know the
site of his shop. Captain Samuel Ward, a native of Worcester, and an officer in the French
and Indian War, was engaged in business at Groton some time before the Revolution. He removed
to Lancaster, where at one time he was town-clerk, and died there on August 14, 1826.

The Groton post-office was established at the very beginning of the present century, and before
that time letters intended for this town were sent through private hands. Previous to the Revolution
there were only a few post-offices in the Province, and often persons in distant parts of Massachusetts
received their correspondence at Boston. In the Supplement to The Boston Gazette, February
9, 1756, letters are advertised as remaining uncalled for, at the Boston office, addressed
to William Lakin and Abigail Parker, both of Groton, as well as to Samuel Manning, Townsend,
William Gleany, Dunstable, and Jonathan Lawrence, Littleton. Nearly five months afterward these
same letters are advertised in The Boston Weekly News-Letter, July 1, 1756, as still uncalled
for. The name of David Farnum, America, appears also in this list, and it is hoped that wherever
he was he received the missive. The names of Oliver Lack (probably intended for Lakin) and
Ebenezer Parker, both of this town, are given in another list printed in the Gazette of June
28, 1762; and in the same issue one is advertised for Samuel Starling, America. In the Supplement
to the Gazette, October 10, 1768, Ebenezer Farnsworth, Jr., and George Peirce, of Groton, had
letters advertised; and in the Gazette, October 18, 1773, the names of Amos Farnsworth, Jonas
Farnsworth, and William Lawrence, all of this town, appear in the list.

I find no record of a post-rider passing through Groton, during the period immediately preceding
the establishment of the post-office; but there was doubtless such a person who used to ride
on horseback, equipped with saddle-bags, and delivered at regular intervals the weekly newspapers
and letters along the way. In the year 1794, according to the History of New Ipswich, New Hampshire
(page 129), a post-rider, by the name of Balch, rode from Boston to Keene one week and back
the next. Probably he passed through this town, and served the inhabitants with his favors.

Several years ago I procured, through the kindness of General Charles Devens, at that time
a member of President Hayes's cabinet, some statistics of the Groton post-office, which are
contained in the following letter:--

Post-Office Department, Appointment Office,
  Washington, D.C., September 3, 1877.

Hon. CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General, Department of Justice.

Sir,--I have to acknowledge the receipt of a communication from Samuel A. Green, of Boston,
Massachusetts, with your endorsement thereon, requesting to be furnished with a list of postmasters
at the office of Groton, in that State, from the date of its establishment to the present time.

In reply, I have the honor to inform you, that the fire which consumed the department building,
on the night of the fifteenth of December, 1836, destroyed three of the earliest record-books
of this office; but by the aid of the auditor's ledger-books, it is ascertained that the office
began to render accounts on the first of January, 1801, but the exact day is not known, Samuel
Dana, was the first postmaster, and the following list furnishes the history of the office,
as shown by the old records.

Groton, Middlesex County, Massachusetts. Office probably established in November, 1800. Samuel
Dana began rendering accounts January 1, 1801. Wm. M. Richardson, October 1, 1804.

From this time the exact dates are known.

Abraham Moore, appointed postmaster January 31, 1812.

Eliphalet Wheeler, August 20, 1815.

James Lewis, September 9, 1815.

Caleb Butler, July 1, 1826.

Henry Woods, January 15, 1839.

George S. Boutwell, January 22, 1841.

Caleb Butler, April 15, 1841.

Welcome Lothrop, December 21, 1846.

Artemas Wood, February 22, 1849.

George H. Brown, May 4, 1849.

Theodore Andruss, April 11, 1853.

George W. Fiske, April 22, 1861.

Henry Woodcock, February 13, 1867.

Miss Hattie E. Farnsworth, June 11, 1869, who is the present incumbent.

Each postmaster held the office up to the appointment of his successor, but it is probable
that Mr. Boutwell and Mr. A. Wood, although regularly appointed, did not accept, judging by
the dates of the next postmasters.

As to the "income" of the office, to which allusion is made, it is very difficult to obtain
any of the amounts; but the first year and the last year are herewith appended, as follows:--

                Fiscal Year
        (1801)                (1876)
  First quarter, $1.91  First quarter, $314.15
  Second  "       2.13  Second  "       296.94
  Third   "       2.93  Third   "       305.71
  Fourth  "       5.29  Fourth  "       294.28

  For the year, $12.26  For the y'r, $1,211.08

Trusting the foregoing, which is believed to be correct, will be acceptable to you, I am, sir,
respectfully,

Your ob't serv't,

JAMES H. MARR,

Acting First Ass't P.M. General.

It will be seen that the net income of the office, during the first seventy-five years of its
existence, increased one hundred fold.

West Groton is a small settlement that has sprung up in the western part of the town, dating
back in its history to the last century. It is pleasantly situated on the banks of the Squannacook
River, and in my boyhood was known as Squannacook, a much better name than the present one.
It is to be regretted that so many of the old Indian words, which smack of the region, should
have been crowded out of our local nomenclature. There is a small water-power here, and formerly
a sawmill, gristmill, and a paper-mill were in operation; but these have now given way to a
factory, where leather-board is made. The Peterborough and Shirley branch of the Fitchburg
Railroad passes through the place, and some local business is transacted in the neighborhood.
As a matter of course, a post-office was needed in the village, and one was established on
March 19, 1850. The first person to fill the office was Adams Archibald, a native of Truro,
Nova Scotia, who kept it in the railway-station.

The following is a list of the postmasters, with the dates of their appointment:--

  Adams Archibald, March 19, 1850.
  Edmund Blood, May 25, 1868.
  Charles H. Hill, July 31, 1871.
  George H. Bixby, June, 1878.

During the postmastership of Mr. Blood, and since that time, the office has been kept at the
only store in the place.

A post-office was established at South Groton, on June 1, 1849, and the first postmaster was
Andrew B. Gardner. The village was widely known as Groton Junction, and resulted from the intersection
of several railroads. Here six passenger-trains coming from different points were due in the
same station at the same time, and they all were supposed to leave as punctually.

The trains on the Fitchburg Railroad, arriving from each direction, and likewise the trains
on the Worcester and Nashua Road from the north and the south, passed each other at this place.
There was also a train from Lowell, on the Stony Brook Railroad, and another on the Peterborough
and Shirley branch, coming at that time from West Townsend.

A busy settlement grew up, which was incorporated as a distinct town under the name of Ayer,
on February 14, 1871.

The following is a list of the postmasters, with the dates of their appointment:--

  Andrew B. Gardner, June 1, 1849.
  Harvey A. Wood, August 11, 1853.
  George H. Brown, December 30, 1861.
  William H. Harlow, December 5, 1862.
  George H. Brown, January 15, 1863.
  William H. Harlow, July 18, 1865.

The name of the post-office was changed by the department at Washington, from South Groton
to Groton Junction, on March 1, 1862; and subsequently this was changed to Ayer, on March 22,
1871, soon after the incorporation of the town, during the postmastership of Mr. Harlow.

The letter of the acting first assistant postmaster-general, printed above, supplements the
account in Butler's History of Groton (pages 249-251). According to Mr. Butler's statement,
the post-office was established on. September 29, 1800, and the Honorable Samuel Dana was appointed
the first postmaster. No mail, however, was delivered at the office until the last week in
November. For a while it came to Groton by the way of Leominster, certainly a very indirect
route. This fact appears from a letter written to Judge Dana, by the Postmaster-General, under
date of December 18, 1800, apparently in answer to a request to have the mail brought directly
from Boston. In this communication the writer says:--

  It appears to me, that the arrangement which has been made for
  carrying the mail to Groton is sufficient for the accommodation of
  the inhabitants, as it gives them the opportunity of receiving their
  letters regularly, and with despatch, once a week. The route from
  Boston, by Leominster, to Groton is only twenty miles farther than by
  the direct route, and the delay of half a day, which is occasioned
  thereby, is not of much consequence to the inhabitants of Groton.
  If it should prove that Groton produces as much postage as Lancaster
  and Leominster, the new contract for carrying the mail, which is
  to be in operation on the first of October next, will be made by
  Concord and Groton to Walpole, and a branch from Concord to
  Marlborough.

  I am, respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,

  JOS. HABERSHAM.

The amount of postage received from the office, after deducting the necessary expenses, including
the postmaster's salary, was, for the first year after its establishment, about twelve dollars,
or three dollars for three months. In the year 1802 it was thirty-six dollars, or nine dollars
for three months, a large proportional increase. At this time the mail came once a week only,
and was brought by the stage-coach.

Samuel Dana, the first postmaster, was a prominent lawyer at the time of his appointment. He
was the son of the Reverend Samuel Dana, of Groton, and born in this town, June 26, 1767. He
occupied a high position in the community, and exerted a wide influence in the neighborhood.
At a later period he was president of the Massachusetts Senate, a member of Congress, and finally
chief-justice of the circuit court of common pleas. He died at Charlestown, on November 20, 1835.

