On a larger scale, the mere want of habitual exposure to danger will often cause a whole population
to be charged with greater cowardice than really belongs to them. Thus, after the coronation
of the Chevalier, in the Scottish insurrection of 1745, although the populace of Edinburgh
crowded around him, kissing his very garments when he walked abroad, yet scarcely a man could
be enlisted, in view of the certainty of an approaching battle with General Cope. And before
this, when the Highlanders were marching on the city, out of a volunteer corps of four hundred
raised to meet them, all but forty-five deserted before the gate was passed.[1] Yet there is
no reason to doubt that these frightened citizens, after having once stood fire, might have
been as brave as the average. It was a saying in Kansas, that the New England men needed to
be shot at once or twice, after which they became the bravest of the brave.

This habitual courage mingles itself, doubtless, with the third species, the magnetic, or transmitted.
No mental philosopher has yet done justice to the wondrous power of leadership, the "art Napoleon."
It was for this reason that the Greeks used to send to Sparta, not for soldiers, but for a
general. When Crillon, l'homme sans peur, defended Quilleboeuf with a handful of men against
Marshal Villars, the latter represented to him, that it was madness to resist such superiority
of numbers, to which the answer was simply,--"Crillon est dedans, et Villars est dehors." The
event proved that the hero inside was stronger than the army outside.

Every one knows that there is a certain magnetic power in courage, apart from all physical
strength. In a family of lone women, there is usually some one whose presence is held to confer
safety on the house; she may be a delicate invalid, but she is not afraid. The same quality
explains the difference in the demeanor of different companies of men and women, in great emergencies
of danger. Read one narrative of shipwreck, and human nature seems all sublime; read another,
and, under circumstances equally desperate, it appears base, selfish, grovelling. The difference
lies simply in the influence of a few leading spirits. Ordinarily, as is the captain, so are
the officers, so are the passengers, so are the sailors. Bonaparte said, that at the beginning
of almost every battle there was a moment when the bravest troops were liable to sudden panic;
let the personal control of the general once lead them past that, and the field was half won.

The courage of self-devotion, lastly, is the faculty evoked by special exigencies, in persons
who have before given no peculiar evidence of courage. It belongs especially to the race of
martyrs and enthusiasts, whose personal terrors vanish in the greatness of the object, so that
Joan of Arc, listening to the songs of the angels, does not feel the flames. This, indeed,
is the accustomed form in which woman's courage proclaims itself at last, unsuspected until
the crisis comes. This has given us the deeds of Flora Macdonald, Jane Lane, and the Countess
of Derby; the rescue of Lord Nithisdale by his wife, and that planned for Montrose by Lady
Margaret Durham; the heroism of Catherine Douglas, thrusting her arm within the stanchions
of the doorway to protect James I. of Scotland, till his murderers shattered the frail barrier;
and that sublimest narrative of woman's devotion, Gertrude Van der Wart at her husband's execution.
It is possible that all these women may have been timid and shrinking, before the hour of trial;
and every emergency, in peace or war, brings out some such instances. At the close of the troubles
of 1856, in Kansas, a traveller chanced to be visiting a lady in Lawrence, who, in opening
her work-basket, accidentally let fall a small pistol. She smiled and blushed, and presently
acknowledged, that, when she had first pulled the trigger experimentally, six months before,
she had shut her eyes and screamed, although there was only a percussion-cap to explode. Yet
it afterwards appeared that she was one of the few women who remained in their houses, to protect
them by their presence, when the town was entered by the Missourians,--and also one of the
still smaller number who brought their rifles to aid their husbands in the redoubt, when two
hundred were all that could be rallied against three thousand, in September of that eventful
year. Thus easily is the transition effected!

This is the courage, also, of Africans, as manifested among ourselves, --the courage created
by desperate emergencies. Suppled by long slavery, softened by mixture of blood, the black
man seems to pass at one bound, as women do, from cowering pusillanimity to the topmost height
of daring. The giddy laugh vanishes, the idle chatter is hushed, and the buffoon becomes a
hero. Nothing in history surpasses the bravery of the Maroons of Surinam, as described by Stedman,
or of those of Jamaica, as delineated by Dallas. Agents of the "Underground Railroad" report
that the incidents which daily come to their knowledge are beyond all Greek, all Roman fame.
These men and women, who have tested their courage in the lonely swamp against the alligator
and the bloodhound, who have starved on prairies, hidden in holds, clung to locomotives, ridden
hundreds of miles cramped in boxes, head downward, equally near to death if discovered or deserted,
--and who have then, after enduring all this, gone voluntarily back to risk it over again,
for the sake of wife or child,--what are we pale faces, that we should claim a rival capacity
with theirs for heroic deeds? What matter, if none, below the throne of God, can now identify
that nameless negro in the Tennessee iron-works, who, during the last insurrection, said "he
knew all about the plot, but would die before he would tell? He received seven hundred and
fifty lashes and died." Yet where, amid the mausoleums of the world, is there carved an epitaph
like that?

The courage of blood, of habit, or of imitation is not necessarily a very exalted thing. But
the courage of self-devotion cannot be otherwise than noble, however wasted on fanaticism or
delusion. It enters the domain of conscience. Yet, although the sublimest, it is not necessarily
the most undaunted form of courage. It is vain to measure merit by martyrdom, without reference
to the temperament, the occasion, and the aim. There is no passion in the mind of man so weak,
said Lord Bacon, but it mates and masters the fear of death. Sinner, as well as saint, may
be guillotined or lynched, and endure it well. A red Indian or a Chinese robber will dare the
stake as composedly as an early Christian or an abolitionist. One of the bravest of all death-scenes
was the execution of Simon, Lord Lovat, who was unquestionably one of the greatest scoundrels
that ever burdened the earth. We must look deeper. The test of a man is not in the amount of
his endurance, but in its motive; does he love the right, he may die in glory on a bed of down;
is he false and base, these things thrust discord into his hymn of dying anguish, and no crown
of thorns can sanctify his drooping head. Physical courage is, after all, but a secondary quality,
and needs a sublime motive to make it thoroughly sublime.

Among all these different forms of courage it is almost equally true that it is the hardest
of all qualities to predict or identify, in an individual case, before the actual trial. Many
a man has been unable to discover, till the critical moment, whether he himself possessed it
or not. It is often denied to the healthy and strong, and given to the weak. The pugilist may
be a poltroon, and the bookworm a hero. We have seen the most purely ideal philosopher in this
country face the black muzzles of a dozen loaded revolvers with his usual serene composure.
And on the other hand, we have known a black-bearded backwoodsman, whose mere voice and presence
would quell any riot among the lumberers,--yet this man, nicknamed by his employees "the black
devil," confessed himself to be in secret the most timid of lambs.

One reason of this difficulty of estimate lies in the fact, that courage and cowardice often
complicate themselves with other qualifies, and so show false colors. For instance, the presence
or absence of modesty may disguise the genuine character. The unpretending are not always timid,
nor always brave. The boaster is not always, but only commonly, a coward. Were it otherwise,
how could we explain the existence of courage in Frenchmen or Indians? Barking dogs sometimes
bite, as many a small boy, too trustful of the proverb, has found to his cost. "If that be
a friend of yours," says Brantême's brave Spanish Cavalier, "pray for his soul, for he has
quarrelled with me." Indeed, the Gascons, whose name is identified with boasting, (gasconade,)
were always among the bravest races in Europe.

Again, the mere quality of caution is often mistaken for cowardice, while heedlessness passes
for daring. A late eminent American sculptor, a man of undoubted courage, is said to have always
taken the rear car in a railroad train. Such a spirit of prudence, where well-directed, is
to be viewed with respect. We ought not to reverence the blind recklessness which sits on the
safety-valve during a steamboat-race, but the cool composure which neither underrates a danger
nor shrinks from it. The best encomium is that of Malcolm M'Leod upon Charles Edward:--"He
was the most cautious man, not to be a coward, and the bravest man, not to be rash, that I
ever saw"; or that of Charles VII. of France upon Pierre d'Aubusson:--"Never did I see united
so much fire and so much wisdom."

Still again, men vary as to the form of danger which tests them most severely. The Irish are
undoubtedly a brave nation, but their courage is apt to vanish in presence of sickness. They
are not, however, alone in this, if we may judge from the newspaper statements, that, after
the recent quarantine riots in New York, a small-pox patient lay all day untended in the Park,
because no one dared to go near him. It is said of Dr. Johnson, that he was a hero against
pain, but a coward against death. Probably the contrary emotion is quite as common. To a believer
in immortality, death, even when premature, can scarcely be regarded as an unmitigated evil,
but pain enforces its own recognition. We can hardly agree with the frightened recruit in the
farce, who thinks "Victory or Death" a forbidding war-cry, but "Victory or Wooden Legs" a more
appetizing alternative.

Beside these complications, there are those arising from the share which conscience has in
the matter. "Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just," and the most resolute courage
will sometimes quail in a bad cause, and even die in its armor, like Bois-Guilbert. It was
generally admitted, on both sides, in Kansas, that the "Border Ruffians" seldom dared face
an equal number; yet nobody asserted that these men were intrinsically deficient in daring;
it was only conscience which made cowards of them all.

But it is, after all, the faculty of imagination which, more than all else, confuses the phenomena
of courage and cowardice. A very imaginative child is almost sure to be reproached with timidity,
while mere stolidity takes rank as courage. The bravest boy may sometimes be most afraid of
the dark, or of ghosts, or of the great mysteries of storms and the sea. Even the mighty Charlemagne
shuddered when the professed enchanter brought before him the vast forms of Dietrich and his
Northern companions, on horseback. We once saw a party of boys tested by an alarm which appealed
solely to the imagination. The only one among them who stood the test was the most cowardly
of the group, who escaped the contagion through sheer lack of this faculty. Any imaginative
person can occasionally test this on himself by sleeping in a large lonely house, or by bathing
alone in some solitary place by the great ocean; there comes a thrill which is not born of
terror, and the mere presence of a child breaks the spell,--though it would only enhance the
actual danger, if danger there were.

This explains the effect of darkness on danger. "Let Ajax perish in the face of day." Who has
not shuddered over the description of that Arkansas duel, fought by two naked combatants, with
pistol and bowie-knife, in a dark room? One thrills to think of those first few moments of
breathless, sightless, hopeless, hushed expectation, --then the confused encounter, the slippery
floor, the invisible, ghastly terrors of that horrible chamber. Many a man would shrink from
that, who would march coolly up to the cannon's mouth by daylight.

It is probably this mingling of imaginative excitement which makes the approach of peril often
more terrible than its actual contact. "A true knight," said Sir Philip Sidney, "is fuller
of gay bravery in the midst than at the beginning of danger." The boy Condé was reproached
with trembling, in his first campaign. "My body trembles," said the hero, "with the actions
my soul meditates." And it is said of Charles V., that he often trembled when arming for battle,
but in the conflict was as cool as if it were impossible for an emperor to be killed.

These stray glimpses into the autobiography of heroism are of inestimable value, and they are
scanty at best. It is said of Turenne, that he was once asked by M. de Lamoignon, at the dinner-table
of the latter, if his courage was never shaken at the commencement of a battle? "Yes," said
Turenne, "I sometimes undergo great nervous excitement; but there are in the army a great multitude
of subaltern officers and soldiers who experience none whatever." This goes to illustrate the
same point.

To give to any form of courage an available or working value, it is essential that it have
two qualities, promptness and persistency. What Napoleon called "two-o'clock-in-the-morning
courage" is rare. It requires great enthusiasm or great discipline to be proof against a surprise.
It is said that Suwarrow, even in peace, always slept fully armed, boots and all. "When I was
lazy," he said, "and wanted to enjoy a comfortable sleep, I usually took off one spur." In
regard to persistency, history is full of instances of unexpected reverses and eleventh-hour
triumphs. The battle of Marengo was considered hopeless, for the first half of the day, and
a retreat was generally expected, on the part of the French; when Desaix, consulted by Bonaparte,
looked at his watch and said,--"The battle is completely lost, but it is only two o'clock,
and we shall have time to gain another." He then made his famous and fatal cavalry-charge,
and won the field.

Thus armed at all points, incapable of being either surprised or exhausted, courage achieves
results which seem miraculous. It is an element of inspiration, something superadded and incalculable,
when all the other forces are exhausted. When we consider how really formidable becomes the
humblest of quadrupeds, cat or rat, when it grows mad and desperate and throws all personal
fear behind, it is clear that there must be a reserved power in human daring which defies computation
and equalizes the most fearful odds. Take one man, mad with excitement or intoxication, place
him with his back to the wall, a knife in his hand, and the fire of utter frenzy in his eyes,--and
who, among the thousand bystanders, dares make the first attempt to disarm him? Desperate courage
makes one a majority.

It is this miraculous quality which helps to explain the extraordinary victories of history:
as where the army of Lucullus at Tigranocerta slew one hundred thousand barbarians with the
loss of only a hundred men,--or where Cortés conquered Mexico with six hundred foot and sixteen
horse. The astounding narratives in the chivalry romances, where the historian risks his Palmerin
or Amadis as readily against twenty giants as one, secure of bringing him safely through,--or
the corresponding modern marvels of Alexandre Dumas,--seem scarcely exaggerations of actual
events. A Portuguese, at the siege of Goa, inserted a burning match in a cask of gunpowder,
then grasped it in his arms, and, crying to his companions, "Stand aside, I bear my own and
many men's lives," threw it among the enemy, of whom a hundred were killed by the explosion,
the bearer being left unhurt. John Haring, on a Flemish dyke, held a thousand men at bay, saved
his army, and finally escaped uninjured. And the motto of Bayard, Vires agrainis unus habet,
was given him after singly defending a bridge against two hundred Spaniards. Such men appear
to bear charmed lives, and to be identical with the laws of Fate. "What a soldier, what a Roman,
was thy father, my young bride! How could they who never saw him have discoursed so rightly
upon virtue?"

From popular want of faith in these infinite resources of daring, it is a common thing for
persons of eminent courage to be stigmatized as rash. This has been strikingly the case, for
instance, in modern times, with the Marquis of Wellesley and Sir Charles Napier. When the Duke
of Wellington was in the Peninsula in 1810, the City of London addressed the throne, protesting
against the bestowal of "honorable distinctions upon a general who had thus far exhibited,
with equal rashness and ostentation, nothing but an useless valor."

But if bravery is liable to exist in excess, on the one side, it is a comfort to think that
it is capable of cultivation, where deficient. There may be a few persons born absolutely without
the power of courage, as without the susceptibility to music,--but very few; and, no doubt,
the elements of daring, like those of musical perception, can be developed in almost all. Once
rouse the enthusiasm of the will, and courage can be systematically disciplined. Emerson's
maxim gives the best regimen: "Always do what you are afraid to do." If your lot is laid amid
scenes of peace, then carry the maxim into the arts of peace. Are you afraid to swim that river?
then swim it. Are you afraid to leap that fence? then leap it. Do you shrink from the dizzy
height of yonder magnificent pine? then climb it, and "throw down the top," as they do in the
forests of Maine. Goethe cured himself of dizziness by ascending the lofty stagings of the
Frankfort carpenters. Nothing is insignificant that is great enough to alarm you. If you cannot
think of a grizzly bear without a shudder, then it is almost worth your while to travel to
the Rocky Mountains in order to encounter the reality. It is said that Van Amburgh attributed
all his power over animals to the similar rule given him by his mother in his boyhood: "If
anything frightens you, walk up and face it." Applying this maxim boldly, he soon satisfied
himself that man possessed a natural power of control over all animals, if he dared to exercise
it. He said that every animal divined by unerring instinct the existence of fear in his ruler,
and a moment's indecision might cost one's life. On being asked, what he should do, if he found
himself in the desert, face to face with a lion, he answered, "If I wished for certain death,
I should turn and run away."

Physical courage may be educated; but it must be trained for its own sake. We say again, it
must not be left to moral courage to include it, for the two faculties have different elements,--and
what God has joined, human inconsistency may put asunder. The disjunction is easy to explain.
Many men, when committed on the right side of any question, get credit for a "moral courage,"
which is, in their case, only an intense egotism, isolating them from all demand for human
sympathy. In the best cause, they prefer to belong to a party conveniently small, and, on the
slightest indications of popular approbation, begin to suspect themselves of compromise. The
abstract martyrdom of unpopularity is therefore clear gain to them; but when it comes to the
rack and the thumbscrew, the revolver and the bowie-knife, the same habitual egotism makes
them cowards. These men are annoying in themselves, and still worse because they throw discredit
on the noble and unselfish reformers with whom they are identified in position. But even among
this higher class there are differences of temperament, and it costs one man an effort to face
the brute argument of the slung-shot, while another's fortitude is not seriously tested till
it comes to facing the newspaper editors.

We have given but a few aspects of a rich and endless theme, and have depicted these more by
examples than analysis, mindful of the saying of Sidney, that Alexander received more bravery
of mind by the example of Achilles than by hearing the definition of fortitude. If we have
seemed to draw illustrations too profusely from the records of battles, it is to be remembered,
that, even if war be not the best nurse of heroisms, it is their best historian. The chase,
for instance, though perhaps as prolific in deeds of daring as the camp, has found few Cummings
and Gerards for annalists, and the more trivial aim of the pursuit diminishes the permanence
of its records. The sublime fortitude of hospitals, the bravery shown in infected cities, the
fearlessness of firemen and of sailors, these belong to those times of peace which have as
yet few historians. But we have sought to exhibit the deep foundations and instincts of courage,
and it matters little whence the illustrations come. Doubtless, for every great deed ever narrated,
there were a hundred greater ones untold; and the noblest valor of the world may sleep unrecorded,
like the heroes before Homer.

But there are things which, once written, the world does not willingly let die; embalmed in
enthusiasm, borne down on the unconquerable instincts of childhood, they become imperishable
and eternal. We need not travel to visit the graves of the heroes: they are become a part of
the common air; their line is gone out to all generations. Shakspeares are but their servants;
no change of time or degradation of circumstance can debar us from their lesson. The fascination
which every one finds in the simplest narrative of daring is the sufficient testimony to its
priceless and permanent worth. Human existence finds its range expanded, when Demosthenes describes
Philip of Macedon, his enemy: "I saw this Philip, with whom we disputed for empire. I saw him,
though covered with wounds, his eye struck out, his collar-bone broken, maimed in his hands,
maimed in his feet, still resolutely rush into the midst of dangers, ready to deliver up to
Fortune any part of his body she might require, provided he might live honorably and gloriously
with the rest." Would it not be shameful, that war should leave us such memories as these,
and peace bequeathe us only money and repose? True, "peace hath her victories, no less renowned
than war." No less! but they should be infinitely greater. Esto miles pacificus, "Be the soldier
of peace," was the priestly benediction of mediaeval knights; and the aspirations of humaner
ages should lead us into heroisms such as Plutarch never portrayed, and even Bayard and Sidney
only prophesied, but died without the sight of.

[Footnote 1: It is worth mentioning, that among the deserters was one valorous writing-master,
who had previously prepared a breastplate of two quires of his-own foolscap, inscribing thereon,
in his best penmanship,--"This is the body of J.M.; pray, give it Christian burial."]

       *       *       *       *       *

  NOVEMBER.

  Much have I spoken of the faded leaf;
    Long have I listened to the wailing wind,
  And watched it ploughing through the heavy clouds;
    For autumn charms my melancholy mind.

  When autumn comes, the poets sing a dirge:
    The year must perish; all the flowers are dead;
  The sheaves are gathered; and the mottled quail
    Runs in the stubble, but the lark has fled!

  Still, autumn ushers in the Christmas cheer,
    The holly-berries and the ivy-tree:
  They weave a chaplet for the Old Year's heir;
    These waiting mourners do not sing for me!

  I find sweet peace in depths of autumn woods,
    Where grow the ragged ferns and roughened moss;
  The naked, silent trees have taught me this,--
    The loss of beauty is not always loss!

A VISIT TO THE AUTOCRAT'S LANDLADY.

By the Special Reporter of the "Oceanic Miscellany".

The door was opened by a stout, red-armed lump of a woman, who, in reply to my question, said
her name was Bridget, but Biddy they calls her mostly. There was a rickety hat-stand in the
entry, upon which, by the side of a schoolboy's cap, there hung a broad-brimmed white hat,
somewhat fatigued by use, but looking gentle and kindly, as I have often noticed good old gentlemen's
hats do, after they have worn them for a time. The door of the dining-room was standing wide
open, and I went in. A long table, covered with an oil-cloth, ran up and down the length of
the room, and yellow wooden chairs were ranged about it. She showed me where the Gentleman
used to sit, and, at the last part of the time, the Schoolmistress next to him. The chairs
were like the rest, but it was odd enough to notice that they stood close together, touching
each other, while all the rest were straggling and separate. I observed that peculiar atmospheric
flavor which has been described by Mr. Balzac, (the French story-teller who borrows so many
things from some of our American loading writers,) under the name of odeur de pension. It is,
as one may say, an olfactory perspective of an endless vista of departed breakfasts, dinners,
and suppers. It is similar, if not identical, in all temperate climates; a kind of neutral
tint, which forms the perpetual background upon which the banquet of today strikes out its
keener but more transitory aroma. I don't think it necessary to go into any further particulars,
because this atmospheric character has the effect of making the dining-rooms of all boarding-houses
seem very much alike; and the accident of a hair-cloth sofa, cold, shiny, slippery, prickly,--or
a veneered sideboard, with a scale off here and there, and a knob or two missing,--or a portrait,
with one hand half under its coat, the other resting on a pious-looking book, --these accidents,
and such as these, make no great difference.

The landlady soon presented herself, and I followed her into the parlor, which was a decent
apartment, with a smart centre-table, on which lay an accordion, a recent number of the "Pactolian,"
a gilt-edged, illustrated book or two, and a copy of the works of that distinguished native
author, to whom I feel very spiteful, on account of his having, some years ago, attacked a
near friend of mine, and whom, on Christian principles, I do not mention,--though I have noticed,
that, where there is an accordion on the table, his books are apt to be lying near it.

The landlady was a "wilted," (not exactly withered,) sad-eyed woman, of the thin-blooded sort,
but firm-fibred, and sharpened and made shrewd by her calling, so that the look with which
she ran me over, in the light of a possible boarder, was so searching, that I was half put
down by it. I informed her of my errand, which was to make some inquiries concerning two former
boarders of hers, in whom a portion of the public had expressed some interest, and of whom
I should be glad to know certain personal details,--as to their habits, appearance, and so
on. Any information she might furnish would be looked upon in the light of a literary contribution
to the pages of the "Oceanic Miscellany," and be compensated with the well-known liberality
of the publishers of that spirited, enterprising, and very popular periodical.

Up to this point, the landlady's countenance had kept that worried, watchful look, which poor
women, who have to fight the world single-handed, sooner or later grow into. But now her features
relaxed a little. The blow which had crushed her life had shattered her smile, and, as the
web of shivered expression shot off its rays across her features, I fancied that Grief had
written her face all over with 'Ws', to mark her as one of his forlorn flock of Widows.

The report here given is partly from the conversation held with the landlady at that time,
and partly from written notes which she furnished me; for, finding that she was to be a contributor
to the "Oceanic Miscellany," and that in that capacity she would be entitled to the ample compensation
offered by the liberal proprietors of that admirably conducted periodical,--which we are pleased
to learn has been growing in general favor, and which, the public may be assured, no pains
will be spared to render superior in every respect,--I say, finding that she was to be handsomely
remunerated, she entered into the subject with great zeal, both verbally and by letter. The
reader will see that I sometimes follow her orthography, and sometimes her pronunciation, as
I may have taken it from writing or from speech.

THE LANDLADY'S ACCOUNT.

There is two vacant places at my table, which I should be pleased to fill with two gentlemen,
or with a gentleman and his wife, or any respectable people, be they merried or single. It
is about the gentleman and the lady that used to set in them places, that inquiries is bein'
made. Some has wrote, and some has spoke, and a good many folks, that was unbeknown to me,
has come in and wanted to see the place where they used to set, and some days it's been nothin'
but ring, ring, ring, from mornin' till night.

Folks will be curious about them that has wrote in the papers. There's my daughter couldn't
be easy no way till she'd got a profeel of one of them authors, to hang up right over the head
of her bed. That's the gentleman that writes stories in the papers, some in the same way this
gentleman did, I expect, that inquiries is made about.

I'm a poor woman, that tries to get an honest livin', and works hard enough for it;--lost my
husband, and buried five children, and have two livin' ones to support. It's a great loss to
me, losin' them two boarders; and if there's anything in them papers he left in that desk that
will fetch anything at any of the shops where they buy such things, I'm sure I wish you'd ask
the printer to step round here and stop in and see what any of 'em is worth. I'll let you have
one or two of 'em, and then you can see whether you don't know anybody that would take the
lot. I suppose you'll put what I tell you into shape, for, like as not, I sha'n't write it
out nor talk jest as folks that make books do.

This gentleman warn't no great of a gentleman to look at. Being of a very moderate dimension,--five
foot five he said, but five foot four more likely, and I've heerd him say he didn't weigh much
over a hundred and twenty pound. He was light-complected rather than darksome, and was one
of them smooth-faced people that keep their baird and wiskers cut close, jest as if they'd
be very troublesome if they let 'em grow,--instead of layin' out their face in grass, as my
poor husband that's dead and gone used to say. He was a well-behaved gentleman at table, only
talked a good deal, and pretty loud sometimes, and had a way of turnin' up his nose when he
didn't like what folks said, that one of my boarders, who is a very smart young man, said he
couldn't stand, no how, and used to make faces and poke fun at him whenever he see him do it.

He never said a word aginst any vittles that was set before him, but I mistrusted that he was
more partickerlar in his eatin' than he wanted folks to know of, for I've know'd him make believe
to eat, and leave the vittles on his plate when he didn't seem to fancy 'em; but he was very
careful never to hurt my feelin's, and I don't belief he'd have spoke, if he had found a tadpole
in a dish of chowder. But nothin' could hurry him when he was about his vittles. Many's the
time I've seen that gentleman keepin' two or three of 'em settin' round the breakfast-table
after the rest had swallered their meal, and the things was cleared off, and Bridget was a-waitin'
to get the cloth away,--and there that little man would set, with a tumbler of sugar and water,--what
he used to call O Sukray, --a-talkin' and a-talkin',--and sometimes he would laugh, and sometimes
the tears would come into his eyes,--which was a kind of grayish blue eyes,--and there he'd
set and set, and my boy Benjamin Franklin hangin' round and gettin' late for school and wantin'
an excuse, and an old gentleman that's one of my boarders a-listenin' as if he wa'n't no older
than my Benj. Franklin, and that schoolmistress settin' jest as if she'd been bewitched, and
you might stick pins into her without her hollerin'. He was a master hand to talk when he got
a-goin'. But he never would have no disputes nor long argerments at my table, and I liked him
all the better for that; for I had a boarder once that never let nothin' go by without disputin'
of it, till nobody knowed what he believed and what he didn't believe, only they was pretty
sure he didn't believe the side he was a-disputin' for, and some of 'em said, that, if you
wanted him to go any partickerlar way, you must do with him just as folks do that drive--well,
them obstinate creeturs that squeal so,-- for I don't like to name such creeturs in connexion
with a gentleman that paid his board regular, and was a very smart man, and knowed a great
deal, only his knowledge all laid crosswise, as one of 'em used to say, after t'other one had
shet him up till his mouth wa'n't of no more use to him than if it had been a hole in the back
of his head. This wa'n't no sech gentleman. One of my boarders used to say that he always said
exactly what he was a mind to, and stuck his idees out jest like them that sells pears outside
their shop-winders, --some is three cents, some is two cents, and some is only one cent, and
if you don't like, you needn't buy, but them's the articles and them's the prices, and if you
want 'em, take 'em, and if you don't, go about your business, and don't stand mellerin' of
'em with your thumbs all day till you've sp'ilt 'em for other folks.

He used to say that he was always good company enough, if he wasn't froze to death, and if
he wasn't pinned in a corner so't he couldn't clear out when he'd got as much as he wanted.
But he was a dreadful uneven creetur in his talk, and I've heerd a smart young man that's one
of my boarders say, he believed he had a lid to the top of his head, and took his brains out
and left 'em up-stairs sometimes when he come down in the mornin'.--About his ways, he was
spry and quick and impatient, and, except in a good company,--he used to say,--where he could
get away at any minute, he didn't like to set still very long to once, but wanted to be off
walkin', or rowin' round in one of them queer boats of his, and he was the solitariest creetur
in his goin's about (except when he could get that schoolmistress to trail round with him)
that ever you see in your life. He used to say that usin' two eyes and two legs at once, and
keepin' one tongue a-goin', too, was too sharp practice for him; so he had a way of dodgin'
round all sorts of odd streets, I've heerd say, where he wouldn't meet people that would stick
to him.

It didn't take much to please him. Sometimes it would be a big book he'd lug home, and sometimes
it would be a mikerscope, and sometimes it would be a dreadful old-lookin' fiddle that he'd
picked up somewhere, and kept a-screechin' on, sayin' all the while that it was jest as smooth
as a flute. Then ag'in I'd hear him laughin' out all alone, and I'd go up and find him readin'
some verses that he'd been makin'. But jest as like as not I'd go in another time, and find
him cryin',--but he'd wipe his eyes and try not to show it, --and it was all nothin' but some
more verses he'd been a-writin'. I've heerd him say that it was put down in one of them ancient
books, that a man must cry, himself, if he wants to make other folks cry; but, says he, you
can't make 'em neither laugh nor cry, if you don't try on them feelin's yourself before you
send your work to the customers.

He was a temperate man, and always encouraged temperance by drinkin' jest what he was a mind
to, and that was generally water. You couldn't scare him with names, though. I remember a young
minister that's go'n' to be, that boards at my house, askin' once what was the safest strong
drink for them that had to take somethin' for the stomach's sake and thine awful infirmities.
Aqua fortis, says he, --because you know that'll eat your insides out, if you get it too strong,
and so you always mind how much you take. Next to that, says he, rum's the safest for a wise
man, and small beer for a fool.

I never mistrusted anything about him and that schoolmistress till I heerd they was keepin'
company and was go'n' to be merried. But I might have knowed it well enough by his smartin'
himself up the way he did, and partin' the hair on the back of his head, and gettin' a blue
coat with brass buttons, and wearin' them dreadful tight little French boots that used to stand
outside his door to be blacked, and stickin' round schoolma'am, and follerin' of her with his
eyes; but then he was always fond of ladies, and used to sing with my daughter, and wrote his
name out in a blank book she keeps,--them that has daughters of their own will keep their eyes
on 'em,--and I've often heerd him say he was fond of music and picters,--and she worked a beautiful
pattern for a chair of his once, that he seemed to set a good deal by; but I ha'n't no fault
to find, and there is them that my daughter likes and them that likes her.

As to schoolma'am, I ha'n't a word to say that a'n't favorable, and don't harbor no unkind
feelin' to her, and never knowed them that did. When she first come to board at my house, I
hadn't any idee she'd live long. She was all dressed in black; and her face looked so delicate,
I expected before six months was over to see a plate of glass over it, and a Bible and a bunch
of flowers layin' on the lid of the--well, I don't like to talk about it; for when she first
come, and said her mother was dead, and she was alone in the world, except one sister out West,
and unlocked her trunk and showed me her things, and took out her little purse and showed me
her money, and said that was all the property she had in the world but her courage and her
education, and would I take her and keep her till she could get some scholars,--I couldn't
say not one word, but jest went up to her and kissed her and bu'st out a-cryin' so as I never
cried since I buried the last of my five children that lays in the buryin'-ground with their
father, and a place for one more grown person betwixt him and the shortest of them five graves,
where my baby is waitin' for its mother.

[The landlady stopped here and shed a few still tears, such as poor women who have been wrung
out almost dry by fierce griefs lose calmly, without sobs or hysteric convulsions, when they
show the scar of a healed sorrow.]

--The schoolma'am had jest been killin' herself for a year and a half with waitin' and tendin'
and watchin' with that sick mother that was dead now and she was in mournin' for. She didn't
say so, but I got the story out of her, and then I knowed why she looked so dreadful pale and
poor. By-and-by she begun to get some scholars, and then she would come home sometimes so weak
and faint that I was afraid she would drop. One day I handed her a bottle of camphire to smell
of, and she took a smell of it, and I thought she'd have fainted right away.--Oh, says she,
when she come to, I've breathed that smell for a whole year and more, and it kills me to breathe
it again!

The fust thing that ever I see pass between the gentleman inquiries is made about, and her,
was on occasion of his makin' some very searchin' remarks about griefs, sech as loss of friends
and so on. I see her fix her eye steady on him, and then she kind of trembled and turned white,
and the next thing I knew was she was all of a heap on the floor. I remember he looked into
her face then and seemed to be seized as if it was with a start or spasm-like,--but I thought
nothin' more of it, supposin' it was because he felt so bad at makin' her faint away.

Some has asked me what kind of a young woman she was to look at. Well, folks differ as to what
is likely and what is homely. I've seen them that was as pretty as picters in my eyes: cheeks
jest as rosy as they could be, and hair all shiny and curly, and little mouths with lips as
red as sealin'-wax, and yet one of my boarders that had a great name for makin' marble figgers
would say such kind of good looks warn't of no account. I knowed a young lady once that a man
drownded himself because she wouldn't marry him, and she might have had her pick of a dozen,
but I didn't call her anything great in the way of looks.

All I can say is, that, whether she was pretty or not, she looked like a young woman that knowed
what was true and that loved what was good, and she had about as clear an eye and about as
pleasant a smile as any man ought to want for every-day company. I've seen a good many young
ladies that could talk faster than she could; but if you'd seen her or heerd her when our boardin'-house
caught afire, or when there was anything to be done besides speech-makin', I guess you'd like
to have stood still and looked on, jest to see that young woman's way of goin' to work.--Dark,
rather than light; and slim, but strong in the arms,--perhaps from liftin' that old mother
about; for I've seen her heavin' one end of a big heavy chest round that I shouldn't have thought
of touchin',--and yet her hands was little and white.--Dressed very plain, but neat, and wore
her hair smooth. I used to wonder sometimes she didn't wear some kind of ornaments, bein' a
likely young woman, and havin' her way to make in the world, and seein' my daughter wearin'
jewelry, which sets her off so much, every day. She never would,--nothin' but a breastpin with
her mother's hair in it, and sometimes one little black cross. That made me think she was a
Roman Catholic, especially when she got a picter of the Virgin Mary and hung it up in her room;
so I asked her, and she shook her head and said these very words,--that she never saw a church-door
so narrow she couldn't go in through it, nor so wide that all the Creator's goodness and glory
could enter it; and then she dropped her eyes and went to work on a flannel petticoat she was
makin',--which I knowed, but she didn't tell me, was for a poor old woman.

I've said enough about them two boarders, but I believe it's all true. Their places is vacant,
and I should be very glad to fill 'em with two gentlemen, or with a gentleman and his wife,
or any respectable people, be they merried or single.

I've heerd some talk about a friend of that gentleman's comin' to take his place.

That's the gentleman that he calls "the Professor," and I'm sure I hope there is sech a man;
only all I can say is, I never see him, and none of my boarders ever see him, and that smart
young man that I was speakin' of says he don't believe there's no sech person as him, nor that
other one that he called "the Poet." I don't much care whether folks professes or makes poems,
if they makes themselves agreeable and pays their board regular.

The landlady's face splintered again into the wreck of the broken dimples of better days.--She
should be much obleeged, if I would look at them, she said,--and went up stairs and got a small
desk containing loose papers. I looked them hastily over, and selected one of the shortest
pieces, handed the landlady a check which astonished her, and send the following poem as an
appendix to my report. If I should find others adapted to the pages of the spirited periodical
which has done so much to develop and satisfy the intellectual appetite of the American public,
and to extend the name of its enterprising publishers throughout the reading world, I shall
present them in future numbers of the "Oceanic Miscellany." "Come along! Come along!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT EVENT OF THE CENTURY.

Dear Don Bobus,--Pardon my abruptness. In medias res is the rule, you know, formose puer, my
excellent old boy! Bring out the Saint Peray, if there be a bottle of that flavorous and flavous
tipple in your extensive cellars,--which I doubt, since you never had more than a single flask
thereof, presented to you by a returned traveller, who bought it, to my certain knowledge,
of a mixer in Congress Street, in Boston. We drank it, O ale-knight, sub teg. pat. fag. more
than five years ago, of a summer evening, in dear old Cambridge, then undisfigured by the New
Chapel. That it did not kill us as dead as Stilpo of Megara (vide Seneca de Const. for a notice
of that foolish old Stoic) was entirely owing to my abstinence and your naturally strong constitution;
for I remember that you bolted nearly the whole of it. You proved yourself to be a Mithridates
of white lead; while I--but I say no more. I could quote you an appropriate passage from the
tippler of Teos, and in the original Greek, if I had not long ago pawned my copy of Anacreon
(Barnes, 12 mo. Cantab. 1721) to a fellow in Cornhill, who sold it on the very next day to
a total-abstinence tutor. Episodically I may say, that the purchaser read it to such purpose,
that within a week he rose to the honor of sleeping in the station-house, from which keep he
was rescued by a tearful friend, who sent him to the country, solitude, and spruce-beer.

"It is useless," says the Staggerite, "for a sober man to knock at the door of the Muses."
It may also be useless for a sober man to try to write letters to "The New York Scorpion."
In your perilous and unhappy situation you must be a rule unto yourself. But remember, O Bobus,
the saying of Montaigne, that "apoplexy will knock down Socrates as well as a porter." You
are not exactly Socrates; but your best friends have remarked that you are getting to be exceedingly
stout. Stick to your cups, but forbear, as Milton says, "to interpose them oft." In medio tutissimus,--Half
a noggin is better than no wine. For the sake of the dear old times, spare me the pain of seeing
you a reformed inebriate or a Martha Washington!

Between Drunken Barnaby and Neal Dow there is, I trust, a position which a gentleman may occupy.
Because I have a touch of Charles Surface in my constitution, I need not make a Toodles of
myself. So bring out the smallest canakin and let it clink softly,--for I have news to tell you.

I remember, Bob, my boy, once upon a certain Fourth of July,--I leave the particular Fourth
as indefinite as Mr. Webster's "some Fourth" upon which we were to go to war with England,--while
there was a tintinnabulation of the bells, and an ear-splitting tantivy of brass bands, and
an explosion of squibs, which, properly engineered, would have prostrated the great Chinese
Wall, or the Porcelain Tower itself, --in short, a noise loud enough to make a Revolutionary
patriot turn with joy in his coffin,--that I left my Pottery, after dutifully listening to
Mrs. Potter's performance of twenty-eight brilliant variations, pour le piano, on "Yankee Doodle,"
by H. Hertz, (Op. 22,378,)--and sought the punches and patriotism, the joy and the juleps of
the Wagonero Cottage. I found you, Bobus, as cool as if Fahrenheit and Reaumur were not bursting
around you. Well do I remember the patriarchal appearance which you presented, seated in your
own garden, (I think you took the prize for pompions at the county exhibition soon after,)
under your own wide-spreading elm-tree, reading for facts in one of those confounded cigars,
with which, being proof against them yourself, you were in the habit of poisoning your friends.
Solitary and alone, you would have reminded me of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,--three distinguished
heads of families rolled into one,--but, surrounded as you were by the fruits of a happy union,
the triple comparison was not to be resisted. Notwithstanding your hearty welcome, I was a
little dispirited,--for I had come from a childless home. God had taken my sole little lamb,--and
many miles away, with none to care for the flowers which in the first winter of our bereavement
we had scattered upon her rounded grave, she who was the light of our eyes was sleeping. And
while we were thus stricken and lonesome and desolate, your quiver was full and running over.
I do not mind saying now, that I envied you, as I distributed the squibs, rockets, and other
pyrotechnical fodder which I had brought in my pocket for your flock. I gulped it all down,
however, with a pretty good grace, and went to my dinner like a philosopher. Do you not remember
that I was particularly brilliant upon that occasion, and that I told my best story only three
times in the course of the evening? I flatter myself that I know how to conceal my feelings,--although
I punished your claret cruelly, and was sick after it.

I have a notion, dear Don, that I am not writing very coherently, as you, whether pransus or
impransus, almost always do. Under agitating circumstances you are cool, and I verily think
that you would have reported the earthquake at Lisbon without missing one squashed hidalgo,
one drop of the blue blood spilt, one convent unroofed, or one convent belle damaged. Your
report would have been minutely circumstantial enough to have found favor with Samuel Johnson,
LL.D., who for so long a time refused to believe in the Portuguese convulsion. But we are not
all fit by nature to put about butter-tubs in July. I plead guilty to an excitable temperament.
The Bowery youth here speak of a kind of perspiration which, metaphorically, they designate
as "a cast-iron sweat." This for the last twelve hours has been my own agonizing style of exudation.
The novelty of my position causes me to shamble and shuffle, now to pause painfully, and then
to dance like a droll. I go out from the presence of my household, that I may vent myself by
private absurdities and exclusive antics, I retire into remote corners, that I may grin fearfully,
unseen of Mistress Gamp and my small servant. I am possessed by a shouting devil, who is continually
prompting me to give the "hip-hip-hurrah!" under circumstances which might split apex and base
of several of my most important arteries,--which might bring on apoplexy, epilepsy, suffusion
of the brain, or hernia,--which might cause death,--yes, Sir,--death of the mother, father,
and child.

--Really, good friends, I ask your pardon! I do not know what I have done. Did I collar you,
Dr. Slop? Send in your bill tomorrow! Did I smash the instruments beyond repair? And should
you say now,--just speaking off-hand,--that two hundred and fifty dollars would be money enough
to repair them? Of course, I can commit highway robbery, if it be absolutely necessary. My
dear Mrs. Gamp, I fully appreciate the propriety of your suggestions. You want one quart of
gin;--I comprehend. Shall it be your Hollands, your Aromatic Scheidam, your Nantz, or our own
proud Columbian article? You want one quart of rum, potus e saccharo confectus! You want one
quart of brandy. You want one gallon of wine. You want a dozen of brown-stout. You want the
patent vulcanized India-rubber pump. You want anise,-- pimpinella anisum;--I comprehend. You
want castor-oil,--a very fine medicine indeed,--I tasted it myself when a boy. You want magnesia.
You want the patent Vesuvian night-lamp. Madam, that volcanic utensil shall be forthcoming.

Do I rave, Don Bob? Has reason caught the royal trick of the century, and left her throne?
Let me be calm, as becometh one suddenly swelled into ancestral proportions! This small lump
of red clay shall inherit my name, and my estate, which I now seriously purpose to acquire.
For her will I labor. For her I will gorge "The Clarion" with leading articles. For her I will
write the long dreamed-of poem in twenty-four parts. For her I will besiege the private dens
of my friends the booksellers. Dear, helpless little atomy! infinitesimal object of love! bud,
germ, seed, blossom, tidbit, morsel, mannikin, tomtit, abbreviation, concentration, quintessence!
tiny multum in parvo! charming diamond edition! thou small, red possibility! weeping promise
of glad days to come! For thee will I put the world under contribution! For thee will I master
'pathy and 'logy and 'nomy and 'sophy! All was and is for thee! For thee sages have written;
for thee science has toiled; for thee looms are clanking, ships are sailing, and strong men
laboring! Thou art born to a fortune better than one of gold! I am but thy servant, to bring
all treasures and lay them at thy feet! Be remorseless, exacting, greedy of our love and our
lore! Come, young queen, into thy queendom! All is thine!

Bobus, my friend, you undoubtedly think that I am beside myself. You are a tough, knotty old
tree, and I have only one tender shoot. You may sneer, or you may pity,--I care not one baubee
for your praise or your blame. I shall take my own course. I feel my responsibility, Sir! I
shall not come to you for advice! I shall pursue the path of duty, Sir!--Come to you, forsooth!
What could you give? A lot of rubbish from Confucius, with a farrago of useless knowledge anent
the breeching and birching of babies in Japan. I shall seek original sources of information.
What do you know, for instance, of lactation and the act of sucking, Sir? I have been, like
a good Christian, to my Paley already. Hear the Archdeacon of Carlisle! "The teeth are formed
within the gums, and there they stop; the fact being, that their farther advance to maturity
would not only be useless to the new-born animal, but extremely in its way; as it is evident
that the act of sucking, by which it is for some time to be nourished, will be performed with
more ease, both to the nurse and to the infant, whilst the inside of the mouth and edges of
the gums are smooth and soft, than if set with hard-pointed bones. By the time they are wanted,
the teeth are ready." Now, dear Don, is not that an interesting piece of information? You are
not a mother, and probably you never will be one; but can you imagine anything more unpleasant
to the maternal sensibilities than a child born with teeth? Mentally and prophetically unpleasant,
as suggestive of the amiable Duke of Gloser, who came into the world grinning at dentists;
physically unpleasant, in respect of bites, and the impossibility of emulating the complying
conduct of Osric the water-fly, whose early politeness was vouched for by the Lord Hamlet.
Bethink you, moreover, Don, of a wailing infant, full furnished with two rows of teeth--and
nothing to masticate! whereas he must have been more cruel than the "parient" of the Dinah
celebrated in song as the young lady who did not marry Mr. Villikins, that does not have something
ready for them to do by the time the molars and bicuspids appear. I know the perils of dentition.
But have we not the whole family of carminatives? Did the immortal Godfrey live and die in
vain? Did not a kind Providence vouchsafe to us a Daffy? Are there not corals? Are there not
India-rubber rings? And is there not the infinite tenderness and pity which we learn for the
small, wailing sufferer, as, during the night which is not stilly, while the smouldering wick
paints you, an immense, peripatetic silhouette, upon the wall, you pace to and fro the haunted
chamber, and sing the song your mother sang while you were yet a child? What a noble privilege
of martyrdom! What but parental love, deathless and irresistible, could tempt you thus, in
drapery more classical than comfortable, to brave all dangers, to aggravate your rheumatism,
to defy that celebrated god, Tirednature'ssweetrestorer, and to take your snatches of sleep
à pied, a kind of fatherly walking Stewart, as if you were doing your thousand miles in a thousand
hours for a thousand dollars, and were sure of winning the money? Believe me, my friend, the
world has many such martyrs, unknown, obscure, suffering men, whose names Rumor never blows
through her miserable conch-shell,--and I am one of them. As Bully Bertram says, in Maturin's
pimento play,--"I am a wretch, and proud of wretchedness." A child, the offspring of your own
loins, is something worth watching for. Such a father is your true Tapley; --there is some
credit in coming out jolly under such circumstances. The unnatural parent, as those warning
cries break the silence, may counterfeit Death's counterfeit, and may even be guilty of the
surpassing iniquity of simulating a snore. Nunquam dormio; I am like "The Sun" newspaper,--sleepless,
tireless, disturbed, but imperturbable. I meet my fate, and find the pang a pleasant one. And
so may I ever be, through all febrile, cutaneous, and flatulent vicissitudes,--careful of chicken-pox,
mild with mumps and measles, unwearied during the weaning, growing tenderer with each succeeding
rash, kinder with every cold, gentler with every grief, and sweeter-tempered with every sorrow
sent to afflict my little woman! 'Tis a rough world. We must acclimate her considerately.

Of the matter of education I also have what are called "views." I may be peculiar. School-committee-men
who spell Jerusalem with a G, drill-sergeants who believe in black-boards and visible numerators,
statistical fellows who judge of the future fate of the republic by the average attendance
at the "Primaries," may not agree with me in my idea of bending the twig. I do believe, that,
if Dame Nature herself should apply for a school, some of these wise Dogberries would report
her "unqualyfide." I will not murder my pretty pet. So she be gentle, kindly, and loving, what
care I if at sixteen years of age she cannot paint the baptism of John upon velvet, does not
know a word of that accursed French language, breaks down in the "forward and back" of a cotillon,
and cannot with spider fingers spin upon the piano the swiftest Tarantelle of Chopin.-- = 2558
Metronome? We will find something better and braver than all that, my little Alice! Confound
your Italianos!--the birds shall be the music-masters of my tiny dame. Moonrise, and sunset,
and the autumnal woods shall teach her tint and tone. The flowers are older than the school-botanies;--
she shall give them pet names at her own sweet will. We will not go to big folios to find out
the big Latin names of the butterflies; but be sure, pet, they and you shall be better acquainted.
And long before you have acquired that most profitless of all arts, the art of reading, we
will go very deeply into ancient English literature. There is the story of the enterprising
mouse, who, at one o'clock precisely, ran down the clock to the cabalistic tune of "Dickory,
dickory, dock." There are the bold bowl-mariners of Gotham. There is "the man of our town,"
who was unwise enough to destroy the organs of sight by jumping into a bramble-bush, and who
came triumphantly out of the experiment, and "scratched them in again," by boldly jumping into
another bush,--the oldest discoverer on record of the doctrine that similia similibus curantur.
There are Jack and Gill, who, not living in the days of the Cochituate, went up the hill for
water, and who, in descending, met with cerebral injuries. There are the dietetic difficulties
of Mr. and Mrs. Sprat, with the happy solution of a problem at one time threatening the domestic
peace of this amiable pair. Be sure, little woman, we will find merry morsels in the silly-wise
book! And there will be other silly-wise books. Cinderella shall again lose her slipper, and
marry the prince; the wolf shall again eat little Red Ridinghood; and the small eyes grow big
at the adventures of Sinbad, the gallant tar. Will not this be better, Don Bob, than pistil
and stamen and radicle? --than wearing out BBB lead pencils in drawing tumble-down castles,
rickety cottages, and dumpling-shaped trees?--than acquiring a language which has no literature
fit for a girl to read?--than mistressing the absurd modern piano music?--than taking diplomas
from institutes, which most certainly do not express all that young women learn in those venerable
seats of learning? We will not put stays upon our pet until we are obliged to do so. Birdie
shall abide in the paternal nest, and sing the old home-songs, and walk in the old home-ways,
until she has a nice new nest of her own.

Do I dote, Don Bob? Is there a smirk, a villanous, unfeeling, disagreeable, cynical sneer,
lurking under your confounded moustache? I know you of old, you miserable, mocking Mephistopheles!--you
sneerer, you scoffer, you misbeliever! No more of that, or I will travel three hundred miles
expressly to break your head. Take a glass of claret, Bob, and be true to your better nature;
for I suppose you have a better nature packed away somewhere, if one could but get at it. Those
who have no children may laugh, but as a paterfamilias you should be ashamed to do so. And
after all, this is a pretty serious business. As I sit here and dream and hope and pray, and
try to compute the infinite responsibility which has come with this infinite joy, I am very
humble, and I murmur, "Who is sufficient? who is sufficient?" And if you will look at the right-hand
corner of this page, you will find a great splashy blot. Lachrymal, Bob, upon my word! 'Tis
time to write "Yours, &c." Moreover, I am needed for some duty in the nursery. Pleasant dreams!
Health and happiness to Senora Wagonero, and all the little doubleyous. With assurances, &c.,
I remain, &c., &c.,

  PAUL POTTER.

P.S.--Could you tell me the precise age at which Japanese children begin to learn the use of
globes?

P.P.S.--Do Spanish nurses use Daffy? Is there any truth in the statement of Don Lopez Cervantes
Murillo, that Columbus was "brought up by hand"?

P.P.P.S.--Could you give me the aggregate weight of all the children born in the Island of
Formosa, from 1692 to the present time, with the proportion of the sexes, and the average annual
mortality, and any other perfectly useless information respecting that island?

   P. P.

  THE LAST LOOK.

  Naushon, September 22d, 1858.

A SAMPLE OF CONSISTENCY.

Mr. Caleb Cushing,--"the Ajax of the Union," as he has lately been styled,--for what reason
we know not, unless that Ajax is chiefly known to the public as a personage very much in want
of light,--Mr. Caleb Cushing has received an invitation to dine in South Carolina. This extraordinary
event, while it amply accounts for the appearance of the comet, must also be held to answer
for the publication by Mr. Cushing of a letter almost as long, if not quite so transparent,
as the comet's tail. Craytonville is the name of the happy village, already famous as "the
place of the nativity" of Mr. Speaker Orr, and hereafter to be a shrine of pilgrimage, as the
spot where Mr. Cushing might have gone through the beautiful natural processes of mastication
and deglutition, had he chosen. We use this elegant Latinism in deference to Mr. Ex-Commissioner
Cushing; for, as he evidently deemed "birth-place" too simple a word for such a complex character
as Mr. Orr, we could not think of coupling his own name with so common a proceeding as eating
his dinner. It may be sectionalism in us,--but, at the risk of dissolving the Union, we will
not yield to any Southern man a larger share of the dictionary (unless it be Webster's) than
we give to a gentleman who was born at --we beg pardon, the place of whose nativity was--Newburyport.

Mr. Cushing has distinguished himself lately as the preacher-up of a crusade against modern
philanthropy; and we do not wonder at it, if the offer of a dinner be so rare as to demand
in acknowledgment a letter three columns long. Or perhaps he considered the offer itself as
an instance of that insane benevolence which he reprobates, and accordingly punished it with
an epistle the reading of which would delay the consummation of the edacious treason till all
the meats were cold and the more impatient conspirators driven from the table. Or were those
who had invited him negrophilists, (to use Mr. Cushing's favorite word,) and therefore deserving
of such retribution? Not at all; they were all leucophilists, as sincere and warm-hearted as
himself. Or perhaps this letter expresses Mr. Cushing's notion of what a proper answer to a
dinner-invitation should be. We have no "Complete Letter-Writer" at hand, and consequently
cannot compare it with any classic models; but, if we remember rightly, that useful book is
not in as many volumes as the Catalogue of the British Museum is to be, and the examples there
given must necessarily be denied so sea-serpentine a voluminousness. We suspect that the style
is original with the Ex-Brigadier-Attorney-General, but, while we allow it the merit of novelty,
we think there are some grave objections to its universal adoption. It would be a great check
on hospitality; for, by parity of reason, the invitation should be as tedious as the reply,
and a treaty of dinner would take nearly as much time as a treaty of peace. This would be a
great damage to the butchers, whose interests (to borrow a bit of political economy from Mr.
Cushing's letter) are complementary to those of the dinner-giver and the diner. Again, it would
be fatal to all conversation, supposing the dinner at last to take place; for the Amphitryon,
on the one hand, has already exploited everything he knows and does not know, from Sanconiathon,
Manetho, and Berosus, to Dr. Hickok,--and the guests--but the thought of their united efforts
is too appalling. In short, (if we may use that term in connection with such a subject,) we
cannot believe, and certainly do not hope, that Mr. Cushing's system will ever become popular.
Even if it should, we think that an improvement upon it might be suggested. We subjoin a form
of invitation and answer, which any of our readers are at liberty to use, if they should ever
need them.

Punkinopolis, 28th Sept., 1858.

My dear N. N.,

I send, by the bearer, the Correspondence of Horace Walpole and Burke's "Letters on a Regicide
Peace" which are, probably, as entertaining and eloquent as anything I could write. I send
also Cicero "De Amicitia," Brillat-Savarin's "Physiologie du Gout" the Works of Athenæus, and
the "Banquet" of Plato. If, after a perusal of these works, you are not convinced that I entertain
the most friendly feelings towards you, and that I wish you to dine with me on this day twelvemonth,
I do not know what further arguments to employ.

Yours faithfully,

&c. &c.

Baldeagleville, Feb. 10, 1859.

My dear &c. &c.,

The wagon, which accompanies this, will bring you a copy of the "Encyclopaedia Britannica."
The reading of this choice morçeau of contemporary literature will suggest to you nearly all
I have to say in reply to your interesting communication of the 28th September last. By reading,
in succession, the articles Confucius, Fortification, Sandwich Islands, and Æsthetics, you
will form some notion of the mingled emotions with which I remain:

Yours truly,

N.N.

P. S. The amount of time required for mastering the Greek language, in order thoroughly to
enjoy some passages of your charming note, alone prevents me from sending so full an answer
as I should wish.

In these days, when everybody's correspondence is published as soon as he is dead,--or during
his life, if he is unfortunate enough to be the Director of an Observatory, and there is a
chance of injuring him by the breach of confidence,--we cannot help thinking that the forms
we have given above are not only more compendious, but safer, than Mr. Cushing's. If his method
should come into vogue, posterity would be deprived of the letters of this generation for nearly
a century by the time necessary to print them, and then, allowing for the imperious intervals
of sleep, would hardly contrive to get through them in less than a couple of centuries more.
We leave to those who have read Mr. Cushing's reply to the Craytonville invitation the painful
task of estimating the loss to the world from such a contingency. Meanwhile, the perplexing
question arises,--If such be the warrior-statesman's measure of gratitude for a dinner, what
would be his scale for a breakfast or a dish of tea? Cæsar announced a victory in three words;
but in this respect he was very inferior to Mr. Cushing, whose style is much more copious,
and who shows as remarkable talents in the command of language as the other general did in
the command of troops.

On first reading Mr. Cushing's letter, its obscurity puzzled us not a little. There are passages
in it that would have pleased Lycophron himself, who wished he might be hanged if anybody could
understand his poem. Dilution was to be expected in a production whose author had to make three
columns out of "Thank you, can't come." Even a person overrunning with the milk of human kindness,
as Mr. Cushing, on so remarkable an occasion, undoubtedly was, might be pardoned for adopting
the shift of dealers in the dearer vaccine article, and reinforcing his stores from a friendly
pump. The expansiveness of the heart would naturally communicate itself to the diction. But,
on the other hand, repeated experiments failed to detect even the most watery flavor of conviviality
in the composition. The epistles of Jacob Behmen himself are not farther removed from any contamination
with the delights of sense. Was this, then, a mere Baratarian banquet, a feast of reason, to
which Mr. Cushing had been invited? Or did he intend to pay an indirect tribute of respect
to his ancestry by sending what would produce all the hilarious effect of one of those interminable
Puritan graces before meat? No, the dinner was a real dinner,--the well-known hospitality of
South Carolina toward Massachusetts ambassadors forbids any other supposition,--and Mr. Cushing's
letter itself, however dark in some particulars, is clear enough in renouncing every principle
and practice of the founders of New England. We must find, therefore, some other reason why
the Ex-Commander of the Palmetto Regiment, when the Carolinians ask the pleasure of his society,
gives them instead the agreeable relaxation of a sermon,--an example which, we trust, will
not prove infectious among the clergy.

It occurred to us suddenly that the next Democratic National Convention is to assemble in Charleston.
It is not, therefore, too early to send in sealed proposals for the Presidency; and if this
letter is Mr. Cushing's bid, we must do him the justice to say that we think nobody will be
found to go lower. We doubt if it will avail him much; but the precedent of Northern politicians
going South for wool and coming back shorn is so long established, that a lawyer like himself
will hardly venture to take exception to it. Like his great namesake, the son of Jephunneh,
he may bring back a gigantic bunch of grapes from this land of large promise and small fulfilment,
but we fear they will be of the variety which sets the teeth on edge, and fills the belly with
that east wind which might have been had cheaper at home.

If, nevertheless, Mr. Cushing is desirous of being a candidate, it is worth while to consider
what would be the principles on which he would administer the government, and what are his
claims to the confidence of the public. We are beginning to discover that the personal character
of the President has a great deal to do with the conduct of the almost irresponsible executive
head of the Republic. What, then, have been Mr. Cushing's political antecedents, and what is
his present creed?

There are many points of resemblance between his character and career and those of the present
Chancellor of the English Exchequer. Belonging to a part of the country whose opinions are
to all intents and purposes politically proscribed, he has gone over to a party whose whole
policy has tended to harass the commerce, to cripple the manufactures, and to outrage the moral
sense of New England, and has won advancement and prominence in that party by his talents,
contriving at the same time to make his origin a service rather than a detriment. Like Mr.
Disraeli, he has been consistent only in devotion to success. Like him, accomplished, handsome,
plucky, industrious, and dangerous, if unconvincing, in debate, he brings to bear on every
question the immediate force of personal courage and readiness, but none of that force drawn
from persistent principle, whose defeats are tutorings for victory. With a quick eye for the
weak point of an enemy, and a knack of so draping commonplaces with rhetoric that they shall
have the momentary air of profound generalizations, he is also, like him, more cunning in expedients
than capable of far-seeing policy. Adroit in creating and fostering prejudice, acute in drawing
metaphysical distinctions which shall make wrong seem right by showing that it is less wrong
than it appeared, he is unable to see that public opinion is never moulded by metaphysics,
and that, with the people, instinct is as surely permanent as prejudice is transitory. Like
Mr. Disraeli, versatile, he is liable to forget that what men admire as a grace in the intellect
they condemn as a defect in the character and conduct. Gifted, like him, with various talents,
he has one which overshadows all the rest,--the faculty of inspiring a universal want of confidence.
As a popular leader, the advantage which daring would have given him is more than counterpoised
by an acuteness and refinement of mind which have no sympathy with the mass of men, and which
they in turn are likely to distrust from imperfect comprehension. Ill-adapted for the rough-and-tumble
contests of a Democracy, he is admirably fitted to be the minister or the head of an oligarchical
Republic. We wish all our Northern Representatives had the boldness and the abilities, we hope
none of them will be seduced by the example, of Mr. Cushing.

He is one of those able men whose imputed is even greater than their real mental capacity;
because the standard of ordinary men is success, --and success, of a certain kind, is assured
to those mixed characters which combine the virtue of courage with the vice of unscrupulousness.
An ambitious man, like Louis Napoleon, for example, who sets out with those two best gifts
of worldly fortune, a lace with nothing but brass and a pocket with nothing but copper in it,
has a brilliant, if a short, career before him, and will be sure to gain the character of ability;
for if ambition but find selfishness to work upon, it has that leverage which Archimedes wished
for. But time makes sad havoc with this false greatness, with this reputation which passes
for fame, and this adroitness which passes for wisdom, with merely acute minds. When Plausibility
and Truth divided the world between them, the one chose To-day and the other To-morrow.

To enable us to construct a theory of Mr. Cushing's present position, we have two recent productions
in print,--his Fourth of July Oration at New York, and his Letter to the Craytonville Committee.
But he has seen too many aspirants for the Presidency contrive to drown themselves in their
inkstands, and is far too shrewd a man, to elaborate any documentary evidence of his opinions.
If we arrive at them, it must be by a process of induction, and by gathering what evidence
we can from other sources. Mr. Cushing knows very well that the multitude have nothing but
a secondary office in the making of Presidents, and addresses to them only his words, while
the initiated alone know what meaning to put on them. If, for example, when he says servant
he means slave, when he says Negrophilist he means Republican, and when he says false philanthropy
he means the fairest instincts of the human heart, we have a right to suspect that there is
also an esoteric significance in the phrases, Loyalty to the Union, Nationality, and Conservatism.

Had a constituent of Mr. Cushing, in the Essex North District, taken a nap of twenty years,--(and
if he had invited his Representative to dinner, and got such an answer as the Craytonville
letter, the supposition is not extravagant,)--what would have been his amazement, on waking,
to find his Member of Congress haranguing an assembly of Original Democrats in Tammany Hall!
Caius Marcius addressing the Volscian council of war would occur to him as the only historic
parallel for such a rhetorical phenomenon. The one was an ideal, as the other is a commonplace
example of the ludicrous contradictions in which men may be involved, who find in personal
motives the justification of public conduct. That the chairman of the meeting should have had
in his pocket a letter from the candidate of the Buffalo Convention, and that Mr. John Van
Buren should have sat upon the platform, while the orator charged the leaders of the Republican
Party with interested motives, were merely two of those incidental circumstances by which Fact
always vindicates her claim to be more satiric than Fiction. But when Mr. Cushing speaks with
exultation of the past and with confidence of the future of the Original Democratic Party,
we can think of nothing like it but Charles II. taking the Solemn League and Covenant, with
an unctuous allusion to the persecutions WE Covenanters have undergone, and the triumphs of
vital piety to which WE look forward.

Mr. Cushing claims that the Democratic Party has originated and carried through every measure
that has become a part of the settled policy of the government. This is not very remarkable,
if we consider that the party has been in power during by far the greater part of our national
existence, and that under our system the administration is practically a dictatorship for four
years. Mr. Everett long ago pointed out the advantage we should gain by having a responsible
ministry. As it is, the representative branch of our government is practically a nullity. What
with his immense patronage, the progress of events, and the chance of luring the opposing party
into by-questions, the Presidential Micawber of the moment is almost sure that something will
turn up to extricate him from the consequences of his own incompetency or dishonesty. The only
check upon this system is the chance that the temerity engendered by irresponsible power may
lead the executive to measures which, as in the case of Kansas, shall open the eyes of thinking
men to the real designs and objects of those in office. An opposition is necessarily transitory
in its nature, if it be not founded on some principle which, reaching below the shifting sands
of politics, rests upon the primary rock of morals and conscience. In such a principle only
is found the nucleus of a party which the adverse patronage of a corrupt executive can but
strengthen by attracting from it its baser elements. Such an opposition the Democratic Party
seems lately to have devoted all its policy to build up, and now, confronted with it, can find
no remedy but in the abolishment of morals and conscience altogether.

The Democratic Party, like the distinguished ancestor of Jonathan Wild, has been impartially
on both sides of every question of domestic policy which has arisen since it came into political
existence. It has been pro and con in regard to a Navy, a National Bank, Internal Improvements,
Protection, Hard Money, and Missouri Compromise. Its leading doctrine was State Rights; its
whole course of action, culminating in the Dred Scott decision, has been in the direction of
Centralization. During all these changes, it has contrived to have the Constitution always
on its side by the simple application of Swift's axiom, "Orthodoxy is my doxy, Heterodoxy is
thy doxy," though it has had as many doxies as Cowley. Sometimes it has even had two at once,
as in refusing to the iron of Pennsylvania the protection it gave to the sugar of Louisiana.
Pennsylvania avenged herself by the fatal gift of Mr. Buchanan. There is one exception to the
amiable impartiality of the party,--it has been always and energetically pro-slavery. In this
respect Mr. Cushing has the advantage of it, for he has been on both sides of the Slavery question
also. It must be granted, however, that his lapse into Negrophilism was but a momentary weakness,
and that without it the Whig Party would have lost the advantage of his character, and the
lesson of his desertion, in Congress. He is said to be master of several tongues, and it is
therefore quite natural that he should have held a different language at different times on
many different questions.

A creed so various that it seemed to be, not one, but every creed's epitome, could not fail
to be strangely attractive to a mind so versatile as that of Mr. Cushing; yet we cannot deny
to his conversion some remarkable features which give it a peculiar interest. In some respects
his case offers a pleasing contrast to that of the Rev. John Newton; for, as the latter was
converted from slave-trading to Christianity, so Mr. Cushing (whatever he may have renounced)
seems to have embraced something very like the principles which the friend of Cowper abandoned,--another
example of the beautiful compensations by which the balance of Nature is preserved. And his
conversion was sudden enough to have pleased even Jonathan Edwards himself. Up to the ripe
age of forty-two he had been joined to his idols. It is a proverb, that he who is a fool at
forty will be a fool at fourscore; yet Mr. Cushing, who is certainly no fool, had been blind
to the beauties of Original Democracy for a year or two beyond that alliterative era. The Whigs
had just succeeded in electing their candidates, and it seemed as if nothing short of an almost
Providential interposition could save him. That interposition came in the death of General
Harrison, which took away the last earthly hope of Whig advancement. It was what the jockeys
call "a very near thing." But for that,--it is a sad thought,--Mr. Cushing might have been
on our side now. This was the gratia operans. Mr. Tyler, who succeeded to the Presidency, had
Democratic proclivities; this was the gratia coöperans; and finally we see the gratia perficiens
in the appointment of our catechumen to the Chinese Commissionership. From the Central Flowery
Kingdom he returned a full-blown Original Democrat. In 1853, Mr. Pierce, finding himself elected
President for no other reason apparently than that he had failed to distinguish himself in
the Mexican War, appointed Mr. Cushing his Attorney General on the same benevolent principle,--consoling
him for having to sheathe a bloodless sword by giving him a chance to draw the more dangerous
Opinion.

We have alluded only to such facts in Mr. Cushing's history as are fresh in the remembrance
of our readers; and it would not have been worth our while to allude even to these, if he had
not seen fit to speak of the leading men of the Republican Party as "dangerous, because they
have no fixed principle, no stable convictions, no samples of consistency to control their
acts; because their only creed is what has been called the duty of success; and because their
success--the successful accomplishment of a sectional organization of the government on the
ruins of its nationality-- would be the de facto dissolution of the Union." In his Letter he
says also, that "it is a fact humiliating to confess that the cant of negroism still has vogue
as one of the minor instruments of demagoguy in Northern States." The coolness of such charges,
coming from Mr. Cushing, is below the freezing-point of quicksilver. Shall we take lessons
in fixedness of principle from the Whig-Antislavery Member from Federalist Essex?--in stable
convictions from the Tyler-Commissioner to China?--in consistency from the Democratic Attorney-General?--in
an amalgam of all three from the Coalition Judge? Shall we find a more pointed warning of the
worthlessness of success in the words than in the example of the orator? Since Reynard the
Fox donned a friar's hood, and, with the feathers still sticking in his whiskers, preached
against the damnable heresy of hen-stealing, there has been nothing like this!

In China, they set great store by porcelain that has been often broken and mended again with
silver wire, prizing it more highly than that which is sound and fresh from the hands of the
potter. There is a kind of political character of the same description, --hollow-ware, not
generally porcelain, indeed,--cracked in every direction, but deftly bound together with silver
strips of preferment, till it is consistent enough to serve all the need of its possessor in
receiving large messes of the public pottage. How the Chinese would have admired Mr. Tyler's
Commissioner, if they had known the exquisite perfection of crackle displayed in his political
career! To be sure, the Chinese are our antipodes. Fools and dead men are the only people who
never change their opinions or their course of action. It is a loyalty to great ends, an anchored
cling to solid principles, which knows how to swing with the tide, but not to be carried away
by it, that we demand in public men,--and not persistence in prejudice, sameness of policy,
or stolid antagonism to the inevitable. But we demand also that they shall not too lightly
accept Wrong instead of Right, as inevitable; and there is a kind of change that is suspicious
because it is sudden,--and detrimental to the character in proportion as it is of advantage
to the man; and the judgment of mankind allows a well-founded distinction between an alteration
of policy compelled by events, and an abandonment of professed principles tainted with any
suspicion of self-interest. We hold that a Representative is a trustee for those who elected
him, --that his political apostasy only so far deserves the name of conversion as it is a conversion
of what was not his to his own use and benefit; and we have a right to be impatient of instruction
in duty from those whom the hope of promotion could nerve to make the irrevocable leap from
a defeated party to a triumphant one, and who can serve either side, if so they only serve
themselves. It is this kind of freedom from prejudice that has brought down our politics to
the gambling level of the stock-market; it is this kind of unlucky success, and the readiness
of the multitude to forgive and even to applaud it, that justify the old sarcasm, Patibulum
inter et statuam quàm leve discrimen!

It is not for inconsistencies of policy in matters of indifference that we should blame a mart
or a party, but for making questions of honor and morals matters of indifference. Inconsistency
is to be settled, not by seeming discrepancies between the action of one day and that of the
next, but by the experience which enables us to judge of motives and impulses. Time, which
reconciles apparent contradictions, impeaches real ones, and shows a malicious satirical turn,
in forcing men into positions where they must break their own necks in attempting to face both
ways. Nor is it for inconsistency that we condemn the Democratic Party. There are no trade-winds
for the Ship of State, unless it be navigated by higher principles than any the political meteorologists
have yet discovered. But there have been mysterious movements, of late, which raise a violent
presumption that our Democratic captain and officers are altering the rig and adapting the
hold of the vessel to suit the demands of a traffic condemned by the whole civilized world.
They are painting out the old name, letter by letter, and putting "Conservative" in its stead.
They seem to fancy there is such a thing as a slave-trade-wind, and are attempting to beat
up against what they profess to believe a local current and a gust of popular delusion. We
think they are destined to find that they are striving against the invincible drift of Humanity
and the elemental breath of God. It is an ominous consistency with which we charge the Democratic
Party.

Mr. Cushing affirms, that the Republicans have no argument but the "cry of Slavepower!"--which
is as eloquent a one as the old Roman's Delenda est Carthago, to those who know how many years
of bitter experience, how many memories of danger and forebodings of aggression, are compressed
in it. But he is mistaken; Democratic administrations have been busy in supplying arguments,
and we complain rather of their abundance than their paucity. The repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
the Kansas policy, which even office-holders who had gulped their own professions found too
nauseous to swallow, and the Dred Scott decision,--if these be not arguments, then history
is no teacher, and events have no logic.

Mr. Cushing adroitly evades the real matter in issue, and assumes that it is a mere question
of the relative amount of federal office secured by the North and the South respectively. This
may be a very natural view of the case in a man whose map of nationality would seem to be bounded
North by a seat in Congress, East by a Chinese Embassy, West by an Attorney-Generalship, and
South by the vague line of future contingency; but it hardly solves the difficulty. With characteristic
pluck he takes the wolf by the ears. The charge being, that the power of the Slave States has
been gaining a steady preponderance over that of the Free States by means of the federal administration,
he answers it by saying that he has made it a subject of "philosophic study," and has found
that Massachusetts has had a "pretty fair run of the power of the Union,"--whatever that may
be. The phrase is unfortunate, for it reminds one too much of the handsome competence with
which a father once claimed to have endowed his son in giving him the run of the streets since
he was able to go alone. But let us test Mr. Cushing's logic by an equivalent proposition.
He is executor, we will suppose, of an estate to be divided among sixteen heirs; he pays A
his portion, and claims a discharge in full. What would not Mr. Buchanan give for a receipt
by which office-seekers could be so cheaply satisfied!

"Philosophic study," to be sure! It may be easy for gentlemen, the chief part of whose productive
industry has been the holding of office or the preparing of their convictions for the receipt
of more, to be philosophic; but it is not so easy for Massachusetts to be satisfied, when she
sees only those of her children so rewarded who misrepresent her long-cherished principles,
who oppose the spread of her institutions, who mock at her sense of right and her hereditary
love of freedom, and are willing to accept place as an equivalent for the loss of her confidence.
The question, Who is in office? may be of primary importance to Mr. Cushing, but is of little
consequence to the Free States. What concerns them is, How and in what interest are the offices
administered? If to the detriment of free institutions, then all the worse that sons of theirs
can be found to do that part of the work which involves (as affairs are now tending) something
very like personal dishonor. It is no matter of pride to us that the South has never been able
to produce a sailor skilful enough and bold enough to take command of a slaver.

Mr. Cushing affects to see in the history of the Slavery Agitation nothing but a series of
injuries inflicted by the North on the South. He charges "some of the Northern States" with
acts of aggression upon the South "which would have been just cause of war as between foreign
governments." He prudently forbears to name any. Does he mean, that persons have been found
in some of those States unnational enough, un-Original-Democratic enough, to give a cup of
water to a hunted Christian woman, or to harbor an outcast Christian man, without first submitting
their hair to a microscopic examination? Does he mean, that we have said hard things of our
Southern brethren? Grose's "Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue" is open to them as well
as to us, and the Richmond "South" is surely not in the habit of sprinkling the Northern subjects
of its animadversion with rose-water. No,--what Mr. Cushing means is this,--that there are
men at the North who will not surrender the principles they have inherited from three revolutions
because they are threatened with a fourth that will never come,--who do not consider it an
adequate success in our experiment of self-government that we can produce such types of nationality
as reckon the value of their country by the amount of salary she pays,--who will not believe
that there is no higher kind of patriotism than complicity in every violent measure of an administration
which redeems only its pledges to a faction of Southern disunionists,--who will not admit that
slave-holding is the only important branch of national industry, because the profession of
that dogma enables unscrupulous men to enter the public service poor and to leave it rich.
Has any citizen of a Southern State ever failed to obtain justice (that is to say, in the language
of Original Democracy, his nigger) in a Northern court? Has Massachusetts ever mobbed an envoy
or brutally assaulted a Senator of South Carolina? Has any Northern State ever nullified an
article of the Federal Constitution, as every seaboard Slave-State has always done in respect
to the colored citizens of the North? When a man's allowing himself to be kicked comes to be
reckoned an outrage on the kicker, then Mr. Cushing's notion of what constitutes a "just cause
of war" will deserve as much consideration as Mr. G.T. Curtis's theory that hustling a deputy-marshal
is "levying" it. We can remember when the confirmation of an ambassador to England (where the
eminent fitness of the nomination was universally conceded) was opposed by several Southern
Senators on the ground that he had expressed an interest in the success of West India emancipation.
If Original Democrats have their way, it will not be long before it is made constructive treason
to have read that chapter of the Acts of the Apostles which relates the misguided philanthropy
of Philip in endeavoring to convert an Ethiopian into anything but a chattel.

We are inclined to think that a too amiable willingness to be kicked has been generally considered
"just cause of war as between foreign governments,"--especially on the part of the stronger
of the two. History seems to show this,--and also, that the sooner a nation gets over its eccentric
partiality for this kind of appeal to its reasoning faculty, the more likely it is to avoid
the risks of war. At any rate, the forbearance of the South has been such, that, in spite of
the great temptation, she has hitherto refrained from sending her fleets and armies northward,
and we are glad to find that Mr. Cushing is inclined to take a cheerful view of the permanency
of our institutions. He tells us, it is true, in one place, that the success of the Republican
Party would be "the de facto dissolution of the Union"; but in a moment of calmer reflection
he assures us that there are thirty million Americans who stand ready "to devour and swallow
up" the "handful of negrophilist Union-haters." We have great faith in the capacity of the
American people, yet we somewhat doubt whether any one of them could swallow up what he had
already devoured, unless, indeed, he performed that feat which has hitherto been the opprobrium
of Jack-puddings, and jumped down his own throat afterwards. However, a man of Mr. Cushing's
warmth of nature might well find himself carried beyond the regions of ordinary rhetoric in
contemplating so beautiful and affecting a vision, and it is enough that we have the consolation
of knowing that he either spoke with a disregard of the census, which we cannot believe possible
in one so remarkable for accuracy of statement, or that he acquits every man, woman, and child
in the country of any hostility to the Union. It is cheering to have this matter set finally
at rest by so eminent an authority, and we are particularly glad that the necessity for so
painful an experiment in swallowing is a great way off; for, though a "handful" would not go
far among so many, yet, if its components be as unpleasant as Mr. Cushing represents them,
it would certainly give a colic to every patriot who got a bite. After so generous an exculpation
of the American people from any desire to pull their own house about their ears, we are left
to conclude that the only real danger to be apprehended, in case of a Republican success, is
a de facto and de jure dissolution of that union between certain placemen and their places
which has lasted so long that they have come to look on it as something Constitutional. When
that day is likely to arrive, we shall see such samples of consistency, and such instances
of stable conviction, in finding out on which side of their bread the butter lies, as cannot
fail to gratify even Mr. Cushing himself.

But we must not congratulate ourselves too soon. In the interval between the fifth of July,
when his oration was delivered, and the seventh of August, which is the date of the Craytonville
letter, Mr. Cushing seems to have reviewed his opinion on the state of the Union. There is
more cause for alarm than appeared on the surface; but this time it is not because we have
fallen out of love with the South, but that we have become desperately enamored of negroes.
Nurses will have to scare their refractory charges with another bugaboo; for the majority of
Massachusetts infants would jump at the chance of being carried off by the once terrible Ugly
Black Man. Our great danger is from Negrophilism; though Mr. Cushing seems consoled by the
fact, that it is a danger to Massachusetts, and not to South Carolina. We think Mr. Cushing
may calm his disinterested apprehensions. We believe the disease is not so deep-seated as he
imagines; and as we see no reason to fear the immediate catastrophe of the Millennium from
any excess of benevolence on the part of Mr. Cushing and his party toward white men, (whose
cause he professes to espouse,) we are inclined to look forward with composure to any results
that are likely to follow from sporadic cases of sympathy with black ones. There is no reason
for turning alarmist. In spite of these highly-colored forebodings, it will be a great while
before our colored fellow-citizens, or fellow-denizens, (or whatever the Dred Scott decision
has turned them into,) will leave mourning-cards in Beacon Street, or rear mulatto-hued houses
on that avenue which it is proposed to build from the Public Garden into the sunset.

It is adroit in Mr. Cushing thus to shift the front of his defence, but it is dreadfully illogical.
It is very convenient to make it appear that this is a quarrel of races; for, in such a case,
a scruple of prejudice will go farther than a hundredweight of argument. In assuming to be
the champion of the downtrodden whites against the domineering blacks, Mr. Cushing enlists
on his side the sympathy and admiration which are sure to follow the advocate of the weak and
the defenceless. He comes home to New England, finds his own color proscribed, and at once
takes the part of amicus curiæ for the weak against the strong in the forum of Humanity. We
do not wonder, that a gentleman, who has devoted so much ingenuity, so much time and talent,
to making black appear white, should at last deaden the nicety of his sense for the distinction
between the two, and thus reverse the relation of the two colors; but we do wonder, that, in
choosing Race as a convenient catchword, he should not see that he is yielding a dangerous
vantage-ground to the Native American Party, whose principles he seems so pointedly to condemn.
We say seems, --for he is carefully indefinite in his specifications, and hedges his opinions
with a thicket of ambiguous phrases, which renders it hard to get at them, and leaves opportunity
for future evasion. If a war of race be justifiable in White against Black, why not in so-called
Anglo-Saxons against Kelts? The one is as foolish and as wicked as the other, and the only
just method of solution is the honest old fair field and no favor, under which every race and
every individual man will assume the place destined to him in the order of Providence. We have
a great distrust of ethnological assumptions; for there is, as yet, no sufficient basis of
observed fact for legitimate induction, and the blood in the theorist's own veins is almost
sure to press upon the brain and disturb accurate vision, or his preconceptions to render it
impossible. Gervinus reads the whole history of Europe in the two words, Teutonic and Romanic;
Wordsworth believed that only his family could see a mountain; Dr. Prichard, led astray by
a mistaken philanthropy, believed color to be a matter of climate; and Dr. Nott considers that
the outline shown by a single African hair on transverse section is reason enough for the oppression
of a race. If the black man be radically inferior to the white, or radically different from
him, the folly of white-washing him will soon appear. But, on the other hand, if his natural
relation to the white man be that of slave to master, our Southern brethren have wasted a great
deal of time in prohibitory and obscurantist legislation; they might as well have been passing
acts to prevent the moon from running away, or to make the Pleiades know their place.

It will be a blessed day for the world when men are as willing to help each other as they are
to assist Providence. The "London Cotton-Plant," a journal established to sustain the interests
of Slavery in the Old World, is almost overpowered with acute distress for the Order of Creation,
and offers its sustaining shoulder to the System of the Universe. "Fear nothing," it seems
to say, "glorious structure of the Divine Architect! Giddings shall not touch you, nor shall
Seward lay his sacrilegious hand on you!" "Who are ye?" murmurs the Voice, "that would reedit
the works of the Almighty?" "Sublime, but misguided object of our compassion, we prefer to
remain in the modest seclusion of namelessness, but we are published at Red-Lion Court, Fleet
Street, and are sold for one shilling!" To judge from Mr. Cushing's letter, he has studied
this organ of the sympathizers with the Pre-established Harmonies,--certainly there is a singular
coincidence in the sentiments of both, so far as we can make them out. Both call themselves
conservative, both are anti-philanthropists, both claim that public opinion is tending in the
direction of their views, both affirm that their cause is that of the white man, and both appear
to mean by white man the same thing,--the owner of a slave.

But is not Mr. Cushing's anxiety misdirected, and wilfully so, in seeking the material for
its forebodings of danger to the Union in the Free States? The only avowed disunionists of
the North are the radical Abolitionists, whose position is the logical result of their admitting
that under the Constitution it is impossible to touch Slavery where it exists, and who, therefore,
seek in a dissolution of the federal compact an escape from complicity with what they believe
an evil and a wrong,--with what, till within the last twenty years, was conceded to be such
by the South itself. If Mr. Cushing be so great an admirer of stability in conviction, he might
have found in these men the subject of something other than vituperation. There are men among
them who might have won the foremost places of political advancement, could they have sacrificed
their principles to their ambition, could they believe that public honors would heal as well
as hide the wounds of self-respect. It is the South that advocates disunion, from sectional
motives, and adds the spice of treason. The "London Cotton-Plant" says,--

  "If she [the South] is denied 'equality'
  within the Union, she can have 'independence'
  out of it. Already in European cabinets
  the possibility of this contingency is
  contemplated. We but perform a public duty
  when we tell Mr. Douglas that there is in
  Europe more than one power able and willing
  and prepared to take the Cotton States of America,
  and with them the other 'Slave'-States,
  so-called by free-negroists, under their protection,
  as valuable and desirable allies ... And
  more, he can say by authority that she [the
  South] has active and successful agents in every
  part of Europe preparing the way for equal existence,
  commercially as well as politically, so
  long as the Union exists, or the active support of
  powerful allies, if driven as a last resort to appeal
  to the civilized world against tyranny and
  oppression." [1]

But what does the "Cotton-Plant" understand by "equality"? Nothing less than the reopening
of the slave-trade. Speaking of the chance that the captured slaves of the "Echo" would be
sent back to Africa, and resenting such a procedure as "a brand upon our section and upon our
social condition," it affirms that:

  "This labor-question of the South does
  not depend upon such miserable clap-trap
  as Kansas or the Fugitive Slave Law. It
  rests upon a full, open, and deliberate recognition
  of the rights of the Southern people;
  and the Senator from Illinois, by moving the
  abrogation of the so-called slave-trade treaty
  with England, allowing the South to supply herself
  with labor as she may see fit, would give,
  indeed, unquestioned assurance of his disposition
  and courage to follow the principle of the
  white-basis to its logical and constitutional consequence."

It declares that the sending home of the Africans would be "a practical reversal of the Dred
Scott decision," and adds,--"We have no fear that our people will long remain passive under
such an accumulating weight of inequality." [2]

Is not this explicit enough? and does not the "white-basis" sufficiently explain what is meant
by the systematic depreciation of the colored race in Mr. Cushing's letter?

The Democratic Party is the party of "Progress." What is the direction of that progress likely
to be? What is the lesson of the past? Hitherto this party has been the ally and the tool,
not of the moderate, but of the extreme propagandas of the South. The Carolinians with their
Scotch blood received also a strong infusion of Scotch logic. They felt that their system was
inconsistent with the immortal assertion of Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence, and
with the principles of the Revolution,--that its extension was a direct reversal of the creed
and the policy of the men by whom our frame of government was established. They accepted the
alternative, and assumed the aggressive. The principles of the Revolution must be crushed out,
the traditions of the Fathers of the Republic repudiated,--and that, too, by means of the party
calling itself Democratic, through which alone the South could control the policy of the government.

Accordingly, a reaction was put in motion and steadily pressed, precisely similar in kind to
that organized by Louis Napoleon against the principles of the French Revolution, and supported
by precisely the same warnings of the danger of civil commotion, and by appeals to the timidity
of Property and the cupidity of Trade. The party which had so long vaunted the derivation of
its fundamental truth from the Law of Nature was compelled to make it a part of its creed that
there was nothing higher than an ordinance of man. The party of State-Rights was forced to
proclaim that a decision of the Supreme Court was sovereign over all the rights of the States.
The party whose leading dogma it is, that all power proceeds from and resides in the people,
that all government rests on the consent of the governed, was driven into refusing to submit
a constitution to the people whose destiny was to be decided by it. And all this has been done,
not for the security of Slavery where it exists, but to serve the truculent purposes of its
indefinite extension. To acquiesce in the honesty and justice of such a course of policy as
the last few years have shown, to assist in inaugurating a future that shall accord with it,
is nationality and conservatism! No wonder Mr. Cushing is charmed with the consistency of his
new allies. Do they propose to steal Cuba?--they are the party who would extend the area of
Freedom. Do they make Slavery a matter of federal concern by means of the Supreme Court?--they
are the party who maintain that it is an affair of local law. Do they disfranchise a race?--they
are the party of equal rights. And the whole wretched imbroglio of creed which is the condemnation
of their action, and of action, which is the death of their creed, is dubbed Nationality. If
sectionalism be the reverse of all this, we confess that we prefer sectionalism. It is a nationality
which has no Northern half, a conservatism which abolishes all our heroic traditions.

If the Democratic Party has been urged to such extreme measures and such motley self-stultification
by the pressure of the South, if every downward step has been only the more likely to be taken
because it seemed impossible six months before, what are we not to look for, now that its leaders
are emboldened by success, and its lieutenants are eager for more plunder at the easy price
of more perfidy? Already, as we have seen, the reopening of the slave-trade is demanded; already
fresh enactments are called for, expressly to render it in future impossible for the people
of a Territory to loosen the grip of Slavery, as those of Kansas have done. And to prepare
the way for this, we are forced to hear continual homilies on the supremacy of law, on what
are called "legal conscience" and "legal morality,"--phrases which sound well, but cover nothing
more than the absurd fallacy, that everything is legal which can by any hocus-pocus be got
enacted. The doctrine, that there is no higher law than the written statute, is but one of
the symptoms of the steady drift of our leading politicians toward materialism, toward a faith
which makes the products of man's industry of more value than man himself, and finds the god
of this lower world in the law of demand and supply. "Cotton is King!" say such reasoners as
Mr. Cushing;--"Conscience is King!" said such actors as the Puritans. To have a moral sense
may be very unwise, very visionary, very unphilosophic; but most men are foolish enough to
have one, and the enforcing of any law which wounds it is sure to arouse a resistance thoroughly
pervading their whole being and lasting as life itself. The carrying away of a single fugitive[3]
gave the Republicans a tenure of power in Massachusetts, as firm, and likely to be as enduring,
as that of the Whigs was once. The propagandists of Slavery overreached themselves when they
compelled the people of the North to be their accomplices. The higher law is not a thing men
argue about, but act upon. People who admit the right of property a thousand miles off go back
to first principles when the property comes to their door in the upright form of man and appeals
for sympathy with a human voice.

Mr. Cushing represents Massachusetts to be a Babel of isms, so many square miles of Bedlam,
from Boston Corner to Provincetown. Is this intended as a depreciation of our free institutions,
by showing the results to which they inevitably lead? Has a Rarey for vicious hobbies been
a desideratum so long, and has such a benefactor of his species found his avatar at last in
Mr. Cushing? He tells us, however, that the delusion of Negrophilism, that is, Republicanism,
is on the wane, and is destined to speedy extinction. The very extravagancies he speaks of
as so rife and so rampant are to us evidence of the contrary. They prove the depth to which
the religious instincts of the Northern people have been stirred upon the question of Slavery.
Such extravagancies have accompanied every great moral movement of mankind. The Reformation,
the great Puritan Rebellion, the French Revolution, brought them forth in swarms. A profound
historical thinker, Gervinus, remarks, that the political enthusiasm of a nation is slow to
warm and swift to cool, but that its moral enthusiasm is quickly stirred and long in subsiding.
Thinking men will ask themselves whether the isms Mr. Cushing enumerates be not the external
symptoms of such an enthusiasm,--and whether it be wise, under the names of "Nationality" and
"Conservatism," to urge aggressions to the point where it becomes the right and the duty of
men to consider the terrible necessity of a change in their system of government; whether it
be unpatriotic to resist the extension of a system which makes the mass of the population an
element of danger and weakness in the body politic, as its advocates admit by their scheme
for a foreign protectorate of their proposed independent organization,--a system which renders
public education impossible, exhausts the soil, necessitates sparseness of population, and
demoralizes the governing classes.[4]

The ethical aspects of Slavery are not and cannot be the subject of consideration with any
party which proposes to act under the Constitution of the United States. Nor are they called
upon to consider its ethnological aspect. Their concern with it is confined to the domain of
politics, and they are not called to the discussion of abstract principles, but of practical
measures. The question, even in its political aspect, is one which goes to the very foundation
of our theories and our institutions. It is simply, --Shall the course of the Republic be so
directed as to subserve the interests of aristocracy or of democracy? Shall our Territories
be occupied by lord and serf, or by intelligent freemen?--by laborers who are owned, or by
men who own themselves? The Republican Party has no need of appealing to prejudice or passion.
In this case, there is a meaning in the phrase, Manifest Destiny. America is to be the land
of the workers, the country where, of all others, the intelligent brain and skilled hand of
the mechanic, and the patient labor of those who till their own fields, are to stand them in
greatest stead. We are to inaugurate and carry on the new system which makes Man of more value
than Property, which will one day put the living value of industry above the dead value of
capital. Our republic was not born under Cancer, to go backward. Perhaps we do not like the
prospect? Perhaps we love the picturesque charm with which novelists and poets have invested
the old feudal order of things? That is not the question. This New World of ours is to be the
world of great workers and small estates. The freemen whose capital is their two hands must
inevitably become hostile to a system clumsy and barbarous like that of Slavery, which only
carries to its last result the pitiless logic of selfishness, sure at last to subject the toil
of the many to the irresponsible power of the few.

It may temporarily avail the Party of Slavery-Extension to announce itself as the party of
the white man, of the sacredness of property, and the obligation of law; it may draw to their
ranks a few well-meaning persons, whose easy circumstances make them uneasy,--a few leaders
of defunct parties, with a general capacity for misdirection and nobody to misdirect; but it
will avail the Republican Party more to claim and to prove that it is the party of Man, no
matter what his color or creed or race,--of the sacredness of that property which every human
being has in himself,--and of the obligation of that law which outlives legislatures and statute-books,
and is the only real security of all law. The cry of "Conservatism" may be efficacious for
a season; but time will make plainer and plainer the distinction between the false conservatism
which for its own benefit would keep things as they are, which smooths imminent ruin delusively
over, as Niagara is smoothest on the edge of the abyss, and that true conservatism which works
upon things as they are, to prepare them for what they must be,--recognizes the necessity of
change, to forestall revolution with healthy development,--and believes that there is no real
antagonism between Old and New, but only a factitious one, the result of man's obstinacy or
self-seeking.

[Footnote 1: London Cotton-Plant, 21st August, 1858.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid. 18th September. 1858.]

[Footnote 3: It is a coincidence that the recapture of runaways did more than anything else
to abolish villanage in England.]

[Footnote 4: See COBB on Slavery, (Philadelphia: T. & J.W. Johnson & Co., 1858,) where these
admissions are made. (Introd. pp. 218-220.) This work, written by Mr. Thomas R. R. Cobb, of
Georgia, is, considering the natural prepossessions of the author, singularly calm and candid.
We commend it to our readers, as bringing together a great deal of information, and still more
as showing the remarkable change which has come over the Southern mind, even among moderate
men, on the subject of Slavery. We shall take a future occasion to notice it more fully.]

LITERARY NOTICES. 1858.

Two doctrines, each containing a fraction of truth, have lain soaking in the mind of our free-and-easy
community so long, that what strength they had is well-nigh got out of them.

Doctrine the first is, that a man who has devoted himself to a particular calling is to be
considered necessarily ignorant thereof, --and that certain babes and sucklings in that particular
branch of knowledge, and all others, are to be accepted as the true oracles with regard to
its mysteries. Doctrine the second is, that every new theory accepted by any number of persons
has some important truth at the bottom of it.

The first of these doctrines has its real meaning. It is true that there may be a common feeling
of justice in the minds of ignorant people which shall override the decisions of a learned
Chief Justice. It is true that a man may brutalize himself by a contemplation of theological
cruelties, until decent parents are ashamed to have their children listen to his libels on
the Father of All. It is true that a physician may become such a drug-peddling routinist, that
sensible mothers see through him, and know enough to throw his trash out of the window as soon
as he turns his back.

The second doctrine has its real meaning. Until men turn into beasts, they must have some arguments
addressed to their reason before they will believe, and still more before they will act. Spiritualism
has its significance, as an appeal from the gross materialism and heathen ideas of another
life so commonly entertained. Mormonism has its logic, as an appeal from the enforced celibacy
of one sex, and to the Oriental Abrahamic instincts of the other. Homoeopathy has its fraction
of sanity, as a protest against that odious tendency of physicians to give nauseous stuff to
people because they are ailing, which sickened the pages of old pharmacopoeias with powders
of earthworms and album Græcum, and even now makes illness terrible where it reigns unrebuked.

Swallow these two paragraphs of concession as the infusion drawn from those two doctrines laid
down at starting, and throw away the effete axioms as fit only for old women to coddle and
drench themselves withal. Having done this, the reader is ready for the book the title of which
we have prefixed.

DR. BIGELOW'S name is a guaranty that it shall contain many thoughts in not over-many words.
It is a pledge that we shall be emancipated from all narrow technicalities and officinal idols,
while following his guidance. As a man of rare sagacity and wide range of knowledge, a man
of science before he became a leading practitioner in the highest range of his profession,
a philosopher whom his fellows have thought worthy to preside over their deliberations, a physician
whom his brethren have honored with their highest office, though no man among them ever assailed
the pleasing and profitable delusions of his craft so sharply,--he may well be listened to,
even though he has given his life to the subject on which he writes.

As this little book is neither (to speak in pharmaceutic phrase) the water, nor the spirit,
but the very essential oil, of the author's thoughts on the matters of which he treats, it
is only by a destructive analysis we can resolve it into its elements. We shall only touch
upon its contents, and recommend the book itself to all who have ever known sickness, or expect
ever to know it, or to have a friend liable to it.

"The Paradise of Doctors" is a pleasant bait to those wary readers who will bite at the bare
hook of quackery, but must be tempted before they will venture into a book of medicine which
has not lying as its staple material.

Then comes a consideration of the five methods of treating
disease now most prevalent in civilized countries; namely,
  1. The Artificial.
  2. The Expectant.
  3. The Homoeopathic.
  4. The Exclusive.
  5. The Rational.

Perfect candor, perfect clearness, the good-nature of a successful man above all petty jealousies,
the style of a scholar who has hardly an equal among us in his profession and few equals out
of it, the honesty which belongs to science, and the acuteness which is conferred by practice
mark this brief essay. It follows in the same course of thought as the admirable "Discourse
on Self-limited Diseases," the delivery of which many years ago marked the commencement of
a new epoch in the movement of the medical mind among us. An hour's reading given to this new
lesson of wisdom will turn many a self-willed, proud-hearted medical skeptic into a humble
and consistent patient of the regular profession.

Thoughts on Matter and Force: or Marvels that encompass us: comprising Suggestions illustrative
of the Theory of the Universe. By THOMAS EWBANK. New York: D. Appleton & Co. London: Trübner
& Co. 1858.

The human longing for the Infinite is as strong now as it was when the first ology, aiming
to grasp it, conceived its first myth, and comprehended something so far below what humanity
itself now is or knows, that we use it, along with the more recent productions of Mrs. Goose,
to amuse children. This persistent trait in human nature is truly noble, however fruitless.
But it is not altogether fruitless. Though the intellectual world has really come no nearer
the object of its search, it has advanced far beyond its starting-point, and made valuable
progress, which a lower motive could never have prompted. The wisest of mean men, as he was
the meanest of wise ones, did very well to check the metaphysical modes and tendencies of human
study, and advise the previous comprehension of facts within reach. This worldly wisdom has
already made us all wonderfully rich in the chariots and horses of thought. The consequence
is, we now rush forth into the infinite in various directions, and, from inconceivable distances
of time and space, bring home marvels that are truly sublime.

Mr. Ewbank's "Suggestions" are of this sort, though the turn-out with which he has been exploring
the boundless is not, perhaps, quite up to the latest improvements in the Baconian carriage-factory,
There can be no doubt of the boldness with which his really modest and unpretending little
book grapples with the largest of all subjects, whatever we may think of its success. Postulating,
for the purpose of his cosmogony, two, and only two, absolute entities, --matter and spirit,--Mr.
Ewbank makes force a property or attribute of the former, which the latter can only direct
or make use of, not originate. He does not admit that spirit can overcome the inertia of matter.
Whatever inertia may be, it is superable or destructible only by the force or motion of matter
itself,--matter being incapable of rest. "Instead of matter being innately inert," says Mr.
Ewbank, "as many think, motion is its natural condition." How the spiritual direction--or shall
we call it bossing?--of motion or force (which only, according to Mr. Ewbank, produces results)
applies itself,--what is its point d'appui, its mode of modifying, its why of causing,--he
does not attempt to explain to us. He recognizes the universal gravitating or contractile force,
from which, as successive sequences, proceed heat and expansion; but he does not suggest that
spirit has any more to do with the first than with any succeeding term in the series. It exerts
no force, moves nothing; yet spirit produces all the results. "No regular or useful form,"
says our author, "can be produced by unbridled force. Intelligence must be present." So it
is the business of the spirit to bridle force, --or matter's motion,--mount the restless steed,
and ride to a purpose! Shall we ever see the bits of that bridle?

On the subject of material form, we find the following passage, which, while, perhaps, the
most original in the book, is to us the least instructive:--

"However multiplied interior actions may be, the universe, as a whole, must have a common movement,
or none. One division cannot, in relation to the rest, stand still, lag behind, fly off, or
diverge from its place, without destroying all unity. The earth is full of motions; but they
do not interfere with her general and uniform motion. So it is with the universal orb: its
rotation is, we believe, fundamental,--the basis of all other movements, without which there
could be none other.

"In everything, there is virtue in FORM; and we surmise that vastly more depends on the configuration
and movement of matter as one mass, than has been suspected. As perfect a whole as any of its
parts, must not the universe have a definable outline or shape,--one to which nothing amorphous
can possibly belong? What is its figure? It can hardly be a cube, cylinder, or prism of any
kind; indeed, we might as reasonably suppose it a three-sided figure as one bounded at all
by straight lines. No one extending in one direction more than in another could have met the
exigencies of creation; and that the universe is a sphere may also be inferred from fluid matter
naturally assuming that form,--perhaps because its elements have it. Had atoms been bounded
by plane surfaces, so, we may suppose, had worlds, drops of water, and soap-bubbles.

"The universe is spherical, then, because its molecules are: and it moves, because they are
incapable of rest."

Does this mean that the totality of matter is finite?--that it can be viewed, spiritually,
from the outside,--even from such a distance as to appear infinitely small? If so, can there
be infinite power, either material or spiritual? If the universe is spherical because its molecules
are, can the molecules compose any other than the spherical form? Do we gain much by reasoning
from an assumption below the ken of the microscope to a conclusion above that of the telescope?

Mr. Ewbank, however, does not often indulge in a logical stride so long or on such shaky footing
as this. Through more or less cloudiness of expression, he gives us many striking and satisfactory
views, looking towards a complete synthesis of the glorious system of things to which we belong,
makes out the universe as habitable and cheerful as it is wide, and leaves us admiring its
good more than marvelling at its evil. He maintains that all solar and planetary bodies have
a central, vital heat, produced and maintained by the same cause,--to wit, the gravitating
or condensing force; its intensity being as the mass. In the sun, the mass is so great, that,
in spite of its inferior density, more and intenser heat is generated by condensation than
in any or all of the planets. If the whole orb is not incandescent, there is such intense heat
in its central portion as to generate gases, which, being thrown up through its atmosphere,
to a height at least as great as the whole diameter of our globe, condense there again with
an ineffably brilliant combustion. The solid crust of the sun, he thinks, may be comparatively
cool,--as cool, perhaps, as our tropical climates,--by the favor of cloud-curtains, which operate
as screens, and reflect off into space the heat of the combustion overhead. He might have given
more reasons than he has for this conclusion. Whether our terrestrial aurora-borealis is caused
by the combustion of gases that have been generated by internal heat or not, we know that the
combustion of gas in the upper regions of our atmosphere would not warm the surface of the
earth much more than it would that of the moon. It is easy enough to make out, from facts which
our terrene science has revealed to us, how the sun may be a perpetual fountain of light, heat,
and force to its most distant planets, without having itself any superabundance of either of
these emanations for its own domestic consumption. The solar population may have no more sunshine
than we do, and may have even that mitigated with the luxury of ice-creams, if not with that
of arctic explorations and polar bears. Whether they have as good opportunities as we for astronomical
observations is a little doubtful; but their thermological studies must flourish abundantly,
to say nothing of their advantages in pyrotechnics. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 346
and 348, Broadway. 1858.

The name of Mr. Goadby is embalmed in a preservative solution invented by him and known as
Goadby's Fluid. Those who have visited the Royal College of Surgeons in London tell us of very
exquisite anatomical preparations made by him while employed as Minute Dissector to that institution.
We are grateful to Mr. Goadby for consecrating his narrow but sure immortality and his excellent
mechanical talent to the service of the New World and especially of the State of Michigan.

It does not follow from this that Mr. Goadby has written a good book on Animal and Vegetable
Physiology, nor that he could write such a book. Starting with this proposition, we are candid
rather than sanguine as we open the volume. We find that it is not in any true sense a treatise
upon Physiology, but chiefly upon the Minute Anatomy of Animals and Vegetables, with some incidental
physiological commentaries.

On closer examination, we find it to be the work of a microscopist, and not that of a physiologist
or a scholar. Its merits are principally its illustrations, many of which are from original
dissections, some of which are very good diagrams, others ordinary, and some--such as the view
of the human brain and spinal chord on page 282--wretched. The colored figures are washed with
dull tints in a very shabby and negligent way. The text is mainly an account of the objects
illustrated in the figures, and will prove interesting to the working microscopist as explaining
the observations of a skilful dissector. As a "Text-Book of Physiology for Schools and Colleges,"
it is of course without value.

English microscopists, if we might judge by this work and that of Mr. Hassall, are not remarkable
for scholarship. The showy and in some respects valuable work of the latter gentleman was disgraced
by constant repetitions of gross blunders in spelling. Mr. Goadby is not much above his countryman
in literary acquirements, if we may judge by his treatment of the names of Schwann and Lieberkuhn,
whom he repeatedly calls Schawn and Leiberkuhn, and by the indignity which he offers to the
itch-insect by naming it Aearus Scabiæi. It is not necessary to give further examples; but,
if the general statement be disputed, we are prepared to speckle the book with corrections
until it looks like a sign-board with a charge of small shot in it.

Nothing that we have said must be considered as detracting from Mr. Goadby's proper merits
as an industrious and skilful specialist, who is more able with his microscope than with his
pen, and more at home with the latter in telling us what he has seen than in writing a general
treatise on so vast a subject as Physiology.

Lettres de Silvio Pellico, recueillies et mises en ordre, par M. GUILLAUME STEFANI. Traduites
et précédées d'une Introduction, par M. ANTOINE DE LATOUR. Paris: 1857. pp. liii, 493. 8 vo.

Silvio Pellico is one of the most touching ghosts that glide through the chambers of the memory.
Even the rod of the pedagogue and the imprisonment of the school-room (for it has been the
misfortune of "Le mie Prigioni" to be doomed to serve as a "class-book" to beginners in modern
languages) have proved unable to diminish the sympathy felt for the Spielberg prisoner.

This volume will increase his pure fame. It will be read with painful interest. It will do
more for Italian independence than all the ravings of revolutionary manifestoes and all the
poignard-strokes of political assassins which can be written or given from now till doomsday.
No one can read it without a swelling heart and a tear-filled eye, for it discloses involuntarily
and indirectly the unspeakable unhappiness of Italy. Here are the sad accounts of some loved
friend or admired countryman snatched away to prison, or hurried into exile, for a letter written,
or a visit paid, or an intemperate speech uttered; while no preparation is made for the long
departure, and papers, even the most familiar and prized, are seized and never restored. Another
page presents the exile's struggles for daily bread, his privations, his longings for the Italian
sun and sky and soil, for the native land; another, the earnest prayer from jail-walls for
the Bible, for books upon our Saviour's sufferings (nothing less than voices from heaven can
breathe comfort in Austrian dungeons!) Then the moving letters written from one prisoner's
family to another's (yesterday unacquainted, to-day near kinsmen in the bonds of sorrow) to
sustain each other in the common afflictions, craving with avidity the least intelligence from
the living tombs of tyranny, sharing with generous alacrity all their tidings. How musically
endearing Italian diminutives fall upon the ear employed in this office! Here we have Pellico's
own letters to his parents to calm their natural grief, filled with pious concealment of his
own mental and bodily torment, with encouragements to hope an early pardon, and to turn their
eyes to Religion, which never yet refused consolation to the afflicted. We have never read
a more distressing letter than he wrote to his family, when, at last pardoned, he was once
more free. Seven years had passed away since he heard from them; he knew not if one still lived
to welcome him home,--if his kindred had forgotten, or execrated him as one who had dragged
their common parents sorrowing and gray-haired down to the grave. Has the world among all its
manifold sorrows any sorrow like unto this?

The late M. de Lamennais was wont to speak with contempt of Silvio Pellico, as being a weak,
spiritless craven, who accepted with resignation when he should have plotted to end the thraldom
of his country. Yet what can a man do, when the classes above him and those below him, when
noble and priest and peasant, live contented in the silence of despotism, (calling it peace,)
without one thought of other days, without one sentiment of pride in the deeds of their illustrious
forefathers? What is a Christian's duty, when his country is bled and plundered and ground
down to the dust under the iron heel of military despotism, when the political fabric of his
native land is crumbling, and his countrymen are listless, selfish, sensual, unpatriotic, not
unhappy so long as their bellies are filled and their backs covered? Shall he lift his streaming
eyes to heaven with the resigned ejaculation, "Father, not my will, but thine, be done"? --or
shall he, in holy despair, throw his life away on Austrian bayonets? Terrible problem!

The Household Book of Poetry. Collected and edited by CHARLES A. DANA. New York: D. Appleton
& Co. 1858. pp. 798.

This book contains extracts from upwards of three hundred authors of all periods and countries.
It is made more complete by the addition of some of the most famous Latin hymns and canticles
of the Church. The different pieces are classified upon a judicious system. It is handsomely
printed, and not cumbrous in form. What can we say more in its praise? Only this,--that, after
giving it a pretty thorough examination, we are satisfied that it is the best collection in
the language. Individual tastes and idiosyncrasies will, of course, find some wants to lament,
and some superfluities to condemn. A book containing so much from living writers will excite
jealousies; and the writers themselves will, in some cases, be dissatisfied with the selections
made from their works. But what the general reader asks is only, whether the compiler has shown
skill in suiting the general taste, as well as judgment in directing it. We think this collection
the most catholic and impartial we have ever seen. That is the highest praise we can bestow,
and it implies that the editor has attained the success most difficult as well as essential
in such an undertaking.

Curiosities of Literature. By ISAAC DISRAELI. 4 vols. Boston: William Veazie. 1858.

Possessing this book, Robinson Crusoe might have enjoyed all the pleasures of what Dr. Johnson
called "browsing in a library," and that a large and choice one. It contains in itself all
the elements of a liberal education in out-of-the-way-ness.

Everybody knows and likes this Museum Absconditum, as Sir Thomas Browne would have called it,--and
we take particular pleasure in being able to recommend to our readers so beautiful an edition
of it. It is in all respects equal to the handsomest kind of English printing, and has the
added merit of being cheap. It is from the press of Houghton & Company, which has done so much
to raise the standard of American printing. If Mr. Houghton go on as he has begun, his name
will deserve a place with those of Elzevir, Baskerville, Foulis, and others of his craft, who
have done good books the justice of a mechanical that matches their intellectual workmanship.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have not space in this number to give Mr. White's Shakspeare the welcome it deserves. We
have examined it with some care, and can speak with decision of its very great merits. It is
characterized by taste, industry, and conscientiousness. We believe it to be, in all essential
respects, the best--it is certainly the most beautiful--edition of Shakspeare. This is also
from the press of Houghton & Company.

       *       *       *       *       *

We notice with pleasure among recent literary announcements those of a History of France, by
Parke Godwin, Esq., and of New England, by Dr. J.G. Palfrey. Both are desiderata, and the reputation
of the authors is such as to warrant the highest anticipations.