A few days after taking the oath as a servant of the King in solemn session, and undergoing
the ceremony of presentation to the assembled orchestra by means of an enthusiastic speech
from the general director, I was summoned to an audience with his Majesty. When I saw the features
of the kind, courteous, and homely monarch, I involuntarily thought of my youthful attempt
at a political overture on the theme of Friedrich und Freiheit. Our somewhat embarrassed conversation
brightened with the King's expression of his satisfaction with those two of my operas which
had been performed in Dresden. He expressed with polite hesitation his feeling that if my operas
left anything to be desired, it was a clearer definition of the various characters in my musical
dramas. He thought the interest in the persons was overpowered by the elemental forces figuring
beside them--in Hienzi the mob, in the Fliegender Hollander the sea. I thought I understood
his meaning perfectly, and this proof of his sincere sympathy and original judgment pleased
me very much. He also made his excuses in advance for a possible rare attendance at my operas
on his part, his sole reason for this being that he had a peculiar aversion from theatre-going,
as the result of one of the rules of his early training, under which he and his brother John,
who had acquired a similar aversion, were for a long time compelled regularly to attend the
theatre, when he, to tell the truth, would often have preferred to be left alone to follow
his own pursuits independent of etiquette.

As a characteristic instance of the courtier spirit, I afterwards learned that Luttichau, who
had had to wait for me in the anteroom during this audience, had been very much put out by
its long duration. In the whole course of my life I was only admitted twice more to personal
intercourse and speech with the good King. The first occasion was when I presented him with
the dedication copy of the pianoforte score of my Rienzi; and the second was after my very
successful arrangement and performance of the Iphigenia in Aulis, by Gluck, of whose operas
he was particularly fond, when he stopped me in the public promenade and congratulated me on
my work.

That first audience with the King marked the zenith of my hastily adopted career at Dresden;
thenceforward anxiety reasserted itself in manifold ways. I very quickly realised the difficulties
of my material situation, since it soon became evident that the advantage won by new exertions
and my present appointment bore no proportion to the heavy sacrifices and obligations which
I incurred as soon as I entered on an independent career. The young musical director of Riga,
long since forgotten, suddenly reappeared in an astonishing reincarnation as royal conductor
to the King of Saxony. The first-fruits of the universal estimate of my good fortune took the
shape of pressing creditors and threats of prosecution; next followed demands from the Konigsberg
tradesmen, from whom I had escaped from Riga by means of that horribly wretched and miserable
flight. I also heard from people in the most distant parts, who thought they had some claim
on me, dating even from my student, nay, my school days, until at last I cried out in my astonishment
that I expected to receive a bill next from the nurse who had suckled me. All this did not
amount to any very large sum, and I merely mention it because of the ill-natured rumours which,
I learned years later, had been spread abroad about the extent of my debts at that time. Out
of three thousand marks, borrowed at interest from Schroder-Devrient, I not only paid these
debts, but also fully compensated the sacrifices which Kietz had made on my behalf, without
ever expecting any return, in the days of my poverty in Paris. I was, moreover, able to be
of practical use to him. But where was I to find even this sum, as my distress had hitherto
been so great that I was obliged to urge Schroder-Devrient to hurry on the rehearsals of the
Fliegender Hollander by pointing out to her the enormous importance to me of the fee for the
performance? I had no allowance for the expenses of my establishment in Dresden, though it
had to be suitable for my position as royal conductor, nor even for the purchase of a ridiculous
and expensive court uniform, so that there would have been no possibility of my making a start
at all, as I had no private means, unless I borrowed money at interest.

But no one who knew of the extraordinary success of Rienzi at Dresden could help believing
in an immediate and remunerative rage for my operas on the German stage. My own relatives,
even the prudent Ottilie, were so convinced of it that they thought I might safely count on
at least doubling my salary by the receipts from my operas. At the very beginning the prospects
did indeed seem bright; the score of my Fliegender Hollander was ordered by the Royal Theatre
at Cassel and by the Riga theatre, which I had known so well in the old days, because they
were anxious to perform something of mine at an early date, and had heard that this opera was
on a smaller scale, and made smaller demands on the stage management, than Rienzi. In May,
1843 I heard good reports of the success of the performances from both those places. But this
was all for the time being, and a whole year went by without the smallest inquiry for any of
my scores. An attempt was made to secure me some benefit by the publication of the pianoforte
score of the Fliegender Hollander, as I wanted to reserve Rienzi, after the successes it had
gained, as useful capital for a more favourable opportunity; but the plan was spoilt by the
opposition of Messrs. Hartel of Leipzig, who, although ready enough to publish my opera, would
only do so on the condition that I abstained from asking any payment for it.

So I had, for the present, to content myself with the moral satisfaction of my successes, of
which my unmistakable popularity with the Dresden public, and the respect and attention paid
to me, formed part. But even in this respect my Utopian dreams were destined to be disturbed.
I think that my appearance at Dresden marked the beginning of a new era in journalism and criticism,
which found food for its hitherto but slightly developed vitality in its vexation at my success.
The two gentlemen I have already mentioned, C. Bank and J. Schladebach, had, as I now know,
first taken up their regular abode in Dresden at that time; I know that when difficulties were
raised about the permanence of Bank's appointment, they were waived, owing to the testimonials
and recommendation of my present colleague Reissiger. The success of my Rienzi had been the
source of great annoyance to these gentlemen, who were now established as musical critics to
the Dresden press, because I made no effort to win their favour; they were not ill-pleased,
therefore, to find an opportunity of pouring out the vitriol of their hatred over the universally
popular young musician who had won the sympathy of the kindly public, partly on account of
the poverty and ill-luck which had hitherto been his lot. The need for any kind of human consideration
had suddenly vanished with my 'unheard-of' appointment to the royal conductorship. Now 'all
was well with me,' 'too well,' in fact; and envy found its congenial food; this provided a
perfectly clear and comprehensible point of attack; and soon there spread through the German
press, in the columns given to Dresden news, an estimate of me which has never fundamentally
changed, except in one point, to this day. This single modification, which was purely temporary
and confined to papers of one political colour, occurred on my first settlement as a political
refugee in Switzerland, but lasted only until, through Liszt's exertions, my operas began to
be produced all over Germany, in spite of my exile. The orders from two theatres, immediately
after the Dresden performance, for one of my scores, were merely due to the fact that up to
that time the activity of my journalistic critics was still limited. I put down the cessation
of all inquiries, certainly not without due justification, mainly to the effect of the false
and calumnious reports in the papers.

My old friend Laube tried, indeed, to undertake my defence in the press. On New Year's Day,
1843 he resumed the editorship of the Zeitung fur die Elegante Welt, and asked me to provide
him with a biographical notice of myself for the first number. It evidently gave him great
pleasure to present me thus in triumph to the literary world, and in order to give the subject
more prominence he added a supplement to that number in the shape of a lithograph reproduction
of my portrait by Kietz. But after a time even he became anxious and confused in his judgment
of my works, when he saw the systematic and increasingly virulent detraction, depreciation,
and scorn to which they were subjected. He confessed to me later that he had never imagined
such a desperate position as mine against the united forces of journalism could possibly exist,
and when he heard my view of the question, he smiled and gave me his blessing, as though I
were a lost soul.

Moreover, a change was observable in the attitude of those immediately connected with me in
my work, and this provided very acceptable material for the journalistic campaign. I had been
led, though by no ambitious impulse, to ask to be allowed to conduct the performances of my
own works. I found that at every performance of Rienzi Reissiger became more negligent in his
conducting, and that the whole production was slipping back into the old familiar, expressionless,
and humdrum performance; and as my appointment was already mooted, I had asked permission to
conduct the sixth performance of my work in person. I conducted without having held a single
rehearsal, and without any previous experience, at the head of the Dresden orchestra. The performance
went splendidly; singers and orchestra were inspired with new life, and everybody was obliged
to admit that this was the finest performance of Rienzi that had yet been given. The rehearsing
and con-ducting of the Fliegender Hollander were willingly handed over to me, because Reissiger
was overwhelmed with work, in consequence of the death of the musical director, Rastrelli.
In addition to this I was asked to conduct Weber's Euryanthe, by way of providing a direct
proof of my capacity to interpret scores other than my own. Apparently everybody was pleased,
and it was the tone of this performance that made Weber's widow so anxious that I should accept
the Dresden conductorship; she declared that for the first time since her husband's death she
had heard his work correctly interpreted, both in expression and time.

Thereupon, Reissiger, who would have preferred to have a musical director under him, but had
received instead a colleague on an equal footing, felt himself aggrieved by my appointment.
Though his own indolence would have inclined him to the side of peace and a good understanding
with me, his ambitious wife took care to stir up his fear of me. This never led to an openly
hostile attitude on his part, but I noticed certain indiscretions in the press from that time
onwards, which showed me that the friendliness of my colleague, who never talked to me without
first embracing me, was not of the most honourable type.

I also received a quite unexpected proof that I had attracted the bitter envy of another man
whose sentiments I had no reason to suspect. This was Karl Lipinsky, a celebrated violinist
in his day, who had for many years led the Dresden orchestra. He was a man of ardent temperament
and original talent, but of incredible vanity, which his emotional, suspicious Polish temperament
rendered dangerous. I always found him annoying, because however inspiring and instructive
his playing was as to the technical execution of the violinists, he was certainly ill-fitted
to be the leader of a first-class orchestra. This extraordinary person tried to justify Director
Luttichau's praise of his playing, which could always be heard above the rest of the orchestra;
he came in a little before the other violins; he was a leader in a double sense, as he was
always a little ahead. He acted in much the same way with regard to expression, marking his
slight variations in the piano passages with fanatical precision. It was useless to talk to
him about it, as nothing but the most skilful flattery had any effect on him. So I had to endure
it as best I could, and to think out ways and means of diminishing its ill effects on the orchestral
performances as a whole by having recourse to the most polite circumlocutions. Even so he could
not endure the higher estimation in which the performances of the orchestra under my conductorship
were held, because he thought that the playing of an orchestra in which he was the leader must
invariably be excellent, whoever stood at the conductor's desk. Now it happened, as is always
the case when a new man with fresh ideas is installed in office, that the members of the orchestra
came to me with the most varied suggestions for improvements which had hitherto been neglected;
and Lipinsky, who was already annoyed about this, turned a certain case of this kind to a peculiarly
treacherous use. One of the oldest contrabassists had died. Lipinsky urged me to arrange that
the post should not be filled in the usual way by promotion from the ranks of our own orchestra,
but should be given, on his recommendation, to a distinguished and skilful contrabassist from
Darmstadt named Muller. When the musician whose rights of seniority were thus threatened, appealed
to me, I kept my promise to Lipinsky, explained my views about the abuses of promotion by seniority,
and declared that, in accordance with my sworn oath to the King, I held it my paramount duty
to consider the maintenance of the artistic interests of the institution before everything
else. I then found to my great astonishment, though it was foolish of me to be surprised, that
the whole of the orchestra turned upon me as one man, and when the occasion arose for a discussion
between Lipinsky and myself as to his own numerous grievances, he actually accused me of having
threatened, by my remarks in the contrabassist case, to undermine the well-established rights
of the members of the orchestra, whose welfare it was my duty to protect. Luttichau, who was
on the point of absenting himself from Dresden for some time, was extremely uneasy, as Reissiger
was away on his holiday, at leaving musical affairs in such a dangerous state of unrest. The
deceit and impudence of which I had been the victim was a revelation to me, and I gathered
from this experience the calm sense necessary to set the harassed director at ease by the most
conclusive assurances that I understood the people with whom I had to deal, and would act accordingly.
I faithfully kept my word, and never again came into collision either with Lipinsky or any
other member of the orchestra. On the contrary, all the musicians were soon so firmly attached
to me that I could always pride myself on their devotion.

From that day forward, however, one thing at least was certain, namely, that I should not die
as conductor at Dresden. My post and my work at Dresden thenceforward became a burden, of which
the occasionally excellent results of my efforts made me all the more sensible.

My position at Dresden, however, brought me one friend whose intimate relations with me long
survived our artistic collaboration in Dresden. A musical director was assigned to each conductor;
he had to be a musician of repute, a hard worker, adaptable, and, above all, a Catholic, for
the two conductors were Protestants, a cause of much annoyance to the clergy of the Catholic
cathedral, numerous positions in which had to be filled from the orchestra. August Rockel,
a nephew of Hummel, who sent in his application for this position from Weimar, furnished evidence
of his suitability under all these heads. He belonged to an old Bavarian family; his father
was a singer, and had sung the part of Florestan at the time of the first production of Beethoven's
Fidelio, and had himself remained on terms on close intimacy with the Master, many details
about whose life have been preserved through his care. His subsequent position as a teacher
of singing led him to take up theatrical management, and he introduced German opera to the
Parisians with so much success, that the credit for the popularity of Fidelio and Der Freischutz
with French audiences, to whom these works were quite unknown, must be awarded to his admirable
enterprise, which was also responsible for Schroder-Devrient's debut in Paris. August Rockel,
his son, who was still a young man, by helping his father in these and similar undertakings,
had gained practical experience as a musician. As his father's business had for some time even
extended to England, August had won practical knowledge of all sorts by contact with many men
and things, and in addition had learned French and English. But music had remained his chosen
vocation, and his great natural talent justified the highest hopes of success. He was an excellent
pianist, read scores with the utmost ease, possessed an exceptionally fine ear, and had indeed
every qualification for a practical musician. As a composer he was actuated, not so much by
a strong impulse to create, as the desire to show what he was capable of; the success at which
he aimed was to gain the reputation of a clever operatic composer rather than recognition as
a distinguished musician, and he hoped to obtain his end by the production of popular works.
Actuated by this modest ambition he had completed an opera, Farinelli, for which he had also
written the libretto, with no other aspiration than that of attaining the same reputation as
his brother-in-law Lortzing.

He brought this score to me, and begged me--it was his first visit before he had heard one
of my operas in Dresden--to play him something from Rienzi and the Fliegender Hollander. His
frank, agreeable personality induced me to try and meet his wishes as far as I could; and I
am convinced that I soon made such a great and unexpectedly powerful impression on him that
from that moment he determined not to bother me further with the score of his opera. It was
not until we had become more intimate and had discovered mutual personal interests, that the
desire of turning his work to account induced him to ask me to show my practical friendship
by turning my attention to his score. I made various suggestions as to how it might be improved,
but he was soon so hopelessly disgusted with his own work that he put it absolutely aside,
and never again felt seriously moved to undertake a similar task. On making a closer acquaintance
with my completed operas and plans for new works, he declared to me that he felt it his vocation
to play the part of spectator, to be my faithful helper and the interpreter of my new ideas,
and, as far as in him lay, to remove entirely, and at all events to relieve me as far as possible
from, all the unpleasantnesses of my official position and of my dealings with the outside
world. He wished, he said, to avoid placing himself in the ridiculous position of composing
operas of his own while living on terms of close friendship with me.

Nevertheless, I tried to urge him to turn his own talent to account, and to this end called
his attention to several plots which I wished him to work out. Among these was the idea contained
in a small French drama entitled Cromwell's Daughter, which was subsequently used as the subject
for a sentimental pastoral romance, and for the elaboration of which I presented him with an
exhaustive plan.

But in the end all my efforts remained fruitless, and it became evident that his productive
talent was feeble. This perhaps arose partly from his extremely needy and trying domestic circumstances,
which were such that the poor fellow wore himself out to support his wife and numerous growing
children. Indeed, he claimed my help and sympathy in quite another fashion than by arousing
my interest in his artistic development. He was unusually clear-headed, and possessed a rare
capacity for teaching and educating himself in every branch of knowledge and experience; he
was, moreover, so genuinely true and good-hearted that he soon became my intimate friend and
comrade. He was, and continued to be, the only person who really appreciated the singular nature
of my position towards the surrounding world, and with whom I could fully and sincerely discuss
the cares and sorrows arising therefrom. What dreadful trials and experiences, what painful
anxieties our common fate was to bring upon us, will soon be seen.

The earlier period of my establishment in Dresden brought me also another devoted and lifelong
friend, though his qualities were such that he exerted a less decisive influence upon my career.
This was a young physician, named Anton Pusinelli, who lived near me. He seized the occasion
of a serenade sung in honour of my thirtieth birthday by the Dresden Glee Club to express to
me personally his hearty and sincere attachment. We soon entered upon a quiet friendship from
which we derived a mutual benefit. He became my attentive family doctor, and during my residence
in Dresden, marked as it was by accumulating difficulties, he had abundant opportunities of
helping me. His financial position was very good, and his ready self-sacrifice enabled him
to give me substantial succour and bound me to him by many heartfelt obligations.

A further development of my association with Dresden buddy was provided by the kindly advances
of Chamberlain von Konneritz's family. His wife, Marie von Konneritz (nee Fink), was a friend
of Countess Ida Hahn-Hahn, and expressed her appreciation of my success as a composer with
great warmth, I might almost say, with enthusiasm. I was often invited to their house, and
seemed likely, through this family, to be brought into touch with the higher aristocracy of
Dresden. I merely succeeded in touching the fringe, however, as we really had nothing in common.
True, I here made the acquaintance of Countess Rossi, the famous Sontag, by whom, to my genuine
astonishment, I was most heartily greeted, and I thereby obtained the right of afterwards approaching
her in Berlin with a certain degree of familiarity. The curious way in which I was disillusioned
about this lady on that occasion will be related in due course. I would only mention here that,
through my earlier experiences of the world, I had become fairly impervious to deception, and
my desire for closer acquaintance with these circles speedily gave way to a complete hopelessness
and an entire lack of ease in their sphere of life.

Although the Konneritz couple remained friendly during the whole of my prolonged sojourn in
Dresden, yet the connection had not the least influence either upon my development or my position.
Only once, on the occasion of a quarrel between Luttichau and myself, the former observed that
Frau von Konneritz, by her unmeasured praises, had turned my head and made me forget my position
towards him. But in making this taunt he forgot that, if any woman in the higher ranks of Dresden
society had exerted a real and invigorating influence upon my inward pride, that woman was
his own wife, Ida von Luttichau (nee von Knobelsdorf).

The power which this cultured, gentle, and distinguished lady exercised over my life was of
a kind I now experienced for the first time, and might have become of great importance had
I been favoured with more frequent and intimate intercourse. But it was less her position as
wife of the general director than her constant ill-health and my own peculiar unwillingness
to appear obtrusive, that hindered our meeting, except at rare intervals. My recollections
of her merge somewhat, in my memory, with those of my own sister Rosalie. I remember the tender
ambition which inspired me to win the encouraging sympathy of this sensitive woman, who was
painfully wasting away amid the coarsest surroundings. My earliest hope for the fulfilment
of this ambition arose from her appreciation of my Fliegender Hollander, in spite of the fact
that, following close upon Rienzi, it had so puzzled the Dresden public. In this way she was
the first, so to speak, who swam against the tide and met me upon my new path. So deeply was
I touched by this conquest that, when I afterwards published the opera, I dedicated it to her.
In the account of my later years in Dresden I shall have more to record of the warm sympathy
for my new development and dearest artistic aims for which I was indebted to her. But of real
intercourse we had none, and the character of my Dresden life was not affected by this acquaintance,
otherwise so important in itself.

On the other hand, my theatrical acquaintances thrust themselves with irresistible importunancy
into the wide foreground of my life, and in fact, after my brilliant successes, I was still
restricted to the same limited and familiar sphere in which I had prepared myself for these
triumphs. Indeed, the only one who joined my old friends Heine and Gaffer Fischer was Tichatschek,
with his strange domestic circle. Any one who lived in Dresden at that time and chanced to
know the court lithographer, Furstenau, will be astonished to hear that, without really being
aware of it myself, I entered into a familiarity that was to prove a lasting one with this
man who was an intimate friend of Tichatschek's. The importance of this singular connection
may be judged from the fact that my complete withdrawal from him coincided exactly with the
collapse of my civic position in Dresden.

My good-humoured acceptance of election to the musical committee of the Dresden Glee Club also
brought me further chance acquaintances. This club consisted of a limited number of young merchants
and officials, who had more taste for any kind of convivial entertainment than for music. But
it was seduously kept together by a remarkable and ambitious man, Professor Lowe, who nursed
it with special objects in view, for the attainment of which he felt the need of an authority
such as I possessed at that time in Dresden.

Among other aims he was particularly and chiefly concerned in arranging for the transfer of
Weber's remains from London to Dresden. As this project was one which interested me also, I
lent him my support, though he was in reality merely following the voice of personal ambition.
He furthermore desired, as head of the Glee Club--which, by the way, from the point of view
of music was quite worthless--to invite all the male choral unions of Saxony to a great gala
performance in Dresden. A committee was appointed for the execution of this plan, and as things
soon became pretty warm, Lowe turned it into a regular revolutionary tribunal, over which,
as the great day of triumph approached, he presided day and night without resting, and by his
furious zeal earned from me the nickname of 'Robespierre.'

