One writes "our present civilization" and of previous civilizations, but indeed no civilizations
have yet really come into existence. Tribes have aggregated into nations, nations have aggregated
into empires, and then, after a struggle, has come a great confusion of thought, a failure
to clarify a common purpose, and disintegration. Each successive birth has developed a more
abundant body of thought, a more copious literature than the last, each has profited by the
legacy of the previous failure, but none have yet developed enough. Mankind has been struggling
to win this step of a permanent civilized state, and has never yet attained any sort of permanency--unless
perhaps in China. And that sole imperfect permanency was based primarily upon a literature.
A literature is the triumphant instrument of the invincible culture of the Jews. Through the
whole volume of history the thoughtful reader cannot but exclaim, again and again, "But if
they had only understood one another, all this bloodshed, all this crash, disaster, and waste
of generations could have been avoided!" Our time has come, and we of the European races are
making our struggle in our turn. Slavery still fights a guerilla war in factory and farm, cruelty
and violence peep from every slum, barbaric habits, rude barbaric ways of thinking, grossness
and stupidity are still all about us. And yet in many ways we seem to have got nearer to the
hope of permanent beginnings than any of those previous essays in civilization. Collectively
we know a great deal more, and more of us are in touch with the general body of knowledge than
was ever the case at any earlier stage. Assuredly we know enough to hope that we have passed
the last of the Dark Ages. But though we hope, we deal with no certainties, and it is upon
the broadening and increase of the flow of ideas that our hope depends.

At present this stream of thought and common understanding is not nearly so wide and deep as
it might conceivably become, as it must become if indeed this present civilization is to be
more than another false start. Our society [Footnote: Anticipations, Chapter III. Developing
Social Elements.] has ceased to be homogeneous, and it has become a heterogeneous confusion
without any secure common grounds of action, under the stress of its own material achievements.
For the lack of a sufficient literature we specialize into inco-ordinated classes. A number
of new social types are developing, ignorant of each other, ignorant almost of themselves,
full of mutual suspicions and mutual misunderstandings, narrow, limited, and dangerously incapable
of intelligent collective action in the face of crises. The medical man sees nothing beyond
his profession; he misunderstands the artist, the divine, and the engineer. The engineer hates
and despises the politician, the lawyer misses the aims of the medical man, the artist lives
angrily in a stuffy little corner of pure technique; none of them read any general literature
at all except perhaps a newspaper. Each thinks parochially in his own limits, and, except for
his specialty, is an illiterate man. It is absolutely necessary to the progress of our civilization
that these isolations should be overcome, that the community should become aware of itself
collectively and should think as a whole. And the only thing that can overcome these isolations
and put the mass of intelligent men upon a common basis of understanding, is an abundant and
almost universally influential contemporary literature.

We have already discussed the possibility of developing the innervation of the state, the distribution
of books, the stimulation and direction of reading, and all the peripheral aspects of literature,
and we come now to the difficult and intricate problem of whether we can do anything, and what
it is we may do, to stimulate the central thought. Can we hope to improve the conditions of
literary production, to make our literature more varied, quintessential and abundant, to enforce
it with honour and help, to attract to its service every man and woman with gifts of value,
and to make the most of these gifts?

Quite a number of people will assert that those things that constitute literature come and
go beyond the control and will of man, they will speak of Shakespeare as being a sort of mystical
consequence, of Roger Bacon or Newton as men independent of circumstances, inevitably great.
And if they are by way of being comic writers--the word "humorist," as Schopenhauer long since
pointed out, is a stolen lion's skin for these gentry--they will become extremely facetious
about the proposed school for Bacons and Shakespeares. But a little reflection will convince
the reader that none of the great figures of the past appeared without certain conditions being
added to their inherent powers. In the first place, they had to be reasonably sure of a sympathetic
and intelligent atmosphere, however limited in extent--there was no Plato in the heroic age,
and no Newton during the Heptarchy--and in the second, the medium, language or what not, had
to be ready for their use. In the third place they needed personally a certain minimum of training
and preparation, and in the fourth they had to feel that for some reason--not necessarily a
worldly one--the thing was "worth while." Given a "developer" of these ingredients, and they
appeared. But without this developer they would not have appeared, and it is therefore reasonable
to suppose, first, that a great number of men of a quality as rare as were those who constitute
the unparalleled roll of English intellectual greatness, lived and died undeveloped before
ever the developer was compounded at all, and that even in the last few hundred years the necessary
combination has fallen upon so small an area of our racial life as to have missed far more
than it has hit. The second of these papers is, indeed, an attempt to present quite convincingly
what the comic man will probably regard as his effectual objection, that inherent tendency
cannot be produced at will. But that the developer may conceivably be made in much greater
quantities and spread much wider than it is at present is an altogether different thing. There
are, one submits, enormous reserves of intellectual force unworked and scarcely touched, even
to-day.

We have already discussed the means and possibilities of a net of education that should sweep
through the whole social body, and of the creation of an atmosphere more alert and active than
our present one. We have now to consider how the greatest proportion of those born with exceptional
literary powers may be picked out and induced to exercise those powers to the utmost. Let us
admit at once that this is a research of extraordinary subtlety and complexity, that there
are ten thousand ways of going wrong, and perhaps mischievously wrong. That one may submit,
is not a sufficient reason for abandonment and despair. To take an analogous case, it may be
a complex and laborious thing to escape out of a bear-pit into which one has fallen, but few
people will consider that a reason for inaction. Even if they had small hope of doing anything
effectual they might find speculation and experiments in escape, a congenial way of passing
the time. It is the sort of project one should only abandon at the final and conclusive proof
of its impossibility. Exactly the same principle applies to human destinies and the saving
of other lives than our own. As a matter of fact, the enterprise is not at all a hopeless one
if it is undertaken honestly, warily, and boldly.

Let us consider the lines upon which men must go to ensure the greatest possible growth of
original thought in the state, original thought of which what scientific men call Research
is only one phase.

Before we can consider how we may endow him and equip him and help him, we have to consider
how we may find the original thinker, and we have, if we can, to define him and to discover
whatever we can of his methods and habits, his natural history as it were. We are attempting
generalization about a class of remarkably peculiar and difficult persons. They are persons
either of great intellectual power or simply of great imaginative power, whose bias and quality
it is to apply these exceptional powers not directly and simply to their personal advancement
and enrichment, but primarily through philosophical, scientific, or artistic channels, to the
increase of knowledge or of wisdom or of both. And here is the peculiar point in this problem,
they are men who put, or who wish to put the best of themselves and most of themselves into
occupations and interests that do not lead to practical results, that often for the individual
in open competition and the market fail more or less completely to "pay." Their activities,
of course, pay tremendously at last for the race, but that is not their personal point of application.
They take their lives and their splendid powers, they waste themselves in remote and inaccessible
regions and bring back precious things that immediately any sharp commercial-minded man will
turn into current coin for himself and the use of the world.

There are certain things follow naturally from this remote concentration, and we must persistently
keep them in mind. These men of exceptional mental quality, if they are really to do what they
are specially fitted to do, with all their power, will be unable to give their personal affairs,
their personal advancement, sustained attention. In a democratic community whose principle
is "hustle," in a leisurely monarchy where only opulence, a powerful top-note, and conspicuous
social gifts succeed, they will have either to neglect or taint their special talent in order
to survive. It does not follow that because a man's special qualities and inclinations are
towards, let us say, illuminating inquiries into the constitution of matter, or profound and
beautiful or simply beautiful renderings of his individual vision of life, that he is indifferent
to or independent of honour, of all the freedoms to do and to rest from doing that come with
wealth, or of the many lures and pleasures of life. Posthumous Fame is losing its attractiveness
in an age which has discovered excellent reasons for doubting whether after all aere perennius
was not rather too strong a figure. However powerful the impulse to think, to state and create,
there comes a point--often a point a long way from starvation-- at which a genius will stop
working. Your man of scientific, literary, or artistic genius will not work below his conception
of the endurable minimum, the minimum of hope and honour and attention as well as of material
things, any more than a coal-heaver will--and we live in a period when the Standard of Life
tends to rise. To secure these things which most men make the entire objective of their lives
is, or should be, an irrelevancy to the man of exceptional gifts. This means an enormous handicap
for him. Unless, therefore, we endow him and make life easy for him so long as he does his
proper work, he will have either to pervert his powers more or less completely to these irrelevant
ends, or if his powers do not admit of such perversion, he will have no use for them whatever.
He will take some subordinate place in the world as a rather less than average man and, it
may be, find the leisure to give just an amateurish ineffectual expression of the thing he
might have been.

Now this is the case with a great deal of scientific and artistic work, and with nearly all
literature at the present time, throughout the English-speaking community. There are a few
sciences slightly endowed, there are a few arts patronized with some intelligence and generosity,
and for the rest there is nothing for it, for the man who wants to do these most necessary
and vital things, but to hammer some at least of his precious gold into the semblance of a
brass trumpet and to devote a certain proportion of his time and energy to blowing that trumpet
and with that air of conscious modesty the public is pleased to consider genuine, proclaiming
the value of his wares. Some men seem able to do this sort of thing without any deterioration
in quality and some with only a partial deterioration, but the way of self-advertisement is
on a slippery slope, and it has brought many a man of indisputable gifts to absolute vulgarity
and ineffectiveness of thought and work. At the best it is a shameful business, this noise
and display, for all that Scott and Dickens were past masters in the art. And some men cannot
do it at all. Moreover, what the good man may do with an effort, the energetic quack, whose
only gift is simulation, can do infinitely better. It is only in the unprofitable branches
of intellectual work that the best now holds the best positions unchallenged. In the really
popular branches of artistic work every honourable success draws a parasitic swarm of imitators
like fish round bread in a pool. In the world of thought, far more than in the world of politics,
the polling method, the democratic method has broken down, the method that will only permit
an author to write--unless his subject is one that allows him to hold a Professorial Chair--on
condition that he can get a publisher to induce the public to buy a certain minimum number
of copies of each of his works, a method that will give him no rest, once he is in the full
swing of "production," until the end, no freedom to change his style or matter, lest he should
lose that paying following by the transition or the pause.

Now before we can discuss how else we can deal with those who constitute the current thought
of the community, we must consider how we are to distinguish what is worth sustaining from
what is not.

This is the public aspect of Criticism. It is the mineralogy of literature and art. At present
Criticism, as a public function, is discharged by private persons, usually anonymous and frequently
mysterious, and it is discharged with an astonishing ineffectiveness. Nowhere in the whole
English-speaking world is there anything one can compare to a voice and a judgment--much less
any discussion between reputable voices. There are periodicals professing criticism, but most
of them have the effect of an omnibus in which disconnected heterogeneous people are continually
coming and going, while the conductor asks first one of his fluctuating load and then another
haphazard for an opinion on this or that. The branch of literature that has first to be put
on a sound footing is critical literature. The organization into efficiency of the criticism
of contemporary work one is forced to believe an almost necessary preliminary to the hopeful
treatment of the rest of the current of thought.

