The armed forces have reached their present number of millions not only through the menace
of danger from neighboring states, but principally through the necessity of subduing every
effort at revolt on the part of the subjects.

Both causes, mutually dependent, contribute to the same result at once; troops are required
against internal forces and also to keep up a position with other states.  One is the result
of the other. The despotism of a government always increases with the strength of the army
and its external successes, and the aggressiveness of a government increases with its internal
despotism.

The rivalry of the European states in constantly increasing their forces has reduced them to
the necessity of having recourse to universal military service, since by that means the greatest
possible number of soldiers is obtained at the least possible expense.  Germany first hit on
this device.  And directly one state adopted it the others were obliged to do the same.  And
by this means all citizens are under arms to support the iniquities practiced upon them; all
citizens have become their own oppressors.

Universal military service was an inevitable logical necessity, to which we were bound to come.
But it is also the last expression of the inconsistency inherent in the social conception of
life, when violence is needed to maintain it.  This inconsistency has become obvious in universal
military service.  In fact, the whole significance of the social conception of life consists
in man's recognition of the barbarity of strife between individuals, and the transitoriness
of personal life itself, and the transference of the aim of life to groups of persons.  But
with universal military service it comes to pass that men, after making every sacrifice to
get rid of the cruelty of strife and the insecurity of existence, are called upon to face all
the perils they had meant to avoid.  And in addition to this the state, for whose sake individuals
renounced their personal advantages, is exposed again to the same risks of insecurity and lack
of permanence as the individual himself was in previous times.

Governments were to give men freedom from the cruelty of personal strife and security in the
permanence of the state order of existence.  But instead of doing that they expose the individuals
to the same necessity of strife, substituting strife with individuals of other states for strife
with neighbors.  And the danger of destruction for the individual, and the state too, they
leave just as it was.

Universal military service may be compared to the efforts of a man to prop up his falling house
who so surrounds it and fills it with props and buttresses and planks and scaffolding that
he manages to keep the house standing only by making it impossible to live in it.

In the same way universal military service destroys all the benefits of the social order of
life which it is employed to maintain.

The advantages of social organization are security of property and labor and associated action
for the improvement of existence-- universal military service destroys all this.

The taxes raised from the people for war preparations absorb the greater part of the produce
of labor which the army ought to defend.

The withdrawing of all men from the ordinary course of life destroys the possibility of labor
itself. The danger of war, ever ready to break out, renders all reforms of life social life
vain and fruitless.

In former days if a man were told that if he did not acknowledge the authority of the state,
he would be exposed to attack from enemies domestic and foreign, that he would have to resist
them alone, and would be liable to be killed, and that therefore it would be to his advantage
to put up with some hardships to secure himself from these calamities, he might well believe
it, seeing that the sacrifices he made to the state were only partial and gave him the hope
of a tranquil existence in a permanent state. But now, when the sacrifices have been increased
tenfold and the promised advantages are disappearing, it would be a natural reflection that
submission to authority is absolutely useless.

But the fatal significance of universal military service, as the manifestation of the contradiction
inherent in the social conception of life, is not only apparent in that.  The greatest manifestation
of this contradiction consists in the fact that every citizen in being made a soldier becomes
a prop of the government organization, and shares the responsibility of everything the government
does, even though he may not admit its legitimacy.

Governments assert that armies are needed above all for external defense, but that is not true.
They are needed principally against their subjects, and every man, under universal military
service, becomes an accomplice in all the acts of violence of the government against the citizens
without any choice of his own.

To convince oneself of this one need only remember what things are done in every state, in
the name of order and the public welfare, of which the execution always falls to the army.
All civil outbreaks for dynastic or other party reasons, all the executions that follow on
such disturbances, all repression of insurrections, and military intervention to break up meetings
and to suppress strikes, all forced extortion of taxes, all the iniquitous distributions of
land, all the restrictions on labor--are either carried out directly by the military or by
the police with the army at their back.  Anyone who serves his time in the army shares the
responsibility of all these things, about which he is, in some cases, dubious, while very often
they are directly opposed to his conscience.  People are unwilling to be turned out of the
land they have cultivated for generations, or they are unwilling to disperse when the government
authority orders them, or they are unwilling to pay the taxes required of them, or to recognize
laws as binding on them when they have had no hand in making them, or to be deprived of their
nationality--and I, in the fulfillment of my military duty, must go and shoot them for it.
How can I help asking myself when I take part in such punishments, whether they are just, and
whether I ought to assist in carrying them out?

Universal service is the extreme limit of violence necessary for the support of the whole state
organization, and it is the extreme limit to which submission on the part of the subjects can
go.  It is the keystone of the whole edifice, and its fall will bring it all down.

The time has come when the ever-growing abuse of power by governments and their struggles with
one another has led to their demanding such material and even moral sacrifices from their subjects
that everyone is forced to reflect and ask himself, "Can I make these sacrifices?  And for
the sake of what am I making them?  I am expected for the sake of the state to make these sacrifices,
to renounce everything that can be precious to man-- peace, family, security, and human dignity."
What is this state, for whose sake such terrible sacrifices have to be made?  And why is it
so indispensably necessary?  "The state," they tell us, "is indispensably needed, in the first
place, because without it we should not be protected against the attacks of evil-disposed persons;
and secondly, except for the state we should be savages and should have neither religion, culture,
education, nor commerce, nor means of communication, nor other social institutions; and thirdly,
without the state to defend us we should be liable to be conquered and enslaved by neighboring
peoples."

"Except for the state," they say, "we should be exposed to the attacks of evil-disposed persons
in our own country."

