Since these enterprises have been undertaken, an immense and fruitless expenditure has been
incurred by sending out machinery, which could be of no earthly use--by despising the native
processes, and substituting others that have been found wholly inapplicable--and by introducing
British labourers, who when abroad reverse all the good qualities for which they are valuable
at home. A reform in this system we believe to have been generally adopted, and we are sure
that a reduction of expense, a management purely European, and native labour, with only such
modifications in working, smelting, or amalgamating, as experience will prove to be advantageous,
will, in a moderate time, return the capital already expended, with a commensurate advantage.
But these things can only take place provided the public tranquillity be maintained, and the
government keep their engagements with foreigners inviolate. The insecurity arising from the
domestic feuds now disturbing this fine country, must, if it continues, finally annihilate
its best resources.--Foreign Quarterly Review.

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

COALS.

One of the pamphlets of the age of the Commonwealth is said, in the title-page, to be

          Printed in the year
  That sea-coal was exceeding dear.

The remembrance of this inconvenience, which the Londoners had suffered during the stoppage
of their supply from Newcastle, made "the committees of both kingdoms conclude and agree among
themselves, that some of the most notorious delinquents and malignants, late coal-owners in
the town of Newcastle, be wholly excluded from intermeddling with any shares or parts of colleries;"
"but as the parliament might find a difficulty in driving on the trade, they did not conceive
it for their service to put out all the said malignants at once, but were rather constrained,
for the present, to make use of those delinquents in working their own collieries as tenants
and servants." The more stubborn and wealthy, therefore, were selected for example; and the
others had this favour shown them.

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY-POETS OF ENGLAND.

The following is a Frenchman's expression of homage to our modern female poets, in which we
excel all the world:--

It is remarkable, that in the latter years of the eighteenth century, and also during the whole
course of our revolution, there appeared in England a whole school, as it were, of female authors,
whose pure and graceful productions are disfigured by no exaggerations, nor are they of that
sombre character which distinguishes the modern literature of their country. Of the lady-authors
of England, the most celebrated is Lady Wortley Montagu, the contemporary of Pope, who has
left poems, but more especially letters, highly remarkable for their talent and philosophy.
It is impossible to give here the names of the authoresses who appeared all on a sudden about
half a century after Lady Wortley Montagu. One of the earliest of them was a lady of the same
name, Mrs. E. Montagu, the author of the Essays on Shakspeare, and Mrs. Anna Laetitia Barbauld,
who wrote numerous poems and admirable hymns for children. There is great beauty in the Epistle
of Mrs. Barbauld to Wilberforce, on the subject of the Abolition of the Slave Trade (1781.)
Mrs. Hannah More has also written several works of religious fiction, and above all, some charming
poems; Florio (1786,) and the Blue Stocking, or Conversation. The Blue Stocking is a burlesque
name given to a lady's coterie, in which several females attempted to start a sort of bureau
d'esprit under the direction of Mesdames Robinson and Piozzi, a coterie innocent enough, but
which excited the wrath of Mr. Gifford, the Editor of the Quarterly Review, who fulminated
against it several satires in excessively bad taste, and written in a tone of disgusting pedantry.
The verses of Mr. Gifford are infinitely more ridiculous than those he pretends to correct.
Amongst the English ladies who have written romance, Miss Edgeworth, Mrs. Inchbald, and Lady
Morgan, are worthy of especial note. Several ladies, without having written works of great
importance, have still produced poetical pieces of graceful beauty; in this number it is but
justice to distinguish Mrs. Opie. And lastly, in order to finish this hasty catalogue, we may
remark that there have appeared in England, in our days, several ladies of a high order of
literary, poetical, and at the same time, philosophical talent. Lady Morgan herself has contrived
to mix up history and romance in her writings, with great ability; but among the ladies, who
inscribed their fame on monuments more durable than romantic stories, we must select for honourable
mention the names of Joanna Baillie, Aikin, Benger, and Helen Maria Williams. Miss Baillie,
sister of the celebrated Dr. Baillie, the physician, is a woman of the highest talent. It is
not your pretty nothings, your elegant trifles, which occupy her genius; on the contrary, she
has attempted in a series of dramatic pieces, to paint the most energetic passion of the human
heart; and her pieces, written in the most elevated and Shakspearian tone, will always be regarded
as the work of a superior mind. John Kemble, in the part of Montfort, reached the sublime of
agony. In the writings of Miss Baillie there is a combination of the solemn and the poetical,
which is rarely observed in women. Miss Aikin has written some charming poems, far more beautiful
than any I have met with in the writings of Miss Landon and Miss Mitford. The Mouse's Petition,
by Miss Aikin, is a chef-d'oeuvre. Miss Benger has published some historical works of great
interest, which place her in the same line with Miss Aikin. Lastly, there is Helen Maria Williams,
whose muse, half English, half French, has published poems, sonnets, and other pieces of verse,
besides several political and historical works. This superior woman, at the same time that
she gave birth, under the influence of sensibility and fancy, to works of inspiration, portrayed
the details of the events of the French revolution, in the centre of which she threw herself,
in 1792, from pure enthusiasm for liberty.--Foreign Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN LAW.

"No commentator," says Judge Hall, in his Letters from the West, "has taken any notice of Linch's
Law, which was once the lex loci of the frontiers. Its operation was as follows:--When a horse
thief, a counterfeiter, or any other desperate vagabond, infested a neighbourhood, evading
justice by cunning, or by a strong arm, or by the number of his confederates, the citizens
formed themselves into a "regulating company," a kind of holy brotherhood, whose duty was to
purge the community of its unruly members. Mounted, armed, and commanded by a leader, they
proceeded to arrest such notorious offenders as were deemed fit subjects of exemplary justice;
their operations were generally carried on in the night. Squire Birch, who was personated by
one of the party, established his tribunal under a tree in the woods, and the culprit was brought
before him, tried, and generally convicted; he was then tied to a tree, lashed without mercy,
and ordered to leave the country within a given time, under pain of a second visitation. It
seldom happened that more than one or two were thus punished; their confederates took the hint
and fled, or were admonished to quit the neighbourhood."

       *       *       *       *       *

MONUMENTAL ALTERATION.

The following odd story is related respecting a monument in a chapel, adjoining Stene, a fine
family seat in the north:--The sculptor, in that vile taste which seems to have originated
in an unhappy design of making every thing connected with the grave revolting to our feelings,
had ornamented this monument with "a very ghastly, grinning alabaster skull;" and the bishop
one day expressed a wish to his domestic chaplain, Dr. Grey, that it had not been placed there.
Grey, upon this, sent to Banbury for the sculptor, and consulted with him whether it was not
possible to convert it into a soothing, instead of a painful object. After some consideration,
the artist declared that the only thing into which he could possibly convert it was--a bunch
of grapes! and accordingly, at this day, a bunch of grapes may be seen upon the monument; for
the chapel, which for a time had been abandoned to the rooks and daws who built their nests
among the monuments, has been repaired, and is now united to the rectory of Hinton.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is easier to induce people to follow than to set an example--however good it may be both
for themselves and others, most men have a silly squeamishness about proposing an adjournment
from the dinner table. The host, fearing that his guest may take it for a token that he loves
his wine better than his friends, is obliged to feign an unwillingness to leave the bottle,
and, as Sponge says--"In good truth, 'tis impossible, nay, I say it is impudent, to contradict
any gentleman at his own table; the president is always the wisest man in the party."

MAT. PRIOR.

Therefore his friends, unless a special commission be given to them for that purpose, feel
unwilling to break the gay circle of conviviality, and are individually shy of asking for what
almost every one wishes.--Kitchiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though much has been done, the orthography of the Dutch language can hardly be considered as
positively fixed. A witty writer and one who has biographized the Dutch poets with some severity,
but much talent, says--

  Spell--"Wereld "--so sets up Siegenbeek, and then
  Comes Bilderdyk, and flings it down again.
  He will have "Wareld"--'Tis a pretty quarrel
  Shall I determine who shall wear the laurel:
  Not I!--I like them both--and so I'll say
  "Waereld"--and each shall have his own dear way.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MEXICAN NAVY

Is in a most deplorable state. The difficulty of reducing the Castle of San Juan de Ulloa led
to the collection of some gun-boats, a couple of sloops of war, and two or three armed schooners.
This number has since received the addition of a line of battle ship, two frigates, and some
other vessels of war. Some English and American officers were engaged, but we believe that
all the former have left the service, and that very few of the latter remain. Commodore Porter,
of vain-glorious memory, (who once wrote a book of Voyages,) was, and may be still, the marine
commandant, and distinguished himself by threatening to blockade Cuba, and by being obliged
to skulk at Key West, to avoid destruction by the gallant Laborde. The Mexicans require no
navy, and cannot maintain one; the sooner, therefore, they restrict it to a very few revenue
cutters the better. The nature of the country and the destructive climate of the coast, diminish
greatly the necessity for keeping up a military establishment for external defence. Foreign
invasion can do little; more is to be dreaded from internal dissensions.--Foreign Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

A prudent host, who is not in the humour to submit to an attack from "staunch topers," "who
love to keep it up" as bons vivants, whose favourite song is ever "Fly not yet," will engage
some sober friends to fight on his side, and at a certain hour to vote for "no more wine,"
and bravely demand "tea," and will select his company with as much care as a chemist composes
a neutral salt, judiciously providing quite as large a proportion of alkali (tea men) as he
has of acid (wine men.) To adjust the balance of power at the court of Bacchus, occasionally
requires as much address as sagacious politicians say is sometimes requisite to direct the
affairs of other courts.

To make the summons of the tea table serve as an effective ejectment to the dinner table, let
it be announced as a special invitation from the lady of the house. It may be, for example,
"Mrs. Souchong requests the pleasure of your company to the drawing-room." This is an irresistible
mandamus.

  "Though Bacchus may boast of his care-killing bowl,
    And Folly in thought drowning revels delight,
  Such worship soon loses its charms for the soul,
    When softer devotions our senses invite."

CAPTAIN MORRIS.

Dr. Kitchiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAKING TEA.

It has been long observed that the infusion of tea made in silver, or polished metal tea-pots,
is stronger than that which is produced in black, or other kinds of earthenware pots. This
is explained on the principle, that polished surfaces retain heat much better than dark, rough
surfaces, and that, consequently, the caloric being confined in the former case, must act more
powerfully than in the latter.

It is further certain, that the silver or metal pot, when filled a second time, produces worse
tea than the earthenware vessel; and that it is advisable to use the earthenware pot, unless
a silver or metal one can be procured sufficiently large to contain at once all that may be
required. These facts are readily explained by considering, that the action of heat retained
by the silver vessel so far exhausts the herb as to leave very little soluble substance for
a second infusion; whereas the reduced temperature of the water in the earthenware pot, by
extracting only a small proportion at first, leaves some soluble matter for the action of a
subsequent infusion.

The reason for pouring boiling water into the tea-pot before the infusion of the tea is made,
is, that the vessel being previously warm, may abstract less heat from the mixture, and thus
admit a more powerful action. Neither is it difficult to explain the fact why the infusion
of tea is stronger if only a small quantity of boiling water be first used, and more be added
some time afterwards; for if we consider that only the water immediately in contact with the
herb can act upon it, and that it cools very rapidly, especially in earthenware vessels, it
is clear that the effect will be greater where the heat is kept up by additions of boiling
water, than where the vessel is filled at once, and the fluid suffered gradually to cool.

When the infusion has once been completed, it is found that any further addition of the herb
only affords a very small increase in the strength, the water having cooled much below the
boiling point, and consequently, acting very slightly.

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUMAN EAR.

The ear consists of three principal divisions, viz. the external, intermediate, and internal
ear. The different parts of the first division, or external ear, are described by anatomists
under the name of the helix, antihelix, tragus, antitragus, the lobe, cavitas innominata, the
scapha, and the concha. In the middle of the external ear is the meatus, or passage, which
varies in length in different individuals. The external or outward ear is designed by nature
to stand prominent, and to bear its proportion in the symmetry of the head, but in Europe it
is greatly flattened by the pressure of the dress; it consists chiefly of elastic cartilage,
formed with different hollows, or sinuosities, all leading into each other, and finally terminating
in the concha, or immediate opening into the tube of the ear. This form is admirably adapted
for the reception of sound, for collecting and retaining it, so that it may not pass off, or
be sent too rapidly to the seat of the impression. There have been a few instances of men who
had the power of moving the external ear in a similar manner to that of animals; but these
instances are very rare, and rather deviations from the general structure; nor did it appear
in these instances that such individuals heard more acutely: a proof that such a structure
would be of no advantage to the human subject. With respect to the external ear in man, whether
it is completely removed either by accident or design, deafness ensues, although its partial
removal is not attended with this inconvenience: the external ear, therefore, or something
in its form to collect sound, is a necessary part of the organ.

The next division is the intermediate ear; it consists of the tympanum, mastoid cells, and
Eustachian tube. The tympanum contains four small delicate bones, viz. the malleus, the incus,
the stapes, and the os orbiculare, joined to the incus. The intermediate ear displays an irregular
cavity, having a membrane, called the membrana tympani, stretched across its extremity; and
this cavity has a communication with the external air, through the Eustachian tube, which leads
into the fauces, or throat. The membrane of the tympanum is intended to carry the vibrations
of the atmosphere, collected by the outward ear, to the chain of bones which form the peculiar
mechanism of the tympanum. Besides the effect of the hard and bony parts of the ear in increasing
the power of sound, the tension of the different membranes is also a requisite: thus various
muscles are so situated as to put the membrane on the stretch, that the sound, striking upon
it, may, from its tension, similar to that of the parchment of a drum-head, have full influence
upon the sense. In respect to its tension, the membrane of the tympanum may be also compared,
not unaptly, to the string of a violin, or musical instrument, even more properly than to a
drum; as the state of tension and relaxation in such chords produces a variety of sound in
the instrument, so, in the same manner, circumstances, which affect the tension and relaxation
of the tympanum, vary most perceptibly its powers of action, and the customary agency of the
organ. Its four bones act mechanically, in consequence of the power of the local muscles: they
strike like the key of an instrument, and produce a percussion on the nerves of the tympanum.
Not only may the membrane of the tympanum be partially destroyed, and hearing be preserved,
but the small bones of the tympanum have been in certain cases lost, or have come away, from
ulceration, and through a constitutional or other cause; but in such cases it appears that
the stapes was, in most instances, left, and thus the openings of the fenestra ovata and fenestra
rotunda were preserved, which prevented the escape of sound from the labyrinth and internal
parts. With respect to the Eustachian tube, its aperture into the throat seems indispensable
to hearing; and whenever closed, from malconfirmation or disease, deafness is the certain consequence.

