In the course of this investigation I have already referred to, and in a certain measure characterized,
the changes introduced into the Lombard system of government consequent on the kingdom being
absorbed into the great empire of Charlemagne. I have said that, owing to the similarity of
institutions between the Franks and the Lombards, the changes made consisted rather in differences
in the manner of enforcing the control of the central power than in any alteration in the institutional
life of the people, but that there were certain exceptions to this general rule, which, in
their mode of operation, though not in the intention of their author, materially affected,
indeed greatly accelerated, the growth of individual life among the cities. We must now consider
the nature of these exceptions.

Under the Lombard system we have seen the administrative unit of the state to be the civitas,
with its administrative head, the dux, at different times enjoying a greater or less degree
of independence from control of the central power. We have seen the dux lord as well as judge
in his own jurisdiction, and standing as the successor of the military leader chosen by the
people, instead of holding the position of king's servant; this place being more properly filled
by the gastald, who cared for the fiscal interests of the central power, whose appointee he
was. Such a form of government, it can be readily seen, left no room for any strong development
of the principle of centralization, and no scope for the exercise of any decided power or even
of general supervision by the central authority. The heads of the civitates were the king's
judices, it is true, and assembled to assist him in judgments at his general placita in the
March of each year; but they bear the character also of local lords of no mean importance,
and in some cases possessed of no inconsiderable amount of power. Such a degree of individual
influence--perhaps I should exaggerate if I called it individual independence--was, however,
little suited to the idea of a universal centralized empire, which was the forming principle
of the government of Charlemagne. While recognizing the necessity of retaining the fundamental
institution of a division of the state into civitates, and of governing it by means of the
heads of these divisions, he wished to eliminate from these officers all the characteristics
of local magnates, and to reduce them to the more easily controlled position of servants, and
dependents of the king. This object he accomplished most satisfactorily by changing the dukes
or local lords into counts or king's men, by appointing a Count of the Palace for Italy, and
by extending to that kingdom the perfectly organized system of central control by means of
the Missi Dominici, with the workings of which in the other parts of his great empire the student
of history is too well acquainted to need any description here.

The immediate changes in the life of the people consequent on the introduction of this system
were not considerable, if we except a great improvement in public order and a marked advance
in the equitable administration of justice; but it needs no great foresight to see that the
ultimate effects on the position held by the municipal units in the community could not fail
to be important and far-reaching. The new officer, the count, stripped of all the importance
that his predecessor, the duke, had enjoyed as lord of the country over which he ruled, was
placed in each city to govern, in the king's name, it and its territorium. As long as the empire
of Charlemagne retained its integrity, and as long as the reins of central government were
held by a strong hand and the control it exercised was felt to be positive and real, the change
in the character of the local governor was of little moment; but as soon as the power of the
central government weakened--during the inglorious reigns of the immediate successors of the
great emperor--its hold on the administration of the local units slackened immediately; and
in proportion as the vitality of the new central control diminishes, we see appearing the effects
which must always result when the strong hand of an active central power is removed from a
system of administration which had been based on the exercise of such a power. These effects
are the increased importance--I may now say the increased independence--of the local units;
of these local units themselves as distinguished from the heads who rule over them.

The change had made these units more organic parts of the state than they had ever been before:
we have seen them first made prominent by being the seats of the rulers of the civitas, and
now we are to see them gain a more significant advance by coming into relation with the head
of the state directly, instead of through the personal power of their lord. For the local ruler
has yielded his individual pre-eminence to the central government; and when this fails to maintain
its authority, in any community whose inhabitants are capable of fostering the seeds of independence
once sown, it is difficult if not impossible for a successor to repossess himself of the privileges
which have been forfeited. In any state where the seat of central authority is distant or its
power only exercised feebly and at intervals, the local units secure much greater independence
and importance, through the very necessity of performing many functions left unheeded by the
ruler of all; and if the people are self-reliant in character, they will in time develop a
sort of self-government which, although it would not at first think of questioning the theoretical
right and overlordship of the central power, will eventually brook but little interference
with its modes of procedure and with its exercise of functions, which the lapse of time has
transformed from enforced duties into jealously guarded privileges.

This is the keynote of the later history of the Italian cities. This it was, and not any real
lack of patriotism, which made them choose a German emperor instead of an Italian king. There
was no room at that time for the idea of Italian unity, as we now understand it: the nature
of the people alone would have rendered such a thing impossible, even if we leave out of account
the fact that Italy was the meeting-ground of the two great powers of the mediaeval world,
the Pope and the Emperor. Italy then must have had two masters, or have been the slave of one.
The same spirit of civic independence which caused the development of Ancient Greece by preventing
the universal rule of one power, caused the Italians, under different conditions, to pit one
master against another to attain the same end. Even Liutprand, the old historian of the tenth
century, recognized this. In the first book of his "Historia" he says: "The Italians wish always
to serve two masters, in order to restrain one by means of the terror with which the other
inspires him."[57] By means of holding in their hands the balance of power they hoped to rule
their rulers; and to attain this object was the only reason which ever prompted the cities
to unite with any degree of harmony. Local independence was what they aimed at, and their shrewdness
showed them the only possible means in that age of securing it.

These results could hardly have been attained if society had remained such that the prominence
of the local divisions was dependent on the prominence of the respective heads of these divisions;
but the character of their local rulers once changed, and their powers in a great measure absorbed
by the act of a strong central power, when that power fell to pieces it was much easier for
the local divisions, as such, to increase their independence, and to utilize the advance they
had made, by means of their more direct relation to the central power, to gain a position which
they would enjoy in spite of the efforts alike of that power and of their old rulers. Such
a position would not be reached except by means of great struggles and by passing through a
period of great disintegration and of fierce internal strife between opposing factions, such
as in the history of the Italian communes is represented by the dark period between the fall
of the last of the Carlovingians and the election of the first German emperor as king of Italy;
but once attained, the character of the people who accomplished it would ensure its permanence,
as long as they retained those principles of independence which had made them victorious in
the struggle. After this short discussion, in which we have traced the ultimate effects of
the action of Charlemagne in changing the dukes into counts, let us look at another feature
in the field of city government introduced by him, the new office of the scabinus or city judge.

According to the theory of judicial procedure among the Teutonic nations, judgment in criminal
cases was given in the open court or placitum, where, besides the regular judges, all or any
of the freemen within its jurisdiction were supposed to concur in the judgment and sentence.
How far this method of arriving at judicial decisions was carried out in practice depended
largely on custom and other local influences, and consequently varied greatly in different
countries and with different nations. I do not propose to enter into the discussion[58] of
the existence of these "judicators"[59] in Lombardy in the eighth century, but will only say
that it is certain that before the Frankish conquest there did not exist a class of men whose
business it was to assist the judge in disposing of cases. If through ignorance of the law
or for other reasons he was unable to come to a decision, "si vero talis causa fuit, quod ipse
... deliberare minime possit,"[60] he could call some of the freemen to assist him: "advocis
[advocet] alios ... qui sciunt judicare,"[61] etc., but this seems, in later times at any rate,
to have been a privilege to be used at discretion, and the persons summoned were not regularly
appointed officers of the court. The Lombard codes are silent with regard to these indicators;
but Savigny,[62] in his argument to prove their existence, claims that mention is made of them
in two decisions of Liutprand of the years 715 and 716, and brings as additional evidence a
placitum of 751[63] in which Lupo, duke of Spoleto, gives judgment "una cum judicibus nostris
... vel aliis pluribus astantibus," etc. It is of more importance for us, however, to determine
the reasons for the introduction into Italy by Charlemagne of the new office of the scabinus,
than to lose ourselves in a complicated discussion of the theoretical predecessors of these
officers.

The introduction of this new feature into city government seems to have been the result of
an attempt to correct certain abuses in the exercise of power by the duke or head of the courts
of the civitas. The duke had the right, as we know, to summon all the freemen in his jurisdiction
to his placita, and to fine them according to the law if they failed to answer his summons.
The fines collected in this manner formed a substantial part of the revenues of the judex imposing
them, and consequently arose the abuse, which seems to have been a great cause of complaint
in the eighth century, that the freemen were summoned to attend placita at frequent intervals
during the year, when there was no business of any importance to transact, and when the sole
object of the summons was to furnish an excuse for imposing the fine. An attempt to remedy
this injustice was made when the number of placita which any one judex could hold during the
year was limited by law to three,[64] and the dates for these definitely determined. But the
abuse does not seem to have been satisfactorily corrected till the time when Charlemagne formally
substituted for the body of the freemen, who in theory were supposed to attend the placita
and assist in the judgments, a limited number of men who, as regularly constituted judges,
either assisted the judices or made judgments of their own, as the case might be. These officers
were the scabini, whose position we are now investigating.

All of the best authorities agree that no authentic allusion to the office in Italy is to be
found prior to the establishment of Frankish rule. The word scavinus or scabinus sometimes
occurs, but in every case the document containing it has been proved spurious on other grounds.
For instance, Brunetti[65] publishes a donation of the bishop Speciosus of Florence, to the
monastery of the cathedral, purporting to belong to the year 724, in which a certain "Alfuso
scavino" is mentioned; but it has been proved that the monastery was only founded in the year
760, and though it may, at a later date, have received the donation, the significancy of the
use of the term vanishes. The first authenticated use of the name of the new judge seems to
be in a placitum of Charlemagne of the year 781.[66] In this the parties to a suit are mentioned
as having already appeared before the "Comitem et suos Escapinios." Eight years later, in a
Praeceptum of Charlemagne,[67] commission is given to the comes Tentmann "superque vicarios
et Scabinos, quos sub se habet, diligenter inquirat."

Now that we have indicated the origin and noted the first appearance of the new officer, let
us examine his position and his duties. I am much more willing to allow to the scabinus the
title of "city officer," than to the dux or even the count. We have seen the latter as one
of the important connecting links joining the city to the state, bringing the city into relationship
with the constitution of the kingdom and making it a part of it; but we have been unwilling
to call the count or dux the legal head of the city, as such, that is to allow him the title
of the first city officer. But with the scabinus the case is different. His mode of appointment,
and the character of the functions he performed, ally him with the city proper and with city
people. His duties and his interests were more confined to the city than those of any of the
other judges, and when he accompanies the count to the general placita of the king, he seems
to go in the capacity of a representative of the city, and more in the character of a city
magistrate than any officer we have yet considered. His duties were almost entirely of a judicial
character, and his powers seem to have been as broad in their extent as those of the other
judges. That he had the power of imposing capital punishment, and that the other officers of
the law could not change but only execute his orders, appears from the following passage:[68]
"postquam Scabini eum [latronem] adjudicaverint, non est licentia vel Vicarii ei vitam concedere."
Muratori[69] maintains that he also had the right of holding certain placita of his own, and
cites in proof two placita of Lucca of the years 847 and 856, where we find: "Dum nos in Dei
nomine Ardo, Adelperto et Gherimundo Scabini adsedentes in lucho Civitate Lucana," etc.; and
"dum resedisset Gisulfus Scabinus de Vico Laceses, per jussionem Bernardi Comiti ... ubi cum
ipso aderat Ausprand et Audibert Scavinis." In the first of these there is no mention whatever
of the count, and in the second "Gisulfus Scabinus" acts with his associate scabini "per jussionem
Comiti." But even if we allow to the scabini the right of holding placita, these must have
been of a lower grade than those of the counts or of the missi regii; for to the mallum of
the latter an appeal was allowed from the judgment of the scabini, as we see from the law of
Charlemagne,[70] which says that: "Si quis caussam judicatam repetere in mallo praesumserit
... a Scabinis, qui caussam ipsam prius judicaverint, accipiat." Generally speaking, however,
it seems probable that their jurisdiction included all cases arising within the city limits,
which could be dealt with in the regular placita of the counts, and which were not of sufficient
importance to be referred to the king in person, his representative the Count of the Palace,
or his delegates the missi regii.

When the count went up to the general yearly placitum of the king, as the representative of
the civitas, according to the laws of Charlemagne he was to be accompanied by a certain number
of the scabini; and these seem to have accompanied him not solely in the character of legal
advisers, but also in a certain measure as representatives of the cities in which lay their
jurisdiction: they are by no means what the exaggeration of Sismondi[71] calls "des magistrats
populaires ... qui representaient la bourgeoisie"; but they certainly stood for the interests
of the people, in a greater degree than any of the ruling powers we have as yet considered.
Their number is variously stated in the laws of different kings, and their actual number seems
seldom to have come up to the standard of legal requirement. Lewis the Pious requires twelve
to accompany each count when summoned by the emperor: "veniat unusquisque Comes et adducat
secum duodecim Scabinos";[72] but concedes that if so many could not be found in the city,
their number should be filled out from the best citizens of the town: "de melioribus hominibus
illius civitatis suppleat numerum duodenarium."[73] According to Charlemagne,[74] no one should
come with the count to a king's placitum unless he had a case to present, "qui causam suam
quaerit, exceptis scabinis septem, qui ad omnia Placita esse debent." And again: "Ut nullus
ad placitum banniatur ... exceptis scabineis septem, qui ad omnia Placita praeesse debent";[75]
and seven seems to have been the usual number expected, and their attendance was compulsory;
though sometimes only two appear, and in a few cases none at all.

Of all matters relating to this office, the one which is of most interest to us, and the one
which most clearly shows the difference which was designed to exist between it and that of
the other judges, was the manner in which the office was obtained. In this procedure we can
trace almost distinctly that the object of the central power which established it was to secure
greater justice and greater freedom to the subjects who came under its jurisdiction. The fact
was recognized by the new government that the power of the local heads was too great to suit
the principle of universal central control, which was the keynote of Charlemagne's system of
administration, and was exercised in too arbitrary a manner; and that some check was necessary
to curb the spirit and limit the independence of these local lords of the soil and the city
who had little consideration for their inferiors, and who might at any time become a source
of danger to their superiors. Such a check was found, in regard to the central authority, in
the missi regii, and in reference to the general public, in the scabini or city judges.

In the old Lombard constitution we have seen the gastald, chiefly, however, in the matter of
judicial decisions, exercise a controlling influence on the arbitrary action of the duke; but
as the power of the count varied from that of the duke, so that of the scabinus differs from
that of the gastald, only perhaps in a greater degree. At the time when the count assumes the
place of his predecessor the duke, the scabinus displaces the gastald, although he cannot be
said to have assumed exactly the same position as the latter, nor to have filled it in precisely
the same way. The scabinus did not have, of course, any direct limiting control over the actions
of the count; for any such power in the hands of a body of lesser officers would have been
alike contrary to the spirit of feudalism which characterized the age, and impossible to its
forms; but being the principal judicial functionaries of the district, into their hands fell
most of the cases which formerly went to the placita of the count; and while the wish of the
great emperor, that even the meanest subject of the realm should receive impartial justice
at their hands, might have failed in its effect, its fulfilment was made more sure by the method
prescribed for the election of the officers whose duty it was to execute it.[76]

In describing the method by which the scabini gained their office, I am in some doubt as to
the proper terms to be employed. I have just made use of the word "election," but cannot let
it stand without some qualification. It was not an election in the strict sense of the word
as we now understand it, but it was as near an approach to a popular choice as was possible
in the age in which it existed. The citizens of a municipality did not nominate and elect by
their votes a popular magistrate, as some writers would have us believe; for such a proceeding
would have been an anomaly in the eighth century under the rule of a Frankish emperor. But
the people had a voice, and from the frequent mention of their intervention it would seem an
important voice, in the selection of those who were to be their judges, and who were to assist
in representing them in the royal assembly. The original appointments were made by some higher
power, in most cases the missi regii, the direct representatives of the king; but these were
made not arbitrarily, but always "cum totius populi consensu." This was the important point;
it was so far a popular office that the free consent of the people was always necessary to
make valid the appointment of any incumbent. According to the ideas and customs of the eighth
century, such a method of procedure would represent a fairly popular election; for we know
well that in the times of the greatest freedom, the Teutonic idea of a popular vote never went
beyond the mere expression of assent or dissent by the assembled freemen. The initiative was
always left to the king or chief who conducted the meeting, just as much as it was in the ancient
assembly held on the classic plains of Troy. In a capitulary[77] of Charlemagne of the year
809 it is decreed: "ut Scabini boni et veraces cum Comite et populo elegantur et constituantur":
and more specific directions are given by Lothar I. in the year 873, in case of a scabinus
found to be an unjust judge. He says:[78] "ut Missi Nostri ubicumque malos scabinos invenerint
ejiciant, et totius populi consensu in loco eorum bonos eligant." From this latter example
we see that the missi had the power of dismissal "for cause," as well as of nomination. In
fact, the king and his ministers, in the interests of impartial justice, kept constant watch
on the acts and judgments of the scabini, and a law of Lothar I. tells us that "quicumque de
Scabinis deprehensus fuerit propter munera, aut propter amicitam injuste judicare" should be
sent up to the king to render an account of the manner in which he had fulfilled the duties
of his office.

Such then were the duties, the privileges and the restrictions of the first magistrate to whom
we could venture to ascribe any of the attributes of a popular judge: a representative of the
people at the assembly of their ruler; a judge of their suits and of their misdoings at home,
and a check on the arbitrary power of their lord and feudal superior,--we can readily appreciate
that the existence of such an officer within the city must have exercised some influence in
giving to its inhabitants a greater sense of security, and consequently of importance, even
if we cannot claim that in the earliest stages of municipal development it gave birth to any
definite ideas of personal freedom or of municipal independence. But it can easily be seen
that it formed another and an important factor in that idea whose progress we wish to trace,
of a slowly growing feeling of individuality in the city as such, the municipal unit as conceived
apart from the still legally recognized unit, the entire civitas. We have seen the count the
representative of this idea as far as its actual connection with the constitution of the state
was concerned, but it was the scabinus who was to represent it to the consciousness of the
people, and to assist them in rediscovering the lost conception of a municipal unity.

It would be incomplete to conclude this account of the various officers of government, without
some mention of the position held by the bishops at this period. As it has been our duty throughout
this paper to study the municipalities of Italy as only preparing to assume a position of individuality
eventually leading to independence, so it is with regard to the bishops. While their social
influence, as pointed out in the first part of this paper, was always notable, their political
power, which formed one of the important steps in the progress of the communes towards a separate
existence, has its birth at a time which is beyond the limits of this investigation. Not until
the overthrow of the Carlovingian dynasty left Italy the prey of contending factions, and the
crown passing quickly from hand to hand made each applicant anxious to gain the support of
the more prominent electors, did the bishops obtain that legally constituted political power
which, by breaking up and in many cases destroying the rule of the counts and great nobles
in the cities, was the means of bridging over the wide gulf which lay between the idea of a
district under the almost absolute rule of a great lord, and a civic autonomy governed by its
own independent citizens. Even, however, if we are not yet to portray the bishop in a position
of high political importance, we may briefly consider his social power and influence, and,
as we have done with the cities themselves, indicate the steps by which he was enabled ultimately
to gain such an exalted position.

