I obtain these results with a twenty-grain solution of nitrate of silver, a fact that will,
I think, commend the plan to most operators. Thou wilt be able to judge of the result from
the inclosed specimen.[7] I use Canson's paper, either albumenized or plain (but the former
is far preferable). If albumen is used, I dilute it with an equal measure of water, and add
half a grain of common salt (chloride of sodium) to each ounce of the mixture. This is applied
to the paper with a soft flat brush, and all bubbles removed, by allowing a slender stream
of the mixture to flow over its surface: it is then hung up to dry, and afterwards the albumen
is coagulated with a hot iron. If the paper is used plain, a solution of common salt (half
a grain to one ounce of water) is placed in a shallow tray, and the paper floated on its surface
for a minute, and then hung up to dry. Excite, in either case, with an ammonio-nitrate of silver
solution (twenty grains to one ounce of water), by floating the paper, prepared side downwards,
for one minute, and hang up to dry.

Print tolerably strongly, and the proof will be of a reddish-brown. Fix in tolerably strong
solution of hypo. sodæ (I never weigh my hypo., so cannot give the proportion), that either
has been in use some time, or else, if new, has been nearly saturated with darkened chloride
of silver. When fixed, remove the proofs into another vessel of the same solution of hypo.,
to which has been added chloride of gold and acetic acid. The way I do this is to dissolve
one drachm of chloride of gold in two and a half ounces (1200 minims) of water. Of this I take
twenty minims (which will contain one grain Au Cl3) and forty minims of acetic acid (Beaufoy's)
for every dozen proofs (of the size of 7 × 9 in.), that I mean to operate on, and having mixed
the gold and acetic acid with the solution of hypo., place the proofs in it till they attain
the desired colour: they are then to be washed and dried in the usual way.

Knowing that so cheap and easy a process for obtaining these tints would have been a great
boon to me a short time since, I lose no time in communicating this to the readers of "N. &
Q." I shall feel a pleasure in explaining the plan more in detail to any photographer who may
feel disposed to drop me a line.

WILLIAM PUMPHREY.

Osbaldwick, near York.

[Footnote 7: The specimens forwarded by MR. PUMPHREY are most satisfactory.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Baskerville the Printer (Vol. viii., p. 203.).--In reply to MR. ELLIOTT'S inquiry, I beg to
say that Baskerville the printer was merely named as one who had directed his interment in
unconsecrated ground. The exact place of his burial was not deemed a point of importance, but
it having been questioned, I am able to state that the spot was correctly described by me.
Nichols, in his Literary Anecdotes (vol. viii. p. 456.), tells us that "Baskerville was buried
in a tomb of masonry, in the shape of a cone, under a windmill in his garden; on the top of
this windmill, after it fell into disuse, he had erected an urn, and had prepared an inscription,"
of which MR. ELLIOTT has given a portion.

In his will, dated January 6, 1773, he directs his body "to be buried in a conical building
heretofore used as a mill, which I have lately raised higher, and painted and prepared for
it." It seems somewhat surprising that one, who shocked even John Wilkes as "a terrible infidel,"
should have printed a most beautiful folio Bible, at an expense of 2000l., and three or more
editions of the Book of Common Prayer. Still more, in 1762, he tells Walpole that he had a
grant from the University of Cambridge to print their 8vo. and 12mo. Common Prayer Books, and
that for this privilege he laboured under heavy liabilities to the University. Baskerville
doubtless regarded these books with a tradesman's eye, indifferent to the subjects of the works
issued from his press, provided they sold. It would, however, be very unjust to this admirable
printer to name him without praise for the distinguished beauty of his typography: it was clear
and elegant, and he {350} was most curious in the choice both of his paper and ink.

J. H. M.

Lines on Woman (Vol. viii., p. 204.).--The four beautiful lines which W. V. cites are the conclusion
of a poem entitled "Woman," written by Eton Barrett. About the close of the last century, Eton
Barrett and his younger brother Richard Barrett were at a private school on Wandsworth Common.
My brothers and I were their schoolfellows. The Barretts were Irish boys; I think (but I speak
very doubtfully) from Cork. Eton Barrett was a boy of more than ordinary talent. He was a genius
among the lesser lights around him. I remember his writing a play with prologue and epilogue,
which was performed before the master and his family, &c., with so much success, that the master
prohibited any future dramatic performances, fearing, that he might incur blame for encouraging
too much taste for the theatre. Our master gave up his school before the year 1800. Eton Barrett,
a great many years ago, published a little volume of poems, of which "Woman" was one. I do
not remember that I ever met him since our school-days. I have heard that he adopted Tory politics
in Ireland, and that his brother attached himself to O'Connell, and conducted some newspaper;
but this is mere report. Allow me to take this opportunity for observing, that many of the
communications to "N. & Q.," such as those in which matters of fact are stated, ought, it may
justly be urged, to be authenticated by the signature of the contributor. I feel the truth
of this so strongly, that, though I do not sign my name, yet I have thought it right to make
myself known to you, so that you know the person who contributes under the signature

F. W. J.

Haulf-naked (Vol. viii., p. 205.).--The manor house of Halnaker, adjoining Walberton and Goodwood,
is thus spoken of by Dallaway in his Hist. of Sussex, "Rape of Chichester," p. 131.:--"Halnaker,
called in Domesday 'Halneche,' and in writings of very ancient date Halnac, Halnaked, and Halfnaked."
Then follows a short description of the old manor-house.

It has been lately visited by the Archæological Association, under the direction of Lord Talbot
de Malahide; and it is probable that the industrious antiquaries of Sussex will soon give us
a more detailed account of it in their next volume of Transactions.

M. (2.)

Cambridge and Ireland (Vol. viii., p. 270.).--The story of Irish merchants landing at Cambridge
is "very like a whale," "touched upon the deserts of Bohemia." I think, however, that I can
trace the source of this glaring and oft-repeated error, as there really exists a documentary
connexion between Irish cloth and the town of Cambridge.

Referring to a collection of notes on the ancient commerce and manufactures of Ireland, which
I have lately made, I find--cited as an instance of the general use of Irish cloth in England
at an early period--that Henry IV., in 1410, gave a royal grant of tolls, for the purpose of
paving the town of Cambridge; in which, among other articles, Irish cloth is taxed at the rate
of twopence per hundred. The grant, "De villa Cantabrigiæ paveanda," will be found in Rymer's
Foedera.

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

Autobiographical Sketch (Vol. vii., p. 477.).--The fragments found by CHEVERELLS are parts
of The Library of Useless Knowledge, by Athanasius Gasker, Esq., F.R.S., &c.: London, W. Pickering,
1837.

H. J.

Archbishop Chichely (Vol. viii., p. 198).--The Statute Book of All Souls College; Robert Hoveden's
Life of Chichely; and the respective Lives by Arthur Duck and O. L. Spencer, have all been
examined for the date of Henry Chichely's birth, but without success.

The most probable conjecture is, that he was born in 1362; since in 1442 (see his "Letter to
Pope Eugenius," printed in the Appendix to Spencer's Life) he describes himself as having either
completed or entered upon his eightieth year.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

"Discovery of the Inquisition" (Vol. viii., p. 137.).--It is a mistake to suppose that all
John Day's publications are rare. Montanus's Discovery and playne Declaration of sundry subtill
Practices of the Holy Inquisition of Spayne, newly translated, 4to., 1568, is not uncommon.
Herbert and Heber possessed copies; and a copy sold at Saunders's in 1818 for five shillings.
My own copy (a remarkably fine one) cost sixteen shillings at Evans's in 1840. The edition
of 1569, containing some additions, is of greater rarity.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Divining Rod (Vol. viii., p. 293.).--In the first edition of his Mathematical Recreations,
Hutton laughed at the divining rod. In the interval between that and the second edition, a
lady made him change his note, by using one before him at Woolwich. Hutton had the courage
to publish the account of the experiment in the second edition (vol. iv. pp. 216-231.), after
the account he had previously given. By a letter from Hutton to Bruce, printed in the memoir
of the former which the latter wrote, it appears that the lady was Lady Milbanke.

M.

"Pinece with a stink" (Vol. viii, p. 270.).--Archbishop Bramhall's editor should have spelled
the first word pinnace, and then your correspondent MR. BLAKISTON could easily have understood
the {351} allusion. In speaking of the offensive composition, well known to sailors, the word
revenge, and not defend, was used by Bramhall.

R. G.

Longevity (Vol. viii., p. 113.).--I do not think any of your correspondents has noticed the
case of John Whethamstede, Abbot of St. Albans, who wrote a Chronicle of the period between
1441 and 1461: "He was ordained a priest in 1382, and died in 1464, when he had been eighty-two
years in priest's orders, and was above one hundred years old." Surely this is a case sufficiently
authenticated for your more sceptical readers. (Henry's History of Great Britain, 2nd ed.,
Lond. 1788, vol. x. p. 132.)

TEWARS.

Chronograms (Vol. viii., pp. 42. 280.).--The following additional specimen of this once popular
form of numerical puzzle is not, I think, unworthy a corner in "N. & Q."

On the upper border of a sun-dial, affixed to the west end of Nantwich Church, Cheshire, there
appeared, previous to its removal about 1800, the undermentioned inscription:

    "Honor DoMIno pro paCe popVLo sVo parta."

Now, seeing that Nantwich was, during the civil dissensions which culminated in the murder
of Charles I., a rampant hot-bed of anarchy and rebellion, we should hardly be prepared for
such a complete repudiation of those principles as is conveyed in the line before us, did we
not know that the same anxiety to get rid of the "Bare-bones" incubus universally prevailed.
The numerals, it will be seen, make up the number 1661, which was the year of the coronation
of King Charles II.; and, no doubt, also the year in which the dial in question was erected.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Heraldic Notes (Vol. viii., p. 265.).--The bearing of the arms of Clare Hall by Dr. Blythe
is not strictly correct, because, with the exception of the three principal Kings of Arms,
the Earl Marshal, the Master of Ordnance, and a few others especially, arms of office do not
exist in England. The general mode of bearing them is by impalement, giving the preference
(dexter) to the arms of dignity. In the example under notice, the arms of dignity or office
are borne upon a pile, which has somewhat the appearance of an inverted chevron. It is not
at all a common mode of bearing additions; but I remember one case, viz. the grant by King
Henry VIII. to the Seymours, after his marriage to Lady Jane, of the lions of England on a pile.

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

Christian Names (Vol. vii. passim).--May I be permitted to correct one or two errors in MR.
BATES'S Note on this subject, Vol. vii. p. 627.?

The person described as a "certain M. L-P. Saint-Florentin" was no less a person than the Duke
de la Vrillière, who filled several important offices during the reign of Louis XV. The allusion
in the epigram to his "trois noms" has no reference to his names, whether Christian or patronymic,
in the sense in which the question has been discussed in "N. & Q.," but to the three titles
which he successively bore as a public man. He commenced his career as M. de Phélippeaux; was
afterwards created Comte de Saint-Florentin, and sometime before his death was raised to the
dignity of Duke de la Vrillière.

My authority for this statement is the cotemporary work, Les Mémoires secrets de Bachaumont,
where, under date of December, 1770, the epigram is thus introduced, with a variation in the
first line:

    "Un autre plaisant a fait d'avance l'épitaphe de M. le duc de la
    Vrillière. Elle roule sur ses trois noms différents de Phélippeaux,
    Saint-Florentin, et la Vrillière:

     'Ci-git, malgré son rang, un homme fort commun,
      Ayant porté trois noms, et n'en laissant aucun.'"

The sense being, that his titles had been his only distinction, and that even they had not
been sufficient to rescue his character from obscurity and contempt.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

"I put a spoke in his wheel" (Vol. viii., p. 269.).--If G.K., being wronged, should cherish
the unchristian spirit of revenge, let him playfully insert a spoke in the wheel of his friend's
tandem, as it bowls along behind a pair of thorough-bred tits, with twelve months' hard condition
upon old oats in them.

By simply putting a spoke in the wheel of the waggon employed in the removal of the Manchester
College to London, one trustee opposed a decided "impediment to the movement" of that institution.

W. C.

P. S.--Allow me to point out a misprint at Vol. viii., p. 279, "Manners of the Irish:" for
chuse read cheese. My statement {352} was founded on the authority of the Visitation-Book of
the county of Derby, A.D. 1634, in which Anthony Fitzherbert is "Chief Justice of ----;" and,
as the question of his rank as a judge was not one at the moment of communicating my Note,
I made no farther inquiry. I find, however, upon reference to Vincent's Collections for Derbyshire,
that Anthony Fitzherbert is styled, in a very good pedigree of his family, "Unus Justiciariorum
de Co[=i] Banco." Had I turned to Dugdale's Origines Juridiciales, the error might have been
avoided.

THOS. W. KING (York Herald).

Palace at Enfield (Vol. viii., p. 271.).--Queen Elizabeth, in the early part of her reign,
frequently kept her court at Enfield. Her palace was the manor-house, near the church, of which
little now remains. In Lysons' time (1793) it had been in a great measure rebuilt, and divided
into tenements. He adds, "the part which contains the old room is in the occupation of Mrs. Perry."

When I saw this room, about twenty years ago, it was in its original state, with oak panels
and a richly ornamented ceiling. The chimney-piece was supported by columns of the Ionic and
Corinthian order, and decorated with the cognizances of the rose and portcullis, and the arms
of France and England quartered, with the garter and the royal supporters. Underneath was this
motto, "Sola salus servire Deo, sunt cætera fraudes."

In the garden was a magnificent tree, a cedar of Libanus, which was pointed out to me as having
been planted by Queen Elizabeth. But upon this point tradition was at fault. In the Gentleman's
Magazine for 1779, p. 138., may be seen an account of this remarkable cedar, which was planted
by Dr. Robert Uvedale, the botanist, a tenant of the manor-house in 1670.

The church at Enfield does not date farther back than the middle of the fifteenth century.
The devices of a rose and ring, which occur over the arches of the nave, seen also upon the
tower of Hadley Church, with the date 1444, "supposing it to have been, as is very probable,"
says Lysons, "a punning cognizance adopted by one of the priors of Walden, to which monastery
both churches belonged, will fix the building of the present structure at Enfield to the early
part of the fifteenth century."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT. 232.).--Are not your correspondents on the wrong scent as regards the birthplace
of Sir John Vanbrugh? In the memoir prefixed to the collection of his Plays, 2 vols. 12mo.,
1759, it is said:

    "Sir John Vanbrugh, an eminent dramatic writer, son of Mr. Giles
    Vanbrugh of London, merchant, was born in the parish of St. Stephen's,
    Walbrook, in 1666. The family of Vanbrugh were for many years merchants
    of great credit and reputation at Antwerp, and came into England in the
    reign of Queen Elizabeth, on account of the persecution for religion."

Mr. Cunningham (Handbook of London, p. 282.) speaks of William Vanderbergh, the supposed father
of Sir John, as residing in Lawrence-Poultney Lane in 1677. He refers to Strype's map of Walbrook
and Dowgate wards, and A Collection of the Names of the Merchants living in and about the City
of London, 12mo. 1677.

The writer of the notice of Sir John Vanbrugh in Chambers' Cyclopædia of English Literature,
vol. i. p. 597., says:

    "Vanbrugh was the son of a successful sugar-baker, who rose to be an
    esquire, and comptroller of the treasury chamber, besides marrying the
    daughter of Sir Dudley Carlton. It is doubtful whether the dramatist
    was born in the French Bastile, or the parish of St. Stephen's,
    Walbrook. The time of his birth was about the year 1666, when Louis
    XIV. declared war against England. It is certain he was in France at
    the age of nineteen, and remained there some years."

The family vault of the Vanbrughs is certainly in St. Stephen's Church, Walbrook, where Sir
John was buried on the 30th of March, 1726.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Greek Inscription on a Font (Vol. viii., p. 198.).---This Query has already been answered and
illustrated in Vol. vii., pp. 178. 366. 417.; but the following passage may be of interest,
as affording instances of the same inscription in France, and pointing out the probable source
of its usage, viz. from the ancient Greek metropolitan church at Constantinople:

    "St. Mémin est une abbaye célèbre sous l'ancien nom de Micy, sur la
    rivière de Loire, proche d'Orléans. Il y a dans l'église de ce
    monastère un benétier de forme ronde, avec cette inscription grecque
    gravée sur le bord du bassin, [GREEK: NIPSON ANOMÊMA MÊMONAN OPSIN]. La
    même chose est à Paris, au benétier de St. Etienne d'Egrès, et aussi
    autrefois à celui de Sainte Sophie à Constantinople."--Voyages
    liturgiques de France, par le Sieur Moleon, p. 219., 8vo. 1718.

It may be added (on Cole's authority, vol. XXXV. f. 19b.) that the same inscription is inscribed
round a large silver basin used formerly at the master's table on festival days, in Trinity
College Hall, Cambridge; and I have also seen it on a sliver-gilt rose-water basin, introduced
at the banquets given by the master of Magdalene College in the same university.

[mu].

"Fierce" (Vol. viii., p. 280.).--In this part of the country the words pert, pronounced "peart,"
and pure, bear the same meaning, of well in health and spirits.

FRANCIS JOHN SCOTT.

Tewkesbury.

{353}

Giving Quarter (Vol. viii., p. 246.).--It must be observed that the older form of the expression
is "keeping quarter:"

 "That every one should kill the man he caught,
  To keep no quarter."--Drayton in Richardson.

Now very obvious application of the word quarter, instanced by Todd, is to signify the proper
station or appointed place of any one.

    "They do best who, if they cannot but admit love, yet make it keep
    quarter, and sever it wholly from their serious affairs."--Bacon's
    Essays.

To keep quarter, then, is to keep within measure, within the limits or bounds appointed by
some paramount consideration; and hence, as in the following passage from Shakspeare (where
it is clumsily interpreted amity or companionship), the word is used as synonymous with terms
or conditions:

             "Friends all but now,
  In quarter and in terms like bride and groom
  Divesting them for bed, and then but now
  Swords out and tilting one at other's breast."

In the same sense Clarendon speaks of "offering them quarter for their lives if they would
give up the castle," i. e. offering them conditions for their lives on their performing their
part of the bargain.

Again, in a passage of Swift, cited by Todd: "Mr. Wharton, who detected some hundred of the
bishop's mistakes, meets with very ill quarter from his Lordship," i. e. meets with very ill
conditions of treatment from him. Finally, to give quarter in the military sense is to give
conditions absolutely, as opposed to the unmitigated exercise of the victor's power, and, as
the most important of all conditions, to spare life.

H. W.

Sheriffs of Glamorganshire (Vol. iii., p. 186.).--The list of the Glamorganshire sheriffs here
inquired for was not printed by Mr. Traherne, but by the Rev. H. H. Knight, M.A., of Neath,
and of Nottage Court, in Glamorganshire: it is a little pamphlet in a paper cover.

TEWARS.

"When the maggot bites" (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--A correspondent asks why a thing done on the
spur of the moment is said to be done "when the maggot bites." It signifies rather doing a
thing when the fancy takes one. When a person acts from no apparent motive in external circumstances,
he is said to have a maggot in his head, to have a bee in his bonnet or, in French, "Avoir
des rats dans la tête;" in Platt-Deutsch, to have a mouse-nest in his head, the eccentric behaviour
being attributed to the influence of the internal irritation.

H. W.

Connexion between the Celtic and Latin Languages (Vol. viii., p. 174.).--Your correspondent
M. will find much valuable information on this subject in a work entitled Thoughts on the Origin
and Descent of the Gael, by James Grant, Esq., Advocate: Edinburgh, Constable & Co., 1814.

FRANCIS JOHN SCOTT.

Tewkesbury.

Bacon's Essays (Vol. viii., p. 143.).--Bacon's Essay VII.: "Optimum elige," &c. Pythagoras,
in Plutarch de Exilio.--Essay XV.: "Dolendi modus," &c. Plin., lib. viii. ep. 17. fin.

C. P. E.

"Exiguum est." &c. (Vol. viii., p. 197.).--"Exiguum est ad legem bonum esse." Vide Senec. de
Ira, ii. 27.

C. P. E.

Muffs worn by Military Men on a March (Vol. viii., p. 281.).--In the year 1592 the Duke of
Nevers was despatched by Henry IV. with all speed to a place called Bully, in order to cut
off the retreat of the Duke of Guise, lately defeated near Bures. Sully speaks of him thus:

    "The Duke of Nevers, the slowest of men, began by sending to make
    choice of the most favourable roads, and marched with a slow pace
    towards Bully, with his hands and his nose in his muff, and his whole
    person well packed up in his coach."--Memoirs of Sully, vol. i. p.
    235., English edit., Edinburgh, 1773.

FRANCIS JOHN SCOTT.

Tewkesbury.

"Earth says to Earth" (Vol. vii., pp. 498. 576.).--A fac-simile of these lines, discovered
in the chapel of the Guild of the Holy Cross at Stratford-on-Avon (with many other curious
plates), may be seen in Fisher's Illustrations of the Paintings, &c., edited by J. G. Nichols,
Esq., and published in 1802, and afterwards continued.

ERICA speaks of "Weaver's" Account. Unless this is a misprint for "Wheler's" (Account of Stratford-on-Avon),
perhaps he will oblige me with the full title of Weaver's work.

ESTE.

Poetical Tavern Signs (Vol. viii., p. 242.).--I would add the following sign-inscription to
those noted by R. C. WARDE. It was on the walls of a tavern half-way up Richmond Hill, three
miles south of Douglas, Isle of Man, kept by a man of the name of Abraham Lowe:

 "I'm Abraham Lowe, and half-way up the hill,
  If I were higher up, what's funnier still,
  I should be belowe. Come in and take your fill
  Of porter, ale, wine, spirits, what you will.
  Step in, my friend, I pray no farther go;
  My prices, like myself, are always low."

J. G. C.

Unkid (Vol. viii., p. 221.).--Is not the word hunks, so common in people's mouths,--An old
hunks, an old miser or miserable wretch, to be referred to the same derivation as unkid, hunkid?

F. B--w.

{354}

Camera Lucida (Vol. viii., p. 271.).--CARET will find Dr. Wollaston's description of his invention,
the "Camera Lucida," in the 17th volume of Nicholson's Journal.

M. C. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Messrs. MacMillan of Cambridge have commenced the publication of a series of theological manuals
by A History of the Christian Church (Middle Age), by Charles Hardwick, M.A.; which, although
written for this series, claims to be regarded as an integral and independent treatise on the
Mediæval Church. The work, which extends from the time of Gregory the Great to 1520, when Luther,
having been extruded from those churches that adhered to the communion of the Pope, established
a provisional form of government, and opened a fresh era in the history of Europe, is distinguished
by the same diligent research and conscientious acknowledgment of authorities which procured
for Mr. Hardwick's History of the Articles of Religion such a favourable reception. The work
is illustrated by four maps, which have been especially constructed for it by Mr. A. Keith
Johnston.

The amiable and accomplished author of Proposals for Christian Union, and of Welsh Sketches,
has just issued the third and concluding series of his little volumes on Welsh history, civil
and ecclesiastical.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--The Journal of Sacred Literature, No. IX. for October, continues to put forth
strong claims to the support of those who have a taste for pure biblical literature. From the
address of its new editor, it would seem not to be so well known as the object for which it
is established plainly deserves.--Cyclopædia Bibliographica, Part XIII. for October, continues
its useful course. Every succeeding number only serves to prove how valuable the work will
be when completed.--The Shakspeare Repository, edited by J. H. Fennell, No. III., is well worth
the attention of our numerous Shakspearian readers.

BEAUMONT'S PSYCHE. 2nd Edit. folio. Camb., 1702.

J. N. RADCLIFFE. We shall be glad to receive the Legendary Lore mentioned by our Correspondent.

REV. H. G. Your letter has been forwarded to A. F. B. (Diss).

S. Z. Z. S. We have a letter waiting for this Correspondent; how can we forward it?

C. E. F. Warm water and a few small shot will thoroughly cleanse the bottles in which collodion
has been kept.

