BOSWELL'S

LIFE OF JOHNSON

INCLUDING BOSWELL'S JOURNAL OF A TOUR TO THE HEBRIDES, AND JOHNSON'S DIARY OF A JOURNEY INTO
NORTH WALES

EDITED BY

GEORGE BIRKBECK HILL, D.C.L.

PEMBROKE COLLEGE, OXFORD

IN SIX VOLUMES

VOLUME II.--LIFE (1765-1776)

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

Notwithstanding his long silence, I never omitted to write to him when I had any thing worthy
of communicating. I generally kept copies of my letters to him, that I might have a full view
of our correspondence, and never be at a loss to understand any reference in his letters[5].
He kept the greater part of mine very carefully; and a short time before his death was attentive
enough to seal them up in bundles, and order them to be delivered to me, which was accordingly
done. Amongst them I found one, of which I had not made a copy, and which I own I read with
pleasure at the distance of almost twenty years. It is dated November, 1765, at the palace
of Pascal Paoli, in Corte, the capital of Corsica, and is full of generous enthusiasm[6]. After
giving a sketch of what I had seen and heard in that island, it proceeded thus: 'I dare to
call this a spirited tour. I dare, to challenge your approbation.'

This letter produced the following answer, which I found on my arrival at Paris.

A Mr. Mr. BOSWELL, chez Mr. WATERS, Banquier, a Paris.

'DEAR SIR,

'Apologies are seldom of any use. We will delay till your arrival the reasons, good or bad,
which have made me such a sparing and ungrateful correspondent. Be assured, for the present,
that nothing has lessened either the esteem or love with which I dismissed you at Harwich.
Both have been increased by all that I have been told of you by yourself or others; and[7]
when you return, you will return to an unaltered, and, I hope, unalterable friend.

'All that you have to fear from me is the vexation of disappointing me. No man loves to frustrate
expectations which have been formed in his favour; and the pleasure which I promise myself
from your journals and remarks is so great, that perhaps no degree of attention or discernment
will be sufficient to afford it.

'Come home, however, and take your chance. I long to see you, and to hear you; and hope that
we shall not be so long separated again. Come home, and expect such a welcome as is due to
him whom a wise and noble curiosity has led, where perhaps no native of this country ever was
before[8].

'I have no news to tell you that can deserve your notice; nor would I willingly lessen the
pleasure that any novelty may give you at your return. I am afraid we shall find it difficult
to keep among us a mind which has been so long feasted with variety. But let us try what esteem
and kindness can effect.

'As your father's liberality has indulged you with so long a ramble, I doubt not but you will
think his sickness, or even his desire to see you, a sufficient reason for hastening your return.
The longer we live, and the more we think, the higher value we learn to put on the friendship
and tenderness of parents and of friends. Parents we can have but once; and he promises himself
too much, who enters life with the expectation of finding many friends. Upon some motive, I
hope, that you will be here soon; and am willing to think that it will be an inducement to
your return, that it is sincerely desired by, dear Sir,

'Your affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. Much, no doubt, both of the sentiments and expression,
were derived from conversation with him; and it was certainly submitted to his friendly revision:
but in the year 1783, he, at my request, marked with a pencil the lines which he had furnished,
which are only line 420th,

'To stop too fearful, and too faint to go;'

and the concluding ten lines, except the last couplet but one, which I distinguish by the Italick
character:

'How small of all that human hearts endure, That part which kings or laws[11] can cause or
cure. Still to ourselves in every place consign'd, Our own felicity we make or find[12]; With
secret course, which no loud storms annoy, Glides the smooth current of domestick joy: The
lifted axe, the agonizing wheel, Luke's iron crown, and Damien's bed of steel, To men remote
from power, but rarely known, Leave reason, faith, and conscience, all our own.'

He added, 'These are all of which I can be sure[13].' They bear a small proportion to the whole,
which consists of four hundred and thirty-eight verses. Goldsmith, in the couplet which he
inserted, mentions Luke as a person well known, and superficial readers have passed it over
quite smoothly; while those of more attention have been as much perplexed by Luke, as by Lydiat[14],
in The Vanity of Human Wishes. The truth is, that Goldsmith himself was in a mistake. In the
Respublica Hungarian[15], there is an account of a desperate rebellion in the year 1514, headed
by two brothers, of the name of Zeck, George and Luke. When it was quelled, George, not Luke,
was punished by his head being encircled with a red-hot iron crown: 'corona candescente ferrea
coronatur[16].' The same severity of torture was exercised on the Earl of Athol, one of the
murderers of King James I. of Scotland. It is our first duty to serve society, and, after we
have done that, we may attend wholly to the salvation of our own souls. A youthful passion
for abstracted devotion should not be encouraged[25].'

I introduced the subject of second sight, and other mysterious manifestations; the fulfilment
of which, I suggested, might happen by chance. JOHNSON. Nor can I yet allow that he deserves
the very severe censure which Johnson pronounced upon him. His absurd preference of savage
to civilised life[35], and other singularities, are proofs rather of a defect in his understanding,
than of any depravity in his heart. And notwithstanding the unfavourable opinion which many
worthy men have expressed of his 'Profession de Foi du Vicaire Savoyard', I cannot help admiring
it as the performance of a man full of sincere reverential submission to Divine Mystery, though
beset with perplexing doubts; a state of mind to be viewed with pity rather than with anger.
I think it looks very pretty about me. JOHNSON.'

'March 9, 1766. I have seldom indulged more hope of any thing than of being able to improve
our acquaintance to friendship. Many a time have I placed myself again at Langton, and imagined
the pleasure with which I should walk to Partney[56] in a summer morning; but this is no longer
possible. We must now endeavour to preserve what is left us,--his example of piety and oeconomy.
I hope you make what enquiries you can, and write down what is told you. The little things
which distinguish domestick characters are soon forgotten: if you delay to enquire, you will
have no information; if you neglect to write, information will be vain[57].

'His art of life certainly deserves to be known and studied. He lived in plenty and elegance
upon an income which, to many would appear indigent, and to most, scanty. How he lived, therefore,
every man has an interest in knowing. His death, I hope, was peaceful; it was surely happy.

'I wish I had written sooner, lest, writing now, I should renew your grief; but I would not
forbear saying what I have now said.

'This loss is, I hope, the only misfortune of a family to whom no misfortune at all should
happen, if my wishes could avert it. Let me know how you all go on. Has Mr. Langton got him
the little horse that I recommended? It would do him good to ride about his estate in fine weather.

'Be pleased to make my compliments to Mrs. Langton, and to dear Miss Langton, and Miss Di,
and Miss Juliet, and to every body else.

'The wonder, with most that hear an account of his oeconomy, will be, how he was able, with
such an income, to do so much, especially when it is considered that he paid for everything
he had; he had no land, except the two or three small fields which I have said he rented; and,
instead of gaining any thing by their produce, I have reason to think he lost by them; however,
they furnished him with no further assistance towards his housekeeping, than grass for his
horses, (not hay, for that I know he bought,) and for two cows. Every Monday morning he settled
his family accounts, and so kept up a constant attention to the confining his expences within
his income; and to do it more exactly, compared those expences with a computation he had made,
how much that income would afford him every week and day of the year. One of his oeconomical
practices was, as soon as any repair was wanting in or about his house, to have it immediately
performed. When he had money to spare, he chose to lay in a provision of linen or clothes,
or any other necessaries; as then, he said, he could afford it, which he might not be so well
able to do when the actual want came; in consequence of which method, he had a considerable
supply of necessary articles lying by him, beside what was in use.

'But the main particular that seems to have enabled him to do so much with his income, was,
that he paid for every thing as soon as he had it, except, alone, what were current accounts,
such as rent for his house and servants' wages; and these he paid at the stated times with
the utmost exactness. He gave notice to the tradesmen of the neighbouring market-towns that
they should no longer have his custom, if they let any of his servants have anything without
their paying for it. Thus he put it out of his power to commit those imprudences to which those
are liable that defer their payments by using their money some other way than where it ought
to go. And whatever money he had by him, he knew that it was not demanded elsewhere, but that
he might safely employ it as he pleased.

'His example was confined, by the sequestered place of his abode, to the observation of few,
though his prudence and virtue would have made it valuable to all who could have known it.--These
few particulars, which I knew myself, or have obtained from those who lived with him, may afford
instruction, and be an incentive to that wise art of living, which he so successfully practised.'
BOSWELL.

'THE CLUB holds very well together. Monday is my night[58]. I continue to rise tolerably well,
and read more than I did. I hope something will yet come on it[59]. I am, Sir,

'Your most affectionate servant, 'SAM JOHNSON'

'May 10, 1766, Johnson's-court, Fleet-street.'

After I had been some time in Scotland, I mentioned to him in a letter that 'On my first return
to my native country, after some years of absence, I was told of a vast number of my acquaintance
who were all gone to the land of forgetfulness, and I found myself like a man stalking over
a field of battle, who every moment perceives some one lying dead.' I complained of irresolution,
and mentioned my having made a vow as a security for good conduct. I wrote to him again, without
being able to move his indolence; nor did I hear from him till he had received a copy of my
inaugural Exercise, or Thesis in Civil Law, which I published at my admission as an Advocate,
as is the custom in Scotland. He then wrote to me as follows:

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'The reception of your Thesis put me in mind of my debt to you Why did you ----[60]. I will
punish you for it, by telling you that your Latin wants correction[61]. In the beginning, Spei
alterae, not to urge that it should be prima, is not grammatical: alterae should be alteri.
In the next line you seem to use genus absolutely, for what we call family, that is, for illustrious
extraction, I doubt without authority. Homines nullius originis, for Nullis orti majoribus,
or, Nullo loco nati, is, I am afraid, barbarous.--Ruddiman is dead[62].

'I have now vexed you enough, and will try to please you. Your resolution to obey your father
I sincerely approve; but do not accustom yourself to enchain your volatility by vows: they
will sometime leave a thorn in your mind, which you will, perhaps, never be able to extract
or eject. Take this warning, it is of great importance[63].

'The study of the law is what you very justly term it, copious and generous[64]; and in adding
your name to its professors, you have done exactly what I always wished, when I wished you
best. I hope that you will continue to pursue it vigorously and constantly[65]. You gain, at
least, what is no small advantage, security from those troublesome and wearisome discontents,
which are always obtruding themselves upon a mind vacant, unemployed, and undetermined.

'You ought to think it no small inducement to diligence and perseverance, that they will please
your father. We all live upon the hope of pleasing somebody; and the pleasure of pleasing ought
to be greatest, and at last always will be greatest, when our endeavours are exerted in consequence
of our duty.

'Life is not long, and too much of it must not pass in idle deliberation how it shall be spent;
deliberation, which those who begin it by prudence, and continue it with subtilty, must, after
long expence of thought, conclude by chance[66]. To prefer one future mode of life to another,
upon just reasons, requires faculties which it has not pleased our Creator to give us.

'If, therefore, the profession you have chosen has some unexpected inconveniencies, console
yourself by reflecting that no profession is without them; and that all the importunities and
perplexities of business are softness and luxury, compared with the incessant cravings of vacancy,
and the unsatisfactory expedients of idleness.

"Haec sunt quce nostra polui te voce monere[67]; Vade, age."

'As to your History of Corsica, you have no materials which others have not, or may not have.
You have, somehow, or other, warmed your imagination. I wish there were some cure, like the
lover's leap, for all heads of which some single idea has obtained an unreasonable and irregular
possession. Mind your own affairs, and leave the Corsicans to theirs. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, Aug. 21, 1766.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Auchinleck, Nov. 6, 1766. 'MUCH ESTEEMED AND DEAR SIR,

'I plead not guilty to[68]----

'Having thus, I hope, cleared myself of the charge brought against me, I presume you will not
be displeased if I escape the punishment which you have decreed for me unheard. If you have
discharged the arrows of criticism against an innocent man, you must rejoice to find they have
missed him, or have not been pointed so as to wound him.

'To talk no longer in allegory, I am, with all deference, going to offer a few observations
in defence of my Latin, which you have found fault with.

'You think I should have used spei primae, instead of spei alterae. Spes is, indeed, often
used to express something on which we have a future dependence, as in Virg. Yet it is also
used to express any thing on which we have a present dependence, and is well applied to a man
of distinguished influence, our support, our refuge, our praesidium, as Horace calls Maecenas.
So, AEneid xii. l. 57, Queen Amata addresses her son-in-law Turnus:--"Spes tu nunc una:" and
he was then no future hope, for she adds,

"... decus imperiumque Latini Te penes;"

which might have been said of my Lord Bute some years ago. Now I consider the present Earl
of Bute to be 'Excelsae familiae de Bute spes prima;' and my Lord Mountstuart, as his eldest
son, to be 'spes altera.' So in AEneid xii. l. 168, after having mentioned Pater AEneas, who
was the present spes, the reigning spes, as my German friends would say, the spes prima, the
poet adds,

"Et juxta Ascanius, magnae spes altera Romae."

'You think alterae ungrammatical, and you tell me it should have been alteri. You must recollect,
that in old times alter was declined regularly; and when the ancient fragments preserved in
the Juris Civilis Fontes were written, it was certainly declined in the way that I use it.
This, I should think, may protect a lawyer who writes alterae in a dissertation upon part of
his own science. But as I could hardly venture to quote fragments of old law to so classical
a man as Mr. Johnson, I have not made an accurate search into these remains, to find examples
of what I am able to produce in poetical composition. We find in Plaut. Rudens, act iii. scene 4,

"Nam Jiuic alters patria qua: sit profecto nescio."

Plautus is, to be sure, an old comick writer: but in the days of Scipio and Lelius, we find,
Terent. Heautontim. act ii. scene 3,

".... hoc ipsa in itinere alterae Dum narrat, forte audivi."

'You doubt my having authority for using genus absolutely, for what we call family, that is,
for illustrious extraction. Now I take genus in Latin, to have much the same signification
with birth in English; both in their primary meaning expressing simply descent, but both made
to stand [Greek: kat exochaen] noble descent. Genus is thus used in Hor. lib. ii. Sat. v. 1. 8,

"Et genus et virtus, nisi cum re, vilior alga est."

'And in lib. i. Epist. vi. 1. 37,

"Et genus et forinam Regina pecunia donat."

'And in the celebrated contest between Ajax and Ulysses, Ovid's Metamorph. lib. xiii. 1. 140,

"Nam genus et proavos, et quae--non fecimus ipsi Vix ea nostra voco."

'Origo is used to signify extraction, as in Virg. AEneid i. 1. 286,

"Nascetur pulchrd Trojanus origine Caesar."

And in AEneid x. 1. 618,

"Ille tamen nostra deducit origine nomen"

And as nullus is used for obscure, is it not in the genius of the Latin language to write nullius
originis, for obscure extraction?

'I have defended myself as well as I could.

'Might I venture to differ from you with regard to the utility of vows? I am sensible that
it would be very dangerous to make vows rashly, and without a due consideration. But I cannot
help thinking that they may often be of great advantage to one of a variable judgement and
irregular inclinations. I always remember a passage in one of your letters to our Italian friend
Baretti; where talking of the monastick life, you say you do not wonder that serious men should
put themselves under the protection of a religious order, when they have found how unable they
are to take care of themselves.[69] For my own part, without affecting to be a Socrates, I
am sure I have a more than ordinary struggle to maintain with the Evil Principle; and all the
methods I can devise are little enough to keep me tolerably steady in the paths of rectitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am ever, with the highest veneration, 'Your affectionate humble servant, 'JAMES BOSWELL.'

It appears from Johnson's diary, that he was this year at Mr. Thrale's, from before Midsummer
till after Michaelmas, and that he afterwards passed a month at Oxford. He had then contracted
a great intimacy with Mr. Chambers of that University, afterwards Sir Robert Chambers, one
of the Judges in India.[70]

He published nothing this year in his own name; but the noble dedication[71][*] to the King,
of Gwyn's London and Westminster Improved, was written by him; and he furnished the Preface,[Dagger]
and several of the pieces, which compose a volume of Miscellanies by Mrs. Anna Williams, the
blind lady who had an asylum in his house. Of these, there are his 'Epitaph on Philips,'[72][*]
'Translation of a Latin Epitaph on Sir Thomas Hanmer,'[73][Dagger] 'Friendship, an Ode,'[74][*]
and, 'The Ant,'[*] a paraphrase from the Proverbs, of which I have a copy in his own hand-writing;
and, from internal evidence, I ascribe to him, 'To Miss ----, on her giving the Authour a gold
and silk net-work Purse of her own weaving'[75]; [Dagger] and, 'The happy Life.'[76][Dagger]

Most of the pieces in this volume have evidently received additions from his superiour pen,
particularly 'Verses to Mr. Richardson, on his Sir Charles Grandison;' 'The Excursion;' 'Reflections
on a Grave digging in Westminster Abbey.'[77] There is in this collection a poem 'On the Death
of Stephen Grey, the Electrician;'[*] which, on reading it, appeared to me to be undoubtedly
Johnson's. I asked Mrs. Williams whether it was not his. 'Sir, (said she, with some warmth,)
I wrote that poem before I had the honour of Dr. Johnson's acquaintance.' I, however, was so
much impressed with my first notion, that I mentioned it to Johnson, repeating, at the same
time, what Mrs. Williams had said. His answer was, 'It is true, Sir, that she wrote it before
she was acquainted with me; but she has not told you that I wrote it all over again, except
two lines.'[78] 'The Fountains,'[dagger] a beautiful little Fairy tale in prose, written with
exquisite simplicity, is one of Johnson's productions; and I cannot with-hold from Mrs. Thrale
the praise of being the authour of that admirable poem, 'The Three Warnings.'

He wrote this year a letter, not intended for publication, which has, perhaps, as strong marks
of his sentiment and style, as any of his compositions. The original is in my possession. It
is addressed to the late Mr. William Drummond, bookseller in Edinburgh, a gentleman of good
family, but small estate, who took arms for the house of Stuart in 1745; and during his concealment
in London till the act of general pardon came out obtained the acquaintance of Dr. Johnson,
who justly esteemed him as a very worthy man. It seems, some of the members of the society
in Scotland for propagating Christian knowledge, had opposed the scheme of translating the
holy scriptures into the Erse or Gaelick language, from political considerations of the disadvantage
of keeping up the distinction between the Highlanders and the other inhabitants of North-Britain.
Dr. Johnson being informed of this, I suppose by Mr. Drummond, wrote with a generous indignation
as follows:

'To MR. WILLIAM DRUMMOND.

'SIR,

'I did not expect to hear that it could be, in an assembly convened for the propagation of
Christian knowledge, a question whether any nation uninstructed in religion should receive
instruction; or whether that instruction should be imparted to them by a translation of the
holy books into their own language. If obedience to the will of God be necessary to happiness,
and knowledge of his will be necessary to obedience, I know not how he that with-holds this
knowledge, or delays it, can be said to love his neighbour as himself. He that voluntarily
continues ignorance, is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces; as to him that should
extinguish the tapers of a light-house, might justly be imputed the calamities of shipwrecks.
Christianity is the highest perfection of humanity; and as no man is good but as he wishes
the good of others, no man can be good in the highest degree who wishes not to others the largest
measures of the greatest good. To omit for a year, or for a day, the most efficacious method
of advancing Christianity, in compliance with any purposes that terminate on this side of the
grave, is a crime of which I know not that the world has yet had an example, except in the
practice of the planters of America,[79] a race of mortals whom, I suppose, no other man wishes
to resemble.[80]

'The Papists have, indeed, denied to the laity the use of the bible; but this prohibition,
in few places now very rigorously enforced, is defended by arguments, which have for their
foundation the care of souls. To obscure, upon motives merely political, the light of revelation,
is a practice reserved for the reformed; and, surely, the blackest midnight of popery is meridian
sunshine to such a reformation. I am not very willing that any language should be totally extinguished.
The similitude and derivation of languages afford the most indubitable proof of the traduction
of nations, and the genealogy of mankind.[81] They add often physical certainty to historical
evidence; and often supply the only evidence of ancient migrations, and of the revolutions
of ages which left no written monuments behind them.

'Every man's opinions, at least his desires, are a little influenced by his favourite studies.
My zeal for languages may seem, perhaps, rather over-heated, even to those by whom I desire
to be well-esteemed. To those who have nothing in their thoughts but trade or policy, present
power, or present money, I should not think it necessary to defend my opinions; but with men
of letters I would not unwillingly compound, by wishing the continuance of every language,
however narrow in its extent, or however incommodious for common purposes, till it is reposited
in some version of a known book, that it may be always hereafter examined and compared with
other languages, and then permitting its disuse. For this purpose, the translation of the bible
is most to be desired. It is not certain that the same method will not preserve the Highland
language, for the purposes of learning, and abolish it from daily use. When the Highlanders
read the Bible, they will naturally wish to have its obscurities cleared, and to know the history,
collateral or appendant. Knowledge always desires increase: it is like fire, which must first
be kindled by some external agent, but which will afterwards propagate itself. When they once
desire to learn, they will naturally have recourse to the nearest language by which that desire
can be gratified; and one will tell another that if he would attain knowledge, he must learn
English.

'This speculation may, perhaps, be thought more subtle than the grossness of real life will
easily admit. Let it, however, be remembered, that the efficacy of ignorance has been long
tried, and has not produced the consequence expected. Let knowledge, therefore, take its turn;
and let the patrons of privation stand awhile aside, and admit the operation of positive principles.

'You will be pleased, Sir, to assure the worthy man who is employed in the new translation,[82]
that he has my wishes for his success; and if here or at Oxford I can be of any use, that I
shall think it more than honour to promote his undertaking.

'I am sorry that I delayed so long to write. 'I am, Sir, 'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Johnson's-court, Fleet-street, Aug. 13, 1766.'

The opponents of this pious scheme being made ashamed of their conduct, the benevolent undertaking
was allowed to go on[83].

The following letters, though not written till the year after, being chiefly upon the same
subject, are here inserted.

'TO MR. WILLIAM DRUMMOND.

'DEAR SIR,

'That my letter should have had such effects as you mention, gives me great pleasure. I hope
you do not flatter me by imputing to me more good than I have really done. Those whom my arguments
have persuaded to change their opinion, shew such modesty and candour as deserve great praise.

'I hope the worthy translator goes diligently forward. He has a higher reward in prospect than
any honours which this world can bestow. I wish I could be useful to him.

'The publication of my letter, if it could be of use in a cause to which all other causes are
nothing, I should not prohibit. But first, I would have you consider whether the publication
will really do any good; next, whether by printing and distributing a very small number, you
may not attain all that you propose; and, what perhaps I should have said first, whether the
letter, which I do not now perfectly remember, be fit to be printed.

'If you can consult Dr. Robertson, to whom I am a little known, I shall be satisfied about
the propriety of whatever he shall direct. If he thinks that it should be printed, I entreat
him to revise it; there may, perhaps, be some negligent lines written, and whatever is amiss,
he knows very well how to rectify[84].

'Be pleased to let me know, from time to time, how this excellent design goes forward.

'Make my compliments to young Mr. Drummond, whom I hope you will live to see such as you desire
him.

'I have not lately seen Mr. Elphinston[85], but believe him to be prosperous.

'SIR,

'I returned this week from the country, after an absence of near six months, and found your
letter with many others, which I should have answered sooner, if I had sooner seen them.

'Dr. Robertson's opinion was surely right. Men should not be told of the faults which they
have mended. I am glad the old language is taught, and honour the translator as a man whom
GOD has distinguished by the high office of propagating his word.

'I must take the liberty of engaging you in an office of charity. Mrs. Heely, the wife of Mr.
Heely, who had lately some office in your theatre, is my near relation, and now in great distress.
They wrote me word of their situation some time ago, to which I returned them an answer which
raised hopes of more than it is proper for me to give them. Their representation of their affairs
I have discovered to be such as cannot be trusted; and at this distance, though their case
requires haste, I know not how to act. She, or her daughters, may be heard of at Canongate
Head. I must beg, Sir, that you will enquire after them, and let me know what is to be done.
I am willing to go to ten pounds, and will transmit you such a sum, if upon examination you
find it likely to be of use. If they are in immediate want, advance them what you think proper.
What I could do, I would do for the women, having no great reason to pay much regard to Heely
himself[86].

'I believe you may receive some intelligence from Mrs. Baker, of the theatre, whose letter
I received at the same time with yours; and to whom, if you see her, you will make my excuse
for the seeming neglect of answering her.

'Whatever you advance within ten pounds shall be immediately returned to you, or paid as you
shall order. I trust wholly to your judgement.

'I am, Sir, &c. 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, Johnson's-court, Fleet-street, Oct. 24, 1767.'

Mr. Cuthbert Shaw[87], alike distinguished by his genius, misfortunes, and misconduct, published
this year a poem, called The Race, by 'Mercurius Spur, Esq.[88],' in which he whimsically made
the living poets of England contend for pre-eminence of fame by running:

'Prove by their heels the prowess of the head.'

In this poem there was the following portrait of Johnson:

'Here Johnson comes,--unblest with outward grace, His rigid morals stamp'd upon his face. While
strong conceptions struggle in his brain; (For even wit is brought to bed with pain:) To view
him, porters with their loads would rest, And babes cling frighted to the nurse's breast. With
looks convuls'd he roars in pompous strain, And, like an angry lion, shakes his mane. The Nine,
with terrour struck, who ne'er had seen, Aught human with so horrible a mien, Debating whether
they should stay or run, Virtue steps forth, and claims him for her son: With gentle speech
she warns him now to yield, Nor stain his glories in the doubtful field; But wrapt in conscious
worth, content sit down, Since Fame, resolv'd his various pleas to crown, Though forc'd his
present claim to disavow, Had long reserv'd a chaplet for his brow.

We have the following notice in his devotional record:

'August 2, 1767. I have been disturbed and unsettled for a long time, and have been without
resolution to apply to study or to business, being hindered by sudden snatches[122].'

He, however, furnished Mr. Adams with a Dedication[*] to the King of that ingenious gentleman's
Treatise on the Globes, conceived and expressed in such a manner as could not fail to be very
grateful to a Monarch, distinguished for his love of the sciences.

This year was published a ridicule of his style, under the title of Lexiphanes. Sir John Hawkins
ascribes it to Dr. Kenrick[123]; but its authour was one Campbell, a Scotch purser in the navy.
The ridicule consisted in applying Johnson's 'words of large meaning[124]' to insignificant
matters, as if one should put the armour of Goliath upon a dwarf. The contrast might be laughable;
but the dignity of the armour must remain the same in all considerate minds. This malicious
drollery, therefore, it may easily be supposed, could do no harm to its illustrious object[125].

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ., AT MR. ROTHWELL'S, PERFUMER, IN NEW BOND-STREET, LONDON.

'DEAR SIR,

'That you have been all summer in London, is one more reason for which I regret my long stay
in the country. I hope that you will not leave the town before my return. We have here only
the chance of vacancies in the passing carriages, and I have bespoken one that may, if it happens,
bring me to town on the fourteenth of this month; but this is not certain.

'It will be a favour if you communicate this to Mrs. Williams: I long to see all my friends.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Lichfield, Oct. 10, 1767.'

1768: AETAT.

I asked him whether, as a moralist, he did not think that the practice of the law, in some
degree, hurt the nice feeling of honesty. JOHNSON. 'Why no, Sir, if you act properly. You are
not to deceive your clients with false representations of your opinion: you are not to tell
lies to a judge.' BOSWELL. 'But what do you think of supporting a cause which you know to be
bad?' JOHNSON. 'Sir, you do not know it to be good or bad till the Judge determines it. I have
said that you are to state facts fairly; so that your thinking, or what you call knowing, a
cause to be bad, must be from reasoning, must be from your supposing your arguments to be weak
and inconclusive. But, Sir, that is not enough. An argument which does not convince yourself,
may convince the Judge to whom you urge it: and if it does convince him, why, then, Sir, you
are wrong, and he is right. It is his business to judge; and you are not to be confident in
your own opinion that a cause is bad, but to say all you can for your client, and then hear
the Judge's opinion.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, does not affecting a warmth when you have no warmth,
and appearing to be clearly of one opinion when you are in reality of another opinion, does
not such dissimulation impair one's honesty? Is there not some danger that a lawyer may put
on the same mask in common life, in the intercourse with his friends?' JOHNSON. 'Why no, Sir.
Everybody knows you are paid for affecting warmth for your client; and it is, therefore, properly
no dissimulation: the moment you come from the bar you resume your usual behaviour. But I cannot
help being of opinion, that the neat watches of Fielding are as well constructed as the large
clocks of Richardson, and that his dial-plates are brighter. Fielding's characters, though
they do not expand themselves so widely in dissertation, are as just pictures of human nature,
and I will venture to say, have more striking features, and nicer touches of the pencil; and
though Johnson used to quote with approbation a saying of Richardson's, 'that the virtues of
Fielding's heroes were the vices of a truly good man,' I will venture to add, that the moral
tendency of Fielding's writings, though it does not encourage a strained and rarely possible
virtue, is ever favourable to honour and honesty, and cherishes the benevolent and generous
affections. He who is as good as Fielding would make him, is an amiable member of society,
and may be led on by more regulated instructors, to a higher state of ethical perfection.

Johnson proceeded: 'Even Sir Francis Wronghead is a character of manners, though drawn with
great humour.' He then repeated, very happily, all Sir Francis's credulous account to Manly
of his being with 'the great man,' and securing a place[140]. I asked him, if The Suspicious
Husband[141] did not furnish a well-drawn character, that of Ranger. JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; Ranger
is just a rake, a mere rake[142], and a lively young fellow, but no character'.

The great Douglas Cause[143] was at this time a very general subject of discussion. I found
he had not studied it with much attention, but had only heard parts of it occasionally. He,
however, talked of it, and said, 'I am of opinion that positive proof of fraud should not be
required of the plaintiff, but that the Judges should decide according as probability shall
appear to preponderate, granting to the defendant the presumption of filiation to be strong
in his favour. And I think too, that a good deal of weight should be allowed to the dying declarations,
because they were spontaneous. There is a great difference between what is said without our
being urged to it, and what is said from a kind of compulsion. If I praise a man's book without
being asked my opinion of it, that is honest praise, to which one may trust. But if an authour
asks me if I like his book, and I give him something like praise, it must not be taken as my
real opinion.'

'I have not been troubled for a long time with authours desiring my opinion of their works[144].
He said, 'Macaulay[145], who writes the account of St. Kilda, set out with a prejudice against
prejudices, and wanted to be a smart modern thinker; and yet he affirms for a truth, that when
a ship arrives there, all the inhabitants are seized with a cold[146].'

Dr. John Campbell[147], the celebrated writer, took a great deal of pains to ascertain this
fact, and attempted to account for it on physical principles, from the effect of effluvia from
human bodies. Johnson, at another time[148], praised Macaulay for his 'magnanimity' in asserting
this wonderful story, because it was well attested. A Lady of Norfolk, by a letter to my friend
Dr. Burney, has favoured me with the following solution: 'Now for the explication of this seeming
mystery, which is so very obvious as, for that reason, to have escaped the penetration of Dr.
Johnson and his friend, as well as that of the authour. Reading the book with my ingenious
friend, the late Reverend Mr. Christian, of Docking-- after ruminating a little, "The cause,
(says he,) is a natural one. The situation of St. Kilda renders a North-East Wind indispensably
necessary before a stranger can land[149]. The wind, not the stranger, occasions an epidemic
cold." If I am not mistaken, Mr. Macaulay is dead; if living, this solution might please him,
as I hope it will Mr. Boswell, in return for the many agreeable hours his works have afforded us.'

Johnson expatiated on the advantages of Oxford for learning[150]. He is an echo of Voltaire.'
BOSWELL.

I told him that I had several times, when in Italy, seen the experiment of placing a scorpion
within a circle of burning coals; that it ran round and round in extreme pain; and finding
no way to escape, retired to the centre, and like a true Stoick philosopher, darted its sting
into its head, and thus at once freed itself from its woes. 'This must end 'em[158].' I said,
this was a curious fact, as it shewed deliberate suicide in a reptile. Johnson would not admit
the fact. He said, Maupertuis[159] was of opinion that it does not kill itself, but dies of
the heat; that it gets to the centre of the circle, as the coolest place; that its turning
its tail in upon its head is merely a convulsion, and that it does not sting itself. He said
he would be satisfied if the great anatomist Morgagni, after dissecting a scorpion on which
the experiment had been tried, should certify that its sting had penetrated into its head.

He seemed pleased to talk of natural philosophy. 'That woodcocks, (said he,) fly over to the
northern countries is proved, because they have been observed at sea. Swallows certainly sleep
all the winter. A number of them conglobulate together[160], by flying round and round, and
then all in a heap throw themselves under water, and lye in the bed of a river[161].' He told
us, one of his first essays was a Latin poem upon the glow-worm. I am sorry I did not ask where
it was to be found.

Talking of the Russians and the Chinese, he advised me to read Bell's travels[162]. I asked
him whether I should read Du Halde's account of China[163]. 'Why yes, (said he) as one reads
such a book; that is to say, consult it.'

He talked of the heinousness of the crime of adultery, by which the peace of families was destroyed.
He said, 'Confusion of progeny constitutes the essence of the crime; and therefore a woman
who breaks her marriage vows is much more criminal than a man who does it.[164] A man, to be
sure, is criminal in the sight of God: but he does not do his wife a very material injury,
if he does not insult her; if, for instance, from mere wantonness of appetite, he steals privately
to her chambermaid. Sir, a wife ought not greatly to resent this. I would not receive home
a daughter who had run away from her husband on that account. A wife should study to reclaim
her husband by more attention to please him. Sir, a man will not, once in a hundred instances,
leave his wife and go to a harlot, if his wife has not been negligent of pleasing.'

Here he discovered that acute discrimination, that solid judgement, and that knowledge of human
nature, for which he was upon all occasions remarkable. Taking care to keep in view then moral
and religious duty, as understood in our nation, he shewed clearly from reason and good sense,
the greater degree of culpability in the one sex deviating from it than the other; and, at
the same time, inculcated a very useful lesson as to the way to keep him.

'London, 26th April, 1768[173].

'MY DEAR SIR,

'I have received your last letter, which, though very short, and by no means complimentary,
yet gave me real pleasure, because it contains these words, "I shall be glad, very glad to
see you." Surely you have no reason to complain of my publishing a single paragraph of one
of your letters; the temptation to it was so strong. An irrevocable grant of your friendship,
and your dignifying my desire of visiting Corsica with the epithet of "a wise and noble curiosity,"
are to me more valuable than many of the grants of kings.

'But how can you bid me "empty my head of Corsica[174]?" My noble-minded friend, do you not
feel for an oppressed nation bravely struggling to be free? Consider fairly what is the case.
The Corsicans never received any kindness from the Genoese[175]. They never agreed to be subject
to them. They owe them nothing; and when reduced to an abject state of slavery, by force, shall
they not rise in the great cause of liberty, and break the galling yoke? And shall not every
liberal soul be warm for them? Empty my head of Corsica! Empty it of honour, empty it of humanity,
empty it of friendship, empty it of piety. No! while I live, Corsica and the cause of the brave
islanders shall ever employ much of my attention, shall ever interest me in the sincerest manner.

About this time Dr. Kenrick[182] attacked him, through my sides, in a pamphlet, entitled An
Epistle to James Boswell, Esq., occasioned by his having transmitted the moral Writings of
Dr. Samuel Johnson to Pascal Paoli, General of the Corsicans[183]. I was at first inclined
to answer this pamphlet; but Johnson, who knew that my doing so would only gratify Kenrick,
by keeping alive what would soon die away of itself, would not suffer me to take any notice
of it[184].

He allowed high praise to Thomson as a poet[188]; but when one of the company said he was also
a very good man, our moralist contested this with great warmth, accusing him of gross sensuality
and licentiousness of manners. I was very much afraid that in writing Thomson's Life, Dr. Johnson
would have treated his private character with a stern severity, but I was agreeably disappointed;
and I may claim a little merit in it, from my having been at pains to send him authentick accounts
of the affectionate and generous conduct of that poet to his sisters, one of whom, the wife
of Mr. Thomson, schoolmaster at Lanark, I knew, and was presented by her with three of his
letters, one of which Dr. Johnson has inserted in his Life[189]. His Meditations[201] too strongly
prove that he suffered much both in body and mind; yet was he perpetually striving against
evil, and nobly endeavouring to advance his intellectual and devotional improvement. Every
generous and grateful heart must feel for the distresses of so eminent a benefactor to mankind;
and now that his unhappiness is certainly known, must respect that dignity of character which
prevented him from complaining.

His Majesty having the preceding year instituted the Royal Academy of Arts in London, Johnson
had now the honour of being appointed Professor in Ancient Literature[202]. In the course of
the year he wrote some letters to Mrs. Thrale, passed some part of the summer at Oxford and
at Lichfield, and when at Oxford wrote the following letter:

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'Many years ago, when I used to read in the library of your College, I promised to recompence
the College for that permission, by adding to their books a Baskerville's Virgil. I have now
sent it, and desire you to reposit it on the shelves in my name[203].

'If you will be pleased to let me know when you have an hour of leisure, I will drink tea with
you. I am engaged for the afternoon, to-morrow and on Friday: all my mornings are my own[204].

'I am, &c.,

'SAM. I was very sorry that I had not his company with me at the Jubilee, in honour of Shakspeare,
at Stratford-upon-Avon, the great poet's native town[205]. Johnson's connection both with Shakspeare
and Garrick founded a double claim to his presence; and it would have been highly gratifying
to Mr. Garrick. Upon this occasion I particularly lamented that he had not that warmth of friendship
for his brilliant pupil, which we may suppose would have had a benignant effect on both[206].
When almost every man of eminence in the literary world was happy to partake in this festival
of genius, the absence of Johnson could not but be wondered at and regretted. The only trace
of him there, was in the whimsical advertisement of a haberdasher, who sold Shakspearian ribbands
of various dyes; and, by way of illustrating their appropriation to the bard, introduced a
line from the celebrated Prologue[207] at the opening of Drury-lane theatre:

'Each change of many-colour'd life he drew.'

From Brighthelmstone Dr. Johnson wrote me the following letter, which they who may think that
I ought to have suppressed, must have less ardent feelings than I have always avowed[208].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Why do you charge me with unkindness? I have omitted nothing that could do you good, or give
you pleasure, unless it be that I have forborne to tell you my opinion of your Account of Corsica.
I believe my opinion, if you think well of my judgement, might have given you pleasure; but
when it is considered how much vanity is excited by praise, I am not sure that it would have
done you good. Your History is like other histories, but your Journal is in a very high degree
curious and delightful. There is between the History and the Journal that difference which
there will always be found between notions borrowed from without, and notions generated within.
Your History was copied from books; your Journal rose out of your own experience and observation.
You express images which operated strongly upon yourself, and you have impressed them with
great force upon your readers. I know not whether I could name any narrative by which curiosity
is better excited, or better gratified.

'I am glad that you are going to be married; and as I wish you well in things of less importance,
wish you well with proportionate ardour in this crisis of your life. What I can contribute
to your happiness, I should be very unwilling to with-hold; for I have always loved and valued
you, and shall love you and value you still more, as you become more regular and useful: effects
which a happy marriage will hardly fail to produce.

'I do not find that I am likely to come back very soon from this place. I shall, perhaps, stay
a fortnight longer; and a fortnight is a long time to a lover absent from his mistress. Would
a fortnight ever have an end?

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most affectionate humble servant, 'SAM.

I told him that David Hume had made a short collection of Scotticisms[212]. 'I wonder, (said
Johnson,) that he should find them.'

He would not admit the importance of the question concerning the legality of general warrants[213].
'Such a power' (he observed,) 'must be vested in every government, to answer particular cases
of necessity; and there can be no just complaint but when it is abused, for which those who
administer government must be answerable. It is a matter of such indifference, a matter about
which the people care so very little, that were a man to be sent over Britain to offer them
an exemption from it at a halfpenny a piece, very few would purchase it.' This was a specimen
of that laxity of talking, which I have heard him fairly acknowledge[214]; for, surely, while
the power of granting general warrants was supposed to be legal, and the apprehension of them
hung over our heads, we did not possess that security of freedom, congenial to our happy constitution,
and which, by the intrepid exertions of Mr. Wilkes, has been happily established.

He said, 'The duration of Parliament, whether for seven years or the life of the King, appears
to me so immaterial, that I would not give half a crown to turn the scale one way or the other[215].
Motives are generally unknown. 'Sir (said he,) what is all this rout about the Corsicans? They
have been at war with the Genoese for upwards of twenty years, and have never yet taken their
fortified towns. They might have battered down their walls, and reduced them to powder in twenty
years. They might have pulled the walls in pieces, and cracked the stones with their teeth
in twenty years.' It was in vain to argue with him upon the want of artillery: he was not to
be resisted for the moment. L'auteur l'appelle linguam Corsicae rusticam; elle a peut-etre
passe peu a peu; mais elle a certainement prevalue autrefois dans les montagnes et dans la
campagne. Le meme auteur dit la meme chose en parlant de Sardaigne; qu'il y a deux langues
dans l'Isle, une des villes, l'autre de la campagne.'

The General immediately informed him that the lingua rustica was only in Sardinia. He repeated
to us, in his forcible melodious manner, the concluding lines of the Dunciad[247]. Johnson
said, his Pastorals were poor things, though the versification was fine[251]. He repeated some
fine lines on love, by the former, (which I have now forgotten[254],) and gave great applause
to the character of Zimri[255]. Some one mentioned the description of Dover Cliff[262]. He
who has provoked the lash of wit, cannot complain that he smarts from it. I do not mean that
he has taught us any thing; but he has told us old things in a new way.' MURPHY. 'He seems
to have read a great deal of French criticism, and wants to make it his own; as if he had been
for years anatomising the heart of man, and peeping into every cranny of it.' GOLDSMITH. 'It
is easier to write that book, than to read it[269].' JOHNSON. 'We have an example of true criticism
in Burke's Essay on the Sublime and Beautiful; and, if I recollect, there is also Du Bos[270];
and Bouhours[271], who shews all beauty to depend on truth. There is no great merit in telling
how many plays have ghosts in them, and how this Ghost is better than that. You must shew how
terrour is impressed on the human heart. In the description of night in Macbeth[272], the beetle
and the bat detract from the general idea of darkness,--inspissated gloom.'

Politicks being mentioned, he said, 'This petitioning is a new mode of distressing government,
and a mighty easy one. I will undertake to get petitions either against quarter-guineas or
half-guineas, with the help of a little hot wine. There must be no yielding to encourage this.
The object is not important enough. We are not to blow up half a dozen palaces, because one
cottage is burning[273].'

The conversation then took another turn. JOHNSON. 'It is amazing what ignorance of certain
points one sometimes finds in men of eminence. A wit about town, who wrote Latin bawdy verses,
asked me, how it happened that England and Scotland, which were once two kingdoms, were now
one:--and Sir Fletcher Norton[274] did not seem to know that there were such publications as
the Reviews.'

'The ballad of Hardyknute[275] has no great merit, if it be really ancient. People talk of
nature. He not only had great knowledge of the Latin language, but was a great poetical genius.
Both the Scaligers praise him.'

He again talked of the passage in Congreve with high commendation, and said, 'Shakspeare never
has six lines together without a fault. Perhaps you may find seven, but this does not refute
my general assertion. It is not so. Commodities come from commodities; but trade produces no
capital accession of wealth. However, though there should be little profit in money, there
is a considerable profit in pleasure, as it gives to one nation the productions of another;
as we have wines and fruits, and many other foreign articles, brought to us.' BOSWELL. 'Yes,
Sir, and there is a profit in pleasure, by its furnishing occupation to such numbers of mankind.'
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you cannot call that pleasure to which all are averse, and which none begin
but with the hope of leaving off; a thing which men dislike before they have tried it, and
when they have tried it.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, the mind must be employed, and we grow weary
when idle.' JOHNSON. 'That is, Sir, because, others being busy, we want company; but if we
were all idle, there would be no growing weary; we should all entertain one another. There
is, indeed, this in trade:--it gives men an opportunity of improving their situation. If there
were no trade, many who are poor would always remain poor. But no man loves labour for itself.'
BOSWELL. 'Yes, Sir, I know a person who does. He is a very laborious Judge, and he loves the
labour[295].' JOHNSON. 'Sir, that is because he loves respect and distinction. Could he have
them without labour, he would like it less.' BOSWELL. 'Why, something about that.' BOSWELL.
'Do you think, Sir, that what is called natural affection is born with us? It seems to me to
be the effect of habit, or of gratitude for kindness. No child has it for a parent whom it
has not seen.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, I think there is an instinctive natural affection in parents
towards their children.'

Russia being mentioned as likely to become a great empire, by the rapid increase of population:--JOHNSON.
'Why, Sir, I see no prospect of their propagating more. They can have no more children than
they can get. I know of no way to make them breed more than they do. It is not from reason
and prudence that people marry, but from inclination. A man is poor; he thinks, "I cannot be
worse, and so I'll e'en take Peggy."' BOSWELL. 'But have not nations been more populous at
one period than another?' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir; but that has been owing to the people being less
thinned at one period than another, whether by emigrations, war, or pestilence, not by their
being more or less prolifick. Births at all times bear the same proportion to the same number
of people.' BOSWELL. 'But, to consider the state of our own country;--does not throwing a number
of farms into one hand hurt population?' JOHNSON. 'Why no, Sir; the same quantity of food being
produced, will be consumed by the same number of mouths, though the people may be disposed
of in different ways. We see, if corn be dear, and butchers' meat cheap, the farmers all apply
themselves to the raising of corn, till it becomes plentiful and cheap, and then butchers'
meat becomes dear; so that an equality is always preserved. No, Sir, let fanciful men do as
they will, depend upon it, it is difficult to disturb the system of life.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir,
is it not a very bad thing for landlords to oppress their tenants, by raising their rents?'
JOHNSON. 'Very bad. But, Sir, it never can have any general influence; it may distress some
individuals. For, consider this: landlords cannot do without tenants. Now tenants will not
give more for land, than land is worth. If they can make more of their money by keeping a shop,
or any other way, they'll do it, and so oblige landlords to let land come back to a reasonable
rent, in order that they may get tenants. Land, in England, is an article of commerce. A tenant
who pays his landlord his rent, thinks himself no more obliged to him than you think yourself
obliged to a man in whose shop you buy a piece of goods. He knows the landlord does not let
him have his land for less than he can get from others, in the same manner as the shopkeeper
sells his goods. No shopkeeper sells a yard of ribband for sixpence when seven-pence is the
current price.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, is it not better that tenants should be dependant on landlords?'
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, as there are many more tenants than landlords, perhaps, strictly speaking,
we should wish not. But if you please you may let your lands cheap, and so get the value, part
in money and part in homage. I should agree with you in that.' BOSWELL. 'So, Sir, you laugh
at schemes of political improvement.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, most schemes of political improvement
are very laughable things.'

He observed, 'Providence has wisely ordered that the more numerous men are, the more difficult
it is for them to agree in any thing, and so they are governed. There is no doubt, that if
the poor should reason, "We'll be the poor no longer, we'll make the rich take their turn,"
they could easily do it, were it not that they can't agree. So the common soldiers, though
so much more numerous than their officers, are governed by them for the same reason.'

He said, 'Mankind have a strong attachment to the habitations to which they have been accustomed.
You see the inhabitants of Norway do not with one consent quit it, and go to some part of America,
where there is a mild climate, and where they may have the same produce from land, with the
tenth part of the labour. No, Sir; their affection for their old dwellings, and the terrour
of a general change, keep them at home. Thus, we see many of the finest spots in the world
thinly inhabited, and many rugged spots well inhabited.'

The London Chronicle[301], which was the only news-paper he constantly took in, being brought,
the office of reading it aloud was assigned to me. I was diverted by his impatience. He made
me pass over so many parts of it, that my task was very easy. He would not suffer one of the
petitions to the King about the Middlesex election to be read[302]. 'But, Sir, their doctrine
is the same with that of the Church of England. Their confession of faith, and the thirty-nine
articles, contain the same points, even the doctrine of predestination.' JOHNSON. 'Why yes,
Sir, predestination was a part of the clamour of the times, so it is mentioned in our articles,
but with as little positiveness as could be.' BOSWELL. 'Is it necessary, Sir, to believe all
the thirty-nine articles?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, that is a question which has been much agitated.
Some have thought it necessary that they should all be believed; others have considered them
to be only articles of peace, that is to say, you are not to preach against them[305].' BOSWELL.
'It appears to me, Sir, that predestination, or what is equivalent to it, cannot be avoided,
if we hold an universal prescience in the Deity.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, does not GOD every day
see things going on without preventing them?' BOSWELL. 'True, Sir; but if a thing be certainly
foreseen, it must be fixed, and cannot happen otherwise; and if we apply this consideration
to the human mind, there is no free will, nor do I see how prayer can be of any avail.' He
mentioned Dr. Clarke, and Bishop Bramhall on Liberty and Necessity, and bid me read South's
Sermons on Prayer; but avoided the question which has excruciated philosophers and divines,
beyond any other. I did not press it further, when I perceived that he was displeased[306],
and shrunk from any abridgement of an attribute usually ascribed to the Divinity, however irreconcilable
in its full extent with the grand system of moral government. His supposed orthodoxy here cramped
the vigorous powers of his understanding. He was confined by a chain which early imagination
and long habit made him think massy and strong, but which, had he ventured to try, he could
at once have snapt asunder. What he said is here accurately recorded. But it is not improbable
that if one had taken the other side, he might have reasoned differently.

I must however mention, that he had a respect for 'the old religion,' as the mild Melancthon[310]
called that of the Roman Catholick Church, even while he was exerting himself for its reformation
in some particulars. Sir William Scott informs me, that he heard Johnson say, 'A man who is
converted from Protestantism to Popery may be sincere: he parts with nothing: he is only superadding
to what he already had. But a convert from Popery to Protestantism gives up so much of what
he has held as sacred as any thing that he retains; there is so much laceration of mind[311]
in such a conversion, that it can hardly be sincere and lasting[312].' The truth of this reflection
may be confirmed by many and eminent instances, some of which will occur to most of my readers.

He said, the criticks had done too much honour to Sir Richard Blackmore, by writing so much
against him[319]. That in his Creation he had been helped by various wits, a line by Phillips
and a line by Tickell; so that by their aid, and that of others, the poem had been made out[320].

I defended Blackmore's supposed lines, which have been ridiculed as absolute nonsense:--

'A painted vest Prince Voltiger had on, Which from a naked Pict his grandsire won[321].'

I maintained it to be a poetical conceit. A Pict being painted, if he is slain in battle, and
a vest is made of his skin, it is a painted vest won from him, though he was naked[322].

Being to set out for Scotland on the 10th of November, I wrote to him at Streatham, begging
that he would meet me in town on the 9th; but if this should be very inconvenient to him, I
would go thither. His answer was as follows:--

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Upon balancing the inconveniences of both parties, I find it will less incommode you to spend
your night here, than me to come to town. I wish to see you, and am ordered by the lady of
this house to invite you hither. Whether you can come or not, I shall not have any occasion
of writing to you again before your marriage, and therefore tell you now, that with great sincerity
I wish you happiness.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. It is calculated only for the
best kind of marriages; whereas, we should have a form for matches of convenience, of which
there are many.' He agreed with me that there was no absolute necessity for having the marriage
ceremony performed by a regular clergyman, for this was not commanded in scripture.

I was volatile enough to repeat to him a little epigrammatick song of mine, on matrimony, which
Mr. Garrick had a few days before procured to be set to musick by the very ingenious Mr. Dibden.

'A MATRIMONIAL THOUGHT.

'In the blithe days of honey-moon, With Kate's allurements smitten, I lov'd her late, I lov'd
her soon, And call'd her dearest kitten. But now my kitten's grown a cat, And cross like other
wives, O! by my soul, my honest Mat, I fear she has nine lives.'

My illustrious friend said, 'It is very well, Sir; but you should not swear.' Upon which I
altered 'O! by my soul,' to 'alas, alas!'

He was so good as to accompany me to London, and see me into the post-chaise which was to carry
me on my road to Scotland. And sure I am, that, however inconsiderable many of the particulars
recorded at this time may appear to some, they will be esteemed by the best part of my readers
as genuine traits of his character, contributing together to give a full, fair, and distinct
view of it.

1770: AETAT. 61.--In 1770 he published a political pamphlet, entitled The False Alarm[325],
intended to justify the conduct of ministry and their majority in the House of Commons, for
having virtually assumed it as an axiom, that the expulsion of a Member of Parliament was equivalent
to exclusion, and thus having declared Colonel Lutterel to be duly elected for the county of
Middlesex, notwithstanding Mr. Wilkes had a great majority of votes[326]. This being justly
considered as a gross violation of the right of election, an alarm for the constitution extended
itself all over the kingdom. To prove this alarm to be false, was the purpose of Johnson's
pamphlet; but even his vast powers were inadequate to cope with constitutional truth and reason,
and his argument failed of effect; and the House of Commons have since expunged the offensive
resolution from their Journals[327]. That the House of Commons might have expelled Mr. Wilkes
repeatedly, and as often as he should be re-chosen, was not denied; but incapacitation cannot
be but by an act of the whole legislature. It was wonderful to see how a prejudice in favour
of government in general, and an aversion to popular clamour, could blind and contract such
an understanding as Johnson's, in this particular case; yet the wit, the sarcasm, the eloquent
vivacity which this pamphlet displayed, made it be read with great avidity at the time, and
it will ever be read with pleasure, for the sake of its composition. That it endeavoured to
infuse a narcotick indifference, as to publick concerns, into the minds of the people, and
that it broke out sometimes into an extreme coarseness of contemptuous abuse, is but too evident.

It must not, however, be omitted, that when the storm of his violence subsides, he takes a
fair opportunity to pay a grateful compliment to the King, who had rewarded his merit: 'These
low-born rulers[328] have endeavoured, surely without effect, to alienate the affections of
the people from the only King who for almost a century has much appeared to desire, or much
endeavoured to deserve them.' And, 'Every honest man must lament, that the faction has been
regarded with frigid neutrality by the Tories, who being long accustomed to signalise their
principles by opposition to the Court, do not yet consider, that they have at last a King who
knows not the name of party, and who wishes to be the common father of all his people.'

To this pamphlet, which was at once discovered to be Johnson's, several answers came out, in
which, care was taken to remind the publick of his former attacks upon government, and of his
now being a pensioner, without allowing for the honourable terms upon which Johnson's pension
was granted and accepted, or the change of system which the British court had undergone upon
the accession of his present Majesty[329]. He was, however, soothed[330] in the highest strain
of panegyrick, in a poem called The Remonstrance, by the Rev. Mr. Stockdale[331], to whom he
was, upon many occasions, a kind protector.

The following admirable minute made by him describes so well his own state, and that of numbers
to whom self-examination is habitual, that I cannot omit it:--

'June 1, 1770. Every man naturally persuades himself that he can keep his resolutions, nor
is he convinced of his imbecility but by length of time and frequency of experiment[332]. This
opinion of our own constancy is so prevalent, that we always despise him who suffers his general
and settled purpose to be overpowered by an occasional desire. They, therefore, whom frequent
failures have made desperate, cease to form resolutions; and they who are become cunning, do
not tell them. Those who do not make them are very few, but of their effect little is perceived;
for scarcely any man persists in a course of life planned by choice, but as he is restrained
from deviation by some external power. He who may live as he will, seldom lives long in the
observation of his own rules[333].'

Of this year I have obtained the following letters:--

'To THE REVEREND DR. FARMER[334], CAMBRIDGE.

'SIR,

'As no man ought to keep wholly to himself any possession that may be useful to the publick,
I hope you will not think me unreasonably intrusive, if I have recourse to you for such information
as you are more able to give me than any other man.

'In support of an opinion which you have already placed above the need of any more support,
Mr. Steevens, a very ingenious gentleman, lately of King's College, has collected an account
of all the translations which Shakspeare might have seen and used. He wishes his catalogue
to be perfect, and therefore intreats that you will favour him by the insertion of such additions
as the accuracy of your inquiries has enabled you to make. To this request, I take the liberty
of adding my own solicitation.

'We have no immediate use for this catalogue, and therefore do not desire that it should interrupt
or hinder your more important employments. But it will be kind to let us know that you receive it.

'I am, Sir, &c. 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Johnson's-court, Fleet-street, March 21, 1770.'

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'The readiness with which you were pleased to promise me some notes on Shakspeare, was a new
instance of your friendship. I shall not hurry you; but am desired by Mr. Steevens, who helps
me in this edition, to let you know, that we shall print the tragedies first, and shall therefore
want first the notes which belong to them. We think not to incommode the readers with a supplement;
and therefore, what we cannot put into its proper place, will do us no good. We shall not begin
to print before the end of six weeks, perhaps not so soon.

'I am, &c. 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, June 23, 1770.'

'To THE REV. DR. JOSEPH WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am revising my edition of Shakspeare, and remember that I formerly misrepresented your opinion
of Lear. Be pleased to write the paragraph as you would have it, and send it[335]. If you have
any remarks of your own upon that or any other play, I shall gladly receive them.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Warton. I sometimes think of wandering for a few days to Winchester,
but am apt to delay. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Sept. 27, 1770.'

'To MR. FRANCIS BARBER, AT MRS. CLAPP'S, BISHOP-STORTFORD, HERTFORDSHIRE.

'DEAR FRANCIS,

'I am at last sat down to write to you, and should very much blame myself for having neglected
you so long, if I did not impute that and many other failings to want of health[336]. I hope
not to be so long silent again. I am very well satisfied with your progress, if you can really
perform the exercises which you are set; and I hope Mr. Ellis does not suffer you to impose
on him, or on yourself.

'Make my compliments to Mr. Ellis, and to Mrs. Clapp, and Mr. Smith.

'Let me know what English books you read for your entertainment. You can never be wise unless
you love reading.

'Do not imagine that I shall forget or forsake you; for if, when I examine you, I find that
you have not lost your time, you shall want no encouragement from

'Yours affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Sept. 25, 1770.'

'TO THE SAME.

'DEAR FRANCIS,

'I hope you mind your business. I design you shall stay with Mrs. Clapp these holidays. If
you are invited out you may go, if Mr. Ellis gives leave. I have ordered you some clothes,
which you will receive, I believe, next week. My compliments to Mrs. Clapp and to Mr. Ellis,
and Mr. Smith, &c.

'I am

'Your affectionate,

'SAM.

'My acquaintance with that great and venerable character commenced in the year 1754. I was
introduced to him by Mr. Grierson[337], his Majesty's printer at Dublin, a gentleman of uncommon
learning, and great wit and vivacity. Mr. Grierson died in Germany, at the age of twenty-seven.
Dr. Johnson highly respected his abilities, and often observed, that he possessed more extensive
knowledge than any man of his years he had ever known. His industry was equal to his talents;
and he particularly excelled in every species of philological learning, and was, perhaps, the
best critick of the age he lived in.

'I must always remember with gratitude my obligation to Mr. Grierson, for the honour and happiness
of Dr. Johnson's acquaintance and friendship, which continued uninterrupted and undiminished
to his death: a connection, that was at once the pride and happiness of my life.

'What pity it is, that so much wit and good sense as he continually exhibited in conversation,
should perish unrecorded! Few persons quitted his company without perceiving themselves wiser
and better than they were before. On serious subjects he flashed the most interesting conviction
upon his auditors; and upon lighter topicks, you might have supposed--Albano musas de monte
locutas[338].

'Though I can hope to add but little to the celebrity of so exalted a character, by any communications
I can furnish, yet out of pure respect to his memory, I will venture to transmit to you some
anecdotes concerning him, which fell under my own observation. The very minutiae. of such a
character must be interesting, and may be compared to the filings of diamonds.

'In politicks he was deemed a Tory, but certainly was not so in the obnoxious or party sense
of the term; for while he asserted the legal and salutary prerogatives of the crown, he no
less respected the constitutional liberties of the people. Whiggism, at the time of the Revolution,
he said, was accompanied with certain principles; but latterly, as a mere party distinction
under Walpole[339] and the Pelhams was no better than the politicks of stock-jobbers, and the
religion of infidels.

'He detested the idea of governing by parliamentary corruption, and asserted most strenuously,
that a prince steadily and conspicuously pursuing the interests of his people, could not fail
of parliamentary concurrence. A prince of ability, he contended, might and should be the directing
soul and spirit of his own administration; in short, his own minister, and not the mere head
of a party: and then, and not till then, would the royal dignity be sincerely respected.

'Johnson seemed to think, that a certain degree of crown influence over the Houses of Parliament,
(not meaning a corrupt and shameful dependence,) was very salutary, nay, even necessary, in
our mixed government[340]. "For, (said he,) if the members were under no crown influence, and
disqualified from receiving any gratification from Court, and resembled, as they possibly might,
Pym and Haslerig, and other stubborn and sturdy members of the long Parliament, the wheels
of government would be totally obstructed. Such men would oppose, merely to shew their power,
from envy, jealousy, and perversity of disposition; and not gaining themselves, would hate
and oppose all who did: not loving the person of the prince, and conceiving they owed him little
gratitude, from the mere spirit of insolence and contradiction, they would oppose and thwart
him upon all occasions."

'The inseparable imperfection annexed to all human governments consisted, he said, in not being
able to create a sufficient fund of virtue and principle to carry the laws into due and effectual
execution. Wisdom might plan, but virtue alone could execute. And where could sufficient virtue
be found? A variety of delegated, and often discretionary, powers must be entrusted somewhere;
which, if not governed by integrity and conscience, would necessarily be abused, till at last
the constable would sell his for a shilling.

'This excellent person was sometimes charged with abetting slavish and arbitrary principles
of government. Nothing in my opinion could be a grosser calumny and misrepresentation; for
how can it be rationally supposed, that he should adopt such pernicious and absurd opinions,
who supported his philosophical character with so much dignity, was extremely jealous of his
personal liberty and independence, and could not brook the smallest appearance of neglect or
insult, even from the highest personages?

'But let us view him in some instances of more familiar life. I never could discover how he
found time for his compositions[344].

'Upon a visit to me at a country lodging near Twickenham, he asked what sort of society I had
there. I told him, but indifferent; as they chiefly consisted of opulent traders, retired from
business. He said, he never much liked that class of people; "For, Sir (said he,) they have
lost the civility of tradesmen, without acquiring the manners of gentlemen[348]."

'Speaking of Mr. Harte[350], Canon of Windsor, and writer of The History of Gustavus Adolphus,
he much commended him as a scholar, and a man of the most companionable talents he had ever
known. He said, the defects in his history proceeded not from imbecility, but from foppery.

'He loved, he said, the old black letter books; they were rich in matter, though their style
was inelegant; wonderfully so, considering how conversant the writers were with the best models
of antiquity.

'He frequently exhorted me to set about writing a History of Ireland, and archly remarked,
there had been some good Irish writers, and that one Irishman might at least aspire to be equal
to another. He had great compassion for the miseries and distresses of the Irish nation, particularly
the Papists; and severely reprobated the barbarous debilitating policy of the British government,
which, he said, was the most detestable mode of persecution. To a gentleman, who hinted such
policy might be necessary to support the authority of the English government, he replied by
saying, "Let the authority of the English government perish, rather than be maintained by iniquity.
Better would it be to restrain the turbulence of the natives by the authority of the sword,
and to make them amenable to law and justice by an effectual and vigorous police, than to grind
them to powder by all manner of disabilities and incapacities. Better (said he,) to hang or
drown people at once, than by an unrelenting persecution to beggar and starve them.[351]" The
moderation and humanity of the present times have, in some measure, justified the wisdom of
his observations.

'Dr. Johnson was often accused of prejudices, nay, antipathy, with regard to the natives of
Scotland. Surely, so illiberal a prejudice never entered his mind: and it is well known, many
natives of that respectable country possessed a large share in his esteem; nor were any of
them ever excluded from his good offices, as far as opportunity permitted. True it is, he considered
the Scotch, nationally, as a crafty, designing people, eagerly attentive to their own interest,
and too apt to overlook the claims and pretentions of other people. "While they confine their
benevolence, in a manner, exclusively to those of their own country, they expect to share in
the good offices of other people. Now (said Johnson,) this principle is either right or wrong;
if right, we should do well to imitate such conduct; if wrong, we cannot too much detest it."[352]

'Being solicited to compose a funeral sermon for the daughter of a tradesman, he naturally
enquired into the character of the deceased; and being told she was remarkable for her humility
and condescension to inferiours, he observed, that those were very laudable qualities, but
it might not be so easy to discover who the lady's inferiours were.

'Of a certain player[353] he remarked, that his conversation usually threatened and announced
more than it performed; that he fed you with a continual renovation of hope, to end in a constant
succession of disappointment.

'His philosophy, though austere and solemn, was by no means morose and cynical, and never blunted
the laudable sensibilities of his character, or exempted him from the influence of the tender
passions. Want of tenderness, he always alledged, was want of parts, and was no less a proof
of stupidity than depravity.

'Speaking of Mr. Hanway, who published An Eight Days' Journey from London to Portsmouth, "Jonas,
(said he,) acquired some reputation by travelling abroad[354], but lost it all by travelling
at home.[355]"

'Of the passion of love he remarked, that its violence and ill effects were much exaggerated;
for who knows any real sufferings on that head, more than from the exorbitancy of any other
passion?

'He much commended Law's Serious Call, which he said was the finest piece of hortatory theology
in any language[356]. "Law, (said he,) fell latterly into the reveries of Jacob Behmen[357],
whom Law alledged to have been somewhat in the same state with St. Paul, and to have seen unutterable
things[358]--he would have resembled St. Paul still more, by not attempting to utter them."

'He was much affected by the death of his mother, and wrote to me to come and assist him to
compose his mind, which indeed I found extremely agitated. He lamented that all serious and
religious conversation was banished from the society of men, and yet great advantages might
be derived from it. All acknowledged, he said, what hardly any body practised, the obligation
we were under of making the concerns of eternity the governing principles of our lives. Every
man, he observed, at last wishes for retreat: he sees his expectations frustrated in the world,
and begins to wean himself from it, and to prepare for everlasting separation.

'He observed, that the influence of London now extended every where, and that from all manner
of communication being opened, there shortly would be no remains of the ancient simplicity,
or places of cheap retreat to be found.

'He was no admirer of blank-verse, and said it always failed, unless sustained by the dignity
of the subject. In blank-verse, he said, the language suffered more distortion, to keep it
out of prose, than any inconvenience or limitation to be apprehended from the shackles and
circumspection of rhyme[361].

'He reproved me once for saying grace without mention of the name of our LORD JESUS CHRIST,
and hoped in future I would be more mindful of the apostolical injunction[362].

'He refused to go out of a room before me at Mr. Langton's house, saying, he hoped he knew
his rank better than to presume to take place of a Doctor in Divinity. I mention such little
anecdotes, merely to shew the peculiar turn and habit of his mind.

'He used frequently to observe, that there was more to be endured than enjoyed, in the general
condition of human life; and frequently quoted those lines of Dryden:

"Strange cozenage! none would live past years again, Yet all hope pleasure from what still
remain[363]."

For his part, he said, he never passed that week in his life which he would wish to repeat,
were an angel to make the proposal to him.

'He was of opinion, that the English nation cultivated both their soil and their reason better
than any other people: but admitted that the French, though not the highest, perhaps, in any
department of literature, yet in every department were very high[364]. Intellectual pre-eminence,
he observed, was the highest superiority; and that every nation derived their highest reputation
from the splendour and dignity of their writers[365]. Voltaire, he said, was a good narrator,
and that his principal merit consisted in a happy selection and arrangement of circumstances.

'Speaking of the French novels, compared with Richardson's, he said, they might be pretty baubles,
but a wren was not an eagle.

'Lord Lyttelton's Dialogues, he deemed a nugatory performance. "That man, (said he,) sat down
to write a book, to tell the world what the world had all his life been telling him[368]."

'Somebody observing that the Scotch Highlanders, in the year 1745, had made surprising efforts,
considering their numerous wants and disadvantages: "Yes, Sir, (said he,) their wants were
numerous; but you have not mentioned the greatest of them all,--the want of law."

'Speaking of the inward light, to which some methodists pretended, he said, it was a principle
utterly incompatible with social or civil security. "If a man (said he,) pretends to a principle
of action of which I can know nothing, nay, not so much as that he has it, but only that he
pretends to it; how can I tell what that person may be prompted to do? When a person professes
to be governed by a written ascertained law, I can then know where to find him."

'The poem of Fingal[369], he said, was a mere unconnected rhapsody, a tiresome repetition of
the same images. "In vain shall we look for the lucidus ordo'[370], where there is neither
end or object, design or moral, nec certa recurrit imago."

'Being asked by a young nobleman, what was become of the gallantry and military spirit of the
old English nobility, he replied, "Why, my Lord, I'll tell you what is become of it; it is
gone into the city to look for a fortune."

'He spoke with much contempt of the notice taken of Woodhouse, the poetical shoemaker[372].
He said, it was all vanity and childishness: and that such objects were, to those who patronised
them, mere mirrours of their own superiority. "They had better (said he,) furnish the man with
good implements for his trade, than raise subscriptions for his poems. He may make an excellent
shoemaker, but can never make a good poet. A school-boy's exercise may be a pretty thing for
a school-boy; but it is no treat for a man."

'Speaking of Boetius, who was the favourite writer of the middle ages[373], he said it was
very surprizing, that upon such a subject, and in such a situation, he should be magis philosophius
quam Christianus.

'Speaking of Arthur Murphy, whom he very much loved, "I don't know (said he,) that Arthur can
be classed with the very first dramatick writers; yet at present I doubt much whether we have
any thing superiour to Arthur[374]."

'Speaking of the national debt, he said, it was an idle dream to suppose that the country could
sink under it. Let the public creditors be ever so clamorous, the interest of millions must
ever prevail over that of thousands[375].

'Of Dr. Kennicott's Collations, he observed, that though the text should not be much mended
thereby, yet it was no small advantage to know, that we had as good a text as the most consummate
industry and diligence could procure[376].

'Johnson observed, that so many objections might be made to every thing, that nothing could
overcome them but the necessity of doing something. No man would be of any profession, as simply
opposed to not being of it: but every one must do something.

'He remarked, that a London parish was a very comfortless thing; for the clergyman seldom knew
the face of one out of ten of his parishioners.

'Of the late Mr. Mallet he spoke with no great respect: said, he was ready for any dirty job:
that he had wrote against Byng at the instigation of the ministry[377], and was equally ready
to write for him, provided he found his account in it. Even ill assorted marriages were preferable
to cheerless celibacy.

'Of old Sheridan he remarked, that he neither wanted parts nor literature; but that his vanity
and Quixotism obscured his merits.

'Speaking of the old Earl of Corke and Orrery, he said, "that man spent his life in catching
at an object, [literary eminence,] which he had not power to grasp[381]."

'To find a substitution for violated morality, he said, was the leading feature in all perversions
of religion.'

'He often used to quote, with great pathos, those fine lines of Virgil:

'Optima quaeque dies miseris mortalibus aevi Prima fugit[382]; subeunt morbi, tristisque senectus,
Et labor, et durae rapit inclementia mortis[383].'

'Speaking of Homer, whom he venerated as the prince of poets, Johnson remarked that the advice
given to Diomed[384] by his father, when he sent him to the Trojan war, was the noblest exhortation
that could be instanced in any heathen writer, and comprised in a single line:

[Greek: Aien aristeuein, kai hupeirochon emmenai allon ]

which, if I recollect well, is translated by Dr. Clarke thus: semper appetere praestantissima,
et omnibus aliis antecellere.

'He observed, "it was a most mortifying reflexion for any man to consider, what he had done,
compared with what he might have done."

'He went with me, one Sunday, to hear my old Master, Gregory Sharpe[385], preach at the Temple.
In the prefatory prayer, Sharpe ranted about Liberty, as a blessing most fervently to be implored,
and its continuance prayed for. Johnson observed, that our liberty was in no sort of danger:--he
would have done much better, to pray against our licentiousness.

'He said, "the poor in England[386] were better provided for, than in any other country of
the same extent: he did not mean little Cantons, or petty Republicks. Where a great proportion
of the people (said he,) are suffered to languish in helpless misery, that country must be
ill policed, and wretchedly governed: a decent provision for the poor, is the true test of
civilization.--Gentlemen of education, he observed, were pretty much the same in all countries;
the condition of the lower orders, the poor especially, was the true mark of national discrimination."

'When the corn laws were in agitation in Ireland, by which that country has been enabled not
only to feed itself, but to export corn to a large amount[387]; Sir Thomas Robinson[388] observed,
that those laws might be prejudicial to the corn-trade of England. "Sir Thomas, (said he,)
you talk the language of a savage: what, Sir? would you prevent any people from feeding themselves,
if by any honest means they can do it[389]."

'It being mentioned, that Garrick assisted Dr. Brown, the authour of the Estimate[390], in
some dramatick composition, "No, Sir, (said Johnson,) he would no more suffer Garrick to write
a line in his play, than he would suffer him to mount his pulpit."

'Speaking of economy, he remarked, it was hardly worth while to save anxiously twenty pounds
a year. If a man could save to that degree, so as to enable him to assume a different rank
in society, then indeed, it might answer some purpose.

'He observed, a principal source of erroneous judgement was, viewing things partially and only
on one side: as for instance, fortune-hunters, when they contemplated the fortunes singly and
separately, it was a dazzling and tempting object; but when they came to possess the wives
and their fortunes together, they began to suspect that they had not made quite so good a bargain.

'Speaking of the late Duke of Northumberland living very magnificently when Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland, somebody remarked it would be difficult to find a suitable successor to him: then
exclaimed Johnson, he is only fit to succeed himself[392].

'He advised me, if possible, to have a good orchard. He knew, he said, a clergyman of small
income, who brought up a family very reputably which he chiefly fed with apple dumplings.

'He said, he had known several good scholars among the Irish gentlemen; but scarcely any of
them correct in quantity. He extended the same observation to Scotland.

'Speaking of a certain Prelate, who exerted himself very laudably in building churches and
parsonage-houses; "however, said he, I do not find that he is esteemed a man of much professional
learning, or a liberal patron of it;--yet, it is well, where a man possesses any strong positive
excellence.--Few have all kinds of merit belonging to their character. We must not examine
matters too deeply--No, Sir, a fallible being will fail somewhere."

'Talking of the Irish clergy, he said, Swift was a man of great parts, and the instrument of
much good to his country[393].--Berkeley was a profound scholar, as well as a man of fine imagination;
but Usher, he said, was the great luminary of the Irish church; and a greater, he added, no
church could boast of; at least in modern times. 62.--In 1771 he published another political
pamphlet, entitled Thoughts on the late Transactions respecting Falkland's Islands[396], in
which, upon materials furnished to him by ministry, and upon general topicks expanded in his
richest style, he successfully endeavoured to persuade the nation that it was wise and laudable
to suffer the question of right to remain undecided, rather than involve our country in another
war. It has been suggested by some, with what truth I shall not take upon me to decide, that
he rated the consequence of those islands to Great-Britain too low[397]. But however this may
be, every humane mind must surely applaud the earnestness with which he averted the calamity
of war; a calamity so dreadful, that it is astonishing how civilised, nay, Christian nations,
can deliberately continue to renew it. His description of its miseries in this pamphlet, is
one of the finest pieces of eloquence in the English language[398]. Upon this occasion, too,
we find Johnson lashing the party in opposition with unbounded severity, and making the fullest
use of what he ever reckoned a most effectual argumentative instrument,--contempt[399]. His
character of their very able mysterious champion, JUNIUS, is executed with all the force of
his genius, and finished with the highest care. He seems to have exulted in sallying forth
to single combat against the boasted and formidable hero, who bade defiance to 'principalities
and powers, and the rulers of this world.'[400]

This pamphlet, it is observable, was softened in one particular, after the first edition[401];
for the conclusion of Mr. George Grenville's character stood thus: 'Let him not, however, be
depreciated in his grave. He had powers not universally possessed: could he have enforced payment
of the Manilla ransom, he could have counted it[402].' Which, instead of retaining its sly
sharp point, was reduced to a mere flat unmeaning expression, or, if I may use the word,--truism:
'He had powers not universally possessed: and if he sometimes erred, he was likewise sometimes
right.'

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'After much lingering of my own, and much of the ministry, I have at length got out my paper[403].
But delay is not yet at an end: Not many had been dispersed, before Lord North ordered the
sale to stop. His reasons I do not distinctly know. You may try to find them in the perusal[404].
Before his order, a sufficient number were dispersed to do all the mischief, though, perhaps,
not to make all the sport that might be expected from it.

'Soon after your departure, I had the pleasure of finding all the danger past with which your
navigation[405] was threatened. I hope nothing happens at home to abate your satisfaction;
but that Lady Rothes[406], and Mrs. Langton, and the young ladies, are all well.

'I was last night at THE CLUB. Dr. Percy has written a long ballad[407] in many fits; it is
pretty enough. He has printed, and will soon publish it. Goldsmith is at Bath, with Lord Clare[408].
At Mr. Thrale's, where I am now writing, all are well. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 20, 1771.'

Mr. Strahan[409], the printer, who had been long in intimacy with Johnson, in the course of
his literary labours, who was at once his friendly agent in receiving his pension for him[410],
and his banker in supplying him with money when he wanted it; who was himself now a Member
of Parliament, and who loved much to be employed in political negociation[411]; thought he
should do eminent service both to government and Johnson, if he could be the means of his getting
a seat in the House of Commons[412]. With this view, he wrote a letter to one of the Secretaries
of the Treasury, of which he gave me a copy in his own hand-writing, which is as follows:--

'SIR,

'You will easily recollect, when I had the honour of waiting upon you some time ago, I took
the liberty to observe to you, that Dr. Johnson would make an excellent figure in the House
of Commons, and heartily wished he had a seat there. My reasons are briefly these:

'I know his perfect good affection to his Majesty, and his government, which I am certain he
wishes to support by every means in his power.

'He possesses a great share of manly, nervous, and ready eloquence; is quick in discerning
the strength and weakness of an argument; can express himself with clearness and precision,
and fears the face of no man alive.

'His known character, as a man of extraordinary sense and unimpeached virtue, would secure
him the attention of the House, and could not fail to give him a proper weight there.

'He is capable of the greatest application, and can undergo any degree of labour, where he
sees it necessary, and where his heart and affections are strongly engaged. His Majesty's ministers
might therefore securely depend on his doing, upon every proper occasion, the utmost that could
be expected from him. They would find him ready to vindicate such measures as tended to promote
the stability of government, and resolute and steady in carrying them into execution. Nor is
any thing to be apprehended from the supposed impetuosity of his temper. To the friends of
the King you will find him a lamb, to his enemies a lion.

'For these reasons, I humbly apprehend that he would be a very able and useful member. And
I will venture to say, the employment would not be disagreeable to him; and knowing, as I do,
his strong affection to the King, his ability to serve him in that capacity, and the extreme
ardour with which I am convinced he would engage in that service, I must repeat, that I wish
most heartily to see him in the House.

'If you think this worthy of attention, you will be pleased to take a convenient opportunity
of mentioning it to Lord North. If his Lordship should happily approve of it, I shall have
the satisfaction of having been, in some degree, the humble instrument of doing my country,
in my opinion, a very essential service. I know your good-nature, and your zeal for the publick
welfare, will plead my excuse for giving you this trouble. I am, with the greatest respect, Sir,

'Your most obedient and humble servant,

'WILLIAM STRAHAN.'

'New-street, March 30, 1771.'

This recommendation, we know, was not effectual; but how, or for what reason, can only be conjectured.
It is not to be believed that Mr. Strahan would have applied, unless Johnson had approved of
it. I never heard him mention the subject; but at a later period of his life, when Sir Joshua
Reynolds told him that Mr. Edmund Burke had said, that if he had come early into parliament,
he certainly would have been the greatest speaker that ever was there, Johnson exclaimed, 'I
should like to try my hand now.'

It has been much agitated among his friends and others, whether he would have been a powerful
speaker in Parliament, had he been brought in when advanced in life. I am inclined to think
that his extensive knowledge, his quickness and force of mind, his vivacity and richness of
expression, his wit and humour, and above all his poignancy of sarcasm, would have had great
effect in a popular assembly; and that the magnitude of his figure, and striking peculiarity
of his manner, would have aided the effect. But I remember it was observed by Mr. Flood, that
Johnson, having been long used to sententious brevity and the short flights of conversation,
might have failed in that continued and expanded kind of argument, which is requisite in stating
complicated matters in publick speaking; and as a proof of this he mentioned the supposed speeches
in Parliament written by him for the magazine, none of which, in his opinion, were at all like
real debates. The opinion of one who was himself so eminent an orator, must be allowed to have
great weight. It was confirmed by Sir William Scott, who mentioned that Johnson had told him
that he had several times tried to speak in the Society of Arts and Sciences, but 'had found
he could not get on.' From Mr. William Gerrard Hamilton I have heard that Johnson, when observing
to him that it was prudent for a man who had not been accustomed to speak in publick, to begin
his speech in as simple a manner as possible, acknowledged that he rose in that society to
deliver a speech which he had prepared; 'but (said he), all my flowers of oratory forsook me.'
I however cannot help wishing, that he had 'tried his hand' in Parliament; and I wonder that
ministry did not make the experiment.

I at length renewed a correspondence which had been too long discontinued:--

'To DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, April 18, 1771.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'I can now fully understand those intervals of silence in your correspondence with me, which
have often given me anxiety and uneasiness; for although I am conscious that my veneration
and love for Mr. Johnson have never in the least abated, yet I have deferred for almost a year
and a half to write to him.'

In the subsequent part of this letter, I gave him an account of my comfortable life as a married
man[413], and a lawyer in practice at the Scotch bar; invited him to Scotland, and promised
to attend him to the Highlands, and Hebrides.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'If you are now able to comprehend that I might neglect to write without diminution of affection,
you have taught me, likewise, how that neglect may be uneasily felt without resentment. I wished
for your letter a long time, and when it came, it amply recompensed the delay. I never was
so much pleased as now with your account of yourself; and sincerely hope, that between publick
business, improving studies, and domestick pleasures, neither melancholy nor caprice will find
any place for entrance. Whatever philosophy may determine of material nature, it is certainly
true of intellectual nature, that it abhors a vacuum: our minds cannot be empty; and evil will
break in upon them, if they are not pre-occupied by good. My dear Sir, mind your studies, mind
your business, make your lady happy, and be a good Christian. After this,

'tristitiam et metus
 Trades protervis in mare Creticum
 Portare ventis[414].'

'If we perform our duty, we shall be safe and steady, "Sive per[415]," &c., whether we climb
the Highlands, or are tost among the Hebrides; and I hope the time will come when we may try
our powers both with cliffs and water. I see but little of Lord Elibank[416], I know not why;
perhaps by my own fault. I am this day going into Staffordshire and Derbyshire for six weeks[417].

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most affectionate, 'And most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Ashbourn in Derbyshire,
     July 17, 1771.
'Compliments to Miss Reynolds,'

'To DR. JOHNSON. 'Edinburgh, July 27, 1771.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'The bearer of this, Mr. Beattie[419], Professor of Moral Philosophy at Aberdeen, is desirous
of being introduced to your acquaintance.

'His genius and learning, and labours in the service of virtue and religion, render him very
worthy of it; and as he has a high esteem of your character, I hope you will give him a favourable
reception. The last letter mentions two others which you have written to me since you received
my pamphlet. Of these two I never had but one, in which you mentioned a design of visiting
Scotland, and, by consequence, put my journey to Langton out of my thoughts. My summer wanderings
are now over, and I am engaging in a very great work, the revision of my Dictionary[420]; from
which I know not, at present, how to get loose.

'If you have observed, or been told, any errours or omissions, you will do me a great favour
by letting me know them.

'Lady Rothes, I find, has disappointed you and herself. Ladies will have these tricks. The
Queen and Mrs. Thrale, both ladies of experience, yet both missed their reckoning this summer.
I hope, a few months will recompence your uneasiness.

'Please to tell Lady Rothes how highly I value the honour of her invitation, which it is my
purpose to obey as soon as I have disengaged myself. In the mean time I shall hope to hear
often of her Ladyship, and every day better news and better, till I hear that you have both
the happiness, which to both is very sincerely wished, by, Sir,

'Your most affectionate, and 'Most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'August 29, 1771.'

In October I again wrote to him, thanking him for his last letter, and his obliging reception
of Mr. Beattie; informing him that I had been at Alnwick lately, and had good accounts of him
from Dr. Percy. How very difficult, and in my opinion almost constitutionally impossible it
was for him to be raised early, even by the strongest resolutions, appears from a note in one
of his little paper-books, (containing words arranged for his Dictionary,) written, I suppose,
about 1753: 'I do not remember that since I left Oxford I ever rose early by mere choice, but
once or twice at Edial, and two or three times for the Rambler.' I think he had fair ground
enough to have quieted his mind on this subject, by concluding that he was physically incapable
of what is at best but a commodious regulation.

In 1772 he was altogether quiescent as an authour[424]; but it will be found from the various
evidences which I shall bring together that his mind was acute, lively, and vigorous.

'To SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

'DEAR SIR,

'Be pleased to send to Mr. Banks, whose place of residence I do not know, this note, which
I have sent open, that, if you please, you may read it.

'When you send it, do not use your own seal. 'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 27, 1772.'

'To JOSEPH BANKS, ESQ.

'Perpetua ambita his terra praemia lactis Hac habet altrici Capra secunda Jovis[425].'

'Sir,

'I return thanks to you and to Dr. Solander for the pleasure which I received in yesterday's
conversation. I could not recollect a motto for your Goat, but have given her one.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'It is hard that I cannot prevail on you to write to me oftener. But I am convinced that it
is in vain to expect from you a private correspondence with any regularity. I must, therefore,
look upon you as a fountain of wisdom, from whence few rills are communicated to a distance,
and which must be approached at its source, to partake fully of its virtues.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am coming to London soon, and am to appear in an appeal from the Court of Session in the
House of Lords. A schoolmaster in Scotland was, by a court of inferiour jurisdiction, deprived
of his office, for being somewhat severe in the chastisement of his scholars[426]. The Court
of Session, considering it to be dangerous to the interest of learning and education, to lessen
the dignity of teachers, and make them afraid of too indulgent parents, instigated by the complaints
of their children, restored him. His enemies have appealed to the House of Lords, though the
salary is only twenty pounds a year. I was Counsel for him here. I hope there will be little
fear of a reversal; but I must beg to have your aid in my plan of supporting the decree. It
is a general question, and not a point of particular law. JOHNSON.'

'March 15, 1772.'

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ., NEAR SPILSBY, LINCOLNSHIRE.

'DEAR SIR,

'I congratulate you and Lady Rothes[427] on your little man, and hope you will all be many
years happy together.

'Poor Miss Langton can have little part in the joy of her family. She this day called her aunt
Langton to receive the sacrament with her; and made me talk yesterday on such subjects as suit
her condition. It will probably be her viaticum. I surely need not mention again that she wishes
to see her mother. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. Dr. Johnson received me with a hearty welcome; saying, 'I am glad you are come, and glad
you are come upon such an errand:' (alluding to the cause of the schoolmaster.) BOSWELL. 'I
hope, Sir, he will be in no danger. It is a very delicate matter to interfere between a master
and his scholars: nor do I see how you can fix the degree of severity that a master may use.'
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, till you can fix the degree of obstinacy and negligence of the scholars,
you cannot fix the degree of severity of the master. Severity must be continued until obstinacy
be subdued, and negligence be cured.' He mentioned the severity of Hunter, his own Master[429].
'Sir, (said I,) Hunter is a Scotch name: so it should seem this schoolmaster who beat you so
severely was a Scotchman. I can now account for your prejudice against the Scotch.' JOHNSON.
'Sir, he was not Scotch; and abating his brutality, he was a very good master[430].'

We talked of his two political pamphlets, The False Alarm, and Thoughts concerning Falkland's
Islands. JOHNSON. 'Well, Sir, which of them did you think the best?' BOSWELL. 'I liked the
second best.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, I liked the first best; and Beattie liked the first best.
Sir, there is a subtlety of disquisition in the first, that is worth all the fire of the second.'
BOSWELL. 'Pray, Sir, is it true that Lord North paid you a visit, and that you got two hundred
a year in addition to your pension?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir. Except what I had from the bookseller,
I did not get a farthing by them[431]. And, between you and me, I believe Lord North is no
friend to me.' BOSWELL. 'How so, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you cannot account for the fancies
of men. Well, how does Lord Elibank? and how does Lord Monboddo?' BOSWELL. 'Very well, Sir.
Lord Monboddo still maintains the superiority of the savage life[432].' JOHNSON. 'What strange
narrowness of mind now is that, to think the things we have not known, are better than the
things which we have known.' BOSWELL. 'Why, Sir, that is a common prejudice.' JOHNSON. 'Yes,
Sir, but a common prejudice should not be found in one whose trade it is to rectify errour.'

A gentleman having come in who was to go as a mate in the ship along with Mr. Banks and Dr.
Solander, Dr. Johnson asked what were the names of the ships destined for the expedition. The
gentleman answered, they were once to be called the Drake and the Ralegh, but now they were
to be called the Resolution and the Adventure[433]. JOHNSON. 'Much better; for had the Ralegh[434]
returned without going round the world, it would have been ridiculous. To give them the names
of the Drake and the Ralegh was laying a trap for satire.' BOSWELL. 'Had not you some desire
to go upon this expedition, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Why yes, but I soon laid it aside. Sir, there is
very little of intellectual, in the course. Besides, I see but at a small distance. So it was
not worth my while to go to see birds fly, which I should not have seen fly; and fishes swim,
which I should not have seen swim.'

The gentleman being gone, and Dr. Johnson having left the room for some time, a debate arose
between the Reverend Mr. Stockdale and Mrs. Desmoulins, whether Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander
were entitled to any share of glory from their expedition. When Dr. Johnson returned to us,
I told him the subject of their dispute. JOHNSON. JOHNSON. 'It should be settled one way or
other. I cannot wish well to a popular election of the clergy, when I consider that it occasions
such animosities, such unworthy courting of the people, such slanders between the contending
parties, and other disadvantages. I mentioned to him that Macaulay told me, he was advised
to leave out of his book the wonderful story that upon the approach of a stranger all the inhabitants
catch cold[442]; but that it had been so well authenticated, he determined to retain it. JOHNSON.
'Sir, to leave things out of a book, merely because people tell you they will not be believed,
is meanness. JOHNSON. 'It was soon thrown out. Sir, they talk of not making boys at the University
subscribe to what they do not understand[445]; but they ought to consider, that our Universities
were founded to bring up members for the Church of England, and we must not supply our enemies
with arms from our arsenal. No, Sir, the meaning of subscribing is, not that they fully understand
all the articles, but that they will adhere to the Church of England[446]. Now take it in this
way, and suppose that they should only subscribe their adherence to the Church of England,
there would be still the same difficulty; for still the young men would be subscribing to what
they do not understand. For if you should ask them, what do you mean by the Church of England?
Do you know in what it differs from the Presbyterian Church? from the Romish Church? from the
Greek Church? from the Coptick Church? they could not tell you. So, Sir, it comes to the same
thing.' BOSWELL. 'But, would it not be sufficient to subscribe the Bible[447]?' JOHNSON. 'Why
no, Sir; for all sects will subscribe the Bible; nay, the Mahometans will subscribe the Bible;
for the Mahometans acknowledge JESUS CHRIST, as well as Moses, but maintain that GOD sent Mahomet
as a still greater prophet than either.'

I mentioned the motion which had been made in the House of Commons, to abolish the fast of
the 30th of January[448]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, I could have wished that it had been a temporary
act, perhaps, to have expired with the century. I am against abolishing it; because that would
be declaring it wrong to establish it; but I should have no objection to make an act, continuing
it for another century, and then letting it expire.'

He disapproved of the Royal Marriage Bill; 'Because (said he) I would not have the people think
that the validity of marriage depends on the will of man, or that the right of a King depends
on the will of man. 'Perhaps, Sir, it might be done by the respect belonging to office, as
among the Romans, where the dress, the toga, inspired reverence.' JOHNSON. 'Why, we know very
little about the Romans. But, surely, it is much easier to respect a man who has always had
respect, than to respect a man who we know was last year no better than ourselves, and will
be no better next year. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, it is making a very mean use of a man's powers.
But to be a good mimick, requires great powers; great acuteness of observation, great retention
of what is observed, and great pliancy of organs, to represent what is observed. I remember
a lady of quality in this town, Lady ---- ----, who was a wonderful mimick, and used to make
me laugh immoderately. I have heard she is now gone mad.' BOSWELL. 'It is amazing how a mimick
can not only give you the gestures and voice of a person whom he represents; but even what
a person would say on any particular subject.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you are to consider that
the manner and some particular phrases of a person do much to impress you with an idea of him,
and you are not sure that he would say what the mimick says in his character.' BOSWELL. 'I
don't think Foote[453] a good mimick, Sir.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; his imitations are not like.
He gives you something different from himself, but not the character which he means to assume.
He goes out of himself, without going into other people. He cannot take off any person unless
he is strongly marked, such as George Faulkner[454]. He is like a painter, who can draw the
portrait of a man who has a wen upon his face, and who, therefore, is easily known. If a man
hops upon one leg, Foote can hop upon one leg[455]. But he has not that nice discrimination
which your friend seems to possess. I put him in mind of a meaning of the word side, which
he had omitted, viz. relationship; as father's side, mother's side. He inserted it. I asked
him if humiliating was a good word. He said, he had seen it frequently used, but he did not
know it to be legitimate English. He would not admit civilization, but only civility[457].
With great deference to him, I thought civilization, from to civilize better in the sense opposed
to barbarity, than civility; as it is better to have a distinct word for each sense, than one
word with two senses, which civility is, in his way of using it.

I then reminded him of the schoolmaster's cause, and proposed to read to him the printed papers
concerning it. 'No, Sir, (said he,) I can read quicker than I can hear.' So he read them to
himself.

After he had read for some time, we were interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Kristrom, a Swede,
who was tutor to some young gentlemen in the city. He told me, that there was a very good History
of Sweden, by Daline. Having at that time an intention of writing the history of that country[458],
I asked Dr. Johnson whether one might write a history of Sweden, without going thither. 'Yes,
Sir, (said he,) one for common use.'

We talked of languages. Johnson observed, that Leibnitz had made some progress in a work, tracing
all languages up to the Hebrew. 'Why, Sir, (said he,) you would not imagine that the French
jour, day, is derived from the Latin dies, and yet nothing is more certain; and the intermediate
steps are very clear. From dies, comes diurnus. Diu is, by inaccurate ears, or inaccurate pronunciation,
easily confounded with giu; then the Italians form a substantive of the ablative of an adjective,
and thence giurno, or, as they make it, giorno; which is readily contracted into giour, or
jour' He observed, that the Bohemian language was true Sclavonick. The Swede said, it had some
similarity with the German. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, to be sure, such parts of Sclavonia as confine
with Germany, will borrow German words; and such parts as confine with Tartary will borrow
Tartar words.'

He said, he never had it properly ascertained that the Scotch Highlanders and the Irish understood
each other[459]. I told him that my cousin Colonel Graham, of the Royal Highlanders, whom I
met at Drogheda[460], told me they did. JOHNSON. 'Sir, if the Highlanders understood Irish,
why translate the New Testament into Erse, as was done lately at Edinburgh, when there is an
Irish translation?' BOSWELL. 'Although the Erse and Irish are both dialects of the same language,
there may be a good deal of diversity between them, as between the different dialects in Italy.'--The
Swede went away, and Mr. Johnson continued his reading of the papers. I said, 'I am afraid,
Sir, it is troublesome.' 'Why, Sir, (said he,) I do not take much delight in it; but I'll go
through it.'

We went to the Mitre, and dined in the room where he and I first supped together. He gave me
great hopes of my cause. 'Sir, (said he,) the government of a schoolmaster is somewhat of the
nature of military government; that is to say, it must be arbitrary, it must be exercised by
the will of one man, according to particular circumstances. You must shew some learning upon
this occasion. You must shew, that a schoolmaster has a prescriptive right to beat; and that
an action of assault and battery cannot be admitted against him, unless there is some great
excess, some barbarity. This man has maimed none of his boys. They are all left with the full
exercise of their corporeal faculties. In our schools in England, many boys have been maimed;
yet I never heard of an action against a schoolmaster on that account. Puffendorf, I think,
maintains the right of a schoolmaster to beat his scholars[461].'

On Saturday, March 27, I introduced to him Sir Alexander Macdonald[462], with whom he had expressed
a wish to be acquainted. He received him very courteously.

Sir Alexander observed, that the Chancellors in England are chosen from views much inferiour
to the office, being chosen from temporary political views. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, in such a government
as ours, no man is appointed to an office because he is the fittest for it, nor hardly in any
other government; because there are so many connections and dependencies to be studied[463].
A despotick prince may choose a man to an office, merely because he is the fittest for it.
Johnson said to me, 'Sir, your pronunciation is not offensive.' With this concession I was
pretty well satisfied; and let me give my countrymen of North-Britain an advice not to aim
at absolute perfection in this respect; not to speak High English, as we are apt to call what
is far removed from the Scotch, but which is by no means good English, and makes, 'the fools
who use it[471],' truly ridiculous[472]. Good English is plain, easy, and smooth in the mouth
of an unaffected English Gentleman. A studied and factitious pronunciation, which requires
perpetual attention and imposes perpetual constraint, is exceedingly disgusting. A small intermixture
of provincial peculiarities may, perhaps, have an agreeable effect, as the notes of different
birds concur in the harmony of the grove, and please more than if they were all exactly alike.
I could name some gentlemen of Ireland, to whom a slight proportion of the accent and recitative
of that country is an advantage. The same observation will apply to the gentlemen of Scotland.
I do not mean that we should speak as broad as a certain prosperous member of Parliament from
that country[473]; though it has been well observed, that 'it has been of no small use to him;
as it rouses the attention of the House by its uncommonness; and is equal to tropes and figures
in a good English speaker.' I would give as an instance of what I mean to recommend to my countrymen,
the pronunciation of the late Sir Gilbert Elliot[474]; and may I presume to add that of the
present Earl of Marchmont[475], who told me, with great good humour, that the master of a shop
in London, where he was not known, said to him, 'I suppose, Sir, you are an American.' 'Why
so, Sir?' (said his Lordship.) 'Because, Sir, (replied the shopkeeper,) you speak neither English
nor Scotch, but something different from both, which I conclude is the language of America.'

BOSWELL. 'It may be of use, Sir, to have a Dictionary to ascertain the pronunciation.' JOHNSON.
'Why, Sir, my Dictionary shows you the accents of words, if you can but remember them.' BOSWELL.
'But, Sir, we want marks to ascertain the pronunciation of the vowels. Sheridan, I believe,
has finished such a work.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, consider how much easier it is to learn a language
by the ear, than by any marks. Sheridan's Dictionary may do very well; but you cannot always
carry it about with you: and, when you want the word, you have not the Dictionary. It is like
a man who has a sword that will not draw. It is an admirable sword, to be sure: but while your
enemy is cutting your throat, you are unable to use it. Besides, Sir, what entitles Sheridan
to fix the pronunciation of English? He has, in the first place, the disadvantage of being
an Irishman: and if he says he will fix it after the example of the best company, why they
differ among themselves. I remember an instance: when I published the Plan for my Dictionary,
Lord Chesterfield told me that the word great should be pronounced so as to rhyme to state;
and Sir William Yonge sent me word that it should be pronounced so as to rhyme to seat, and
that none but an Irishman would pronounce it grait[476]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, the happiness
of an unembodied spirit will consist in a consciousness of the favour of GOD, in the contemplation
of truth, and in the possession of felicitating ideas.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, is there any harm
in our forming to ourselves conjectures as to the particulars of our happiness, though the
scripture has said but very little on the subject? "We know not what we shall be."' JOHNSON.
'Sir, there is no harm. What philosophy suggests to us on this topick is probable: what scripture
tells us is certain. Dr. Henry More[477] has carried it as far as philosophy can. You may buy
both his theological and philosophical works in two volumes folio, for about eight shillings.'
BOSWELL. 'One of the most pleasing thoughts is, that we shall see our friends again.' JOHNSON.
'Yes, Sir; but you must consider, that when we are become purely rational, many of our friendships
will be cut off. Many friendships are formed by a community of sensual pleasures: all these
will be cut off. We form many friendships with bad men, because they have agreeable qualities,
and they can be useful to us; but, after death, they can no longer be of use to us. We form
many friendships by mistake, imagining people to be different from what they really are. After
death, we shall see every one in a true light. Then, Sir, they talk of our meeting our relations:
but then all relationship is dissolved; and we shall have no regard for one person more than
another, but for their real value. However, we shall either have the satisfaction of meeting
our friends, or be satisfied without meeting them[478].' BOSWELL. 'Yet, Sir, we see in scripture,
that Dives still retained an anxious concern about his brethren.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, we must
either suppose that passage to be metaphorical, or hold with many divines, and all the Purgatorians
that departed souls do not all at once arrive at the utmost perfection of which they are capable.'
BOSWELL. 'I think, Sir, that is a very rational supposition.' JOHNSON. 'Why, yes, Sir; but
we do not know it is a true one. There is no harm in believing it: but you must not compel
others to make it an article of faith; for it is not revealed.' BOSWELL. 'Do you think, Sir,
it is wrong in a man who holds the doctrine of purgatory, to pray for the souls of his deceased
friends?' JOHNSON. 'Why, no, Sir[479].' BOSWELL. 'I have been told, that in the Liturgy of
the Episcopal Church of Scotland, there was a form of prayer for the dead.' JOHNSON. 'Sir,
it is not in the liturgy which Laud framed for the Episcopal Church of Scotland: if there is
a liturgy older than that, I should be glad to see it.' BOSWELL. 'As to our employment in a
future state, the sacred writings say little. The Revelation, however, of St. John gives us
many ideas, and particularly mentions musick[480].' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, ideas must be given
you by means of something which you know[481]: and as to musick there are some philosophers
and divines who have maintained that we shall not be spiritualized to such a degree, but that
something of matter, very much refined, will remain. JOHNSON. 'Sir, Mr. Elwal was, I think,
an ironmonger at Wolverhampton; and he had a mind to make himself famous, by being the founder
of a new sect, which he wished much should be called Elwallians. He held, that every thing
in the Old Testament that was not typical, was to be of perpetual observance; and so he wore
a ribband in the plaits of his coat, and he also wore a beard. I remember I had the honour
of dining in company with Mr. Elwal. There was one Barter, a miller, who wrote against him;
and you had the controversy between Mr. ELWAL and Mr. BARTER. To try to make himself distinguished,
he wrote a letter to King George the Second, challenging him to dispute with him, in which
he said, "George, if you be afraid to come by yourself, to dispute with a poor old man, you
may bring a thousand of your black-guards with you; and if you should still be afraid, you
may bring a thousand of your red-guards." The letter had something of the impudence of Junius
to our present King. But the men of Wolverhampton were not so inflammable as the Common-Council
of London[486]; so Mr. Elwal failed in his scheme of making himself a man of great consequence[487].'

On Tuesday, March 31, he and I dined at General Paoli's. A question was started, whether the
state of marriage was natural to man. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is so far from being natural for a
man and woman to live in a state of marriage, that we find all the motives which they have
for remaining in that connection, and the restraints which civilized society imposes to prevent
separation, are hardly sufficient to keep them together.' The General said, that in a state
of nature a man and woman uniting together, would form a strong and constant affection, by
the mutual pleasure each would receive; and that the same causes of dissention would not arise
between them, as occur between husband and wife in a civilized state. JOHNSON. 'Sir, they would
have dissentions enough, though of another kind. One would choose to go a hunting in this wood,
the other in that; one would choose to go a fishing in this lake, the other in that; or, perhaps,
one would choose to go a hunting, when the other would choose to go a fishing; and so they
would part. Besides, Sir, a savage man and a savage woman meet by chance; and when the man
sees another woman that pleases him better, he will leave the first.'

We then fell into a disquisition whether there is any beauty independent of utility. The General
maintained there was not. Dr. Johnson maintained that there was; and he instanced a coffee-cup
which he held in his hand, the painting of which was of no real use, as the cup would hold
the coffee equally well if plain; yet the painting was beautiful.

We talked of the strange custom of swearing in conversation[488]. The General said, that all
barbarous nations swore from a certain violence of temper, that could not be confined to earth,
but was always reaching at the powers above. He said, too, that there was greater variety of
swearing, in proportion as there was a greater variety of religious ceremonies. BOSWELL. 'Why,
Sir, should that prevent him from continuing his work? He is an ingenious Counsel, who has
made the most of his cause: he is not obliged to gain it.' JOHNSON. JOHNSON. 'You are to consider
that ancient hospitality, of which we hear so much, was in an uncommercial country, when men
being idle, were glad to be entertained at rich men's tables. But in a commercial country,
a busy country, time becomes precious, and therefore hospitality is not so much valued. No
doubt there is still room for a certain degree of it; and a man has a satisfaction in seeing
his friends eating and drinking around him. But promiscuous hospitality is not the way to gain
real influence. You must help some people at table before others; you must ask some people
how they like their wine oftener than others. You therefore offend more people than you please.
You are like the French statesman, who said, when he granted a favour, 'J' ai fait dix mecontents
et un ingrat[494].' Besides, Sir, being entertained ever so well at a man's table, impresses
no lasting regard or esteem. No, Sir, the way to make sure of power and influence is, by lending
money confidentially to your neighbours at a small interest, or, perhaps, at no interest at
all, and having their bonds in your possession[495].' BOSWELL. 'May not a man, Sir, employ
his riches to advantage in educating young men of merit?' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, if they fall
in your way; but if it be understood that you patronize young men of merit, you will be harassed
with solicitations. You will have numbers forced upon you who have no merit; some will force
them upon you from mistaken partiality; and some from downright interested motives, without
scruple; and you will be disgraced.'

'Were I a rich man, I would propagate all kinds of trees that will grow in the open air. A
greenhouse is childish. I would introduce foreign animals into the country; for instance the
reindeer[496].'

The conversation now turned on critical subjects. JOHNSON. 'Bayes, in The Rehearsal, is a mighty
silly character. If it was intended to be like a particular man, it could only be diverting
while that man was remembered. But I question whether it was meant for Dryden, as has been
reported; for we know some of the passages said to be ridiculed, were written since The Rehearsal;
at least a passage mentioned in the Preface[497] is of a later date.' I maintained that it
had merit as a general satire on the self-importance of dramatick authours. But even in this
light he held it very cheap. JOHNSON. 'How so, Sir? Of a schoolmaster[506] of his acquaintance,
a native of Scotland, he said, 'He has a great deal of good about him; but he is also very
defective in some respects. His inner part is good, but his outer part is mighty aukward. You
in Scotland do not attain that nice critical skill in languages, which we get in our schools
in England. I would not put a boy to him, whom I intended for a man of learning. But for the
sons of citizens, who are to learn a little, get good morals, and then go to trade, he may
do very well.'

I mentioned a cause in which I had appeared as counsel at the bar of the General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland, where a Probationer[507], (as one licensed to preach, but not yet ordained,
is called,) was opposed in his application to be inducted, because it was alledged that he
had been guilty of fornication five years before. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, if he has repented, it
is not a sufficient objection. A man who is good enough to go to heaven, is good enough to
be a clergyman.' This was a humane and liberal sentiment. But the character of a clergyman
is more sacred than that of an ordinary Christian. As he is to instruct with authority, he
should be regarded with reverence, as one upon whom divine truth has had the effect to set
him above such transgressions, as men less exalted by spiritual habits, and yet upon the whole
not to be excluded from heaven, have been betrayed into by the predominance of passion. That
clergymen may be considered as sinners in general, as all men are, cannot be denied; but this
reflection will not counteract their good precepts so much, as the absolute knowledge of their
having been guilty of certain specifick immoral acts. I told him, that by the rules of the
Church of Scotland, in their Book of Discipline, if a scandal, as it is called, is not prosecuted
for five years, it cannot afterwards be proceeded upon, 'unless it be of a heinous nature,
or again become flagrant;' and that hence a question arose, whether fornication was a sin of
a heinous nature; and that I had maintained, that it did not deserve that epithet, in as much
as it was not one of those sins which argue very great depravity of heart: in short, was not,
in the general acceptation of mankind, a heinous sin. JOHNSON. 'No, Sir, it is not a heinous
sin. A heinous sin is that for which a man is punished with death or banishment[508].' BOSWELL.
'But, Sir, after I had argued that it was not an heinous sin, an old clergyman rose up, and
repeating the text of scripture denouncing judgement against whoremongers[509], asked, whether,
considering this, there could be any doubt of fornication being a heinous sin.' JOHNSON. 'Why,
Sir, observe the word whoremonger. Every sin, if persisted in, will become heinous. Whoremonger
is a dealer in whores[510], as ironmonger is a dealer in iron. But as you don't call a man
an ironmonger for buying and selling a pen-knife; so you don't call a man a whoremonger for
getting one wench with child[511].'

I spoke of the inequality of the livings of the clergy in England, and the scanty provisions
of some of the Curates. JOHNSON. 'Why yes, Sir; but it cannot be helped. You must consider,
that the revenues of the clergy are not at the disposal of the state, like the pay of the army.
Different men have founded different churches; and some are better endowed, some worse. The
State cannot interfere and make an equal division of what has been particularly appropriated.
Sir, there is more knowledge of the heart in one letter of Richardson's, than in all Tom Jones[515].
But you must read him for the sentiment, and consider the story as only giving occasion to
the sentiment.'--I have already given my opinion of Fielding; but I cannot refrain from repeating
here my wonder at Johnson's excessive and unaccountable depreciation of one of the best writers
that England has produced. Tom Jones has stood the test of publick opinion with such success,
as to have established its great merit, both for the story, the sentiments, and the manners,
and also the varieties of diction, so as to leave no doubt of its having an animated truth
of execution throughout[518].

A book of travels, lately published under the title of Coriat Junior, and written by Mr. Paterson[519],
was mentioned. Johnson said, this book was an imitation of Sterne[520], and not of Coriat,
whose name Paterson had chosen as a whimsical one. 'Tom Coriat, (said he,) was a humourist
about the court of James the First. He had a mixture of learning, of wit, and of buffoonery.
He first travelled through Europe, and published his travels[521]. He seemed to object to the
passage in scripture where we are told that the angel of the Lord smote in one night forty
thousand Assyrians[523]. 'Sir, (said Johnson,) you should recollect that there was a supernatural
interposition; they were destroyed by pestilence. You are not to suppose that the angel of
the LORD went about and stabbed each of them with a dagger, or knocked them on the head, man
by man.'

After Mr. Erskine was gone, a discussion took place, whether the present Earl of Buchan, when
Lord Cardross, did right to refuse to go Secretary of the Embassy to Spain, when Sir James
Gray, a man of inferiour rank, went Ambassadour[524]. Dr. Johnson said, that perhaps in point
of interest he did wrong; but in point of dignity he did well. Sir Alexander insisted that
he was wrong; and said that Mr. Pitt intended it as an advantageous thing for him. 'Why, Sir,
(said Johnson,) Mr. Pitt might think it an advantageous thing for him to make him a vintner,
and get him all the Portugal trade; but he would have demeaned himself strangely had he accepted
of such a situation. Sir, had he gone Secretary while his inferiour was Ambassadour, he would
have been a traitor to his rank and family.'

I talked of the little attachment which subsisted between near relations in London. 'Sir, (said
Johnson,) in a country so commercial as ours, where every man can do for himself, there is
not so much occasion for that attachment. No man is thought the worse of here, whose brother
was hanged. In uncommercial countries, many of the branches of a family must depend on the
stock; so, in order to make the head of the family take care of them, they are represented
as connected with his reputation, that, self-love being interested, he may exert himself to
promote their interest. You have first large circles, or clans; as commerce increases, the
connection is confined to families. By degrees, that too goes off, as having become unnecessary,
and there being few opportunities of intercourse. One brother is a merchant in the city, and
another is an officer in the guards. How little intercourse can these two have!'

I argued warmly for the old feudal system[525]. Sir Alexander opposed it, and talked of the
pleasure of seeing all men free and independent. JOHNSON. 'I agree with Mr. Boswell that there
must be a high satisfaction in being a feudal Lord; but we are to consider, that we ought not
to wish to have a number of men unhappy for the satisfaction of one[526].'--I maintained that
numbers, namely, the vassals or followers, were not unhappy; for that there was a reciprocal
satisfaction between the Lord and them: he being kind in his authority over them; they being
respectful and faithful to him. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, they properly mean those who make use of
the aid of evil spirits.' BOSWELL. 'There is no doubt, Sir, a general report and belief of
their having existed[528].' JOHNSON. 'You have not only the general report and belief, but
you have many voluntary solemn confessions.' He did not affirm anything positively upon a subject
which it is the fashion of the times to laugh at as a matter of absurd credulity. He only seemed
willing, as a candid enquirer after truth, however strange and inexplicable, to shew that he
understood what might be urged for it[529].

Armorial bearings having been mentioned, Johnson said they were as ancient as the siege of
Thebes, which he proved by a passage in one of the tragedies of Euripides[530]. All mankind
must condemn the aggressor.

The subject of ghosts being introduced, Johnson repeated what he had told me of a friend of
his, an honest man, and a man of sense, having asserted to him, that he had seen an apparition[541].
Goldsmith told us, he was assured by his brother, the Reverend Mr. Goldsmith, that he also
had seen one. General Oglethorpe told us, that Prendergast, an officer in the Duke of Marlborough's
army, had mentioned to many of his friends, that he should die on a particular day. That upon
that day a battle took place with the French; that after it was over, and Prendergast was still
alive, his brother officers, while they were yet in the field, jestingly asked him, where was
his prophecy now. Prendergast gravely answered. 'I shall die, notwithstanding what you see.'
Soon afterwards, there came a shot from a French battery, to which the orders for a cessation
of arms had not yet reached, and he was killed upon the spot. Colonel Cecil, who took possession
of his effects, found in his pocket-book the following solemn entry:

[Here the date.] 'Dreamt--or ----.[542] Sir John Friend meets me:' (here the very day on which
he was killed, was mentioned.) Prendergast had been connected with Sir John Friend, who was
executed for high treason. General Oglethorpe said, he was with Colonel Cecil when Pope came
and enquired into the truth of this story, which made a great noise at the time, and was then
confirmed by the Colonel. Correction, in itself, is not cruel; children, being not reasonable,
can be governed only by fear. To impress this fear, is therefore one of the first duties of
those who have the care of children. It is the duty of a parent; and has never been thought
inconsistent with parental tenderness. It is the duty of a master, who is in his highest exaltation
when he is loco parentis. Yet, as good things become evil by excess, correction, by being immoderate,
may become cruel. But when is correction immoderate? When it is more frequent or more severe
than is required ad monendum et docendum, for reformation and instruction. No severity is cruel
which obstinacy makes necessary; for the greatest cruelty would be to desist, and leave the
scholar too careless for instruction, and too much hardened for reproof. Locke, in his treatise
of Education, mentions a mother, with applause, who whipped an infant eight times before she
had subdued it; for had she stopped at the seventh act of correction, her daughter, says he,
would have been ruined[543]. The degrees of obstinacy in young minds, are very different; as
different must be the degrees of persevering severity. A stubborn scholar must be corrected
till he is subdued. The discipline of a school is military. There must be either unbounded
licence or absolute authority. The master, who punishes, not only consults the future happiness
of him who is the immediate subject of correction; but he propagates obedience through the
whole school; and establishes regularity by exemplary justice. The victorious obstinacy of
a single boy would make his future endeavours of reformation or instruction totally ineffectual.
Obstinacy, therefore, must never be victorious. Yet, it is well known, that there sometimes
occurs a sullen and hardy resolution, that laughs at all common punishment, and bids defiance
to all common degrees of pain. Correction must be proportioned to occasions. The flexible will
be reformed by gentle discipline, and the refractory must be subdued by harsher methods. The
degrees of scholastick, as of military punishment, no stated rules can ascertain. It must be
enforced till it overpowers temptation; till stubbornness becomes flexible, and perverseness
regular. Custom and reason have, indeed, set some bounds to scholastick penalties. The schoolmaster
inflicts no capital punishments; nor enforces his edicts by either death or mutilation. The
civil law has wisely determined, that a master who strikes at a scholar's eye shall be considered
as criminal. But punishments, however severe, that produce no lasting evil, may be just and
reasonable, because they may be necessary. Such have been the punishments used by the respondent.
No scholar has gone from him either blind or lame, or with any of his limbs or powers injured
or impaired. They were irregular, and he punished them: they were obstinate, and he enforced
his punishment. But, however provoked, he never exceeded the limits of moderation, for he inflicted
nothing beyond present pain; and how much of that was required, no man is so little able to
determine as those who have determined against him;--the parents of the offenders. It has been
said, that he used unprecedented and improper instruments of correction. Of this accusation
the meaning is not very easy to be found. No instrument of correction is more proper than another,
but as it is better adapted to produce present pain without lasting mischief. Whatever were
his instruments, no lasting mischief has ensued; and therefore, however unusual, in hands so
cautious they were proper. It has been objected, that the respondent admits the charge of cruelty,
by producing no evidence to confute it. Let it be considered, that his scholars are either
dispersed at large in the world, or continue to inhabit the place in which they were bred.
Those who are dispersed cannot be found; those who remain are the sons of his persecutors,
and are not likely to support a man to whom their fathers are enemies. If it be supposed that
the enmity of their fathers proves the justice of the charge, it must be considered how often
experience shews us, that men who are angry on one ground will accuse on another; with how
little kindness, in a town of low trade, a man who lives by learning is regarded; and how implicitly,
where the inhabitants are not very rich, a rich man is hearkened to and followed. In a place
like Campbelltown, it is easy for one of the principal inhabitants to make a party. It is easy
for that party to heat themselves with imaginary grievances. It is easy for them to oppress
a man poorer than themselves; and natural to assert the dignity of riches, by persisting in
oppression. The argument which attempts to prove the impropriety of restoring him to the school,
by alledging that he has lost the confidence of the people, is not the subject of juridical
consideration; for he is to suffer, if he must suffer, not for their judgement, but for his
own actions. It may be convenient for them to have another master; but it is a convenience
of their own making. It would be likewise convenient for him to find another school; but this
convenience he cannot obtain. The question is not what is now convenient, but what is generally
right. I repeated a sentence of Lord Mansfield's speech, of which, by the aid of Mr. Longlands,
the solicitor on the other side, who obligingly allowed me to compare his note with my own,
I have a full copy: 'My Lords, severity is not the way to govern either boys or men.' 'Nay,
(said Johnson,) it is the way to govern them. JOHNSON. 'Sir, that expulsion was extremely just
and proper[546]. JOHNSON. 'No, Sir. While learning to read and write is a distinction, the
few who have that distinction may be the less inclined to work; but when every body learns
to read and write, it is no longer a distinction[551]. A man who has a laced waistcoat is too
fine a man to work; but if every body had laced waistcoats, we should have people working in
laced waistcoats. There are no people whatever more industrious, none who work more, than our
manufacturers[552]; yet they have all learnt to read and write. Sir, you must not neglect doing
a thing immediately good, from fear of remote evil;--from fear of its being abused[553]. A
man who has candles may sit up too late, which he would not do if he had not candles; but nobody
will deny that the art of making candles, by which light is continued to us beyond the time
that the sun gives us light, is a valuable art, and ought to be preserved.' BOSWELL. 'But,
Sir, would it not be better to follow Nature; and go to bed and rise just as nature gives us
light or with-holds it?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; for then we should have no kind of equality in
the partition of our time between sleeping and waking. It would be very different in different
seasons and in different places. In some of the northern parts of Scotland how little light
is there in the depth of winter!'

We talked of Tacitus[554], and I hazarded an opinion, that with all his merit for penetration,
shrewdness of judgement, and terseness of expression, he was too compact, too much broken into
hints, as it were, and therefore too difficult to be understood. To my great satisfaction,
Dr. Johnson sanctioned this opinion. Johnson said, that Professor Sanderson[559] mentions his
having attempted to do it, but that he found he was aiming at an impossibility; that to be
sure a difference in the surface makes the difference of colours; but that difference is so
fine, that it is not sensible to the touch. The General mentioned jugglers and fraudulent gamesters,
who could know cards by the touch. BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, is there not a quality called taste[561],
which consists merely in perception or in liking? For instance, we find people differ much
as to what is the best style of English composition. Some think Swift's the best; others prefer
a fuller and grander way of writing.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, you must first define what you mean by
style, before you can judge who has a good taste in style, and who has a bad. The two classes
of persons whom you have mentioned don't differ as to good and bad. They both agree that Swift
has a good neat style[562]; but one loves a neat style, another loves a style of more splendour.
He answered, 'A conceited fellow. Were a man to write so now, the boys would throw stones at
him.' He, however, did not alter my opinion of a favourite authour, to whom I was first directed
by his being quoted in The Spectator[566], and in whom I have found much shrewd and lively
sense, expressed indeed in a style somewhat quaint, which, however, I do not dislike. His book
has an air of originality. We figure to ourselves an ancient gentleman talking to us.

When one of his friends endeavoured to maintain that a country gentleman might contrive to
pass his life very agreeably, 'Sir (said he,) you cannot give me an instance of any man who
is permitted to lay out his own time, contriving not to have tedious hours[567].' This observation,
however, is equally applicable to gentlemen who live in cities, and are of no profession.

He said, 'there is no permanent national character; it varies according to circumstances. There
is but a shallow stream of thought in history.' BOSWELL. 'But surely, Sir, an historian has
reflection.' JOHNSON. 'Why yes, Sir; and so has a cat when she catches a mouse for her kitten.
But she cannot write like ****; neither can ****.'[570]

He said, 'I am very unwilling to read the manuscripts of authours, and give them my opinion[571].
It was held of old, and continued for a long period, to be an established principle in that
law, that whoever intermeddled with the effects of a person deceased, without the interposition
of legal authority to guard against embezzlement, should be subjected to pay all the debts
of the deceased, as having been guilty of what was technically called vicious intromission.
The Court of Session had gradually relaxed the strictness of this principle, where the interference
proved had been inconsiderable. In a case[574] which came before that Court the preceding winter,
I had laboured to persuade the Judges to return to the ancient law. It was my own sincere opinion,
that they ought to adhere to it; but I had exhausted all my powers of reasoning in vain. Johnson
thought as I did; and in order to assist me in my application to the Court for a revision and
alteration of the judgement, he dictated to me the following argument:--

'This, we are told, is a law which has its force only from the long practice of the Court:
and may, therefore, be suspended or modified as the Court shall think proper.

'Concerning the power of the Court to make or to suspend a law, we have no intention to inquire.
It is sufficient for our purpose that every just law is dictated by reason; and that the practice
of every legal Court is regulated by equity. It is the quality of reason to be invariable and
constant; and of equity, to give to one man what, in the same case, is given to another. The
advantage which humanity derives from law is this: that the law gives every man a rule of action,
and prescribes a mode of conduct which shall entitle him to the support and protection of society.
That the law may be a rule of action, it is necessary that it be known; it is necessary that
it be permanent and stable. The law is the measure of civil right; but if the measure be changeable,
the extent of the thing measured never can be settled.

'To permit a law to be modified at discretion, is to leave the community without law. It is
to withdraw the direction of that publick wisdom, by which the deficiencies of private understanding
are to be supplied. It is to suffer the rash and ignorant to act at discretion, and then to
depend for the legality of that action on the sentence of the Judge. He that is thus governed,
lives not by law, but by opinion: not by a certain rule to which he can apply his intention
before he acts, but by an uncertain and variable opinion, which he can never know but after
he has committed the act on which that opinion shall be passed. He lives by a law, (if a law
it be,) which he can never know before he has offended it. To this case may be justly applied
that important principle, misera est servitus ubi jus est aut incognitum aut vagum. If Intromission
be not criminal till it exceeds a certain point, and that point be unsettled, and consequently
different in different minds, the right of Intromission, and the right of the Creditor arising
from it, are all jura vaga, and, by consequence, are jura incognita; and the result can be
no other than a misera servitus, an uncertainty concerning the event of action, a servile dependence
on private opinion.

'It may be urged, and with great plausibility, that there may be Intromission without fraud;
which, however true, will by no means justify an occasional and arbitrary relaxation of the
law. The end of law is protection as well as vengeance. Indeed, vengeance is never used but
to strengthen protection. That society only is well governed, where life is freed from danger
and from suspicion; where possession is so sheltered by salutary prohibitions, that violation
is prevented more frequently than punished. Such a prohibition was this, while it operated
with its original force. The creditor of the deceased was not only without loss, but without
fear. He was not to seek a remedy for an injury suffered; for, injury was warded off.

'As the law has been sometimes administered, it lays us open to wounds, because it is imagined
to have the power of healing. To punish fraud when it is detected, is the proper act of vindictive
justice; but to prevent frauds, and make punishment unnecessary, is the great employment of
legislative wisdom. To permit Intromission, and to punish fraud, is to make law no better than
a pitfall. To tread upon the brink is safe; but to come a step further is destruction. But,
surely, it is better to enclose the gulf, and hinder all access, than by encouraging us to
advance a little, to entice us afterwards a little further, and let us perceive our folly only
by our destruction.

'As law supplies the weak with adventitious strength, it likewise enlightens the ignorant with
extrinsick understanding. Law teaches us to know when we commit injury, and when we suffer
it. It fixes certain marks upon actions, by which we are admonished to do or to forbear them.
Qui sibi bene temperat in licitis, says one of the fathers, nunquam cadet in illicita. He who
never intromits at all, will never intromit with fraudulent intentions.

'The relaxation of the law against vicious intromission has been very favourably represented
by a great master of jurisprudence[575], whose words have been exhibited with unnecessary pomp,
and seem to be considered as irresistibly decisive. The great moment of his authority makes
it necessary to examine his position. "Some ages ago, (says he,) before the ferocity of the
inhabitants of this part of the island was subdued, the utmost severity of the civil law was
necessary, to restrain individuals from plundering each other. Thus, the man who intermeddled
irregularly with the moveables of a person deceased, was subjected to all the debts of the
deceased without limitation. This makes a branch of the law of Scotland, known by the name
of vicious intromission; and so rigidly was this regulation applied in our Courts of Law, that
the most trifling moveable abstracted mala fide, subjected the intermeddler to the foregoing
consequences, which proved in many instances a most rigorous punishment. But this severity
was necessary, in order to subdue the undisciplined nature of our people. It is extremely remarkable,
that in proportion to our improvement in manners, this regulation has been gradually softened,
and applied by our sovereign Court with a sparing hand."

'I find myself under a necessity of observing, that this learned and judicious writer has not
accurately distinguished the deficiencies and demands of the different conditions of human
life, which, from a degree of savageness and independence, in which all laws are vain, passes
or may pass, by innumerable gradations, to a state of reciprocal benignity, in which laws shall
be no longer necessary. Men are first wild and unsocial, living each man to himself, taking
from the weak, and losing to the strong. In their first coalitions of society, much of this
original savageness is retained. Of general happiness, the product of general confidence, there
is yet no thought. Men continue to prosecute their own advantages by the nearest way; and the
utmost severity of the civil law is necessary to restrain individuals from plundering each
other. The restraints then necessary, are restraints from plunder, from acts of publick violence,
and undisguised oppression. The ferocity of our ancestors, as of all other nations, produced
not fraud, but rapine. They had not yet learned to cheat, and attempted only to rob. As manners
grow more polished, with the knowledge of good, men attain likewise dexterity in evil. Open
rapine becomes less frequent, and violence gives way to cunning. Those who before invaded pastures
and stormed houses, now begin to enrich themselves by unequal contracts and fraudulent intromissions.
It is not against the violence of ferocity, but the circumventions of deceit, that this law
was framed; and I am afraid the increase of commerce, and the incessant struggle for riches
which commerce excites, give us no prospect of an end speedily to be expected of artifice and
fraud. It therefore seems to be no very conclusive reasoning, which connects those two propositions;--"the
nation is become less ferocious, and therefore the laws against fraud and covin[576] shall
be relaxed."

'Whatever reason may have influenced the Judges to a relaxation of the law, it was not that
the nation was grown less fierce; and, I am afraid, it cannot be affirmed, that it is grown
less fraudulent.

'Since this law has been represented as rigorously and unreasonably penal, it seems not improper
to consider what are the conditions and qualities that make the justice or propriety of a penal
law.

'To make a penal law reasonable and just, two conditions are necessary, and two proper. It
is necessary that the law should be adequate to its end; that, if it be observed, it shall
prevent the evil against which it is directed. It is, secondly, necessary that the end of the
law be of such importance, as to deserve the security of a penal sanction. The other conditions
of a penal law, which though not absolutely necessary, are to a very high degree fit, are,
that to the moral violation of the law there are many temptations, and that of the physical
observance there is great facility.

'All these conditions apparently concur to justify the law which we are now considering. Its
end is the security of property; and property very often of great value. The method by which
it effects the security is efficacious, because it admits, in its original rigour, no gradations
of injury; but keeps guilt and innocence apart, by a distinct and definite limitation. He that
intromits, is criminal; he that intromits not, is innocent. Of the two secondary considerations
it cannot be denied that both are in our favour. The temptation to intromit is frequent and
strong; so strong and so frequent, as to require the utmost activity of justice, and vigilance
of caution, to withstand its prevalence; and the method by which a man may entitle himself
to legal intromission, is so open and so facile, that to neglect it is a proof of fraudulent
intention: for why should a man omit to do (but for reasons which he will not confess,) that
which he can do so easily, and that which he knows to be required by the law? If temptation
were rare, a penal law might be deemed unnecessary. If the duty enjoined by the law were of
difficult performance, omission, though it could not be justified, might be pitied. But in
the present case, neither equity nor compassion operate against it. A useful, a necessary law
is broken, not only without a reasonable motive, but with all the inducements to obedience
that can be derived from safety and facility.

'I therefore return to my original position, that a law, to have its effect, must be permanent
and stable. It may be said, in the language of the schools, Lex non recipit majus et minus,--we
may have a law, or we may have no law, but we cannot have half a law. We must either have a
rule of action, or be permitted to act by discretion and by chance. Deviations from the law
must be uniformly punished, or no man can be certain when he shall be safe.

'That from the rigour of the original institution this Court has sometimes departed, cannot
be denied. But, as it is evident that such deviations, as they make law uncertain, make life
unsafe, I hope, that of departing from it there will now be an end; that the wisdom of our
ancestors will be treated with due reverence; and that consistent and steady decisions will
furnish the people with a rule of action, and leave fraud and fraudulent intromission no future
hope of impunity or escape.'

With such comprehension of mind, and such clearness of penetration, did he thus treat a subject
altogether new to him, without any other preparation than my having stated to him the arguments
which had been used on each side of the question. His intellectual powers appeared with peculiar
lustre, when tried against those of a writer of so much fame as Lord Kames, and that too in
his Lordship's own department[577].

This masterly argument, after being prefaced and concluded with some sentences of my own, and
garnished with the usual formularies, was actually printed and laid before the Lords of Session[578],
but without success. My respected friend Lord Hailes, however, one of that honourable body,
had critical sagacity enough to discover a more than ordinary hand in the Petition. I told
him Dr. Johnson had favoured me with his pen. His Lordship, with wonderful acumen, pointed
out exactly where his composition began, and where it ended[579]. But that I may do impartial
justice, and conform to the great rule of Courts, Suum cuique tribuito, I must add, that their
Lordships in general, though they were pleased to call this 'a well-drawn paper,' preferred
the former very inferiour petition which I had written; thus confirming the truth of an observation
made to me by one of their number, in a merry mood: 'My dear Sir, give yourself no trouble
in the composition of the papers you present to us; for, indeed, it is casting pearls before
swine.'

I renewed my solicitations that Dr. Johnson would this year accomplish his long-intended visit
to Scotland.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'The regret has not been little with which I have missed a journey so pregnant with pleasing
expectations, as that in which I could promise myself not only the gratification of curiosity,
both rational and fanciful, but the delight of seeing those whom I love and esteem. But such
has been the course of things, that I could not come; and such has been, I am afraid, the state
of my body, that it would not well have seconded my inclination. My body, I think, grows better,
and I refer my hopes to another year; for I am very sincere in my design to pay the visit,
and take the ramble. In the mean time, do not omit any opportunity of keeping up a favourable
opinion of me in the minds of any of my friends. Beattie's book[580] is, I believe, every day
more liked; at least, I like it more, as I look more upon it.

'I am glad if you got credit by your cause, and am yet of opinion, that our cause was good,
and that the determination ought to have been in your favour. Poor Hastie[581], I think, had
but his deserts.

'You promised to get me a little Pindar, you may add to it a little Anacreon.

'The leisure which I cannot enjoy, it will be a pleasure to hear that you employ upon the antiquities
of the feudal establishment. The whole system of ancient tenures is gradually passing away;
and I wish to have the knowledge of it preserved adequate and complete. For such an institution
makes a very important part of the history of mankind. Do not forget a design so worthy of
a scholar who studies the laws of his country, and of a gentleman who may naturally be curious
to know the condition of his own ancestors.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Yours with great affection,

'SAM JOHNSON.'

'August 31, 1772[582].'

'TO DR. JOHNSON.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Edinburgh, Dec. 25, 1772.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I was much disappointed that you did not come to Scotland last autumn. However, I must own
that your letter prevents me from complaining; not only because I am sensible that the state
of your health was but too good an excuse, but because you write in a strain which shews that
you have agreeable views of the scheme which we have so long proposed.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I communicated to Beattie what you said of his book in your last letter to me. He writes to
me thus:--"You judge very rightly in supposing that Dr. Johnson's favourable opinion of any
book must give me great delight. Indeed it is impossible for me to say how much I am gratified
by it; for there is not a man upon earth whose good opinion I would be more ambitious to cultivate.
His talents and his virtues I reverence more than any words can express. The extraordinary
civilities[583] (the paternal attentions I should rather say,) and the many instructions I
have had the honour to receive from him, will to me be a perpetual source of pleasure in the
recollection,

'"Dum memor ipse mei, dum spiritus has reget artus[584].

'"I had still some thoughts, while the summer lasted, of being obliged to go to London on some
little business; otherwise I should certainly have troubled him with a letter several months
ago, and given some vent to my gratitude and admiration. This I intend to do, as soon as I
am left a little at leisure. Mean time, if you have occasion to write to him, I beg you will
offer him my most respectful compliments, and assure him of the sincerity of my attachment
and the warmth of my gratitude."

'DEAR SIR,

'I have read your kind letter much more than the elegant Pindar which it accompanied. I am
always glad to find myself not forgotten; and to be forgotten by you would give me great uneasiness.
My northern friends have never been unkind to me: I have from you, dear Sir, testimonies of
affection, which I have not often been able to excite; and Dr. Beattie rates the testimony
which I was desirous of paying to his merit, much higher than I should have thought it reasonable
to expect.

'I have heard of your masquerade[590]. What says your synod to such innovations? I am not studiously
scrupulous, nor do I think a masquerade either evil in itself, or very likely to be the occasion
of evil; yet as the world thinks it a very licentious relaxation of manners, I would not have
been one of the first masquers in a country where no masquerade had ever been before[591].
Dr. Goldsmith has a new comedy, which is expected in the spring. No name is yet given it[593].

'I am sorry that you lost your cause of Intromission, because I yet think the arguments on
your side unanswerable. But you seem, I think, to say that you gained reputation even by your
defeat; and reputation you will daily gain, if you keep Lord Auchinleck's precept in your mind,
and endeavour to consolidate in your mind a firm and regular system of law, instead of picking
up occasional fragments. 'Gladly, Sir, (says he,) would I have sent you the originals; but
being the only relicks of the kind in America, they are considered by the possessors of such
inestimable value, that no possible consideration would induce them to part with them. In some
future publication of yours relative to that great and good man, they may perhaps be thought
worthy of insertion.'

'To MR. B---D[594].

'SIR,

'That in the hurry of a sudden departure you should yet find leisure to consult my convenience,
is a degree of kindness, and an instance of regard, not only beyond my claims, but above my
expectation. You are not mistaken in supposing that I set a high value on my American friends,
and that you should confer a very valuable favour upon me by giving me an opportunity of keeping
myself in their memory.

'I have taken the liberty of troubling you with a packet, to which I wish a safe and speedy
conveyance, because I wish a safe and speedy voyage to him that conveys it. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Johnson's-court, Fleet street, March 4, 1773.'

'To THE REVEREND MR. WHITE[595].

'DEAR SIR,

'Your kindness for your friends accompanies you across the Atlantick. It was long since observed
by Horace[596], that no ship could leave care behind; you have been attended in your voyage
by other powers,--by benevolence and constancy; and I hope care did not often shew her face
in their company.

'I received the copy of Rasselas. The impression is not magnificent, but it flatters an authour,
because the printer seems to have expected that it would be scattered among the people. The
little book has been well received, and is translated into Italian[597], French[598], German,
and Dutch[599]. It has now one honour more by an American edition.

'I know not that much has happened since your departure that can engage your curiosity. Of
all publick transactions the whole world is now informed by the newspapers. Opposition seems
to despond; and the dissenters, though they have taken advantage of unsettled times, and a
government much enfeebled, seem not likely to gain any immunities[600].

'Dr. Goldsmith has a new comedy in rehearsal at Covent-Garden, to which the manager predicts
ill success[601]. I hope he will be mistaken. I think it deserves a very kind reception.

'I shall soon publish a new edition of my large Dictionary; I have been persuaded to revise
it, and have mended some faults, but added little to its usefulness.

'No book has been published since your departure, of which much notice is taken. Faction only
fills the town with pamphlets, and greater subjects are forgotten in the noise of discord.

'Thus have I written, only to tell you how little I have to tell. Of myself I can only add,
that having been afflicted many weeks with a very troublesome cough, I am now recovered.

'I take the liberty which you give me of troubling you with a letter, of which you will please
to fill up the direction. This, Sir, is a new plume to him.'

I mentioned Sir John Dalrymple's Memoirs of Great-Britain and Ireland, and his discoveries
to the prejudice of Lord Russel and Algernon Sydney. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, every body who had
just notions of government thought them rascals before. It is well that all mankind now see
them to be rascals.' BOSWELL. 'But, Sir, may not those discoveries be true without their being
rascals?' JOHNSON. 'Consider, Sir; would any of them have been willing to have had it known
that they intrigued with France? Depend upon it, Sir, he who does what he is afraid should
be known, has something rotten about him. This Dalrymple seems to be an honest fellow[606];
for he tells equally what makes against both sides. But nothing can be poorer than his mode
of writing, it is the mere bouncing of a school-boy. Great He! but greater She! and such stuff[607].'

I could not agree with him in this criticism; for though Sir John Dalrymple's style is not
regularly formed in any respect, and one cannot help smiling sometimes at his affected grandiloquence,
there is in his writing a pointed vivacity, and much of a gentlemanly spirit. If you speak
to a dog, you use action; you hold up your hand thus, because he is a brute; and in proportion
as men are removed from brutes, action will have the less influence upon them.' MRS. THRALE.
'What then, Sir, becomes of Demosthenes's saying? "Action, action, action!"' JOHNSON. 'Demosthenes,
Madam, spoke to an assembly of brutes; to a barbarous people[609].'

I thought it extraordinary, that he should deny the power of rhetorical action upon human nature,
when it is proved by innumerable facts in all stages of society. Reasonable beings are not
solely reasonable. They have fancies which may be pleased, passions which may be roused. He,
however, allowed the merit of good wit to his Lordship's saying of Lord Tyrawley[611] and himself,
when both very old and infirm: 'Tyrawley and I have been dead these two years; but we don't
choose to have it known.'

He talked with approbation of an intended edition of The Spectator, with notes; two volumes
of which had been prepared by a gentleman eminent in the literary world, and the materials
which he had collected for the remainder had been transferred to another hand[612]. He observed,
that all works which describe manners, require notes in sixty or seventy years, or less; and
told us, he had communicated all he knew that could throw light upon The Spectator. He said,
'Addison had made his Sir Andrew Freeport a true Whig, arguing against giving charity to beggars,
and throwing out other such ungracious sentiments; but that he had thought better, and made
amends by making him found an hospital for decayed farmers[613].' He called for the volume
of The Spectator, in which that account is contained, and read it aloud to us. He read so well,
that every thing acquired additional weight and grace from his utterance[614]. He said, 'Burnet's
History of his own times is very entertaining[616]. The style, indeed, is mere chitchat[617].
I do not believe that Burnet intentionally lyed; but he was so much prejudiced, that he took
no pains to find out the truth.

In Archbishop Laud's Diary, I found the following passage, which I read to Dr. Johnson:--

'1623. February 1, Sunday. I stood by the most illustrious Prince Charles[622], at dinner.
He was then very merry, and talked occasionally of many things with his attendants. Among other
things, he said, that if he were necessitated to take any particular profession of life, he
could not be a lawyer, adding his reasons: "I cannot (saith he,) defend a bad, nor yield in
a good cause."'

JOHNSON.

Of Dr. John Campbell, the authour, he said, 'He is a very inquisitive and a very able man,
and a man of good religious principles, though I am afraid he has been deficient in practice.
He had seen a complete collection of them in the possession of the Hon. Archibald Campbell,
a non-juring Bishop[631]. I wish this collection had been kept entire. Many of them are in
the library of the Faculty of Advocates at Edinburgh. I told Dr. Johnson that I had some intention
to write the life of the learned and worthy Thomas Ruddiman[632]. He said, 'I should take pleasure
in helping you to do honour to him. But his farewell letter to the Faculty of Advocates, when
he resigned the office of their Librarian, should have been in Latin.'

I put a question to him upon a fact in common life, which he could not answer, nor have I found
any one else who could. What is the reason that women servants, though obliged to be at the
expense of purchasing their own clothes, have much lower wages than men servants, to whom a
great proportion of that article is furnished, and when in fact our female house servants work
much harder than the male[633]? He advised me to do it. He said, 'You shall have them all for
twopence.

Talking of law cases, he said, 'The English reports, in general, are very poor: only the half
of what has been said is taken down; and of that half, much is mistaken. Whereas, in Scotland,
the arguments on each side are deliberately put in writing, to be considered by the Court.
Johnson asserted the affirmative. I maintained that the position might be true in those kinds
of knowledge which produce wisdom, power, and force, so as to enable one man to have the government
of others; but that a man is not in any degree lessened by others knowing as well as he what
ends in mere pleasure:--eating fine fruits, drinking delicious wines, reading exquisite poetry.

The General observed, that Martinelli was a Whig. JOHNSON. 'I am sorry for it. It shows the
spirit of the times: he is obliged to temporise.' BOSWELL. 'I rather think, Sir, that Toryism
prevails in this reign.' JOHNSON. 'I know not why you should think so, Sir. You see your friend
Lord Lyttelton[645], a nobleman, is obliged in his History to write the most vulgar Whiggism.'

An animated debate took place whether Martinelli should continue his History of England to
the present day. GOLDSMITH. 'To be sure he should.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; he would give great
offence. He would have to tell of almost all the living great what they do not wish told.'
GOLDSMITH. 'It may, perhaps, be necessary for a native to be more cautious; but a foreigner
who comes among us without prejudice, may be considered as holding the place of a Judge, and
may speak his mind freely.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, a foreigner, when he sends a work from the press,
ought to be on his guard against catching the errour and mistaken enthusiasm of the people
among whom he happens to be.' GOLDSMITH. 'Sir, he wants only to sell his history, and to tell
truth; one an honest, the other a laudable motive.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, they are both laudable motives.
It is laudable in a man to wish to live by his labours; but he should write so as he may live
by them, not so as he may be knocked on the head. I would advise him to be at Calais before
he publishes his history of the present age. A foreigner who attaches himself to a political
party in this country, is in the worst state that can be imagined: he is looked upon as a mere
intermeddler. A native may do it from interest.' BOSWELL. 'Or principle.' GOLDSMITH. 'There
are people who tell a hundred political lies every day, and are not hurt by it. Surely, then,
one may tell truth with safety.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, in the first place, he who tells a hundred
lies has disarmed the force of his lies[646]. But besides; a man had rather have a hundred
lies told of him, than one truth which he does not wish should be told.' GOLDSMITH. 'For my
part, I'd tell truth, and shame the devil.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir; but the devil will be angry.
I wish to shame the devil as much you do, but I should choose to be out of the reach of his
claws.' GOLDSMITH. 'And a very dull fellow.' JOHNSON. Indeed we may observe what strained arguments
are used, to reconcile war with the Christian religion. But, in my opinion, it is exceedingly
clear that duelling, having better reasons for its barbarous violence, is more justifiable
than war, in which thousands go forth without any cause of personal quarrel, and massacre each
other. 'True. 'May it not be doubted, Sir, whether it be proper to publish letters, arraigning
the ultimate decision of an important cause by the supreme judicature of the nation?' JOHNSON.
'No, Sir, I do not think it was wrong to publish these letters. If they are thought to do harm,
why not answer them? But they will do no harm; if Mr. Douglas be indeed the son of Lady Jane,
he cannot be hurt: if he be not her son, and yet has the great estate of the family of Douglas,
he may well submit to have a pamphlet against him by Andrew Stuart. Sir, I think such a publication
does good, as it does good to show us the possibilities of human life. And Sir, you will not
say that the Douglas cause was a cause of easy decision, when it divided your Court as much
as it could do, to be determined at all. When your Judges were seven and seven, the casting
vote of the President must be given on one side or other: no matter, for my argument, on which;
one or the other must be taken: as when I am to move, there is no matter which leg I move first.
And then, Sir, it was otherwise determined here.

The custom of eating dogs at Otaheite being mentioned, Goldsmith observed, that this was also
a custom in China; that a dog-butcher is as common there as any other butcher; and that when
he walks abroad all the dogs fall on him. JOHNSON. 'That is not owing to his killing dogs,
Sir. I remember a butcher at Lichfield, whom a dog that was in the house where I lived, always
attacked. It is the smell of carnage which provokes this, let the animals he has killed be
what they may.' GOLDSMITH. 'Yes, there is a general abhorrence in animals at the signs of massacre.
If you put a tub full of blood into a stable, the horses are like to go mad.' JOHNSON. 'I doubt
that.' GOLDSMITH. 'Nay, Sir, it is a fact well authenticated.' THRALE. 'You had better prove
it before you put it into your book on natural history. You may do it in my stable if you will.'
JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, I would not have him prove it. If he is content to take his information
from others, he may get through his book with little trouble, and without much endangering
his reputation. "Praesens Divus habebitur Augustus[685]." 'Why, who are before him[693]?' BOSWELL.

When we got to Temple-bar he stopped me, pointed to the heads upon it[702], and slily whispered me,

"Forsitan et nostrum nomen miscebitur ISTIS[703]."'. I think more highly of him now than I
did at twenty[707]. There is more thinking in him and in Butler, than in any of our poets.'

Some of the company expressed a wonder why the authour of so excellent a book as The Whole
Duty of Man[708] should conceal himself. JOHNSON. 'There may be different reasons assigned
for this, any one of which would be very sufficient. He may have been a clergyman, and may
have thought that his religious counsels would have less weight when known to come from a man
whose profession was Theology. He may have been a man whose practice was not suitable to his
principles, so that his character might injure the effect of his book, which he had written
in a season of penitence. I introduced a question which has been much agitated in the Church
of Scotland, whether the claim of lay-patrons to present ministers to parishes be well founded;
and supposing it to be well founded, whether it ought to be exercised without the concurrence
of the people? That Church is composed of a series of judicatures: a Presbytery, a Synod, and
finally, a General Assembly; before all of which, this matter may be contended: and in some
cases the Presbytery having refused to induct or settle, as they call it, the person presented
by the patron, it has been found necessary to appeal to the General Assembly. He said, I might
see the subject well treated in the Defence of Pluralities[718]; and although he thought that
a patron should exercise his right with tenderness to the inclinations of the people of a parish,
he was very clear as to his right. Then supposing the question to be pleaded before the General
Assembly, he dictated to me what follows:

'Against the right of patrons is commonly opposed, by the inferiour judicatures, the plea of
conscience. Their conscience tells them, that the people ought to choose their pastor; their
conscience tells them that they ought not to impose upon a congregation a minister ungrateful
and unacceptable to his auditors. Conscience is nothing more than a conviction felt by ourselves
of something to be done, or something to be avoided; and in questions of simple unperplexed
morality, conscience is very often a guide that may be trusted. But before conscience can determine,
the state of the question is supposed to be completely known. In questions of law, or of fact,
conscience is very often confounded with opinion. No man's conscience can tell him the right
of another man[719]; they must be known by rational investigation or historical enquiry. Opinion,
which he that holds it may call his conscience, may teach some men that religion would be promoted,
and quiet preserved, by granting to the people universally the choice of their ministers. But
it is a conscience very ill informed that violates the rights of one man, for the convenience
of another. Religion cannot be promoted by injustice: and it was never yet found that a popular
election was very quietly transacted.

'That justice would be violated by transferring to the people the right of patronage, is apparent
to all who know whence that right had its original. The right of patronage was not at first
a privilege torn by power from unresisting poverty. It is not an authority at first usurped
in times of ignorance, and established only by succession and by precedents. It is not a grant
capriciously made from a higher tyrant to a lower. It is a right dearly purchased by the first
possessors, and justly inherited by those that succeeded them. When Christianity was established
in this island, a regular mode of publick worship was prescribed. Publick worship requires
a publick place; and the proprietors of lands, as they were converted, built churches for their
families and their vassals. For the maintenance of ministers, they settled a certain portion
of their lands; and a district, through which each minister was required to extend his care,
was, by that circumscription, constituted a parish. This is a position so generally received
in England, that the extent of a manor and of a parish are regularly received for each other.
The churches which the proprietors of lands had thus built and thus endowed, they justly thought
themselves entitled to provide with ministers; and where the episcopal government prevails,
the Bishop has no power to reject a man nominated by the patron, but for some crime that might
exclude him from the priesthood. For the endowment of the church being the gift of the landlord,
he was consequently at liberty to give it according to his choice, to any man capable of performing
the holy offices. The people did not choose him, because the people did not pay him.

'We hear it sometimes urged, that this original right is passed out of memory, and is obliterated
and obscured by many translations of property and changes of government; that scarce any church
is now in the hands of the heirs of the builders; and that the present persons have entered
subsequently upon the pretended rights by a thousand accidental and unknown causes. Much of
this, perhaps, is true. But how is the right of patronage extinguished? If the right followed
the lands, it is possessed by the same equity by which the lands are possessed. It is, in effect,
part of the manor, and protected by the same laws with every other privilege. Let us suppose
an estate forfeited by treason, and granted by the Crown to a new family. With the lands were
forfeited all the rights appendant to those lands; by the same power that grants the lands,
the rights also are granted. The right lost to the patron falls not to the people, but is either
retained by the Crown, or what to the people is the same thing, is by the Crown given away.
Let it change hands ever so often, it is possessed by him that receives it with the same right
as it was conveyed. It may, indeed, like all our possessions, be forcibly seized or fraudulently
obtained. But no injury is still done to the people; for what they never had, they have never
lost. Caius may usurp the right of Titius; but neither Caius nor Titius injure the people;
and no man's conscience, however tender or however active, can prompt him to restore what may
be proved to have been never taken away. Supposing, what I think cannot be proved, that a popular
election of ministers were to be desired, our desires are not the measure of equity. It were
to be desired that power should be only in the hands of the merciful, and riches in the possession
of the generous; but the law must leave both riches and power where it finds them: and must
often leave riches with the covetous, and power with the cruel. Convenience may be a rule in
little things, where no other rule has been established. But as the great end of government
is to give every man his own, no inconvenience is greater than that of making right uncertain.
Nor is any man more an enemy to publick peace, than he who fills weak heads with imaginary
claims, and breaks the series of civil subordination, by inciting the lower classes of mankind
to encroach upon the higher.

'Having thus shown that the right of patronage, being originally purchased, may be legally
transferred, and that it is now in the hands of lawful possessors, at least as certainly as
any other right;--we have left to the advocates of the people no other plea than that of convenience.
Let us, therefore, now consider what the people would really gain by a general abolition of
the right of patronage. What is most to be desired by such a change is, that the country should
be supplied with better ministers. But why should we suppose that the parish will make a wiser
choice than the patron? If we suppose mankind actuated by interest, the patron is more likely
to choose with caution, because he will suffer more by choosing wrong. By the deficiencies
of his minister, or by his vices, he is equally offended with the rest of the congregation;
but he will have this reason more to lament them, that they will be imputed to his absurdity
or corruption. The qualifications of a minister are well known to be learning and piety. Of
his learning the patron is probably the only judge in the parish; and of his piety not less
a judge than others; and is more likely to enquire minutely and diligently before he gives
a presentation, than one of the parochial rabble, who can give nothing but a vote. It may be
urged, that though the parish might not choose better ministers, they would at least choose
ministers whom they like better, and who would therefore officiate with greater efficacy. That
ignorance and perverseness should always obtain what they like, was never considered as the
end of government; of which it is the great and standing benefit, that the wise see for the
simple, and the regular act for the capricious. But that this argument supposes the people
capable of judging, and resolute to act according to their best judgments, though this be sufficiently
absurd, it is not all its absurdity. It supposes not only wisdom, but unanimity in those, who
upon no other occasions are unanimous or wise. If by some strange concurrence all the voices
of a parish should unite in the choice of any single man, though I could not charge the patron
with injustice for presenting a minister, I should censure him as unkind and injudicious. But,
it is evident, that as in all other popular elections there will be contrariety of judgment
and acrimony of passion, a parish upon every vacancy would break into factions, and the contest
for the choice of a minister would set neighbours at variance, and bring discord into families.
The minister would be taught all the arts of a candidate, would flatter some, and bribe others;
and the electors, as in all other cases, would call for holidays and ale, and break the heads
of each other during the jollity of the canvas. The time must, however, come at last, when
one of the factions must prevail, and one of the ministers get possession of the church. On
what terms does he enter upon his ministry but those of enmity with half his parish? By what
prudence or what diligence can he hope to conciliate the affections of that party by whose
defeat he has obtained his living? Every man who voted against him will enter the church with
hanging head and downcast eyes, afraid to encounter that neighbour by whose vote and influence
he has been overpowered. He will hate his neighbour for opposing him, and his minister for
having prospered by the opposition; and as he will never see him but with pain, he will never
see him but with hatred. Of a minister presented by the patron, the parish has seldom any thing
worse to say than that they do not know him. Of a minister chosen by a popular contest, all
those who do not favour him, have nursed up in their bosoms principles of hatred and reasons
of rejection. Anger is excited principally by pride. The pride of a common man is very little
exasperated by the supposed usurpation of an acknowledged superiour. He bears only his little
share of a general evil, and suffers in common with the whole parish; but when the contest
is between equals, the defeat has many aggravations; and he that is defeated by his next neighbour,
is seldom satisfied without some revenge; and it is hard to say what bitterness of malignity
would prevail in a parish where these elections should happen to be frequent, and the enmity
of opposition should be re-kindled before it had cooled.'

Though I present to my readers Dr. Johnson's masterly thoughts on the subject, I think it proper
to declare, that notwithstanding I am myself a lay patron, I do not entirely subscribe to his
opinion.

Hawkesworth's compilation of the voyages to the South Sea being mentioned;--JOHNSON. 'Sir,
if you talk of it as a subject of commerce, it will be gainful[725]; if as a book that is to
increase human knowledge, I believe there will not be much of that. Hawkesworth can tell only
what the voyagers have told him; and they have found very little, only one new animal, I think.'
BOSWELL. 'But many insects, Sir.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, as to insects, Ray reckons of British
insects twenty thousand species. They might have staid at home and discovered enough in that way.'

Talking of birds, I mentioned Mr. Daines Barrington's ingenious Essay against the received
notion of their migration. JOHNSON. 'I think we have as good evidence for the migration of
woodcocks as can be desired. We find they disappear at a certain time of the year, and appear
again at a certain time of the year; and some of them, when weary in their flight, have been
known to alight on the rigging of ships far out at sea.' One of the company observed, that
there had been instances of some of them found in summer in Essex. JOHNSON. 'Sir, that strengthens
our argument. Exceptio probat regulam. Some being found shews, that, if all remained, many
would be found. A few sick or lame ones may be found.' GOLDSMITH. 'Yet we see if you take away
a bird's nest with the eggs in it, she will make a slighter nest and lay again.' JOHNSON. 'Sir,
that is because at first she has full time and makes her nest deliberately. In the case you
mention she is pressed to lay, and must therefore make her nest quickly, and consequently it
will be slight.' GOLDSMITH. 'The identification of birds is what is least known in natural
history, though one of the most curious things in it.'

I introduced the subject of toleration[729]. TOPLADY. 'Does not their invocation of saints
suppose omnipresence in the saints?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; it supposes only pluri-presence, and
when spirits are divested of matter, it seems probable that they should see with more extent
than when in an embodied state. There is, therefore, no approach to an invasion of any of the
divine attributes, in the invocation of saints. But I think it is will-worship, and presumption.

'SIR,

'I return you my sincere thanks for your additions to my Dictionary; but the new edition has
been published some time, and therefore I cannot now make use of them. Whether I shall ever
revise it more, I know not. If many readers had been as judicious, as diligent, and as communicative
as yourself, my work had been better. The world must at present take it as it is. I am, Sir,

'Your most obliged

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'May 8, 1773.'

On Sunday, May 8[756], I dined with Johnson at Mr. Langton's[757] with Dr. Beattie and some
other company. He descanted on the subject of Literary Property. 'There seems (said he,) to
be in authours a stronger right of property than that by occupancy; a metaphysical[758] right,
a right, as it were, of creation, which should from its nature be perpetual; but the consent
of nations is against it, and indeed reason and the interests of learning are against it; for
were it to be perpetual, no book, however useful, could be universally diffused amongst mankind,
should the proprietor take it into his head to restrain its circulation. No book could have
the advantage of being edited with notes, however necessary to its elucidation, should the
proprietor perversely oppose it. For the general good of the world, therefore, whatever valuable
work has once been created by an authour, and issued out by him, should be understood as no
longer in his power, but as belonging to the publick; at the same time the authour is entitled
to an adequate reward. This he should have by an exclusive right to his work for a considerable
number of years[759].'

He attacked Lord Monboddo's strange speculation on the primitive state of human nature[760];
observing, 'Sir, it is all conjecture about a thing useless, even were it known to be true.
Knowledge of all kinds is good.

He records of himself this year, 'Between Easter and Whitsuntide, having always considered
that time as propitious to study, I attempted to learn the Low Dutch language[768].' It is
to be observed, that he here admits an opinion of the human mind being influenced by seasons,
which he ridicules in his writings[769]. His progress, he says, was interrupted by a fever,
'which, by the imprudent use of a small print, left an inflammation in his useful eye[770].'
We cannot but admire his spirit when we know, that amidst a complication of bodily and mental
distress, he was still animated with the desire of intellectual improvement[771]. Various notes
of his studies appear on different days, in his manuscript diary of this year, such as,

'Inchoavi lectionem Pentateuchi--Finivi lectionem Conf. Fab. Burdonum[772].--Legi primum actum
Troadum.--Legi Dissertationem Clerici postremam de Pent.--2 of Clark's Sermons.--L. Appolonii
pugnam Betriciam.--L. centum versus Homeri.'

Let this serve as a specimen of what accessions of literature he was perpetually infusing into
his mind, while he charged himself with idleness.

This year died Mrs. Salusbury, (mother of Mrs. Thrale,) a lady whom he appears to have esteemed
much, and whose memory he honoured with an Epitaph[773].

In a letter from Edinburgh, dated the 29th of May, I pressed him to persevere in his resolution
to make this year the projected visit to the Hebrides, of which he and I had talked for many
years, and which I was confident would afford us much entertainment.

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'When your letter came to me, I was so darkened by an inflammation in my eye, that I could
not for some time read it. I can now write without trouble, and can read large prints. My eye
is gradually growing stronger; and I hope will be able to take some delight in the survey of
a Caledonian loch.

'Chambers is going a Judge, with six thousand a year, to Bengal[774]. He and I shall come down
together as far as Newcastle, and thence I shall easily get to Edinburgh. Let me know the exact
time when your Courts intermit. I must conform a little to Chambers's occasions, and he must
conform a little to mine. The time which you shall fix, must be the common point to which we
will come as near as we can. Except this eye, I am very well.

'Beattie is so caressed, and invited, and treated, and liked, and flattered, by the great,
that I can see nothing of him. I am in great hope that he will be well provided for, and then
we will live upon him at the Marischal College, without pity or modesty[775].

'----[776] left the town without taking leave of me, and is gone in deep dudgeon to ----[777].
Is not this very childish? Where is now my legacy[778]?

'I hope your dear lady and her dear baby are both well. I shall see them too when I come; and
I have that opinion of your choice, as to suspect that when I have seen Mrs. Boswell, I shall
be less willing to go away. Chambers is now at Oxford.'

I again wrote to him, informing him that the Court of Session rose on the twelfth of August,
hoping to see him before that time, and expressing perhaps in too extravagant terms, my admiration
of him, and my expectation of pleasure from our intended tour. JOHNSON.'

'August 3, 1773.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'Not being at Mr. Thrale's when your letter came, I had written the enclosed paper and sealed
it; bringing it hither for a frank, I found yours. If any thing could repress my ardour, it
would be such a letter as yours. To disappoint a friend is unpleasing; and he that forms expectations
like yours, must be disappointed. Think only when you see me, that you see a man who loves
you, and is proud and glad that you love him.

'I am, Sir, 'Your most affectionate 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'August 3, 1773.'

TO THE SAME. 'Newcastle, Aug. 11, 1771. JOHNSON.'

'My compliments to your lady.'

TO THE SAME.

He came by the way of Berwick upon Tweed to Edinburgh, where he remained a few days, and then
went by St. Andrew's, Aberdeen, Inverness, and Fort Augustus, to the Hebrides, to visit which
was the principal object he had in view. He visited the isles of Sky, Rasay, Col, Mull, Inchkenneth,
and Icolmkill. He travelled through Argyleshire by Inverary, and from thence by Lochlomond
and Dumbarton to Glasgow, then by Loudon to Auchinleck in Ayrshire, the seat of my family,
and then by Hamilton, back to Edinburgh, where he again spent some time. He thus saw the four
Universities of Scotland[782], its three principal cities, and as much of the Highland and
insular life as was sufficient for his philosophical contemplation. I had the pleasure of accompanying
him during the whole of this journey. He was respectfully entertained by the great, the learned,
and the elegant, wherever he went; nor was he less delighted with the hospitality which he
experienced in humbler life[783].

His various adventures, and the force and vivacity of his mind, as exercised during this peregrination,
upon innumerable topicks, have been faithfully, and to the best of my abilities, displayed
in my Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, to which, as the publick has been pleased to honour
it by a very extensive circulation[784], I beg leave to refer, as to a separate and remarkable
portion of his life[785], which may be there seen in detail, and which exhibits as striking
a view of his powers in conversation, as his works do of his excellence in writing. Nor can
I deny to myself the very flattering gratification of inserting here the character which my
friend Mr. Courtenay has been pleased to give of that work:

'With Reynolds' pencil, vivid, bold, and true, So fervent Boswell gives him to our view: In
every trait we see his mind expand; The master rises by the pupil's hand; We love the writer,
praise his happy vein, Grac'd with the naivete of the sage Montaigne. Hence not alone are brighter
parts display'd, But e'en the specks of character pourtray'd: We see the Rambler with fastidious
smile Mark the lone tree, and note the heath-clad isle; But when th' heroick tale of Flora's[786]
charms, Deck'd in a kilt, he wields a chieftain's arms: The tuneful piper sounds a martial
strain, And Samuel sings, "The King shall have his ain."'

During his stay at Edinburgh, after his return from the Hebrides, he was at great pains to
obtain information concerning Scotland; and it will appear from his subsequent letters, that
he was not less solicitous for intelligence on this subject after his return to London.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I came home last night, without any incommodity, danger, or weariness, and am ready to begin
a new journey. I shall go to Oxford on Monday[787]. I know Mrs. Boswell wished me well to go[788];
her wishes have not been disappointed. Mrs. Williams has received Sir A's[789] letter.

'Make my compliments to all those to whom my compliments may be welcome.

'Let the box[790] be sent as soon as it can, and let me know when to expect it.

'Enquire, if you can, the order of the Clans: Macdonald is first, Maclean second; further I
cannot go. Quicken Dr. Webster[791].

'I am, Sir, 'Yours affectionately, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Nov. 27, 1773.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Dec. 2, 1773.

'You shall have what information I can procure as to the order of the Clans. A gentleman of
the name of Grant tells me, that there is no settled order among them; and he says, that the
Macdonalds were not placed upon the right of the army at Culloden[792]; the Stuarts were. I
shall, however, examine witnesses of every name that I can find here. Dr. Webster shall be
quickened too. I like your little memorandums; they are symptoms of your being in earnest with
your book of northern travels.

'Your box shall be sent next week by sea. You will find in it some pieces of the broom bush,
which you saw growing on the old castle of Auchinleck. The wood has a curious appearance when
sawn across. You may either have a little writing-stand made of it, or get it formed into boards
for a treatise on witchcraft, by way of a suitable binding.'

       *       *       *      *      *

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON. 'Edinburgh, Dec. 18, 1773.

       *       *       *       *       *

'You promised me an inscription for a print to be taken from an historical picture of Mary
Queen of Scots being forced to resign her crown, which Mr. Hamilton at Rome has painted for
me. The two following have been sent to me:

"Maria Scotorum Regina meliori seculo digna, jus regiitm civibus seditiosis invita resignat."

"Cives seditiosi Mariam Scotorum Reginam sese muneri abdicare invitam cogunt."

'Be so good as to read the passage in Robertson, and see if you cannot give me a better inscription.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'My operations have been hindered by a cough; at least I flatter myself, that if my cough had
not come, I should have been further advanced. But I have had no intelligence from Dr. W----,
[Webster,] nor from the Excise-office, nor from you. No account of the little borough[796].
Nothing of the Erse language. I have yet heard nothing of my box.

'You must make haste and gather me all you can, and do it quickly, or I will and shall do without
it.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, and tell her that I do not love her the less for wishing
me away. I gave her trouble enough, and shall be glad, in recompense, to give her any pleasure.

'I would send some porter into the Hebrides, if I knew which way it could be got to my kind
friends there. Enquire, and let me know.

'Make my compliments to all the Doctors of Edinburgh, and to all my friends, from one end of
Scotland to the other.

'Write to me, and send me what intelligence you can: and if any thing is too bulky for the
post, let me have it by the carrier. I do not like trusting winds and waves.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most, &c. 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 29, 1774.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'In a day or two after I had written the last discontented letter, I received my box, which
was very welcome. But still I must entreat you to hasten Dr. Webster, and continue to pick
up what you can that may be useful.

'Mr. Oglethorpe was with me this morning, you know his errand. He was not unwelcome.

'Tell Mrs. Boswell that my good intentions towards her still continue I should be glad to do
any thing that would either benefit or please her.

'Chambers is not yet gone, but so hurried, or so negligent, or so proud, that I rarely see
him. I have, indeed, for some weeks past, been very ill of a cold and cough, and have been
at Mrs. Thrale's, that I might be taken care of. I am much better: novae redeunt in praelia
vires[797]; but I am yet tender, and easily disordered. How happy it was that neither of us
were ill in the Hebrides.

'The question of Literary Property is this day before the Lords[798]. Murphy[799] drew up the
Appellants' case, that is, the plea against the perpetual right. I have not seen it, nor heard
the decision. I would not have the right perpetual.

'I will write to you as any thing occurs, and do you send me something about my Scottish friends.
I have very great kindness for them. Let me know likewise how fees come in, and when we are
to see you.

'I am. Sir, Yours affectionately, SAM. JOHNSON. London, Feb. 7, 1774.

He at this time wrote the following letters to Mr. Steevens, his able associate in editing
Shakspeare:

To George Steevens, Esq., in Hampstead.

'Sir,

'If I am asked when I have seen Mr. Steevens, you know what answer I must give; if I am asked
when I shall see him, I wish you would tell me what to say.

'If you have Lesley's History of Scotland, or any other book about Scotland, except Boetius
and Buchanan, it will be a kindness if you send them to, Sir,

'Your humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON. 'Feb. 7, 1774.'

To the same.

'Sir,

'We are thinking to augment our club, and I am desirous of nominating you, if you care to stand
the ballot, and can attend on Friday nights at least twice in five weeks: less than this is
too little, and rather more will be expected. Be pleased to let me know before Friday.

'I am, Sir, 'Your most, &c., 'SAM. JOHNSON. 'Feb. 21, 1774.

To the same.

'Sir,

'Last night you became a member of the club; if you call on me on Friday, I will introduce
you. A gentleman, proposed after you, was rejected.

'I thank you for Neander, but wish he were not so fine.[800] I will take care of him.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 5, 1774.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Dr. Webster's informations were much less exact and much less determinate than I expected:
they are, indeed, much less positive than, if he can trust his own book[801] which he laid
before me, he is able to give. But I believe it will always be found, that he who calls much
for information will advance his work but slowly.

'I am, however, obliged to you, dear Sir, for your endeavours to help me, and hope, that between
us something will some time be done, if not on this, on some occasion.

'Chambers is either married, or almost married, to Miss Wilton, a girl of sixteen, exquisitely
beautiful, whom he has, with his lawyer's tongue, persuaded to take her chance with him in
the East.

'We have added to the club[802], Charles Fox[803], Sir Charles Bunbury [804], Dr. Fordyce[805],
and Mr. Steevens[806].

'Return my thanks to Dr. Webster. Tell Dr. Robertson I have not much to reply to his censure
of my negligence; and tell Dr. Blair, that since he has written hither what I said to him,
we must now consider ourselves as even, forgive one another, and begin again[807]. I care not
how soon, for he is a very pleasing man. Pay my compliments to all my friends, and remind Lord
Elibank of his promise to give me all his works.

'I hope Mrs. Boswell and little Miss are well.--When shall I see them again? She is a sweet
lady, only she was so glad to see me go, that I have almost a mind to come again, that she
may again have the same pleasure.

'Enquire if it be practicable to send a small present of a cask of porter to Dunvegan, Rasay,
and Col. I would not wish to be thought forgetful of civilities. I stated to him on the one
hand some pecuniary embarrassments, which, together with my wife's situation at that time,
made me hesitate; and, on the other, the pleasure and improvement which my annual visit to
the metropolis always afforded me; and particularly mentioned a peculiar satisfaction which
I experienced in celebrating the festival of Easter in St. Paul's cathedral; that to my fancy
it appeared like going up to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover; and that the strong devotion
which I felt on that occasion diffused its influence on my mind through the rest of the year[808].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ. [Not dated[809], but written about the 15th of March.]

'DEAR SIR,

'I am ashamed to think that since I received your letter I have passed so many days without
answering it.

'I think there is no great difficulty in resolving your doubts. The reasons for which you are
inclined to visit London, are, I think, not of sufficient strength to answer the objections.
That you should delight to come once a year to the fountain of intelligence and pleasure, is
very natural; but both information and pleasure must be regulated by propriety. Pleasure, which
cannot be obtained but by unseasonable or unsuitable expence, must always end in pain; and
pleasure, which must be enjoyed at the expence of another's pain, can never be such as a worthy
mind can fully delight in.

'What improvement you might gain by coming to London, you may easily supply, or easily compensate,
by enjoining yourself some particular study at home, or opening some new avenue to information.
Edinburgh is not yet exhausted; and I am sure you will find no pleasure here which can deserve
either that you should anticipate any part of your future fortune, or that you should condemn
yourself and your lady to penurious frugality for the rest of the year.

'I need not tell you what regard you owe to Mrs. Boswell's entreaties; or how much you ought
to study the happiness of her who studies yours with so much diligence, and of whose kindness
you enjoy such good effects. Life cannot subsist in society but by reciprocal concessions.
She permitted you to ramble last year, you must permit her now to keep you at home.

'Your last reason is so serious, that I am unwilling to oppose it. Yet you must remember, that
your image of worshipping once a year in a certain place, in imitation of the Jews, is but
a comparison; and simile non est idem; if the annual resort to Jerusalem was a duty to the
Jews, it was a duty because it was commanded; and you have no such command, therefore no such
duty. It may be dangerous to receive too readily, and indulge too fondly, opinions, from which,
perhaps, no pious mind is wholly disengaged, of local sanctity and local devotion. You know
what strange effects they have produced over a great part of the Christian world. I am now
writing, and you, when you read this, are reading under the Eye of Omnipresence.

'To what degree fancy is to be admitted into religious offices, it would require much deliberation
to determine. I am far from intending totally to exclude it. Fancy is a faculty bestowed by
our Creator, and it is reasonable that all His gifts should be used to His glory, that all
our faculties should co-operate in His worship; but they are to co-operate according to the
will of Him that gave them, according to the order which His wisdom has established. As ceremonies
prudential or convenient are less obligatory than positive ordinances, as bodily worship is
only the token to others or ourselves of mental adoration, so Fancy is always to act in subordination
to Reason. We may take Fancy for a companion, but must follow Reason as our guide. We may allow
Fancy to suggest certain ideas in certain places; but Reason must always be heard, when she
tells us, that those ideas and those places have no natural or necessary relation. When we
enter a church we habitually recall to mind the duty of adoration, but we must not omit adoration
for want of a temple; because we know, and ought to remember, that the Universal Lord is every
where present; and that, therefore, to come to Jona[810], or to Jerusalem, though it may be
useful, cannot be necessary.

'Thus I have answered your letter, and have not answered it negligently. I love you too well
to be careless when you are serious.

'I think I shall be very diligent next week about our travels, which I have too long neglected.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Compliments to Madam and Miss.'

To The Same.

'DEAR SIR,

'The lady who delivers this has a lawsuit, in which she desires to make use of your skill and
eloquence, and she seems to think that she shall have something more of both for a recommendation
from me; which, though I know how little you want any external incitement to your duty, I could
not refuse her, because I know that at least it will not hurt her, to tell you that I wish
her well.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'May 10, 1774.'

'MR, BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, May 12, 1774.

'Lord Hailes has begged of me to offer you his best respects, and to transmit to you specimens
of Annals of Scotland, from the Accession of Malcolm Kenmore to the Death of James V,' in drawing
up which, his Lordship has been engaged for some time. His Lordship writes to me thus: "If
I could procure Dr. Johnson's criticisms, they would be of great use to me in the prosecution
of my work, as they would be judicious and true. I have no right to ask that favour of him.
If you could, it would highly oblige me."

'Dr. Blair requests you may be assured that he did not write to London what you said to him,
and that neither by word nor letter has he made the least complaint of you; but, on the contrary,
has a high respect for you, and loves you much more since he saw you in Scotland. It would
both divert and please you to see his eagerness about this matter.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'Streatham, June 21, 1774.

'DEAR SIR,

'Yesterday I put the first sheets of the Journey to the Hebrides to the press. I have endeavoured
to do you some justice in the first paragraph[811]. It will be one volume in octavo, not thick.

'It will be proper to make some presents in Scotland. You shall tell me to whom I shall give;
and I have stipulated twenty-five for you to give in your own name[812]. Some will take the
present better from me, others better from you. In this, you who are to live in the place ought
to direct. Consider it. Whatever you can get for my purpose send me; and make my compliments
to your lady and both the young ones.

'I am, Sir, your, &c., 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, June 24, 1774.

'You do not acknowledge the receipt of the various packets which I have sent to you. Neither
can I prevail with you to answer my letters, though you honour me with returns[813]. You have
said nothing to me about poor Goldsmith[814], nothing about Langton[815].

'I have received for you, from the Society for propagating Christian Knowledge in Scotland[816],
the following Erse books:--The New Testament; Baxter's Call; The Confession of Faith of the
Assembly of Divines at Westminster; The Mother's Catechism; A Gaelick and English Vocabulary[817].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I wish you could have looked over my book before the printer, but it could not easily be.
I suspect some mistakes; but as I deal, perhaps, more in notions than in facts, the matter
is not great, and the second edition will be mended, if any such there be. The press will go
on slowly for a time, because I am going into Wales to-morrow.

'I should be very sorry if I appeared to treat such a character as Lord Hailes otherwise than
with high respect. I return the sheets[818], to which I have done what mischief I could; and
finding it so little, thought not much of sending them. The narrative is clear, lively, and short.

'I have done worse to Lord Hailes than by neglecting his sheets: I have run him in debt. Dr.
Horne, the President of Magdalen College in Oxford, wrote to me about three months ago, that
he purposed to reprint Walton's Lives, and desired me to contribute to the work: my answer
was, that Lord Hailes intended the same publication; and Dr. Home has resigned it to him[819].
His Lordship must now think seriously about it.

'Of poor dear Dr. Goldsmith there is little to be told, more than the papers have made publick.
He died of a fever, made, I am afraid, more violent by uneasiness of mind. His debts began
to be heavy, and all his resources were exhausted. Sir Joshua[820] is of opinion that he owed
not less than two thousand pounds[821]. Was ever poet so trusted before?

'You may, if you please, put the inscription thus:--

"Maria Scotorum Regina nata 15--, a suis in exilium acta 15--, ab hospita neci data 15--."
You must find the years.

'Of your second daughter you certainly gave the account yourself, though you have forgotten
it. While Mrs. Boswell is well, never doubt of a boy. Mrs. Thrale brought, I think, five girls
running, but while I was with you she had a boy.

'I am obliged to you for all your pamphlets, and of the last I hope to make some use. I made
some of the former.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most affectionate servant, 'SAM.

'I have never recovered from the last dreadful illness[824], but flatter myself that I grow
gradually better; much, however, yet remains to mend. [Greek: Kurie eleaeson][825].

'Llewenny[829], in Denbighshire, Aug. 16, 1774.

'DEAR SIR,

'Mr. Thrale's affairs have kept him here a great while, nor do I know exactly when we shall
come hence. I have sent you a bill upon Mr. Strahan.

'I have made nothing of the Ipecacuanha, but have taken abundance of pills, and hope that they
have done me good.

'Wales, so far as I have yet seen of it, is a very beautiful and rich country, all enclosed,
and planted. Denbigh is not a mean town. Make my compliments to all my friends, and tell Frank
I hope he remembers my advice. When his money is out, let him have more.

'I am, Sir, 'Your humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Aug. 30, 1774.

'You have given me an inscription for a portrait of Mary Queen of Scots, in which you, in a
short and striking manner, point out her hard fate. But you will be pleased to keep in mind,
that my picture is a representation of a particular scene in her history; her being forced
to resign her crown, while she was imprisoned in the castle of Lochlevin. I must, therefore,
beg that you will be kind enough to give me an inscription suited to that particular scene;
or determine which of the two formerly transmitted to you is the best; and, at any rate, favour
me with an English translation. It will be doubly kind if you comply with my request speedily.

'Your critical notes on the specimen of Lord Hailes's Annals of Scotland are excellent, I agreed
with you in every one of them. He himself objected only to the alteration of free to brave,
in the passage where he says that Edward "departed with the glory due to the conquerour of
a free people." He says, "to call the Scots brave would only add to the glory of their conquerour."
You will make allowance for the national zeal of our annalist. I now send a few more leaves
of the Annals, which I hope you will peruse, and return with observations, as you did upon
the former occasion. Lord Hailes writes to me thus:--"Mr. Boswell will be pleased to express
the grateful sense which Sir David Dalrymple[830] has of Dr. Johnson's attention to his little
specimen. The further specimen will show, that

"Even in an Edward he can see desert[831]."

'It gives me much pleasure to hear that a republication of Isaac Walton's Lives is intended.
You have been in a mistake in thinking that Lord Hailes had it in view. I remember one morning[832],
while he sat with you in my house, he said, that there should be a new edition of Walton's
Lives; and you said that "they should be benoted a little." This was all that passed on that
subject. You must, therefore, inform Dr. Horne, that he may resume his plan, I enclose a note
concerning it; and if Dr. Horne will write to me, all the attention that I can give shall be
cheerfully bestowed, upon what I think a pious work, the preservation and elucidation of Walton,
by whose writings I have been most pleasingly edified.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Sept. 16, 1774.

'Wales has probably detained you longer than I supposed. You will have become quite a mountaineer,
by visiting Scotland one year and Wales another. You must next go to Switzerland. Cambria will
complain, if you do not honour her also with some remarks. And I find concessere columnae[833],
the booksellers expect another book. I am impatient to see your Tour to Scotland and the Hebrides[834].
Might you not send me a copy by the post as soon as it is printed off?'

        *       *       *       *       *

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Yesterday I returned from my Welch journey, I was sorry to leave my book suspended so long;
but having an opportunity of seeing, with so much convenience, a new part of the island, I
could not reject it. I have been in five of the six counties of North Wales; and have seen
St. Asaph and Bangor, the two seats of their Bishops; have been upon Penmanmaur[835] and Snowden[836],
and passed over into Anglesea. But Wales is so little different from England, that it offers
nothing to the speculation of the traveller.

'When I came home, I found several of your papers, with some pages of Lord Hailes's Annals,
which I will consider. I am in haste to give you some account of myself, lest you should suspect
me of negligence in the pressing business which I find recommended to my care, and which I
knew nothing of till now, when all care is vain[837].

'In the distribution of my books I purpose to follow your advice, adding such as shall occur
to me. I am not pleased with your notes of remembrance added to your names, for I hope I shall
not easily forget them.

'I have received four Erse books, without any direction, and suspect that they are intended
for the Oxford library. If that is the intention, I think it will be proper to add the metrical
psalms, and whatever else is printed in Erse, that the present may be complete. The donor's
name should be told.

'I wish you could have read the book before it was printed, but our distance does not easily
permit it.

'I am sorry Lord Hailes does not intend to publish Walton; I am afraid it will not be done
so well, if it be done at all.

'I purpose now to drive the book forward. Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, and let me hear
often from you.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Octob. 1, 1774.'

This tour to Wales, which was made in company with Mr. and Mrs. Thrale, though it no doubt
contributed to his health and amusement, did not give an occasion to such a discursive exercise
of his mind as our tour to the Hebrides. I do not find that he kept any journal or notes of
what he saw there[838]. All that I heard him say of it was, that 'instead of bleak and barren
mountains, there were green and fertile ones; and that one of the castles in Wales would contain
all the castles that he had seen in Scotland.'

Parliament having been dissolved[839], and his friend Mr. Thrale, who was a steady supporter
of government, having again to encounter the storm of a contested election, he wrote a short
political pamphlet, entitled The Patriot, addressed to the electors of Great-Britain; a title
which, to factious men, who consider a patriot only as an opposer of the measures of government,
will appear strangely misapplied. It was, however, written with energetick vivacity; and, except
those passages in which it endeavours to vindicate the glaring outrage of the House of Commons
in the case of the Middlesex election, and to justify the attempt to reduce our fellow-subjects
in America to unconditional submission, it contained an admirable display of the properties
of a real patriot, in the original and genuine sense;--a sincere, steady, rational, and unbiassed
friend to the interests and prosperity of his King and country. It must be acknowledged, however,
that both in this and his two former pamphlets, there was, amidst many powerful arguments,
not only a considerable portion of sophistry, but a contemptuous ridicule of his opponents,
which was very provoking.

'To MR. PERKINS[840].

'SIR,

'You may do me a very great favour. Mrs. Williams, a gentlewoman whom you may have seen at
Mr. Thrale's, is a petitioner for Mr. Hetherington's charity: petitions are this day issued
at Christ's Hospital.

'I am a bad manager of business in a crowd; and if I should send a mean man, he may be put
away without his errand. I must therefore intreat that you will go, and ask for a petition
for Anna Williams, whose paper of enquiries was delivered with answers at the counting-house
of the hospital on Thursday the 20th. My servant will attend you thither, and bring the petition
home when you have it.

'The petition, which they are to give us, is a form which they deliver to every petitioner,
and which the petitioner is afterwards to fill up, and return to them again. This we must have,
or we cannot proceed according to their directions. You need, I believe, only ask for a petition;
if they enquire for whom you ask, you can tell them.

'I beg pardon for giving you this trouble; but it is a matter of great importance.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM JOHNSON.'

'October 25, 1774.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'There has appeared lately in the papers an account of a boat overset between Mull and Ulva,
in which many passengers were lost, and among them Maclean of Col. We, you know, were once
drowned[841]; I hope, therefore, that the story is either wantonly or erroneously told. Pray
satisfy me by the next post.

'I have printed two hundred and forty pages. I am able to do nothing much worth doing to dear
Lord Hailes's book. I will, however, send back the sheets; and hope, by degrees, to answer
all your reasonable expectations.

'Mr. Thrale has happily surmounted a very violent and acrimonious opposition[842]; but all
joys have their abatement: Mrs. Thrale has fallen from her horse, and hurt herself very much.
The rest of our friends, I believe, are well. My compliments to Mrs. Boswell.

'I am, Sir,

Your most affectionate servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, October. 27, 1774.'

This letter, which shows his tender concern for an amiable young gentleman to whom he had been
very much obliged in the Hebrides, I have inserted according to its date, though before receiving
it I had informed him of the melancholy event that the young Laird of Col was unfortunately
drowned[843].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Last night I corrected the last page of our Journey to the Hebrides. The printer has detained
it all this time, for I had, before I went into Wales, written all except two sheets. The Patriot
was called for by my political friends on Friday, was written on Saturday, and I have heard
little of it. So vague are conjectures at a distance[844]. As soon as I can, I will take care
that copies be sent to you, for I would wish that they might be given before they are bought;
but I am afraid that Mr. Strahan will send to you and to the booksellers at the same time.
Trade is as diligent as courtesy. I have mentioned all that you recommended. Pray make my compliments
to Mrs. Boswell and the younglings. The club has, I think, not yet met.

'Tell me, and tell me honestly, what you think and what others say of our travels. Shall we
touch the continent[845]?

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. It is remarkable, that he was very fond of the precision which calculation produces[846].
Thus we find in one of his manuscript diaries, '12 pages in 4to. Gr. Test, and 30 pages in
Beza's folio, comprize the whole in 40 days.'

'DR. JOHNSON TO JOHN HOOLE, Esq.[847]

'DEAR SIR,

'I have returned your play[848], which you will find underscored with red, where there was
a word which I did not like. The red will be washed off with a little water.

'The plot is so well framed, the intricacy so artful, and the disentanglement so easy, the
suspense so affecting, and the passionate parts so properly interposed, that I have no doubt
of its success.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'December 19, 1774.'

1775: AETAT. 66.--The first effort of his pen in 1775 was, 'Proposals for publishing the Works
of Mrs. Charlotte Lennox[849],'[Dagger] in three volumes quarto. In his diary, January 2, I
find this entry: 'Wrote Charlotte's Proposals.' But, indeed, the internal evidence would have
been quite sufficient. Her claim to the favour of the public was thus enforced:--

'Most of the pieces, as they appeared singly, have been read with approbation, perhaps above
their merits, but of no great advantage to the writer. She hopes, therefore, that she shall
not be considered as too indulgent to vanity, or too studious of interest, if, from that labour
which has hitherto been chiefly gainful to others, she endeavours to obtain at last some profit
for herself and her children. She cannot decently enforce her claim by the praise of her own
performances; nor can she suppose, that, by the most artful and laboured address, any additional
notice could be procured to a publication, of which Her MAJESTY has condescended to be the
PATRONESS.'

He this year also wrote the Preface to Baretti's Easy Lessons in Italian and English[850].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You never did ask for a book by the post till now, and I did not think on it. You see now
it is done. I sent one to the King, and I hear he likes it[851].

'I shall send a parcel into Scotland for presents, and intend to give to many of my friends.
In your catalogue you left out Lord Auchinleck.

'Let me know, as fast as you read it, how you like it; and let me know if any mistake is committed,
or any thing important left out. I wish you could have seen the sheets. My compliments to Mrs.
Boswell, and to Veronica[852], and to all my friends.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'January 14, 1775.

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Jan. 19, 1775.

'Be pleased to accept of my best thanks for your Journey to the Hebrides, which came to me
by last night's post. I did really ask the favour twice; but you have been even with me by
granting it so speedily. Bis dat qui cito dat[853]. Though ill of a bad cold, you kept me up
the greatest part of the last night; for I did not stop till I had read every word of your
book. I looked back to our first talking of a visit a visit to the Hebrides, which was many
years ago, when sitting by ourselves in the Mitre tavern[854], in London, I think about witching
time o' night[855]; and then exulted in contemplating our scheme fulfilled, and a monumentum
perenne[856] of it erected by your superiour abilities. I shall only say, that your book has
afforded me a high gratification. I shall afterwards give you my thoughts on particular passages.
In the mean time, I hasten to tell you of your having mistaken two names, which you will correct
in London, as I shall do here, that the gentlemen who deserve the valuable compliments which
you have paid them, may enjoy their honours. In page 106, for Gordon read Murchison; and in
page 357, for Maclean read Macleod[857].

       *       *       *       *       *

'But I am now to apply to you for immediate aid in my profession, which you have never refused
to grant when I requested it. I enclose you a petition for Dr. Memis, a physician at Aberdeen,
in which Sir John Dalrymple has exerted his talents, and which I am to answer as Counsel for
the managers of the Royal Infirmary in that city. Mr. Jopp, the Provost, who delivered to you
your freedom[858], is one of my clients, and, as a citizen of Aberdeen, you will support him.

'The fact is shortly this. In a translation of the charter of the Infirmary from Latin into
English, made under the authority of the managers, the same phrase in the original is in one
place rendered Physician, but when applied to Dr. Memis is rendered Doctor of Medicine. Dr.
Memis complained of this before the translation was printed, but was not indulged with having
it altered; and he has brought an action for damages, on account of a supposed injury, as if
the designation given to him was an inferiour one, tending to make it be supposed he is not
a Physician, and, consequently, to hurt his practice. My father has dismissed the action as
groundless, and now he has appealed to the whole Court[859].'

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I long to hear how you like the book; it is, I think, much liked here. But Macpherson is very
furious[860]; can you give me any more intelligence about him, or his Fingal? Do what you can
and do it quickly. Is Lord Hailes on our side?

'Pray let me know what I owed you when I left you, that I may send it to you.

'I am going to write about the Americans[861]. If you have picked up any hints among your lawyers,
who are great masters of the law of nations, or if your own mind suggests any thing, let me
know. But mum, it is a secret.

'I will send your parcel of books as soon as I can; but I cannot do as I wish. However, you
find every thing mentioned in the book which you recommended.

'Langton is here; we are all that ever we were[862]. He is a worthy fellow, without malice,
though not without resentment.

'Poor Beauclerk is so ill, that his life is thought to be in danger[863]. Lady Di nurses him
with very great assiduity.

'Reynolds has taken too much to strong liquor[864], and seems to delight in his new character.

'This is all the news that I have; but as you love verses, I will send you a few which I made
upon Inchkenneth[865]; but remember the condition, you shall not show them, except to Lord
Hailes, whom I love better than any man whom I know so little. If he asks you to transcribe
them for him, you may do it, but I think he must promise not to let them be copied again, nor
to show them as mine.

'I have at last sent back Lord Hailes's sheets. I never think about returning them, because
I alter nothing. You will see that I might as well have kept them. However, I am ashamed of
my delay; and if I have the honour of receiving any more, promise punctually to return them
by the next post. Make my compliments to dear Mrs. Boswell, and to Miss Veronica.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Yours most faithfully,

'SAM. JOHNSON[866].'

'Jan. 21, 1775.

'MR, BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Jan. 27, 1775.

       *       *       *       *       *

'You rate our lawyers here too high, when you call them great masters of the law of nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

'As for myself, I am ashamed to say I have read little and thought little on the subject of
America. I will be much obliged to you, if you will direct me where I shall find the best information
of what is to be said on both sides. It is a subject vast in its present extent and future
consequences. The imperfect hints which now float in my mind, tend rather to the formation
of an opinion that our government has been precipitant and severe in the resolutions taken
against the Bostonians[867]. Well do you know that I have no kindness for that race. But nations,
or bodies of men, should, as well as individuals, have a fair trial, and not be condemned on
character alone. Have we not express contracts with our colonies, which afford a more certain
foundation of judgement, than general political speculations on the mutual rights of States
and their provinces or colonies? Pray let me know immediately what to read, and I shall diligently
endeavour to gather for you any thing that I can find. Is Burke's speech on American taxation
published by himself? Is it authentick? I remember to have heard you say, that you had never
considered East-Indian affairs; though, surely, they are of much importance to Great-Britain.
Under the recollection of this, I shelter myself from the reproach of ignorance about the Americans.
If you write upon the subject I shall certainly understand it. But, since you seem to expect
that I should know something of it, without your instruction, and that my own mind should suggest
something, I trust you will put me in the way.

       *       *       *       *       *

'What does Becket[868] mean by the Originals of Fingal and other poems of Ossian, which he
advertises to have lain in his shop?'

       *       *       *       *       *

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You sent me a case to consider, in which I have no facts but what are against us, nor any
principles on which to reason. It is vain to try to write thus without materials. The fact
seems to be against you; at least I cannot know nor say any thing to the contrary. I am glad
that you like the book so well. I hear no more of Macpherson. I shall long to know what Lord
Hailes says of it. Lend it him privately. I shall send the parcel as soon as I can. Make my
compliments to Mrs. Boswell.

'I am, Sir, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 28, 1775.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON. You may believe it gives me pain to hear your conduct represented
as unfavourable, while I can only deny what is said, on the ground that your character refutes
it, without having any information to oppose. Let me, I beg it of you, be furnished with a
sufficient answer to any calumny upon this occasion.

'Lord Hailes writes to me, (for we correspond more than we talk together,) "As to Fingal, I
see a controversy arising, and purpose to keep out of its way. There is no doubt that I might
mention some circumstances; but I do not choose to commit them to paper[869]." What his opinion
is, I do not know. He says, "I am singularly obliged to Dr. Johnson for his accurate and useful
criticisms. Had he given some strictures on the general plan of the work, it would have added
much to his favours." He is charmed with your verses on Inchkenneth, says they are very elegant,
but bids me tell you he doubts whether be according to the rubrick; but that is your concern;
for, you know, he is a Presbyterian.'

"Legitimas faciunt pectora pura preces.[870]"

       *       *       *       *       *

'To DR. LAWRENCE[871].

'Feb. 7, 1775.

'SIR,

'One of the Scotch physicians is now prosecuting a corporation that in some publick instrument
have stiled him Doctor of Medicine instead of Physician. Boswell desires, being advocate for
the corporation, to know whether Doctor of Medicine is not a legitimate title, and whether
it may be considered as a disadvantageous distinction. I am to write to-night; be pleased to
tell me.

'I am, Sir, your most, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'My DEAR BOSWELL,

'I am surprised that, knowing as you do the disposition of your countrymen to tell lies in
favour of each other[872], you can be at all affected by any reports that circulate among them.
Macpherson never in his life offered me a sight of any original or of any evidence of any kind;
but thought only of intimidating me by noise and threats, till my last answer,--that I would
not be deterred from detecting what I thought a cheat, by the menaces of a ruffian--put an
end to our correspondence.

'The state of the question is this. He, and Dr. Blair, whom I consider as deceived, say, that
he copied the poem from old manuscripts. His copies, if he had them, and I believe him to have
none, are nothing. Where are the manuscripts? They can be shown if they exist, but they were
never shown. De non existentibus et non apparentibus, says our law, eadem est ratio. No man
has a claim to credit upon his own word, when better evidence, if he had it, may be easily
produced. But, so far as we can find, the Erse language was never written till very lately
for the purposes of religion. A nation that cannot write, or a language that was never written,
has no manuscripts.

'But whatever he has he never offered to show. If old manuscripts should now be mentioned,
I should, unless there were more evidence than can be easily had, suppose them another proof
of Scotch conspiracy in national falsehood.

'Do not censure the expression; you know it to be true.

'Dr. Memis's question is so narrow as to allow no speculation; and I have no facts before me
but those which his advocate has produced against you.

'I consulted this morning the President of the London College of Physicians[873], who says,
that with us, Doctor of Physick (we do not say Doctor of Medicine) is the highest title that
a practicer of physick can have; that Doctor implies not only Physician, but teacher of physick;
that every Doctor is legally a Physician; but no man, not a Doctor, can practice physick but
by licence particularly granted. The Doctorate is a licence of itself. It seems to us a very
slender cause of prosecution.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am now engaged, but in a little time I hope to do all you would have. My compliments to
Madam and Veronica.

'I am, Sir, 'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. It abounds in extensive philosophical views of
society, and in ingenious sentiment and lively description. A considerable part of it, indeed,
consists of speculations, which many years before he saw the wild regions which we visited
together, probably had employed his attention, though the actual sight of those scenes undoubtedly
quickened and augmented them. Mr. Orme, the very able historian[884], agreed with me in this
opinion, which he thus strongly expressed:--'There are in that book thoughts, which, by long
revolution in the great mind of Johnson, have been formed and polished like pebbles rolled
in the ocean!'

That he was to some degree of excess a true-born Englishman[885], so as to have entertained
an undue prejudice against both the country and the people of Scotland, must be allowed[886].
But it was a prejudice of the head, and not of the heart. He had no ill-will to the Scotch;
for, if he had been conscious of that, he would never have thrown himself into the bosom of
their country, and trusted to the protection of its remote inhabitants with a fearless confidence.
His remark upon the nakedness of the country, from its being denuded of trees[887], was made
after having travelled two hundred miles along the eastern coast, where certainly trees are
not to be found near the road; and he said it was 'a map of the road[888]' which he gave. His
disbelief of the authenticity of the poems ascribed to Ossian, a Highland bard, was confirmed
in the course of his journey, by a very strict examination of the evidence offered for it;
and although their authenticity was made too much a national point by the Scotch, there were
many respectable persons in that country, who did not concur in this; so that his judgement
upon the question ought not to be decried, even by those who differ from him. As to myself,
I can only say, upon a subject now become very uninteresting, that when the fragments of Highland
poetry first came out, I was much pleased with their wild peculiarity, and was one of those
who subscribed to enable their editor, Mr. Macpherson, then a young man, to make a search in
the Highlands and Hebrides for a long poem in the Erse language, which was reported to be preserved
somewhere in those regions. But when there came forth an Epick Poem in six books, with all
the common circumstances of former compositions of that nature; and when, upon an attentive
examination of it, there was found a perpetual recurrence of the same images which appear in
the fragments; and when no ancient manuscript, to authenticate the work, was deposited in any
publick library, though that was insisted on as a reasonable proof, who could forbear to doubt[889]?

The observations of my friend Mr. Dempster in a letter[892] written to me, soon after he had
read Dr. Johnson's book, are so just and liberal, that they cannot be too often repeated:

'There is nothing in the book, from beginning to end, that a Scotchman need to take amiss.
What he says of the country is true; and his observations on the people are what must naturally
occur to a sensible, observing, and reflecting inhabitant of a convenient metropolis, where
a man on thirty pounds a year may be better accommodated with all the little wants of life,
than Col or Sir Allan.

'I am charmed with his researches concerning the Erse language, and the antiquity of their
manuscripts. I am quite convinced; and I shall rank Ossian and his Fingals and Oscars amongst
the nursery tales, not the true history of our country, in all time to come.

'Upon the whole, the book cannot displease, for it has no pretensions. The authour neither
says he is a geographer, nor an antiquarian, nor very learned in the history of Scotland, nor
a naturalist, nor a fossilist[893]. The manners of the people, and the face of the country,
are all he attempts to describe, or seems to have thought of. Much were it to be wished, that
they who have travelled into more remote, and of course more curious regions, had all possessed
his good sense. Of the state of learning, his observations on Glasgow University show he has
formed a very sound judgement. He understands our climate too; and he has accurately observed
the changes, however slow and imperceptible to us, which Scotland has undergone, in consequence
of the blessings of liberty and internal peace.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Knox, another native of Scotland, who has since made the same tour, and published an account
of it, is equally liberal.

'I have read (says he,) his book again and again, travelled with him from Berwick to Glenelg,
through countries with which I am well acquainted; sailed with him from Glenelg to Rasay, Sky,
Rum, Col, Mull, and Icolmkill, but have not been able to correct him in any matter of consequence.
I have often admired the accuracy, the precision, and the justness of what he advances, respecting
both the country and the people.

'The Doctor has every where delivered his sentiments with freedom, and in many instances with
a seeming regard for the benefit of the inhabitants and the ornament of the country. His remarks
on the want of trees and hedges for shade, as well as for shelter to the cattle, are well founded,
and merit the thanks, not the illiberal censure of the natives. He also felt for the distresses
of the Highlanders, and explodes with great propriety the bad management of the grounds, and
the neglect of timber in the Hebrides.'

Having quoted Johnson's just compliments on the Rasay family[894], he says,

'On the other hand, I found this family equally lavish in their encomiums upon the Doctor's
conversation, and his subsequent civilities to a young gentleman of that country, who, upon
waiting upon him at London, was well received, and experienced all the attention and regard
that a warm friend could bestow. Mr. Macleod having also been in London, waited upon the Doctor,
who provided a magnificent and expensive entertainment in honour of his old Hebridean acquaintance.'

And talking of the military road by Fort Augustus, he says,

'By this road, though one of the most rugged in Great Britain, the celebrated Dr. Johnson passed
from Inverness to the Hebride Isles. His observations on the country and people are extremely
correct, judicious, and instructive[895].'

Mr. Tytler, the acute and able vindicator of Mary Queen of Scots, in one of his letters to
Mr. James Elphinstone, published in that gentleman's Forty Years' Correspondence, says,

'I read Dr. Johnson's Tour with very great pleasure. Some few errours he has fallen into, but
of no great importance, and those are lost in the numberless beauties of his work.

'If I had leisure, I could perhaps point out the most exceptionable places; but at present
I am in the country, and have not his book at hand. It is plain he meant to speak well of Scotland;
and he has in my apprehension done us great honour in the most capital article, the character
of the inhabitants.'

His private letters to Mrs. Thrale, written during the course of his journey, which therefore
may be supposed to convey his genuine feelings at the time, abound in such benignant sentiments
towards the people who showed him civilities[896], that no man whose temper is not very harsh
and sour, can retain a doubt of the goodness of his heart.

It is painful to recollect with what rancour he was assailed by numbers of shallow irritable
North Britons, on account of his supposed injurious treatment of their country and countrymen,
in his Journey. Had there been any just ground for such a charge, would the virtuous and candid
Dempster[897] have given his opinion of the book, in the terms which I have quoted? Would the
patriotick Knox[898] have spoken of it as he has done? Would Mr. Tytler, surely

'--a Scot, if ever Scot there were,'

have expressed himself thus? And let me add, that, citizen of the world as I hold myself to
be, I have that degree of predilection for my natale solum, nay, I have that just sense of
the merit of an ancient nation, which has been ever renowned for its valour, which in former
times maintained its independence against a powerful neighbour, and in modern times has been
equally distinguished for its ingenuity and industry in civilized life, that I should have
felt a generous indignation at any injustice done to it. Johnson treated Scotland no worse
than he did even his best friends, whose characters he used to give as they appeared to him,
both in light and shade. Some people, who had not exercised their minds sufficiently, condemned
him for censuring his friends. But Sir Joshua Reynolds, whose philosophical penetration and
justness of thinking were not less known to those who lived with him, than his genius in his
art is admired by the world, explained his conduct thus: 'He was fond of discrimination, which
he could not show without pointing out the bad as well as the good in every character; and
as his friends were those whose characters he knew best, they afforded him the best opportunity
for showing the acuteness of his judgement.'

He expressed to his friend Mr. Windham of Norfolk, his wonder at the extreme jealousy of the
Scotch, and their resentment at having their country described by him as it really was; when,
to say that it was a country as good as England, would have been a gross falsehood. No, Sir;
the Irish are a FAIR PEOPLE;--they never speak well of one another.'

Johnson told me of an instance of Scottish nationality, which made a very unfavourable impression
upon his mind. A Scotchman, of some consideration in London, solicited him to recommend, by
the weight of his learned authority, to be master of an English school, a person of whom he
who recommended him confessed he knew no more but that he was his countryman. Johnson was shocked
at this unconscientious conduct[902]. 'Edinburgh, Feb. 18, 1775.

'You would have been very well pleased if you had dined with me to-day. I had for my guests,
Macquharrie, young Maclean of Col, the successor of our friend, a very amiable man, though
not marked with such active qualities as his brother; Mr. Maclean of Torloisk in Mull, a gentleman
of Sir Allan's family; and two of the clan Grant; so that the Highland and Hebridean genius
reigned. We had a great deal of conversation about you, and drank your health in a bumper.
The toast was not proposed by me, which is a circumstance to be remarked, for I am now so connected
with you, that any thing that I can say or do to your honour has not the value of an additional
compliment. It is only giving you a guinea out of that treasure of admiration which already
belongs to you, and which is no hidden treasure; for I suppose my admiration of you is co-existent
with the knowledge of my character.

'I find that the Highlanders and Hebrideans in general are much fonder of your Journey than
the low-country or hither Scots. One of the Grants said to-day, that he was sure you were a
man of a good heart, and a candid man, and seemed to hope he should be able to convince you
of the antiquity of a good proportion of the poems of Ossian. After all that has passed, I
think the matter is capable of being proved to a certain degree. I am told that Macpherson
got one old Erse MS. from Clanranald, for the restitution of which he executed a formal obligation;
and it is affirmed, that the Gaelick (call it Erse or call it Irish,) has been written in the
Highlands and Hebrides for many centuries. It is reasonable to suppose, that such of the inhabitants
as acquired any learning, possessed the art of writing as well as their Irish neighbours, and
Celtick cousins; and the question is, can sufficient evidence be shewn of this?

'Those who are skilled in ancient writings can determine the age of MSS. or at least can ascertain
the century in which they were written; and if men of veracity, who are so skilled, shall tell
us that MSS. in the possession of families in the Highlands and isles are the works of a remote
age, I think we should be convinced by their testimony.

'There is now come to this city, Ranald Macdonald from the Isle of Egg, who has several MSS.
of Erse poetry, which he wishes to publish by subscription. I have engaged to take three copies
of the book, the price of which is to be six shillings, as I would subscribe for all the Erse
that can be printed be it old or new, that the language may be preserved. This man says, that
some of his manuscripts are ancient; and, to be sure, one of them which was shewn to me does
appear to have the duskyness of antiquity.

       *       *       *       *       *

'The enquiry is not yet quite hopeless, and I should think that the exact truth may be discovered,
if proper means be used. I am, &c.

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am sorry that I could get no books for my friends in Scotland. Mr. Strahan has at last promised
to send two dozen to you. If they come, put the names of my friends into them; you may cut
them out[905], and paste them with a little starch in the book.

'You then are going wild about Ossian. Why do you think any part can be proved? The dusky manuscript
of Egg is probably not fifty years old; if it be an hundred, it proves nothing. The tale of
Clanranald is no proof. Has Clanranald told it? Can he prove it? There are, I believe, no Erse
manuscripts. None of the old families had a single letter in Erse that we heard of. You say
it is likely that they could write. The learned, if any learned there were, could; but knowing
by that learning, some written language, in that language they wrote, as letters had never
been applied to their own. If there are manuscripts, let them be shewn, with some proof that
they are not forged for the occasion. You say many can remember parts of Ossian. I believe
all those parts are versions of the English; at least there is no proof of their antiquity.

'Macpherson is said to have made some translations himself; and having taught a boy to write
it, ordered him to say that he had learnt it of his grandmother. The boy, when he grew up,
told the story. This Mrs. Williams heard at Mr. Strahan's table. Don't be credulous; you know
how little a Highlander can be trusted.[906] Macpherson is, so far as I know, very quiet. Is
not that proof enough? Every thing is against him. No visible manuscript; no inscription in
the language: no correspondence among friends: no transaction of business, of which a single
scrap remains in the ancient families. Macpherson's pretence is, that the character was Saxon.
If he had not talked unskilfully of manuscripts, he might have fought with oral tradition much
longer. As to Mr. Grant's information, I suppose he knows much less of the matter than ourselves.

'In the mean time, the bookseller says that the sale[907] is sufficiently quick. They printed
four thousand. Correct your copy wherever it is wrong, and bring it up. Your friends will all
be glad to see you. I think of going myself into the country about May.

'I am sorry that I have not managed to send the book sooner. I have left four for you, and
do not restrict you absolutely to follow my directions in the distribution. You must use your
own discretion.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell: I suppose she is now just beginning to forgive me.

'I am, dear Sir, your humble servant, 'SAM. Besides, I could not perceive in it that ability
of argument, or that felicity of expression, for which he was, upon other occasions, so eminent.
Positive assertion, sarcastical severity, and extravagant ridicule, which he himself reprobated
as a test of truth, were united in this rhapsody.

That this pamphlet was written at the desire of those who were then in power, I have no doubt;
and, indeed, he owned to me, that it had been revised and curtailed by some of them. He told
me, that they had struck out one passage, which was to this effect:--

'That the Colonists could with no solidity argue from their not having been taxed while in
their infancy, that they should not now he taxed. We do not put a calf into the plow; we wait
till he is an ox.'

He said, 'They struck it out either critically as too ludicrous, or politically as too exasperating.
I care not which. It was their business. If an architect says, I will build five stories, and
the man who employs him says, I will have only three, the employer is to decide.' 'Yes, Sir,
(said I,) in ordinary cases. But should it be so when the architect gives his skill and labour
gratis?'

Unfavourable as I am constrained to say my opinion of this pamphlet was, yet, since it was
congenial with the sentiments of numbers at that time, and as everything relating to the writings
of Dr. Johnson is of importance in literary history, I shall therefore insert some passages
which were struck out, it does not appear why, either by himself or those who revised it. They
appear printed in a few proof leaves of it in my possession, marked with corrections in his
own hand-writing. I shall distinguish them by Italicks.

In the paragraph where he says the Americans were incited to resistance by European intelligence
from

'Men whom they thought their friends, but who were friends only to themselves[918],'

there followed,--

'and made by their selfishness, the enemies of their country'

And the next paragraph ran thus:--

'On the original contrivers of mischief, rather than on those whom they have deluded, let an
insulted nation pour out its vengeance.'

The paragraph which came next was in these words:--

'Unhappy is that country in which men can hope for advancement by favouring its enemies. The
tranquillity of stable government is not always easily preserved against the machinations of
single innovators; but what can be the hope of quiet, when factions hostile to the legislature
can be openly formed and openly avowed?'

After the paragraph which now concludes the pamphlet, there followed this, in which he certainly
means the great Earl of Chatham[919], and glances at a certain popular Lord Chancellor[920].'

'If, by the fortune of war, they drive us utterly away, what they will do next can only be
conjectured. If a new monarchy is erected, they will want a KING. He who first takes into his
hand the sceptre of America, should have a name of good omen. WILLIAM has been known both as
conqueror and deliverer; and perhaps England, however contemned, might yet supply them with
ANOTHER WILLIAM. Whigs, indeed, are not willing to be governed; and it is possible that KING
WILLIAM may be strongly inclined to guide their measures: but Whigs have been cheated like
other mortals, and suffered their leader to become their tyrant, under the name of their PROTECTOR.
What more they will receive from England, no man can tell. In their rudiments of empire they
may want a CHANCELLOR.'

Then came this paragraph:--

'Their numbers are, at present, not quite sufficient for the greatness which, in some form
of government or other, is to rival the ancient monarchies; but by Dr. Franklin's rule of progression[921],
they will, in a century and a quarter, be more than equal to the inhabitants of Europe. When
the Whigs of America are thus multiplied, let the Princes of the earth tremble in their palaces.
If they should continue to double and to double, their own hemisphere would not contain them.
But let not our boldest oppugners of authority look forward with delight to this futurity of
Whiggism.'

How it ended I know not, as it is cut off abruptly at the foot of the last of these proof pages[922].

His pamphlets in support of the measures of administration were published on his own account,
and he afterwards collected them into a volume, with the title of Political Tracts, by the
Authour of the Rambler, with this motto:--

'Fallitur egregio quisquis sub Principe credit Servitium; nunquam libertas gratior extat Quam
sub Rege pio.' CLAUDIANUS[923].

These pamphlets drew upon him numerous attacks[924]. Against the common weapons of literary
warfare he was hardened; but there were two instances of animadversion which I communicated
to him, and from what I could judge, both from his silence and his looks, appeared to me to
impress him much.

One was, A Letter to Dr. Samuel Johnson, occasioned by his late political Publications. It
appeared previous to his Taxation no Tyranny, and was written by Dr. Joseph Towers[925]. In
that performance, Dr. Johnson was treated with the respect due to so eminent a man, while his
conduct as a political writer was boldly and pointedly arraigned, as inconsistent with the
character of one, who, if he did employ his pen upon politics,

'It might reasonably be expected should distinguish himself, not by party violence and rancour,
but by moderation and by wisdom.'

It concluded thus:--

'I would, however, wish you to remember, should you again address the publick under the character
of a political writer, that luxuriance of imagination or energy of language will ill compensate
for the want of candour, of justice, and of truth. And I shall only add, that should I hereafter
be disposed to read, as I heretofore have done, the most excellent of all your performances,
The Rambler, the pleasure which I have been accustomed to find in it will be much diminished
by the reflection that the writer of so moral, so elegant, and so valuable a work, was capable
of prostituting his talents in such productions as The False Alarm, the Thoughts on the Transactions
respecting Falkland's Islands, and The Patriot'

I am willing to do justice to the merit of Dr. Towers, of whom I will say, that although I
abhor his Whiggish democratical notions and propensities, (for I will not call them principles,)
I esteem him as an ingenious, knowing, and very convivial man.

The other instance was a paragraph of a letter to me, from my old and most intimate friend,
the Reverend Mr. Temple, who wrote the character of Gray, which has had the honour to be adopted
both by Mr. Mason and Dr. Johnson in their accounts of that poet[927]. The words were,--

'How can your great, I will not say your pious, but your moral friend, support the barbarous
measures of administration, which they have not the face to ask even their infidel pensioner
Hume to defend[926].'

However confident of the rectitude of his own mind, Johnson may have felt sincere uneasiness
that his conduct should be erroneously imputed to unworthy motives, by good men; and that the
influence of his valuable writings should on that account be in any degree obstructed or lessened[928].

He complained to a Right Honourable friend[929] of distinguished talents and very elegant manners,
with whom he maintained a long intimacy, and whose generosity towards him will afterwards appear[930],
that his pension having been given to him as a literary character, he had been applied to by
administration to write political pamphlets; and he was even so much irritated, that he declared
his resolution to resign his pension. His friend shewed him the impropriety of such a measure,
and he afterwards expressed his gratitude, and said he had received good advice. To that friend
he once signified a wish to have his pension secured to him for his life; but he neither asked
nor received from government any reward whatsoever for his political labours[931]. I once said
to Dr. Madan[941], a clergyman of Ireland, who was a great Whig, that perhaps a Nonjuror would
have been less criminal in taking the oaths imposed by the ruling power, than refusing them;
because refusing them, necessarily laid him under almost an irresistible temptation to be more
criminal; for, a man must live, and if he precludes himself from the support furnished by the
establishment, will probably be reduced to very wicked shifts to maintain himself[942].' BOSWELL.
'I should think, Sir, that a man who took the oaths contrary to his principles, was a determined
wicked man, because he was sure he was committing perjury; whereas a Nonjuror might be insensibly
led to do what was wrong, without being so directly conscious of it.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, a
man who goes to bed to his patron's wife is pretty sure that he is committing wickedness.'
BOSWELL. 'Did the nonjuring clergymen do so, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'I am afraid many of them did.'

I was startled at his argument, and could by no means think it convincing. Had not his own
father complied with the requisition of government[943], (as to which he once observed to me,
when I pressed him upon it, 'That, Sir, he was to settle with himself,') he would probably
have thought more unfavourably of a Jacobite who took the oaths:

'--had he not resembled My father as he swore--[944].'

Mr. Strahan talked of launching into the great ocean of London, in order to have a chance for
rising into eminence; and, observing that many men were kept back from trying their fortunes
there, because they were born to a competency, said, 'Small certainties are the bane of men
of talents[945];' which Johnson confirmed. It is weak, and contemptible, and unworthy, in a
parent to relax in such a case. It is sacrificing general advantage to private feelings. And
let it be considered, that the claim of a daughter who has acted thus, to be restored to her
former situation, is either fantastical or unjust. If there be no value in the distinction
of rank, what does she suffer by being kept in the situation to which she has descended? If
there be a value in that distinction, it ought to be steadily maintained. If indulgence be
shewn to such conduct, and the offenders know that in a longer or shorter time they shall be
received as well as if they had not contaminated their blood by a base alliance, the great
check upon that inordinate caprice which generally occasions low marriages will be removed,
and the fair and comfortable order of improved life will be miserably disturbed[968].

Lord Chesterfield's Letters being mentioned, Johnson said, 'It was not to be wondered at that
they had so great a sale, considering that they were the letters of a statesman, a wit, one
who had been so much in the mouths of mankind, one long accustomed virum volitare per ora[969].'

On Friday, March 31, I supped with him and some friends at a tavern[970]. I shall here insert
the progress and completion of that high academical honour, in the same manner as I have traced
his obtaining that of Master of Arts.

To the Reverend Dr. FOTHERGILL, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, to be communicated
to the Heads of Houses, and proposed in Convocation.

'MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR AND GENTLEMEN[974],

'The honour of the degree of M.A. by diploma, formerly conferred upon MR. SAMUEL JOHNSON, in
consequence of his having eminently distinguished himself by the publication of a series of
Essays, excellently calculated to form the manners of the people, and in which the cause of
religion and morality has been maintained and recommended by the strongest powers of argument
and elegance of language, reflected an equal degree of lustre upon the University itself.

'The many learned labours which have since that time employed the attention and displayed the
abilities of that great man, so much to the advancement of literature and the benefit of the
community, render him worthy of more distinguished honours in the Republick of letters: and
I persuade myself, that I shall act agreeably to the sentiments of the whole University, in
desiring that it may be proposed in Convocation to confer on him the degree of Doctor in Civil
Law by diploma, to which I readily give my consent; and am,

'Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Gentlemen,

'Your affectionate friend and servant,

'NORTH[975].'

'Downing-street,

March 23, 1775.'

DIPLOMA.

'CANCELLARIUS, Magistri, et Scholares Universitatis Oxoniensis omnibus ad quos presentes Literae
pervenerint, salutem in Domino Sempiternam.

'SCIATIS, virum illustrem, SAMUELEM JOHNSON, in omni humaniorum literarum genere eruditum,
omniumque scientiarum comprehensione felicissimum, scriptis suis, ad popularium mores formandos
summa verborum elegantia ac sententiarum gravitate compositis, ita olim inclaruisse, ut dignus
videretur cui ab Academia sua eximia quaedam laudis praemia deferentur [deferrentur] quique
[in] venerabilem Magistrorum Ordinem summa cum dignitate cooptaretur:

'Cum vero eundem clarissimum virum tot postea tantique labores, in patria praesertim lingua
ornanda et stabilienda feliciter impensi, ita insigniverint, ut in Literarum Republica PRINCEPS
jam et PRIMARIUS jure habeatur; Nos CANCELLARIUS, Magistri, et Scholares Universitatis Oxoniensis,
quo talis viri merita pari honoris remuneratione exaequentur, et perpetuum suae simul laudis,
nostraeque erga literas propensissimae voluntatis extet monumentum, in solenni Convocatione
Doctorum et Magistrorum Regentium, et non Regentium, praedictum SAMUELEM JOHNSON Doctorem in
Jure Civili renunciavimus et constituimus, eumque virtute praesentis Diplomatis singulis juribus,
privilegiis et honoribus, ad istum gradum quaqua pertinentibus, frui et gaudere jussimus. In
cujus rei testimonium commune Universitatis Oxoniensis sigillum praesentibus apponi fecimus.

'Datum in Domo nostrae Convocationis die tricesimo Mensis Martii, Anno Domini Millesimo septingentesimo,
septuagesimo quinto[976].'

'Viro Reverendo Thomae Fothergill, S.T.P. Universitatis Oxoniensis Vice-Cancellario.

'S. P. D.

'Sam Johnson.

'MULTIS non est opus, ut testimonium quo, te praeside, Oxonienses nomen meum posteris commendarunt,
quali animo acceperim compertum faciam. Nemo sibi placens non laetatur[977]; nemo sibi non
placet, qui vobis, literarum arbitris, placere potuit. Hoc tamen habet incommodi tantum beneficium,
quod mihi nunquam posthac sine vestrae famae detrimento vel labi liceat vel cessare; semperque
sit timendum, ne quod mihi tam eximiae laudi est, vobis aliquando fiat opprobrio. Vale[978].'

'7 Id. Apr., 1775.'

He revised some sheets of Lord Hailes's Annals of Scotland, and wrote a few notes on the margin
with red ink, which he bade me tell his Lordship did not sink into the paper, and might be
wiped off with a wet sponge, so that he did not spoil his manuscript.

I visited him by appointment in the evening, and we drank tea with Mrs. Williams. He told me
that he had been in the company of a gentleman[979] whose extraordinary travels had been much
the subject of conversation. But I found that he had not listened to him with that full confidence,
without which there is little satisfaction in the society of travellers. I was curious to hear
what opinion so able a judge as Johnson had formed of his abilities, and I asked if he was
not a man of sense. Johnson. 'Why, Sir, he is not a distinct relater; and I should say, he
is neither abounding nor deficient in sense. I did not perceive any superiority of understanding.'
BOSWELL. 'But will you not allow him a nobleness of resolution, in penetrating into distant
regions?' JOHNSON. 'That, Sir, is not to the present purpose. We are talking of his sense.
'Nay, Sir, how can two people make an Ode? Perhaps one made one of them, and one the other.'[982]
I observed that two people had made a play, and quoted the anecdote of Beaumont and Fletcher,
who were brought under suspicion of treason, because while concerting the plan of a tragedy
when sitting together at a tavern, one of them was overheard saying to the other, 'I'll kill
the King.' JOHNSON. 'The first of these Odes is the best: but they are both good. They exposed
a very bad kind of writing.' BOSWELL. 'Surely, Sir, Mr. Mason's Elfrida is a fine Poem: at
least you will allow there are some good passages in it.' JOHNSON. 'There are now and then
some good imitations of Milton's bad manner.'

I often wondered at his low estimation of the writings of Gray and Mason. Of Gray's poetry
I have in a former part of this work[983] expressed my high opinion; and for that of Mr. Mason
I have ever entertained a warm admiration[984]. His Elfrida is exquisite, both in poetical
description and moral sentiment; and his Caractacus is a noble drama[985]. Nor can I omit paying
my tribute of praise to some of his smaller poems, which I have read with pleasure, and which
no criticism shall persuade me not to like. If I wondered at Johnson's not tasting the works
of Mason and Gray, still more have I wondered at their not tasting his works; that they should
be insensible to his energy of diction, to his splendour of images, and comprehension of thought.
Tastes may differ as to the violin, the flute, the hautboy, in short all the lesser instruments:
but who can be insensible to the powerful impressions of the majestick organ? 'Ay, Sir, (said
he,) the exception defined the idea. A Scotchman could go no farther:

"The force of Nature could no farther go[990]."'

Lady Miller's collection of verses by fashionable people, which were put into her Vase at Batheaston
villa[991], near Bath, in competition for honorary prizes, being mentioned, he held them very
cheap: 'Bouts rimes (said he,) is a mere conceit, and an old conceit now, I wonder how people
were persuaded to write in that manner for this lady[992].' I named a gentleman of his acquaintance
who wrote for the Vase. JOHNSON. 'He was a blockhead for his pains.' BOSWELL. 'The Duchess
of Northumberland wrote[993].' JOHNSON. 'Sir, the Duchess of Northumberland may do what she
pleases: nobody will say anything to a lady of her high rank. 'Would not that, Sir, be checking
the freedom of election?' JOHNSON. JOHNSON. 'Hale, Sir, attended to other things besides law:
he left a great estate.' BOSWELL. 'That was, because what he got, accumulated without any exertion
and anxiety on his part.'

While the dispute went on, Moody once tried to say something upon our side. Tom Davies clapped
him on the back, to encourage him. JOHNSON. 'I have been reading Twiss's Travels in Spain,
which are just come out. They are as good as the first book of travels that you will take up.
They are as good as those of Keysler[1024] or Blainville[1025]; nay, as Addison's, if you except
the learning. They are not so good as Brydone's[1026], but they are better than Pococke's[1027].
I have not, indeed, cut the leaves yet; but I have read in them where the pages are open, and
I do not suppose that what is in the pages which are closed is worse than what is in the open
pages. It would seem (he added,) that Addison had not acquired much Italian learning, for we
do not find it introduced into his writings[1028]. The only instance that I recollect, is his
quoting "Stavo bene; per star meglio, sto qui[1029]."'

I mentioned Addison's having borrowed many of his classical remarks from Leandro Alberti[1030].
Mr. Beauclerk said, 'It was alledged that he had borrowed also from another Italian authour.'
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, all who go to look for what the Classicks have said of Italy, must find
the same passages; and I should think it would be one of the first things the Italians would
do on the revival of learning, to collect all that the Roman authors have said of their country.'

Ossian being mentioned;--JOHNSON. 'Supposing the Irish and Erse languages to be the same, which
I do not believe[1031], yet as there is no reason to suppose that the inhabitants of the Highlands
and Hebrides ever wrote their native language, it is not to be credited that a long poem was
preserved among them. If we had no evidence of the art of writing being practised in one of
the counties of England, we should not believe that a long poem was preserved there, though
in the neighbouring counties, where the same language was spoken, the inhabitants could write.'
BEAUCLERK. 'The ballad of Lilliburlero was once in the mouths of all the people of this country,
and is said to have had a great effect in bringing about the Revolution[1032]. I maintain,
that certainly all patriots were not scoundrels. Being urged, (not by Johnson) to name one
exception, I mentioned an eminent person[1036], whom we all greatly admired. JOHNSON. 'Sir,
I do not say that he is not honest; but we have no reason to conclude from his political conduct
that he is honest. Were he to accept of a place from this ministry, he would lose that character
of firmness which he has, and might be turned out of his place in a year.

He this day enlarged upon Pope's melancholy remark,

'Man never is, but always to be blest[1046].'

He asserted that the present was never a happy state to any human being; but that, as every
part of life, of which we are conscious, was at some point of time a period yet to come, in
which felicity was expected, there was some happiness produced by hope[1047].

He entered upon the state of the nation, and thus discoursed: 'Sir, the great misfortune now
is, that government has too little power. All that it has to bestow must of necessity be given
to support itself; so that it cannot reward merit. No man, for instance, can now be made a
Bishop for his learning and piety[1054]; his only chance for promotion is his being connected
with somebody who has parliamentary interest. Our several ministries in this reign have outbid
each other in concessions to the people. Lord Bute, though a very honourable man,--a man who
meant well,--a man who had his blood full of prerogative,--was a theoretical statesman,--a
book-minister[1055],--and thought this country could be governed by the influence of the Crown
alone. Then, Sir, he gave up a great deal. He advised the King to agree that the Judges should
hold their places for life, instead of losing them at the accession of a new King. Lord Bute,
I suppose, thought to make the King popular by this concession; but the people never minded
it; and it was a most impolitick measure. There is no reason why a Judge should hold his office
for life, more than any other person in publick trust. A Judge may be partial otherwise than
to the Crown: we have seen Judges partial to the populace[1056]. A Judge may become corrupt,
and yet there may not be legal evidence against him. A Judge may become froward from age. A
Judge may grow unfit for his office in many ways. It was desirable that there should be a possibility
of being delivered from him by a new King. That is now gone by an act of Parliament ex gratia
of the Crown[1057]. Lord Bute advised the King to give up a very large sum of money[1058],
for which nobody thanked him. It was of consequence to the King, but nothing to the publick,
among whom it was divided. When I say Lord Bute advised, I mean, that such acts were done when
he was minister, and we are to suppose that he advised them.--Lord Bute shewed an undue partiality
to Scotchmen. He turned out Dr. Nichols[1059], a very eminent man, from being physician to
the King, to make room for one of his countrymen, a man very low in his profession[1060]. He
had ----[1061] and ----[1062] to go on errands for him. He had occasion for people to go on
errands for him; but he should not have had Scotchmen; and, certainly, he should not have suffered
them to have access to him before the first people in England.'

I told him, that the admission of one of them before the first people in England, which had
given the greatest offence, was no more than what happens at every minister's levee, where
those who attend are admitted in the order that they have come, which is better than admitting
them according to their rank; for if that were to be the rule, a man who has waited all the
morning might have the mortification to see a peer, newly come, go in before him, and keep
him waiting still. JOHNSON. 'True, Sir; but ---- should not have come to the levee, to be in
the way of people of consequence. He saw Lord Bute at all times; and could have said what he
had to say at any time, as well as at the levee. There is now no Prime Minister: there is only
an agent for government in the House of Commons[1063]. We are governed by the Cabinet: but
there is no one head there since Sir Robert Walpole's time.' BOSWELL. 'What then, Sir, is the
use of Parliament?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, Parliament is a larger council to the King; and the
advantage of such a council is, having a great number of men of property concerned in the legislature,
who, for their own interest, will not consent to bad laws. And you must have observed, Sir,
that administration is feeble and timid, and cannot act with that authority and resolution
which is necessary. Were I in power, I would turn out every man who dared to oppose me. Government
has the distribution of offices, that it may be enabled to maintain its authority[1064].'

'Lord Bute (he added,) took down too fast, without building up something new.' BOSWELL. 'Because,
Sir, he found a rotten building. The political coach was drawn by a set of bad horses: it was
necessary to change them.' JOHNSON.

He observed, 'All knowledge is of itself of some value. There is nothing so minute or inconsiderable,
that I would not rather know it than not. In the same manner, all power, of whatever sort,
is of itself desirable.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have enquired more minutely about the medicine for the rheumatism, which I am sorry to hear
that you still want. The receipt is this:

'Take equal quantities of flour of sulphur, and flour of mustard-seed, make them an electuary
with honey or treacle; and take a bolus as big as a nutmeg several times a day, as you can
bear it: drinking after it a quarter of a pint of the infusion of the root of Lovage.

'Lovage, in Ray's Nomenclature, is Levisticum: perhaps the Botanists may know the Latin name.

'Of this medicine I pretend not to judge. There is all the appearance of its efficacy, which
a single instance can afford: the patient was very old, the pain very violent, and the relief,
I think, speedy and lasting.

'My opinion of alterative medicine is not high, but quid tentasse nocebit? if it does harm,
or does no good, it may be omitted; but that it may do good, you have, I hope, reason to think
is desired by,

'Sir, your most affectionate, Humble servant, SAM. Dr. Donne's Life, he said, was the most
perfect of them. He observed, that 'it was wonderful that Walton, who was in a very low situation
in life, should have been familiarly received by so many great men, and that at a time when
the ranks of society were kept more separate than they are now.' He supposed that Walton had
then given up his business as a linen draper and sempster, and was only an authour[1089]; and
added, 'that he was a great panegyrist.' BOSWELL. 'No quality will get a man more friends than
a disposition to admire the qualities of others. I do not mean flattery, but a sincere admiration.'
JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, flattery pleases very generally[1090].

Johnson observed, that the force of our early habits was so great, that though reason approved,
nay, though our senses relished a different course, almost every man returned to them. I do
not believe there is any observation upon human nature better founded than this; and, in many
cases, it is a very painful truth; for where early habits have been mean and wretched, the
joy and elevation resulting from better modes of life must be damped by the gloomy consciousness
of being under an almost inevitable doom to sink back into a situation which we recollect with
disgust. It surely may be prevented, by constant attention and unremitting exertion to establish
contrary habits of superiour efficacy. In his Life of Gay, he has been still more decisive
as to the inefficiency of The Beggar's Opera in corrupting society[1099]. But I have ever thought
somewhat differently; for, indeed, not only are the gaiety and heroism of a highwayman very
captivating to a youthful imagination, but the arguments for adventurous depredation are so
plausible, the allusions so lively, and the contrasts with the ordinary and more painful modes
of acquiring property are so artfully displayed, that it requires a cool and strong judgement
to resist so imposing an aggregate: yet, I own, I should be very sorry to have The Beggar's
Opera suppressed; for there is in it so much of real London life, so much brilliant wit, and
such a variety of airs, which, from early association of ideas, engage, soothe, and enliven
the mind, that no performance which the theatre exhibits, delights me more.

The late 'worthy' Duke of Queensberry[1100], as Thomson, in his Seasons, justly characterises
him, told me, that when Gay first shewed him The Beggar's Opera, his Grace's observation was,
'This is a very odd thing, Gay; I am satisfied that it is either a very good thing, or a very
bad thing.' It proved the former, beyond the warmest expectations of the authour or his friends,
Mr. Cambridge, however, shewed us to-day, that there was good reason enough to doubt concerning
its success. He was told by Quin, that during the first night of its appearance it was long
in a very dubious state; that there was a disposition to damn it, and that it was saved by
the song[1101],

'Oh ponder well! be not severe!'

the audience being much affected by the innocent looks of Polly, when she came to those two
lines, which exhibit at once a painful and ridiculous image,

'For on the rope that hangs my Dear, Depends poor Polly's life.'

Quin himself had so bad an opinion of it, that he refused the part of Captain Macheath, and
gave it to Walker[1102], who acquired great celebrity by his grave yet animated performance
of it[1103]. How different in that respect is the state of the nation now from what it was
in the time of Charles the First, during the Usurpation, and after the Restoration, in the
time of Charles the Second. Hudibras affords a strong proof how much hold political principles
had then upon the minds of men. There is in Hudibras a great deal of bullion which will always
last. But to be sure the brightest strokes of his wit owed their force to the impression of
the characters, which was upon men's minds at the time; to their knowing them, at table and
in the street; in short, being familiar with them; and above all, to his satire being directed
against those whom a little while before they had hated and feared[1106]. The nation in general
has ever been loyal, has been at all times attached to the monarch, though a few daring rebels
have been wonderfully powerful for a time. The murder of Charles the First was undoubtedly
not committed with the approbation or consent of the people. Had that been the case, Parliament
would not have ventured to consign the regicides to their deserved punishment. And we know
what exuberance of joy there was when Charles the Second was restored. If Charles the Second
had bent all his mind to it, had made it his sole object, he might have been as absolute as
Louis the Fourteenth.' A gentleman observed he would have done no harm if he had. JOHNSON.
'Why, Sir, absolute princes seldom do any harm. But they who are governed by them are governed
by chance. There is no security for good government.' CAMBRIDGE. 'There have been many sad
victims to absolute government.' JOHNSON. 'So, Sir, have there been to popular factions.' BOSWELL.
'The question is, which is worst, one wild beast or many?'

Johnson praised The Spectator, particularly the character of Sir Roger de Coverley. He said,
'Sir Roger did not die a violent death, as has been generally fancied. He was not killed; he
died only because others were to die, and because his death afforded an opportunity to Addison
for some very fine writing. We have the example of Cervantes making Don Quixote die[1107].--I
never could see why Sir Roger is represented as a little cracked. I can now only record some
particular scenes, and a few fragments of his memorabilia. But to make some amends for my relaxation
of diligence in one respect, I have to present my readers with arguments upon two law cases,
with which he favoured me.

On Saturday, the sixth of May, we dined by ourselves at the Mitre, and he dictated to me what
follows, to obviate the complaint already mentioned[1112], which had been made in the form
of an action in the Court of Session, by Dr. Memis, of Aberdeen, that in the same translation
of a charter in which physicians were mentioned, he was called Doctor of Medicine.

'There are but two reasons for which a physician can decline the title of Doctor of Medicine,
because he supposes himself disgraced by the doctorship, or supposes the doctorship disgraced
by himself. To be disgraced by a title which he shares in common with every illustrious name
of his profession, with Boerhaave, with Arbuthnot, and with Cullen, can surely diminish no
man's reputation. It is, I suppose, to the doctorate, from which he shrinks, that he owes his
right of practising physick. A doctor of Medicine is a physician under the protection of the
laws, and by the stamp of authority. The physician, who is not a Doctor, usurps a profession,
and is authorised only by himself to decide upon health and sickness, and life and death. That
this gentleman is a Doctor, his diploma makes evident; a diploma not obtruded upon him, but
obtained by solicitation, and for which fees were paid. With what countenance any man can refuse
the title which he has either begged or bought, is not easily discovered.

'All verbal injury must comprise in it either some false position, or some unnecessary declaration
of defamatory truth. That in calling him Doctor, a false appellation was given him, he himself
will not pretend, who at the same time that he complains of the title, would be offended if
we supposed him to be not a Doctor. If the title of Doctor be a defamatory truth, it is time
to dissolve our colleges; for why should the publick give salaries to men whose approbation
is reproach? It may likewise deserve the notice of the publick to consider what help can be
given to the professors of physick, who all share with this unhappy gentleman the ignominious
appellation, and of whom the very boys in the street are not afraid to say, There goes the Doctor.

'What is implied by the term Doctor is well known. It distinguishes him to whom it is granted,
as a man who has attained such knowledge of his profession as qualifies him to instruct others.
A Doctor of Laws is a man who can form lawyers by his precepts. A Doctor of Medicine is a man
who can teach the art of curing diseases. There is an old axiom which no man has yet thought
fit to deny, Nil dat quod non habet. Upon this principle to be Doctor implies skill, for nemo
docet quod non didicit. In England, whoever practises physick, not being a Doctor, must practise
by a licence: but the doctorate conveys a licence in itself.

'By what accident it happened that he and the other physicians were mentioned in different
terms, where the terms themselves were equivalent, or where in effect that which was applied
to him was the most honourable, perhaps they who wrote the paper cannot now remember. Had they
expected a lawsuit to have been the consequence of such petty variation, I hope they would
have avoided it[1113]. But, probably, as they meant no ill, they suspected no danger, and,
therefore, consulted only what appeared to them propriety or convenience.'

A few days afterwards I consulted him upon a cause, Paterson and others against Alexander and
others, which had been decided by a casting vote in the Court of Session, determining that
the Corporation of Stirling was corrupt, and setting aside the election of some of their officers,
because it was proved that three of the leading men who influenced the majority had entered
into an unjustifiable compact, of which, however, the majority were ignorant. He dictated to
me, after a little consideration, the following sentences upon the subject:--

'There is a difference between majority and superiority; majority is applied to number, and
superiority to power; and power, like many other things, is to be estimated non numero sed
pondere. Now though the greater number is not corrupt, the greater weight is corrupt, so that
corruption predominates in the borough, taken collectively, though, perhaps, taken numerically,
the greater part may be uncorrupt. That borough, which is so constituted as to act corruptly,
is in the eye of reason corrupt, whether it be by the uncontrolable power of a few, or by an
accidental pravity of the multitude. The objection, in which is urged the injustice of making
the innocent suffer with the guilty, is an objection not only against society, but against
the possibility of society. All societies, great and small, subsist upon this condition; that
as the individuals derive advantages from union, they may likewise suffer inconveniences; that
as those who do nothing, and sometimes those who do ill, will have the honours and emoluments
of general virtue and general prosperity, so those likewise who do nothing, or perhaps do well,
must be involved in the consequences of predominant corruption.'

This in my opinion was a very nice case; but the decision was affirmed in the House of Lords.

On Monday, May 8, we went together and visited the mansions of Bedlam[1114]. I have preserved
nothing of what passed, except that Crosbie pleased him much by talking learnedly of alchymy,
as to which Johnson was not a positive unbeliever, but rather delighted in considering what
progress had actually been made in the transmutation of metals, what near approaches there
had been to the making of gold; and told us that it was affirmed, that a person in the Russian
dominions had discovered the secret, but died without revealing it, as imagining it would be
prejudicial to society. He added, that it was not impossible but it might in time be generally
known.

It being asked whether it was reasonable for a man to be angry at another whom a woman had
preferred to him;--JOHNSON. 'I do not see, Sir, that it is reasonable for a man to be angry
at another, whom a woman has preferred to him: but angry he is, no doubt; and he is loath to
be angry at himself.'

Before setting out for Scotland on the 23rd[1121], I was frequently in his company at different
places, but during this period have recorded only two remarks: one concerning Garrick: 'He
has not Latin enough. JOHNSON.'

'May 21, 1775.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I make no doubt but you are now safely lodged in your own habitation, and have told all your
adventures to Mrs. Boswell and Miss Veronica. Pray teach Veronica to love me. Bid her not mind
mamma.

'Mrs. Thrale has taken cold, and been very much disordered, but I hope is grown well. Mr. Langton
went yesterday to Lincolnshire, and has invited Nicolaida[1127] to follow him. Beauclerk talks
of going to Bath. I am to set out on Monday; so there is nothing but dispersion.

'I have returned Lord Hailes's entertaining sheets[1128], but must stay till I come back for
more, because it will be inconvenient to send them after me in my vagrant state.

'I promised Mrs. Macaulay[1129] that I would try to serve her son at Oxford. I have not forgotten
it, nor am unwilling to perform it. If they desire to give him an English education, it should
be considered whether they cannot send him for a year or two to an English school. If he comes
immediately from Scotland, he can make no figure in our Universities. The schools in the north,
I believe, are cheap; and, when I was a young man, were eminently good.

'There are two little books published by the Foulis[1130], Telemachus and Collins's Poems,
each a shilling: I would be glad to have them.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, though she does not love me. You see what perverse things
ladies are, and how little fit to be trusted with feudal estates. When she mends and loves
me, there may be more hope of her daughters.

'I will not send compliments to my friends by name, because I would be loath to leave any out
in the enumeration. Tell them, as you see them, how well I speak of Scotch politeness, and
Scotch hospitality, and Scotch beauty, and of every thing Scotch, but Scotch oat-cakes, and
Scotch prejudices.

'Let me know the answer of Rasay[1131], and the decision relating to Sir Allan[1132].

'I am, my dearest Sir, with great affection, 'Your most obliged, and 'Most humble servant,
'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'May 27, 1775.'

After my return to Scotland, I wrote three letters to him, from which I extract the following
passages:--

'I have seen Lord Hailes since I came down. He thinks it wonderful that you are pleased to
take so much pains in revising his Annals. I told him that you said you were well rewarded
by the entertainment which you had in reading them.'

'There has been a numerous flight of Hebrideans in Edinburgh this summer, whom I have been
happy to entertain at my house. Mr. Donald Macqueen[1133] and Lord Monboddo supped with me
one evening. They joined in controverting your proposition, that the Gaelick of the Highlands
and Isles of Scotland was not written till of late.'

'My mind has been somewhat dark this summer[1134]. I have need of your warming and vivifying
rays; and I hope I shall have them frequently.

'For the black fumes which rise in your mind, I can prescribe nothing but that you disperse
them by honest business or innocent pleasure, and by reading, sometimes easy and sometimes
serious. Change of place is useful; and I hope that your residence at Auchinleck will have
many good effects[1136].

'That I should have given pain to Rasay, I am sincerely sorry; and am therefore very much pleased
that he is no longer uneasy. He still thinks that I have represented him as personally giving
up the Chieftainship. I meant only that it was no longer contested between the two houses,
and supposed it settled, perhaps, by the cession of some remote generation, in the house of
Dunvegan. I am sorry the advertisement was not continued for three or four times in the paper.

'That Lord Monboddo and Mr. Macqueen should controvert a position contrary to the imaginary
interest of literary or national prejudice, might be easily imagined; but of a standing fact
there ought to be no controversy: If there are men with tails, catch an homo caudatus; if there
was writing of old in the Highlands or Hebrides, in the Erse language, produce the manuscripts.
Where men write, they will write to one another, and some of their letters, in families studious
of their ancestry, will be kept. In Wales there are many manuscripts.

'I have now three parcels of Lord Hailes's history, which I purpose to return all the next
week: that his respect for my little observations should keep his work in suspense, makes one
of the evils of my journey. It is in our language, I think, a new mode of history, which tells
all that is wanted, and, I suppose, all that is known, without laboured splendour of language,
or affected subtilty of conjecture. The exactness of his dates raises my wonder. He seems to
have the closeness of Henault[1137] without his constraint.

'SIR,

'If in these papers[1140] there is little alteration attempted, do not suppose me negligent.
I have read them perhaps more closely than the rest; but I find nothing worthy of an objection.

'Write to me soon, and write often, and tell me all your honest heart.

'I am Sir, 'Yours affectionately, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Aug. 30, 1775.'

TO THE SAME.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'I now write to you, lest in some of your freaks and humours you should fancy yourself neglected.
Such fancies I must entreat you never to admit, at least never to indulge: for my regard for
you is so radicated and fixed, that it is become part of my mind, and cannot be effaced but
by some cause uncommonly violent; therefore, whether I write or not, set your thoughts at rest.
I now write to tell you that I shall not very soon write again, for I am to set out to-morrow
on another journey.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Your friends are all well at Streatham, and in Leicester-fields[1141]. Make my compliments
to Mrs. Boswell, if she is in good humour with me.

'I am, Sir, &c. 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'September 14, 1775.'

What he mentions in such light terms as, 'I am to set out to-morrow on another journey,' I
soon afterwards discovered was no less than a tour to France with Mr. and Mrs. Thrale. This
was the only time in his life that he went upon the Continent.

'To MR. ROBERT LEVET.

'Sept. 18[1142], 1775. Calais.

'DEAR SIR,

'We are here in France, after a very pleasing passage of no more than six hours. I know not
when I shall write again, and therefore I write now, though you cannot suppose that I have
much to say. You have seen France yourself[1143]. From this place we are going to Rouen, and
from Rouen to Paris, where Mr. Thrale designs to stay about five or six weeks. We have a regular
recommendation to the English resident, so we shall not be taken for vagabonds. We think to
go one way and return another, and for [?see] as much as we can. I will try to speak a little
French[1144]; I tried hitherto but little, but I spoke sometimes. If I heard better, I suppose
I should learn faster. I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

To THE SAME.

'Edinburgh, Oct. 24, 1775.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'If I had not been informed that you were at Paris, you should have had a letter from me by
the earliest opportunity, announcing the birth of my son, on the 9th instant; I have named
him Alexander[1148], after my father. I now write, as I suppose your fellow traveller, Mr.
Thrale, will return to London this week, to attend his duty in Parliament, and that you will
not stay behind him.

'I send another parcel of Lord Hailes's Annals, I have undertaken to solicit you for a favour
to him, which he thus requests in a letter to me: "I intend soon to give you The Life of Robert
Bruce, which you will be pleased to transmit to Dr. Johnson. I wish that you could assist me
in a fancy which I have taken, of getting Dr. Johnson to draw a character of Robert Bruce,
from the account that I give of that prince. If he finds materials for it in my work, it will
be a proof that I have been fortunate in selecting the most striking incidents."

'I suppose by The Life of Robert Bruce, his Lordship means that part of his Annals which relates
the history of that prince, and not a separate work.

'Shall we have A Journey to Paris from you in the winter? You will, I hope, at any rate be
kind enough to give me some account of your French travels very soon, for I am very impatient.
What a different scene have you viewed this autumn, from that which you viewed in autumn 1773!
I know that she does not love me; but I intend to persist in wishing her well till I get the
better of her.

'Paris is, indeed, a place very different from the Hebrides, but it is to a hasty traveller
not so fertile of novelty, nor affords so many opportunities of remark. I cannot pretend to
tell the publick any thing of a place better known to many of my readers than to myself. We
can talk of it when we meet.

'I shall go next week to Streatham, from whence I purpose to send a parcel of the History every
post. Concerning the character of Bruce, I can only say, that I do not see any great reason
for writing it; but I shall not easily deny what Lord Hailes and you concur in desiring.

'I have been remarkably healthy all the journey, and hope you and your family have known only
that trouble and danger which has so happily terminated. Among all the congratulations that
you may receive, I hope you believe none more warm or sincere, than those of, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'November 16, 1775[1150].'

'TO MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD[1151].

'DEAR MADAM,

'This week I came home from Paris. I have brought you a little box, which I thought pretty;
but I know not whether it is properly a snuff-box, or a box for some other use. I will send
it, when I can find an opportunity. I have been through the whole journey remarkably well.
My fellow-travellers were the same whom you saw at Lichfield[1152], only we took Baretti with
us. Paris is not so fine a place as you would expect. The palaces and churches, however, are
very splendid and magnificent; and what would please you, there are many very fine pictures;
but I do not think their way of life commodious or pleasant[1153].

'Let me know how your health has been all this while. I hope the fine summer has given you
strength sufficient to encounter the winter.

'Make my compliments to all my friends; and, if your fingers will let you, write to me, or
let your maid write, if it be troublesome to you. I am, dear Madam,

'Your most affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'November 16, 1775.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR MADAM,

'Some weeks ago I wrote to you, to tell you that I was just come home from a ramble, and hoped
that I should have heard from you. I am afraid winter has laid hold on your fingers, and hinders
you from writing. However, let somebody write, if you cannot, and tell me how you do, and a
little of what has happened at Lichfield among our friends. I hope you are all well.

'When I was in France, I thought myself growing young, but am afraid that cold weather will
take part of my new vigour from me. Let us, however, take care of ourselves, and lose no part
of our health by negligence.

'I never knew whether you received the Commentary on the New Testament and the Travels, and
the glasses.

'Do, my dear love, write to me; and do not let us forget each other. This is the season of
good wishes, and I wish you all good. I have not lately seen Mr. Porter[1154], nor heard of
him. Is he with you?

'Be pleased to make my compliments to Mrs. Adey, and Mrs. Cobb, and all my friends; and when
I can do any good, let me know.

'I am, dear Madam, 'Yours most affectionately, 'SAM. During his visit to it, which lasted but
about two months, he wrote notes or minutes of what he saw. He promised to show me them, but
I neglected to put him in mind of it; and the greatest part of them has been lost, or perhaps,
destroyed in a precipitate burning of his papers a few days before his death, which must ever
be lamented. One small paper-book, however, entitled 'FRANCE II,' has been preserved, and is
in my possession. It is a diurnal register of his life and observations, from the 10th of October
to the 4th of November, inclusive, being twenty-six days, and shows an extraordinary attention
to various minute particulars. Being the only memorial of this tour that remains, my readers,
I am confident, will peruse it with pleasure, though his notes are very short, and evidently
written only to assist his own recollection.

'Oct. 10. Tuesday. We saw the Ecole Militaire, in which one hundred and fifty young boys are
educated for the army. They have arms of different sizes, according to the age;--flints of
wood. The building is very large, but nothing fine, except the council-room. The French have
large squares in the windows;--they make good iron palisades. Their meals are gross.

'We visited the Observatory, a large building of a great height. The upper stones of the parapet
very large, but not cramped with iron. The flat on the top is very extensive; but on the insulated
part there is no parapet. Though it was broad enough, I did not care to go upon it. Maps were
printing in one of the rooms.

'We walked to a small convent of the Fathers of the Oratory. In the reading-desk of the refectory
lay the lives of the Saints.

'Oct. 11. Wednesday. We went to see Hotel de Chatlois[1156], a house not very large, but very
elegant. One of the rooms was gilt to a degree that I never saw before. The upper part for
servants and their masters was pretty.

'Thence we went to Mr. Monville's, a house divided into small apartments, furnished with effeminate
and minute elegance.--Porphyry.

'Thence we went to St. Roque's church, which is very large;--the lower part of the pillars
incrusted with marble.--Three chapels behind the high altar;--the last a mass of low arches.--Altars,
I believe, all round.

'We passed through Place de Vendome, a fine square, about as big as Hanover-square.--Inhabited
by the high families.--Lewis XIV. on horse-back in the middle.

'Monville is the son of a farmer-general. In the house of Chatlois is a room furnished with
japan, fitted up in Europe.

'We dined with Boccage[1157], the Marquis Blanchetti, and his lady.--The sweetmeats taken by
the Marchioness Blanchetti, after observing that they were dear.--Mr. Le Roy, Count Manucci,
the Abbe, the Prior[1158], and Father Wilson, who staid with me, till I took him home in the coach.

'Bathiani is gone.

'The French have no laws for the maintenance of their poor.--Monk not necessarily a priest.--Benedictines
rise at four; are at church an hour and half; at church again half an hour before, half an
hour after, dinner; and again from half an hour after seven to eight. They may sleep eight
hours.--Bodily labour wanted in monasteries.

'The poor taken to hospitals, and miserably kept.--Monks in the convent fifteen:--accounted poor.

'Oct. 12. Thursday. We went to the Gobelins.--Tapestry makes a good picture;--imitates flesh
exactly.--One piece with a gold ground;--the birds not exactly coloured.--Thence we went to
the King's cabinet;--very neat, not, perhaps, perfect.--Gold ore.--Candles of the candle-tree.--
Seeds.--Woods. Thence to Gagnier's house, where I saw rooms nine, furnished with a profusion
of wealth and elegance which I never had seen before.--Vases.--Pictures.--The Dragon china.--The
lustre said to be of crystal, and to have cost 3,500L.--The whole furniture said to have cost
125,000L.--Damask hangings covered with pictures.--Porphyry.--This house struck me.--Then we
waited on the ladies to Monville's.--Captain Irwin with us[1159].--Spain. County towns all
beggars.--At Dijon he could not find the way to Orleans.--Cross roads of France very bad.--Five
soldiers.--Woman.--Soldiers escaped.--The Colonel would not lose five men for the death of
one woman.--The magistrate cannot seize a soldier but by the Colonel's permission.--Good inn
at Nismes.--Moors of Barbary fond of Englishmen.--Gibraltar eminently healthy;--It has beef
from Barbary;--There is a large garden.--Soldiers sometimes fall from the rock.

'Oct. 13. Friday. I staid at home all day, only went to find the Prior, who was not at home.--I
read something in Canus[1160].--Nec admiror, nec multum laudo.

Oct. 14. Saturday. We went to the house of Mr. Argenson, which was almost wainscotted with
looking-glasses, and covered with gold.--The ladies' closet wainscotted with large squares
of glass over painted paper. They always place mirrours to reflect their rooms.

'Then we went to Julien's, the Treasurer of the Clergy:--30,000L a year.--The house has no
very large room, but is set with mirrours, and covered with gold.--Books of wood here, and
in another library.

'At D----'s[1161] I looked into the books in the lady's closet, and, in contempt, shewed them
to Mr. T.--Prince Titi[1162]; Bibl. des Fees, and other books.--She was offended, and shut
up, as we heard afterwards, her apartment.

'Then we went to Julien Le Roy, the King's watch-maker, a man of character in his business,
who shewed a small clock made to find the longitude[1163].--A decent man.

'Afterwards we saw the Palais Marchand[1164], and the Courts of Justice, civil and criminal.--Queries
on the Sellette[1165].--This building has the old Gothick passages, and a great appearance
of antiquity.--Three hundred prisoners sometimes in the gaol[1166].

'Much disturbed; hope no ill will be[1167].

'In the afternoon I visited Mr. Freron the journalist[1168]. He spoke Latin very scantily,
but seemed to understand me.--His house not splendid, but of commodious size.--His family,
wife, son, and daughter, not elevated but decent.--I was pleased with my reception.--He is
to translate my books, which I am to send him with notes.

'Oct. 15. Sunday. At Choisi, a royal palace on the banks of the Seine, about 7m. from Paris.--The
terrace noble along the river.--The rooms numerous and grand, but not discriminated from other
palaces.--The chapel beautiful, but small.--China globes.--Inlaid tables.--Labyrinth. --Sinking
table[1169].--Toilet tables.

'Oct. 16. Monday. The Palais Royal very grand, large, and lofty.--A very great collection of
pictures.--Three of Raphael.--Two Holy Family.--One small piece of M. Angelo.--One room of
Rubens--I thought the pictures of Raphael fine[1170].

'The Thuilleries.--Statues.--Venus.--Aen. and Anchises in his arms.--Nilus.--Many more. The
walks not open to mean persons.--Chairs at night hired for two sous apiece.--Pont tournant[1171].

'Austin Nuns.--Grate.--Mrs. Fermor, Abbess[1172].--She knew Pope, and thought him disagreeable.--Mrs.
------- has many books[1173];--has seen life.--Their frontlet disagreeable.--Their hood.--Their
life easy.--Rise about five; hour and half in chapel.--Dine at ten.--Another hour and half
at chapel; half an hour about three, and half an hour more at seven:--four hours in chapel.--A
large garden.--Thirteen pensioners[1174].--Teacher complained.

'At the Boulevards saw nothing, yet was glad to be there.--Rope-dancing and farce.--Egg dance.

'N. [Note.] Near Paris, whether on week-days or Sundays, the roads empty.

'Oct. 17, Tuesday. At the Palais Marchand I bought

        A snuff-box[1175],          24 L.
        -------------             6
        Table book               15
        Scissars 3 p [pair]      18
                                ----
                                 63--2 12 6[1176]

'We heard the lawyers plead.--N. As many killed at Paris as there are days in the year. Chambre
de question[1177].--Tournelle[1178] at the Palais Marchand.--An old venerable building.

'The Palais Bourbon, belonging to the Prince of Conde. Only one small wing shown;--lofty;--splendid;--gold
and glass.--The battles of the great Conde are painted in one of the rooms. The present Prince
a grandsire at thirty-nine[1179].

'The sight of palaces, and other great buildings, leaves no very distinct images, unless to
those who talk of them. As I entered, my wife was in my mind[1180]: she would have been pleased.
Having now nobody to please, I am little pleased.

'N. In France there is no middle rank[1181].

'So many shops open, that Sunday is little distinguished at Paris.--The palaces of Louvre and
Thuilleries granted out in lodgings.

'In the Palais de Bourbon, gilt globes of metal at the fire-place.

'The French beds commended.--Much of the marble, only paste.

'The Colosseum a mere wooden building, at least much of it.

'Oct. 18. Wednesday. We went to Fontainebleau, which we found a large mean town, crowded with
people.--The forest thick with woods, very extensive.--Manucci[1182] secured us lodgings.--The
appearance of the country pleasant. No hills, few streams, only one hedge.--I remember no chapels
nor crosses on the road.--Pavement still, and rows of trees.

'N. Nobody but mean people walk in Paris[1183].

'Oct. 19. Thursday. At Court, we saw the apartments;--the King's bed-chamber and council-chamber
extremely splendid--Persons of all ranks in the external rooms through which the family passes:--servants
and masters.--Brunet with us the second time.

'The introductor came to us;--civil to me.--Presenting.--I had scruples.--Not necessary.--We
went and saw the King[1184] and Queen at dinner.--We saw the other ladies at dinner--Madame
Elizabeth[1185], with the Princess of Guimene.--At night we went to a comedy. I neither saw
nor heard.--Drunken women.--Mrs. Th. preferred one to the other.

'Oct. 20. Friday. We saw the Queen mount in the forest--Brown habit; rode aside: one lady rode
aside.--The Queen's horse light grey; martingale.--She galloped.--We then went to the apartments,
and admired them.--Then wandered through the palace.--In the passages, stalls and shops.--Painting
in Fresco by a great master, worn out.--We saw the King's horses and dogs.--The dogs almost
all English.--Degenerate.

'The horses not much commended.--The stables cool; the kennel filthy.

'At night the ladies went to the opera. I refused, but should have been welcome.

'The King fed himself with his left hand as we.

'Saturday, 21. In the night I got ground.--We came home to Paris.--I think we did not see the
chapel.--Tree broken by the wind.--The French chairs made all of boards painted.

N. Soldiers at the court of justice.--Soldiers not amenable to the magistrates.--Dijon woman[1186].

'Faggots in the palace.--Every thing slovenly, except in the chief rooms.--Trees in the roads,
some tall, none old, many very young and small.

'Women's saddles seem ill made.--Queen's bridle woven with silver.--Tags to strike the horse.

'Sunday, Oct. 22. To Versailles[1187], a mean town. Carriages of business passing.--Mean shops
against the wall.--Our way lay through Seve, where the China manufacture.--Wooden bridge at
Seve, in the way to Versailles.--The palace of great extent.--The front long; I saw it not
perfectly.--The Menagerie. Cygnets dark; their black feet; on the ground; tame.--Halcyons,
or gulls.--Stag and hind, young.--Aviary, very large; the net, wire.--Black stag of China,
small.--Rhinoceros, the horn broken and pared away, which, I suppose, will grow; the basis,
I think, four inches 'cross; the skin folds like loose cloth doubled over his body, and cross
his hips; a vast animal, though young; as big, perhaps, as four oxen.--The young elephant,
with his tusks just appearing.--The brown bear put out his paws;--all very tame.--The lion.--The
tigers I did not well view.--The camel, or dromedary with two bunches called the Huguin[1188],
taller than any horse.--Two camels with one bunch.--Among the birds was a pelican, who being
let out, went to a fountain, and swam about to catch fish. His feet well webbed: he dipped
his head, and turned his long bill sidewise. He caught two or three fish, but did not eat them.

'Trianon is a kind of retreat appendant to Versailles. It has an open portico; the pavement,
and, I think, the pillars, of marble.--There are many rooms, which I do not distinctly remember--A
table of porphyry, about five feet long, and between two and three broad, given to Louis XIV.
by the Venetian State.--In the council-room almost all that was not door or window, was, I
think, looking-glass.--Little Trianon is a small palace like a gentleman's house.--The upper
floor paved with brick.--Little Vienne.--The court is ill paved.--The rooms at the top are
small, fit to sooth the imagination with privacy. In the front of Versailles are small basons
of water on the terrace, and other basons, I think, below them. There are little courts.--The
great gallery is wainscotted with mirrors, not very large, but joined by frames. I suppose
the large plates were not yet made.--The play-house was very large.--The chapel I do not remember
if we saw--We saw one chapel, but I am not certain whether there or at Trianon.--The foreign
office paved with bricks.--The dinner half a Louis each, and, I think, a Louis over.--Money
given at Menagerie, three livres; at palace, six livres.

'Oct. 23. Monday. Last night I wrote to Levet.--We went to see the looking-glasses wrought.
They come from Normandy in cast plates, perhaps the third of an inch thick. At Paris they are
ground upon a marble table, by rubbing one plate upon another with grit between them. The various
sands, of which there are said to be five, I could not learn. The handle, by which the upper
glass is moved, has the form of a wheel, which may be moved in all directions. The plates are
sent up with their surfaces ground, but not polished, and so continue till they are bespoken,
lest time should spoil the surface, as we were told. Those that are to be polished, are laid
on a table, covered with several thick cloths, hard strained, that the resistance may be equal;
they are then rubbed with a hand rubber, held down hard by a contrivance which I did not well
understand. The powder which is used last seemed to me to be iron dissolved in aqua fortis:
they called it, as Baretti said, marc de beau forte, which he thought was dregs. They mentioned
vitriol and salt-petre. The cannon ball swam in the quicksilver. To silver them, a leaf of
beaten tin is laid, and rubbed with quicksilver, to which it unites. Then more quicksilver
is poured upon it, which, by its mutual [attraction] rises very high. Then a paper is laid
at the nearest end of the plate, over which the glass is slided till it lies upon the plate,
having driven much of the quicksilver before it. It is then, I think, pressed upon cloths,
and then set sloping to drop the superfluous mercury; the slope is daily heightened towards
a perpendicular.

'In the way I saw the Greve, the Mayor's house, and the Bastile.[1189]

'We then went to Sans-terre, a brewer. He brews with about as much malt as Mr. Thrale, and
sells his beer at the same price, though he pays no duty for malt, and little more than half
as much for beer. Beer is sold retail at 6d. a bottle. He brews 4,000 barrels a year. There
are seventeen brewers in Paris, of whom none is supposed to brew more than he:--reckoning them
at 3,000 each, they make 51,000 a year.--They make their malt, for malting is here no trade.
The moat of the Bastile is dry.

'Oct. 24, Tuesday. We visited the King's library--I saw the Speculum humanae Salvationis, rudely
printed, with ink, sometimes pale, sometimes black; part supposed to be with wooden types,
and part with pages cut on boards.--The Bible, supposed to be older than that of Mentz, in
62[1190]: it has no date; it is supposed to have been printed with wooden types.--I am in doubt;
the print is large and fair, in two folios.--Another book was shown me, supposed to have been
printed with wooden types;--I think, Durandi Sanctuarium[1191] in 58. This is inferred from
the difference of form sometimes seen in the same letter, which might be struck with different
puncheons.--The regular similitude of most letters proves better that they are metal.--I saw
nothing but the Speculum which I had not seen, I think, before.

'Thence to the Sorbonne.--The library very large, not in lattices like the King's. Marbone
and Durandi, q. collection 14 vol. Scriptores de rebus Gallicis, many folios.--Histoire Genealogique
of France, 9 vol.--Gallia Christiana, the first edition, 4to. the last, f. 12 vol.--The Prior
and Librarian dined [with us]:--I waited on them home.--Their garden pretty, with covered walks,
but small; yet may hold many students.--The Doctors of the Sorbonne are all equal:--choose
those who succeed to vacancies.--Profit little.

'Oct. 25. Wednesday. I went with the Prior to St. Cloud, to see Dr. Hooke.--We walked round
the palace, and had some talk.--I dined with our whole company at the Monastery.--In the library,Beroald,--Cymon,--
Titus, from Boccace.--Oratio Proverbialis to the Virgin, from Petrarch; Falkland to Sandys;
Dryden's Preface to the third vol. of Miscellanies[1192].

'Oct. 26. Thursday. We saw the china at Seve, cut, glazed, painted. Bellevue, a pleasing house,
not great: fine prospect.--Meudon, an old palace.--Alexander, in Porphyry: hollow between eyes
and nose, thin cheeks.--Plato and Aristotle--Noble terrace overlooks the town.--St. Cloud.--Gallery
not very high, nor grand, but pleasing.--In the rooms, Michael Angelo, drawn by himself, Sir
Thomas More, Des Cartes, Bochart, Naudacus, Mazarine.--Gilded wainscot, so common that it is
not minded.--Gough and Keene.--Hooke came to us at the inn.--A message from Drumgold.

'Oct. 27. Friday. I staid at home.--Gough and Keene, and Mrs. S----'s friend dined with us.--This
day we began to have a fire.--The weather is grown very cold, and I fear, has a bad effect
upon my breath, which has grown much more free and easy in this country.

'Sat. Oct. 28. I visited the Grand Chartreux built by St. Louis.--It is built for forty, but
contains only twenty-four, and will not maintain more. The friar that spoke to us had a pretty
apartment[1193].--Mr. Baretti says four rooms; I remember but three.--His books seemed to be
French.--His garden was neat; he gave me grapes.--We saw the Place de Victoire, with the statues
of the King, and the captive nations.

We saw the palace and gardens of Luxembourg, but the gallery was shut.--We climbed to the top
stairs.--I dined with Colbrooke, who had much company:--Foote, Sir George Rodney, Motteux,
Udson, Taaf.--Called on the Prior, and found him in bed.

'Hotel--a guinea a day.--Coach, three guineas a week.--Valet de place[1194], three l.[1195]
a day.--Avantcoureur, a guinea a week.-- Ordinary dinner, six l. a head.--Our ordinary seems
to be about five guineas a day.--Our extraordinary expences, as diversions, gratuities, clothes,
I cannot reckon.--Our travelling is ten guineas a day.

'White stockings, 18l.--Wig.--Hat.

'Sunday, Oct. 29. We saw the boarding-school.--The Enfans trouves [1196].--A room with about
eighty-six children in cradles, as sweet as a parlour.--They lose a third[1197]; take in to
perhaps more than seven [years old]; put them to trades; pin to them the papers sent with them.
--Want nurses.--Saw their chapel.

'Went to St. Eustatia; saw an innumerable company of girls catechised, in many bodies, perhaps
100 to a catechist.--Boys taught at one time, girls at another.--The sermon; the preacher wears
a cap, which he takes off at the name:--his action uniform, not very violent.

'Oct. 30. Monday. We saw the library of St. Germain[1198].--A very noble collection.--Codex
Divinorum Officiorum, 1459:--a letter, square like that of the Offices, perhaps the same.--The
Codex, by Fust and Gernsheym.--Meursius, 12 v. fol.--Amadis, in French, 3 v. fol.-- CATHOLICON
sine colophone, but of 1460.--Two other editions[1199], one by ... Augustin. de Civitate Dei,
without name, date, or place, but of Fust's square letter as it seems.

'I dined with Col. Drumgold;--had a pleasing afternoon.

'Some of the books of St. Germain's stand in presses from the wall, like those at Oxford.

'Oct. 31. Tuesday. I lived at the Benedictines; meagre day; soup meagre, herrings, eels, both
with sauce; fryed fish; lentils, tasteless in themselves. In the library; where I found Maffeus's
de Historia Indica: Promontorium flectere, to double the Cape. I parted very tenderly from
the Prior and Friar Wilkes[1200].

Maitre des Arts, 2 y.--Bacc. Theol. 3 y.--Licentiate, 2 y.--Doctor Th. 2 y. in all 9 years.--For
the Doctorate three disputations, Major, Minor, Sorbonica.--Several colleges suppressed, and
transferred to that which was the Jesuits' College.

'Nov. 1. Wednesday. We left Paris.--St. Denis, a large town; the church not very large, but
the middle isle is very lofty and aweful.--On the left are chapels built beyond the line of
the wall, which destroy the symmetry of the sides. The organ is higher above the pavement than
any I have ever seen.--The gates are of brass.--On the middle gate is the history of our Lord.--The
painted windows are historical, and said to be eminently beautiful.--We were at another church
belonging to a convent, of which the portal is a dome; we could not enter further, and it was
almost dark.

'Nov. 2. Thursday. We came this day to Chantilly, a seat belonging to the Prince of Conde.--This
place is eminently beautified by all varieties of waters starting up in fountains, falling
in cascades, running in streams, and spread in lakes.--The water seems to be too near the house.--All
this water is brought from a source or river three leagues off, by an artificial canal, which
for one league is carried under ground.--The house is magnificent.--The cabinet seems well
stocked: what I remember was, the jaws of a hippopotamus, and a young hippopotamus preserved,
which, however, is so small, that I doubt its reality.--It seems too hairy for an abortion,
and too small for a mature birth.--Nothing was in spirits; all was dry.--The dog, the deer;
the ant-bear with long snout.--The toucan, long broad beak.--The stables were of very great
length.--The kennel had no scents.--There was a mockery of a village.--The Menagerie had few
animals[1201]. For Dr. Blagden see post, 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection.--Two faussans[1202],
or Brasilian weasels, spotted, very wild.--There is a forest, and, I think, a park.--I walked
till I was very weary, and next morning felt my feet battered, and with pains in the toes.

'Nov. 3. Friday. We came to Compiegne, a very large town, with a royal palace built round a
pentagonal court.--The court is raised upon vaults, and has, I suppose, an entry on one side
by a gentle rise.--Talk of painting[1203],--The church is not very large, but very elegant
and splendid.--I had at first great difficulty to walk, but motion grew continually easier.--At
night we came to Noyon, an episcopal city.--The cathedral is very beautiful, the pillars alternately
gothick and Corinthian.--We entered a very noble parochial church.--Noyon is walled, and is
said to be three miles round.

'Nov. 4. Saturday. We rose very early, and came through St. Quintin to Cambray, not long after
three.--We went to an English nunnery, to give a letter to Father Welch, the confessor, who
came to visit us in the evening.

'Nov. 5. Sunday. We saw the cathedral.--It is very beautiful, with chapels on each side. The
choir splendid. The balustrade in one part brass.--The Neff[1204] very high and grand.--The
altar silver as far as it is seen.--The vestments very splendid.--At the Benedictines church----'

Here his Journal[1205] ends abruptly. Whether he wrote any more after this time, I know not;
but probably not much, as he arrived in England about the 12th of November. These short notes
of his tour, though they may seem minute taken singly, make together a considerable mass of
information, and exhibit such an ardour of enquiry and acuteness of examination, as, I believe,
are found in but few travellers, especially at an advanced age. They completely refute the
idle notion which has been propagated, that he could not see[1206]; and, if he had taken the
trouble to revise and digest them, he undoubtedly could have expanded them into a very entertaining
narrative. 'July 16, 1775[1218].

'Oui, Madame, le moment est arrive, et il faut que je parte. Mais pourquoi faut il partir?
Est ce que je m'ennuye? Je m'ennuyerai ailleurs. Est ce que je cherche ou quelque plaisir,
ou quelque soulagement? Je ne cherche rien, je n'espere rien. Aller voir ce que jai vu, etre
un peu rejoue, un peu degoute, me resouvenir que la vie se passe en vain, me plaindre de moi,
m'endurcir aux dehors; void le tout de ce qu'on compte pour les delices de l'annee.

'Edinburgh, Dec. 5, 1775.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Mr. Alexander Maclean, the young Laird of Col, being to set out to-morrow for London, I give
him this letter to introduce him to your acquaintance. The kindness which you and I experienced
from his brother, whose unfortunate death we sincerely lament[1221], will make us always desirous
to shew attention to any branch of the family. Indeed, you have so much of the true Highland
cordiality, that I am sure you would have thought me to blame if I had neglected to recommend
to you this Hebridean prince, in whose island we were hospitably entertained.

'I ever am with respectful attachment, my dear Sir, 'Your most obliged 'And most humble servant,
'JAMES BOSWELL.'

Mr. Maclean returned with the most agreeable accounts of the polite attention with which he
was received by Dr. Johnson.

'DEAR SIR,

'Never dream of any offence. How should you offend me? I consider your friendship as a possession,
which I intend to hold till you take it from me, and to lament if ever by my fault I should
lose it. However, when such suspicions find their way into your mind, always give them vent;
I shall make haste to disperse them; but hinder their first ingress if you can. Consider such
thoughts as morbid.

'Such illness as may excuse my omission to Lord Hailes, I cannot honestly plead. I have been
hindered, I know not how, by a succession of petty obstructions. I hope to mend immediately,
and to send next post to his Lordship. Mr. Thrale would have written to you if I had omitted;
he sends his compliments and wishes to see you.

'You and your lady will now have no more wrangling about feudal inheritance[1233]. How does
the young Laird of Auchinleck? I suppose Miss Veronica is grown a reader and discourser.

'I have just now got a cough, but it has never yet hindered me from sleeping: I have had quieter
nights than are common with me.

'I cannot but rejoice that Joseph[1234] has had the wit to find the way back. He is a fine
fellow, and one of the best travellers in the world.

'Young Col brought me your letter. He is a very pleasing youth. I took him two days ago to
the Mitre, and we dined together. I was as civil as I had the means of being.

'I have had a letter from Rasay, acknowledging, with great appearance of satisfaction, the
insertion in the Edinburgh paper[1235]. I am very glad that it was done.

'My compliments to Mrs. Boswell, who does not love me; and of all the rest, I need only send
them to those that do: and I am afraid it will give you very little trouble to distribute them.

'I am, my dear, dear Sir, 'Your affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'December, 23, 1775.'

1776: AETAT. 67--In 1776, Johnson wrote, so far as I can discover, nothing for the publick:
but that his mind was still ardent, and fraught with generous wishes to attain to still higher
degrees of literary excellence, is proved by his private notes of this year, which I shall
insert in their proper place.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have at last sent you all Lord Hailes's papers. While I was in France, I looked very often
into Henault[1236]; but Lord Hailes, in my opinion, leaves him far and far behind. Why I did
not dispatch so short a perusal sooner, when I look back, I am utterly unable to discover:
but human moments are stolen away by a thousand petty impediments which leave no trace behind
them. I have been afflicted, through the whole Christmas, with the general disorder, of which
the worst effect was a cough, which is now much mitigated, though the country, on which I look
from a window at Streatham, is now covered with a deep snow. Mrs. Williams is very ill: every
body else is as usual.

'Among the papers, I found a letter to you, which I think you had not opened; and a paper for
The Chronicle, which I suppose it not necessary now to insert. I return them both.

'I have, within these few days, had the honour of receiving Lord Hailes's first volume, for
which I return my most respectful thanks.

'I wish you, my dearest friend, and your haughty lady, (for I know she does not love me,) and
the young ladies, and the young Laird, all happiness. Teach the young gentleman, in spite of
his mamma, to think and speak well of,

'Sir, 'Your affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 10, 1776.'

At this time was in agitation a matter of great consequence to me and my family, which I should
not obtrude upon the world, were it not that the part which Dr. Johnson's friendship for me
made him take in it, was the occasion of an exertion of his abilities, which it would be injustice
to conceal. That what he wrote upon the subject may be understood, it is necessary to give
a state of the question, which I shall do as briefly as I can.

In the year 1504, the barony or manour of Auchinleck, (pronounced Affleck[1237],) in Ayrshire,
which belonged to a family of the same name with the lands, having fallen to the Crown by forfeiture,
James the Fourth, King of Scotland, granted it to Thomas Boswell, a branch of an ancient family
in the county of Fife, stiling him in the charter, dilecto familiari nostro; and assigning,
as the cause of the grant, pro bono et fideli servitio nobis praestito. Thomas Boswell was
slain in battle, fighting along with his Sovereign, at the fatal field of Flodden, in 1513[1238].

From this very honourable founder of our family, the estate was transmitted, in a direct series
of heirs male, to David Boswell, my father's great grand uncle, who had no sons, but four daughters,
who were all respectably married, the eldest to Lord Cathcart.

David Boswell, being resolute in the military feudal principle of continuing the male succession,
passed by his daughters, and settled the estate on his nephew by his next brother, who approved
of the deed, and renounced any pretensions which he might possibly have, in preference to his
son. But the estate having been burthened with large portions to the daughters, and other debts,
it was necessary for the nephew to sell a considerable part of it, and what remained was still
much encumbered.

The frugality of the nephew preserved, and, in some degree, relieved the estate. His son, my
grandfather, an eminent lawyer, not only re-purchased a great part of what had been sold, but
acquired other lands; and my father, who was one of the Judges of Scotland, and had added considerably
to the estate, now signified his inclination to take the privilege allowed by our law[1239],
to secure it to his family in perpetuity by an entail, which, on account of his marriage articles,
could not be done without my consent.

In the plan of entailing the estate, I heartily concurred with him, though I was the first
to be restrained by it; but we unhappily differed as to the series of heirs which should be
established, or in the language of our law, called to the succession. My father had declared
a predilection for heirs general, that is, males and females indiscriminately. He was willing,
however, that all males descending from his grandfather should be preferred to females; but
would not extend that privilege to males deriving their descent from a higher source. I, on
the other hand, had a zealous partiality for heirs male, however remote, which I maintained
by arguments which appeared to me to have considerable weight[1240]. And in the particular
case of our family, I apprehended that we were under an implied obligation, in honour and good
faith, to transmit the estate by the same tenure which we held it, which was as heirs male,
excluding nearer females. I therefore, as I thought conscientiously, objected to my father's
scheme.

My opposition was very displeasing to my father, who was entitled to great respect and deference;
and I had reason to apprehend disagreeable consequences from my non-compliance with his wishes[1241].
After much perplexity and uneasiness, I wrote to Dr. Johnson, stating the case, with all its
difficulties, at full length, and earnestly requesting that he would consider it at leisure,
and favour me with his friendly opinion and advice.

'To James Boswell, Esq.

'Dear Sir,

'I was much impressed by your letter, and if I can form upon your case any resolution satisfactory
to myself, will very gladly impart it: but whether I am quite equal to it, I do not know. It
is a case compounded of law and justice, and requires a mind versed in juridical disquisitions.
Could not you tell your whole mind to Lord Hailes? He is, you know, both a Christian and a
Lawyer. I suppose he is above partiality, and above loquacity: and, I believe, he will not
think the time lost in which he may quiet a disturbed, or settle a wavering mind. Write to
me, as any thing occurs to you; and if I find myself stopped by want of facts necessary to
be known, I will make inquiries of you as my doubts arise.

'If your former resolutions should be found only fanciful, you decide rightly in judging that
your father's fancies may claim the preference; but whether they are fanciful or rational,
is the question. I really think Lord Hailes could help us.

'Make my compliments to dear Mrs. Boswell; and tell her, that I hope to be wanting in nothing
that I can contribute to bring you all out of your troubles.

'I am, dear Sir, most affectionately,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, Jan. 15, 1776.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am going to write upon a question which requires more knowledge of local law, and more acquaintance
with the general rules of inheritance, than I can claim; but I write, because you request it.

'Land is, like any other possession, by natural right wholly in the power of its present owner;
and may be sold, given, or bequeathed, absolutely or conditionally, as judgment shall direct,
or passion incite.

'But natural right would avail little without the protection of law; and the primary notion
of law is restraint in the exercise of natural right. A man is therefore, in society, not fully
master of what he calls his own, but he still retains all the power which law does not take
from him.

'In the exercise of the right which law either leaves or gives, regard is to be paid to moral
obligations.

'Of the estate which we are now considering, your father still retains such possession, with
such power over it, that he can sell it, and do with the money what he will, without any legal
impediment. But when he extends his power beyond his own life, by settling the order of succession,
the law makes your consent necessary.

'Let us suppose that he sells the land to risk the money in some specious adventure, and in
that adventure loses the whole; his posterity would be disappointed; but they could not think
themselves injured or robbed. If he spent it upon vice or pleasure, his successors could only
call him vicious and voluptuous; they could not say that he was injurious or unjust.

'He that may do more may do less. He that, by selling, or squandering, may disinherit a whole
family, may certainly disinherit part, by a partial settlement.

'Laws are formed by the manners and exigencies of particular times, and it is but accidental
that they last longer than their causes: the limitation of feudal succession to the male arose
from the obligation of the tenant to attend his chief in war.

'As times and opinions are always changing, I know not whether it be not usurpation to prescribe
rules to posterity, by presuming to judge of what we cannot know: and I know not whether I
fully approve either your design or your father's, to limit that succession which descended
to you unlimited. If we are to leave sartum tectum[1242] to posterity, what we have without
any merit of our own received from our ancestors, should not choice and free-will be kept unviolated?
Is land to be treated with more reverence than liberty?--If this consideration should restrain
your father from disinheriting some of the males, does it leave you the power of disinheriting
all the females?

'Can the possessor of a feudal estate make any will? Can he appoint, out of the inheritance,
any portions to his daughters? There seems to be a very shadowy difference between the power
of leaving land, and of leaving money to be raised from land; between leaving an estate to
females, and leaving the male heir, in effect, only their steward.

'Suppose at one time a law that allowed only males to inherit, and during the continuance of
this law many estates to have descended, passing by the females, to remoter heirs. Suppose
afterwards the law repealed in correspondence with a change of manners, and women made capable
of inheritance; would not then the tenure of estates be changed? Could the women have no benefit
from a law made in their favour? Must they be passed by upon moral principles for ever, because
they were once excluded by a legal prohibition? Or may that which passed only to males by one
law, pass likewise to females by another?

'You mention your resolution to maintain the right of your brothers[1243]: I do not see how
any of their rights are invaded.

'As your whole difficulty arises from the act of your ancestor, who diverted the succession
from the females, you enquire, very properly, what were his motives, and what was his intention;
for you certainly are not bound by his act more than he intended to bind you, nor hold your
land on harder or stricter terms than those on which it was granted.

'Intentions must be gathered from acts. When he left the estate to his nephew, by excluding
his daughters, was it, or was it not, in his power to have perpetuated the succession to the
males? If he could have done it, he seems to have shown, by omitting it, that he did not desire
it to be done; and, upon your own principles, you will not easily prove your right to destroy
that capacity of succession which your ancestors have left.

'If your ancestor had not the power of making a perpetual settlement; and if, therefore, we
cannot judge distinctly of his intentions, yet his act can only be considered as an example;
it makes not an obligation. And, as you observe, he set no example of rigorous adherence to
the line of succession. He that overlooked a brother, would not wonder that little regard is
shown to remote relations.

'As the rules of succession are, in a great part, purely legal, no man can be supposed to bequeath
any thing, but upon legal terms; he can grant no power which the law denies; and if he makes
no special and definite limitation, he confers all the power which the law allows.

'Your ancestor, for some reason, disinherited his daughters; but it no more follows that he
intended this act as a rule for posterity, than the disinheriting of his brother.

'If, therefore, you ask by what right your father admits daughters to inheritance, ask yourself,
first, by what right you require them to be excluded?

'It appears, upon reflection, that your father excludes nobody; he only admits nearer females
to inherit before males more remote; and the exclusion is purely consequential.

'These, dear Sir, are my thoughts, immethodical and deliberative; but, perhaps, you may find
in them some glimmering of evidence.

'I cannot, however, but again recommend to you a conference with Lord Hailes, whom you know
to be both a Lawyer and a Christian.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, though she does not love me.

'I am, Sir, 'Your affectionate servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.

'Feb. 3, 1773'

I had followed his recommendation and consulted Lord Hailes, who upon this subject had a firm
opinion contrary to mine. His Lordship obligingly took the trouble to write me a letter, in
which he discussed with legal and historical learning, the points in which I saw much difficulty,
maintaining that 'the succession of heirs general was the succession, by the law of Scotland,
from the throne to the cottage, as far as we can learn it by record;'[1244] observing that
the estate of our family had not been limited to heirs male; and that though an heir male had
in one instance been chosen in preference to nearer females, that had been an arbitrary act,
which had seemed to be best in the embarrassed state of affairs at that time; and the fact
was, that upon a fair computation of the value of land and money at the time, applied to the
estate and the burthens upon it, there was nothing given to the heir male but the skeleton
of an estate. 'The plea of conscience (said his Lordship,) which you put, is a most respectable
one, especially when conscience and self are on different sides. But I think that conscience
is not well informed, and that self and she ought on this occasion to be of a side.'

This letter, which had considerable influence upon my mind, I sent to Dr. Johnson, begging
to hear from him again, upon this interesting question.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Having not any acquaintance with the laws or customs of Scotland, I endeavoured to consider
your question upon general principles, and found nothing of much validity that I could oppose
to this position: "He who inherits a fief unlimited by his ancestors, inherits the power of
limiting it according to his own judgement or opinion." If this be true, you may join with
your father.

'Further consideration produces another conclusion: "He who receives a fief unlimited by his
ancestors, gives his heirs some reason to complain, if he does not transmit it unlimited to
posterity. For why should he make the state of others worse than his own, without a reason?"
If this be true, though neither you nor your father are about to do what is quite right, but
as your father violates (I think) the legal succession least, he seems to be nearer the right
than yourself.

'It cannot but occur that "Women have natural and equitable claims as well as men, and these
claims are not to be capriciously or lightly superseded or infringed." When fiefs implied military
service, it is easily discerned why females could not inherit them; but that reason is now
at an end. As manners make laws, manners likewise repeal them.

'These are the general conclusions which I have attained. None of them are very favourable
to your scheme of entail, nor perhaps to any scheme. My observation, that only he who acquires
an estate may bequeath it capriciously[1245], if it contains any conviction, includes this
position likewise, that only he who acquires an estate may entail it capriciously. But I think
it may be safely presumed, that "he who inherits an estate, inherits all the power legally
concomitant;" and that "He who gives or leaves unlimited an estate legally limitable, must
be presumed to give that power of limitation which he omitted to take away, and to commit future
contingencies to future prudence." In these two positions I believe Lord Hailes will advise
you to rest; every other notion of possession seems to me full of difficulties and embarrassed
with scruples.

'If these axioms be allowed, you have arrived now at full liberty without the help of particular
circumstances, which, however, have in your case great weight. You very rightly observe, that
he who passing by his brother gave the inheritance to his nephew, could limit no more than
he gave; and by Lord Hailes's estimate of fourteen years' purchase, what he gave was no more
than you may easily entail according to your own opinion, if that opinion should finally prevail.

'Lord Hailes's suspicion that entails are encroachments on the dominion of Providence, may
be extended to all hereditary privileges and all permanent institutions; I do not see why it
may not be extended to any provision for the present hour, since all care about futurity proceeds
upon a supposition, that we know at least in some degree what will be future. Of the future
we certainly know nothing; but we may form conjectures from the past; and the power of forming
conjectures, includes, in my opinion, the duty of acting in conformity to that probability
which we discover. Providence gives the power, of which reason teaches the use.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Your most faithful servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 9. 1776.'

'I hope I shall get some ground now with Mrs. Boswell; make my compliments to her, and to the
little people.

'Don't burn papers; they may be safe enough in your own box,--you will wish to see them hereafter.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'To the letters which I have written about your great question I have nothing to add. If your
conscience is satisfied, you have now only your prudence to consult. I long for a letter, that
I may know how this troublesome and vexatious question is at last decided[1246]. I hope that
it will at last end well. Lord Hailes's letter was very friendly, and very seasonable, but
I think his aversion from entails has something in it like superstition. Providence is not
counteracted by any means which Providence puts into our power. The continuance and propagation
of families makes a great part of the Jewish law, and is by no means prohibited in the Christian
institution, though the necessity of it continues no longer. Hereditary tenures are established
in all civilised countries, and are accompanied in most with hereditary authority. Sir William
Temple considers our constitution as defective, that there is not an unalienable estate in
land connected with a peerage[1247]; and Lord Bacon mentions as a proof that the Turks are
Barbarians, their want of Stirpes, as he calls them, or hereditary rank[1248]. Do not let your
mind, when it is freed from the supposed necessity of a rigorous entail, be entangled with
contrary objections, and think all entails unlawful, till you have cogent arguments, which
I believe you will never find. I am afraid of scruples[1249].

'I have now sent all Lord Hailes's papers; part I found hidden in a drawer in which I had laid
them for security, and had forgotten them. Part of these are written twice: I have returned
both the copies. Part I had read before.

'Be so kind as to return Lord Hailes my most respectful thanks for his first volume; his accuracy
strikes me with wonder; his narrative is far superiour to that of Henault, as I have formerly
mentioned.

'I am afraid that the trouble, which my irregularity and delay has cost him, is greater, far
greater, than any good that I can do him will ever recompense; but if I have any more copy,
I will try to do better.

'Pray let me know if Mrs. Boswell is friends with me, and pay my respects to Veronica, and
Euphemia, and Alexander.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'February, 15, 1775 [1776].'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 20, 1776.

       *       *       *       *       *

'You have illuminated my mind and relieved me from imaginary shackles of conscientious obligation.
Were it necessary, I could immediately join in an entail upon the series of heirs approved
by my father; but it is better not to act too suddenly.'

'DR. JOHNSON TO MR. BOSWELL.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am glad that what I could think or say has at all contributed to quiet your thoughts. Your
resolution not to act, till your opinion is confirmed by more deliberation, is very just. If
you have been scrupulous, do not now be rash. I hope that as you think more, and take opportunities
of talking with men intelligent in questions of property, you will be able to free yourself
from every difficulty.

'When I wrote last, I sent, I think, ten packets. Did you receive them all?

'You must tell Mrs. Boswell that I suspected her to have written without your knowledge[1250],
and therefore did not return any answer, lest a clandestine correspondence should have been
perniciously discovered. I will write to her soon.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Most affectionately yours,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 24, 1776.'

Having communicated to Lord Hailes what Dr. Johnson wrote concerning the question which perplexed
me so much, his Lordship wrote to me: 'Your scruples have produced more fruit than I ever expected
from them; an excellent dissertation on general principles of morals and law.'

I wrote to Dr. Johnson on the 20th of February, complaining of melancholy, and expressing a
strong desire to be with him; informing him that the ten packets came all safe; that Lord Hailes
was much obliged to him, and said he had almost wholly removed his scruples against entails.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have not had your letter half an hour; as you lay so much weight upon my notions, I should
think it not just to delay my answer.

'I am very sorry that your melancholy should return, and should be sorry likewise if it could
have no relief but from company. My counsel you may have when you are pleased to require it;
but of my company you cannot in the next month have much, for Mr. Thrale will take me to Italy,
he says, on the first of April.

'Let me warn you very earnestly against scruples. I am glad that you are reconciled to your
settlement, and think it a great honour to have shaken Lord Hailes's opinion of entails. Do
not, however, hope wholly to reason away your troubles; do not feed them with attention, and
they will die imperceptibly away. Fix your thoughts upon your business, fill your intervals
with company, and sunshine will again break in upon your mind[1251]. If you will come to me,
you must come very quickly; and even then I know not but we may scour the country together,
for I have a mind to see Oxford and Lichfield, before I set out on this long journey. To this
I can only add, that

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 5, 1776.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'Very early in April we leave England, and in the beginning of the next week I shall leave
London for a short time; of this I think it necessary to inform you, that you may not be disappointed
in any of your enterprises. I had not fully resolved to go into the country before this day.

'Please to make my compliments to Lord Hailes; and mention very particularly to Mrs. Boswell
my hope that she is reconciled to, Sir,

'Your faithful servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 12, 1776.'

Above thirty years ago, the heirs of Lord Chancellor Clarendon presented the University of
Oxford with the continuation of his History, and such other of his Lordship's manuscripts as
had not been published, on condition that the profits arising from their publication should
be applied to the establishment of a Manege in the University. The gift was accepted in full
convocation. A person being now recommended to Dr. Johnson, as fit to superintend this proposed
riding-school, he exerted himself with that zeal for which he was remarkable upon every similar
occasion[1252]. But, on enquiry into the matter, he found that the scheme was not likely to
be soon carried into execution; the profits arising from the Clarendon press being, from some
mismanagement, very scanty. This having been explained to him by a respectable dignitary of
the church, who had good means of knowing it, he wrote a letter upon the subject, which at
once exhibits his extraordinary precision and acuteness, and his warm attachment to his ALMA MATER.

'To THE REVEREND DR. WETHERELL, MASTER OF UNIVERSITY-COLLEGE, OXFORD.

'DEAR SIR,

'Few things are more unpleasant than the transaction of business with men who are above knowing
or caring what they have to do; such as the trustees for Lord Cornbury's institution will,
perhaps, appear, when you have read Dr. ----'s letter.

'The last part of the Doctor's letter is of great importance. The complaint[1253] which he
makes I have heard long ago, and did not know but it was redressed. It is unhappy that a practice
so erroneous has not yet been altered; for altered it must be, or our press will be useless,
with all its privileges. The booksellers, who, like all other men, have strong prejudices in
their own favour, are enough inclined to think the practice of printing and selling books by
any but themselves, an encroachment on the rights of their fraternity; and have need of stronger
inducements to circulate academical publications than those of one another; for, of that mutual
co-operation by which the general trade is carried on, the University can bear no part. Of
those whom he neither loves nor fears, and from whom he expects no reciprocation of good offices,
why should any man promote the interest but for profit? I suppose, with all our scholastick
ignorance of mankind, we are still too knowing to expect that the booksellers will erect themselves
into patrons, and buy and sell under the influence of a disinterested zeal for the promotion
of learning.

'To the booksellers, if we look for either honour or profit from our press, not only their
common profit, but something more must be allowed; and if books, printed at Oxford, are expected
to be rated at a high price, that price must be levied on the publick, and paid by the ultimate
purchaser, not by the intermediate agents. What price shall be set upon the book, is, to the
booksellers, wholly indifferent, provided that they gain a proportionate profit by negociating
the sale.

'Why books printed at Oxford should be particularly dear, I am, however, unable to find. We
pay no rent; we inherit many of our instruments and materials; lodging and victuals are cheaper
than at London; and, therefore, workmanship ought, at least, not to be dearer. Our expences
are naturally less than those of booksellers; and, in most cases, communities are content with
less profit than individuals.

'It is, perhaps, not considered through how many hands a book often passes, before it comes
into those of the reader; or what part of the profit each hand must retain, as a motive for
transmitting it to the next.

'We will call our primary agent in London, Mr. Cadell[1254], who receives our books from us,
gives them room in his warehouse, and issues them on demand; by him they are sold to Mr. Dilly
a wholesale bookseller, who sends them into the country; and the last seller is the country
bookseller. Here are three profits to be paid between the printer and the reader, or in the
style of commerce, between the manufacturer and the consumer; and if any of these profits is
too penuriously distributed, the process of commerce is interrupted.

'We are now come to the practical question, what is to be done? You will tell me, with reason,
that I have said nothing, till I declare how much, according to my opinion, of the ultimate
price ought to be distributed through the whole succession of sale.

'The deduction, I am afraid, will appear very great: but let it be considered before it is
refused. We must allow, for profit, between thirty and thirty-five per cent., between six and
seven shillings in the pound; that is, for every book which costs the last buyer twenty shillings,
we must charge Mr. Cadell with something less than fourteen. We must set the copies at fourteen
shillings each, and superadd what is called the quarterly-book, or for every hundred books
so charged we must deliver an hundred and four.

'The profits will then stand thus:--

'Mr. Cadell, who runs no hazard, and gives no credit, will be paid for warehouse room and attendance
by a shilling profit on each book, and his chance of the quarterly-book.

'Mr. Dilly, who buys the book for fifteen shillings, and who will expect the quarterly-book
if he takes five and twenty, will send it to his country customer at sixteen and six, by which,
at the hazard of loss, and the certainty of long credit, he gains the regular profit of ten
per cent, which is expected in the wholesale trade.

'The country bookseller, buying at sixteen and sixpence, and commonly trusting a considerable
time, gains but three and sixpence, and if he trusts a year, not much more than two and sixpence;
otherwise than as he may, perhaps, take as long credit as he gives.

'With less profit than this, and more you see he cannot have, the country bookseller cannot
live; for his receipts are small, and his debts sometimes bad.

'Thus, dear Sir, I have been incited by Dr. ----'s letter to give you a detail of the circulation
of books, which, perhaps, every man has not had opportunity of knowing; and which those who
know it, do not, perhaps, always distinctly consider.

'I am, &c. 'SAM.

I mentioned with much regret the extravagance of the representative of a great family in Scotland,
by which there was danger of its being ruined; and as Johnson respected it for its antiquity,
he joined with me in thinking it would be happy if this person should die. Mrs. Thrale seemed
shocked at this, as feudal barbarity; and said, 'I do not understand this preference of the
estate to its owner; of the land to the man who walks upon that land.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Madam,
it is not a preference of the land to its owner, it is the preference of a family to an individual.
Here is an establishment in a country, which is of importance for ages, not only to the chief
but to his people; an establishment which extends upwards and downwards; that this should be
destroyed by one idle fellow is a sad thing.'

He said, 'Entails[1260] are good, because it is good to preserve in a country, serieses of
men, to whom the people are accustomed to look up as to their leaders. But I am for leaving
a quantity of land in commerce, to excite industry, and keep money in the country; for if no
land were to be bought in the country, there would be no encouragement to acquire wealth, because
a family could not be founded there; or if it were acquired, it must be carried away to another
country where land may be bought. And although the land in every country will remain the same,
and be as fertile where there is no money, as where there is, yet all that portion of the happiness
of civil life, which is produced by money circulating in a country, would be lost.' BOSWELL.
'Then, Sir, would it be for the advantage of a country that all its lands were sold at once?'
JOHNSON. 'So far, Sir, as money produces good, it would be an advantage; for, then that country
would have as much money circulating in it as it is worth. But to be sure this would be counterbalanced
by disadvantages attending a total change of proprietors.'

I expressed my opinion that the power of entailing should be limited thus: 'That there should
be one third, or perhaps one half of the land of a country kept free for commerce; that the
proportion allowed to be entailed, should be parcelled out so that no family could entail above
a certain quantity. Let a family according to the abilities of its representatives, be richer
or poorer in different generations, or always rich if its representatives be always wise: but
let its absolute permanency be moderate. In this way we should be certain of there being always
a number of established roots; and as in the course of nature, there is in every age an extinction
of some families, there would be continual openings for men ambitious of perpetuity, to plant
a stock in the entail ground[1261].' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, mankind will be better able to regulate
the system of entails, when the evil of too much land being locked up by them is felt, than
we can do at present when it is not felt.' I mentioned Dr. Adam Smith's book on The Wealth
of Nations[1262] which was just published, and that Sir John Pringle had observed to me, that
Dr. Smith, who had never been in trade, could not be expected to write well on that subject
any more than a lawyer upon physick. JOHNSON. 'He is mistaken, Sir: a man who has never been
engaged in trade himself may undoubtedly write well upon trade, and there is nothing which
requires more to be illustrated by philosophy than trade does. As to mere wealth, that is to
say, money, it is clear that one nation or one individual cannot increase its store but by
making another poorer: but trade procures what is more valuable, the reciprocation of the peculiar
advantages of different countries. A merchant seldom thinks but of his own particular trade.
To write a good book upon it, a man must have extensive views. It is not necessary to have
practised, to write well upon a subject.' I mentioned law as a subject on which no man could
write well without practice. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, in England, where so much money is to be got
by the practice of the law, most of our writers upon it have been in practice; though Blackstone
had not been much in practice when he published his Commentaries. But upon the Continent, the
great writers on law have not all been in practice: Grotius, indeed, was; but Puffendorf was
not, Burlamaqui was not.'

When we had talked of the great consequence which a man acquired by being employed in his profession,
I suggested a doubt of the justice of the general opinion, that it is improper in a lawyer
to solicit employment; for why, I urged, should it not be equally allowable to solicit that
as the means of consequence, as it is to solicit votes to be elected a member of Parliament?
Mr. Strahan had told me that a countryman of his and mine[1263], who had risen to eminence
in the law, had, when first making his way, solicited him to get him employed in city causes.
JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is wrong to stir up law-suits; but when once it is certain that a law-suit
is to go on, there is nothing wrong in a lawyer's endeavouring that he shall have the benefit,
rather than another.' BOSWELL. 'You would not solicit employment, Sir, if you were a lawyer.'
JOHNSON. 'No, Sir, but not because I should think it wrong, but because I should disdain it.'
This was a good distinction, which will be felt by men of just pride. He proceeded: 'However,
I would not have a lawyer to be wanting to himself in using fair means. I would have him to
inject a little hint now and then, to prevent his being overlooked.'

Lord Mountstuart's bill for a Scotch Militia[1264], in supporting which his Lordship had made
an able speech in the House of Commons, was now a pretty general topick of conversation. JOHNSON.
'As Scotland contributes so little land-tax[1265] towards the general support of the nation,
it ought not to have a militia paid out of the general fund, unless it should be thought for
the general interest, that Scotland should be protected from an invasion, which no man can
think will happen; for what enemy would invade Scotland, where there is nothing to be got?
No, Sir; now that the Scotch have not the pay of English soldiers spent among them, as so many
troops are sent abroad, they are trying to get money another way, by having a militia paid.
If they are afraid, and seriously desire to have an armed force to defend them, they should
pay for it. Your scheme is to retain a part of your land-tax, by making us pay and clothe your
militia.' BOSWELL. 'You should not talk of we and you, Sir: there is now an Union.' JOHNSON.
'There must be a distinction of interest, while the proportions of land-tax are so unequal.
If Yorkshire should say, "Instead of paying our land-tax, we will keep a greater number of
militia," it would be unreasonable.' In this argument my friend was certainly in the wrong.
The land-tax is as unequally proportioned between different parts of England, as between England
and Scotland; nay, it is considerably unequal in Scotland itself. But the land-tax is but a
small part of the numerous branches of publick revenue, all of which Scotland pays precisely
as England does. A French invasion made in Scotland would soon penetrate into England.

He thus discoursed upon supposed obligation in settling estates:--'Where a man gets the unlimited
property of an estate, there is no obligation upon him in justice to leave it to one person
rather than to another. There is a motive of preference from kindness, and this kindness is
generally entertained for the nearest relation. If I owe a particular man a sum of money, I
am obliged to let that man have the next money I get, and cannot in justice let another have
it: but if I owe money to no man, I may dispose of what I get as I please. There is not a debitum
justitice to a man's next heir; there is only a debitum caritatis. It is plain, then, that
I have morally a choice, according to my liking. If I have a brother in want, he has a claim
from affection to my assistance; but if I have also a brother in want, whom I like better,
he has a preferable claim. The right of an heir at law is only this, that he is to have the
succession to an estate, in case no other person is appointed to it by the owner. We talked
of religious orders. He said, 'It is as unreasonable for a man to go into a Carthusian convent
for fear of being immoral, as for a man to cut off his hands for fear he should steal. There
is, indeed, great resolution in the immediate act of dismembering himself; but when that is
once done, he has no longer any merit: for though it is out of his power to steal, yet he may
all his life be a thief in his heart. So when a man has once become a Carthusian, he is obliged
to continue so, whether he chooses it or not. Their silence, too, is absurd. We read in the
Gospel of the apostles being sent to preach, but not to hold their tongues. All severity that
does not tend to increase good, or prevent evil, is idle. I said to the Lady Abbess[1271] of
a convent, "Madam, you are here, not for the love of virtue, but the fear of vice." She said,
"She should remember this as long as she lived."' I thought it hard to give her this view of
her situation, when she could not help it; and, indeed, I wondered at the whole of what he
now said; because, both in his Rambler[1272] and Idler[1273], he treats religious austerities
with much solemnity of respect[1274]. With those who have partaken of wine with him, he may
be pretty well in unison; but he will probably be offensive, or appear ridiculous, to other
people.'

He allowed very great influence to education. 'I do not deny, Sir, but there is some original
difference in minds; but it is nothing in comparison of what is formed by education. We may
instance the science of numbers, which all minds are equally capable of attaining[1279]; yet
we find a prodigious difference in the powers of different men, in that respect, after they
are grown up, because their minds have been more or less exercised in it: and I think the same
cause will explain the difference of excellence in other things, gradations admitting always
some difference in the first principles[1280].' This is a difficult subject; but it is best
to hope that diligence may do a great deal. We are sure of what it can do, in increasing our
mechanical force and dexterity.

I again visited him on Monday. He took occasion to enlarge, as he often did, upon the wretchedness
of a sea-life[1281]. I often had occasion to remark, Johnson loved business[1289], loved to
have his wisdom actually operate on real life. Dr. Wetherell and I talked of him without reserve
in his own presence. WETHERELL. 'I would have given him a hundred guineas if he would have
written a preface to his Political Tracts[1290], by way of a Discourse on the British Constitution.'
BOSWELL. 'Dr. Johnson, though in his writings, and upon all occasions a great friend to the
constitution both in church and state, has never written expressly in support of either. There
is really a claim upon him for both. I am sure he could give a volume of no great bulk upon
each, which would comprise all the substance, and with his spirit would effectually maintain
them. He should erect a fort on the confines of each.' I could perceive that he was displeased
with this dialogue. He burst out, 'Why should I be always writing[1291]?' I hoped he was conscious
that the debt was just, and meant to discharge it, though he disliked being dunned. He told
me he had once dined in company with Hume in London[1292]; that Hume shook hands with him,
and said, 'You have treated me much better than I deserve;' and that they exchanged visits.
I took the liberty to object to treating an infidel writer with smooth civility. Where there
is a controversy concerning a passage in a classick authour, or concerning a question in antiquities,
or any other subject in which human happiness is not deeply interested, a man may treat his
antagonist with politeness and even respect. But where the controversy is concerning the truth
of religion, it is of such vast importance to him who maintains it, to obtain the victory,
that the person of an opponent ought not to be spared. If a man firmly believes that religion
is an invaluable treasure[1293], he will consider a writer who endeavours to deprive mankind
of it as a robber; he will look upon him as odious, though the infidel might think himself
in the right. A robber who reasons as the gang do in the Beggar's Opera, who call themselves
practical philosophers[1294], and may have as much sincerity as pernicious speculative philosophers,
is not the less an object of just indignation. An abandoned profligate may think that it is
not wrong to debauch my wife, but shall I, therefore, not detest him? And if I catch him in
making an attempt, shall I treat him with politeness? No, I will kick him down stairs, or run
him through the body; that is, if I really love my wife, or have a true rational notion of
honour. An infidel then shall not be treated handsomely by a Christian, merely because he endeavours
to rob with ingenuity. I do declare, however, that I am exceedingly unwilling to be provoked
to anger, and could I be persuaded that truth would not suffer from a cool moderation in its
defenders, I should wish to preserve good humour, at least, in every controversy; nor, indeed,
do I see why a man should lose his temper while he does all he can to refute an opponent. I
think ridicule may be fairly used against an infidel; for instance, if he be an ugly fellow,
and yet absurdly vain of his person[1295], we may contrast his appearance with Cicero's beautiful
image of Virtue, could she be seen[1296]. Johnson coincided with me and said, 'When a man voluntarily
engages in an important controversy, he is to do all he can to lessen his antagonist, because
authority from personal respect has much weight with most people, and often more than reasoning[1297].
If my antagonist writes bad language, though that may not be essential to the question, I will
attack him for his bad language.' ADAMS. 'You would not jostle a chimney-sweeper.' JOHNSON.
You know it was said, "Mallem cum Scaligero errare quam cum Clavio recte sapere[1300]." He
had talked of publishing an edition of Walton's Lives[1305], but had laid aside that design,
upon Dr. Johnson's telling him, from mistake, that Lord Hailes intended to do it. I had wished
to negociate between Lord Hailes and him, that one or other should perform so good a work.
JOHNSON. 'In order to do it well, it will be necessary to collect all the editions of Walton's
Lives. JOHNSON. Johnson, though he valued him highly, was of opinion that there was not so
much in his great work, A Political Survey of Great Britain, as the world had been taught to
expect[1315]; and had said to me, that he believed Campbell's disappointment, on account of
the bad success of that work, had killed him. He this evening observed of it, 'That work was
his death.' Mr. Warton, not adverting to his meaning, answered, 'I believe so; from the great
attention he bestowed on it.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, he died of want of attention, if he died
at all by that book.'

We talked of a work much in vogue at that time, written in a very mellifluous style, but which,
under pretext of another subject, contained much artful infidelity[1316]. I said it was not
fair to attack us thus unexpectedly; he should have warned us of our danger, before we entered
his garden of flowery eloquence, by advertising, 'Spring guns and men-traps set here[1317].'
The authour had been an Oxonian, and was remembered there for having 'turned Papist.' I observed,
that as he had changed several times--from the Church of England to the Church of Rome,--from
the Church of Rome to infidelity,--I did not despair yet of seeing him a methodist preacher.
JOHNSON, (laughing.) 'It is said, that his range has been more extensive, and that he has once
been Mahometan[1318]. However, now that he has published his infidelity, he will probably persist
in it.' BOSWELL. He joined with me, and said, 'Nothing odd will do long. That ingenious and
elegant gentleman's opinion of Johnson appears in one of his letters to Mr. Graves[1334], dated
Feb. 9, 1760. 'I have lately been reading one or two volumes of The Rambler; who, excepting
against some few hardnesses[1335] in his manner, and the want of more examples to enliven,
is one of the most nervous, most perspicuous, most concise, [and] most harmonious prose writers
I know.

This passage does not appear in the printed work. Dr. Grainger, or some of his friends, it
should seem, having become sensible that introducing even Rats in a grave poem, might be liable
to banter.

He mentioned to me the singular history of an ingenious acquaintance. 'He had practised physick
in various situations with no great emolument. A West-India gentleman, whom he delighted by
his conversation, gave him a bond for a handsome annuity during his life, on the condition
of his accompanying him to the West-Indies, and living with him there for two years. He accordingly
embarked with the gentleman; but upon the voyage fell in love with a young woman who happened
to be one of the passengers, and married the wench. From the imprudence of his disposition
he quarrelled with the gentleman, and declared he would have no connection with him. So he
forfeited the annuity. He settled as a physician in one of the Leeward Islands. A man was sent
out to him merely to compound his medicines.

I talked of legitimation by subsequent marriage, which obtained in the Roman law, and still
obtains in the law of Scotland. JOHNSON. 'I think it a bad thing; because the chastity of women
being of the utmost importance, as all property depends upon it, they who forfeit it should
not have any possibility of being restored to good character; nor should the children, by an
illicit connection, attain the full right of lawful children, by the posteriour consent of
the offending parties.' His opinion upon this subject deserves consideration. Upon his principle
there may, at times, be a hardship, and seemingly a strange one, upon individuals; but the
general good of society is better secured. And, after all, it is unreasonable in an individual
to repine that he has not the advantage of a state which is made different from his own, by
the social institution under which he is born. A woman does not complain that her brother,
who is younger than her, gets their common father's estate. Why then should a natural son complain
that a younger brother, by the same parents lawfully begotten, gets it? The operation of law
is similar in both cases. Besides, an illegitimate son, who has a younger legitimate brother
by the same father and mother, has no stronger claim to the father's estate, than if that legitimate
brother had only the same father, from whom alone the estate descends.

As Dr. Johnson had said to me in the morning, while we walked together, that he liked individuals
among the Quakers, but not the sect; when we were at Mr. Lloyd's, I kept clear of introducing
any questions concerning the peculiarities of their faith. But I having asked to look at Baskerville's
edition of Barclay's Apology, Johnson laid hold of it; and the chapter on baptism happening
to open, Johnson remarked, 'He says there is neither precept nor practice for baptism, in the
scriptures; that is false.' Here he was the aggressor, by no means in a gentle manner; and
the good Quakers had the advantage of him; for he had read negligently, and had not observed
that Barclay speaks of infant baptism[1345]; which they calmly made him perceive. Mr. Lloyd,
however, was in as great a mistake; for when insisting that the rite of baptism by water was
to cease, when the spiritual administration of CHRIST began, he maintained, that John the Baptist
said, 'My baptism shall decrease, but his shall increase.' Whereas the words are, 'He must
increase, but I must decrease[1346].'

One of them having objected to the 'observance of days, and months, and years,' Johnson answered,
'The Church does not superstitiously observe days, merely as days, but as memorials of important
facts. Christmas might be kept as well upon one day of the year as another; but there should
be a stated day for commemorating the birth of our Saviour, because there is danger that what
may be done on any day, will be neglected.'

He said to me at another time, 'Sir, the holidays observed by our church are of great use in
religion.' There can be no doubt of this, in a limited sense, I mean if the number of such
consecrated portions of time be not too extensive. The excellent Mr. Nelson's[1347] Festivals
and Fasts, which has, I understand, the greatest sale of any book ever printed in England,
except the Bible, is a most valuable help to devotion; and in addition to it I would recommend
two sermons on the same subject, by Mr. Pott, Archdeacon of St. Alban's, equally distinguished
for piety and elegance. I am sorry to have it to say, that Scotland is the only Christian country,
Catholick or Protestant, where the great events of our religion are not solemnly commemorated
by its ecclesiastical establishment, on days set apart for the purpose.

Mr. Hector was so good as to accompany me to see the great works of Mr. Bolton, at a place
which he has called Soho, about two miles from Birmingham, which the very ingenious proprietor
shewed me himself to the best advantage. I wish Johnson had been with us: for it was a scene
which I should have been glad to contemplate by his light[1348]. The vastness and the contrivance
of some of the machinery would have 'matched his mighty mind.' I shall never forget Mr. Bolton's
expression to me: 'I sell here, Sir, what all the world desires to have--POWER.' He had about
seven hundred people at work. I contemplated him as an iron chieftain, and he seemed to be
a father to his tribe. One of them came to him, complaining grievously of his landlord for
having distrained his goods.' 'Your landlord is in the right, Smith, (said Bolton). But I'll
tell you what: find you a friend who will lay down one half of your rent, and I'll lay down
the other half; and you shall have your goods again.'

From Mr. Hector I now learnt many particulars of Dr. Johnson's early life, which, with others
that he gave me at different times since, have contributed to the formation of this work. His
engraved portrait, with which he has favoured me, has a motto truely characteristical of his
disposition, 'Nemo sibi vivat.'

A physician being mentioned who had lost his practice, because his whimsically changing his
religion had made people distrustful of him, I maintained that this was unreasonable, as religion
is unconnected with medical skill. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is not unreasonable; for when people see
a man absurd in what they understand, they may conclude the same of him in what they do not
understand. If a physician were to take to eating of horse-flesh, nobody would employ him;
though one may eat horse-flesh, and be a very skilful physician. Mr. Seward had, with ecclesiastical
hospitality and politeness, asked me in the morning, merely as a stranger, to dine with him;
and in the afternoon, when I was introduced to him, he asked Dr. Johnson and me to spend the
evening and sup with him. He was a genteel well-bred dignified clergyman, had travelled with
Lord Charles Fitzroy, uncle of the present Duke of Grafton, who died when abroad, and he had
lived much in the great world. He was an ingenious and literary man, had published an edition
of Beaumont and Fletcher, and written verses in Dodsley's collection. His lady was the daughter
of Mr. Hunter, Johnson's first schoolmaster. And now, for the first time, I had the pleasure
of seeing his celebrated daughter, Miss Anna Seward, to whom I have since been indebted for
many civilities, as well as some obliging communications concerning Johnson[1375].

Mr. Seward mentioned to us the observations which he had made upon the strata of earth in volcanos,
from which it appeared, that they were so very different in depth at different periods, that
no calculation whatever could be made as to the time required for their formation. This fully
refuted an antimosaical remark introduced into Captain Brydone's entertaining tour, I hope
heedlessly, from a kind of vanity which is too common in those who have not sufficiently studied
the most important of all subjects.

He observed of Lord Bute, 'It was said of Augustus, that it would have been better for Rome
that he had never been born, or had never died. JOHNSON. 'Sir, there is no trusting to that
crazy piety.'

I observed that it was strange how well Scotchmen were known to one another in their own country,
though born in very distant counties; for we do not find that the gentlemen of neighbouring
counties in England are mutually known to each other. Johnson, with his usual acuteness, at
once saw and explained the reason of this; 'Why, Sir, you have Edinburgh, where the gentlemen
from all your counties meet, and which is not so large but they are all known.

Next day we talked of a book[1393] in which an eminent judge was arraigned before the bar of
the publick, as having pronounced an unjust decision in a great cause. Dr. Johnson maintained
that this publication would not give any uneasiness to the judge. 'For (said he,) either he
acted honestly, or he meant to do injustice.

APPENDIX A. (Page 17.)

In the Bodleian is the following autograph record by Johnson of Good Friday, March 28, Easter
Sunday, March 30, and May 4, 1766, and the copy of the record of Saturday, March 29. They belong
to the series published by the Rev. Mr. Strahan under the title of Prayers and Meditations,
but they are not included in it.

'Good Friday, March 28, 1766.--On the night before I used proper Collects, and prayed when
I arose in the morning. I had all the week an awe upon me, not thinking on Passion week till
I looked in the almanack. I have wholly forborne M [? meat] and wines, except one glass on
Sunday night.

'In the morning I rose, and drank very small tea without milk, and had nothing more that day.

'This was the day on which Tetty died. I did not mingle much men [? mention] of her with the
devotions of this day, because it is dedicated to more holy subjects. I mentioned her at church,
and prayed once solemnly at home. I was twice at church, and went through the prayers without
perturbation, but heard the sermons imperfectly. I came in both times at the second lesson,
not hearing the bell.

'When I came home I read the Psalms for the day, and one sermon in Clark. Scruples distract
me, but at church I had hopes to conquer them.

'I bore abstinence this day not well, being at night insupportably heavy, but as fasting does
not produce sleepyness, I had perhaps rested ill the night before. I prayed in my study for
the day, and prayed again in my chamber. I went to bed very early--before eleven.

'After church I selected collects for the Sacraments.

'Finding myself upon recollection very ignorant of religion, I formed a purpose of studying it.

'I went down and sat to tea, but was too heavy to converse.

'Saturday, 29.--I rose at the time now usual, not fully refreshed. Went to tea. A sudden thought
of restraint hindered me. I drank but one dish. Took a purge for my health. Still uneasy. Prayed,
and went to dinner. Dined sparingly on fish [added in different ink] about four. Went to Simpson.
Was driven home by my physick. Drank tea, and am much refreshed. I believe that if I had drank
tea again yesterday, I had escaped the heaviness of the evening. Fasting that produces inability
is no duty, but I was unwilling to do less than formerly.

'I had lived more abstemiously than is usual the whole week, and taken physick twice, which
together made the fast more uneasy.

'Thus much I have written medically, to show that he who can fast long must have lived plentifully.

'Saturday, March 29, 1766.--I was yesterday very heavy. I do not feel myself to-day so much
impressed with awe of the approaching mystery. I had this day a doubt, like Baxter, of my state,
and found that my faith, though weak, was yet faith. O God! strengthen it.

'Since the last reception of the sacrament I hope I have no otherwise grown worse than as continuance
in sin makes the sinner's condition more dangerous.

'Since last New Year's Eve I have risen every morning by eight, at least not after nine, which
is more superiority over my habits than I have ever before been able to obtain. Scruples still
distress me. My resolution, with the blessing of God, is to contend with them, and, if I can,
to conquer them.

'My resolutions are-- 'To conquer scruples. 'To read the Bible this year. 'To try to rise more
early. 'To study Divinity. 'To live methodically. 'To oppose idleness. 'To frequent Divine worship.

'Almighty and most merciful Father! before whom I now appear laden with the sins of another
year, suffer me yet again to call upon Thee for pardon and peace.

'O God! grant me repentance, grant me reformation. Grant that I may be no longer distracted
with doubts, and harassed with vain terrors. Grant that I may no longer linger in perplexity,
nor waste in idleness that life which Thou hast given and preserved. Grant that I may serve
Thee in firm faith and diligent endeavour, and that I may discharge the duties of my calling
with tranquillity and constancy. Take not, O God, Thy holy Spirit from me: but grant that I
may so direct my life by Thy holy laws, as that, when Thou shalt call me hence, I may pass
by a holy and happy death to a life of everlasting and unchangeable joy, for the sake of Jesus
Christ our Lord. Amen.

'I went to bed (at) one or later; but did not sleep, tho' I knew not why.

'Easter Day, March 30, 1766.--I rose in the morning. Prayed. Took my prayer book to tea; drank
tea; planned my devotion for the church. I think prayed again. Went to church, was early. Went
through the prayers with fixed attention. Could not hear the sermon. After sermon, applied
myself to devotion. Troubled with Baxter's scruple, which was quieted as I returned home. It
occurred to me that the scruple itself was its own confutation.

'I used the prayer against scruples in the foregoing page in the pew, and commended (so far
as it was lawful) Tetty, dear Tetty, in a prayer by herself, then my other friends. What collects
I do not exactly remember. I gave a shilling. I then went towards the altar that I might hear
the service. The communicants were more than I ever saw. I kept back; used again the foregoing
prayer; again commended Tetty, and lifted up my heart for the rest. I prayed in the collect
for the fourteen S. after Trinity for encrease of Faith, Hope, and Charity, and deliverance
from scruples; this deliverance was the chief subject of my prayers. O God, hear me. I am now
to try to conquer them. After reception I repeated my petition, and again when I came home.
My dinner made me a little peevish; not much. After dinner I retired, and read in an hour and
a half the seven first chapters of St. Matthew in Greek. Glory be to God. God grant me to proceed
and improve, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.

'I went to Evening Prayers, and was undisturbed. At church in the morning it occurred to me
to consider about example of good any of my friends had set me. This is proper, in order to
the thanks returned for their good examples.

'My attainment of rising gives me comfort and hope. O God, for Jesus Christ's sake, bless me. Amen.

'After church, before and after dinner, I read Rotheram on Faith.

'After evening prayer I retired, and wrote this account.

'I then repeated the prayer of the day, with collects, and my prayer for night, and went down
to supper at near ten.

'May 4,--66. I have read since the noon of Easter day the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. Mark
in Greek.

'I have read Xenophon's Cyropaidia.'

BODLEIAN LIBRARY. SELECT AUTOGRAPHS. (MONTAGU.)

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX B. (Page 312.)

Johnson's sentiments towards his fellow-subjects in America have never, so far as I know, been
rightly stated. It was not because they fought for liberty that he had come to dislike them.
255), was not likely to wish that our plantations should be tyrannically governed. The man
who, 'in company with some very grave men at Oxford, gave as his toast, "Here's to the next
insurrection of the negroes in the West Indies"' (post, iii. 200), was not likely to condemn
insurrections in general. The key to his feelings is found in his indignant cry, 'How is it
that we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of negroes?' (Ib) He hated slavery
as perhaps no man of his time hated it. While the Quakers, who were almost the pioneers in
the Anti-slavery cause, were still slave-holders and slave-dealers, he lifted up his voice
against it. So early as 1740, when Washington was but a child of eight, he had maintained 'the
natural right of the negroes to liberty and independence.' (Works, vi. 313.) In 1756 he described
Jamaica as 'a place of great wealth and dreadful wickedness, a den of tyrants and a dungeon
of slaves.' (Ib vi. 130.) In 1759 he wrote:--'Of black men the numbers are too great who are
now repining under English cruelty.' (Ib iv. 407.) In the same year, in describing the cruelty
of the Portuguese discoverers, he said:--'We are openly told that they had the less scruple
concerning their treatment of the savage people, because they scarcely considered them as distinct
from beasts; and indeed, the practice of all the European nations, and among others of the
English barbarians that cultivate the southern islands of America, proves that this opinion,
however absurd and foolish, however wicked and injurious, still continues to prevail. Interest
and pride harden the heart, and it is in vain to dispute against avarice and power.' (Ib v.
218.) No miserable sophistry could convince him, with his clear mind and his ardour for liberty,
that slavery can be right. 'An individual,' he wrote (post, iii. 202), 'may, indeed, forfeit
his liberty by a crime; but he cannot by that crime forfeit the liberty of his children.' How
deeply he felt for the wrongs done to helpless races is shown in his dread of discoverers.
No man had a more eager curiosity, or more longed that the bounds of knowledge should be enlarged.
Yet he wrote:--'I do not much wish well to discoveries, for I am always afraid they will end
in conquest and robbery.' (Croker's Boswell, p. 248.) In his Life of Savage, written in 1744,
he said (Works, viii. 156):--'Savage has not forgotten ... to censure those crimes which have
been generally committed by the discoverers of new regions, and to expose the enormous wickedness
of making war upon barbarous nations because they cannot resist, and of invading countries
because they are fruitful.... He has asserted the natural equality of mankind, and endeavoured
to suppress that pride which inclines men to imagine that right is the consequence of power.'
He loved the University of Salamanca, because it gave it as its opinion that the conquest of
America by the Spaniards was not lawful (ante, i. 455). When, in 1756, the English and French
were at war in America, he said that 'such was the contest that no honest man could heartily
wish success to either party.... It was only the quarrel of two robbers for the spoils of a
passenger' (ante, i. 308, note 2). 27). Englishmen, as a nation, had no right to reproach their
fellow-subjects in America with being drivers of negroes; for England shared in the guilt and
the gain of that infamous traffic. Nay, even as the Virginian delegates to Congress in 1774
complained:--'Our repeated attempts to exclude all further importations of slaves from Africa
by prohibition, and by imposing duties which might amount to prohibition, have hitherto been
defeated by his Majesty's negative--thus preferring the immediate advantages of a few British
corsairs to the lasting interests of the American States, and to the rights of human nature,
deeply wounded by this infamous practice.' Bright's Speeches, ed. 1869, i. 171. Franklin (Memoirs,
ed. 1818, iii. 17), writing from London in 1772, speaks of 'the hypocrisy of this country,
which encourages such a detestable commerce by laws for promoting the Guinea trade; while it
piqued itself on its virtue, love of liberty, and the equity of its courts in setting free
a single negro.' From the slightest stain of this hypocrisy Johnson was free. He, at all events,
had a right to protest against 'the yelps' of those who, while they solemnly asserted that
among the unalienable rights of all men are liberty and the pursuit of happiness, yet themselves
were drivers of negroes.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Had he been 'busily employed' he would, no doubt, have finished the edition in a few months.
He himself had recorded at Easter, 1765: 'My time has been unprofitably spent, and seems as
a dream that has left nothing behind.' Pr. and Med., p. 61.

[2] Dedications had been commonly used as a means of getting money by flattery. I. D'Israeli
in his Calamities of Authors, i. 64, says:--'Fuller's Church History is disgraced by twelve
particular dedications. It was an expedient to procure dedication fees; for publishing books
by subscription was an art not yet discovered.' The price of the dedication of a play was,
he adds, in the time of George I, twenty guineas. So much then, at least, Johnson lost by not
dedicating Irene. However, when he addressed the Plan of his Dictionary to Lord Chesterfield
(ante, i. 183) he certainly came very near a dedication. Boswell, in the Hypochondriack, writes:--'For
my own part, I own I am proud enough. But I do not relish the stateliness of not dedicating
at all. I prefer pleasure to pride, and it appears to me that there is much pleasure in honestly
expressing one's admiration, esteem, or affection in a public manner, and in thus contributing
to the happiness of another by making him better pleased with himself.' London Mag. for 1782,
p. 454. His dedications were dedications of friendship, not of flattery or servility. He dedicated
his Tour to Corsica to Paoli, his Tour to the Hebrides to Malone, and his Life of Johnson to
Sir Joshua Reynolds. Goldsmith, in like manner, distrest though he so often was, dedicated
his Traveller to his brother, the Deserted Village to Sir Joshua, and She Stoops to Conquer
to Johnson.

[3] A passage in Boswell's letter to Malone of Jan. 29, 1791 (Croker's Boswell, p. 829), shows
that it is Reynolds of whom he is writing. 'I am,' he writes, 'to cancel a leaf of the first
volume, having found that though Sir Joshua certainly assured me he had no objection to my
mentioning that Johnson wrote a dedication for him, he now thinks otherwise. In that leaf occurs
the mention of Johnson having written to Dr. Leland, thanking the University of Dublin for
their diploma.' In the first edition, this mention of the letter is followed by the passage
above about dedications. It was no doubt Reynolds's Dedication of his Discourses to the King
in the year 1778 that Johnson wrote. The first sentence is in a high degree Johnsonian. 'The
regular progress of cultivated life is from necessaries to accommodations, from accommodations
to ornaments.'

[4] 'That is to say,' he added, 'to the last generation of the Royal Family.' See post, April
15, 1773. We may hope that the Royal Family were not all like the Duke of Gloucester, who,
when Gibbon brought him the second volume of the Decline and Fall, 'received him with much
good nature and affability, saying to him, as he laid the quarto on the table, "Another d----d
thick, square book! Always scribble, scribble, scribble! Eh! Mr. Gibbon?"' Best's Memorials, p. 68.

[5] Such care was needless. Boswell complained (post, June 24, 1774), that Johnson did not
answer his letters, but only sent him returns.

[6] 'On one of the days that my ague disturbed me least, I walked from the convent to Corte,
purposely to write a letter to Mr. Samuel Johnson. I told my revered friend, that from a kind
of superstition agreeable in a certain degree to him as well as to myself, I had, during my
travels, written to him from Loca Solennia, places in some measure sacred. That, as I had written
to him from the tomb of Melancthon (see post, June 28, 1777), sacred to learning and piety,
I now wrote to him from the palace of Pascal Paoli, sacred to wisdom and liberty.' Boswell's
Tour to Corsica, p. 218. How delighted would Boswell have been had he lived to see the way
in which he is spoken of by the biographer of Paoli: 'En traversant la Mediterranee sur de
freles navires pour venir s'asseoir au foyer de la nationalite Corse, des hommes graves tels
que Boswel et Volney obeissaient sans doute a un sentiment bien plus eleve qu' au besoin vulgaire
d'une puerile curiosite.' Histoire de Pascal Paoli, par A. Arrighi, i. 231. By every Corsican
of any education the name of Boswell is known and honoured. One of them told me that it was
in Boswell's pages that Paoli still lived for them. He informed me also of a family which still
preserved by tradition the remembrance of Boswell's visit to their ancestral home.

[7] The twelve following lines of this letter were published by Boswell in his Corsica (p.
219) without Johnson's leave. (See post, March 23, 1768.) Temple, to whom the book had been
shewn before publication, had, it should seem, advised Boswell to omit this extract. Boswell
replied:--'Your remarks are of great service to me ... but I must have my great preceptor,
Mr. Johnson, introduced.' Letters of Boswell, p. 122. In writing to excuse himself to Johnson
(post, April 26, 1768), he says, 'the temptation to publishing it was so strong.'

[8] 'Tell your Court,' said Paoli to Boswell, 'what you have seen here. They will be curious
to ask you. A man come from Corsica will be like a man come from the Antipodes.' Boswell's
Corsica, p. 188. He was not indeed the first 'native of this country' to go there. He found
in Bastia 'an English woman of Penrith, in Cumberland. When the Highlanders marched through
that country in the year 1745, she had married a soldier of the French picquets in the very
midst of all the confusion and danger, and when she could hardly understand one word he said.'
Ib, p. 226. Boswell nowhere quotes Mrs. Barbauld's fine lines on Corsica. Perhaps he was ashamed
of the praise of the wife of 'a little Presbyterian parson who kept an infant boarding school.'
(See post, under Dec. 17, 1775.) Yet he must have been pleased when he read:--

'Such were the working thoughts which swelled the breast Of generous Boswell; when with nobler
aim And views beyond the narrow beaten track By trivial fancy trod, he turned his course From
polished Gallia's soft delicious vales,' &c.

Mrs. Barbauld's Poems, i. 2.

[9] Murphy, in the Monthly Review, lxxvi. 376, thus describes Johnson's life in Johnson's Court
after he had received his pension. 'His friend Levett, his physician in ordinary, paid his
daily visits with assiduity; attended at all hours, made tea all the morning, talked what he
had to say, and did not expect an answer; or, if occasion required it, was mute, officious,
and ever complying.... There Johnson sat every morning, receiving visits, hearing the topics
of the day, and indolently trifling away the time. Chymistry afforded some amusement.' Hawkins
(Life, p. 452), says:--'An upper room, which had the advantages of a good light and free air,
he fitted up for a study. A silver standish and some useful plate, which he had been prevailed
on to accept as pledges of kindness from some who most esteemed him, together with furniture
that would not have disgraced a better dwelling, banished those appearances of squalid indigence
which, in his less happy days, disgusted those who came to see him.' Some of the plate Johnson
had bought. See post, April 15, 1781.

[10] It is remarkable, that Mr. Gray has employed somewhat the same image to characterise Dryden.
He, indeed, furnishes his car with but two horses, but they are of 'ethereal race':

'Behold where Dryden's less presumptuous car, Wide o'er the fields of glory bear Two coursers
of ethereal race, With necks in thunder cloath'd, and long resounding pace.'

Ode on the Progress of Poesy. BOSWELL. In the 'Life of Pope (Works, viii. 324) Johnson says:--'The
style of Dryden is capricious and varied; that of Pope is cautious and uniform. Dryden obeys
the motions of his own mind; Pope constrains his mind to his own rules of composition. Dryden
is sometimes vehement and rapid; Pope is always smooth, uniform, and gentle.'

[11] In the original laws or kings.

[12]

'The mind is its own place, and in itself Can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.'

Paradise Lost, i. 254.

'Caelum, non animum, mutant qui trans mare current.'

Horace, Epis. i. II. 27. See also ante, i. 381. note 2.

[13] 'I once inadvertently put him,' wrote Reynolds, 'in a situation from which none but a
man of perfect integrity could extricate himself. I pointed at some lines in The Traveller
which I told him I was sure he wrote. He hesitated a little; during this hesitation I recollected
myself, that, as I knew he would not lie, I put him in a cleft-stick, and should have had but
my due if he had given me a rough answer; but he only said, 'Sir, I did not write them, but
that you may not imagine that I have wrote more than I really have, the utmost I have wrote
in that poem, to the best of my recollection, is not more than eighteen lines. [Nine seems
the actual number.] It must be observed there was then an opinion about town that Dr. Johnson
wrote the whole poem for his friend, who was then in a manner an unknown writer.' Taylor's
Reynolds, ii. 458. See also post, April 9, 1778. For each line of The Traveller Goldsmith was
paid 11-1/4d. (ante, i. 193, note), Johnson's present, therefore, of nine lines was, if reckoned
in money, worth 8/5-1/4.

[14] See ante, i. 194, note.

[15] Respublica et Status Regni Hungariae. Ex Officina Elzeviriana, 1634, p. 136. This work
belongs to the series of Republics mentioned by Johnson, post, under April 29, 1776.

[16] '"Luke" had been taken simply for the euphony of the line. He was one of two brothers,
Dosa.... The origin of the mistake [of Zeck for Dosa] is curious. The two brothers belonged
to one of the native races of Transylvania called Szeklers or Zecklers, which descriptive addition
follows their names in the German biographical authorities; and this, through abridgment and
misapprehension, in subsequent books came at last to be substituted for the family name.' Forster's
Goldsmith, i. 370. The iron crown was not the worst of the tortures inflicted.

[17] See post, April 15, 1781. In 1748 Johnson had written (Works, v. 231): 'At a time when
so many schemes of education have been projected.... so many schools opened for general knowledge,
and so many lectures in particular sciences attended.' Goldsmith, in his Life of Nash (published
in 1762), describes the lectures at Bath 'on the arts and sciences which are frequently taught
there in a pretty, superficial manner so as not to tease the understanding while they afford
the imagination some amusement.' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv 59.

[18] Perhaps Gibbon had read this passage at the time when he wrote in his Memoirs:--'It has
indeed been observed, nor is the observation absurd, that, excepting in experimental sciences
which demand a costly apparatus and a dexterous hand, the many valuable treatises that have
been published on every subject of learning may now supersede the ancient mode of oral instruction.'
Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 50. See post, March 20, 1776, note.

[19] See ante, i. 103.

[20] Baretti was in Italy at the same time as Boswell. That they met seems to be shewn by a
passage in Boswell's letter (post, Nov. 6, 1766). Malone wrote of him:--'He appears to be an
infidel.' Prior's Malone, p. 399.

[21] Lord Charlemont records (Life, i. 235) that 'Mrs. Mallet, meeting Hume at an assembly,
boldly accosted him in these words:--"Mr. Hume, give me leave to introduce myself to you; we
deists ought to know each other." "Madame," replied Hume, "I am no deist. I do not style myself
so, neither do I desire to be known by that appellation."' Hume, in 1763 or 1764, wrote to
Dr. Blair about the men of letters at Paris:--'It would give you and Robertson great satisfaction
to find that there is not a single deist among them.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 181. There was
no deist, I suppose, because they were all atheists. Romilly (Life, i. 179) records the following
anecdote, which he had from Diderot in 1781:--'Hume dina avec une grande compagnie chez le
Baron d'Holbach. Il etait assis a cote du Baron; on parla de la religion naturelle. "Pour les
Athees," disait Hume, "je ne crois pas qu'il en existe; je n'en ai jamais vu." "Vous avez ete
un peu malheureux," repondit l'autre, "vous voici a table avec dix-sept pour la premiere fois."'
It was on the same day that Diderot related this that he said to Romilly, 'Il faut sabrer la
theologie.'

[22] 'The inference upon the whole is, that it is not from the value or worth of the object
which any person pursues that we can determine his enjoyment; but merely from the passion with
which he pursues it, and the success which he meets with in his pursuit. Objects have absolutely
no worth or value in themselves. They derive their worth merely from the passion. If that be
strong and steady and successful, the person is happy. It cannot reasonably be doubted but
a little miss, dressed in a new gown for a dancing-school ball, receives as complete enjoyment
as the greatest orator, who triumphs in the splendour of his eloquence, while he governs the
passions and resolutions of a numerous assembly.' Hume's Essays, i. 17 (The Sceptic). Pope
had written in the Essay on Man (iv. 57):

'Condition, circumstance, is not the thing; Bliss is the same in subject or in King.'

See also post, April 15, 1778.

[23] In Boswelliana, p. 220, a brief account is given of his life, which was not altogether
uneventful.

[24] We may compare with this what he says in The Rambler, No. 21, about the 'cowardice which
always encroaches fast upon such as spend their time in the company of persons higher than
themselves.' In No. 104 he writes:--'It is dangerous for mean minds to venture themselves within
the sphere of greatness.' In the court that Boswell many years later paid to Lord Lonsdale,
he suffered all the humiliations that the brutality of this petty greatness can inflict. Letters
of Boswell, p. 324. See also post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[25] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19, 1773.

[26] Johnson (Works, ix. 107) thus sums up his examination of second-sight:--'There is against
it, the seeming analogy of things confusedly seen, and little understood; and for it, the indistinct
cry of natural persuasion, which may be, perhaps, resolved at last into prejudice and tradition.
I never could advance my curiosity to conviction; but came away at last only willing to believe.'
See also post, March 24, 1775. Hume said of the evidence in favour of second-sight--:'As finite
added to finite never approaches a hair's breadth nearer to infinite, so a fact incredible
in itself acquires not the smallest accession of probability by the accumulation of testimony.'
J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 480.

[27] 'I love anecdotes,' said Johnson. Boswell's Hebridge, Aug. 16, 1773. Boswell said that
'Johnson always condemned the word anecdotes, as used in the sense that the French, and we
from them, use it, as signifying particulars.' Letters of Boswell, p. 311. In his Dictionary,
he defined 'Anecdotes Something yet unpublished; secret history.' In the fourth edition he
added: 'It is now used, after the French, for a biographical incident; a minute passage of
private life.'

[28] See ante, July 19, 1763.

[29] Boswell, writing to Wilkes in 1776, said:--'Though we differ widely in religion and politics,
il y a des points ou nos ames sont animes, as Rouseau said to me in his wild retreat.' Almon's
Wilkes, iv. 319.

[30] Rousseau fled from France in 1762. A few days later his arrest was ordered at Geneva.
He fled from Neufchatel in 1763, and soon afterwards he was banished from Berne. Nonev. Biog.
Gen., Xlii. 750. He had come to England with David Hume a few weeks before this conversation
was held, and was at this time in Chiswick. Hume's Private Corres., pp. 125, 145.

[31] Rousseau had by this time published his Nouvelle Helloise and Emile.

[32] Less than three months after the date of this conversation Rousseau wrote to General Conway,
one of the Secretaries of State, thanking him for the pension which George III proposed secretly
to confer on him. Hume's Private Corres., p. 165. Miss Burney, in her preface to Evelina, a
novel which was her introduction to Johnson's strong affection, mentioning Rousseau and Johnson,
adds in a footnote:-- 'However superior the capacities in which these great writers deserve
to be considered, they must pardon me that, for the dignity of my subject, I here rank the
authors of Rasselas and Eloise as novelists.'

[33] Rousseau thus wrote of himself:

'Dieu est juste; il veut que je souffre; et il sait que je suis innocent. Voila le motif de
ma confiance, mon coeur et ma raison me crient qu'elle ne me trompera pas. Laissons donc faire
les hommes et la destinee; apprenons a souffrir sans murmure; tout doit a la fin rentrer dans
Fordre, et mon tour viendra tot ou tard.' Rousseau's Works, xx. 223.

[34] 'He entertained me very courteously,' wrote Boswell in his Corsica, p. 140.

[35] In this preference Boswell pretended at times to share. See post, Sept. 30, 1769.

[36] Johnson seems once to have held this view to some extent; for, writing of Savage's poem
On Public Spirit, he says (Works, viii.

[37] 'Qui mores hominum multorum vidit et urbes.' 'Manners and towns of various nations viewed.'
FRANCIS. Horace, Ars Poetica, 1. 142.

[38] By the time Boswell was twenty-six years old he could boast that he had made the acquaintance
of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Paoli among foreigners; and of Adam Smith, Robertson, Hume, Johnson,
Goldsmith, Garrick, Horace Walpole, Wilkes, and perhaps Reynolds, among Englishmen. He had
twice at least received a letter from the Earl of Chatham.

[39] In such passages as this we may generally assume that the gentleman, whose name is not
given, is Boswell himself. See ante, i. 4, and post, Oct. 16, 1769.

[40] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's 'Collection,' where this assertion is called 'his usual
remark.'

[41] See post, April 15, 1778.

[42] These two words may be observed as marks of Mr. Boswell's accuracy. It is a jocular Irish
phrase, which, of all Johnson's acquaintances, no one probably, but Goldsmith, would have used.--CROKER.

[43] See ante, May 24, 1763.

[44] Johnson's best justification for the apparent indolences of the latter part of his life
may be found in his own words: 'Every man of genius has some arts of fixing the attention peculiar
to himself, by which, honestly exerted, he may benefit mankind.... To the position of Tully,
that if virtue could be seen she must be loved, may be added, that if truth could be heard
she must be obeyed.' The Rambler, No. 87. He fixed the attention best by his talk. For 'the
position of Tully,' see post, March 19, 1776.

[45] See ante, i. 192, and post, May 1, 1783. Goldsmith wrote The Traveller and Deserted Village
on a very different plan. 'To save himself the trouble of transcription, he wrote the lines
in his first copy very wide, and would so fill up the intermediate space with reiterated corrections,
that scarcely a word of his first effusions was left unaltered.' Goldsmith's Misc. Works, i. 113.

[46] Mrs. Thrale in a letter to Dr. Johnson, said:--'Don't sit making verses that never will
be written.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 183. Baretti noted opposite this in the margin of his copy:
'Johnson was always making Latin or English verses in his mind, but never would write them down.'

[47] Burke entered Parliament as member for Wendover borough on Jan. 14th, 1766. William Burke,
writing to Barry the artist on the following March 23, says:--'Ned's success has exceeded our
most sanguine hopes; all at once he has darted into fame. He is full of real business, intent
upon doing real good to his country, as much as if he was to receive twenty per cent. from
the commerce of the whole empire, which he labours to improve and extend.' Barry's Works, i.
42. 330.

[49] See post, March 20, 1776.

[50] Boswell has already stated (ante, Oct. 1765) that Johnson's Shakespeare was 'virulently
attacked' by Kenrick. No doubt there were other attacks and rejoinders too.

[51] Two days earlier he had drawn up a prayer on entering Novum Museum. Pr. and Med., p. 69.

[52] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[53] Dictionarium Saxonico et Gothico-Latinum. London, 1772. Lye died in 1767. O. Manning completed
the work.

[54] See Appendix A.

[55] Mr. Langton's uncle. BOSWELL.

[56] The place of residence of Mr. Peregrine Langton. BOSWELL.

[57] Mr. Langton did not disregard this counsel, but wrote the following account, which he
has been pleased to communicate to me:

'The circumstances of Mr. Peregrine Langton were these. He had an annuity for life of two hundred
pounds per annum. He resided in a village in Lincolnshire; the rent of his house, with two
or three small fields, was twenty-eight pounds; the county he lived in was not more than moderately
cheap; his family consisted of a sister, who paid him eighteen pounds annually for her board,
and a niece. The servants were two maids, and two men in livery. His common way of living,
at his table, was three or four dishes; the appurtenances to his table were neat and handsome;
he frequently entertained company at dinner, and then his table was well served with as many
dishes as were usual at the tables of the other gentlemen in the neighbourhood. His own appearance,
as to clothes, was genteelly neat and plain. He had always a post-chaise, and kept three horses.

'Such, with the resources I have mentioned, was his way of living, which he did not suffer
to employ his whole income: for he had always a sum of money lying by him for any extraordinary
expences that might arise. Some money he put into the stocks; at his death, the sum he had
there amounted to one hundred and fifty pounds. He purchased out of his income his household-furniture
and linen, of which latter he had a very ample store; and, as I am assured by those that had
very good means of knowing, not less than the tenth part of his income was set apart for charity:
at the time of his death, the sum of twenty-five pounds was found, with a direction to be employed
in such uses.

'He had laid down a plan of living proportioned to his income, and did not practise any extraordinary
degree of parsimony, but endeavoured that in his family there should be plenty without waste;
as an instance that this was his endeavour, it may be worth while to mention a method he took
in regulating a proper allowance of malt liquor to be drunk in his family, that there might
not be a deficiency, or any intemperate profusion: On a complaint made that his allowance of
a hogshead in a month, was not enough for his own family, he ordered the quantity of a hogshead
to be put into bottles, had it locked up from the servants, and distributed out, every day,
eight quarts, which is the quantity each day at one hogshead in a month; and told his servants,
that if that did not suffice, he would allow them more; but, by this method, it appeared at
once that the allowance was much more than sufficient for his small family; and this proved
a clear conviction, that could not be answered, and saved all future dispute. He was, in general,
very diligently and punctually attended and obeyed by his servants; he was very considerate
as to the injunctions he gave, and explained them distinctly; and, at their first coming to
his service, steadily exacted a close compliance with them, without any remission; and the
servants finding this to be the case, soon grew habitually accustomed to the practice of their
business, and then very little further attention was necessary. On extraordinary instances
of good behaviour, or diligent service, he was not wanting in particular encouragements and
presents above their wages; it is remarkable that he would permit their relations to visit
them, and stay at his house two or three days at a time.

[58] Of his being in the chair of THE LITERARY CLUB, which at this time met once a week in
the evening. BOSWELL. See ante, Feb. 1764, note.

[59] See post, Feb. 1767, where he told the King that 'he must now read to acquire more knowledge.'

[60] The passage omitted alluded to a private transaction. BOSWELL.

[61] The censure of my Latin relates to the Dedication, which was as follows:

   VIRO NOBILISSIMO, ORNATISSIMO,
              JOANNI,
     VICECOMITI MOUNTSTUART,
      ATAVIS EDITO REGIBUS
  EXCELSAE FAMILLAE DE BUTE SPEI ALTERAE;
           LABENTE SECULO,
       QUUM HOMINES NULLIUS ORIGINIS
      GENUS AEQUARE OPIBUS AGGREDIUNTUR,
        SANGUINIS ANTIQUI ET ILLUSTRIS
            SEMPER MEMORI,
  NATALIUM SPLENDOREM VIRTUTIBUS AUGENTI:

      AD PUBLICA POPULI COMITIA
           JAM LEGATO;

 IN OPTIMATIUM VERO MAGNAE BRITANNIAE SENATU,
          JURE HAEREDITARIO,
           OLIM CONSESSURO:

    VIM INSITAM VARIA DOCTRINA PROMOVENTE,
        NEC TAMEN SE VENDITANTE,
                PRAEDITO:

      PRISCA FIDE, ANIMO LIBERRIMO,
          ET MORUM ELEGANTIA
              INSIGNI:

       IN ITALIAE VISITANDAE ITINERE,
          SOCIO SUO HONORATISSIMO,
       HASCE JURISPRUDENTAE PRIMITIAS
    DEVINCTISSIMAE AMICITIAE ET OBSERVANTIAE
              MONUMENTUM,
                D. D. C Q.

JACOBUS BOSWELL. BOSWELL.

[62] See ante, i. 211.

[63] See post, May 19, 1778.

[64] This alludes to the first sentence of the Proaemium of my Thesis. 'JURISPRUDENTAE studio
nullum uberius, nullum generosius: in legibus enim agitandis, populorum mores, variasque fortunae
vices ex quibus leges oriuntur, contemplari simul solemus' BOSWELL.

[65] 'Mr. Boswell,' says Malone, 'professed the Scotch and the English law; but had never taken
very great pains on the subject. His father, Lord Auchinleck, told him one day, that it would
cost him more trouble to hide his ignorance in these professions than to show his knowledge.
This Boswell owned he had found to be true.' European Magazine, 1798, p. 376. Boswell wrote
to Temple in 1775:--'You are very kind in saying that I may overtake you in learning. Believe
me though that I have a kind of impotency of study.' Letters of Boswell, p. 181.

[66] This is a truth that Johnson often enforced. 'Very few,' said the poet; 'live by choice:
every man is placed in his present condition by causes which acted without his foresight, and
with which he did not always willingly co-operate.' Rasselas, chap. 16. 'To him that lives
well,' answered the hermit, 'every form of life is good; nor can I give any other rule for
choice than to remove from all apparent evil.' Ib, chap. 21. 'Young man,' said Omar, 'it is
of little use to form plans of life.' The Idler, No. 101.

[67] 'Hace sunt quae nostra liceat te voce moneri.' Aeneid, iii. 461.

[68] The passage omitted explained the transaction to which the preceding letter had alluded.
BOSWELL.

[69] See ante, June 10, 1761.

[70] Mr. Croker says:--'It was by visiting Chambers, when a fellow of University College, that
Johnson became acquainted with Lord Stowell [at that time William Scott]; and when Chambers
went to India, Lord Stowell, as he expressed it to me, seemed to succeed to his place in Johnson's
friendship.' Croker's Boswell, p. 90, note. John Scott (Earl of Eldon), Sir William Jones and
Mr. Windham, were also members of University College. The hall is adorned with the portraits
of these five men. An engraving of Johnson is in the Common Room.

[71] It is not easy to discover anything noble or even felicitous in this Dedication. Works,
v. 444.

[72] See ante, i. 148.

[73] See ante, i. 177, note 2.

[74] See ante, i. 158.

[75] See ante, i. 178, note 2.

[76] This poem is scarcely Johnson's, though all the lines but the third in the following couplets
may be his.

Whose life not sunk in sloth is free from care, Nor tost by change, nor stagnant in despair;
Who with wise authors pass the instructive day And wonder how the moments stole away; Who not
retired beyond the sight of life Behold its weary cares, its noisy strife.'

[77] Johnson's additions to these three poems are not at all evident.

[78] In a note to the poem it is stated that Miss Williams, when, before her blindness, she
was assisting Mr. Grey in his experiments, was the first that observed the emission of the
electrical spark from a human body. The best lines are the following:--

Now, hoary Sage, purse thy happy flight, With swifter motion haste to purer light, Where Bacon
waits with Newton and with Boyle To hail thy genius, and applaud thy toil; Where intuition
breaks through time and space, And mocks experiment's successive race; Sees tardy Science toil
at Nature's laws, And wonders how th' effect obscures the cause. Yet not to deep research or
happy guess Is owed the life of hope, the death of peace.'

[79] A gentleman, writing from Virginia to John Wesley, in 1735, about the need of educating
the negro slaves in religion, says:--'Their masters generally neglect them, as though immortality
was not the privilege of their souls in common with their own.' Wesley's Journal, II. 288.
But much nearer home Johnson might have found this criminal enforcement of ignorance. Burke,
writing in 1779, about the Irish, accuses the legislature of 'condemning a million and a half
of people to ignorance, according to act of parliament.' Burke's Corres. ii. 294.

[80] See post, March 21, 1775, and Appendix.

[81] Johnson said very finely:--'Languages are the pedigree of nations.' Boswell's Hebrides,
Sept. 18, 1773.

[82] The Rev. Mr. John Campbell, Minister of the Parish of Kippen, near Stirling, who has lately
favoured me with a long, intelligent, and very obliging letter upon this work, makes the following
remark:--'Dr. Johnson has alluded to the worthy man employed in the translation of the New
Testament. Might not this have afforded you an opportunity of paying a proper tribute of respect
to the memory of the Rev. Mr. James Stuart, late Minister of Killin, distinguished by his eminent
Piety, Learning and Taste? The amiable simplicity of his life, his warm benevolence, his indefatigable
and successful exertions for civilizing and improving the Parish of which he was Minister for
upwards of fifty years, entitle him to the gratitude of his country, and the veneration of
all good men. It certainly would be a pity, if such a character should be permitted to sink
into oblivion.' BOSWELL.

[83] Seven years later Johnson received from the Society some religious works in Erse. See
post, June 24, 1774. Yet in his journey to the Hebrides, in 1773 (Works, ix. 101), he had to
record of the parochial schools in those islands that 'by the rule of their institution they
teach only English, so that the natives read a language which they may never use or understand,'

[84] This paragraph shews Johnson's real estimation of the character and abilities of the celebrated
Scottish Historian, however lightly, in a moment of caprice, he may have spoken of his works.
BOSWELL.

[85] See ante, i. 210.

[86] This is the person concerning whom Sir John Hawkins has thrown out very unwarrantable
reflections both against Dr. Johnson and Mr. Francis Barber. BOSWELL. See post, under Oct.
20, 1784. In 1775, Heely, it appears, applied through Johnson for the post that was soon to
be vacant of 'master of the tap' at Ranelagh House. 'He seems,' wrote Johnson, in forwarding
his letter of application, 'to have a genius for an alehouse.' Piozzi Letters, i. 210. See
also post, Aug. 12, 1784.

[87] See an account of him in the European Magazine, Jan. 1786. BOSWELL. There we learn that
he was in his time a grammar-school usher, actor, poet, the puffing partner in a quack medicine,
and tutor to a youthful Earl. He was suspected of levying blackmail by threats of satiric publications,
and he suffered from a disease which rendered him an object almost offensive to sight. He was
born in 1738 or 1739, and died in 1771.

[88] It was republished in The Repository, ii. 227, edition of 1790.

[89] The Hon. Thomas Hervey, whose Letter to Sir Thomas Hanmer in 1742 was much read at that
time. He was the second son of John, first Earl of Bristol, and one of the brothers of Johnson's
early friend Henry Hervey. He died Jan. 20, 1775. MALONE. See post, April 6, 1775.

[90] See post, under Sept. 22, 1777, for another story told by Beauclerk against Johnson of
a Mr. Hervey.

[91] Essays published in the Daily Gazetteer and afterwards collected into two vols. Gent.
Mag. for 1748, P. 48.

[92] Mr. Croker regrets that Johnson employed his pen for hire in Hervey's 'disgusting squabbles,'
and in a long note describes Hervey's letter to Sir Thomas Hanmer with whose wife he had eloped.
But the attack to which Johnson was hired to reply was not made by Hanmer, but, as was supposed,
by Sir C. H. Williams. Because a man has wronged another, he is not therefore to submit to
the attacks of a third. Williams, moreover, it must be remembered, was himself a man of licentious
character.

[93] Buckingham House, bought in 1761, by George III, and settled on Queen Charlotte. The present
Buckingham Palace occupies the site. P. CUNNINGHAM. Here, according to Hawkins (Life, p. 470),
Johnson met the Prince of Wales (George IV.) when a child, 'and enquired as to his knowledge
of the Scriptures; the prince in his answers gave him great satisfaction.' Horace Walpole,
writing of the Prince at the age of nineteen, says (Journal of the Reign of George III, ii.
503):--'Nothing was coarser than his conversation and phrases; and it made men smile to find
that in the palace of piety and pride his Royal Highness had learnt nothing but the dialect
of footmen and grooms.'

[94] Dr. Johnson had the honour of contributing his assistance towards the formation of this
library; for I have read a long letter from him to Mr. Barnard, giving the most masterly instructions
on the subject. I wished much to have gratified my readers with the perusal of this letter,
and have reason to think that his Majesty would have been graciously pleased to permit its
publication; but Mr. Barnard, to whom I applied, declined it 'on his own account.' BOSWELL.
It is given in Mr. Croker's edition, p. 196.

[95] The particulars of this conversation I have been at great pains to collect with the utmost
authenticity from Dr. Johnson's own detail to myself; from Mr. Langton who was present when
he gave an account of it to Dr. Joseph Warton, and several other friends, at Sir Joshua Reynolds's;
from Mr. Barnard; from the copy of a letter written by the late Mr. Strahan the printer, to
Bishop Warburton; and from a minute, the original of which is among the papers of the late
Sir James Caldwell, and a copy of which was most obligingly obtained for me from his son Sir
John Caldwell, by Sir Francis Lumm. To all these gentlemen I beg leave to make my grateful
acknowledgements, and particularly to Sir Francis Lumm, who was pleased to take a great deal
of trouble, and even had the minute laid before the King by Lord Caermarthen, now Duke of Leeds,
then one of his Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, who announced to Sir Francis the
Royal pleasure concerning it by a letter, in these words: 'I have the King's commands to assure
you, Sir, how sensible his Majesty is of your attention in communicating the minute of the
conversation previous to its publication. As there appears no objection to your complying with
Mr. Boswell's wishes on the subject, you are at full liberty to deliver it to that gentleman,
to make such use of in his Life of Dr. Johnson, as he may think proper.' BOSWELL. In 1790,
Boswell published in a quarto sheet of eight pages A conversation between His Most Sacred Majesty
George III. and Samuel Johnson, LLD. Illustrated with Observations. By James Boswell, Esq.
London. Printed by Henry Baldwin, for Charles Dilly in the Poultry. MDCCXC. Price Half-a-Guinea.
Entered in the Hall-Book of the Company of Stationers. It is of the same impression as the
first edition of the Life of Johnson.

[96] After Michaelmas, 1766. See ante, ii. 25.

[97] See post, May, 31, 1769, note.

[98] Writing to Langton, on May 10, of the year before he had said, 'I read more than I did.
I hope something will yet come on it.' Ante, ii. 20.

[99] Boswell and Goldsmith had in like manner urged him 'to continue his labours.' See ante,
i. 398, and ii. 15.

[100] Johnson had written to Lord Chesterfield in the Plan of his Dictionary (Works, v. 19),
'Ausonius thought that modesty forbade him to plead inability for a task to which Caesar had
judged him equal:--Cur me posse negem posse quod ille pufat?' We may compare also a passage
in Mme. D'Arblay's Diary (ii. 377):--'THE KING. "I believe there is no constraint to be put
upon real genius; nothing but inclination can set it to work. Miss Burney, however, knows best."
And then hastily returning to me he cried; "What? what?" "No, sir, I--I--believe not, certainly,"
quoth I, very awkwardly, for I seemed taking a violent compliment only as my due; but I knew
not how to put him off as I would another person.'

[101] In one part of the character of Pope (Works, viii. 319), Johnson seems to be describing
himself:--'He certainly was in his early life a man of great literary curiosity; and when he
wrote his Essay on Criticism had for his age a very wide acquaintance with books. When he entered
into the living world, it seems to have happened to him as to many others, that he was less
attentive to dead masters; he studied in the academy of Paracelsus, and made the universe his
favourite volume.... His frequent references to history, his allusions to various kinds of
knowledge, and his images selected from art and nature, with his observations on the operations
of the mind and the modes of life, show an intelligence perpetually on the wing, excursive,
vigorous, and diligent, eager to pursue knowledge, and attentive to retain it.' See ante, i. 57.

[102] Johnson thus describes Warburton (Works, viii. 288):--'About this time [1732] Warburton
began to make his appearance in the first ranks of learning. He was a man of vigorous faculties,
a mind fervid and vehement, supplied by incessant and unlimited enquiry, with wonderful extent
and variety of knowledge.' Cradock (Memoirs, i. 188) says that 'Bishop Kurd always wondered
where it was possible for Warburton to meet with certain anecdotes with which not only his
conversation, but likewise his writings, abounded. "I could have readily informed him," said
Mrs. Warburton, "for, when we passed our winters in London, he would often, after his long
and severe studies, send out for a whole basketful of books from the circulating libraries;
and at times I have gone into his study, and found him laughing, though alone."' Lord Macaulay
was, in this respect, the Warburton of our age.

[103] The Rev. Mr. Strahan clearly recollects having been told by Johnson, that the King observed
that Pope made Warburton a Bishop. 'True, Sir, (said Johnson,) but Warburton did more for Pope;
he made him a Christian:' alluding, no doubt, to his ingenious Comments on the Essay on Man.
BOSWELL. The statements both of the King and Johnson are supported by two passages in Johnson's
Life of Pope, (Works, viii. 289, 290). He says of Warburton's Comments:--'Pope, who probably
began to doubt the tendency of his own work, was glad that the positions, of which he perceived
himself not to know the full meaning, could by any mode of interpretation be made to mean well....
From this time Pope lived in the closest intimacy with his commentator, and amply rewarded
his kindness and his zeal; for he introduced him to Mr. Murray, by whose interest he became
preacher at Lincoln's Inn; and to Mr. Allen, who gave him his niece and his estate, and by
consequence a bishoprick.' See also the account given by Johnson, in Boswell's Hebrides, Aug.
21, 1773. Bishop Law in his Revised Preface to Archbishop King's Origin of Evil (1781), p.
xvii, writes:--'I had now the satisfaction of seeing that those very principles which had been
maintained by Archbishop King were adopted by Mr. Pope in his Essay on Man; this I used to
recollect, and sometimes relate, with pleasure, conceiving that such an account did no less
honour to the poet than to our philosopher; but was soon made to understand that anything of
that kind was taken highly amiss by one [Warburton] who had once held the doctrine of that
same Essay to be rank atheism, but afterwards turned a warm advocate for it, and thought proper
to deny the account above-mentioned, with heavy menaces against those who presumed to insinuate
that Pope borrowed anything from any man whatsoever.' See post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[104] In Gibbon's Memoirs, a fine passage is quoted from Lowth's Defence of the University
of Oxford, against Warburton's reproaches. 'I transcribe with pleasure this eloquent passage,'
writes Gibbon, 'without inquiring whether in this angry controversy the spirit of Lowth himself
is purified from the intolerant zeal which Warburton had ascribed to the genius of the place.'
Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 47. See BOSWELL'S Hebrides, Aug. 28, 1773.

[105] See post, April 15, 1773, where Johnson says that Lyttelton 'in his History wrote the
most vulgar Whiggism,' and April 10, 1776. Gibbon, who had reviewed it this year, says in his
Memoirs (Misc. Works, i. 207): 'The public has ratified my judgment of that voluminous work,
in which sense and learning are not illuminated by a ray of genius.'

[106] Hawkins says of him (Life, p. 211):--'He obtained from one of those universities which
would scarce refuse a degree to an apothecary's horse a diploma for that of doctor of physic.'
He became a great compiler and in one year earned L1500. In the end he turned quack-doctor.
He was knighted by the King of Sweden 'in return for a present to that monarch of his Vegetable
System.' He at least thrice attacked Garrick (Murphy's Garrick, pp. 136, 189, 212), who replied
with three epigrams, of which the last is well-known:--

'For Farces and Physic his equal there scarce is;
 His Farces are Physic, his Physic a Farce is.'

Horace Walpole (Letters iii. 372), writing on Jan. 3, 1761, said:--'Would you believe, what
I know is fact, that Dr. Hill earned fifteen guineas a week by working for wholesale dealers?
He was at once employed on six voluminous works of Botany, Husbandry, &c., published weekly.'
Churchill in the Rescind thus writes of him:--

'Who could so nobly grace the motley list,
 Actor, Inspector, Doctor, Botanist?
 Knows any one so well--sure no one knows--
 At once to play, prescribe, compound, compose?'

Churchill's Poems, i. 6. In the Gent. Mag. xxii. 568, it is stated that he had acted pantomime,
tragedy and comedy, and had been damned in all.

[107] Mr. Croker quotes Bishop Elrington, who says, 'Dr. Johnson was unjust to Hill, and showed
that he did not understand the subject.' Croker's Boswell, p. 186.

[108] D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature, ed. 1834, i. 201) says that 'Hill, once when he
fell sick, owned to a friend that he had over-fatigued himself with writing seven works at
once, one of which was on architecture and another on cookery.' D'Israeli adds that Hill contracted
to translate a Dutch work on insects for fifty guineas. As he was ignorant of the language,
he bargained with another translator for twenty-five guineas. This man, who was equally ignorant,
rebargained with a third, who perfectly understood his original, for twelve guineas.

[109] Gibbon (Misc. Works, v. 442), writing on Dec. 20, 1763, of the Journal des Savans, says:--'I
can hardly express how much I am delighted with this journal; its characteristics are erudition,
precision, and taste.... The father of all the rest, it is still their superior.... There is
nothing to be wished for in it but a little more boldness and philosophy; but it is published
under the Chancellor's eye.'

[110] Goldsmith, in his Present State of Polite Learning (ch. xi.), published in 1759, says;--'We
have two literary reviews in London, with critical newspapers and magazines without number.
The compilers of these resemble the commoners of Rome, they are all for levelling property,
not by increasing their own, but by diminishing that of others.... The most diminutive son
of fame or of famine has his we and his us, his firstlys and his secondlys, as methodical as
if bound in cow-hide and closed with clasps of brass. Were these Monthly Reviews and Magazines
frothy, pert, or absurd, they might find some pardon, but to be dull and dronish is an encroachment
on the prerogative of a folio.'

[111] See post, April 10, 1766.

[112] Mr. White, the Librarian of the Royal Society, has, at my request, kindly examined the
records of the Royal Society, but has not been able to discover what the 'circumstance' was.
Neither is any light thrown on it by Johnson's reviews of Birch's History of the Royal Society
and Philosophical Transactions, vol. xlix. (ante, i. 309), which I have examined.

[113] 'Were you to converse with a King, you ought to be as easy and unembarrassed as with
your own valet-de-chambre; but yet every look, word, and action should imply the utmost respect.
What would be proper and well-bred with others much your superior, would be absurd and ill-bred
with one so very much so.' Chesterfield's Letters, iii. 203.

[114] Imlac thus described to Rasselas his interview with the Great Mogul:--'The emperor asked
me many questions concerning my country and my travels; and though I cannot now recollect anything
that he uttered above the power of a common man, he dismissed me astonished at his wisdom,
and enamoured of his goodness.' Rasselas, chap. ix. Wraxall (Memoirs, edit. of 1884, i. 283)
says that Johnson was no judge of a fine gentleman. 'George III,' he adds, 'was altogether
destitute of these ornamental and adventitious endowments.' He mentions 'the oscillations of
his body, the precipitation of his questions, none of which, it was said, would wait for an
answer, and the hurry of his articulation.' Mr. Wheatley, in a note on this passage, quotes
the opinion of 'Adams, the American Envoy, who said, the "King is, I really think, the most
accomplished courtier in his dominions."'

[115] 'Dr. Warton made me a most obsequious bow.... He is what Dr. Johnson calls a rapturist,
and I saw plainly he meant to pour forth much civility into my ears. He is a very communicative,
gay, and pleasant converser, and enlivened the whole day by his readiness upon all subjects.'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 236. It is very likely that he is 'the ingenious writer' mentioned
post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's 'Collection,' of whom Johnson said, 'Sir, he is an enthusiast
by rule.' Mr. Windham records that Johnson, speaking of Warton's admiration of fine passages,
said:--'His taste is amazement' (misprinted amusement). Windham's Diary, p. 20. In her Memoirs
of Dr. Burney (ii. 82), Mme. D'Arblay says that Johnson 'at times, when in gay spirits, would
take off Dr. Warton with the strongest humour; describing, almost convulsively, the ecstasy
with which he would seize upon the person nearest to him, to hug in his arms, lest his grasp
should be eluded, while he displayed some picture or some prospect.' In that humourous piece,
Probationary Odes for the Laureateship (p. xliii), Dr. Joseph is made to hug his brother in
his arms, when he sees him descend safely from the balloon in which he had composed his Ode.
Thomas Warton is described in the same piece (p. 116) as 'a little, thick, squat, red-faced
man.' There was for some time a coolness between Johnson and Dr. Warton. Warton, writing on
Jan. 22, 1766, says:--'I only dined with Johnson, who seemed cold and indifferent, and scarce
said anything to me; perhaps he has heard what I said of his Shakespeare, or rather was offended
at what I wrote to him--as he pleases.' Wooll's Warton, p. 312. Wooll says that a dispute took
place between the two men at Reynolds's house. 'One of the company overheard the following
conclusion of the dispute. JOHNSON. "Sir, I am not used to be contradicted." WARTON. "Better
for yourself and friends, Sir, if you were; our admiration could not be increased, but our
love might."' Ib p. 98.

[116] The Good-Natured Man, post p. 45.

[117] 'It has been said that the King only sought one interview with Dr. Johnson. There was
nothing to complain of; it was a compliment paid by rank to letters, and once was enough. The
King was more afraid of this interview than Dr. Johnson was; and went to it as a schoolboy
to his task. But he did not want to have the trial repeated every day, nor was it necessary.
The very jealousy of his self-love marked his respect; and if he thought the less of Dr. Johnson,
he would have been more willing to risk the encounter.' Hazlitt's Conversations of Northcote,
p. 45. It should seem that Johnson had a second interview with the King thirteen years later.
In 1780, Hannah More records (Memoirs, i. 174):--'Johnson told me he had been with the King
that morning, who enjoined him to add Spenser to his Lives of the Poets.' It is strange that,
so far as I know, this interview is not mentioned by any one else. It is perhaps alluded to,
post, Dec., 1784, when Mr. Nichols told Johnson that he wished 'he would gratify his sovereign
by a Life of Spenser.'

[118] It is proper here to mention, that when I speak of his correspondence, I consider it
independent of the voluminous collection of letters which, in the course of many years, he
wrote to Mrs. Thrale, which forms a separate part of his works; and as a proof of the high
estimation set on any thing which came from his pen, was sold by that lady for the sum of five
hundred pounds. BOSWELL.

[119] He was away from the London 'near six months.' See ante, ii. 30.

[120] On August 17 he recorded:--'I have communicated with Kitty, and kissed her. I was for
some time distracted, but at last more composed. I commended my friends, and Kitty, Lucy, and
I were much affected. Kitty is, I think, going to heaven.' Pr. and Med., p. 75.

[121] Pr. and Med., pp. 77 and 78. BOSWELL.

[122] Pr. and Med., p. 73. BOSWELL. On Aug. 17, he recorded:--'By abstinence from wine and
suppers I obtained sudden and great relief, and had freedom of mind restored to me, which I
have wanted for all this year, without being able to find any means of obtaining it.' Ib p. 74.

[123] Hawkins, in his second edition (p. 347) assigns it to Campbell, 'who,' he says, 'as well
for the malignancy of his heart as his terrific countenance, was called horrible Campbell.'

[124] See ante, i. 218.

[125] The book is as dull as it is indecent. The 'drollery' is of the following kind. Johnson
is represented as saying:--'Without dubiety you misapprehend this dazzling scintillation of
conceit in totality, and had you had that constant recurrence to my oraculous dictionary which
was incumbent upon you from the vehemence of my monitory injunctions,' &c. p. 2.

[126] Pr. and Med., p. 81. BOSWELL. 'This day,' he wrote on his birthday, 'has been passed
in great perturbation; I was distracted at church in an uncommon degree, and my distress has
had very little intermission.... This day it came into my mind to write the history of my melancholy.
On this I purpose to deliberate; I know not whether it may not too much disturb me.' See post,
April 8, 1780.

[127] It is strange that Boswell nowhere quotes the lines in The Good-Natured Man, in which
Paoli is mentioned. 'That's from Paoli of Corsica,' said Lofty. Act v. sc. i.

[128] In the original, 'Pressed by.' Boswell, in thus changing the preposition, forgot what
Johnson says in his Plan of an English Dictionary (Works, v. 12):--'We say, according to the
present modes of speech, The soldier died of his wounds, and the sailor perished with hunger;
and every man acquainted with our language would be offended with a change of these particles,
which yet seem originally assigned by chance.'

[129] Boswell, writing to Temple on March 24, says:--'My book has amazing celebrity; Lord Lyttelton,
Mr. Walpole, Mrs. Macaulay, and Mr. Garrick have all written me noble letters about it. There
are two Dutch translations going forward.' Letters of Boswell, p. 145. It met with a rapid
sale. A third edition was called for within a year. Dilly, the publisher, must have done very
well by it, as he purchased the copyright for one hundred guineas. Ib, p. 103. 'Pray read the
new account of Corsica,' wrote Horace Walpole to Gray on Feb. 18, 1768 (Letters, v. 85). 'The
author is a strange being, and has a rage of knowing everybody that ever was talked of. He
forced himself upon me at Paris in spite of my teeth and my doors.' To this Gray replied:--'Mr.
Boswell's book has pleased and moved me strangely; all, I mean, that relates to Paoli. He is
a man born two thousand years after his time! The pamphlet proves, what I have always maintained,
that any fool may write a most valuable book by chance, if he will only tell us what he heard
and saw with veracity.' In The Letters of Boswell (p. 122) there is the following under date
of Nov. 9, 1767:--'I am always for fixing some period for my perfection, as far as possible.
Let it be when my account of Corsica is published; I shall then have a character which I must
support.' In April 16 of the following year, a few weeks after the book had come out, he writes:--'To
confess to you at once, Temple, I have since my last coming to town been as wild as ever.'
(p. 146.)

[130] Boswell used to put notices of his movements in the newspapers, such as--'James Boswell,
Esq., is expected in town.' Public Advertiser, Feb. 28, 1768. 'Yesterday James Boswell, Esq.,
arrived from Scotland at his lodgings in Half-Moon Street, Piccadilly.' Ib March 24, 1768.
Prior's Goldsmith, i. 449.

[131] Johnson was very ill during this visit. Mrs. Thrale had at the same time given birth
to a daughter, and had been nursed by her mother. His thoughts, therefore, were turned on illness.
Writing to Mrs. Thrale, he says:--'To roll the weak eye of helpless anguish, and see nothing
on any side but cold indifference, will, I hope, happen to none whom I love or value; it may
tend to withdraw the mind from life, but has no tendency to kindle those affections which fit
us for a purer and a nobler state.... These reflections do not grow out of any discontent at
C's [Chambers's] behaviour; he has been neither negligent nor troublesome; nor do I love him
less for having been ill in his house. This is no small degree of praise.' Piozzi Letters, i. 13.

[132] See ante, ii. 3, note.

[133] The editor of the Letters of Boswell justly says (p. 149):--'The detail in the Life of
Johnson is rather scanty about this period; dissipation, the History of Corsica, wife-hunting,
... interfered perhaps at this time with Boswell's pursuit of Dr. Johnson.'

[134] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773, for a discussion of the same question. Lord Eldon
has recorded (Life, i. 106), that when he first went the Northern Circuit (about 1776-1780),
he asked Jack Lee (post, March 20, 1778), who was not scrupulous in his advocacy, whether his
method could be justified. 'Oh, yes,' he said, 'undoubtedly. Dr. Johnson had said that counsel
were at liberty to state, as the parties themselves would state, what it was most for their
interest to state.' After some interval, and when he had had his evening bowl of milk punch
and two or three pipes of tobacco, he suddenly said, 'Come, Master Scott, let us go to bed.
I have been thinking upon the questions that you asked me, and I am not quite so sure that
the conduct you represented will bring a man peace at the last.' Lord Eldon, after stating
pretty nearly what Johnson had said, continues:--'But it may be questioned whether even this
can be supported.'

[135] Garrick brought out Hugh Kelly's False Delicacy at Drury Lane six days before Goldsmith's
Good-Natured Man was brought out at Covent Garden. 'It was the town talk,' says Mr. Forster
(Life of Goldsmith, ii. 93), some weeks before either performance took place, 'that the two
comedies were to be pitted against each other.' False Delicacy had a great success. Ten thousand
copies of it were sold before the season closed. (Ib p. 96.) 'Garrick's prologue to False Delicacy,'
writes Murphy (Life of Garrick, p. 287), 'promised a moral and sentimental comedy, and with
an air of pleasantry called it a sermon in five acts. The critics considered it in the same
light, but the general voice was in favour of the play during a run of near twenty nights.
Foote, at last, by a little piece called Piety in Pattens, brought that species of composition
into disrepute.' It is recorded in Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 201, that when some one asked
Johnson whether they should introduce Hugh Kelly to him, 'No, Sir,' says he, 'I never desire
to converse with a man who has written more than he has read.' See post, beginning of 1777.

[136] The Provoked Husband, or A Journey to London, by Vanbrugh and Colley Cibber. It was brought
out in 1727-8. See post, June 3, 1784.

[137] See ante, i. 213.

[138] April 6, 1772, and April 12, 1776.

[139] Richardson, writing on Dec. 7, 1756, to Miss Fielding, about her Familiar Letters, says:--'What
a knowledge of the human heart! Well might a critical judge of writing say, as he did to me,
that your late brother's knowledge of it was not (fine writer as he was) comparable to yours.
His was but as the knowledge of the outside of a clock-work machine, while yours was that of
all the finer springs and movements of the inside.' Richardson Corres. ii. 104. Mrs. Calderwood,
writing of her visit to the Low Countries in 1756, says:--'All Richison's [Richardson's] books
are translated, and much admired abroad; but for Fielding's the foreigners have no notion of
them, and do not understand them, as the manners are so entirely English.' Letters, &c., of
Mrs. Calderwood, p. 208

[140] In The Provoked Husband, act iv. sc. 1.

[141] By Dr. Hoadley, brought out in 1747. 'This was the first good comedy from the time of
The Provoked Husband in 1727.' Murphy's Garrick, p. 78.

[142] Madame Riccoboni, writing to Garrick from Paris on Sept. 7, 1768, says:--'On ne supporterait
point ici l'indecence de Ranger. Les tresindecens Francaisdeviennent delicats sur leur theatre,
a mesure qu'ils le sont moins dans leur conduite.' Garrick's Corres. ii. 548.

[143] 'The question in dispute was as to the heirship of Mr. Archibald Douglas. If he were
really the son of Lady Jane Douglas, he would inherit large family estates; but if he were
supposititious, then they would descend to the Duke of Hamilton. The Judges of the Court of
Session had been divided in opinion, eight against seven, the Lord President Dundas giving
the casting vote in favour of the Duke of Hamilton; and in consequence of it he and several
other of the judges had, on the reversal by the Lords, their houses attacked by a mob. It is
said, but not upon conclusive authority, that Boswell himself headed the mob which broke his
own father's windows.' Letters of Boswell, p. 86. See post, April 27, 1773, and Boswell's Hebrides,
Oct. 24-26, 1773. Mr. J. H. Burton, in his Life of Hume (ii. 150), says:--'Men about to meet
each other in company used to lay an injunction on themselves not to open their lips on the
subject, so fruitful was it in debates and brawls.' Boswell, according to the Bodleian catalogue,
was the author of Dorando, A Spanish Tale, 1767. In this tale the Douglas cause is narrated
under the thinnest disguise. It is reviewed in the Gent. Mag. for 1767, p. 361.

[144] See post, under April 19, 1772, March 15, 1779, and June 2, 1781.

[145] Revd. Kenneth Macaulay. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 27, 1773. He was the great-uncle
of Lord Macaulay.

[146] Martin, in his St. Kilda (p. 38), had stated that the people of St. Kilda 'are seldom
troubled with a cough, except at the Steward's landing. I told them plainly,' he continues,
'that I thought all this notion of infection was but a mere fancy, at which they seemed offended,
saying, that never any before the minister and myself was heard to doubt of the truth of it,
which is plainly demonstrated upon the landing of every boat.' The usual 'infected cough,'
came, he says, upon his visit. Macaulay (History of St. Kilda, p. 204) says that he had gone
to the island a disbeliever, but that by eight days after his arrival all the inhabitants were
infected with this disease. See also post, March, 21, 1772, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 2, 1773.

[147] See ante, July 1, 1763.

[148] Post, March 21, 1772.

[149] This is not the case. Martin (p. 9) says that the only landing place is inaccessible
except under favour of a neap tide, a north-east or west wind, or with a perfect calm. He himself
was rowed to St. Kilda, 'the inhabitants admiring to see us get thither contrary to the wind
and tide' (p. 5).

[150] That for one kind of learning Oxford has no advantages, he shows in a letter that he
wrote there on Aug. 4, 1777. 'I shall inquire,' he says, 'about the harvest when I come into
a region where anything necessary to life is understood.' Piozzi Letters, i. 349. At Lichfield
he reached that region. 'My barber, a man not unintelligent, speaks magnificently of the harvest;'
Ib p. 351.

[151] See post, Sept. 14, 1777.

[152] See ante, i. 116.

[153] The advancement had been very rapid. 'When Dr. Robertson's career commenced,' writes
Dugald Stewart in his Life of that historian (p. 157), 'the trade of authorship was unknown
in Scotland.' Smollet, in Humphry Clinker, published three years after this conversation, makes
Mr. Bramble write (Letter of Aug. 8):--'Edinburgh is a hot-bed of genius. I have had the good
fortune to be made acquainted with many authors of the first distinction; such as the two Humes
[David Hume and John Home, whose names had the same pronunciation], Robertson, Smith, Wallace,
Blair, Ferguson, Wilkie, &c.' To these might be added Smollett himself, Boswell, Reid, Beattie,
Kames, Monboddo. Henry Mackenzie and Dr. Henry began to publish in 1771. Gibbon, writing to
Robertson in 1779, says:--'I have often considered with some sort of envy the valuable society
which you possess in so narrow a compass.' Stewart's Robertson, p. 363.

[154] See post, April 30, 1773, where Johnson owned that he had not read Hume. J.H. Burton
(Life of Hume, ii. 129), after stating that 'Hume was the first to add to a mere narrative
of events an enquiry into the progress of the people, &c.,' says:--'There seems to be no room
for the supposition that he had borrowed the idea from Voltaire's Essai sur les Moeurs. Hume's
own Political Discourses are as close an approach to this method of inquiry as the work of
Voltaire; and if we look for such productions of other writers as may have led him into this
train of thought, it would be more just to name Bacon and Montesquieu.'

[155] See post, May 8 and 13, 1778.

[156] See post, April 30, 1773, April 29, 1778, and Oct. 10, 1779.

[157] An Essay on the Future Life of Brutes. By Richard Dean, Curate of Middleton, Manchester,
1767. The 'part of the Scriptures' on which the author chiefly relies is the Epistle to the
Romans, viii. 19-23. He also finds support for his belief in 'those passages in Isaiah where
the prophet speaks of new Heavens, and a new Earth, of the Lion as eating straw like the Ox,
&c.' Vol. ii. pp. x, 4.

[158] The words that Addison's Cato uses as he lays his hand on his sword. Act v. sc. 1.

[159] I should think it impossible not to wonder at the variety of Johnson's reading, however
desultory it may have been. Who could have imagined that the High Church of England-man would
be so prompt in quoting Maupertuis, who, I am sorry to think, stands in the list of those unfortunate
mistaken men, who call themselves esprits forts. I have, however, a high respect for that Philosopher
whom the Great Frederick of Prussia loved and honoured, and addressed pathetically in one of
his Poems,--

'Maupertuis, cher Maupertuis,
 Que notre vie est peu de chose!'

There was in Maupertuis a vigour and yet a tenderness of sentiment,
united with strong intellectual powers, and uncommon ardour of soul.
Would he had been a Christian! I cannot help earnestly venturing to hope
that he is one now. BOSWELL. Voltaire writing to D'Alembert on Aug. 25,
1759, says:--'Que dites-vous de Maupertuis, mort entre deux capucins?'
Voltaire's Works, lxii. 94.
Cette fleur, qui brille aujourd'hui
Demain se fane a peine eclose;
Tout perit, tout est emporte
Par la dure fatalite
Des arrtes de la destinee;
Votre vertu, vos grands talents
Ne pourront obtenir du temps
Le seul delai d'une journee.'
  La vie est un Songe. Euvres de
        Frederic II (edit. 1849), x. 40.

[160] Johnson does not give Conglobulate in his Dictionary; only conglobe. If he used the word
it is not likely that he said 'conglobulate together.'

[161] Gilbert White, writing on Nov. 4, 1767, after mentioning that he had seen swallows roosting
in osier-beds by the river, says:--'This seems to give some countenance to the northern opinion
(strange as it is) of their retiring under water.' White's Selborne, Letter xii. See also post,
May 7, 1773.

[162] Travels from St. Petersburgh in Russia to divers parts of Asia. By John Bell, Glasgow,
1763: 4to. 2 vols.

[163] I. D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature, ed. 1834, i. 194) ranks this book among Literary
Impostures. 'Du Halde never travelled ten leagues from Paris in his life; though he appears
by his writings to be familiar with Chinese scenery.' See ante, i. 136.

[164] See post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[165] Boswell, in his correspondence with Temple in 1767 and 1768, passes in review the various
ladies whom he proposes to marry. The lady described in this paragraph--for the 'gentleman'
is clearly Boswell--is 'the fair and lively Zelide,' a Dutch-woman. She was translating his
Corsica into French. On March 24, 1768, he wrote, 'I must have her.' On April 26, he asked
his father's permission to go over to Holland to see her. But on May 14 he forwarded to Temple
one of her letters. 'Could,' he said, 'any actress at any of the theatres attack me with a
keener--what is the word? not fury, something softer. The lightning that flashes with so much
brilliance may scorch, and does not her esprit do so?' Letters of Boswell, pp. 144-150.

[166] In the original it is some not many. Johnson's Works, vii. 182.

[167] An account of the Manners and Customs of Italy, by Joseph Baretti, London, 1768. The
book would be still more entertaining were it not written as a reply to Sharp's Letters on
Italy. Post under April 29, 1776.

[168] Mrs. Piozzi wrote of him: 'His character is easily seen, and his soul above disguise,
haughty and insolent, and breathing defiance against all mankind; while his powers of mind
exceed most people's, and his powers of purse are so slight that they leave him dependent on
all. Baretti is for ever in the state of a stream damned up; if he could once get loose, he
would bear down all before him.' Hayward's Piozzi, ii. 335.

[169] According to Hawkins (Life, p. 460), the watch was new this year, and was, he believed,
the first Johnson ever had.

[170] St. John, ix. 4. In Pr. and Med., p. 233, is the following:--'Ejaculation imploring diligence.
"O God, make me to remember that the night cometh when no man can work."' Porson, in his witty
attack on Sir John Hawkins, originally published in the Gent. Mag. for 1787, quotes the inscription
as a proof of Hawkins's Greek. 'Nux gar erchetai. The meaning is (says Sir John) For the night
cometh. And so it is, Mr. Urban.' Porson Tracts, p. 337.

[171] He thus wrote of himself from Oxford to Mrs. Thrale:--'This little dog does nothing,
but I hope he will mend; he is now reading Jack the Giant-killer. Perhaps so noble a narrative
may rouse in him the soul of enterprise.' Piozzi Letters, i. 9.

[172] See ante, ii. 3

[173] Under the same date, Boswell thus begins a letter to Temple:--'Your moral lecture came
to me yesterday in very good time, while I lay suffering severely for immorality. If there
is any firmness at all in me, be assured that I shall never again behave in a manner so unworthy
the friend of Paoli. My warm imagination looks forward with great complacency on the sobriety,
the healthfulness, and the worth of my future life.' Letters of Boswell, p. 147

[174] Johnson so early as Aug. 21, 1766, had given him the same advice (ante, ii. 22). How
little Boswell followed it is shewn by his letter to the Earl of Chatham, on April 8, 1767,
in which he informed him of his intention to publish his Corsica, and concluded:--'Could your
Lordship find time to honour me now and then with a letter? I have been told how favourably
your Lordship has spoken of me. To correspond with a Paoli and with a Chatham is enough to
keep a young man ever ardent in the pursuit of virtuous fame.' Chatham Corres., iii. 246. On
the same day on which he wrote to Johnson, he said in a letter to Temple, 'Old General Oglethorpe,
who has come to see me, and is with me often, just on account of my book, bids me not marry
till I have first put the Corsicans in a proper situation. "You may make a fortune in the doing
of it," said he; "or, if you do not, you will have acquired such a character as will entitle
you to any fortune."' Letters of Boswell, p. 148. Four months later, Boswell wrote:--'By a
private subscription in Scotland, I am sending this week L700 worth of ordnance [to Corsica]
... It is really a tolerable train of artillery.' Ib p. 156. In 1769 he brought out a small
volume entitled British Essays in favour of the Brave Corsicans. By Several Hands. Collected
and published by James Boswell, Esq.

[175] From about the beginning of the fourteenth century, Corsica had belonged to the Republic
of Genoa. In the great rising under Paoli, the Corsicans would have achieved their independence,
had not Genoa ceded the island to the crown of France.

[176] Boswell, writing to Temple on May 14 of this year, says:--'I am really the great man
now. I have had David Hume in the forenoon, and Mr. Johnson in the afternoon of the same day,
visiting me. Sir J. Pringle and Dr. Franklin dined with me to-day; and Mr. Johnson and General
Oglethorpe one day, Mr. Garrick alone another, and David Hume and some more literati another,
dine with me next week. I give admirable dinners and good claret; and the moment I go abroad
again, which will be in a day or two, I set up my chariot. This is enjoying the fruit of my
labours, and appearing like the friend of Paoli.' Letters of Boswell, p. 151.

[177] See post, April 12, 1778, and May 8, 1781.

[178] The talk arose no doubt from the general election that had just been held amid all the
excitement about Wilkes. Dr. Franklin (Memoirs, iii. 307), in a letter dated April 16, 1768,
describes the riots in London. He had seen 'the mob requiring gentlemen and ladies of all ranks
as they passed in their carriages, to shout for Wilkes and liberty, marking the same words
on all their coaches with chalk, and No. 45 on every door. I went last week to Winchester,
and observed that for fifteen miles out of town there was scarce a door or window shutter next
the road unmarked; and this continued here and there quite to Winchester.'

[179] In his Vindication of the Licensers of the Stage, he thus writes:--'If I might presume
to advise them [the Ministers] upon this great affair, I should dissuade them from any direct
attempt upon the liberty of the press, which is the darling of the common people, and therefore
cannot be attacked without immediate danger.' Works, v. 344. On p. 191 of the same volume,
he shows some of the benefits that arise in England from 'the boundless liberty with which
every man may write his own thoughts.' See also in his Life of Milton, the passage about Areopagitica,
Ib vii. 82. The liberty of the press was likely to be 'a constant topic.' Horace Walpole (Memoirs
of the Reign of George III, ii. 15), writing of the summer of 1764, says:--'Two hundred informations
were filed against printers; a larger number than had been prosecuted in the whole thirty-three
years of the last reign.'

[180] 'The sun has risen, and the corn has grown, and, whatever talk has been of the danger
of property, yet he that ploughed the field commonly reaped it, and he that built a house was
master of the door; the vexation excited by injustice suffered, or supposed to be suffered,
by any private man, or single community, was local and temporary; it neither spread far nor
lasted long.' Johnson's Works, vi. 170. See also post, March 31, 1772. Dr. Franklin (Memoirs,
iii. 215) wrote to the Abbe Morellet, on April 22, 1787:--'Nothing can be better expressed
than your sentiments are on this point, where you prefer liberty of trading, cultivating, manufacturing,
&c., even to civil liberty, this being affected but rarely, the other every hour.'

[181] See ante, July 6, 1763.

[182] See ante, Oct. 1765.

[183] 'I was diverted with Paoli's English library. It consisted of:--Some broken volumes of
the Spectatour and Tatler; Pope's Essay on Man; Gulliver's Travels; A History of France in
old English; and Barclay's Apology for the Quakers. I promised to send him some English books...
I have sent him some of our best books of morality and entertainment, in particular the works
of Mr. Samuel Johnson.' Boswell's Corsica, p. 169.

[184] Johnson, as Boswell believed, only once 'in the whole course of his life condescended
to oppose anything that was written against him.' (See ante, i. 314.) In this he followed the
rule of Bentley and of Boerhaave. 'It was said to old Bentley, upon the attacks against him,
"why, they'll write you down." "No, Sir," he replied; "depend upon it, no man was ever written
down but by himself."' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 1 1773. Bentley shewed prudence in his silence.
'He was right,' Johnson said, 'not to answer; for, in his hazardous method of writing, he could
not but be often enough wrong.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 10, 1773. 'Boerhaave was never soured
by calumny and detraction, nor ever thought it necessary to confute them; "for they are sparks,"
said he, "which, if you do not blow them, will go out of themselves."' Johnson's Works, vi.
288. Swift, in his Lines on Censure which begin,--

  'Ye wise instruct me to endure
   An evil which admits no cure.'

ends by saying:--

  'The most effectual way to baulk
   Their malice is--to let them talk.'
              Swift's Works, xi. 58.

Young, in his Second Epistle to Pope, had written:--

  'Armed with this truth all critics I defy;
   For if I fall, by my own pen I die.'

Hume, in his Auto. (p. ix.) says:--'I had a fixed resolution, which I inflexibly maintained,
never to reply to any body.' This is not quite true. See J. H. Burton's Life of Hume, ii. 252,
for an instance of a violent reply. The following passages in Johnson's writings are to the
same effect:--'I am inclined to believe that few attacks either of ridicule or invective make
much noise, but by the help of those that they provoke.' Piozzi Letters ii. 289. 'It is very
rarely that an author is hurt by his critics. The blaze of reputation cannot be blown out,
but it often dies in the socket.' Ib p. 110. 'The writer who thinks his works formed for duration
mistakes his interest when he mentions his enemies. He degrades his own dignity by shewing
that he was affected by their censures, and gives lasting importance to names, which, left
to themselves would vanish from remembrance.' Johnson's Works, vii. 294. 'If it had been possible
for those who were attacked to conceal their pain and their resentment, the Dunciad might have
made its way very slowly in the world.' Ib viii. 276. Hawkins (Life of Johnson, p. 348) says
that, 'against personal abuse Johnson was ever armed by a reflection that I have heard him
utter:--"Alas! reputation would be of little worth, were it in the power of every concealed
enemy to deprive us of it."' In his Parl. Debates (Works, x. 359), Johnson makes Mr. Lyttelton
say:--'No man can fall into contempt but those who deserve it.' Addison in The Freeholder,
No. 40, says, that 'there is not a more melancholy object in the learned world than a man who
has written himself down.' See also Boswell's Hebrides, near the end.

[185] Barber had entered Johnson's service in 1752 (ante, i. 239). Nine years before this letter
was written he had been a sailor on board a frigate (ante, i. 348), so that he was somewhat
old for a boy.

[186] Boswell, writing to Temple on May 14 of this year; says:--'Dr. Robertson is come up laden
with his Charles V.--three large quartos; he has been offered three thousand guineas for it.'
Letters of Boswell, p. 152.

[187] In like manner the professors at Aberdeen and Glasgow seemed afraid to speak in his presence.
See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug 23 and Oct 29, 1773. See also post, April 20, 1778.

[188] See ante, July 28, 1763.

[189] Johnson, in inserting this letter, says (Works, viii. 374):--'I communicate it with much
pleasure, as it gives me at once an opportunity of recording the fraternal kindness of Thomson,
and reflecting on the friendly assistance of Mr. Boswell, from whom I received it.' See post,
July 9, 1777, and June 18, 1778.

[190] Murphy, in his Life of Garrick, p. 183, says that Garrick once brought Dr. Munsey--so
he writes the name--to call on him. 'Garrick entered the dining-room, and turning suddenly
round, ran to the door, and called out, "Dr. Munsey, where are you going?" "Up stairs to see
the author," said Munsey. "Pho! pho! come down, the author is here." Dr. Munsey came, and,
as he entered the room, said in his free way, "You scoundrel! I was going up to the garret.
Who could think of finding an author on the first floor?"' Mrs. Montagu wrote to Lord Lyttelton
from Tunbridge in 1760:--'The great Monsey (sic) came hither on Friday ... He is great in the
coffee-house, great in the rooms, and great on the pantiles.' Montagu Letters, iv. 291. In
Rogers's Table-Talk, p. 271, there is a curious account of him.

[191] See ante, July 26, 1763.

[192] My respectable friend, upon reading this passage, observed, that he probably must have
said not simply, 'strong facts,' but 'strong facts well arranged.' His lordship, however, knows
too well the value of written documents to insist on setting his recollection against my notes
taken at the time. He does not attempt to traverse the record. The fact, perhaps, may have
been, either that the additional words escaped me in the noise of a numerous company, or that
Dr. Johnson, from his impetuosity, and eagerness to seize an opportunity to make a lively retort,
did not allow Dr. Douglas to finish his sentence. BOSWELL.

[193] 'It is boasted that between November [1712] and January, eleven thousand [of The Conduct
of the Allies] were sold.... Yet surely whoever surveys this wonder-working pamphlet with cool
perusal, will confess that it's efficacy was supplied by the passions of its readers; that
it operates by the mere weight of facts, with very little assistance from the hand that produced
them.' Johnson's Works, viii. 203.

[194] 'Every great man, of whatever kind be his greatness, has among his friends those who
officiously or insidiously quicken his attention to offences, heighten his disgust, and stimulate
his resentment.' Ib viii 266.

[195] See the hard drawing of him in Churchill's Rosciad. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 391, note 2.

[196] For talk, see post, under March 30 1783.

[197] See post, Oct. 6, 1769, and May 8, 1778, where Johnson tosses Boswell.

[198] See post, Sept. 22, 1777, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. i, 1773.

[199] See post, Nov. 27, 1773, note, April 7, 1775, and under May 8, 1781.

[200] He wrote the character of Mr. Mudge. See post, under March 20, 1781.

[201] 'Sept. 18, 1769. This day completes the sixtieth year of my age.... The last year has
been wholly spent in a slow progress of recovery.' Pr. and Med. p. 85.

[202] In which place he has been succeeded by Bennet Langton, Esq. When that truly religious
gentleman was elected to this honorary Professorship, at the same time that Edward Gibbon,
Esq., noted for introducing a kind of sneering infidelity into his Historical Writings, was
elected Professor in Ancient History, in the room of Dr. Goldsmith, I observed that it brought
to my mind, 'Wicked Will Whiston and good Mr. Ditton.' I am now also of that admirable institution
as Secretary for Foreign Correspondence, by the favour of the Academicians, and the approbation
of the Sovereign. BOSWELL. Goldsmith, writing to his brother in Jan., 1770, said:--'The King
has lately been pleased to make me Professor of Ancient History in a Royal Academy of Painting,
which he has just established, but there is no salary annexed, and I took it rather as a compliment
to the institution than any benefit to myself. Honours to one in my situation are something
like ruffles to one that wants a shirt.' Prior's Goldsmith, ii. 221. 'Wicked Will Whiston,'
&c., comes from Swift's Ode for Music, On the Longitude (Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xxiv. 39),
which begins,--

'The longitude miss'd on By wicked Will Whiston; And not better hit on By good Master Ditton.'

It goes on so grossly and so offensively as regards one and the other, that Boswell's comparison
was a great insult to Langton as well as to Gibbon.

[203] It has this inscription in a blank leaf:--'Hunc librum D.D. Samuel Johnson, eo quod hic
loci studiis interdum vacaret.' Of this library, which is an old Gothick room, he was very
fond. On my observing to him that some of the modern libraries of the University were more
commodious and pleasant for study, as being more spacious and airy, he replied, 'Sir, if a
man has a mind to prance, he must study at Christ-Church and All-Souls.' BOSWELL.

[204] During this visit he seldom or never dined out. He appeared to be deeply engaged in some
literary work. Miss Williams was now with him at Oxford. BOSWELL. It was more likely the state
of his health which kept him at home. Writing from Oxford on June 27 of this year to Mrs. Thrale,
who had been ill, he says:--'I will not increase your uneasiness with mine. I hope I grow better.
I am very cautious and very timorous.' Piozzi Letters, i. 21.

[205] Boswell wrote a letter, signed with his own name, to the London Magazine for 1769 (p.
451) describing the Jubilee. It is followed by a print of himself 'in the dress of an armed
Corsican chief,' and by an account, no doubt written by himself. It says:--'Of the most remarkable
masks upon this occasion was James Boswell, Esq., in the dress of an armed Corsican chief.
He entered the amphitheatre about twelve o'clock. On the front of his cap was embroidered in
gold letters, Viva La Liberta; and on one side of it was a handsome blue feather and cockade,
so that it had an elegant, as well as a warlike appearance. He wore no mask, saying that it
was not proper for a gallant Corsican. So soon as he came into the room he drew universal attention.'
Cradock (Memoirs, i. 217) gives a melancholy account of the festival. The preparations were
all behind-hand and the weather was stormy. 'There was a masquerade in the evening, and all
zealous friends endeavoured to keep up the spirit of it as long as they could, till they were
at last informed that the Avon was rising so very fast that no delay could be admitted. The
ladies of our party were conveyed by planks from the building to the coach, and found that
the wheels had been two feet deep in water.' Garrick in 1771 was asked by the Stratford committee
to join them in celebrating a Jubilee every year, as 'the most likely method to promote the
interest and reputation of their town.' Boswell caught at the proposal eagerly, and writing
to Garrick said:--'I please myself with the prospect of attending you at several more Jubilees
at Stratford-upon-Avon.' Garrick Corres. i. 414, 435.

[206] Garrick's correspondents not seldom spoke disrespectfully of Johnson. Thus, Mr. Sharp,
writing to him in 1769, talks of 'risking the sneer of one of Dr. Johnson's ghastly smiles.'
Ib i. 334. Dr. J. Hoadly, in a letter dated July 25, 1775, says:--'Mr. Good-enough has written
a kind of parody of Puffy Pensioner's Taxation no Tyranny, under the noble title of Resistance
no Rebellion.' Ib ii. 68.

[207] See ante, i. 181.

[208] In the Preface to my Account of Corsica, published in 1768, I thus express myself:

'He who publishes a book affecting not to be an authour, and professing an indifference for
literary fame, may possibly impose upon many people such an idea of his consequence as he wishes
may be received. For my part, I should be proud to be known as an authour, and I have an ardent
ambition for literary fame; for, of all possessions, I should imagine literary fame to be the
most valuable. A man who has been able to furnish a book, which has been approved by the world,
has established himself as a respectable character in distant society, without any danger of
having that character lessened by the observation of his weaknesses. To preserve an uniform
dignity among those who see us every day, is hardly possible; and to aim at it, must put us
under the fetters of perpetual restraint. The authour of an approved book may allow his natural
disposition an easy play, and yet indulge the pride of superior genius, when he considers that
by those who know him only as an authour, he never ceases to be respected. Such an authour,
when in his hours of gloom and discontent, may have the consolation to think, that his writings
are, at that very time, giving pleasure to numbers; and such an authour may cherish the hope
of being remembered after death, which has been a great object to the noblest minds in all
ages.' BOSWELL. His preface to the third edition thus ends:--'When I first ventured to send
this book into the world, I fairly owned an ardent desire for literary fame. I have obtained
my desire: and whatever clouds may overcast my days, I can now walk here among the rocks and
woods of my ancestors, with an agreeable consciousness that I have done something worthy.'
The dedication of the first edition and the preface of the third are both dated Oct. 29--one
1767, and the other 1768. Oct. 29 was his birthday.

[209] Paoli's father had been one of the leaders of the Corsicans in their revolt against Genoa
in 1734. Paoli himself was chosen by them as their General-in-chief in 1755. In 1769 the island
was conquered by the French. He escaped in an English ship, and settled in England. Here he
stayed till 1789, when Mirabeau moved in the National Assembly the recall of all the Corsican
patriots. Paoli was thereupon appointed by Louis XVI. Lieutenant-general and military commandant
in Corsica. He resisted the violence of the Convention, and was, in consequence, summoned before
it. Refusing to obey, an expedition was sent to arrest him. Napoleon Buonaparte fought in the
French army, but Paoli's party proved the stronger. The islanders sought the aid of Great Britain,
and offered the crown of Corsica to George III. The offer was accepted, but by an act of incredible
folly, not Paoli, but Sir Gilbert Eliot, was made Viceroy. Paoli returned to England, where
he died in 1807, at the age of eighty-two. In 1796 Corsica was abandoned by the English. By
the Revolution it ceased to be a conquered province, having been formally declared an integral
part of France. At the present day the Corsicans are proud of being citizens of that great
country; no less proud, however, are they of Pascal Paoli, and of the gallant struggle for
independence of their forefathers.

[210] According to the Ann. Reg. (xii. 132) Paoli arrived in London on Sept. 21. He certainly
was in London on Oct. 10, for on that day he was presented by Boswell to Johnson. Yet Wesley
records in his Journal (iii. 370) on Oct. 13:--'I very narrowly missed meeting the great Pascal
Paoli. He landed in the dock [at Portsmouth] but a very few minutes after I left the waterside.
Surely He who hath been with him from his youth up hath not sent him into England for nothing.'
In the Public Advertiser for Oct. 4 there is the following entry, inserted no doubt by Boswell:--'On
Sunday last General Paoli, accompanied by James Boswell, Esq., took an airing in Hyde Park
in his coach.' Priors Goldsmith, i. 450. Horace Walpole writes:--'Paoli's character had been
so advantageously exaggerated by Mr. Boswell's enthusiastic and entertaining account of him,
that the Opposition were ready to incorporate him in the list of popular tribunes. The Court
artfully intercepted the project; and deeming patriots of all nations equally corruptible,
bestowed a pension of L1000 a year on the unheroic fugitive.' Memoirs of the Reign of George
III, iii. 387.

[211] Johnson, writes Mrs. Piozzi (Anec., p. 228), ridiculed a friend 'who, looking out on
Streatham Common from our windows, lamented the enormous wickedness of the times, because some
bird-catchers were busy there one fine Sunday morning. "While half the Christian world is permitted,"
said Johnson, "to dance and sing and celebrate Sunday as a day of festivity, how comes your
puritanical spirit so offended with frivolous and empty deviations from exactness? Whoever
loads life with unnecessary scruples, Sir," continued he, "provokes the attention of others
on his conduct, and incurs the censure of singularity, without reaping the reward of superior
virtue."' See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 20, 1773.

[212] The first edition of Hume's History of England was full of Scotticisms, many of which
he corrected in subsequent editions. MALONE. According to Mr. J. H. Burton (Life of Hume, ii.
79), 'He appears to have earnestly solicited the aid of Lyttelton, Mallet, and others, whose
experience of English composition might enable them to detect Scotticisms.' Mr. Burton gives
instances of alterations made in the second edition. He says also that 'in none of his historical
or philosophical writings does any expression used by him, unless in those cases where a Scotticism
has escaped his vigilance, betray either the district or the county of his origin.' Ib i. 9.
Hume was shown in manuscript Reid's Inquiry into the Human Mind. Though it was an attack on
his own philosophy, yet in reading it 'he kept,' he says, 'a watchful eye all along over the
style,' so that he might point out any Scotticisms. Ib ii. 154. Nevertheless, as Dugald Stewart
says in his Life of Robertson (p. 214), 'Hume fails frequently both in purity and grammatical
correctness.' Even in his later letters I have noticed Scotticisms.

[213] In 1763 Wilkes, as author of The North Briton, No. 45, had been arrested on 'a general
warrant directed to four messengers to take up any persons without naming or describing them
with any certainty, and to bring them, together with their papers.' Such a warrant as this
Chief Justice Pratt (Lord Camden) declared to be 'unconstitutional, illegal, and absolutely
void.' Ann. Reg. vi. 145.

[214] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 24, 1773.

[215] In the Spring of this year, at a meeting of the electors of Southwark, 'instructions'
had been presented to Mr. Thrale and his brother-member, of which the twelfth was:--'That you
promote a bill for shortening the duration of Parliaments.' Gent. Mag. xxxix. 162.

[216] This paradox Johnson had exposed twenty-nine years earlier, in his Life of Sir Francis
Drake, Works, vi. 366. In Rasselas, chap. xi., he considers also the same question. Imlac is
'inclined to conclude that, if nothing counteracts the natural consequence of learning, we
grow more happy as our minds take a wider range.' He then enumerates the advantages which civilisation
confers on the Europeans. 'They are surely happy,' said the prince, 'who have all these conveniences.'
'The Europeans,' answered Imlac, 'are less unhappy than we, but they are not happy. Human life
is everywhere a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed.' Writing to
Mrs. Thrale from Skye, Johnson said: 'The traveller wanders through a naked desert, gratified
sometimes, but rarely, with the sight of cows, and now and then finds a heap of loose stones
and turf in a cavity between rocks, where a being born with all those powers which education
expands, and all those sensations which culture refines, is condemned to shelter itself from
the wind and rain. Philosophers there are who try to make themselves believe that this life
is happy, but they believe it only while they are saying it, and never yet produced conviction
in a single mind.' Piozzi Letters, i. 150. See post, April 21 and May 7, 1773, April 26, 1776,
and June 15, 1784.

[217] James Burnet, a Scotch Lord of Session, by the title of Lord Monboddo. 'He was a devout
believer in the virtues of the heroic ages, and the deterioration of civilised mankind; a great
contemner of luxuries, insomuch that he never used a wheel carriage.' WALTER SCOTT, quoted
in Croker's Boswell, p. 227. There is some account of him in Chambers's Traditions of Edinburgh,
ii. 175. In his Origin of Language, to which Boswell refers in his next note, after praising
Henry Stephen for his Greek Dictionary, he continues:--'But to compile a dictionary of a barbarous
language, such as all the modern are compared with the learned, is a work which a man of real
genius, rather than undertake, would choose to die of hunger, the most cruel, it is said, of
all deaths. I should, however, have praised this labour of Doctor Johnson's more, though of
the meanest kind,' &c. Monboddo's Origin of Language, v. 274. On p. 271, he says:--'Dr. Johnson
was the most invidious and malignant man I have ever known.' See post, March 21, 1772, May
8, 1773, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21, 1773.

[218] His Lordship having frequently spoken in an abusive manner of Dr. Johnson, in my company,
I on one occasion during the life-time of my illustrious friend could not refrain from retaliation,
and repeated to him this saying. He has since published I don't know how many pages in one
of his curious books, attempting, in much anger, but with pitiful effect, to persuade mankind
that my illustrious friend was not the great and good man which they esteemed and ever will
esteem him to be. BOSWELL.

[219] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 108) says:--'Mr. Johnson was indeed unjustly supposed to be a lover
of singularity. Few people had a more settled reverence for the world than he, or was less
captivated by new modes of behaviour introduced, or innovations on the long-received customs
of common life.' In writing to Dr. Taylor to urge him to take a certain course, he says:--'This
I would have you do, not in compliance with solicitation or advice, but as a justification
of yourself to the world; the world has always a right to be regarded.' Notes and Queries,
6th S. v. 343. In The Adventurer, No. 131, he has a paper on 'Singularities.' After quoting
Fontenelle's observation on Newton that 'he was not distinguished from other men by any singularity,
either natural or affected,' he goes on:--'Some may be found who, supported by the consciousness
of great abilities, and elevated by a long course of reputation and applause, voluntarily consign
themselves to singularity, affect to cross the roads of life because they know that they shall
not be jostled, and indulge a boundless gratification of will, because they perceive that they
shall be quietly obeyed.... Singularity is, I think, in its own nature universally and invariably
displeasing.' Writing of Swift, he says (Works, viii. 223):--'Whatever he did, he seemed willing
to do in a manner peculiar to himself, without sufficiently considering that singularity, as
it implies a contempt of the general practice, is a kind of defiance which justly provokes
the hostility of ridicule; he, therefore, who indulges peculiar habits is worse than others,
if he be not better.' See ante, Oct. 1765, the record in his Journal:--'At church. To avoid
all singularity.'

[220] 'He had many other particularities, for which he gave sound and philosophical reasons.
As this humour still grew upon him he chose to wear a turban instead of a periwig; concluding
very justly that a bandage of clean linen about his head was much more wholesome, as well as
cleanly, than the caul of a wig, which is soiled with frequent perspirations.' Spectator, No. 576.

[221] See post, June 28, 1777, note.

[222] 'Depend upon it,' he said, 'no woman is the worse for sense and knowledge.' Boswell's
Hebrides, Sept. 19; 1773--See, however, post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection, where he says:--'Supposing
a wife to be of a studious or argumentative turn, it would be very troublesome'

[223]

'Though Artemisia talks by fits Of councils, classics, fathers, wits; Reads Malbranche, Boyle,
and Locke: Yet in some things, methinks she fails; 'Twere well if she would pare her nails,
And wear a cleaner smock.'

SWIFT. Imitation of English Poets, Works, xxiv. 6.

[224] A Wife, a poem, 1614. BOSWELL.

[225] In the original that.

[226] What a succession of compliments was paid by Johnson's old school-fellow, whom he met
a year or two later in Lichfield, who 'has had, as he phrased it, a matter of four wives, for
which' added Johnson to Mrs. Thrale, 'neither you nor I like him much the better.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 41.

[227] Mr. Langton married the widow of the Earl of Rothes; post, March 20, 1771.

[228] Horace Walpole, writing of 1764, says:--'As one of my objects was to raise the popularity
of our party, I had inserted a paragraph in the newspapers observing that the abolition of
vails to servants had been set on foot by the Duke of Bedford, and had been opposed by the
Duke of Devonshire. Soon after a riot happened at Ranelagh, in which the footmen mobbed and
ill-treated some gentlemen who had been active in that reformation.' Memoirs of the Reign of
George III, ii. 3.

[229]

'Alexis shunned his fellow swains, Their rural sports and jocund strains, (Heaven guard us
all from Cupid's bow!) He lost his crook, he left his flocks; And wandering through the lonely
rocks, He nourished endless woe.'

The Despairing Shepherd.

[230] 'In his amorous effusions Prior is less happy; for they are not dictated by nature or
by passion, and have neither gallantry nor tenderness. They have the coldness of Cowley without
his wit, the dull exercises of a skilful versifier, resolved at all adventures to write something
about Chloe, and trying to be amorous by dint of study.... In his private relaxation he revived
the tavern, and in his amorous pedantry he exhibited the college.' Johnson's Works, viii. 15, 22.

[231] Florizel and Perdita is Garrick's version of The Winters Tale. He cut down the five acts
to three. The line, which is misquoted, is in one of Perdita's songs:--

'That giant ambition we never can dread; Our roofs are too low for so lofty a head; Content
and sweet cheerfulness open our door, They smile with the simple, and feed with the poor.'

Act ii. sc. 1.

[232] Horace. Sat. i. 4. 34.

[233] See ante, ii. 66.

[234] Horace Walpole told Malone that 'he was about twenty-two [twenty-four] years old when
his father retired; and that he remembered his offering one day to read to him, finding that
time hung heavy on his hands. "What," said he, "will you read, child?" Mr. Walpole, considering
that his father had long been engaged in public business, proposed to read some history. "No,"
said he, "don't read history to me; that can't be true."' Prior's Malone, p. 387. See also
post, April 30, 1773, and Oct. 10, 1779.

[235] See ante, i 75, post, Oct 12, 1779, and Boswell's Hebrides, August 15, 1773. Boswell
himself had met Whitefield; for mentioning him in his Letter to the People of Scotland (p.
25), he adds:--'Of whose pious and animated society I had some share.' Southey thus describes
Whitefield in his Life of Wesley (i. 126):--'His voice excelled both in melody and compass,
and its fine modulations were happily accompanied by that grace of action which he possessed
in an eminent degree, and which has been said to be the chief requisite of an orator. An ignorant
man described his eloquence oddly but strikingly, when he said that Mr. Whitefield preached
like a lion. So strange a comparison conveyed no unapt a notion of the force and vehemence
and passion of that oratory which awed the hearers, and made them tremble like Felix before
the apostle.' Benjamin Franklin writes (Memoirs, i. 163):--'Mr. Whitefield's eloquence had
a wonderful power over the hearts and purses of his hearers, of which I myself was an instance.'
He happened to be present at a sermon which, he perceived, was to finish with a collection
for an object which had not his approbation. 'I silently resolved he should get nothing from
me. I had in my pocket a handful of copper money, three or four silver dollars, and five pistoles
in gold. As he proceeded I began to soften, and concluded to give the copper. Another stroke
of his oratory made me ashamed of that, and determined me to give the silver; and he finished
so admirably that I emptied my pocket wholly into the collector's dish, gold and all.'

[236] 'What an idea may we not form of an interview between such a scholar and philosopher
as Mr. Johnson, and such a legislatour and general as Paoli.' Boswell's Corsica, p. 198.

[237] Mr. Stewart, who in 1768 was sent on a secret mission to Paoli, in his interesting report
says:--'Religion seems to sit easy upon Paoli, and notwithstanding what his historian Boswell
relates, I take him to be very free in his notions that way. This I suspect both from the strain
of his conversation, and from what I have learnt of his conduct towards the clergy and monks.'
Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, ii. 158. See post, April 14, 1775, where Johnson said:--'Sir, there
is a great cry about infidelity; but there are in reality very few infidels.' Yet not long
before he had complained of an 'inundation of impiety.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30, 1773.

[238] I suppose Johnson said atmosphere. CROKER. In Humphry Clinker, in the Letter of June
2, there is, however, a somewhat similar use of the word. Lord Bute is described as 'the Caledonian
luminary, that lately blazed so bright in our hemisphere; methinks, at present, it glimmers
through a fog.' A star, however, unlike a cloud, may pass from one hemisphere to the other.

[239] See post, under Nov. 5, 1775. Hannah More, writing in 1782 (Memoirs, i. 242), says:--'Paoli
will not talk in English, and his French is mixed with Italian. He speaks no language with purity.'

[240] Horace Walpole writes:--'Paoli had as much ease as suited a prudence that seemed the
utmost effort of a wary understanding, and was so void of anything remarkable in his aspect,
that being asked if I knew who it was, I judged him a Scottish officer (for he was sandy-complexioned
and in regimentals), who was cautiously awaiting the moment of promotion.' Memoirs of the Reign
of George III, iii. 387

[241] Boswell introduced this subject often. See post, Oct. 26, 1769, April 15, 1778, March
14, 1781, and June 23, 1784. Like Milton's fallen angels, he 'found no end, in wand'ring mazes
lost.' Paradise Lost, ii. 561.

[242] 'To this wretched being, himself by his own misconduct lashed out of human society, the
stage was indebted for several very pure and pleasing entertainments; among them, Love in a
Village, The Maid of the Mill.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 136. 'When,' says Mrs. Piozzi (Anec.
p. 168), 'Mr. Bickerstaff's flight confirmed the report of his guilt, and my husband said in
answer to Johnson's astonishment, that he had long been a suspected man: "By those who look
close to the ground dirt will be seen, Sir, (was his lofty reply); I hope I see things from
a greater distance."' In the Garrick Corres (i. 473) is a piteous letter in bad French, written
from St. Malo, by Bickerstaff to Garrick, endorsed by Garrick, 'From that poor wretch Bickerstaff:
I could not answer it.'

[243] Boswell, only a couple of years before he published The Life of Johnson, in fact while
he was writing it, had written to Temple:--'I was the great man (as we used to say) at the
late Drawing-room, in a suit of imperial blue, lined with rose-coloured silk, and ornamented
with rich gold-wrought buttons.' Letters of Boswell, p. 289.

[244] Miss Reynolds, in her Recollections (Croker's Boswell, p. 831), says, 'One day at Sir
Joshua Reynolds's Goldsmith was relating with great indignation an insult he had just received
from some gentleman he had accidentally met. "The fellow," he said, "took me for a tailor!"
on which all the company either laughed aloud or showed they suppressed a laugh.'

[245] In Prior's Goldsmith, ii. 232, is given Filby's Bill for a suit of clothes sent to Goldsmith
this very day:--

Oct. 16.--            L  s. d.
To making a half-dress
   suit of ratteen, lined
   with satin         12 12 0
To a pair of silk stocking
   breeches            2  5 0
To a pair of bloom-coloured
   ditto               1  4 6

Nothing is said in this bill of the colour of the coat; it is the breeches that are bloom-coloured.
The tailor's name was William, not John, Filby; Ib i. 378, Goldsmith in his Life of Nash had
said:--'Dress has a mechanical influence upon the mind, and we naturally are awed into respect
and esteem at the elegance of those whom even our reason would teach us to contemn. He seemed
early sensible of human weakness in this respect; he brought a person genteelly dressed to
every assembly.' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 46.

[246] 'The Characters of Men and Women are the product of diligent speculation upon human life;
much labour has been bestowed upon them, and Pope very seldom laboured in vain.... The Characters
of Men, however, are written with more, if not with deeper thought, and exhibit many passages
exquisitely beautiful.... In the women's part are some defects.' Johnson's Works, viii. 341.
In one particular he had 'found the world to be a great fool,' and, 'I have therefore,' as
he writes, 'in this work been more reserved;' yet the reserve is slight enough. Everyone guesses
that 'one of the company' was Boswell.

[249] Yet Johnson, in his Life of Pope (Works, viii. 276), seems to be much of Boswell's opinion;
for in writing of The Dunciad, he says:--'The subject itself had nothing generally interesting,
for whom did it concern to know that one or another scribbler was a dunce?'

[250] The opposite of this Johnson maintained on April 29, 1778.

[251] 'It is surely sufficient for an author of sixteen ... to have obtained sufficient power
of language and skill in metre, to exhibit a series of versification which had in English poetry
no precedent, nor has since had an imitation.' Johnson's Works, viii. 326.

[252] See ante, i. 129.

[253] 'If the flights of Dryden are higher, Pope continues longer on the wing ... Dryden is
read with frequent astonishment, and Pope with perpetual delight.' Johnson's Works, viii. 325.

[254] Probably, says Mr. Croker, those quoted by Johnson in The Life of Dryden. Ib vii. 339.

[255] The Duke of Buckingham in Dryden's Absalom and Achitophel.

[256] Prologue to the Satires, I. 193.

[257]

Almeria.--'It was a fancy'd noise; for all is hush'd.

Leonora.--It bore the accent of a human voice.

Almeria.--It was thy fear, or else some transient wind Whistling thro' hollows of this vaulted
aisle; We'll listen--

Leonora.--Hark!

Almeria.--No, all is hush'd and still as death,--'Tis dreadful! How reverend is the face of
this tall pile, Whose ancient pillars rear their marble heads, To bear aloft its arch'd and
ponderous roof, By its own weight made stedfast and immoveable, Looking tranquillity! It strikes
an awe And terror on my aching sight; the tombs And monumental caves of death look cold, And
shoot a chillness to my trembling heart. Give me thy hand, and let me hear thy voice; Nay,
quickly speak to me, and let me hear Thy voice--my own affrights me with its echoes.

Act ii. sc. 1.

[258]

'Swear by thy gracious self, Which is the god of my idolatry.'

Romeo and Juliet, act ii. sc. 2. He was a God with whom he ventured to take great liberties.
Thus on Jan. 10, 1776, he wrote:--'I have ventured to produce Hamlet with alterations. It was
the most imprudent thing I ever did in all my life; but I had sworn I would not leave the stage
till I had rescued that noble play from all the rubbish of the fifth act. I have brought it
forth without the grave-digger's trick and the fencing match. The alterations were received
with general approbation beyond my most warm expectations.' Garrick Corres., ii. 126. See ante,
ii. 78, note 4.

[259] This comparison between Shakespeare and Congreve is mentioned perhaps oftener than any
passage in Boswell. Almost as often as it is mentioned, it may be seen that Johnson's real
opinion is misrepresented or misunderstood. A few passages from his writings will shew how
he regarded the two men. In the Life of Congreve (Works, viii. 31) he repeats what he says
here:--'If I were required to select from the whole mass of English poetry the most poetical
paragraph, I know not what I could prefer to an exclamation in The Mourning Bride.' Yet in
writing of the same play, he says:--'In this play there is more bustle than sentiment; the
plot is busy and intricate, and the events take hold on the attention; but, except a very few
passages, we are rather amused with noise and perplexed with stratagem, than entertained with
any true delineation of natural characters.' Ib, p. 26. In the preface to his Shakespeare,
published four years before this conversation, he almost answered Garrick by anticipation.
'It was said of Euripides that every verse was a precept; and it may be said of Shakespeare,
that from his works may be collected a system of civil and economical prudence. Yet his real
power is not shown in the splendour of particular passages, but by the progress of his fable,
and the tenour of his dialogue, and he that tries to recommend him by select quotations, will
succeed like the pedant in Hierocles, who, when he offered his house to sale, carried a brick
in his pocket as a specimen.' Ib, v. 106. Ignorant, indeed, is he who thinks that Johnson was
insensible to Shakespeare's 'transcendent and unbounded genius,' to use the words that he himself
applied to him. The Rambler, No. 156. 'It may be doubtful,' he writes, 'whether from all his
successors more maxims of theoretical knowledge, or more rules of practical prudence, can be
collected than he alone has given to his country.' Works, v. 131. 'He that has read Shakespeare
with attention will, perhaps, find little new in the crowded world.' Ib, p. 434. 'Let him that
is yet unacquainted with the powers of Shakespeare, and who desires to feel the highest pleasure
that the drama can give, read every play, from the first scene to the last, with utter negligence
of all his commentators. When his fancy is once on the wing, let it not stoop at correction
or explanation.' Ib, p. 152. And lastly he quotes Dryden's words [from Dryden's Essay of Dramatick
Poesie, edit. of 1701, i. 19] 'that Shakespeare was the man who, of all modern and perhaps
ancient poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul.' Ib, p. 153. Mrs. Piozzi records
(Anec., p. 58), that she 'forced Johnson one day in a similar humour [to that in which he had
praised Congreve] to prefer Young's description of night to those of Shakespeare and Dryden.'
He ended however by saying:--'Young froths and foams and bubbles sometimes very vigorously;
but we must not compare the noise made by your tea-kettle here with the roaring of the ocean.'
See also post, p. 96.

[260] Henry V, act iv., Prologue.

[261] Romeo and Juliet, act iv., sc. 3.

[262] King Lear, act iv., sc. 6.

[263] See ante, July 26, 1763.

[264] See ante, i. 388.

[265] In spite of the gross nonsense that Voltaire has written about Shakespeare, yet it was
with justice that in a letter to Horace Walpole (dated July 15, 1768,) he said:--'Je suis le
premier qui ait fait connaitre Shakespeare aux Francais.... Je peux vous assurer qu'avant moi
personne en France ne connaissait la poesie anglaise.' Voltaire's Works, liv. 513.

[266] 'Of whom I acknowledge myself to be one, considering it as a piece of the secondary or
comparative species of criticism; and not of that profound species which alone Dr. Johnson
would allow to be "real criticism." It is, besides, clearly and elegantly expressed, and has
done effectually what it professed to do, namely, vindicated Shakespeare from the misrepresentations
of Voltaire; and considering how many young people were misled by his witty, though false observations,
Mrs. Montagu's Essay was of service to Shakspeare with a certain class of readers, and is,
therefore, entitled to praise. Johnson, I am assured, allowed the merit which I have stated,
saying, (with reference to Voltaire,) "it is conclusive ad hominem."' BOSWELL. That this dull
essay, which would not do credit to a clever school-girl of seventeen, should have had a fame,
of which the echoes have not yet quite died out, can only be fully explained by Mrs. Montagu's
great wealth and position in society. Contemptible as was her essay, yet a saying of hers about
Voltaire was clever. 'He sent to the Academy an invective [against Shakespeare] that bears
all the marks of passionate dotage. Mrs. Montagu happened to be present when it was read. Suard,
one of their writers, said to her, "Je crois, Madame, que vous etes un peu fache (sic) de ce
que vous venez d'entendre." She replied, "Moi, Monsieur! point du tout! Je ne suis pas amie
de M. Voltaire."' Walpole's Letters, vi. 394. Her own Letters are very pompous and very poor,
and her wit would not seem to have flashed often; for Miss Burney wrote of her:--'She reasons
well, and harangues well, but wit she has none.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 335. Yet in this
same Diary (i. 112) we find evidence of the absurdly high estimate that was commonly formed
of her. 'Mrs. Thrale asked me if I did not want to see Mrs. Montagu. I truly said, I should
be the most insensible of all animals not to like to see our sex's glory.' That she was a very
extraordinary woman we have Johnson's word for it. (See post, May 15, 1784.) It is impossible,
however, to discover anything that rises above commonplace in anything that she wrote, and,
so far as I know, that she said, with the exception of her one saying about Voltaire. Johnson
himself, in one of his letters to Mrs. Thrale, has a laugh at her. He had mentioned Shakespeare,
nature and friendship, and continues:--'Now, of whom shall I proceed to speak? Of whom but
Mrs. Montagu? Having mentioned Shakespeare and Nature, does not the name of Montagu force itself
upon me? Such were the transitions of the ancients, which now seem abrupt, because the intermediate
idea is lost to modern understandings. I wish her name had connected itself with friendship;
but, ah Colin, thy hopes are in vain.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 101. See post, April 7, 1778.

[267] 'Reynolds is fond of her book, and I wonder at it; for neither I, nor Beauclerk, nor
Mrs. Thrale, could get through it.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 23, 1773.

[268] Lord Kames is 'the Scotchman.' See ante, i. 393.

[269] 'When Charles Townshend read some of Lord Kames's Elements of Criticism, he said:--"This
is the work of a dull man grown whimsical"--a most characteristical account of Lord Kames as
a writer.' Boswelliana, p. 278. Hume wrote of it:--'Some parts of the work are ingenious and
curious; but it is too abstruse and crabbed ever to take with the public.' J. H. Burton's Hume,
ii. 131. 'Kames,' he says, 'had much provoked Voltaire, who never forgives, and never thinks
any enemy below his notice.' Ib, p. 195. Voltaire (Works, xliii. 302) thus ridicules his book:--'Il
nous prouve d'abord que nous avons cinq sens, et que nous sentons moins l'impression douce
faite sur nos yeux et sur nos oreilles par les couleurs et par les sons que nous ne sentons
un grand coup sur la jambe ou sur la tete.'

[270] L'Abbe Dubos, 1670-1742. 'Tous les artistes lisent avec fruit ses Reflexions sur la poesie,
la peinture, et la musique. C'est le livre le plus utile qu'on ait jamais ecrit sur ces matieres
chez aucune des nations de l'Europe.' Voltaire's Siecle de Louis XIV, i. 81.

[271] Bouhours, 1628-1702. Voltaire, writing of Bouhours' Maniere de bien penser sur les ouvrages
d'esprit, says that he teaches young people 'a eviter l'enflure, l'obscurite, le recherche,
et le faux.' Ib, p. 54. Johnson, perhaps, knew him, through The Spectator, No. 62, where it
is said that he has shown 'that it is impossible for any thought to be beautiful which is not
just, ... that the basis of all wit is truth.'

[272] Macbeth, act iii. sc. 2.

[273] In The False Alarm, that was published less than three months after this conversation,
Johnson describes how petitions were got. 'The progress of a petition is well known. An ejected
placeman goes down to his county or his borough, tells his friends of his inability to serve
them, and his constituents of the corruption of the Government. His friends readily understand
that he who can get nothing will have nothing to give. They agree to proclaim a meeting; meat
and drink are plentifully provided, a crowd is easily brought together, and those who think
that they know the reason of their meeting, undertake to tell those who know it not; ale and
clamour unite their powers.... The petition is read, and universally approved. Those who are
sober enough to write, add their names, and the rest would sign it if they could.' Works, vi.
172. Yet, when the petitions for Dr. Dodd's life were rejected, Johnson said:--'Surely the
voice of the public when it calls so loudly, and calls only for mercy, ought to be heard.'
Post, June 28, 1777. Horace Walpole, writing of the numerous petitions presented to the King
this year (1769), blames 'an example so inconsistent with the principles of liberty, as appealing
to the Crown against the House of Commons.' Some of them prayed for a dissolution of Parliament.
Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iii. 382, 390. Two years earlier Lord Shelburne, when Secretary
of State, had found among the subscribers to a petition for his impeachment, a friend of his,
a London alderman. 'Oh! aye,' said the alderman when asked for an explanation, 'I did sign
a petition at the Royal Exchange, which they told me was for the impeachment of a Minister;
I always sign a petition to impeach a Minister, and I recollect that as soon as I had subscribed
it, twenty more put their names to it.' Parl. Hist., xxxv. 167.

[274] See post, under March 24, 1776.

[275] Mr. Robert Chambers says that the author of the ballad was Elizabeth Halket, wife of
Sir Henry Wardlaw. She died about 1727. 'The ballad of Hardyknute was the first poem I ever
read, and it will be the last I shall forget.' SIR WALTER SCOTT. Croker's Boswell, p. 205.

[276] John Ray published, in 1674, A Collection of English Words, &c., and A Collection of
English Proverbs. In 1768 the two were published in one volume.

[277] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 23, 1773.

[278]

'Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage.'

Macbeth, Act v. se. 5.

[279] In the Garrick Corres., i. 385, there is a letter from Mrs. Montagu to Garrick, which
shows the ridiculous way in which Shakespeare was often patronised last century, and 'brought
into notice.' She says:--'Mrs. Montagu is a little jealous for poor Shakespeare, for if Mr.
Garrick often acts Kitely, Ben Jonson will eclipse his fame.'

[280] 'Familiar comedy is often more powerful on the theatre than in the page; imperial tragedy
is always less.' Johnson's Works, v. 122. See also Boswell's Hebrides, August 15 and 16, 1773,
where Johnson 'displayed another of his heterodox opinions--a contempt of tragick acting.'
Murphy (Life, p. 145) thus writes of Johnson's slighting Garrick and the stage:--'The fact
was, Johnson could not see the passions as they rose and chased one another in the varied features
of that expressive face; and by his own manner of reciting verses, which was wonderfully impressive,
he plainly showed that he thought there was too much of artificial tone and measured cadence
in the declamation of the theatre.' Reynolds said of Johnson's recitation, that 'it had no
more tone than it should the have.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 26, 1773. See post, April 3, 1773.

[281] See post, April 6, 1775, where Johnson, speaking of Cibber's 'talents of conversation,'
said:--'He had but half to furnish; for one half of what he said was oaths.'

[282] See ante, June 13, 1763.

[283] See post, Sept. 21, 1777.

[284] On Oct. 18, one day, not two days before, four men were hanged at Tyburn for robbery
on the highway, one for stealing money and linen, and one for forgery. Gent. Mag., xxxix. 508.
Boswell, in The Hypochondriack, No. 68 (London Mag. for 1783, p. 203), republishes a letter
which he had written on April 25, 1768, to the Public Advertiser, after he had witnessed the
execution of an attorney named Gibbon, and a youthful highwayman. He says:--'I must confess
that I myself am never absent from a public execution.... When I first attended them, I was
shocked to the greatest degree. I was in a manner convulsed with pity and terror, and for several
days, but especially nights after, I was in a very dismal situation. Still, however, I persisted
in attending them, and by degrees my sensibility abated, so that I can now see one with great
composure. I can account for this curiosity in a philosophical manner, when I consider that
death is the most awful object before every man, whoever directs his thoughts seriously towards
futurity. Therefore it is that I feel an irresistible impulse to be present at every execution,
as I there behold the various effects of the near approach of death.' He maintains 'that the
curiosity which impels people to be present at such affecting scenes, is certainly a proof
of sensibility, not of callousness. For, it is observed, that the greatest proportion of the
spectators is composed of women.' See post, June 23, 1784.

[285] Of Johnson, perhaps, might almost be said what he said of Swift (Works, viii. 207):--'The
thoughts of death rushed upon him at this time with such incessant importunity that they took
possession of his mind, when he first waked, for many hours together.' Writing to Mrs. Thrale
from Lichfield on Oct. 27, 1781, he says:--'All here is gloomy; a faint struggle with the tediousness
of time, a doleful confession of present misery, and the approach seen and felt of what is
most dreaded and most shunned. But such is the lot of man.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 209.

[286] Johnson, during a serious illness, thus wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'When any man finds himself
disposed to complain with how little care he is regarded, let him reflect how little he contributed
to the happiness of others, and how little, for the most part, he suffers from their pain.
It is perhaps not to be lamented that those solicitudes are not long nor frequent which must
commonly be vain; nor can we wonder that, in a state in which all have so much to feel of their
own evils, very few have leisure for those of another.' Piozzi Letters, i. 14. See post, Sept.
14, 1777.

[287] 'I was shocked to find a letter from Dr. Holland, to the effect that poor Harry Hallam
is dying at Sienna [Vienna]. What a trial for my dear old friend! I feel for the lad himself,
too. Much distressed. I dined, however. We dine, unless the blow comes very, very near the
heart indeed.' Macaulay's Life, ii. 287. See also ante, i. 355.

[288] See post, Feb. 24, 1773, for 'a furious quarrel' between Davies and Baretti.

[289] Foote, two or three years before this, had lost one leg through an accident in hunting.
Forster's Essays, ii. 398. See post, under Feb. 7, 1775. He looked grave and angry, and entered
into a serious refutation of the justice of the remark. 'What, Sir, (said he), talk thus of
a man of liberal education;--a man who for years was at the University of Oxford;--a man who
has added sixteen new characters to the English drama of his country!' BOSWELL.

Foote was at Worcester College, but he left without taking his degree. He was constantly in
scrapes. When the Provost, Dr. Gower, who was a pedant, sent for him to reprimand him, 'Foote
would present himself with great apparent gravity and submission, but with a large dictionary
under his arm; when, on the doctor beginning in his usual pompous manner with a surprisingly
long word, he would immediately interrupt him, and, after begging pardon with great formality,
would produce his dictionary, and pretending to find the meaning of the word, would say, "Very
well, Sir; now please to go on."' Forster's Essays, ii. 307. Dr. Gower is mentioned by Dr.
King (Anec., p. 174) as one of the three persons he had known 'who spoke English with that
elegance and propriety, that if all they said had been immediately committed to writing, any
judge of the language would have pronounced it an excellent and very beautiful style.' The
other two were Bishop Atterbury and Dr. Johnson.

[291] Cento. A composition formed by joining scrapes from other authours.' Johnson's Dictionary.

[292] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 30, 1773.

[293] For the position of these chaplains see The Tatler, No. 255, and The Guardian, No. 163.

[294] 'He had been assailed in the grossest manner possible by a woman of the town, and, driving
her off with a blow, was set upon by three bullies. He thereupon ran away in great fear, for
he was a timid man, and being pursued, had stabbed two of the men with a small knife he carried
in his pocket.' Garrick and Beauclerk testified that every one abroad carried such a knife,
for in foreign inns only forks were provided. 'When you travel abroad do you carry such knives
as this?' Garrick was asked. 'Yes,' he answered, 'or we should have no victuals.' Dr. Johnson:
His Friends and His Critics, p. 288. I have extracted from the Sessional Reports for 1769,
p. 431, the following evidence as to Baretti's character:--'SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS. I have known
Mr. Baretti fifteen or sixteen years. He is a man of great humanity, and very active in endeavouring
to help his friends. He is a gentleman of a good temper; I never knew him quarrelsome in my
life; he is of a sober disposition.... This affair was on a club night of the Royal Academicians.
We expected him there, and were inquiring about him before we heard of this accident. He is
secretary for foreign correspondence.' 'DR. JOHNSON. I believe I began to be acquainted with
Mr. Baretti about the year '53 or '54. I have been intimate with him. He is a man of literature,
a very studious man, a man of great diligence. He gets his living by study. I have no reason
to think he was ever disordered with liquor in his life. A man that I never knew to be otherwise
than peaceable, and a man that I take to be rather timorous.' Qu. 'Was he addicted to pick
up women in the street?' 'Dr. J. I never knew that he was.' Qu. 'How is he as to his eye-sight?'
'Dr. J. He does not see me now, nor I do not [sic] see him. I do not believe he could be capable
of assaulting anybody in the street without great provocation.' 'EDMUND BURKE, ESQ. I have
known him between three and four years; he is an ingenious man, a man of remarkable humanity--a
thorough good-natured man.' 'DAVID GARRICK, ESQ. I never knew a man of a more active benevolence....
He is a man of great probity and morals.' 'DR. GOLDSMITH. I have had the honour of Mr. Baretti's
company at my chambers in the Temple. He is a most humane, benevolent, peaceable man.... He
is a man of as great humanity as any in the world.' Mr. Fitzherbert and Dr. Hallifax also gave
evidence. 'There were divers other gentlemen in court to speak for his character, but the Court
thought it needless to call them.' It is curious that Boswell passes over Reynolds and Goldsmith
among the witnesses. Baretti's bail before Lord Mansfield were Burke, Garrick, Reynolds, and
Fitzherbert. Mrs. Piozzi tells the following anecdotes of Baretti:--'When Johnson and Burke
went to see him in Newgate, they had small comfort to give him, and bid him not hope too strongly.
"Why, what can he fear," says Baretti, placing himself between them, "that holds two such hands
as I do?" An Italian came one day to Baretti, when he was in Newgate, to desire a letter of
recommendation for the teaching his scholars, when he (Baretti) should be hanged. "You rascal,"
replies Baretti in a rage, "if I were not in my own apartment, I would kick you down stairs
directly."' Hayward's Piazzi, ii. 348. Dr. T. Campbell, in his Diary (p. 52), wrote on April
1, 1775:--'Boswell and Baretti, as I learned, are mortal foes; so much so that Murphy and Mrs.
Thrale agreed that Boswell expressed a desire that Baretti should be hanged upon that unfortunate
affair of his killing, &c.'

[295] Lord Auchinleck, we may assume. Johnson said of Pope, that 'he was one of those few whose
labor is their pleasure.' Works, viii. 321.

[296] I have since had reason to think that I was mistaken; for I have been informed by a lady,
who was long intimate with her, and likely to be a more accurate observer of such matters,
that she had acquired such a niceness of touch, as to know, by the feeling on the outside of
the cup, how near it was to being full. BOSWELL. Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters,
ii. 84, says:--'I dined with Dr. Johnson as seldom as I could, though often scolded for it;
but I hated to see the victuals pawed by poor Mrs. Williams, that would often carve, though
stone blind.'

[297] See ante, July 1 and Aug. 2, 1763.

[298] See ante, i. 232.

[299] An Italian quack who in 1765 established medicated baths in Cheney Walk, Chelsea. CROKER.

[300] The same saying is recorded post, May 15, 1784, and in Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 5, 1773.
'Cooke reports another saying of Goldsmith's to the same effect:--"There's no chance for you
in arguing with Johnson. Like the Tartar horse, if he does not conquer you in front, his kick
from behind is sure to be fatal."' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 167. 'In arguing,' wrote Sir Joshua
Reynolds, 'Johnson did not trouble himself with much circumlocution, but opposed directly and
abruptly his antagonist. He fought with all sorts of weapons--ludicrous comparisons and similies;
if all failed, with rudeness and overbearing. He thought it necessary never to be worsted in
argument. He had one virtue which I hold one of the most difficult to practise. After the heat
of contest was over, if he had been informed that his antagonist resented his rudeness, he
was the first to seek after a reconciliation.... That he was not thus strenuous for victory
with his intimates in tete-a-tete conversations when there were no witnesses, may be easily
believed. Indeed, had his conduct been to them the same as he exhibited to the public, his
friends could never have entertained that love and affection for him which they all feel and
profess for his memory.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 457, 462.

[301] He had written the Introduction to it. Ante, p. 317.

[302] See post, beginning of 1770.

[303] He accompanied Boswell on his tour to the Hebrides. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 18, 1773.

[304] While he was in Scotland he never entered one of the churches. 'I will not give a sanction,'
he said, 'by my presence, to a Presbyterian assembly.' Ib Aug. 27, 1773. When he was in France
he went to a Roman Catholic service; post, Oct. 29, 1775.

[305] See post, March 21, 1772.

[306] See ante, ii. 82.

[307] See post, March 27, 1772.

[308] See post, May 7, 1773, Oct. 10, 1779, and June 9, 1784.

[309] St. James, v. 16.

[310] See post, June 28, 1777, note.

[311] Laceration was properly a term of surgery; hence the italics. See post, Jan. 20, 1780.

[312] See post, April 15, 1778.

[313] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 12, 1773.

[314] He bids us pray 'For faith that panting for a happier seat, Counts death kind nature's
signal of retreat.'

[315]

'To die is landing on some silent shore, Where billows never beat, nor tempests roar, Ere well
we feel the friendly stroke, 'tis o'er.'

GARTH. Quoted in Johnson's Works, vi. 61. Bacon, if he was the author of An Essay on Death,
says, 'I do not believe that any man fears to be dead, but only the stroke of death.' Spedding's
Bacon, vi. 600. Cicero (Tuscul. Quaest. i. 8) quotes Epicharmus's saying:--'Emori nolo, sed
me esse mortuum nihil aestimo.'

[316] See post, beginning of 1773.

[317] See post, April 17, 1778.

[318] Perhaps on is a misprint for or.

[319] Johnson says of Blackmore (Works, viii. 36) that 'he is one of those men whose lot it
has been to be much oftener mentioned by enemies than by friends.'

[320] This account Johnson says he had from an eminent bookseller, who had it from Ambrose
Philips the poet. 'The relation of Philips,' he adds, 'I suppose was true; but when all reasonable,
all credible allowance is made for this friendly revision, the author will still retain an
ample dividend of praise.... Correction seldom effects more than the suppression of faults:
a happy line, or a single elegance, may perhaps be added, but of a large work the general character
must always remain.' Works, viii. 41.

[321] An acute correspondent of the European Magazine, April, 1792, has completely exposed
a mistake which has been unaccountably frequent in ascribing these lines to Blackmore, notwithstanding
that Sir Richard Steele, in that very popular work, The Spectator, mentions them as written
by the Authour of The British Princes, the Honourable Edward Howard. The correspondent above
mentioned, shews this mistake to be so inveterate, that not only I defended the lines as Blackmore's,
in the presence of Dr. Johnson, without any contradiction or doubt of their authenticity, but
that the Reverend Mr. Whitaker has asserted in print, that he understands they were suppressed
in the late edition or editions of Blackmore. 'After all (says this intelligent writer) it
is not unworthy of particular observation, that these lines so often quoted do not exist either
in Blackmore or Howard.' In The British Princes, 8vo. 1669, now before me, p. 96, they stand
thus:--

'A vest as admired Voltiger had on, Which, from this Island's foes, his grandsire won, Whose
artful colour pass'd the Tyrian dye, Oblig'd to triumph in this legacy.'

It is probable, I think, that some wag, in order to make Howard still more ridiculous than
he really was, has formed the couplet as it now circulates. BOSWELL. Swift in his Poetry: A
Rhapsody, thus joins Howard and Blackmore together:--

'Remains a difficulty still, To purchase fame by writing ill. From Flecknoe down to Howard's
time How few have reached the low sublime! For when our high-born Howard died, Blackmore alone
his place supplied.'

Swift's Works (1803), xi. 296.

[322] Boswell seems to have borrowed the notion from The Spectator, No. 43, where Steele, after
saying that the poet blundered because he was 'vivacious as well as stupid,' continues:--'A
fool of a colder constitution would have staid to have flayed the Pict, and made buff of his
skin for the wearing of the conqueror.'

[323] See ante, ii. 100, note 1.

[324] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 97) tells how one day at Streatham 'when he was musing over the
fire, a young gentleman called to him suddenly, and I suppose he thought disrespectfully, in
these words:--"Mr. Johnson, would you advise me to marry?" "I would advise no man to marry,
Sir," returns for answer in a very angry tone Dr. Johnson, "who is not likely to propagate
understanding," and so left the room. Our companion looked confounded, and I believe had scarce
recovered the consciousness of his own existence, when Johnson came back, and drawing his chair
among us, with altered looks and a softened voice, joined in the general chat, insensibly led
the conversation to the subject of marriage, where he laid himself out in a dissertation so
useful, so elegant, so founded on the true knowledge of human life, and so adorned with beauty
of sentiment, that no one ever recollected the offence except to rejoice in its consequences.'
This 'young gentleman,' according to Mr. Hayward (Mrs. Piozzi's Auto. i. 69), was Sir John
Lade, the hero of the ballad which Johnson recited on his death-bed. For other instances of
Johnson's seeking a reconciliation, see post, May 7, 1773, and April 12 and May 8, 1778.

[325] 'The False Alarm, his first and favourite pamphlet, was written at our house between
eight o'clock on Wednesday night and twelve o'clock on Thursday night. We read it to Mr. Thrale
when he came very late home from the House of Commons.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 41. See also post,
Nov. 26, 1774, where Johnson says that 'The Patriot was called for by my political friends
on Friday, was written on Saturday.'

[326] Wilkes was first elected member for Middlesex at the General Election of March, 1768.
He did not take his seat, having been thrown into prison before Parliament met. On Feb. 3,
1769, he was declared incapable of being elected, and a new writ was ordered. On Feb. 16 he
was again elected, and without opposition. His election was again declared void. On March 16
he was a third time elected, and without opposition. His election was again declared void.
On April 13 he was a fourth time elected by 1143 votes against 296 given for Colonel Luttrell.
On the 14th the poll taken for him was declared null and void, and on the 15th, Colonel Luttrell
was declared duly elected. Parl. Hist. xvi. 437, and Almon's Wilkes, iv. 4. See post, Oct.
12, 1779.

[327] The resolution of expulsion was carried on Feb. 17, 1769. Parl. Hist. xvi. 577. It was
expunged on May 3, 1782. Ib xxii. 1407.

[328] In the original it is not rulers, but railers. Johnson's Works, vi. 176.

[329] How slight the change of system was is shown by a passage in Forster's Goldsmith, ii.
388. Mr. Forster mentions a 'memorial in favour of the most worthless of hack-partizans, Shebbeare,
which obtained for him his pension of L200 a year. It is signed by fifteen members of the House
of Commons, and it asks for a pension "that he may be enabled to pursue that laudable inclination
which he has of manifesting his zeal for the service of his Majesty and his Government"; in
other words, that a rascal shall be bribed to support a corrupt administration.' Horace Walpole,
in 1757 (Letters, iii. 54), described Shebbeare as one 'who made a pious resolution of writing
himself into a place or the pillory, but who miscarried in both views.' He added in a note,
'he did write himself into a pillory before the conclusion of that reign, and into a pension
at the beginning of the next, for one and the same kind of merit--writing against King William
and the Revolution.' See also post, end of May, 1781.

[330] Johnson could scarcely be soothed by lines such as the following:--

'Never wilt thou retain the hoarded store,
In virtue affluent, but in metal poor;
       *       *       *       *       *
Great is thy prose; great thy poetic strain,
Yet to dull coxcombs are they great in vain.

[331] Stockdale, who was born in 1736 and died in 1811, wrote Memoirs of his Life--a long,
dull book, but containing a few interesting anecdotes of Johnson. He thought himself, and the
world also, much ill-used by the publishers, when they passed him over and chose Johnson to
edit the Lives of the Poets. He lodged both in Johnson's Court and in Bolt Court, but preserved
little good-will for his neighbour. Johnson, in the Life of Waller (Works, vii. 194), quoting
from Stockdale's Life of that poet, calls him 'his last ingenious biographer.' I. D'Israeli
says that 'the bookseller Flexney complained that whenever this poet came to town, it cost
him L20. Flexney had been the publisher of Churchill's Works, and never forgetting the time
when he published The Rosciad, he was speculating all his life for another Churchill and another
quarto poem. Stockdale usually brought him what he wanted, and Flexney found the workman, but
never the work.' Calamities of Authors, ed. 1812, ii. 314.

[332] 'I believe most men may review all the lives that have passed within their observation
without remembering one efficacious resolution, or being able to tell a single instance of
a course of practice suddenly changed in consequence of a change of opinion, or an establishment
of determination.' Idler, No. 27. 'These sorrowful meditations fastened upon Rasselas's mind;
he passed four months in resolving to lose no more time in idle resolves.' Rasselas, ch. iv.

[333] Pr. and Med. p. 95. [p. 101.] BOSWELL.

[334] See ante, i. 368.

[335] The passage remains unrevised in the second edition.

[336] Johnson had suffered greatly from rheumatism this year, as well as from other disorders.
He mentions 'spasms in the stomach which disturbed me for many years, and for two past harassed
me almost to distraction.' These, however, by means of a strong remedy, had at Easter nearly
ceased. 'The pain,' he adds, 'harrasses me much; yet many leave the disease perhaps in a much
higher degree, with want of food, fire, and covering, which I find also grievous, with all
the succours that riches kindness can buy and give.' (He was staying at Mr. Thrale's) Pr. and
Med. pp. 92-95. 'Shall I ever,' he asks on Easter Day, 'receive the Sacrament with tranquility?
Surely the time will come.' Ib p. 99.

[337] Son of the learned Mrs. Grierson, who was patronised by the late Lord Granville, and
was the editor of several of the Classicks. BOSWELL.

[338]

'Pontificum libros, annosa volumina vatum, Dictitet Albano Musas in monte locutas.' 'Then swear
transported that the sacred Nine Pronounced on Alba's top each hallowed line.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epis. II. i. 26.

[339] See ante, i. 131, where Boswell says that 'Johnson afterwards honestly acknowledged the
merit of Walpole.'

[340] See post, May 15, 1783.

[341] 'His acquaintance was sought by persons of the first eminence in literature; and his
house, in respect of the conversations there, became an academy.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 329.
See ante, i. 247, 350, note 3.

[342] Probably Madame de Boufflers. See post, under November 12, 1775.

[343] 'To talk in publick, to think in solitude, to read and hear, to inquire and answer inquiries,
is the business of a scholar.' Rasselas, ch. viii. Miss Burney mentions an amusing instance
of a consultation by letter. 'The letter was dated from the Orkneys, and cost Dr. Johnson eighteen
pence. The writer, a clergyman, says he labours under a most peculiar misfortune, for which
he can give no account, and which is that, though he very often writes letters to his friends
and others, he never gets any answers. He entreats, therefore, that Dr. Johnson will take this
into consideration, and explain to him to what so strange a thing may be attributed.' Mme.
D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 96.

[344] 'How he [Swift] spent the rest of his time, and how he employed his hours of study, has
been inquired with hopeless curiosity. For who can give an account of another's studies? Swift
was not likely to admit any to his privacies, or to impart a minute account of his business
or his leisure.' Johnson's Works, viii. 208.

[345] See post, March 31, 1772.

[346] 'He loved the poor,' says Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 84), 'as I never yet saw any one else
do, with an earnest desire to make them happy. "What signifies," says some one, "giving half-pence
to common beggars? they only lay it out in gin or tobacco." "And why should they be denied
such sweeteners of their existence?" says Johnson.' The harm done by this indiscriminate charity
had been pointed out by Fielding in his Covent Garden Journal for June 2, 1752. He took as
the motto for the paper:

'O bone, ne te Frustrere, insanis et tu';

which he translates, 'My good friend, do not deceive thyself; for with all thy charity thou
also art a silly fellow.' 'Giving our money to common beggars,' he describes as 'a kind of
bounty that is a crime against the public.' Fielding's Works, x. 77, ed. 1806. Johnson once
allowed (post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection) that 'one might give away L500 a year to
those that importune in the streets, and not do any good.' See also post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[347] He was once attacked, though whether by robbers is not made clear. See post, under Feb.
7, 1775.

[348] Perhaps it was this class of people which is described in the following passage:--'It
was never against people of coarse life that his contempt was expressed, while poverty of sentiment
in men who considered themselves to be company for the parlour, as he called it, was what he
would not bear.' Piozzi's Anec. 215.

[349] See ante, i. 320, for one such offer.

[350] See ante, i. 163, note 1, and post, March 30, 1781.

[351] Dr. T. Campbell, in his Survey of the South of Ireland, ed. 1777 (post, April 5, 1775),
says:--'By one law of the penal code, if a Papist have a horse worth fifty, or five hundred
pounds, a Protestant may become the purchaser upon paying him down five. By another of the
same code, a son may say to his father, "Sir, if you don't give me what money I want, I'll
turn discoverer, and in spite of you and my elder brother too, on whom at marriage you settled
your estate, I shall become heir,"' p. 251. Father O'Leary, in his Remarks on Wesley's Letter,
published in 1780 (post, Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773), says (p. 41):--'He has seen the venerable
matron, after twenty-four years' marriage, banished from the perjured husband's house, though
it was proved in open court that for six months before his marriage he went to mass. But the
law requires that he should be a year and a day of the same religion.' Burke wrote in 1792:
'The Castle [the government in Dublin] considers the out-lawry (or what at least I look on
as such) of the great mass of the people as an unalterable maxim in the government of Ireland.'
Burke's Corres., iii. 378. See post, ii. 130, and May 7, 1773, and Oct. 12, 1779.

[352] See post, just before Feb. 18, 1775.

[353] 'Of Sheridan's writings on elocution, Johnson said, they were a continual renovation
of hope, and an unvaried succession of disappointments.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 197. See
post, May 17, 1783.

[354] In 1753, Jonas Hanway published his Travels to Persia.

[355] 'Though his journey was completed in eight days he gave a relation of it in two octavo
volumes.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 352. See ante, i. 313.

[356] See ante, i. 68, and post, June 9, 1784, note, where he varies the epithet, calling it
'the best piece of parenetic divinity.'

[357] '"I taught myself," Law tells us, "the high Dutch language, on purpose to know the original
words of the blessed Jacob."' Overton's Life of Law, p. 181. Behmen, or Boehme, the mystic
shoemaker of Gorlitz, was born in 1575, and died in 1624. 'His books may not hold at all honourable
places in libraries; his name may be ridiculous. But he was a generative thinker. What he knew
he knew for himself. It was not transmitted to him, but fought for.' F.D. Maurice's Moral and
Meta. Phil. ii. 325. Of Hudibras's squire, Ralph, it was said:

'He Anthroposophus, and Floud, And Jacob Behmen understood.'

Hudibras, I. i. 541. 4.

[359] See ante, i. 458. In Humphry Clinker, in the Letter of June 11, the turnkey of Clerkenwell
Prison thus speaks of a Methodist:--'I don't care if the devil had him; here has been nothing
but canting and praying since the fellow entered the place. Rabbit him! the tap will be ruined--we
han't sold a cask of beer nor a dozen of wine, since he paid his garnish--the gentlemen get
drunk with nothing but your damned religion.'

[360] 'John Wesley probably paid more for turnpikes than any other man in England, for no other
person travelled so much.' Southey's Wesley, i. 407. 'He tells us himself, that he preached
about 800 sermons in a year.' Ib ii. 532. In one of his Appeals to Men of Reason and Religion,
he asks:--'Can you bear the summer sun to beat upon your naked head? Can you suffer the wintry
rain or wind, from whatever quarter it blows? Are you able to stand in the open air, without
any covering or defence, when God casteth abroad his snow like wool, or scattereth his hoar-frost
like ashes? And yet these are some of the smallest inconveniences which accompany field-preaching.
For beyond all these, are the contradiction of sinners, the scoffs both of the great vulgar
and the small; contempt and reproach of every kind--often more than verbal affronts--stupid,
brutal violence, sometimes to the hazard of health, or limbs, or life. Brethren, do you envy
us this honour? What, I pray you, would buy you to be a field-preacher? Or what, think you,
could induce any man of common sense to continue therein one year, unless he had a full conviction
in himself that it was the will of God concerning him?' Southey's Wesley, i. 405.

[361] Stockdale reported to Johnson, that Pope had told Lyttelton that the reason why he had
not translated Homer into blank verse was 'that he could translate it more easily into rhyme.
"Sir," replied Johnson, "when the Pope said that, he knew that he lied."' Stockdale's Memoirs,
ii. 44. In the Life of Somervile, Johnson says:--'If blank verse be not tumid and gorgeous,
it is crippled prose.' Johnson's Works, viii. 95. See post beginning of 1781.

[362] Ephesians, v. 20.

[363] In the original--'Yet all hope pleasure in what yet remain' See post June 12, 1784.

[364] See post under Aug 29, 1783, and Boswell's Hebrides Oct 14, 1773.

[365] 'The chief glory of every people arises from its authours.' Johnson's Works, v 49.

[366] In a Discourse by Sir William Jones, addressed to the Asiatick Society [in Calcutta],
Feb. 24, 1785, is the following passage:--

'One of the most sagacious men in this age who continues, I hope, to improve and adorn it,
Samuel Johnson [he had been dead ten weeks], remarked in my hearing, that if Newton had flourished
in ancient Greece, he would have been worshipped as a Divinity.' MALONE. Johnson, in An Account
of an Attempt to ascertain the Longitude (Works, v, 299), makes the supposed author say:--'I
have lived till I am able to produce in my favour the testimony of time, the inflexible enemy
of false hypotheses; the only testimony which it becomes human understanding to oppose to the
authority of Newton.'

[367] Murphy (Life, p. 91) places the scene of such a conversation in the house of the Bishop
of Salisbury. 'Boscovitch,' he writes, 'had a ready current flow of that flimsy phraseology
with which a priest may travel through Italy, Spain, and Germany. Johnson scorned what he called
colloquial barbarisms. It was his pride to speak his best. He went on, after a little practice,
with as much facility as if it was his native tongue. One sentence this writer well remembers.
Observing that Fontenelle at first opposed the Newtonian philosophy, and embraced it afterwards,
his words were:--"Fontenellus, ni fallor, in extrema senectute fuit transfuga ad castra Newtoniana."'
See post, under Nov. 12, 1775. Boscovitch, the Jesuit astronomer, was a professor in the University
of Pavia. When Dr. Burney visited him, 'he complained very much of the silence of the English
astronomers, who answer none of his letters.' Burney's Tour in France and Italy, p. 92.

[368] See post, in 1781, the Life of Lyttelton.

[369] The first of Macpherson's forgeries was Fragments of Ancient Poetry collected in the
Highlands. Edinburgh, 1760. In 1762, he published in London, The Works of Ossian, the son of
Fingal, 2 vols. Vol. i. contained Fingal, an Ancient Epic Poem, in six Books. See post, Jan 1775.

[370] Horace, Ars Poetica, l. 41.

[371] Perhaps Johnson had some ill-will towards attorneys, such as he had towards excisemen
(ante, i. 36, note 5 and 294). In London, which was published in May, 1738, he couples them
with street robbers:

'Their ambush here relentless ruffians lay, And here the fell attorney prowls for prey.'

Works, i. 1. In a paper in the Gent. Mag. for following June (p. 287), written, I have little
doubt, by him, the profession is this savagely attacked:--'Our ancestors, in ancient times,
had some regard to the moral character of the person sent to represent them in their national
assemblies, and would have shewn some degree of resentment or indignation, had their votes
been asked for murderer, an adulterer, a know oppressor, an hireling evidence, an attorney,
a gamester, or pimp.' In the Life of Blackmere (Works, viii. 36) he has a sly hit at the profession.
'Sir Richard Blackmore was the son of Robert Blackmore, styled by Wood gentleman, and supposed
to have been an attorney.' We may compare Goldsmith's lines in Retaliation:--'Then what was
his failing? come tell it, and burn ye,--

'He was, could he help it? a special attorney.'

See also post, under June 16, 1784.

[372] See ante, i. Appendix F.

[373] Dr. Maxwell is perhaps here quoting the Idler, No. 69, where Johnson, speaking of Bioethics
on the Confronts of Philosophy, calls it 'the book which seems to have been the favourite of
the middle ages.'

[374] Yet it is Murphy's tragedy of Zenobia that Mrs. Piozzi writes (Anec. p. 280):--'A gentleman
carried Dr. Johnson his tragedy, which because he loved the author, he took, and it lay about
our rooms some time. "Which answer did you give your friend, Sir?" said I, after the book had
been called for. "I told him," replied he, "that there was too Tig and Terry in it." Seeing
me laugh most violently, "Why, what would'st have, child?" said he. "I looked at nothing but
the dramatis [personae], and there was Tigranes and Tiridates, or Teribaeus, or such stuff.
A man can tell but what he knows, and I never got any further than the first pages."' In Zenobia
two and Tigranes.

[375] Hume was one who had this idle dream. Shortly before his death one of his friends wrote:--'He
still maintains that the national debt must be the ruin of Britain; and laments that the two
most civilised nations, the English and French, should be on the decline; and the barbarians,
the Goths and Vandals of Germany and Russia, should be rising in power and renown.' J. H. Burton's
Hume, ii. 497.

[376] Hannah More was with Dr. Kennicott at his death. 'Thus closed a life,' she wrote (Memoirs,
i. 289), 'the last thirty years of which were honourably spent in collating the Hebrew Scriptures.'
See also Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 16, 1773.

[377] Johnson (Works, viii. 467) says that Mallet, in return for what he wrote against Byng,
'had a considerable pension bestowed upon him, which he retained to his death.' See ante, i. 268.

[378] See ante, ii. 76.

[379] 'It is dangerous for a man and woman to suspend their fate upon each other at a time
when opinions are fixed, and habits are established; when friendships have been contracted
on both sides; when life has been planned into method, and the mind has long enjoyed the contemplation
of its own prospects.' Rasselas, ch. xxix.

[380] Malone records that 'Cooper was round and fat. Dr. Warton, one day, when dining with
Johnson, urged in his favour that he was, at least, very well informed, and a good scholar.
"Yes," said Johnson, "it cannot be denied that he has good materials for playing the fool,
and he makes abundant use of them."' Prior's Malone, p. 428. See post, Sept. 15, 1777, note.

[381] See post, Sept 21, 1777, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22, 1773.

[382] But see ante, i. 299, where Johnson owned that his happier days had come last.

[383]

'In youth alone unhappy mortals live, But ah! the mighty bliss is fugitive; Discolour'd sickness,
anxious labours come, And age, and death's inexorable doom.'

DRYDEN. Virgil, Georgics, iii. 66. In the first edition Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea ended here.
What follows was given in the second edition in Additions received after the second edition
was printed, i. v.

[384] To Glaucus. Clarke's translation is:--'Ut semper fortissime rem gererem, et superior
virtute essem aliis.' Iliad, vi. 208. Cowper's version is:--

'That I should outstrip always all mankind In worth and valour.'

[385] Maxwell calls him his old master, because Sharpe was Master of the Temple when Maxwell
was assistant preacher. CROKER.

[386] Dr. T. Campbell, in his Survey of the South of Ireland, p. 185, writes: 'In England the
meanest cottager is better fed, better lodged, and better dressed than the most opulent farmers
here.' See post, Oct. 19, 1779.

[387] In the vice-royalty of the Duke of Bedford, which began in Dec. 1756, 'in order to encourage
tillage a law was passed granting bounties on the land carriage of corn and flour to the metropolis.'
Lecky's Hist. of Eng. ii. 435. In 1773-4 a law was passed granting bounties upon the export
of Irish corn to foreign countries. Ib iv. 415.

[388] See ante, i. 434.

[389] See ante, ii. 121. Lord Kames, in his Sketches of the History of Man, published in 1774,
says:--'In Ireland to this day goods exported are loaded with a high duty, without even distinguishing
made work from raw materials; corn, for example, fish, butter, horned cattle, leather, &c.
And, that nothing may escape, all goods exported that are not contained in the book of rates,
pay five per cent, ad valorem.' ii. 413. These export duties were selfishly levied in what
was supposed to be the interest of England. 1786, i. 20] and in Burke's Letters on a Regicide
Peace [Payne's Burke, p. 9]. 183. Dr. J.H. Burton says:--'Dr. Brown's book is said to have
run to a seventh edition in a few months. It is rather singular that the edition marked as
the seventh has precisely the same matter in each page, and the same number of pages as the
first.' Life of Hume, ii. 23. Brown wrote two tragedies, Barbarossa and Athelstan, both of
which Garrick brought out at Drury Lane. In Barbarossa Johnson observed 'that there were two
improprieties; in the first place, the use of a bell is unknown to the Mahometans; and secondly,
Otway had tolled a bell before Dr. Brown, and we are not to be made April fools twice by the
same trick.' Murphy's Garrick, p. 173. Brown's vanity is shown in a letter to Garrick (Garrick
Corres. i. 220) written on Jan. 19, 1766, in which he talks of going to St. Petersburg, and
drawing up a System of Legislation for the Russian Empire. In the following September, in a
fit of madness, he made away with himself.

[391] See post, May 8, 1781.

[392] Horace Walpole, writing in May, 1764, says:--'The Earl of Northumberland returned from
Ireland, where his profusion and ostentation had been so great that it seemed to lay a dangerous
precedent for succeeding governors.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 417. He was created
Duke in 1766. For some pleasant anecdotes about this nobleman and Goldsmith, see Goldsmith's
Misc. Works, i. 66, and Forster's Goldsmith, i. 379, and ii. 227.

[393] Johnson thus writes of him (Works, viii. 207):--'The Archbishop of Dublin gave him at
first some disturbance in the exercise of his jurisdiction; but it was soon discovered that
between prudence and integrity he was seldom in the wrong; and that, when he was right, his
spirit did not easily yield to opposition.' He adds: 'He delivered Ireland from plunder and
oppression, and showed that wit confederated with truth had such force as authority was unable
to resist. He said truly of himself that Ireland "was his debtor." It was from the time when
he first began to patronise the Irish, that they may date their riches and prosperity.' Ib
p. 319. Pope, in his Imitations of Horace, II. i. 221, says:--

'Let Ireland tell how wit upheld her cause, Her trade supported, and supplied her laws; And
leave on Swift this grateful verse engraved, "The rights a Court attacked, a poet saved."'

[394] These lines have been discovered by the author's second son in the London Magazine for
July 1732, where they form part of a poem on Retirement, copied, with some slight variations,
from one of Walsh's smaller poems, entitled The Retirement. They exhibit another proof that
Johnson retained in his memory fragments of neglected poetry. In quoting verses of that description,
he appears by a slight variation to have sometimes given them a moral turn, and to have dexterously
adapted them to his own sentiments, where the original had a very different tendency. In 1782,
when he was at Brighthelmstone, he repeated to Mr. Metcalfe, some verses, as very characteristic
of a celebrated historian [Gibbon]. They are found among some anonymous poems appended to the
second volume of a collection frequently printed by Lintot, under the title of Pope's Miscellanies:--

'See how the wand'ring Danube flows,
   Realms and religions parting;
A friend to all true Christian foes,
   To Peter, Jack, and Martin.
Now Protestant, and Papist now,
   Not constant long to either,
At length an infidel does grow,
  And ends his journey neither.
Thus many a youth I've known set out,
   Half Protestant, half Papist,
And rambling long the world about,
   Turn infidel or atheist.'

MALONE. See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection, and Boswell's Hebrides Aug. 27, and Oct.
28, 1773.

[395] Juvenal, Sat. iii. 1. 2.

'Yet still my calmer thoughts his choice commend.'

Johnson's London, 1. 3.

[396] It was published without the authors name.

[397] 'What have we acquired? What but ... an island thrown aside from human use; ... an island
which not the southern savages have dignified with habitation.' Works, vi. 198.

[398] 'It is wonderful with what coolness and indifference the greater part of mankind see
war commenced. Those that hear of it at a distance, or read of it in books, but have never
presented its evils to their minds, consider it as little more than a splendid game, a proclamation,
an army, a battle, and a triumph. Some, indeed, must perish in the most successful field, but
they die upon the bed of honour, "resign their lives, amidst the joys of conquest, and, filled
with England's glory, smile in death." The life of a modern soldier is ill-represented by heroic
fiction. War has means of destruction more formidable than the cannon and the sword.

Of the thousands and ten thousands that perished in our late contests with France and Spain,
a very small part ever felt the stroke of an enemy; the rest languished in tents and ships,
amidst damps and putrefaction; pale, torpid, spiritless, and helpless; gasping and groaning,
unpitied among men made obdurate by long continuance of hopeless misery; and were at last whelmed
in pits, or heaved into the ocean, without notice and without remembrance. By incommodious
encampments and unwholesome stations, where courage is useless, and enterprise impracticable,
fleets are silently dispeopled, and armies sluggishly melted away.' Works, vi. 199.

[399] Johnson wrote of the Earl of Chatham:--'This surely is a sufficient answer to the feudal
gabble of a man who is every day lessening that splendour of character which once illuminated
the kingdom, then dazzled, and afterwards inflamed it; and for whom it will be happy if the
nation shall at last dismiss him to nameless obscurity, with that equipoise of blame and praise
which Corneille allows to Richelieu.' Works, vi. 197.

[400] Ephesians, vi. 12. Johnson (Works, vi. 198) calls Junius 'one of the few writers of his
despicable faction whose name does not disgrace the page of an opponent.' But he thus ends
his attack;--'What, says Pope, must be the priest where a monkey is the god? What must be the
drudge of a party of which the heads are Wilkes and Crosby, Sawbridge and Townsend?' Ib p. 206.

[401] This softening was made in the later copies of the first edition. A second change seems
to have been made. In the text, as given in Murphy's edition (1796, viii. 137), the last line
of the passage stands:--'If he was sometimes wrong, he was often right.' Horace Walpole describes
Grenville's 'plodding, methodic genius, which made him take the spirit of detail for ability.'
Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 36. For the fine character that Burke drew of him see
Payne's Burke, i. 122. There is, I think, a hit at Lord Bute's Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Sir F. Dashwood (Lord Le Despencer), who was described as 'a man to whom a sum of five figures
was an impenetrable secret.' Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 172, note. He
himself said, 'People will point at me, and cry, "there goes the worst Chancellor of the Exchequer
that ever appeared."' Ib p. 250.

[402] Boswell, I suspect, quoted this passage from hearsay, for originally it stood:--'If he
could have got the money, he could have counted it' (p. 68). In the British Museum there are
copies of the first edition both softened and unsoftened.

[403] Thoughts on the late Transactions respecting Falkland's Islands. BOSWELL.

[404] By comparing the first with the subsequent editions, this curious circumstance of ministerial
authorship may be discovered. BOSWELL.

[405] Navigation was the common term for canals, which at that time were getting rapidly made.
A writer in Notes and Queries, 6th, xi. 64, shows that Langton, as payment of a loan, undertook
to pay Johnson's servant, Frank, an annuity for life, secured on profits from the navigation
of the River Wey in Surrey.

[406] It was, Mr. Chalmers told me, a saying about that time, 'Married a Countess Dowager of
Rothes!' 'Why, everybody marries a Countess Dowager of Rothes!' And there were in fact, about
1772, three ladies of that name married to second husbands. CROKER. Mr. Langton married one
of these ladies.

[407] The Hermit of Warkworth: A Ballad in three cantos. T. Davis, 25. 6d. Cradock (Memoirs,
i. 207) quotes Johnson's parody on a stanza in The Hermit:

'I put my hat upon my head,
 And walked into the Strand,
 And there I met another man
 With his hat in his hand.'

'Mr. Garrick,' he continues, 'asked me whether I had seen Johnson's criticism on the Hermit.
"It is already," said he, "over half the town."'

[408] '"I am told," says a letter-writer of the day, "that Dr. Goldsmith now generally lives
with his countryman, Lord Clare, who has lost his only son, Colonel Nugent."' Forster's Goldsmith,
ii. 228. 'The Haunch of Venison was written this year (1771), and appears to have been written
for Lord Clare alone; nor was it until two years after the writer's death that it obtained
a wider audience than his immediate circle of friends.' Ib p. 230. See post, April 17, 1778.

[409] Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 222) mentions Mr. Strahan:--'I agreed upon easy terms with Mr.
Thomas Cadell, a respectable bookseller, and Mr. William Strahan, an eminent printer, and they
undertook the care and risk of the publication [of the Decline and Fall], which derived more
credit from the name of the shop than from that of the author.... So moderate were our hopes,
that the original impression had been stinted to five hundred, till the number was doubled
by the prophetic taste of Mr. Strahan.' Hume, by his will, left to Strahan's care all his manuscripts,
'trusting,' he says, 'to the friendship that has long subsisted between us for his careful
and faithful execution of my intentions.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 494. See ib. p. 512, for
a letter written to Hume on his death-bed by Strahan.

[410] Dr. Franklin, writing of the year 1773, says (Memoirs, i. 398):--'An acquaintance (Mr.
Strahan, M.P.) calling on me, after having just been at the Treasury, showed me what he styled
a pretty thing, for a friend of his; it was an order for L150, payable to Dr. Johnson, said
to be one half of his yearly pension.'

[411] See post, July 27, 1778.

[412] Hawkins (Life, p. 513) says that Mr. Thrale made the same attempt. 'He had two meetings
with the ministry, who at first seemed inclined to find Johnson a seat.' 'Lord Stowell told
me,' says Mr. Croker, 'that it was understood amongst Johnson's friends that Lord North was
afraid that Johnson's help (as he himself said of Lord Chesterfield's) might have been sometimes
embarrassing. "He perhaps thought, and not unreasonably," added Lord Stowell, "that, like the
elephant in the battle, he was quite as likely to trample down his friends as his foes."' Lord
Stowell referred to Johnson's letter to Chesterfield (ante, i. 262), in which he describes
a patron as 'one who encumbers a man with help.'

[413] Boswell married his cousin Margaret Montgomerie on Nov. 25, 1769. On the same day his
father married for the second time. Scots Mag. for 1769, p. 615. Boswell, in his Letter to
the People of Scotland (p. 55), published in 1785, describes his wife as 'a true Montgomerie,
whom I esteem, whom I love, after fifteen years, as on the day when she gave me her hand.'
See his Hebrides, Aug. 14, 1773.

[414]

'Musis amicus, tristitiam et metus Tradam, &c.

While in the Muse's friendship blest, Nor fear, nor grief, shall break my rest; Bear them,
ye vagrant winds, away, And drown them in the Cretan Sea.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, i. 26. I.

[415] Horace. Odes, i. 22. 5.

[416] Lord Elibank wrote to Boswell two years later:--'Old as I am, I shall be glad to go five
hundred miles to enjoy a day of Mr. Johnson's company.' Boswell's Hebrides under date of Sept.
12, 1773. See ib. Nov. 10, and post, April 5, 1776.

[417] Goldsmith wrote to Langton on Sept. 7, 1771:--'Johnson has been down upon a visit to
a country parson, Doctor Taylor, and is returned to his old haunts at Mrs. Thrale's.' Goldsmith's
Misc. Works, i. 93.

[418] While Miss Burney was examining a likeness of Johnson, 'he no sooner discerned it than
he began see-sawing for a moment or two in silence; and then, with a ludicrous half-laugh,
peeping over her shoulder, he called out:--"Ah, ha! Sam Johnson! I see thee!--and an ugly dog
thou art!"' Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 180. In another passage (p. 197), after describing 'the
kindness that irradiated his austere and studious features into the most pleased and pleasing
benignity,' as he welcomed her and her father to his house, she adds that a lady who was present
often exclaimed, 'Why did not Sir Joshua Reynolds paint Dr. Johnson when he was speaking to
Dr. Burney or to you?'

[419] 'Johnson,' wrote Beattie from London on Sept. 8 of this year, 'has been greatly misrepresented.
I have passed several entire days with him, and found him extremely agreeable.' Beattie's Life,
ed. 1824, p. 120.

[420] He was preparing the fourth edition, See post, March 23, 1772.

[421] 'Sept. 18, 1771, 9 at night. I am now come to my sixty-third year. For the last year
I have been slowly recovering both from the violence of my last illness, and, I think, from
the general disease of my life: ... some advances I hope have been made towards regularity.
I have missed church since Easter only two Sundays.... But indolence and indifference has [sic]
been neither conquered nor opposed.' Pr. and Med. p. 104.

[422] 'Let us search and try our ways.' Lamentations iii. 40.

[423] Pr. and Med. p. 101 [105]. BOSWELL.

[424] Boswell forgets the fourth edition of his Dictionary. Johnson, in Aug. 1771 (ante, p.
142), wrote to Langton:--'I am engaging in a very great work, the revision of my Dictionary.'
In Pr. and Med. p. 123, at Easter, 1773, as he 'reviews the last year,' he records:--'Of the
spring and summer I remember that I was able in those seasons to examine and improve my Dictionary,
and was seldom withheld from the work but by my own unwillingness.'

[425] Thus translated by a friend:--

'In fame scarce second to the nurse of Jove, This Goat, who twice the world had traversed round,
Deserving both her masters care and love, Ease and perpetual pasture now has found.'

BOSWELL.

[426] Cockburn (Life of Jeffrey, i. 4) says that the High School of Edinburgh, in 1781, 'was
cursed by two under master, whose atrocities young men cannot be made to believe, but old men
cannot forget, and the criminal law would not now endure.'

[427] Mr. Langton married the Countess Dowager of Rothes. BOSWELL.

[428] From school. See ante, ii. 62.

[429] See ante, i. 44.

[430] Johnson used to say that schoolmasters were worse than the Egyptian task-masters of old.
'No boy,' says he, 'is sure any day he goes to school to escape a whipping. How can the schoolmaster
tell what the boy has really forgotten, and what he has neglected to learn?' Johnson's Works
(1787), xi. 209. 'I rejoice,' writes J. S. Mill (Auto. p. 53), 'in the decline of the old,
brutal, and tyrannical system of teaching, which, however, did succeed in enforcing habits
of application; but the new, as it seems to me, is training up a race of men who be incapable
of doing anything which is disagreeable to them.'

[431] See ante, i. 373.

[432] See ante, ii. 74.

[433] The ship in which Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander were to have sailed was the Endeavour. It
was, they said, unfit for the voyage. The Admiralty altered it in such a way as to render it
top-heavy. It was nearly overset on going down the river. Then it was rendered safe by restoring
it to its former condition. When the explorers raised their former objections, they were told
to take it or none. Ann. Reg. xv. 108. See also Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 18, 1773.

[434] I suspect that Raleigh is here an error of Mr. Boswell's pen for Drake. CROKER. Johnson
had written Drake's Life, and therefore must have had it well in mind that it was Drake who
went round the world.

[435] Romeo and Juliet, act v. sc. 1.

[436] 'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'Edinburgh, May 3, 1792.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'As I suppose your great work will soon be reprinted, I beg leave to trouble you with a remark
on a passage of it, in which I am a little misrepresented. Be not alarmed; the misrepresentation
is not imputable to you. Not having the book at hand, I cannot specify the page, but I suppose
you will easily find it. Dr. Johnson says, speaking of Mrs. Thrale's family, "Dr. Beattie sunk
upon us that he was married, or words to that purpose." I am not sure that I understand sunk
upon us, which is a very uncommon phrase, but it seems to me to imply, (and others, I find,
have understood it in the same sense,) studiously concealed from us his being married. Now,
Sir, this was by no means the case. I could have no motive to conceal a circumstance, of which
I never was nor can be ashamed; and of which Dr. Johnson seemed to think, when he afterwards
became acquainted with Mrs. Beattie, that I had, as was true, reason to be proud. So far was
I from concealing her, that my wife had at that time almost as numerous an acquaintance in
London as I had myself; and was, not very long after, kindly invited and elegantly entertained
at Streatham by Mr. and Mrs. Thrale.

'My request, therefore, is, that you would rectify this matter in your new edition. You are
at liberty to make what use you please of this letter.

'My best wishes ever attend you and your family. Believe me to be, with the utmost regard and
esteem, dear Sir,

'Your obliged and affectionate humble servant, J. BEATTIE.'

I have, from my respect for my friend Dr. Beattie, and regard to his extreme sensibility, inserted
the foregoing letter, though I cannot but wonder at his considering as any imputation a phrase
commonly used among the best friends. BOSWELL. Mr. Croker says there was a cause for the 'extreme
sensibility.' 'Dr. Beattie was conscious that there was something that might give a colour
to such an imputation. It became known, shortly after the date of this letter, that the mind
of Mrs. Beattie had become deranged.' Beattie would have found in Johnson's Dictionary an explanation
of sunk upon us--'To sink. To suppress; to conceal. "If sent with ready money to buy anything,
and you happen to be out of pocket, sink the money and take up the goods on account."' Swift's
Rules to Servants, Works, viii. 256.

[437] See ante, i 450.

[438] See ante, ii. 10.

[439] See Post, April 15, 1778, note, and June 12, 1784.

[440] See ante, i. 405.

[441] St. John, xv. 24

[442] See note, p. 51 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[443] See ante, ii. 105.

[444] The petition was presented on Feb. 6 of this year. By a majority thrown of 217 to 71
leave was refused for it to be brought up. Parl. Hist. xvii. 245-297. Gibbon, in a letter dated
Feb. 8, 1772 (Misc. Works, ii. 74), congratulates Mr. Holroyd 'on the late victory of our dear
mamma, the Church of England. She had, last Thursday, 71 rebellious sons, who pretended to
set aside her will on account of insanity; but 217 worthy champions, headed by Lord North,
Burke, and Charles Fox, though they allowed the thirty-nine clauses of her testament were absurd
and unreasonable, supported the validity of it with infinite humour. By the by, Charles Fox
prepared himself for that holy war by passing twenty-two hours in the pious exercise of hazard;
his devotion cost him only about L500 per hour--in all, L11,000.' See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug.
19, 1773.

[445] 'Lord George Germayne,' writes Horace Walpole, 'said that he wondered the House did not
take some steps on this subject with regard to the Universities, where boys were made to subscribe
to the Articles without reading them--a scandalous abuse.' Journal of the Reign of George III,
i. 11.

[446] See ante, ii. 104.

[447] Burke had thus answered Boswell's proposal:--'What is that Scripture to which they are
content to subscribe? The Bible is a vast collection of different treatises; a man who holds
the divine authority of one may consider the other as merely human. Therefore, to ascertain
Scripture you must have one Article more, and you must define what that Scripture is which
you mean to teach.' Parl. Hist. xvii. 284.

[448] Dr. Nowell (post, June 11, 1784) had this year preached the fast sermon before the House
of Commons on Jan. 30, the anniversary of the execution of Charles I, and received the usual
vote of thanks. Parl. Hist. xvii. 245. On Feb. 25 the entry of the vote was, without a division,
ordered to be expunged. On the publication of the sermon it had been seen that Nowell had asserted
that George III was endued with the same virtues as Charles I, and that the members of the
House were the descendants of those who had opposed that King. Ib p. 313, and Ann. Reg. xv.
79. On March 2, Mr. Montague moved for leave to bring in a bill to abolish the fast, but it
was refused by 125 to 97. Parl. Hist. xvii. 319. The fast was abolished in 1859--thirteen years
within the century that Johnson was ready to allow it. 'It is remarkable,' writes Horace Walpole,
'that George III had never from the beginning of his reign gone to church on the 30th of January,
whereas George II always did.' Journal of the Reign of George III, i. 41.

[449] This passage puzzled Mr. Croker and Mr. Lockhart. The following extract from the Gent.
Mag. for Feb. 1772, p. 92, throws light on Johnson's meaning:--'This, say the opposers of the
Bill, is putting it in the King's power to change the order of succession, as he may for ever
prevent, if he is so minded, the elder branches of the family from marrying, and therefore
may establish the succession in the younger. Be this as it may, is it not, in fact, converting
the holy institution of marriage into a mere state contract?' See also the Protest of fourteen
of the peers in Parl. Hist. xvii. 391, and post, April 15, 1773. Horace Walpole ends his account
of the Marriage Bill by saying:--'Thus within three weeks were the Thirty-nine Articles affirmed
and the New Testament deserted.' Journal of the Reign of George III, i. 37. How carelessly
this Act was drawn was shown by Lord Eldon, when Attorney-General, in the case of the marriage
of the Duke of Sussex to Lady Augusta Murray. 'Lord Thurlow said to me angrily at the Privy
Council, "Sir, why have you not prosecuted under the Act of Parliament all the parties concerned
in this abominable marriage?" To which I answered, "That it was a very difficult business to
prosecute--that the Act had been drawn by Lord Mansfield and Mr. Attorney-General Thurlow,
and Mr. Solicitor-General Wedderburne, and unluckily they had made all parties present at the
marriage guilty of felony; and as nobody could prove the marriage except a person who had been
present at it, there could be no prosecution, because nobody present could be compelled to
be a witness." This put an end to the matter.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 234.

[450] See post, May 9, 1773, and May 13, 1778.

[451] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773, where Johnson, discussing the same question, says:--'There
is generally a scoundrelism about a low man.'

[452] Mackintosh told Mr. Croker that this friend was Mr. Cullen, afterwards a judge by the
name of Lord Cullen. In Boswelliana (pp. 250-2), Boswell mentions him thrice, and always as
'Cullen the mimick.' His manner, he says, was wretched, and his physiognomy worse than Wilkes's.
Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 268) says that 'Cullen possessed the talent of mimicry beyond all
mankind; for his was not merely an exact imitation of voice and manner of speaking, but a perfect
exhibition of every man's manner of thinking on every subject.' Carlyle mentions two striking
instances of this.

[453] See post, May 15, 1776.

[454] 'The prince of Dublin printers,' as Swift called him. Swift's Works (1803), xviii. 288.
He was taken off by Foote under the name of Peter Paragraph, in The Orators, the piece in which
he had meant to take off Johnson (ante, ii. 95). 'Faulkner consoled himself (pending his prosecution
of the libeller) by printing the libel, and selling it most extensively.' Forster's Goldsmith,
i. 287. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 29.

[455] Faulkner had lost one of his legs. 'When Foote had his accident (ante, ii. 95), "Now
I shall take off old Faulkner indeed to the life," was the first remark he made when what he
had to suffer was announced to him.' Forster's Essays, ii. 400.

[456] A writer in the Monthly Review, lxxvi. 374 (no doubt Murphy), says:--'A large number
of friends such as Johnson, Mr. Burke, and Mr. Murphy dined at Garrick's at Christmas, 1760.
Foote was then in Dublin. It was said at table that he had been horse-whipped by an apothecary
for taking him off upon the stage. "But I wonder," said Garrick, "that any man would show so
much resentment to Foote; nobody ever thought it worth his while to quarrel with him in London."
"And I am glad," said Johnson, "to find that the man is rising in the world." The anecdote
was afterwards told to Foote, who in return gave out that he would in a short time produce
the Caliban of literature on the stage. Being informed of this design, Johnson sent word to
Foote, that, the theatre being intended for the reformation of vice, he would go from the boxes
on the stage, and correct him before the audience, Foote abandoned the design. No ill-will ensued.'

[457] See post, May 15, 1776, where Johnson says:--'I turned Boswell loose at Lichfield, my
native city, that he might see for once real civility.

[458] In my list of Boswell's projected works (ante, i. 225, note 2) I have omitted this.

[459] See post, April 7, 1775.

[460] Boswell visited Ireland in the summer of 1760. Prior's Goldsmith, i. 450.

[461] Puffendorf states that 'tutors and schoolmasters have a right to the moderate use of
gentle discipline over their pupils'--viii. 3-10; adding, rather superfluously, Grotius's caveat,
that 'it shall not extend to a power of death.' CROKER.

[462] The brother of Sir J. Macdonald, mentioned ante, i. 449. Johnson visited him in the Isle
of Skye. 'He had been very well pleased with him in London, but he was dissatisfied at hearing
heavy complaints of rents racked, and the people driven to emigration.' Boswell's Hebrides,
Sept. 2, 1773. He reproached him also with meanness as a host.

[463] Lord Campbell (Lives of the Chancellors, v. 449) points out that this conversation followed
close on the appointment of 'the incompetent Bathurst' as Chancellor. 'Such a conversation,'
he adds, 'would not have occurred during the chancellorship of Lord Hardwicke or Lord Somers.'

[464]

'But if at first he minds his hits,
 And drinks champagne among the wits,' &c.

Prior's Chameleon, 1. 39.

[465] 'Plain truth, dear Murray, needs no flowers of speech.' Pope thus addresses him in Epistle
vi. Book i. of his Imitations of Horace, which he dedicated to him.

[466] See ante, 386.

[467] See post, March 23, 1776.

[468] Afterwards Lord Ashburton. Described by Johnson (post, July 22, 1777), as 'Mr. Dunning,
the great lawyer.'

[469] 'Having cleared his tongue from his native pronunciation, so as to be no longer distinguished
as a Scot, he seems inclined to disencumber himself from all adherences of his original, and
took upon him to change his name from Scotch Malloch to English Mallet, without any imaginable
reason of preference which the eye or ear can discover. What other proofs he gave of disrespect
to his native country I know not, but it was remarked of him that he was the only Scot whom
Scotchmen did not commend.' Johnson's Works, viii. 464. See ante, i. 268, and post, April 28, 1783.

[470] Mr. Love was, so far as is known, the first who advised Boswell to keep a journal. When
Boswell was but eighteen, writing of a journey he had taken, he says: 'I kept an exact journal,
at the particular desire of my friend, Mr. Love, and sent it to him in sheets every post.'
Letters of Boswell, p. 8.

[471] 'That's villainous, and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it.' Hamlet,
iii. 2.

[472] Jeffrey wrote from Oxford, where he spent nine months in 1791-2:--'The only part of a
Scotchman I mean to abandon is the language, and language is all I expect to learn in England.'
(Cockburn's Jeffrey, i. 46). His biographer says:--'He certainly succeeded in the abandonment
of his habitual Scotch. The change was so sudden and so complete, that it excited the surprise
of his friends, and furnished others with ridicule for many years.... The result, on the whole,
was exactly as described by Lord Holland, who said that though Jeffrey "had lost the broad
Scotch at Oxford, he had only gained the narrow English."' Cockburn, in forgetfulness of Mallet's
case, says that 'the acquisition of a pure English accent by a full-grown Scotchman is fortunately
impossible.'

[473] Henry Dundas, afterwards Viscount Melville. See post, under Nov. 29, 1777. Boswell wrote
to Temple on May 22, 1775:--'Harry Dundas is going to be made King's Advocate--Lord Advocate
at thirty-three! I cannot help being angry and somewhat fretful at this; he has, to be sure,
strong parts, but he is a coarse, unlettered, unfanciful dog.' Letters of Boswell, p. 195.
Horace Walpole describes him as 'the rankest of all Scotchmen, and odious for that bloody speech
that had fixed on him the nick-name of Starvation! Journal of the Reign of George III, ii.
479. On p. 637 he adds:--'The happily coined word "starvation" delivered a whole continent
from the Northern harpies that meant to devour it.' The speech in which Dundas introduced starvation
was made in 1775. Walpole's Letters, viii. 30. See Parl. Hist., xviii. 387. His character is
drawn with great force by Cockburn. Life of Jeffrey, i. 77.

[474] The correspondent of Hume. See J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 320.

[475] See post, May 12, 1778.

[476] In the Plan (Works, v. 9), Johnson noticed the difference of the pronunciation of great.
'Some words have two sounds which may be equally admitted as being equally defensible by authority.
Thus great is differently used:--

'For Swift and him despised the farce of state, The sober follies of the wise and great.'--POPE.

'As if misfortune made the throne her seat, And none could be unhappy but the great.'--ROWE.

In the Preface to the Dictionary (Works, v. 25), Johnson says that 'the vowels are capriciously
pronounced, and differently modified by accident or affectation, not only in every province,
but in every mouth.' Swift gives both rhymes within ten lines:--

'My lord and he are grown so great-- Always together, tete-a-tete.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'You, Mr. Dean, frequent the great, Inform us, will the emperor treat?' Swift's Works (1803),
x. 110.

[477] 'Dr. Henry More, of Cambridge, Johnson did not much affect; he was a Platonist, and,
in Johnson's opinion, a visionary. He would frequently cite from him, and laugh at, a passage
to this effect:--"At the consummation of all things, it shall come to pass that eternity shall
shake hands with opacity"' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 543.

[478] See post, April 17, 1778, and May 19, 1784.

[479] See ante, i. 240, and ii. 105.

[480] Revelations, xiv. 2.

[481] Johnson, in The Rambler, No. 78, describes man's death as 'a change not only of the place,
but the manner of his being; an entrance into a state not simply which he knows not, but which
perhaps he has not faculties to know.'

[482] This fiction is known to have been invented by Daniel Defoe, and was added to Drelincourt's
book, to make it sell. The first edition had it not. MALONE. 'More than fifty editions have
not exhausted its popularity. The hundreds of thousands who have bought the silly treatise
of Drelincourt have borne unconscious testimony to the genius of De Foe.' Forster's Essays, ii. 70.

[483] See ante, i. 29.

[484] In his Life of Akenside ( Works, viii. 475) he says:--'Of Akenside's Odes nothing favourable
can be said.... To examine such compositions singly cannot be required; they have doubtless
brighter and darker parts; but when they are once found to be generally dull, all further labour
may be spared; for to what use can the work be criticised that will not be read?' See post,
April 10, 1776.

[485] See post, just before May 15, 1776.

[486] See post, Sept. 23, 1777.

[487] The account of his trial is entitled:--'The Grand Question in Religion Considered. Whether
we shall obey God or Man; Christ or the Pope; the Prophets and Apostles, or Prelates and Priests.
Humbly offered to the King and Parliament of Great Britain. By E. Elwall. With an account of
the Author's Tryal or Prosecution at Stafford Assizes before Judge Denton. London.' No date.
Elwall seems to have been a Unitarian Quaker. He was prosecuted for publishing a book against
the doctrines of the Trinity, but was discharged, being, he writes, treated by the Judge with
great humanity. In his pamphlet he says (p. 49):--'You see what I have already done in my former
book. I have challenged the greatest potentates on earth, yea, even the King of Great Britain,
whose true and faithful subject I am in all temporal things, and whom I love and honour; also
his noble and valiant friend, John Argyle, and his great friends Robert Walpole, Charles Wager,
and Arthur Onslow; all these can speak well, and who is like them; and yet, behold, none of
all these cared to engage with their friend Elwall.' See post, May 7, 1773. Dr. Priestley had
received an account of the trial from a gentleman who was present, who described Elwall as
'a tall man, with white hair, a large beard and flowing garments, who struck everybody with
respect. He spoke about an hour with great gravity, fluency, and presence of mind.' The trial
took place, he said, in 1726. 'It is impossible,' adds Priestley (Works, ed. 1831, ii. 417),
'for an unprejudiced person to read Elwall's account of his trial, without feeling the greatest
veneration for the writer.' In truth, Elwall spoke with all the simple power of the best of
the early Quakers.

[488] Boswell, in the Hypochrondriack (London Mag. 1783, p. 290), writing on swearing, says:--'I
have the comfort to think that my practice has been blameless in this respect.' He continues
(p. 293):-- 'To do the present age justice, there is much less swearing among genteel people
than in the last age.'

[489] 'The Life of Dr. Parnell is a task which I should very willingly decline, since it has
been lately written by Goldsmith, a man of such variety of powers, and such felicity of performance,
that he always seemed to do best that which he was doing.... What such an author has told,
who would tell again? I have made an abstract from his larger narrative, and have this gratification
from my attempt, that it gives me an opportunity of paying due tribute to the memory of Goldsmith.
[Greek: Togargerasesti Thanonton].' Johnson's Works, vii. 398.

[490] See ante, i. 26, and post, April 11, 1773.

[491] 'Mr. Ruffhead says of fine passages that they are fine, and of feeble passages that they
are feeble; but recommending poetical beauty is like remarking the splendour of sunshine; to
those who can see it is unnecessary, and to those who are blind, absurd.' Gent. Mag. May, 1769,
p. 255. The review in which this passage occurs, is perhaps in part Johnson's.

[492] See ante, i. 448.

[493] See post, April 5, 1775.

[494] It was Lewis XIV who said it. 'Toutes les fois que je donne une place vacante, je fais
cent mecontens et un ingrat.' Voltaire, Siecle de Louis XIV, ch. 26. 'When I give away a place,'
said Lewis XIV, 'I make an hundred discontented, and one ungrateful.' Johnson's Works, viii. 204.

[495] See post, May 15, 1783.

[496] This project has since been realized. Sir Henry Liddel, who made a spirited tour into
Lapland, brought two rein-deer to his estate in Northumberland, where they bred; but the race
has unfortunately perished. BOSWELL.

[497] Dr. Johnson seems to have meant the Address to the Reader with a KEY subjoined to it;
which have been prefixed to the modern editions of that play. He did not know, it appears,
that several additions were made to The Rehearsal after the first edition. MALONE. In his Life
of Dryden (Works, vii. 272) Johnson writes:--'Buckingham characterised Dryden in 1671 by the
name of Bayes in The Rehearsal.... It is said that this farce was originally intended against
Davenant, who in the first draught was characterised by the name of Bilboa.... It is said,
likewise, that Sir Robert Howard was once meant. The design was probably to ridicule the reigning
poet, whoever he might be. Much of the personal satire, to which it might owe its first reception,
is now lost or obscured.'

[498] 'The Pantheon,' wrote Horace Walpole (Letters, v. 489), a year later than this conversation,
'is still the most beautiful edifice in England.' Gibbon, a few weeks before Johnson's visit
to the Pantheon, wrote:--'In point of ennui and magnificence, the Pantheon is the wonder of
the eighteenth century and of the British empire.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, ii. 74. Evelina, in
Miss Burners novel (vol. i. Letter xxiii.) contrasts the Pantheon and Ranelagh:--'I was extremely
struck on entering the Pantheon with the beauty of the building, which greatly surpassed whatever
I could have expected or imagined. Yet it has more the appearance of a chapel than of a place
of diversion; and, though I was quite charmed with the magnificence of the room, I felt that
I could not be as gay and thoughtless there as at Ranelagh; for there is something in it which
rather inspires awe and solemnity than mirth and pleasure.' Ranelagh was at Chelsea, the Pantheon
was in Oxford-street. See ante, ii. 119, and post, Sept. 23, 1777.

[499] Her husband, Squire Godfrey Bosville, Boswell (post, Aug. 24, 1780), calls 'my Yorkshire
chief.' Their daughter was one of the young ladies whom he passes in review in his letters
to Temple. 'What say you to my marrying? I intend next autumn to visit Miss Bosville in Yorkshire;
but I fear, my lot being cast in Scotland, that beauty would not be content. She is, however,
grave; I shall see.' Letters of Boswell, p. 81. She married Sir A. Macdonald, Johnson's inhospitable
host in Sky (ante, ii. 157).

[500] In The Adventurer, No. 120, Johnson, after describing 'a gay assembly,' continues:--'The
world in its best state is nothing more than a larger assembly of beings, combining to counterfeit
happiness which they do not feel.' Works, iv. 120.

[501] 'Sir Adam Fergusson, who by a strange coincidence of chances got in to be member of Parliament
for Ayrshire in 1774, was the great-grandson of a messenger. I was talking with great indignation
that the whole (? old) families of the county should be defeated by an upstart.' Boswelliana,
p. 283.

[502] See ante, ii. 60.

[503] See ante, i. 424. Hume wrote of the judgment of Charles I. (Hist. of Eng. vii. 148):--'If
ever, on any occasion, it were laudable to conceal truth from the populace, it must be confessed
that the doctrine of resistance affords such an example; and that all speculative reasoners
ought to observe with regard to this principle the same cautious silence which the laws in
every species of government have ever prescribed to themselves.'

[504] 'All foreigners remark that the knowledge of the common people of England is greater
than that of any other vulgar. This superiority we undoubtedly owe to the rivulets of intelligence
[i. e. the newspapers] which are continually trickling among us, which every one may catch,
and of which every one partakes.' Idler, No. 7. In a later number (30), he speaks very contemptuously
of news-writers. 'In Sir Henry Wotton's jocular definition, an ambassador is said to be a man
of virtue sent abroad to tell lies for the advantage of his country. A newswriter is a man
without virtue, who writes lies at home for his own profit.'

[505] See post, April 3, 1773.

[506] Probably Mr. Elphinston. See ante, i. 210, post, April 19, 1773, and April i, 1779. Dr.
A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 493) wrote of a friend:--'He had overcome many disadvantages of his education,
for he had been sent to a Jacobite seminary of one Elphinstone at Kensington, where his body
was starved and his mind also. He returned to Edinburgh to college. He had hardly a word of
Latin, and was obliged to work hard with a private tutor.'

[507] 'In progress of time Abel Sampson, probationer of divinity, was admitted to the privileges
of a preacher.' Guy Mannering, chap. ii.

[508] In his Dictionary he defines heinous as atrocious; wicked in a high degree.

[509] Ephesians, v. 5.

[510] His second definition of whoremonger is one who converses with a fornicatress.

[511] It must not be presumed that Dr. Johnson meant to give any countenance to licentiousness,
though in the character of an Advocate he made a just and subtle distinction between occasional
and habitual transgression. BOSWELL.

[512] Erskine was born in 1750, entered the navy in 1764, the army in 1768, he matriculated
at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1776, was called to the Bar in 1778, was made a King's counsel
in 1783, and Lord Chancellor in 1806. He died in 1823. Campbell's Chancellors, vi. 368-674.

[513] Johnson had called Churchill 'a blockhead.' Ante, i. 419. 'I have remarked,' said Miss
Reynolds, 'that his dislike of anyone seldom prompted him to say much more than that the fellow
is a blockhead.' Croker's Boswell, p. 834. In like manner Goldsmith called Sterne a blockhead;
for Mr. Forster (Life of Goldsmith, i. 260) is, no doubt, right in saying that the author of
Tristram Shandy is aimed at in the following passage in The Citizen of the World (Letter, 74):--'In
England, if a bawdy blockhead thus breaks in on the community, he sets his whole fraternity
in a roar; nor can he escape even though he should fly to nobility for shelter.' That Johnson
did not think so lowly of Fielding's powers is shown by a compliment that he paid Miss Burney,
on one of the characters in Evelina. '"Oh, Mr. Smith, Mr. Smith is the man!" cried he, laughing
violently. "Harry Fielding never drew so good a character!"' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 78.

[514] Richardson wrote of Fielding (Corres, vi. l54):--'Poor Fielding! I could not help telling
his sister that I was equally surprised at and concerned for his continued lowness. Had your
brother, said I, been born in a stable, or been a runner at a sponging-house, we should have
thought him a genius, and wished he had had the advantage of a liberal education, and of being
admitted into good company.' Other passages show Richardson's dislike or jealousy of Fielding.
Thus he wrote:--'You guess that I have not read Amelia. Indeed, I have read but the first volume.
I had intended to go through with it; but I found the characters and situations so wretchedly
low and dirty that I imagined I could not be interested for any one of them.' Ib iv. 60. 'So
long as the world will receive, Mr. Fielding will write,' Ib p. 285.

[515] Hannah More wrote in 1780 (Memoirs, i. 168), 'I never saw Johnson really angry with me
but once. I alluded to some witty passage in Tom Jones; he replied, "I am shocked to hear you
quote from so vicious a book. I am sorry to hear you have read it: a confession which no modest
lady should ever make. I scarcely know a more corrupt work!" He went so far as to refuse to
Fielding the great talents which are ascribed to him, and broke out into a noble panegyric
on his competitor, Richardson; who, he said, was as superior to him in talents as in virtue;
and whom he pronounced to be the greatest genius that had shed its lustre on this path of literature.'
Yet Miss Burney in her Preface to Evelina describes herself as 'exhilarated by the wit of Fielding
and humour of Smollett.' It is strange that while Johnson thus condemned Fielding, he should
'with an ardent and liberal earnestness' have revised Smollett's epitaph. Boswell's Hebrides,
Oct. 28, 1773. Macaulay in his Speech on Copyright (Writings and Speeches, p. 615) said of
Richardson's novels:--'No writings have done more to raise the fame of English genius in foreign
countries. No writings are more deeply pathetic. No writings, those of Shakespeare excepted,
show more profound knowledge of the human heart.' Horace. Walpole (Letters, iv. 305), on the
other hand, spoke of Richardson as one 'who wrote those deplorably tedious lamentations, Clarissa
and Sir Charles Grandison, which are pictures of high life as conceived by a bookseller, and
romances as they would be spiritualised by a methodist teacher.' Lord Chesterfield says of
Sir Charles Grandison, that 'it is too long, and there is too much mere talk in it. Whenever
he goes ultra crepidam into high life, he grossly mistakes the modes; but to do him justice
he never mistakes nature, and he has surely great knowledge and skill both in painting and
in interesting the heart.' Ib note. See ante, ii. 48.

[516] Amelia he read through without stopping. Post, April 12, 1776. Shenstone (Works, iii.
70) writes of 'the tedious character of Parson Adams,' and calls the book 'a very mean performance;
of which the greater part is unnatural and unhumorous.'

[517] Johnson wrote to Richardson of Clarissa, 'though the story is long, every letter is short.'
He begged him to add an index rerum, 'for Clarissa is not a performance to be read with eagerness,
and laid aside for ever; but will be occasionally consulted by the busy, the aged, and the
studious.' Richardson's Corres, v. 281.

[518] 'Our immortal Fielding was of the younger branch of the Earls of Denbigh, who draw their
origin from the Counts of Habsburg, the lineal descendants of Eltrico, in the seventh century
Duke of Alsace. Far different have been the fortunes of the English and German divisions of
the family of Habsburg: the former, the knights and sheriffs of Leicestershire, have slowly
risen to the dignity of a peerage: the latter, the Emperors of Germany and Kings of Spain,
have threatened the liberty of the old, and invaded the treasures of the new world. Works,
i. 4. Richardson, five years after Tom Jones was published, wrote (Corres, v. 275):--'Its run
is over, even with us. Is it true that France had virtue enough to refuse a license for such
a profligate performance?'

[519] Mr. Samuel Paterson, eminent for his knowledge of books. BOSWELL. In the first two editions
this note does not appear, but Mr. Paterson is described as 'the auctioneer.' See post, Aug.
3, 1776.

[520] Mr. Paterson, in a pamphlet, produced some evidence to shew that his work was written
before Sterne's Sentimental Journey appeared. BOSWELL.

[521] Coryat's Crudities hastily gobled up in five Moneths Trauells in France, Sauoy, Italy,
etc. London, 1611.

[522] 'Lord Erskine,' says Mr. Croker, 'was fond of this anecdote. He told it to me the first
time that I was in his company, and often repeated it, boasting that he had been a sailor,
a soldier, a lawyer, and a parson.'

[523] 185,000. 2 Kings, xix. 35.

[524] Lord Chatham wrote on Oct. 12, 1766, to Lord Shelburne that he 'had extremely at heart
to obtain this post for Lord Cardross, a young nobleman of great talents, learning, and accomplishments,
and son of the Earl of Buchan, an intimate friend of Lord Chatham, from the time they were
students together at Utrecht.' Chatham Corres. iii. 106. Horace Walpole wrote on Oct. 26, 'Sir
James Gray goes to Madrid. The embassy has been sadly hawked about it.' Walpole's Letters,
v. 22. 'Sir James Gray's father was first a box-keeper, and then footman to James II.' Ib ii. 366.

[525] See ante, ii. 134, for Johnson's attack on Lord Chatham's 'feudal gabble.'

[526] In Boswell's Hebrides, on Aug. 25, 1773, Johnson makes much the same answer to a like
statement by Boswell. See post, March 21, 1783.

[527] See ante, i. 343, 405, and post, April 10, 1772.

[528] 'I cannot,' wrote John Wesley, (Journal, iv. 74), 'give up to all Deists in Great Britain
the existence of witchcraft, till I give up the credit of all history, sacred and profane.
And at the present time, I have not only as strong but stronger proofs of this from eye and
ear witnesses than I have of murder; so that I cannot rationally doubt of one any more the
than the other.'

[529] See this curious question treated by him with most acute ability, Journal of a Tour to
the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 33. [Aug. 16.] BOSWELL. Johnson, in his Observations on Macbeth
(Works, v. 55-7), shews his utter disbelief in witchcraft. 'These phantoms,' he writes, 'have
indeed appeared more frequently in proportion as the darkness of ignorance has been more gross;
but it cannot be shewn that the brightest gleams of knowledge have at any time been sufficient
to drive them out of the world.' He describes the spread of the belief in them in the middle
ages, and adds:--'The reformation did not immediately arrive at its meridian, and though day
was gradually increasing upon us, the goblins of witchcraft still continued to hover in the
twilight.' See post, April 8, 1779 and 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[530] The passage to which Johnson alluded is to be found (I conjecture) in the Phoenissae,
I. 1120. J. BOSWELL, JUN.

[531] Boswell (Letters, p. 324), on June 21, 1790, described to Temple the insults of that
'brutal fellow,' Lord Lonsdale, and continued:--'In my fretfulness I used such expressions
as irritated him almost to fury, so that he used such expressions towards me that I should
have, according to the irrational laws of honour sanctioned by the world, been under the necessity
of risking my life, had not an explanation taken place.' Boswell's eldest son, Sir Alexander
Boswell, lost his life in a duel.

[532] Johnson might have quoted the lieutenant in Tom Jones, Book vii. chap. 13. 'My dear boy,
be a good Christian as long as you live: but be a man of honour too, and never put up an affront;
not all the books, nor all the parsons in the world, shall ever persuade me to that. I love
my religion very well, but I love my honour more. There must be some mistake in the wording
of the text, or in the translation, or in the understanding it, or somewhere or other. But
however that be, a man must run the risk, for he must preserve his honour.' See post, April
19, 1773, and April 20, 1783, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 19, 1773.

[533] Oglethorpe was born in 1698. In 1714 he entered the army. Prince Eugene's campaigns against
the Turks in which Oglethorpe served were in 1716-17. Rose's Biog. Dict. vii. 266 and x. 381.
He was not therefore quite so young as Boswell thought.

[534] In the first two editions Bender. Belgrade was taken by Eugene in 1717.

[535] 'Idem velle atque idem nolle ea demum firma amicitia est.' Sallust, Catilina, xx. 4.

[536] More than one conjecture has been hazarded as to the passage to which Johnson referred.
I believe that he was thinking of the lines--

'Et variis albae junguntur saepe columbae;
 Et niger a viridi turtur amatur ave.'

Sappho to Phaon, line 37.

'Turtles and doves of differing hues unite, And glossy jet is paired with shining white.' (POPE.)

Goldsmith had said that people to live in friendship together must have the same likings and
aversions. Johnson thereupon calls to mind Sappho, who had shown that there could be love where
there was little likeness.

[537] It was not published till after Goldsmith's death. It is in the list of new books in
the Gent. Mag. for Aug. 1774, p. 378. See post, under June 22, 1776, the note on Goldsmith's
epitaph.

[538] 'Upon my opening the door the young women broke off their discourse, but my landlady's
daughters telling them that it was nobody but the Gentleman (for that is the name that I go
by in the neighbourhood as well as in the family), they went on without minding me.' Spectator,
No. 12.

[539] The author also of the Ballad of Cumnor Hall. See Scott's Introduction to Kenilworth.
Bishop Horne says that 'Mickle inserted in the Lusiad an angry note against Garrick, who, as
he thought, had used him ill by rejecting a tragedy of his.' Shortly afterwards, he saw Garrick
act for the first time. The play was Lear. 'During the first three acts he said not a word.
In a fine passage of the fourth he fetched a deep sigh, and turning to a friend, "I wish,"
said he, "the note was out of my book."' Horne's Essays, ed. 1808, p. 38. See post, under Dec.
24, 1783, and Garrick's letter in Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 23,1773.

[540] The farmer's son told Mr. Prior that 'he had felt much reluctance in erasing during necessary
repairs these memorials.' Prior's Goldsmith, ii. 335.

[541] See ante, ii. 178.

[542] Here was a blank, which may be filled up thus:--'was told by an apparition;'--the writer
being probably uncertain whether he was asleep or awake, when his mind was impressed with the
solemn presentiment with which the fact afterwards happened so wonderfully to correspond. BOSWELL.
'Lord Hardinge, when Secretary at War,' writes Mr. Croker, 'informed me, that it appears that
Colonel Sir Thomas Prendergast, of the twenty-second foot, was killed at Malplaquet, Aug. 31,
1709; but no trace can be found of any Colonel Cecil in the army at that period. Colonel W.
Cecil, who was sent to the Tower in 1744, could hardly have been, in 1709, of the age and rank
which Oglethorpe's anecdote seems to imply.' Prendergast, or Prendergrass, in the year 1696,
informed the government of the plot to assassinate William III., in which Friend was one of
the leaders. Macaulay (Hist. of Eng. chap. 21), calls Prendergrass 'a Roman Catholic gentleman
of known courage and honour.' Swift, attacking Prendergast's son, attacks Prendergast himself:--

 'What! thou the spawn of him who shamed our isle,
 Traitor, assassin, and informer vile.'

Swift's Works, xi. 319.

[543] Locke says:--'When once it comes to be a trial of skill, contest for mastery betwixt
you and your child, you must be sure to carry it, whatever blows it costs, if a nod or words
will not prevail.' He continues:--'A prudent and kind mother of my acquaintance was, on such
an occasion, forced to whip her little daughter, at her first coming home from nurse, eight
times successively the same morning, before she could master her stubbornness, and obtain a
compliance in a very easy and indifferent matter.... As this was the first time, so I think
it was the last, too, she ever struck her.' Locke on Education (ed. 1710), p. 96.

[544] Andrew Crosbie, arguing for the schoolmaster, had said:--'Supposing it true that the
respondent had been provoked to use a little more severity than he wished to do, it might well
be justified on account of the ferocious and rebellious behaviour of his scholars, some of
whom cursed and swore at him, and even went so far as to wrestle with him, in which case he
was under a necessity of subduing them as he best could.' Scotch Appeal Cases, xvii. p. 214.
The judgment of the House of Lords is given in Paton's Reports of Cases upon Appeal from Scotland,
ii. 277, as follows:--'A schoolmaster, appointed by the Magistrates and Town Council of Cambelton,
without any mention being made as to whether his office was for life or at pleasure: Held that
it was a public office, and that he was liable to be dismissed for a just and reasonable cause,
and that acts of cruel chastisement of the boys were a justifiable cause for his dismissal;
reversing the judgment of the Court of Session.... The proof led before his dismission went
to shew that scarce a day passed without some of the scholars coming home with their heads
cut, and their bodies discoloured. He beat his pupils with wooden squares, and sometimes with
his fists, and used his feet by kicking them, and dragged them by the hair of the head. He
had also entered into the trade of cattle grazing and farming--dealt in black cattle--in the
shipping business--and in herring fishing.'

[545] These six Methodists were in 1768 expelled St. Edmund's Hall, by the Vice-Chancellor,
acting as 'visitor.' Nominally they were expelled for their ignorance; in reality for their
active Methodism. That they were 'mighty ignorant fellows' was shown, but ignorance was tolerated
at Oxford. One of their number confessed his ignorance, and declined all examination. But 'as
he was represented to be a man of fortune, and declared that he was not designed for holy orders,
the Vice-Chancellor did not think fit to remove him for this reason only, though he was supposed
to be one of "the righteous over-much."' Dr. Johnson: His Friends and his Critics, pp. 51-57.
Horace Walpole, Whig though he was, thought as Johnson. 'Oxford,' he wrote (Letters v. 97),
'has begun with these rascals, and I hope Cambridge will wake.'

[546] Much such an expulsion as this Johnson had justified in his Life of Cheynel (Works, vi.
415). 'A temper of this kind,' he wrote, 'is generally inconvenient and offensive in any society,
but in a place of education is least to be tolerated ... He may be justly driven from a society,
by which he thinks himself too wise to be governed, and in which he is too young to teach,
and too opinionative to learn.'

[547] Johnson wrote far otherwise of the indulgence shown to Edmund Smith, the poet. 'The indecency
and licentiousness of his behaviour drew upon him, Dec. 24, 1694, while he was yet only bachelor,
a publick admonition, entered upon record, in order to his expulsion. Of this reproof the effect
is not known. He was probably less notorious. At Oxford, as we all know, much will be forgiven
to literary merit.... Of his lampoon upon Dean Aldrich, [Smith was a Christ-Church man], I
once heard a single line too gross to be repeated. But he was still a genius and a scholar,
and Oxford was unwilling to lose him; he was endured with all his pranks and his vices two
years longer; but on Dec. 20, 1705, at the instance of all the Canons, the sentence declared
five years before was put in execution. The execution was, I believe, silent and tender.' Works,
vii. 373-4.

[548] See post, p. 193, note i.

[549] 'Our bottle-conversation,' wrote Addison, 'is infected with party-lying.' The Spectator,
No. 507.

[550] Mrs. Piozzi, in her Anecdotes, p. 261, has given an erroneous account of this incident,
as of many others. She pretends to relate it from recollection, as if she herself had been
present; when the fact is that it was communicated to her by me. She has represented it as
a personality, and the true point has escaped her. BOSWELL. She tells the story against Boswell.
'I fancy Mr. B---- has not forgotten,' she writes.

[551] See post, April 11, 1776.

[552] Johnson, in his Dictionary, defines manufacturer as a workman; an artificer.

[553] Johnson had no fear of popular education. In his attack on Jenyns's Enquiry (ante, i.
315), he wrote (Works, vi. 56):--'Though it should be granted that those who are born to poverty
and drudgery should not be deprived by an improper education of the opiate of ignorance, even
this concession will not be of much use to direct our practice, unless it be determined, who
are those that are born to poverty. To entail irreversible poverty upon generation after generation,
only because the ancestor happened to be poor, is in itself cruel, if not unjust.... I am always
afraid of determining on the side of envy or cruelty. The privileges of education may sometimes
be improperly bestowed, but I shall always fear to withhold them, lest I should be yielding
to the suggestions of pride, while I persuade myself that I am following the maxims of policy.'
In The Idler, No. 26, he attacked those who 'hold it little less than criminal to teach poor
girls to read and write,' and who say that 'they who are born to poverty are born to ignorance,
and will work the harder the less they know.'

[554] Tacitus's Agricola, ch. xii, was no doubt quoted in reference to the shortness of the
northern winter day.

[555] It is remarkable, that Lord Monboddo, whom, on account of his resembling Dr. Johnson
in some particulars, Foote called an Elzevir edition of him, has, by coincidence, made the
very same remark. Origin and Progress of Language, vol. iii. 2nd ed. p. 219. BOSWELL. See Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 21, note.

[556] On Saturday night Johnson recorded:--'I resolved last Easter to read within the year
the whole Bible, a very great part of which I had never looked upon. I read the Greek Testament
without construing, and this day concluded the Apocalypse.... Easter Day. After twelve at night.
The day is now begun on which I hope to begin a new course, [Greek: hosper aph husplaeggon],
[as if from the starting-place.]

My hopes are from this time-- To rise early, To waste less time, To appropriate something to
charity.'

A week later he recorded:--'It is a comfort to me that at last, in my sixty-third year, I have
attained to know even thus hastily, confusedly, and imperfectly, what my Bible contains. I
have never yet read the Apocrypha. I have sometimes looked into the Maccabees, and read a chapter
containing the question, Which is the strongest? I think, in Esdras' [I Esdras, ch. iii. v.
10]. Pr. and Med. pp. 112-118.

[557] Pr. and Med. p. iii. BOSWELL.

[558] 'Perfect through sufferings.' Hebrews, ii. 10.

[559] 'I was always so incapable of learning mathematics,' wrote Horace Walpole (Letters, ix.
467), 'that I could not even get by heart the multiplication table, as blind Professor Sanderson
honestly told me, above three-score years ago, when I went to his lectures at Cambridge. After
the first fortnight he said to me, "Young man, it would be cheating you to take your money;
for you never can learn what I am trying to teach you." I was exceedingly mortified, and cried;
for, being a Prime Minister's son, I had firmly believed all the flattery with which I had
been assured that my parts were capable of anything.'

[560] Reynolds said:--'Out of the great number of critics in this metropolis who all pretend
to knowledge in pictures, the greater part must be mere pretenders only. Taste does not come
by chance; it is a long and laborious task to acquire it.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 264.

[561] 'Jemmy Boswell,' wrote John Scott (afterwards Lord Eldon), 'called upon me, desiring
to know what would be my definition of taste. I told him I must decline defining it, because
I knew he would publish it. He continued his importunities in frequent calls, and in one complained
much that I would not give him it, as he had that morning got Henry Dundas's, Sir A. Macdonald's,
and J. Anstruther's definitions. "Well, then," I said, "Boswell, we must have an end of this.
Taste, according to my definition, is the judgment which Dundas, Macdonald, Anstruther, and
you manifested when you determined to quit Scotland and to come into the south. You may publish
this if you please."' Twiss's Eldon, i. 303. See post, April 10, 1778, note for Lord Eldon.

[562] Johnson (Works, viii. 220) says that 'Swift's delight was in simplicity. That he has
in his works no metaphor, as has been said, is not true; but his few metaphors seem to be received
rather by necessity than choice. He studied purity.... His style was well suited to his thoughts....
He pays no court to the passions; he excites neither surprise nor admiration; he always understands
himself, and his reader always understands him; the peruser of Swift wants little previous
knowledge; it will be sufficient that he is acquainted with common words and common things;
... [his style] instructs, but it does not persuade.' Hume describes Swift's style as one which
he 'can approve, but surely can never admire. It has no harmony, no eloquence, no ornament,
and not much correctness, whatever the English may imagine.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 413.

[563] Johnson's Works, v. 146.

[564] Dr. Warton wrote on Jan. 22, 1766:--'Garrick is entirely off from Johnson, and cannot,
he says, forgive him his insinuating that he withheld his old editions, which always were open
to him; nor, I suppose, his never mentioning him in all his works.' Wooll's Warton, p. 313.
Beauclerk wrote to Lord Charlemont in 1773:--'If you do not come here, I will bring all the
club over to Ireland to live with you, and that will drive you here in your own defence, Johnson
shall spoil your books, Goldsmith pull your flowers, and Boswell talk to you: stay then if
you can.' Charlemont's Life, i. 347. Yet Garrick had lent Johnson some books, for Johnson wrote
to him on Oct. 10, 1766:--'I return you thanks for the present of the Dictionary, and will
take care to return you [qu. your] other books.' Garrick Corres, i. 245. Steevens, who had
edited Johnson's Shakespeare, wrote to Garrick:--'I have taken the liberty to introduce your
name, because I have found no reason to say that the possessors of the old quartos were not
sufficiently communicative.' Ib p. 501. Mme. D'Arblay describes how 'Garrick, giving a thundering
stamp on some mark on the carpet that struck his eye--not with passion or displeasure, but
merely as if from singularity--took off Dr. Johnson's voice in a short dialogue with himself
that had passed the preceding week. "David! Will you lend me your Petrarca?" "Y-e-s, Sir!"
"David! you sigh?" "Sir--you shall have it certainly." "Accordingly," Mr. Garrick continued,
"the book, stupendously bound, I sent to him that very evening. But scarcely had he taken it
in his hands, when, as Boswell tells me, he poured forth a Greek ejaculation and a couplet
or two from Horace, and then in one of those fits of enthusiasm which always seem to require
that he should spread his arms aloft, he suddenly pounces my poor Petrarca over his head upon
the floor. And then, standing for several minutes lost in abstraction, he forgot probably that
he had ever seen it."' Dr. Burney's Memoirs, i. 352. See post, under Aug. 12, 1784.

[565] The gentleman most likely is Boswell (ante, ii. 14, note 1). I suspect that this anecdote
belongs to ante, April 14, when 'Johnson was not in the most genial humour.' Boswell, while
showing that Mrs. Piozzi misrepresented an incident of that evening 'as a personality,' would
be afraid of weakening his case by letting it be seen that Johnson on that occasion was very
personal. Since writing this I have noticed that Dr. T. Campbell records in his Diary, p. 53,
that on April 1, 1775, he was dining at Mr. Thrale's with Boswell, when many of Johnson's 'bon-mots
were retailed. Boswell arguing in favour of a cheerful glass, adduced the maxim in vino veritas.
"Well," says Johnson, "and what then, unless a man has lived a lie." Boswell then urged that
it made a man forget all his cares. "That to be sure," says Johnson, "might be of use, if a
man sat by such a person as you."' Campbell's account confirms what Boswell asserts (ante,
ii. 188) that Mrs. Piozzi had the anecdote from him.

[566] No. 150. The quotation is from Francis Osborne's Advice to a Son. Swift, in The Tatler,
No. 230, ranks Osborne with some other authors, who 'being men of the Court, and affecting
the phrases then in fashion, are often either not to be understood, or appear perfectly ridiculous.'

[567] See post, May 13, 1778, and June 30, 1784.

[568] Mrs. Piozzi, to whom I told this anecdote, has related it, as if the gentleman had given
'the natural history of the mouse.' Anec. p. 191. BOSWELL. The gentleman was very likely Dr.
Vansittart, who is mentioned just before. (See ante, i. 348, note 1.) Mrs. Thrale, in 1773,
wrote to Johnson of 'the man that saw the mouse.' Piozzi Letters, i. 186. From Johnson's answer
(ib. p. 197) it seems that she meant Vansittart. Mr. Croker says 'this proves that Johnson
himself sanctioned Mrs. Piozzi's version of the story--mouse versus flea.' Mr. Croker has an
odd notion of what constitutes both a proof and a sanction.

[569] Lord Shelburne says that 'William Murray [Lord Mansfield] was sixteen years of age when
he came out of Scotland, and spoke such broad Scotch that he stands entered in the University
books at Oxford as born as Bath, the Vice-Chancellor mistaking Bath for Perth.' Fitzmaurice's
Shelburne, i. 87.

[570] The asterisks seem to show that Beattie and Robertson are meant. This is rendered more
probable from the fact that the last paragraph is about Scotchmen.

[571] See ante, ii. 51.

[572] Boswell's friend was very likely his brother David, who had long resided in Valencia.
In that case, Johnson came round to Boswell's opinion, for he wrote, 'he will find Scotland
but a sorry place after twelve years' residence in a happier climate;' post, April 29, 1780.

[573] See ante, i.443, note 2.

[574] Wilson against Smith and Armour. BOSWELL.

[575] Lord Kames, in his Historical Law Tracts. BOSWELL.

[576] 'Covin. A deceitful agreement between two or more to the hurt of another.' Johnson's
Dictionary.

[577] Lord Kames (Sketches of the History of Man, iv. 168) says:--'The undisciplined manners
of our forefathers in Scotland made a law necessary, that whoever intermeddled irregularly
with the goods of a deceased person should be subjected to pay all his debts, however extensive.
A due submission to legal authority has in effect abrogated that severe law, and it is now
[1774] scarce ever heard of.' Scott introduces Lord Kames in Redgauntlet, at the end of chap.
I of the Narrative:--'"What's the matter with the auld bitch next?" said an acute metaphysical
judge, though somewhat coarse in his manners, aside to his brethren.' In Boswell's poem The
Court of Session Garland, where the Scotch judges each give judgment, we read:--

'Alemore the judgment as illegal blames, "Tis equity, you bitch," replies my Lord Kames.'

Chambers's Traditions of Edinburgh, ii. 161. Mr. Chambers adds (p. 171) that when Kames retired
from the Bench, 'after addressing his brethren in a solemn speech, in going out at the door
of the court room, he turned about, and casting them a last look, cried, in his usual familiar
tone, "Fare ye a' weel, ye bitches."'

[578] At this time there were no civil juries in Scotland. 'But this was made up for, to a
certain extent, by the Supreme Court, consisting of no fewer than fifteen judges; who formed
a sort of judicial jury, and were dealt with as such. The great mass of the business was carried
on by writing.' Cockbarn's Jeffery, i. 87. See post, Jan. 19, 1775, note.

[579] In like manner, he had discovered the Life of Cheynel to be Johnson's. Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 17, 1774.

[580] The Essay on Truth, published in May, 1770. Beattie wrote on Sept. 30, 1772:--'The fourth
edition of my Essay is now in the press.' Forbes's Beattie, ed. 1824, p. 134. Three translations--French,
Dutch, and German--had, it seems, already appeared. Ib p. 121. 'Mr. Johnson made Goldsmith
a comical answer one day, when seeming to repine at the success of Beattie's Essay on Truth.
"Here's such a stir," said he, "about a fellow that has written one book, and I have written
many." "Ah, Doctor," says he, "there go two and forty sixpences you know to one guinea."' Piozzi's
Anec. p. 179. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct 1, 1773.

[581] See ante, ii. 144, 183.

[582] On the same day he wrote to Dr. Taylor:--'Your uneasiness at the misfortunes of your
relations, I comprehend perhaps too well. It was an irresistible obtrusion of a disagreeable
image, which you always wished away, but could not dismiss, an incessant persecution of a troublesome
thought, neither to be pacified nor ejected. Such has of late been the state of my own mind.
I had formerly great command of my attention, and what I did not like could forbear to think
on. But of this power, which is of the highest importance to the tranquillity of life, I have
been so much exhausted, that I do not go into a company towards night, in which i foresee anything
disagreeable, nor enquire after anything to which I am not indifferent, lest something, which
I know to be nothing, should fasten upon my imagination, and hinder me from sleep.' Notes and
Queries, 6th S., v. 383. On Oct. 6 he wrote to Dr. Taylor:--'I am now within a few hours of
being able to send the whole Dictionary to the press [ante, ii. 155], and though I often went
sluggishly to the work, I am not much delighted at the completion. My purpose is to come down
to Lichfield next week.' Ib p. 422. He stayed some weeks there and in Ashbourne. Piozzi Letters,
i. 55-70.

[583] See ante, ii. 141, note 3.

[584] 'While of myself I yet may think, while breath my body sways.' Morris's Aeneids, iv. 336.

[585] It should seem that this dictionary work was not unpleasant to Johnson; for Stockdale
records (Memoirs, ii. 179) that about 1774, having told him that he had declined to edit a
new edition of Chambers's Dictionary of the Arts and Sciences, 'Johnson replied that if I would
not undertake, he would. I expressed my astonishment that, in his easy circumstances, he should
think of preparing a new edition of a tedious, scientific dictionary. "Sir," said he, "I like
that muddling work." He allowed some time to go by, during which another editor was found--Dr.
Rees. Immediately after this intelligence he called on me, and his first words were:--"It is
gone, Sir."'

[586] He, however, wrote, or partly wrote, an Epitaph on Mrs. Bell, wife of his friend John
Bell, Esq., brother of the Reverend Dr. Bell, Prebendary of Westminster, which is printed in
his Works [i. 151]. It is in English prose, and has so little of his manner, that I did not
believe he had any hand in it, till I was satisfied of the fact by the authority of Mr. Bell.
BOSWELL. 'The epitaph is to be seen in the parish church of Watford.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 471.

[587] See ante, i. 187. Mme. D'Arblay (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, i. 271) says that this year Goldsmith
projected a Dictionary of Arts and Sciences, in which Johnson was to take the department of
ethics, and that Dr. Burney finished the article Musician. The scheme came to nothing.

[588] We may doubt Steevens's taste. Garrick 'produced Hamlet with alterations, rescuing,'
as he said, 'that noble play from all the rubbish of the fifth act' (ante, ii. 85, note 7.)
Steevens wrote to Garrick:--'I expect great pleasure from the perusal of your altered Hamlet.
It is a circumstance in favour of the poet which I have long been wishing for. You had better
throw what remains of the piece into a farce, to appear immediately afterwards. No foreigner
who should happen to be present at the exhibition, would ever believe it was formed out of
the loppings and excrescences of the tragedy itself. You may entitle it The Grave-Diggers;
with the pleasant Humours of Osric, the Danish Macaroni.' Garrick Corres. i. 451.

[589] A line of an epigram in the Life of Virgil, ascribed to Donatus.

[590] Given by a lady at Edinburgh. BOSWELL.

[591] There had been masquerades in Scotland; but not for a very long time. BOSWELL. 'Johnson,'
as Mr. Croker observes, 'had no doubt seen an account of the masquerade in the Gent. Mag. for
January,' p. 43. It is stated there that 'it was the first masquerade ever seen in Scotland.'
Boswell appeared as a dumb Conjurer.

[592] Mrs. Thrale recorded in 1776, after her quarrel with Baretti:--'I had occasion to talk
of him with Tom Davies, who spoke with horror of his ferocious temper; "and yet," says I, "there
is great sensibility about Baretti. I have seen tears often stand in his eyes." "Indeed," replies
Davies, "I should like to have seen that sight vastly, when--even butchers weep."' Hayward's
Piozzi, ii. 340. Davies said of Goldsmith:--'He least of all mankind approved Baretti's conversation;
he considered him as an insolent, overbearing foreigner.' Davies, in the same passage, speaks
of Baretti as 'this unhappy Italian.' Davies's Garrick, ii. 168. As this was published in Baretti's
life-time, the man could scarcely have been so ferocious as he was described.

[593] 'There were but a few days left before the comedy was to be acted, and no name had been
found for it. "We are all in labour," says Johnson, whose labour of kindness had been untiring
throughout, "for a name to Goldy's play." [See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14, 1773.] What now
stands as the second title, The Mistakes of a Night, was originally the only one; but it was
thought undignified for a comedy. The Old House a New Inn was suggested in place of it, but
dismissed as awkward. Sir Joshua offered a much better name to Goldsmith, saying, "You ought
to call it The Belle's Stratagem, and if you do not I will damn it." When Goldsmith, in whose
ear perhaps a line of Dryden's lingered, hit upon She Stoops to Conquer.' Forster's Goldsmith,
ii. 337, and Northcote's Reynolds, i. 285. Mr. Forster quotes the line of Dryden as

'But kneels to conquer, and but stoops to rise.'

In Lord Chesterfield's Letters, iii. 131, the line is given,

'But stoops to conquer, and but kneels to rise.'

[594] This gentleman, who now resides in America in a publick character of considerable dignity,
desired that his name might not be transcribed at full length. BOSWELL.

[595] Now Doctor White, and Bishop of the Episcopal Church in Pennsylvania. During his first
visit to England in 1771, as a candidate for holy orders, he was several times in company with
Dr. Johnson, who expressed a wish to see the edition of his Rasselas, which Dr. White told
him had been printed in America. Dr. White, on his return, immediately sent him a copy. BOSWELL.

[596] Horace. Odes, iii. I. 34.

[597] See post, Oct. 12, 1779.

[598] Malone had the following from Baretti: 'Baretti made a translation of Rasselas into French.
He never, however, could satisfy himself with the translation of the first sentence, which
is uncommonly lofty. Mentioning this to Johnson, the latter said, after thinking two or three
minutes, "Well, take up the pen, and if you can understand my pronunciation, I will see what
I can do." He then dictated the sentence to the translator, which proved admirable, and was
immediately adopted.' Prior's Malone, p. 161. Baretti, in a MS. note on his copy of Piozzi
Letters, i. 225, says:--'Johnson never wrote to me French, but when he translated for me the
first paragraph of his Rasselas.' That Johnson's French was faulty, is shown by his letters
in that language. Ante, ii. 82, and post, under Nov. 12, 1775.

[599] It has been translated into Bengalee, Hungarian, Polish, Modern Greek, and Spanish, besides
the languages mentioned by Johnson. Dr. J. Macaulay's Bibliography of Rasselas. It reached
its fifth edition by 1761. A Bookseller of the Last Century, p. 243. In the same book (p. 19)
it is mentioned that 'a sixteenth share in The Rambler was sold for L22 2s. 6d.'

[600] A motion in the House of Commons for a committee to consider of the subscription to the
Thirty nine Articles had, on Feb. 23 of this year, been rejected by 159 to 67. Parl. Hist.
xvii. 742-758. A bill for the relief of Protestant Dissenters that passed the House of Commons
by 65 to 14 on March 25, was rejected in the House of Lords by 86 to 28 on April 2. Ib p. 790.

[601] See post, April 25, 1778, where Johnson says that 'Colman [the manager] was prevailed
on at last by much solicitation, nay, a kind of force, to bring it on.' Mr. Forster (Life of
Goldsmith, ii. 334-6) writes:--'The actors and actresses had taken their tone from the manager.
Gentleman Smith threw up Voting Marlow; Woodward refused Tony Lumpkin; Mrs. Abington declined
Miss Hardcastle [in The Athenaeum, No. 3041, it is pointed out that Mrs. Abington was not one
of Colman's Company]; and, in the teeth of his own misgivings, Colman could not contest with
theirs. He would not suffer a new scene to be painted for the play, he refused to furnish even
a new dress, and was careful to spread his forebodings as widely as he could.' The play met
with the greatest success. 'There was a new play by Dr. Goldsmith last night, which succeeded
prodigiously,' wrote Horace Valpole (Letters, v. 452). The laugh was turned against the doubting
manager. Ten days after the play had been brought out, Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'C----[Colman]
is so distressed with abuse about his play, that he has solicited Goldsmith to take him off
the rack of the newspapers.' Piozzi Letters, i. 80. See post, just before June 22, 1784, for
Mr. Steevens's account.

[602] It was anything but an apology, unless apology is used in its old meaning of defence.

[603] Nine days after She Stoops to Conquer was brought out, a vile libel, written, it is believed,
by Kenrick (ante i. 297), was published by Evans in The London Packet. The libeller dragged
in one of the Miss Hornecks, 'the Jessamy Bride' of Goldsmith's verse. Goldsmith, believing
Evans had written the libel, struck him with his cane. The blow was returned, for Evans was
a strong man. 'He indicted Goldsmith for the assault, but consented to a compromise on his
paying fifty pounds to a Welsh charity. The papers abused the poet, and steadily turned aside
from the real point in issue. At last he stated it himself, in an Address to the Public, in
the Daily Advertiser of March 31.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 347-351. The libel is given in
Goldsmith's Misc. Works (1801), i. 103.

[604] 'Your paper,' I suppose, because the Chronicle was taken in at Bolt Court. Ante, ii. 103.

[605] See Forster's Goldsmith, i. 265, for a possible explanation of this sarcasm.

[606] Horace Walpole is violent against Dalrymple and the King. 'What must,' he says, 'be the
designs of this reign when George III. encourages a Jacobite wretch to hunt in France for materials
for blackening the heroes who withstood the enemies of Protestantism and liberty.' Journal
of the Reign of George III, i. 286.

[607] Mr. Hallam pointed out to Mr. Croker that Johnson was speaking of Dalrymple's description
of the parting of Lord and Lady Russell:--'With a deep and noble silence; with a long and fixed
look, in which respect and affection unmingled with passion were expressed, Lord and Lady Russell
parted for ever--he great in this last act of his life, but she greater.' Dalrymple's Memoirs,
i. 31. See post, April 30, 1773, for the foppery of Dalrymple; and Boswell's Hebrides, near
the end, for Johnson's imitation of Dalrymple's style.

[608] See ante, i. 334.

[609] See ante, ii. 170.

[610] Horace Walpole says:--'It was not Chesterfield's fault if he had not wit; nothing exceeded
his efforts in that point; and though they were far from producing the wit, they at least amply
yielded the applause he aimed at.' Memoirs of the Reign of George II, i. 51.

[611] A curious account of Tyrawley is given in Walpole's Reign of George II, iii. 108. He
had been Ambassador at Lisbon, and he 'even affected not to know where the House of Commons
was.' Walpole says (Letters, i. 215, note) that 'Pope has mentioned his and another ambassador's
seraglios in one of his Imitations of Horace.' He refers to the lines in the Imitations, i.
6. 120:--

'Go live with Chartres, in each vice outdo
 K----l's lewd cargo, or Ty----y's crew.'

Kinnoul and Tyrawley, says Walpole, are meant.

[612] According to Chalmers, who himself has performed this task, Dr. Percy was the first of
these gentlemen, and Dr. John Calder the second. CROKER.

[613] Sir Andrew Freeport, after giving money to some importunate beggars, says:--'I ought
to give to an hospital of invalids, to recover as many useful subjects as I can, but I shall
bestow none of my bounties upon an almshouse of idle people; and for the same reason I should
not think it a reproach to me if I had withheld my charity from those common beggars.' The
Spectator, No. 232. This paper is not by Addison. In No. 549, which is by Addison, Sir Andrew
is made to found 'an almshouse for a dozen superannuated husbandmen.' I have before (ii. 119)
contrasted the opinions of Johnson and Fielding as to almsgiving. A more curious contrast is
afforded by the following passage in Tom Jones, book i. chap. iii:--'I have told my reader
that Mr. Allworthy inherited a large fortune, that he had a good heart, and no family. Hence,
doubtless, it will be concluded by many that he lived like an honest man, owed no one a shilling,
took nothing but what was his own, kept a good house, entertained his neighbours with a hearty
welcome at his table, and was charitable to the poor, i.e. to those who had rather beg than
work, by giving them the offals from it; that he died immensely rich, and built an hospital.'

[614] Boswell says (Hebrides, Aug. 26, 1773):--'His recitation was grand and affecting, and,
as Sir Joshua Reynolds has observed to me, had no more tone than it should have.' Mrs. Piozzi
(Anec. p. 302) writes:--'His manner of repeating deserves to be described, though at the same
time it defeats all power of description; but whoever once heard him repeat an ode of Horace
would be long before they could endure to hear it repeated by another.' See ante, ii. 92, note 4.

[615] 'Some of the old legendary stories put in verse by modern writers provoked him to caricature
them thus one day at Streatham:--

"The tender infant, meek and mild, Fell down upon the stone; The nurse took up the squealing
child, But still the child squeal'd on."

'A famous ballad also beginning--Rio verde, Rio verde, when I commended the translation of
it, he said he could do it better himself, as thus:--

"Glassy water, glassy water, Down whose current clear and strong, Chiefs confused in mutual
slaughter, Moor and Christian roll along."

"But, Sir," said I, "this is not ridiculous at all." "Why no," replied he, "why should I always
write ridiculously?"' Piozzi's Anec. p. 65. See ante, ii. 136, note 4. Neither Boswell nor
Mrs. Piozzi mentions Percy by name as the subject of Johnson's ridicule.

[616] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 4, 1773.

[617] Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 88) said that 'Fox considered Burnet's style to be perfect.'

[618] Johnson (Works, vii. 96) quotes; 'Dalrymple's observation, who says "that whenever Burnet's
narrations are examined, he appears to be mistaken."' Lord Bolingbroke (Works, iv. 151) wrote
of party pamphlets and histories:--'Read them with suspicion, for they deserve to be suspected;
pay no regard to the epithets given, nor to the judgments passed; neglect all declamation,
weigh the reasoning, and advert to fact. With such precautions, even Burnet's history may be
of some use.' Horace Walpole, noticing an attack on Burnet, says (Letters, vi. 487):--'It shows
his enemies are not angry at his telling falsehoods, but the truth ... I will tell you what
was said of his History by one whose testimony you yourself will not dispute. That confessor
said, "Damn him, he has told a great deal of truth, but where the devil did he learn it?" This
was St. Atterbury's testimony.'

[619] The cross-buns were for Boswell and Levet. Johnson recorded (Pr. and Med. p. 121):--'On
this whole day I took nothing of nourishment but one cup of tea without milk; but the fast
was very inconvenient. Towards night I grew fretful and impatient, unable to fix my mind or
govern my thoughts.'

[620] It is curious to compare with this Johnson's own record:--'I found the service not burdensome
nor tedious, though I could not hear the lessons. I hope in time to take pleasure in public
works.' Pr. and Med. p. 121.

[621] In the original in.

[622] Afterwards Charles I. BOSWELL.

[623] See ante, ii. 47.

[624] See post, April 9, 1778, where Johnson said:-'Goldsmith had no settled notions upon any
subject; so he talked always at random.'

[625] The next day Johnson recorded:--'I have had some nights of that quiet and continual sleep
which I had wanted till I had almost forgotten it.' Pemb. Coll. MSS.

[626] See ante, ii. 11.

[627] We have the following account of Johnson's kitchen in 1778: 'Mr. Thale.--"And pray who
is clerk of your kitchen, Sir?" Dr. J.--"Why, Sir, I am afraid there is none; a general anarchy
prevails in my kitchen, as I am told Mr. Levet, who says it is not now what it used to be."
Mr. T.--"But how do you get your dinners drest?" Dr. J.--"Why, Desmouline has the chief management,
for we have no jack." Mr. T.--"No jack? Why, how do they manage without?" Dr. J.--"Small joints,
I believe, they manage with a string, and larger one done at the tavern. I have some thoughts
(with a profound gravity) of buying a jack, because I think a jack is some credit to a house."
Mr. T.--"Well, but you'll have a spit too?" Dr. J.--"No Sir, no; that would be superfluous;
for we shall never use it; if a jack is seen, a spit will be presumed."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary,
i. 115.

[628] See ante, i. 418.

[629] See ante, i. 252.

[630] 'By inscribing this slight performance to you, I do not mean so much to compliment you
as myself. It may do me some honour to inform the publick, that I have lived many years in
intimacy with you. It may serve the interests of mankind also to inform them, that the greatest
wit may be found in a character, without impairing the most unaffected piety.' BOSWELL.

[631] See an account of this learned and respectable gentleman, and of his curious work in
the Middle State, Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edition. p. 371. [Oct. 25.] BOSWELL.
See post, June 9, 1784.

[632] See ante, i. 225, for Boswell's project works, and i. 211.

[633] 'When the efficiency [of men and women] is equal, but the pay unequal, the only explanation
that can be given is custom.' J. S. Mill's Political Economy, Book ii. ch. xiv. 5.

[634] The day before he told Boswell this he had recorded:--'My general resolution, to which
I humbly implore the help of God, is to methodise my life, to resist sloth. I hope from this
time to keep a journal.' Pr. and Med. p. 124. Four times more he recorded the same resolution
to keep a journal. See ante, i. 433, and post, Apr. 14,1775.

[635] See post, March 30, 1778, where Johnson says:--'A man loves to review his own mind. That
is the use of a diary or journal.'

[636] 'He who has not made the experiment, or who is not accustomed to require rigorous accuracy
from himself, will scarcely believe how much a few hours take from certainty of knowledge and
distinctness of imagery ... To this dilatory notation must be imputed the false relations of
travellers, where there is no imaginable motive to deceive. They trusted to memory what cannot
be trusted safely but to the eye, and told by guess what a few hours before they had known
with certainty.' Johnson's Works, ix. 144.

[637] Goldsmith, in his dedication to Reynolds of the Deserted Village, refers no doubt to
Johnson's opinion of luxury. He writes:--'I know you will object (and indeed several of our
best and wisest friends concur in the opinion) that the depopulation it deplores is nowhere
to be seen, and the disorders it laments are only to be found in the poet's own imagination....
In regretting the depopulation of the country I inveigh against the increase of our luxuries;
and here also I expect the shout of modern politicians against me. For twenty or thirty years
past it has been the fashion to consider luxury as one of the greatest national advantages.'
See post, April 15, 1778.

[638] Johnson, in his Parl. Debates (Works, x. 418), makes General Handasyd say:--'The whole
pay of a foot soldier is sixpence a day, of which he is to pay fourpence to his landlord for
his diet, or, what is very nearly the same, to carry fourpence daily to the market ... Twopence
a day is all that a soldier had to lay out upon cleanliness and decency, and with which he
is likewise to keep his arms in order, and to supply himself with some part of his clothing.
If, Sir, after these deductions he can, from twopence a day, procure himself the means of enjoying
a few happy moments in the year with his companions over a cup of ale, is not his economy much
more to be envied than his luxury?'

[639] The humours of Ballamagairy. BOSWELL.

[640]

'Ah me! when shall I marry me? Lovers are plenty; but fail to relieve me. He, fond youth, that
could carry me, Offers to love, but means to deceive me. But I will rally and combat the ruiner:
Not a look, nor a smile shall my passion discover; She that gives all to the false one pursuing
her, Makes but a penitent and loses a lover.'

Boswell, in a letter published in Goldsmith's Misc. Works, ii. 116, with the song, says:--'The
tune is a pretty Irish air, call The Humours of Ballamagairy, to which, he told me, he found
it very difficult to adapt words; but he has succeeded very happily in these few lines. As
I could sing the tune and was fond of them, he was so good as to give me them. I preserve this
little relic in his own handwriting with an affectionate care.'

[641] See ante, i. 408, and post April 7, 1776.

[642] See ante, ii. 74.

[643] See ante, i. 429.

[644] See ante, ii. 169, for Johnson's 'half-a-guinea's worth of inferiority.'

[645] Boswell (ante, i. 256) mentions that he knew Lyttelton. For his History, see ante, ii.
37. 1858, iii. 241.

[648] 'I was but once,' said Johnson, 'in Sterne's company, and then his only attempt at merriment
consisted in his display of a drawing too indecently gross to have delighted even in a brothel.'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 214.

[649] Townshend was not the man to make his jokes serve twice. Horace Walpole said of his Champagne
Speech,--'It was Garrick writing and acting extempore scenes of Congreve.' Memoirs of the Reign
of George III, iii. 25. Sir G. Colebrooke says:--'When Garrick and Foote were present he took
the lead, and hardly allowed them an opportunity of shewing their talents of mimicry, because
he could excel them in their own art.' Ib p. 101, note. '"Perhaps," said Burke, "there never
arose in this country, nor in any country, a man of a more pointed and finished wit."' Payne's
Burke, i. 146.

[650] The 'eminent public character' is no doubt Burke, and the friend, as Mr. Croker suggests,
probably Reynolds. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773, for a like charge made by Johnson
against Burke. Boswell commonly describes Burke as 'an eminent friend of ours;' but he could
not do so as yet, for he first met him fifteen days later. (Post, April 30.)

[651] 'Party,' Burke wrote in 1770 (Thoughts on the Present Discontents), 'is a body of men
united for promoting by their joint endeavours the national interest upon some particular principle
in which they are all agreed. For my part I find it impossible to conceive that any one believes
in his own politics, or thinks them to be of any weight, who refuses to adopt the means of
having them reduced into practice.' Payne's Burke, i. 86.

[652] On May 5, and again on Nov. 10, the play was commanded by the King and Queen. Prior's
Goldsmith, ii. 394.

[653] Absalom and Achitophel, part i. l. 872.

[654] Paoli perhaps was thinking of himself. While he was still 'the successful rebel' in Corsica,
he had said to Boswell:--'The arts and sciences are like dress and ornament. You cannot expect
them from us for some time. But come back twenty or thirty years hence, and we'll shew you
arts and sciences.' Boswell's Corsica, p.172.

[655] 'The Duke of Cumberland had been forbidden the Court on his marriage with Mrs. Horton,
a year before; but on the Duke of Gloucester's avowal of his marriage with Lady Waldegrave,
the King's indignation found vent in the Royal Marriage Act: which was hotly opposed by the
Whigs as an edict of tyranny. Goldsmith (perhaps for Burke's sake) helped to make it unpopular
with the people: "We'll go to France", says Hastings to Miss Neville, "for there, even among
slaves, the laws of marriage are respected." Said on the first night this had directed repeated
cheering to the Duke of Gloucester, who sat in one of the boxes.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii.
358. See ante, ii. 152.

[656] Stenography, by John Angell, 1758.

[657] See post, April 10, 1778.

[658] See ante, ii.

[659] James Harris, father of the first Earl of Malmesbury, born 1709, died 1780. Two years
later Boswell wrote to Temple: 'I am invited to a dinner at Mr. Cambridge's (for the dinner,
see post, April 18, 1773), where are to be Reynolds, Johnson, and Hermes Harris. "Do you think
so?" said he. "Most certainly, said I." Do you remember how I used to laugh at his style when
we were in the Temple? He thinks himself an ancient Greek from these little peculiarities,
as the imitators of Shakspeare, whom the Spectator mentions, thought they had done wonderfully
when they had produced a line similar:--

"And so, good morrow to ye, good Master Lieutenant."'

Letters of Boswell, p.187. It is not in the Spectator, but in Martinus Scriblerus, ch. ix.
(Swift's Works, 1803, xxiii, 53), that the imitators of Shakspeare are ridiculed. Harris got
his name of Hermes from his Hermes, or a Philosophical Inquiry concerning Universal Grammar.
Cradock (Memoirs, i, 208) says that, 'A gentleman applied to his friend to lend him some amusing
book, and he recommended Harris's Hermes. On returning it, the other asked how he had been
entertained. "Not much," he replied; "he thought that all these imitations of Tristram Shandy
fell far short of the original."' See post, April 7, 1778, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 3, 1773.

[660] Johnson suffers, in Cowper's epitaph on him, from the same kind of praise as Goldsmith
gives Harris:--

 'Whose verse may claim, grave, masculine and strong,
  Superior praise to the mere poet's song.'

Cowper's Works, v. 119.

[661] See ante, 210.

[662] Cave set up his coach about thirty years earlier (ante, i, 152, note). Dr. Franklin (Memoirs,
iii, 172) wrote to Mr. Straham in 1784:--'I remember your observing once to me, as we sat together
in the House of Commons, that no two journeymen printers within your knowledge had met with
such success in the world as ourselves. You were then at the head of your profession, and soon
afterwards became a member of parliament. I was an agent for a few provinces, and now act for
them all.'

[663] 'Hamilton made a large fortune out of Smollett's History.' Forster's Goldsmith, i, 149.
He was also the proprietor of the Critical Review.

[664] See ante, i, 71.

[665] See ante, ii, 179, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 19, 1773. Horace Walpole wrote of the
year 1773:--'The rage of duelling had of late much revived, especially in Ireland, and many
attempts were made in print and on the stage to curb so horrid and absurd a practice.' Journal
of the Reign of George III, i. 282.

[666] Very likely Boswell.

[667] In the Garrick's Corres up to this date there is no letter from Lord Mansfield which
answers Boswell's descriptions. To Lord Chatham Garrick had addressed some verses from Mount
Edgecumbe. Chatham, on April 3, 1772, sent verses in return, and wrote:--'You have kindly settled
upon me a lasting species of property I never dreamed of in that enchanting place; a far more
able conveyancer than any in Chancery-land. Ib i, 459.

[668]

'Then I alone the conquest prize, When I insult a rival's eyes: If there's, &c.'

Act iii, sc. 12.

[669]

'But how did he return, this haughty brave, Who whipt the winds, and made the sea his slave?
(Though Neptune took unkindly to be bound And Eurus never such hard usage found In his AEolian
prison under ground).'

Dryden, Juvenal, x. 180.

[670] Most likely Mr. Pepys, a Master in Chancery, whom Johnson more than once roughly attacked
at Streatham. See post, April 1, 1781, and Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 46.

[671] See ante, ii. 73.

[672] 'Jan. 5, 1772. Poor Mr. Fitzherbert hanged himself on Wednesday. He went to see the convicts
executed that morning; and from thence in his boots to his son, having sent his groom out of
the way. At three his son said, Sir, you are to dine at Mr. Buller's; it is time for you to
go home and dress. He went to his own stable and hanged himself with a bridle. They say his
circumstances were in great disorder.' Horace Walpole's Letters, v. 362. See ante, i. 82, and
post, Sept. 15, 1777.

[673] Boswell, in his Hebrides (Aug. 18, 1773) says that, 'Budgel was accused of forging a
will [Dr. Tindal's] and sunk himself in the Thames, before the trial of its authenticity came
on.' Pope, speaking of himself, says that he--

'Let Budgel charge low Grub-street on his quill, And write whate'er he pleas'd, except his will.'

Prologue to the Satires, 1, 378.

Budgel drowned himself on May 4, 1737, more than two years after the publication of this Prologue.
Gent. Mag. vii. 315. Perhaps the verse is an interpolation in a later edition. See post, April
26, 1776.

[674] See post, March 15, 1776.

[675] On the Douglas Cause. See ante, ii. 50, and post, March 26, 1776.

[676] I regretted that Dr. Johnson never took the trouble to study a question which interested
nations. He would not even read a pamphlet which I wrote upon it, entitled The Essence of the
Douglas Cause; which, I have reason to flatter myself, had considerable effect in favour of
Mr. Douglas; of whose legitimate filiation I was then, and am still, firmly convinced. Let
me add, that no fact can be more respectably ascertained than by the judgement of the most
august tribunal in the world; a judgement, in which Lord Mansfield and Lord Camden united in
1769, and from which only five of a numerous body entered a protest. BOSWELL. Boswell, in his
Hebrides, records on Oct. 26, 1773:--'Dr. Johnson roused my zeal so much that I took the liberty
to tell him that he knew nothing of the [Douglas] Cause.' Lord Shelburne says: 'I conceived
such a prejudice upon the sight of the present Lord Douglas's face and figure, that I could
not allow myself to vote in this cause. If ever I saw a Frenchman, he is one.' Fitzmaurice's
Shelburne, i. 10. Hume 'was struck,' he writes, 'with a very sensible indignation at the decision.
The Cause, though not in the least intricate, is so complicated that it never will be reviewed
by the public, who are besides perfectly pleased with the sentence; being swayed by compassion
and a few popular topics. To one who understands the Cause as I do, nothing could appear more
scandalous than the pleadings of the two law lords.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 423. In Campbell's
Chancellors, v. 494, an account is given of a duel between Stuart and Thurlow that arose out
of this suit.

[677] The Fountains. Works, ix. 176.

[678] See ante, ii. 25.

[679] It has already been observed (ante, ii. 55), that one of his first Essays was a Latin
Poem on a glow-worm; but whether it be any where extant, has not been ascertained. MALONE.

[680] 'Mallet's works are such as a writer, bustling in the world, shewing himself in publick,
and emerging occasionally from time to time into notice, might keep alive by his personal influence;
but which, conveying little information and giving no great pleasure, must soon give way, as
the succession of things produces new topicks of conversation and other modes of amusement.'
Johnson's Works, viii. 468.

[681] Johnson made less money, because he never 'traded' on his reputation. When he had made
his name, he almost ceased to write.

[682] 'May 27, 1773. Dr. Goldsmith has written a comedy--no, it is the lowest of all farces.
It is not the subject I condemn, though very vulgar, but the execution. The drift tends to
no moral, no edification of any kind. The situations, however, are well imagined, and make
one laugh, in spite of the grossness of the dialogue, the forced witticisms, and total improbability
of the whole plan and conduct. But what disgusts me most is, that though the characters are
very low, and aim at low humour, not one of them says a sentence that is natural or marks any
character at all. It is set up in opposition to sentimental comedy, and is as bad as the worst
of them.' Horace Walpole's Letters, v. 467. Northcote (Life of Reynolds, i. 286) says that
Goldsmith gave him an order to see this comedy. 'The next time I saw him, he inquired of me
what my opinion was of it. I told him that I would not presume to be a judge of its merits.
He asked, "Did it make you laugh?" I answered, "Exceedingly." "Then," said the Doctor, "that
is all I require."'

[683] Garrick brought out his revised version of this play by Beaumont and Fletcher in 1754-5.
Murphy's Garrick, p. 170. The compliment is in a speech by Don Juan, act v. sc. 2: 'Ay, but
when things are at the worst, they'll mend; example does everything, and the fair sex will
certainly grow better, whenever the greatest is the best woman in the kingdom.'

[684] Formular is not in Johnson's Dictionary.

[685]

'On earth, a present god, shall Caesar reign.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, iii. 5.2.

[686] See ante, i. 167.

[687] Johnson refers, I believe, to Temple's Essay Of Heroic Virtue, where he says that 'the
excellency of genius' must not only 'be cultivated by education and instruction,' but also
'must be assisted by fortune to preserve it to maturity; because the noblest spirit or genius
in the world, if it falls, though never so bravely, in its first enterprises, cannot deserve
enough of mankind to pretend to so great a reward as the esteem of heroic virtue.' Temple's
Works, iii. 306.

[688] See post, Sept. 17, 1777.

[689] In an epitaph that Burke wrote for Garrick, he says: 'He raised the character of his
profession to the rank of a liberal art.' Windham's Diary, p. 361.

[690] 'The allusion,' as Mr. Lockhart pointed out, 'is not to the Tale of a Tub, but to the
History of John Bull' (part ii. ch 12 and 13). Jack, who hangs himself, is however the youngest
of the three brothers of The Tale of a Tub, 'that have made such a clutter in the work' (ib.
chap ii). Jack was unwillingly convinced by Habbakkuk's argument that to save his life he must
hang himself. Sir Roger, he was promised, before the rope was well about his neck, would break
in and cut him down.

[691] He wrote the following letter to Goldsmith, who filled the chair that evening. 'It is,'
Mr. Forster says (Life of Goldsmith, ii. 367), 'the only fragment of correspondence between
Johnson and Goldsmith that has been preserved.'

'April 23, 1773.

'SIR,--I beg that you will excuse my absence to the Club; I am going this evening to Oxford.

'I have another favour to beg. It is that I may be considered as proposing Mr. Boswell for
a candidate of our society, and that he may be considered as regularly nominated.

'I am, sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

If Johnson went to Oxford his stay there was brief, as on April 27 Boswell found him at home.

[692] 'There are,' says Johnson, speaking of Dryden (Works, vii. 292), 'men whose powers operate
only at leisure and in retirement, and whose intellectual vigour deserts them in conversation.'
See also ante, i. 413. 'No man,' he said of Goldsmith, 'was more foolish when he had not a
pen in his hand, or more wise when he had;' post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection. Horace
Walpole (Letters, viii. 560), who 'knew Hume personally and well,' said, 'Mr. Hume's writings
were so superior to his conversation, that I frequently said he understood nothing till he
had written upon it.'

[693] The age of great English historians had not long begun. The first volume of The Decline
and Fall was published three years later. Addison had written in 1716 (Freeholder, No. 35),
'Our country, which has produced writers of the first figure in every other kind of work, has
been very barren in good historians.' Johnson, in 1751, repeated this observation in The Rambler,
No. 122. Lord Bolingbroke wrote in 1735 (Works, iii. 454), 'Our nation has furnished as ample
and as important matter, good and bad, for history, as any nation under the sun; and yet we
must yield the palm in writing history most certainly to the Italians and to the French, and
I fear even to the Germans.'

[694] Gibbon, informing Robertson on March 26, 1788, of the completion of The Decline and Fall,
said:--'The praise which has ever been the most flattering to my ear, is to find my name associated
with the names of Robertson and Hume; and provided I can maintain my place in the triumvirate,
I am indifferent at what distance I am ranked below my companions and masters.' Dugald Stewart's
Robertson, p. 367.

[695] 'Sir,' said Johnson, 'if Robertson's style be faulty, he owes it me; that is, having
too many words, and those too big ones.' Post, Sept. 19, 1777. Johnson was not singular among
the men of his time in condemning Robertson's verbiage. Wesley (Journal, iii. 447) wrote of
vol. i. of Charles the Fifth:--'Here is a quarto volume of eight or ten shillings' price, containing
dry, verbose dissertations on feudal government, the substance of all which might be comprised
in half a sheet of paper!' Johnson again uses verbiage (a word not given in his Dictionary),
post, April 9, 1778.

[696] See ante, ii. 210.

[697] See post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[698] 'Vertot, ne en Normandie en 1655. Historien agreable et elegant. Mort en 1735.' Voltaire,
Siecle de Louis XIV.

[699] Even Hume had no higher notion of what was required in a writer of ancient history. He
wrote to Robertson, who was, it seems, meditating a History of Greece:--'What can you do in
most places with these (the ancient) authors but transcribe and translate them? No letters
or state papers from which you could correct their errors, or authenticate their narration,
or supply their defects.' J.H. Burton's Hume, ii. 83.

[700] See ante, ii. 53. Southey, asserting that Robertson had never read the Laws of Alonso
the Wise, says, that 'it is one of the thousand and one omissions for which he ought to be
called rogue as long as his volumes last.' Southey's Life, ii. 318.

[701] Ovid. de Art. Amand. i. iii. v. 13 [339]. BOSWELL. 'It may be that our name too will
mingle with those.'

[702] The Gent. Mag. for Jan. 1766 (p. 45) records, that 'a person was observed discharging
musket-balls from a steel crossbow at the two remaining heads upon Temple Bar.' They were the
heads of Scotch rebels executed in 1746. Samuel Rogers, who died at the end of 1855, said,
'I well remember one of the heads of the rebels upon a pole at Temple Bar.' Rogers's Table-Talk,
p. 2.

[703] In allusion to Dr. Johnson's supposed political principles, and perhaps his own. BOSWELL.

[704] 'Dr. Johnson one day took Bishop Percy's little daughter upon his knee, and asked her
what she thought of Pilgrim's Progress. The child answered that she had not read it. "No!"
replied the Doctor; "then I would not give one farthing for you:" and he set her down and took
no further notice of her.' Croker's Boswell, p. 838. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 281) says, that
Johnson once asked, 'Was there ever yet anything written by mere man that was wished longer
by its readers, excepting Don Quixote, Robinson Crusoe, and The Pilgrim's Progress?'

[705] It was Johnson himself who was thus honoured. Post, under Dec. 20, 1784.

[706] Here is another instance of his high admiration of Milton as a Poet, notwithstanding
his just abhorrence of that sour Republican's political principles. His candour and discrimination
are equally conspicuous. Let us hear no more of his 'injustice to Milton.' BOSWELL.

[707] There was an exception to this. In his criticism of Paradise Lost (Works, vii. 136),
he says:--'The confusion of spirit and matter which pervades the whole narration of the war
of Heaven fills it with incongruity; and the book in which it is related is, I believe, the
favourite of children, and gradually neglected as knowledge is increased.'

[708] In the Academy, xxii. 348, 364, 382, Mr. C. E. Doble shews strong grounds for the belief
that the author was Richard Allestree, D.D., Regius Professor of Divinity, Oxford, and Provost
of Eton. Cowper spoke of it as 'that repository of self-righteousness and pharisaical lumber;'
with which opinion Southey wholly disagreed. Southey's Cowper, i. 116.

[709] Johnson said to Boswell:--'Sir, they knew that if they refused you they'd probably never
have got in another. I'd have kept them all out. Beauclerk was very earnest for you.' Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 21, 1773.

[710] Garrick and Jones had been elected this same spring. See ante, i. 481, note 3.

[711] Mr. Langton, in his Collection (post, 1780), mentions an ode brought by Goldsmith to
the Club, which had been recited for money.

[712] Dr. Johnson's memory here was not perfectly accurate: Eugenio does not conclude thus.
There are eight more lines after the last of those quoted by him; and the passage which he
meant to recite is as follows:--

'Say now ye fluttering, poor assuming elves, Stark full of pride, of folly, of--yourselves;
Say where's the wretch of all your impious crew Who dares confront his character to view? Behold
Eugenio, view him o'er and o'er, Then sink into yourselves, and be no more.'

Mr. Reed informs me that the Author of Eugenio, a Wine Merchant at Wrexham in Denbighshire,
soon after its publication, viz. 17th May, 1737, cut his own throat; and that it appears by
Swift's Works that the poem had been shewn to him, and received some of his corrections. Johnson
had read Eugenio on his first coming to town, for we see it mentioned in one of his letters
to Mr. Cave, which has been inserted in this work; ante, p. 122. BOSWELL. See Swift's Works,
ed. 1803, xix. 153, for his letter to this wine merchant, Thomas Beach by name.

[713] These lines are in the Annus Mirabilis (stanza 164) in a digression in praise of the
Royal Society; described by Johnson (Works, vii. 320) as 'an example seldom equalled of seasonable
excursion and artful return.' Ib p. 341, he says: 'Dryden delighted to tread upon the brink
of meaning, where light and darkness begin to mingle.... This inclination sometimes produced
nonsense, which he knew; and sometimes it issued in absurdities, of which perhaps he was not
conscious.' He then quotes these lines, and continues: 'They have no meaning; but may we not
say, in imitation of Cowley on another book--

"'Tis so like sense, 'twill serve the turn as well."'

Cowley's line is from his Pindarique Ode to Mr. Hobs:--

''Tis so like truth, 'twill serve our turn as well.'

[714] In his Dictionary, he defines punster as a low wit, who endeavours at reputation by double
meaning. See post, April 28, 1778.

[715] I formerly thought that I had perhaps mistaken the word, and imagined it to be Corps,
from its similarity of sound to the real one. For an accurate and shrewd unknown gentleman,
to whom I am indebted for some remarks on my work, observes on this passage--'Q. if not on
the word Fort? A vociferous French preacher said of Bourdaloue, "Il preche fort bien, et moi
bien fort."'--Menagiana. See also Anecdotes Litteraires, Article Bourdaloue. But my ingenious
and obliging correspondent, Mr. Abercrombie of Philadelphia, has pointed out to me the following
passage in Menagiana; which renders the preceding conjecture unnecessary, and confirms my original
statement:

'Madme de Bourdonne, Chanoinesse de Remiremont, venoit d'entendre un discours plein de feu
et d'esprit, mais fort peu solide, et tresirregulier. Une de ses amies, qui y prenoit interet
pour l'orateur, lui dit en sortant, "Eh bien, Madme que vous semble-t-il de ce que vous venez
d'entendre?--Qu'il ya d'esprit?"--"Il y a tant, repondit Madme de Bourdonne, que je n'y ai
pas vu de corps"'--Menagiana, tome ii. p. 64. Amsterd. 1713. BOSWELL. Menagiana, ou les bans
mots et remarques critiques, historiqites, morales et derudition de M. Menage, recueillies
par ses amis, published in 1693. Gilles Menage was born 1613, died 1692.

[716] That Johnson only relished the conversation, and did not join in it, is more unlikely.
In his charge to Boswell, he very likely pointed out that what was said within was not to be
reported without. Boswell gives only brief reports of the talk at the Club, and these not openly.
See post, April 7, 1775, note.

[717] See post, the passage before Feb. 18, 1775.

[718] By the Rev. Henry Wharton, published in 1692.

[719] See ante, ii. 126, for what Johnson said of the inward light.

[720] Lady Diana Beauclerk. In 1768 Beauclerk married the eldest daughter of the second Duke
of Marlborough, two days after her divorce from her first husband, Viscount Bolingbroke, the
nephew of the famous Lord Bolingbroke. She was living when her story, so slightly veiled as
it is, was thus published by Boswell. The marriage was not a happy one. Two years after Beauclerk's
death, Mr. Burke, looking at his widow's house, said in Miss Burney's presence:--'I am extremely
glad to see her at last so well housed; poor woman! the bowl has long rolled in misery; I rejoice
that it has now found its balance. I never myself so much enjoyed the sight of happiness in
another, as in that woman when I first saw her after the death of her husband.' He then drew
Beauclerk's character 'in strong and marked expressions, describing the misery he gave his
wife, his singular ill-treatment of her, and the necessary relief the death of such a man must
give.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 147.

[721] Old Mr. Langton. CROKER. See post, April 26, 1776.

[722] See post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[723] See post, May 15, 1776.

[724] The writer of hymns.

[725] Malone says that 'Hawkesworth was introduced by Garrick to Lord Sandwich, who, thinking
to put a few hundred pounds into his pocket, appointed him to revise and publish Cook's Voyages.
He scarcely did anything to the MSS., yet sold it to Cadell and Strahan for L6000.' Prior's
Malone, p. 441. Thurlow, in his speech on copy-right on March 24, 1774, said 'that Hawkesworth's
book, which was a mere composition of trash, sold for three guineas by the booksellers' monopolizing.'
Parl. Hist. xvii. 1086. See ante, i. 253, note 1, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 3.

[726] Gilbert White held 'that, though most of the swallow kind may migrate, yet that some
do stay behind, and bide with us during the winter.' White's Selborne, Letter xii. See ante,
ii. 55.

[727] See ante, ii. 73.

[728] No. 41. 'The sparrow that was hatched last spring makes her first nest the ensuing season
of the same materials, and with the same art as in any following year; and the hen conducts
and shelters her first brood of chickens with all the prudence that she ever attains.'

[729] See post, April 3, 1776, April 3, 1779, and April 28, 1783.

[730] Rousseau went further than Johnson in this. About eleven years earlier he had, in his
Contract Social, iv. 8, laid down certain 'simple dogmas,' such as the belief in a God and
a future state, and said:--'Sans pouvoir obliger personne a les croire, il [le Souverain] peut
bannir de l'Etat quiconque ne les croit pas: ... Que si quelquiun, apres avoir reconne publiquement
ces memes dogmes, se conduit comme ne les croyant pas, qu'il soit puni de mort; il a commis
le plus grand des crimes, il a menti devant les lois.'

[731] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[732] Boswell calls Elwal Johnson's countryman, because they both came from the same county.
See ante, ii.

[733] Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, i. 219, says:--'Johnson would have made an
excellent Spanish inquisitor. To his shame be it said, he always was tooth and nail against
toleration.'

[734] Dr. Mayo's calm temper and steady perseverance, rendered him an admirable subject for
the exercise of Dr. Johnson's powerful abilities. He never flinched; but, after reiterated
blows, remained seemingly unmoved as at the first. The scintillations of Johnson's genius flashed
every time he was struck, without his receiving any injury. Hence he obtained the epithet of
The Literary Anvil. BOSWELL. See post, April 15, 1778, for an account of another dinner at
Mr. Dilly's, where Johnson and Mayo met.

[735] The Young Pretender, Charles Edward.

[736] Mr. Croker, quoting Johnson's letter of May 20, 1775 (Piozzi Letters, i. 219), where
he says, 'I dined in a large company at a dissenting bookseller's yesterday, and disputed against
toleration with one Doctor Meyer,' continues:--'This must have been the dinner noted in the
text; but I cannot reconcile the date, and the mention of the death of the Queen of Denmark,
which happened on May 10, 1775, ascertains that the date of the letter is correct. Boswell
... must, I think, have misdated and misplaced his note of the conversation.' That the dinner
did not take place in May, 1775, is, however, quite clear. By that date Goldsmith had been
dead more than a year, and Goldsmith bore a large part in the talk at the Dilly's table. On
the other hand, there can be no question about the correctness of the date of the letter. Wesley,
in his Journal for 1757 (ii. 349), mentions 'Mr. Meier, chaplain to one of the Hanoverian regiments.'
Perhaps he is the man whom Johnson met in 1775.

[737] See ante, i. 423, note 2.

[738] 'It is very possible he had to call at Covent-garden on his way, and that for this, and
not for Boswell's reason, he had taken his hat early. The actor who so assisted him in Young
Marlow was taking his benefit this seventh of May; and for an additional attraction Goldsmith
had written him an epilogue.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 376.

[739] Johnson was not given to interrupting a speaker. Hawkins (Life, p. 164), describing his
conversation, says:--'For the pleasure he communicated to his hearers he expected not the tribute
of silence; on the contrary, he encouraged others, particularly young men, to speak, and paid
a due attention to what they said.' See post, under April 29, 1776, note.

[740] That this was Langton can be seen from Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22, 1773, and from Johnson's
letters of July 5, 1773, July 5, 1774, and Jan. 21, 1775.

[741] See post, April 28, 1783.

[742] Pr. and Med. p. 40. Boswell.

[743] See ante, i. 489.

[744] 'In England,' wrote Burke, 'the Roman Catholics are a sect; in Ireland they are a nation.'
Burke's Corres. iv. 89.

[745] 'The celebrated number of ten persecutions has been determined by the ecclesiastical
writers of the fifth century, who possessed a more distinct view of the prosperous or adverse
fortunes of the church, from the age of Nero to that of Diocletian. The ingenious parallels
of the ten plagues of Egypt, and of the ten horns of the Apocalypse, first suggested this calculation
to their minds.' Gibbon's Decline and Fall, ch. xvi, ed. 1807, ii. 370.

[746] See ante, ii. 121, 130.

[747] See ante, ii. 105. 457. He wrote to Dr. Taylor in 1756:--'When I am musing alone, I feel
a pang for every moment that any human being has by my peevishness or obstinacy spent in uneasiness.'
Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 324. More than twenty years later he said in Miss Burney's hearing:--'I
am always sorry when I make bitter speeches, and I never do it but when I am insufferably vexed.'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 131. 'When the fray was over,' writes Murphy (Life, p. 140), 'he
generally softened into repentance, and, by conciliating measures, took care that no animosity
should be left rankling in the breast of the antagonist.' See ante, ii. 109.

[749] Johnson had offended Langton as well as Goldsmith this day, yet of Goldsmith only did
he ask pardon. Perhaps this fact increased Langton's resentment, which lasted certainly more
than a year. See post, July 5, 1774, and Jan. 21, 1775.

[750] 'Addison, speaking of his own deficiency in conversation, used to say of himself, that
with respect to intellectual wealth he could draw bills for a thousand pounds, though he had
not a guinea in his pocket.' Johnson's Works, vii. 446. Somewhat the same thought may be found
in The Tatler, No. 30, where it is said that 'a man endowed with great perfections without
good-breeding, is like one who has his pockets full of gold, but always wants change for his
ordinary occasions.' I have traced it still earlier, for Burnet in his History of his own Times,
i. 210, says, that 'Bishop Wilkins used to say Lloyd had the most learning in ready cash of
any he ever knew.' Later authors have used the same image. Lord Chesterfield (Letters, ii.
291) in 1749 wrote of Lord Bolingbroke:--'He has an infinite fund of various and almost universal
knowledge, which, from the clearest and quickest conception and happiest memory that ever man
was blessed with, he always carries about him. It is his pocket-money, and he never has occasion
to draw upon a book for any sum.' Southey wrote in 1816 (Life and Corres. iv. 206):--'I wish
to avoid a conference which will only sink me in Lord Liverpool's judgment; what there may
be in me is not payable at sight; give me leisure and I feel my strength.' Rousseau was in
want of readiness like Addison:--'Je fais d'excellens impromptus a loisir; mais sur le temps
je n'ai jamais rien fait ni dit qui vaille. Je ferais une fort jolie conversation par la poste,
comme on dit que les Espagnols jouent aux echecs. Quand je lus le trait d'un Duc de Savoye
qui se retourna, faisant route, pour crier; a votre gorge, marchand de Paris, je dis, me voila.'
Les Confessions, Livre iii. See also post, May 8, 1778.

[751] 'Among the many inconsistencies which folly produces, or infirmity suffers in the human
mind, there has often been observed a manifest and striking contrariety between the life of
an author and his writings; and Milton, in a letter to a learned stranger, by whom he had been
visited, with great reason congratulates himself upon the consciousness of being found equal
to his own character, and having preserved in a private and familiar interview that reputation
which his works had procured him.' The Rambler, No. 14.

[752] Prior (Life of Goldsmith, ii. 459) says that it was not a German who interrupted Goldsmith
but a Swiss, Mr. Moser, the keeper of the Royal Academy (post, June 2, 1783). He adds that
at a Royal Academy dinner Moser interrupted another person in the same way, when Johnson seemed
preparing to speak, whereupon Goldsmith said, 'Are you sure that you can comprehend what he says?'

[753] Edmund Burke he called Mund; Dodsley, Doddy; Derrick, Derry; Cumberland, Cumbey; Monboddo,
Monny; Stockdale, Stockey. Mrs. Piozzi represents him in his youth as calling Edmund Hector
'dear Mund.' Ante, i. 93, note. Sheridan's father had been known as Sherry among Swift and
his friends. Swift's Works, ed. 1803, x. 256.

[754] Mr. Forster (Life of Goldsmith, ii. 103) on this remarks:--'It was a courteous way of
saying, "I wish you [Davies] wouldn't call me Goldy, whatever Mr. Johnson does."' That he is
wrong in this is shown by Boswell, in his letter to Johnson of Feb. 14, 1777, where he says:--'You
remember poor Goldsmith, when he grew important, and wished to appear Doctor Major, could not
bear your calling him Goldy.' See also Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14, 1773.

[755] The Reverend Thomas Bagshaw, M.A., who died on November 20, 1787, in the seventy-seventh
year of his age, Chaplain of Bromley College, in Kent, and Rector of Southfleet. He had resigned
the cure of Bromley Parish some time before his death. For this, and another letter from Dr.
Johnson in 1784, to the same truely respectable man, I am indebted to Dr. John Loveday, of
the Commons [ante, i. 462, note 1], a son of the late learned and pious John Loveday, Esq.,
of Caversham in Berkshire, who obligingly transcribed them for me from the originals in his
possession. This worthy gentleman, having retired from business, now lives in Warwickshire.
The world has been lately obliged to him as the Editor of the late Rev. Dr. Townson's excellent
work, modestly entitled, A Discourse on the Evangelical History, from the Interment to the
Ascension of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; to which is prefixed, a truly interesting and
pleasing account of the authour, by the Reverend Mr. Ralph Churton. BOSWELL.

[756] Sunday was May 9.

[757] As Langton was found to deeply resent Johnson's hasty expression at the dinner on the
7th, we must assume that he had invited Johnson to dine with him before the offence had been given.

[758] In the Dictionary Johnson, as the second definition of metaphysical, says: 'In Shakespeare
it means supernatural or preternatural.' 'Creation' being beyond the nature of man, the right
derived from it is preternatural or metaphysical.

[759] See ante, i. 437.

[760] Hume, on Feb. 24 of this year, mentioned to Adam Smith as a late publication Lord Monboddo's
Origin and Progress of Language:--'It contains all the absurdity and malignity which I suspected;
but is writ with more ingenuity and in a better style than I looked for.' J. H. Burton's Hume,
ii. 466. See ante, ii. 74.

[761] Monday was May 10.

[762] See ante, i. 413. Percy wrote of Goldsmith's envy:--'Whatever appeared of this kind was
a mere momentary sensation, which he knew not how, like other men, to conceal.' Goldsmith's
Misc. Works, i. 117.

[763] He might have applied to himself his own version of Ovid's lines, Genus et proavos, &c.,
the motto to The Rambler, No. 46:--

'Nought from my birth or ancestors I claim; All is my own, my honor and my shame.'

See ante, ii. 153.

[764] That Langton is meant is shewn by Johnson's letter of July 5 (post, p. 265). The man
who is there described as leaving the town in deep dudgeon was certainly Langton. 'Where is
now my legacy?' writes Johnson. He is referring, I believe, to the last part of his playful
and boisterous speech, where he says:--'I hope he has left me a legacy.' Mr. Croker, who is
great at suspicions, ridiculously takes the mention of a legacy seriously, and suspects 'some
personal disappointment at the bottom of this strange obstreperous and sour merriment.' He
might as well accuse Falstaff of sourness in his mirth.

[765] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 23, 1773, where Boswell makes the same remark.

[766]

'Et quorum pars magna fui.' 'Yea, and was no small part thereof.'

Morris, AEneids, ii. 6.

[767] Johnson, as drawn by Boswell, is too 'awful, melancholy, and venerable.' Such 'admirable
fooling' as he describes here is but rarely shown in his pages. Yet he must often have seen
equally 'ludicrous exhibitions.' Hawkins (Life, p. 258) says, that 'in the talent of humour
there hardly ever was Johnson's equal, except perhaps among the old comedians.' Murphy writes
(Life, p. l39):--'Johnson was surprised to be told, but it is certainly true, that with great
powers of mind, wit and humour were his shining talents.' Mrs. Piozzi confirms this. 'Mr. Murphy,'
she writes (Anec. p. 205), 'always said he was incomparable at buffoonery.' She adds (p. 298):--'He
would laugh at a stroke of genuine humour, or sudden sally of odd absurdity, as heartily and
freely as I ever yet saw any man; and though the jest was often such as few felt besides himself,
yet his laugh was irresistible, and was observed immediately to produce that of the company,
not merely from the notion that it was proper to laugh when he did, but purely out of want
of power to forbear it.' Miss Burney records:--'Dr. Johnson has more fun, and comical humour,
and love of nonsense about him than almost anybody I ever saw.' Mine. D'Arblay's Diary, i.
204. See Boswell's own account, post, end of vol. iv.

[768] Pr. and Med. p. 129. BOSWELL. See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection for Johnson's
study of Low Dutch.

[769] 'Those that laugh at the portentous glare of a comet, and hear a crow with equal tranquillity
from the right or left, will yet talk of times and situations proper for intellectual performances,'
&c. The Idler, No. xi. See ante, i. 332.

[770] 'He did not see at all with one of his eyes' (ante, i. 41).

[771] Not six months before his death, he wished me to teach him the Scale of Musick:--'Dr.
Burney, teach me at least the alphabet of your language.' BURNEY.

[772] Accurata Burdonum [i.e. Scaligerorum] Fabulae Confutatio (auctore I. R). Lugduni Batavorum.
Apud Ludovicum Elzevirium MDCXVII. BRIT. MUS. CATALOGUE.

[773] Mrs. Piozzi's Anecdotes of Johnson, p. 131. BOSWELL. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 129) describes
her mother and Johnson as 'excellent, far beyond the excellence of any other man and woman
I ever yet saw. As her conduct extorted his truest esteem, her cruel illness excited all his
tenderness. He acknowledged himself improved by her piety, and over her bed with the affection
of a parent, and the reverence of a son.' Baretti, in a MS. note on Piozzi Letters, i. 81,
says that 'Johnson could not much near Mrs. Salusbury, nor Mrs. Salusbury him, when they first
knew each other. But her cancer moved his compassion, and made them friends.' Johnson, recording
her death, says:--'Yesterday, as I touched her hand and kissed it, she pressed my hand between
her two hands, which she probably intended as the parting caress ... This morning being called
about nine to feel her pulse, I said at parting, "God bless you; for Jesus Christ's sake."
She smiled as pleased.' Pr. and Med. p. 128.

[774] Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor July 22, 1782:--'Sir Robert Chambers slipped this session
through the fingers of revocation, but I am in doubt of his continuance. Shelburne seems to
be his enemy. Mrs. Thrale says they will do him no harm. She perhaps thinks there is no harm
without hanging. The mere act of recall strips him of eight thousand a year.' Notes and Queries,
6th S., v. 462.

[775] Beattie was Professor of Moral Philosophy. For some years his 'English friends had tried
to procure for him a permanent provision beyond the very moderate emoluments arising from his
office.' Just before Johnson wrote, Beattie had been privately informed that he was to have
a pension of L200 a year. Forbes's Beattie, ed. 1824, pp. 145, 151. When Johnson heard of this
'he clapped his hands, and cried, "O brave we!"' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 26.

[776] Langton. See ante, p. 254, note 2.

[777] Langton--his native village.

[778] See ante, p. 261, note 2.

[779] That he set out on this day is shewn by his letter to Mrs. Thrale. Piozzi Letters, ii.
103. The following anecdote in the Memoir of Goldsmith, prefixed to his Misc. Works (i. 110),
is therefore inaccurate:--'I was dining at Sir Joshua Reynolds's, August 7, 1773, where were
the Archbishop of Tuam and Mr. (now Lord) Eliot, when the latter making use of some sarcastical
reflections on Goldsmith, Johnson broke out warmly in his defence, and in the course of a spirited
eulogium said, "Is there a man, Sir, now who can pen an essay with such ease and elegance as
Goldsmith?"' Johnson did in August, 1783, dine at Reynolds's, and meet there the Archbishop
of Tuam, 'a man coarse of voice and inelegant of language' Piozzi Letters, ii. 300.

[780] It was on Saturday the 14th of August that he arrived.

[781] From Aug. 14 to Nov. 22 is one hundred days.

[782] It is strange that not one of the four conferred on him an honorary degree. This same
year Beattie had been thus honoured at Oxford. Gray, who visited Aberdeen eight years before
Johnson, was offered the degree of doctor of laws, 'which, having omitted to take it at Cambridge,
he thought it decent to refuse.' Johnson's Works, viii. 479.

[783] He was long remembered amongst the lower order of Hebrideans by the title of Sassenach
More, the big Englishman. WALTER SCOTT.

[784] The first edition was published in September, 1785. In the following August, in his preface
to the third edition, Boswell speaks of the first two editions 'as large impressions.'

[785] The authour was not a small gainer by this extraordinary Journey; for Dr. Johnson thus
writes to Mrs. Thrale, Nov. 3, 1773:--'Boswell will praise my resolution and perseverance,
and I shall in return celebrate his good humour and perpetual cheerfulness. He has better faculties
than I had imagined; more justness of discernment, and more fecundity of images. It is very
convenient to travel with him; for there is no house where he is not received with kindness
and respect.' Let. 90, to Mrs. Thrale. [Piozzi Letters, i. 198.] MALONE.

[786] 'The celebrated Flora Macdonald. See Boswell's Tour' COURTENAY.

[787] Lord Eldon (at that time Mr. John Scott) has the following reminiscences of this visit:--'I
had a walk in New Inn Hall Garden with Dr. Johnson and Sir Robert Chambers [Principal of the
Hall]. Sir Robert was gathering snails, and throwing them over the wall into his neighbours
garden. The Doctor repreached him very roughly, and stated to him that this was unmannerly
and unneighbourly. "Sir," said Sir Robert, "my neighbour is a Dissenter." "Oh!" said the Doctor,
"if so, Chambers, toss away, toss away, as hard as you can." He was very absent. I have seen
him standing for a very long time, without moving, with a foot on each side the kennel which
was then in the middle of the High Street, with his eyes fixed on the water running in it.
In the common-room of University College he was dilating upon some subject, and the then head
of Lincoln College, Dr. Mortimer, occasionally interrupted him, saying, "I deny that." This
was often repeated, and observed upon by Johnson, in terms expressive of increasing displeasure
and anger. At length upon the Doctor's repeating the words, "I deny that," "Sir, Sir," said
Johnson, "you must have forgot that an author has said: Plus negabit tinus asinus in una hora
quam centum philosophi probaverint in centum annis."' [Dr. Fisher, who related this story to
Mr. Croker, described Dr. Mortimer as 'a Mr. Mortimer, a shallow under-bred man, who had no
sense of Johnson's superiority. He flatly contradicted some assertion which Johnson had pronounced
to be as clear as that two and two make four.' Croker's Boswell, p. 483.] 'Mrs. John Scott
used to relate that she had herself helped Dr. Johnson one evening to fifteen cups of tea.'
Twiss's Eldon, i. 87.

[788] In this he shewed a very acute penetration. My wife paid him the most assiduous and respectful
attention, while he was our guest; so that I wonder how he discovered her wishing for his departure.
The truth is, that his irregular hours and uncouth habits, such as turning the candles with
their heads downwards, when they did not burn bright enough, and letting the wax drop upon
the carpet, could not but be disagreeable to a lady. Besides, she had not that high admiration
of him which was felt by most of those who knew him; and what was very natural to a female
mind, she thought he had too much influence over her husband. She once in a little warmth,
made, with more point than justice, this remark upon that subject: 'I have seen many a bear
led by a man; but I never before saw a man led by a bear.' BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 66.

[789] Sir Alexander Gordon, one of the Professors at Aberdeen. BOSWELL.

[790] This was a box containing a number of curious things which he had picked up in Scotland,
particularly some horn spoons. BOSWELL.

[791] The Rev. Dr. Alexander Webster, one of the ministers of Edinburgh, a man of distinguished
abilities, who had promised him information concerning the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
BOSWELL.

[792] The Macdonalds always laid claim to be placed on the right of the whole clans, and those
of that tribe assign the breach of this order at Culloden as one cause of the loss of the day.
The Macdonalds, placed on the left wing, refused to charge, and positively left the field unassailed
and unbroken. Lord George Murray in vain endeavoured to urge them on by saying, that their
behaviour would make the left the right, and that he himself would take the name of Macdonald.
WALTER SCOTT.

[793] The whole of the first volume is Johnson's and three-quarters of the second. A second
edition was published the following year, with a third volume added, which also contained pieces
by Johnson, but no apology from Davies.

[794] 'When Davies printed the Fugitive Pieces without his knowledge or consent; "How," said
I, "would Pope have raved had he been served so?" "We should never," replied he, "have heard
the last on't, to be sure; but then Pope was a narrow man: I will however," added he, "storm
and bluster myself a little this time;"--so went to London in all the wrath he could muster
up. At his return I asked how the affair ended:

'"Why," said he, "I was a fierce fellow, and pretended to be very angry, and Thomas was a good-natured
fellow, and pretended to be very sorry; so there the matter ended: I believe the dog loves
me dearly. Mr. Thrale" (turning to my husband), "What shall you and I do that is good for Tom
Davies? We will do something for him to be sure."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 55.

[795] Prayers and Meditations, BOSWELL.

[796] The ancient Burgh of Prestick, in Ayrshire. BOSWELL.

[797] Perhaps Johnson imperfectly remembered, 'novae rediere in pristina vires.' AEneid, xii. 424.

[798] See ante, i. 437. The decision was given on Feb. 22 against the perpetual right. 'By
the above decision near 200,000L. worth of what was honestly purchased at public sale, and
which was yesterday thought property, is now reduced to nothing.... The English booksellers
have now no other security in future for any literary purchase they may make but the statute
of the 8th of Queen Anne, which secures to the authors assigns an exclusive property for 14
years, to revert again to the author, and vest in him for 14 years more.' Ann. Reg. 1774, i. 95.

[799] Murphy was a barrister as well as author.

[800] Mr. Croker quotes a note by Malone to show that in the catalogue of Steevens's Library
this book is described as a quarto, corio turcico foliis deauratis.

[801] A manuscript account drawn by Dr. Webster of all the parishes in Scotland, ascertaining
their length, breadth, number of inhabitants, and distinguishing Protestants and Roman Catholicks.
This book had been transmitted to government, and Dr. Johnson saw a copy of it in Dr. Webster's
possession. BOSWELL.

[802] Beauclerk, three weeks earlier, had written to Lord Charlemont:--'Our club has dwindled
away to nothing. Nobody attends but Mr. Chambers, and he is going to the East Indies. Sir Joshua
and Goldsmith have got into such a round of pleasures that they have no time.' Charlemont's
Life, i. 350. Johnson, no doubt, had been kept away by illness (ante, p. 272).

[803] Mr. Fox, as Sir James Mackintosh informed me, was brought in by Burke. CROKER.

[804] Sir C. Bunbury was the brother of Mr. H. W. Bunbury, the caricaturist, who married Goldsmith's
friend, the elder Miss Horneck--'Little Comedy' as she was called. Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 147.

[805] Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 23) tells how Dr. Fordyce, who sometimes drank a good deal, was
summoned to a lady patient when he was conscious that he had had too much wine. 'Feeling her
pulse, and finding himself unable to count its beats, he muttered, "Drunk by G--." Next morning
a letter from her was put into his hand. "She too well knew," she wrote, "that he had discovered
the unfortunate condition in which she had been, and she entreated him to keep the matter secret
in consideration of the enclosed (a hundred-pound bank-note)."'

[806] Steevens wrote to Garrick on March 6:--'Mr. C. Fox pays you but a bad compliment; as
he appears, like the late Mr. Secretary Morris, to enter the society at a time when he has
nothing else to do. If the bon ton should prove a contagious disorder among us, it will be
curious to trace its progress. I have already seen it breaking out in Dr. G----[Goldsmith]
under the form of many a waistcoat, but I believe Dr. G---- will be the last man in whom the
symptoms of it will be detected.' Garrick Corres. i. 613. In less than a month poor Goldsmith
was dead. Fox, just before his election to the club, had received through one of the doorkeepers
of the House of Commons the following note:--'SIR,--His Majesty has thought proper to order
a new commission of the Treasury to be made out, in which I do not perceive your name. NORTH.'

[807] See Boswell's answer, post, May 12.

[808] See post, April 16, 1775.

[809] See ante, i. 122, note 2.

[810] Iona.

[811] 'I was induced,' he says, 'to undertake the journey by finding in Mr. Boswell a companion,
whose acuteness would help my inquiry, and whose gaiety of conversation and civility of manners
are sufficient to counteract the inconveniences of travel in countries less hospitable than
we have passed.' Quoted by Boswell in his Hebrides, Aug. 18, 1773.

[812] See post, Nov. 16, 1776.

[813] Boswell wrote to Temple on May 8, 1779:--'I think Dr. Johnson never answered but three
of my letters, though I have had numerous returns from him.' Letters of Boswell. See post,
Sept. 29, 1777.

[814] Dr. Goldsmith died April 4, this year. BOSWELL. Boswell wrote to Garrick on April 11,
1774:--'Dr. Goldsmith's death would affect all the club much. I have not been so much affected
with any event that has happened of a long time. I wish you would give me, who am at a distance,
some particulars with regard to his last appearance.' Garrick Corres. i. 622.

[815] See ante, p. 265.

[816] See ante, ii. 27, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 29, 1773.

[817] These books Dr. Johnson presented to the Bodleian Library, BOSWELL.

[818] On the cover enclosing them, Dr. Johnson wrote, 'If my delay has given any reason for
supposing that I have not a very deep sense of the honour done me by asking my judgement, I
am very sorry.' BOSWELL.

[819] See post, March 20, 1776.

[820] 'Sir Joshua was much affected by the death of Goldsmith, to whom he had been a very sincere
friend. He did not touch the pencil for that day, a circumstance most extraordinary for him
who passed no day without a line. Northcote's Reynolds, i. 325.

[821] He owed his tailor L79, though he had paid him L110 in 1773. In this payment was included
L35 for his nephew's clothes. We find such entries in his own bills as--'To Tyrian bloom satin
grain and, garter blue silk beeches 8L 2s. 7d. To Queen's-blue dress suit 11L 17s. 0d. To your
blue velvet suit 21L 10s. 9d.' (See ante, ii. 83.) Filby's son said to Mr. Prior:--'My father
attributed no blame to Goldsmith; he had been a good customer, and had he lived would have
paid every farthing.' Prior's Goldsmith, ii. 232.

[822] 'Soon after Goldsmith's death certain persons dining with Sir Joshua commented rather
freely on some part of his works, which, in their opinion, neither discovered talent nor originality.
To this Dr. Johnson listened in his usual growling manner; when, at length, his patience being
exhausted, he rose with great dignity, looked them full in the face, and exclaimed, "If nobody
was suffered to abuse poor Goldy, but those who could write as well, he would have few censors."'
Northcote's Reynolds, i. 327. To Goldsmith might be applied the words that Johnson wrote of
Savage (Works, viii. 191):--'Vanity may surely be readily pardoned in him to whom life afforded
no other comforts than barren praises, and the consciousness of deserving them. Those are no
proper judges of his conduct who have slumbered away their time on the down of plenty; nor
will any wise man presume to say, "Had I been in Savage's condition, I should have lived or
written better than Savage."'

[823] Mrs. Thrale's mother died the summer before (ante, p. 263). Most of her children died
early. By 1777 she had lost seven out of eleven. Post, May 3, 1777.

[824] Johnson had not seen Langton since early in the summer of 1773. He was then suffering
from a fever and an inflammation in the eye, for which he was twice copiously bled. (Pr. and
Med. 130.) The following winter he was distressed by a cough. (Ib p. 135.) Neither of these
illnesses was severe enough to be called dreadful. In the spring of 1770 he was very ill. (Ib
p. 93.) On Sept. 18, 1771, he records:--'For the last year I have been slowly recovering from
the violence of my last illness.' (Ib p. 104.) On April 18, 1772, in reviewing the last year,
he writes:--'An unpleasing incident is almost certain to hinder my rest; this is the remainder
of my last illness.' (Ib p. iii.) In the winter of 1772-3, he suffered from a cough. (Ib p.
121.) I think that he must mean the illness of 1770, though it is to be noticed that he wrote
to Boswell on July 5, 1773:--'Except this eye [the inflamed eye] I am very well.' (Ante, p. 264.)

[825] 'Lord have mercy upon us.'

[826] See Johnson's Works, i. 172, for his Latin version. D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature,
ed. 1834, vi. 368) says 'that Oldys [ante, i. 175] always asserted that he was the author of
this song, and as he was a rigid lover of truth I doubt not that he wrote it. I have traced
it through a dozen of collections since the year 1740, the first in which I find it.'

[827] Mr. Seward (Anec, ii. 466) gives the following version of these lines:

'Whoe'er thou art with reverence tread Where Goldsmith's letter'd dust is laid. If nature and
the historic page, If the sweet muse thy care engage. Lament him dead whose powerful mind Their
various energies combined.'

[828] See ante, p. 265.

[829] At Lleweney, the house of Mrs. Thrale's cousin, Mr. Cotton, Dr. Johnson stayed nearly
three weeks. Johnson's Journey into North Wales, July 28, 1774. Mr. Fitzmaurice, Lord Shelburne's
brother, had a house there in 1780; for Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on May 7 of that year:--'He
has almost made me promise to pass part of the summer at Llewenny.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 113.

[830] Lord Hailes was Sir David Dalrymple. See ante, i. 267. He is not to be confounded with
Sir John Dalrymple, mentioned ante, ii. 210.

[831]

E'en in a bishop I can spy desert; Seeker is decent, Rundel has a heart.'

Pope's Epilogue to the Satires, ii. 70.

[832] In the first two editions forenoon. Boswell, in three other passages, made the same change
in the third edition. Forenoon perhaps he considered a Scotticism. The correction above being
made in one of his letters, renders it likely that he corrected them before publication.

[833] Horace, Ars Poet. l. 373.

[834] 'Do not you long to hear the roarings of the old lion over the bleak mountains of the
North?' wrote Steevens to Garrick. Garrick Corres, ii. 122.

[835] 'Aug. 16. We came to Penmanmaur by daylight, and found a way, lately made, very easy
and very safe. It was cut smooth and enclosed between parallel walls; the outer of which secures
the passenger from the precipice, which is deep and dreadful.... The sea beats at the bottom
of the way. At evening the moon shone eminently bright: and our thoughts of danger being now
past, the rest of our journey was very pleasant. At an hour somewhat late we came to Bangor,
where we found a very mean inn, and had some difficulty to obtain lodging. I lay in a room
where the other bed had two men.' Johnson's Journey into North Wales.

[836] He did not go to the top of Snowdon. He says:--'On the side of Snowdon are the remains
of a large fort, to which we climbed with great labour. I was breathless and harassed,' Ib Aug. 26.

[837] I had written to him, to request his interposition in behalf of a convict, who I thought
was very unjustly condemned. BOSWELL.

[838] He had kept a journal which was edited by Mr. Duppa in 1816. It will be found post, in
vol. v.

[839] 'When the general election broke up the delightful society in which we had spent some
time at Beconsfield, Dr. Johnson shook the hospitable master of the house [Burke] kindly by
the hand, and said, "Farewell my dear Sir, and remember that I wish you all the success which
ought to be wished you, which can possibly be wished you indeed--by an honest man."' Piozzi's
Anec. p. 242. The dissolution was on Sept. 30. Johnson, with the Thrales, as his Journal shows,
had arrived at Beconsfield on the 24th. See ante, ii. 222, for Johnson's opinion of Burke's
honesty.

[840] Mr. Perkins was for a number of years the worthy superintendant of Mr. Thrale's great
brewery, and after his death became one of the proprietors of it; and now resides in Mr. Thrale's
house in Southwark, which was the scene of so many literary meetings, and in which he continues
the liberal hospitality for which it was eminent. Dr. Johnson esteemed him much. He hung up
in the counting-house a fine proof of the admirable mizzotinto of Dr. Johnson, by Doughty;
and when Mrs. Thrale asked him somewhat flippantly, 'Why do you put him up in the counting-house?'
he answered, 'Because, Madam, I wish to have one wise man there.' 'Sir,' (said Johnson,) 'I
thank you. It is a very handsome compliment, and I believe you speak sincerely.' BOSWELL.

[841] In the news-papers. BOSWELL.

[842] 'Oct. 16, 1774. In Southwark there has been outrageous rioting; but I neither know the
candidates, their connections, nor success.' Horace Walpole's Letters, vi. 134. Of one Southwark
election Mrs. Piozzi writes (Anec. p. 214):--'A Borough election once showed me Mr. Johnson's
toleration of boisterous mirth. A rough fellow, a hatter by trade, seeing his beaver in a state
of decay seized it suddenly with one hand, and clapping him on the back with the other. "Ah,
Master Johnson," says he, "this is no time to be thinking about hats." "No, no, Sir," replies
our doctor in a cheerful tone, "hats are of no use now, as you say, except to throw up in the
air and huzza with," accompanying his words with the true election halloo.'

[843] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 19, 1773. Johnson thus mentions him (Works, ix. 142):--'Here
we had the last embrace of this amiable man, who, while these pages were preparing to attest
his virtues, perished in the passage between Ulva and Inch Kenneth.'

[844] Alluding to a passage in a letter of mine, where speaking of his Journey to the Hebrides,
I say, 'But has not The Patriot been an interruption, by the time taken to write it, and the
time luxuriously spent in listening to its applauses?' BOSWELL.

[845] We had projected a voyage together up the Baltic, and talked of visiting some of the
more northern regions. BOSWELL. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 16.

[846] See ante, i. 72.

[847] John Hoole, the son of a London watchmaker, was born in Dec. 1727, and died on Aug. 2,
1803. At the age of seventeen he was placed as a clerk in the East-India House; but, like his
successors, James and John Stuart Mill, he was an author as well as a clerk. See ante, i. 383.

[848] Cleonice. BOSWELL. Nichols (Lit. Anec. ii. 407) says that as Cleonice was a failure on
the stage 'Mr. Hoole returned a considerable part of the money which he had received for the
copy-right, alleging that, as the piece was not successful on the stage, it could not be very
profitable to the bookseller, and ought not to be a loss.'

[849] See ante, i. 255.

[850] See post, March 20, 1776.

[851] 'The King,' wrote Horace Walpole on Jan. 21, 1775 (Letters, vi. 179), 'sent for the book
in MS., and then wondering said, "I protest, Johnson seems to be a Papist and a Jacobite--so
he did not know why he had been made to give him a pension."'

[852] Boswell's little daughter. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug, 15, 1773.

[853] 'Bis dat qui cito dat, minimi gratia tarda pretii est.' Alciat's Emblems, Alciati Opera
1538, p. 821.

[854] It was at the Turk's Head coffee-house in the Strand. See ante, i. 450.

[855] Hamlet, act iii. sc. 2.

[856] 'Exegi monumentum aere perennius.' Horace, Odes, iii. 30. I.

[857] The second edition was not brought out till the year after Johnson's death. These mistakes
remain uncorrected. Johnson's Works, ix. 44. 150.

[858] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23.

[859] In the Court of Session of Scotland an action is first tried by one of the Judges, who
is called the Lord Ordinary; and if either party is dissatisfied, he may appeal to the whole
Court, consisting of fifteen, the Lord President and fourteen other Judges, who have both in
and out of Court the title of Lords, from the name of their estates; as, Lord Auchinleck, Lord
Monboddo, &c. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 201, note 1.

[860] Johnson had thus written of him (Works, ix. ll5):--'I suppose my opinion of the poems
of Ossian is already discovered. I believe they never existed in any other form than that which
we have seen. The editor, or author, never could show the original; nor can it be shown by
any other. To revenge reasonable incredulity by refusing evidence is a degree of insolence
with which the world is not yet acquainted; and stubborn audacity is the last refuge of guilt.'
See ante, ii. 126.

[861] Taxation no Tyranny. See post, under March 21, 1775.

[862] See ante, p. 265.

[863] In Tickell's Epistle from the Hon. Charles Fox to the Hon. John Townshend (1779) are
the following lines (p. 11):--

'Soon as to Brooks's thence thy footsteps bend, What gratulations thy approach attend!

See Beauclerk's cheek a tinge of red surprise, And friendship give what cruel health denies.'

[864] It should be recollected, that this fanciful description of his friend was given by Johnson
after he himself had become a water-drinker. BOSWELL. Johnson, post, April 18, 1775, describes
one of his friends as muddy. On April 12, 1776, in a discussion about wine, when Reynolds said
to him, 'You have sat by, quite sober, and felt an envy of the happiness of those who were
drinking,' he replied, 'Perhaps, contempt.' On April 28, 1778, he said to Reynolds: 'I won't
argue any more with you, Sir. You are too far gone.' See also ante, i. 313, note 3, where he
said to him: 'Sir, I did not count your glasses of wine, why should you number up my cups of tea?'

[865] See them in Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 337 [Oct. 17]. BOSWELL.

[866] He now sent me a Latin inscription for my historical picture of Mary Queen of Scots,
and afterwards favoured me with an English translation. Mr. Alderman Boydell, that eminent
Patron of the Arts, has subjoined them to the engraving from my picture.

  'Maria Scotorum Regina
   Homimun seditiosorum
   Contumeliis lassata,
Minis territa, clamoribus victa
     Libello, per quem
       Regno cedit,
   Lacrimans trepidansque
      Nomen apponit?'

    'Mary Queen of Scots,
Harassed, terrified, and overpowered
    By the insults, menaces,
       And clamours
    Of her rebellious subjects,
        Sets her hand,
     With tears and confusion,
  To a resignation of the kingdom.'

BOSWELL.

Northcote (Life of Reynolds, ii. 234) calls Boydell 'the truest and greatest encourager of
English art that England ever saw.'

[867] By the Boston Port-Bill, passed in 1774, Boston had been closed as a port for the landing
and shipping of goods. Ann. Reg. xvii. 64.

[868] Becket, a bookseller in the Strand, was the publisher of Ossian.

[869] His Lordship, notwithstanding his resolution, did commit his sentiments to paper, and
in one of his notes affixed to his Collection of Old Scottish Poetry, he says, that 'to doubt
the authenticity of those poems is a refinement in Scepticism indeed.' J. BLAKEWAY.

[870] Mr. Croker writes (Croker's Boswell, p. 378, note):--'The original draft of these verses
in Johnson's autograph is now before me. He had first written:--

'Sunt pro legitimis pectora pura sacris;'

he then wrote--

'Legitimas faciunt pura labella preces;'

which more nearly approaches Mr. Boswell's version, and alludes, happily I think, to the prayers
having been read by the young lady.... The line as it stands in the Works [Sint pro legitimis
pura labella sacris, i. 167], is substituted in Mr. Langton's hand.... As I have reason to
believe that Mr. Langton assisted in editing these Latin poemata, I conclude that these alterations
were his own.'

[871] The learned and worthy Dr. Lawrence, whom Dr. Johnson respected and loved as his physician
and friend. BOSWELL. 'Dr. Lawrence was descended, as Sir Egerton Brydges informs me, from Milton's
friend ['Lawrence, of virtuous father virtuous son.' Milton's Sonnets, xx.]. One of his sons
was Sir Soulden Lawrence, one of the Judges of the King's Bench.' Croker's Boswell, p. 734.
See post, March 19, 1782.

[872] My friend has, in this letter, relied upon my testimony, with a confidence, of which
the ground has escaped my recollection. BOSWELL. Lord Shelburne said: 'Like the generality
of Scotch, Lord Mansfield had no regard to truth whatever.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 89.

[873] Dr. Lawrence. See Johnson's letter to Warren Hastings of Dec. 20, 1774. Post, beginning
of 1781.

[874] I have deposited it in the British Museum. BOSWELL. Mr. P. Cunningham says:--'Of all
the MSS. which Boswell says he had deposited in the British Museum, only the copy of the letter
to Lord Chesterfield has been found, and that was not deposited by him, but after his death,
"pursuant to the intentions of the late James Boswell, Esq."' Croker's Boswell, p. 430. The
original letter to Macpherson was sold in Mr. Pocock's collection in 1875. It fetched L50,
almost five times as much as Johnson was paid for his London. It differs from the copy, if
we can trust the auctioneer's catalogue, where the following passage is quoted:--'Mr. James
Macpherson, I received your foolish and impudent note. Whatever insult is offered me, I will
do my best to repel, and what I cannot do for myself the law shall do for me. I will not desist
from detecting what I think a cheat from any fear of the menaces of a Ruffian.'

[875] In the Gent. Mag. for 1773, p. 192, is announced: 'The Iliad of Homer. Translated by
James Macpherson, Esq., 2 vols. 4to. L2 2s. Becket.' Hume writes:--'Finding the style of his
Ossian admired by some, he attempts a translation of Homer in the very same style. He begins
and finishes in six weeks a work that was for ever to eclipse the translation of Pope, whom
he does not even deign to mention in his preface; but this joke was still more unsuccessful
[than his History of Britain].' J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 478. Hume says of him, that he had
'scarce ever known a man more perverse and unamiable.' Ib p. 470.

[876] 'Within a few feet of Johnson lies (by one of those singular coincidences in which the
Abbey abounds) his deadly enemy, James Macpherson.' Stanley's Westminster Abbey, p. 298.

[877] Hamlet, act iii. sc. I.

[878] 'Fear was indeed a sensation to which Dr. Johnson was an utter stranger, excepting when
some sudden apprehensions seized him that he was going to die.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 277. In this
respect his character might be likened to that of Fearing, in Pilgrim's Progress (Part ii),
as described by Great-Heart:--'When he came to the Hill Difficulty, he made no stick at that,
nor did he much fear the Lions; for you must know that his troubles were not about such things
as these; his fear was about his acceptance at last.'

[879] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 18, 1773.

[880] See ante, i. 249, where Garrick humorously foretold the Round-house for Johnson.

[881] See ante, ii. 95.

[882] 'It was,' writes Hawkins (Life, p. 491), 'an oak-plant of a tremendous size; a plant,
I say, and not a shoot or branch, for it had had a root which, being trimmed to the size of
a large orange, became the head of it. Its height was upwards of six feet, and from about an
inch in diameter at the lower end, increased to near three; this he kept in his bed-chamber,
so near the chair in which he constantly sat as to be within reach.' Macpherson, like Johnson,
was a big man. Dr. A. Carlyle says (Auto. p. 398):--'He was good-looking, of a large size,
with very thick legs, to hide which he generally wore boots, though not then the fashion. He
appeared to me proud and reserved.'

[883] Boswell wrote to Temple on April 4:--'Mr. Johnson has allowed me to write out a supplement
to his Journey.' Letters of Boswell, p. 186. On May 10 he wrote:--'I have not written out another
line of my remarks on the Hebrides. I found it impossible to do it in London. Besides, Dr.
Johnson does not seem very desirous that I should publish any supplement. Between ourselves,
he is not apt to encourage one to share reputation with himself.' Ib p. 192.

[884] Colonel Newcome, when a lad, 'was for ever talking of India, and the famous deeds of
Clive and Lawrence. His favourite book was a history of India--the history of Orme.' Thackeray's
Newcomes, ch. 76. See post, April 15, 1778.

[885] Richard II, act i. sc. 3. See ante, i. 129.

[886] A passage in the North Briton, No. 34, shews how wide-spread this prejudice was. The
writer gives his 'real, fair, and substantial objections to the administration of this Scot
[Lord Bute]. The first is, that he is a Scot. I am certain that reason could never believe
that a Scot was fit to have the management of English affairs. A Scot hath no more right to
preferment in England than a Hanoverian or a Hottentot.' In Humphry Clinker (Letter of July
13) we read:--'From Doncaster northwards all the windows of all the inns are scrawled with
doggrel rhymes in abuse of the Scotch nation.' Horace Walpole, writing of the contest between
the House of Commons and the city in 1771, says of the Scotch courtiers:--'The Scotch wanted
to come to blows, and were at least not sorry to see the House of Commons so contemptible.'
Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iv. 301. 'What a nation is Scotland,' he wrote at the end
of the Gordon Riots, 'in every reign engendering traitors to the State, and false and pernicious
to the kings that favour it the most.' Letters, vii. 400. See post, March 21, 1783. Lord Shelburne,
a man of a liberal mind, wrote:--'I can scarce conceive a Scotchman capable of liberality,
and capable of impartiality.' After calling them 'a sad set of innate cold-hearted, impudent
rogues,' he continues:--'It's a melancholy thing that there is no finding any other people
that will take pains, or be amenable even to the best purposes.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, iii.
441. Hume wrote to his countryman, Gilbert Elliot, in 1764:--'I do not believe there is one
Englishman in fifty, who, if he heard I had broke (sic) my neck to-night, would be sorry. Some,
because I am not a Whig; some, because I am not a Christian; and all, because I am a Scotsman.
Can you seriously talk of my continuing an Englishman? Am I, or are you, an Englishman?' Elliot
replies:--'Notwithstanding all you say, we are both Englishmen; that is, true British subjects,
entitled to every emolument and advantage that our happy constitution can bestow.' Burton's
Hume, ii. 238, 240. Hume, in his prejudice against England, went far beyond Johnson in his
prejudice against Scotland. In 1769 he wrote:--'I am delighted to see the daily and hourly
progress of madness and folly and wickedness in England. The consummation of these qualities
are the true ingredients for making a fine narrative in history, especially if followed by
some signal and ruinous convulsion--as I hope will soon be the case with that pernicious people.'
Ib p. 431. In 1770 he wrote:--'Our government has become a chimera, and is too perfect, in
point of liberty, for so rude a beast as an Englishman; who is a man, a bad animal too, corrupted
by above a century of licentiousness.' Ib p. 434.

[887] 'The love of planting,' wrote Sir Walter Scott, 'which has become almost a passion, is
much to be ascribed to Johnson's sarcasms.' Croker Corres. ii. 34. Lord Jeffrey wrote from
Watford in 1833:--'What a country this old England is. In a circle of twenty miles from this
spot (leaving out London and its suburbs), there is more old timber ... than in all Scotland.'
Cockburn's Jeffrey, i. 348. See post, March 21, 1775.

[888] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 20.

[889] Even David Hume subscribed to the fund. He wrote in 1760:--'Certain it is that these
poems are in every body's mouth in the Highlands, have been handed down from father to son,
and are of an age beyond all memory and tradition. Adam Smith told me that the Piper of the
Argyleshire militia repeated to him all those which Mr. Macpherson had translated. We have
set about a subscription of a guinea or two guineas apiece, in order to enable Mr. Macpherson
to undertake a mission into the Highlands to recover this poem, and other fragments of antiquity.'
Mason's Gray, ii. 170. Hume changed his opinion. 'On going to London,' writes Dr. A. Carlyle
(Auto. p. 276), 'he went over to the other side, and loudly affirmed the poems to be inventions
of Macpherson. I happened to say one day, when he was declaiming against Macpherson, that I
had met with nobody of his opinion but William Caddel of Cockenzie, and President Dundas, which
he took ill, and was some time of forgetting.' Gibbon, in the Decline and Fall (vol. i. ch.
6), quoted Ossian, but added:--'Something of a doubtful mist still hangs over these Highland
traditions; nor can it be entirely dispelled by the most ingenious researches of modern criticism.'
On this Hume wrote to him on March 18, 1776:--'I see you entertain a great doubt with regard
to the authenticity of the poems of Ossian.... Where a supposition is so contrary to common
sense, any positive evidence of it ought never to be regarded. Men run with great avidity to
give their evidence in favour of what flatters their passions and their national prejudices.
You are therefore over and above indulgent to us in speaking of the matter with hesitation.'
Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 225. So early as 1763 Hume had asked Dr. Blair for 'proof that these
poems were not forged within these five years by James Macpherson. These proofs must not be
arguments, but testimonies!' J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 466. Smollett, it should seem, believed
in Ossian to the end. In Humphry Clinker, in the letter dated Sept. 3, he makes one of his
characters write:--'The poems of Ossian are in every mouth. A famous antiquarian of this country,
the laird of Macfarlane, at whose house we dined, can repeat them all in the original Gaelic.'
See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 10.

[890] I find in his letters only Sir A. Macdonald (ante, ii. 157) of whom this can be said.

[891] See Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd ed. p. 520 [p. 431]. BOSWELL.

[892] For the letter, see the end of Boswell's Hebrides.

[893] Fossilist is not in Johnson's Dictionary.

[894] 'Rasay has little that can detain a traveller, except the laird and his family; but their
power wants no auxiliaries. Such a seat of hospitality amidst the winds and waters fills the
imagination with a delightful contrariety of images.' Works, ix. 62.

[895] Page 103. BOSWELL.

[896] From Skye he wrote:--'The hospitality of this remote region is like that of the golden
age. We have found ourselves treated at every house as if we came to confer a benefit.' Piozzi
Letters, i. 155.

[897] See ante, i. 443, note 2.

[898] I observed with much regret, while the first edition of this work was passing through
the press (Aug. 1790), that this ingenious gentleman was dead. BOSWELL.

[899] See ante, p. 242.

[900] See ante, i. 187.

[901] See ante, ii. 121, 296, and post, under March 30, 1783.

[902] Johnson (Works, ix. 158) says that 'the mediocrity of knowledge' obtained in the Scotch
universities, 'countenanced in general by a national combination so invidious that their friends
cannot defend it, and actuated in particulars by a spirit of enterprise so vigorous that their
enemies are constrained to praise it, enables them to find, or to make their way, to employment,
riches, and distinction.'

[903] Macpherson had great influence with the newspapers. Horace Walpole wrote in February,
1776:--'Macpherson, the Ossianite, had a pension of L600 a year from the Court, to supervise
the newspapers.' In Dec. 1781, Walpole mentions the difficulty of getting 'a vindicatory paragraph'
inserted in the papers, 'This was one of the great grievances of the time. Macpherson had a
pension of L800 a year from Court for inspecting newspapers, and inserted what lies he pleased,
and prevented whatever he disapproved of being printed.' Journal of the Reign of George III,
ii. 17, 483.

[904] This book was published in 1779 under the title of 'Remarks on Dr. Samuel Johnson's Journey
to the Hebrides, by the Rev. Donald M'Nicol, A.M., Minister of Lismore, Argyleshire.' In 1817
it was reprinted at Glasgow together with Johnson's Journey, in one volume. The Remarks are
a few pages shorter than the Journey. By 'another Scotchman,' Boswell certainly meant Macpherson.

[905] From a list in his hand-writing. BOSWELL.

[906] 'Such is the laxity of Highland conversation that the inquirer is kept in continual suspense,
and by a kind of intellectual retrogradation, knows less as he hears more.' Johnson's Works,
ix. 47. 'The Highlanders are not much accustomed to be interrogated by others, and seem never
to have thought upon interrogating themselves; so that, if they do not know what they tell
to be true, they likewise do not distinctly perceive it to be false.' Ib 114.

[907] Of his Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. BOSWELL. It was sold at five shillings
a copy. It did not reach a second edition till 1785, when perhaps a fresh demand for it was
caused by the publication of Boswell's Hebrides. Boswell, in a note, post, April 28, 1778,
says that 4000 copies were sold very quickly. Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 39) says that Cadell
told her that he had sold 4000 copies the first week. This, I think, must be an exaggeration.
A German translation was brought out this same year.

[908] Boswell, on the way to London, wrote to Temple:--'I have continual schemes of publication,
but cannot fix. I am still very unhappy with my father. We are so totally different that a
good understanding is scarcely possible. He looks on my going to London just now as an expedition,
as idle and extravagant, when in reality it is highly improving to me, considering the company
which I enjoy.' Letters of Boswell, p. 182.

[909] See post, under March 22, 1776.

[910] See ante, p. 292.

[911] 'A Scotchman must be a very sturdy moralist who does not love Scotland better than truth;
he will always love it better than inquiry; and if falsehood flatters his vanity, will not
be very diligent to detect it.' Johnson's Works, ix. 116.

[912] At Slanes Castle in Aberdeenshire he wrote:--'I had now travelled two hundred miles in
Scotland, and seen only one tree not younger than myself.' Works, ix. 17. Goldsmith wrote from
Edinburgh on Sept. 26, 1753:--'Every part of the country presents the same dismal landscape.
No grove, nor brook lend their music to cheer the stranger, or make the inhabitants forget
their poverty.' Forsters Goldsmith, i. 433.

[913] This, like his pamphlet on Falkland's Islands, was published without his name.

[914] See Appendix.

[915] Convicts were sent to nine of the American settlements. According to one estimate about
2,000 had been for many years sent annually. 'Dr. Lang, after comparing different estimates,
concludes that the number sent might be about 50,000 altogether.' Penny Cyclo. xxv. 138. X.

[916] This 'clear and settled opinion' must have been formed in three days, and between Grantham
and London. For from that Lincolnshire town he had written to Temple on March 18:--'As to American
affairs, I have really not studied the subject; it is too much for me perhaps, or I am too
indolent or frivolous. From the smattering which newspapers have given me, I have been of different
minds several times. That I am a Tory, a lover of power in monarchy, and a discourager of much
liberty in the people, I avow; but it is not clear to me that our colonies are completely our
subjects.' Letters of Boswell, p. 180. Four years later he wrote to Temple:--'I must candidly
tell you that I think you should not puzzle yourself with political speculations more than
I do; neither of us is fit for that sort of mental labour.' Ib 243. See post, Sept. 23, 1777,
for a contest between Johnson and Boswell on this subject.

[917] See ante, ii. 134.

[918] Johnson's Works, vi. 261.

[919] Four years earlier he had also attacked him. Ante, ii. 134, note 4.

[920] Lord Camden, formerly Chief Justice Pratt. See ante, ii. 72, note 3; and post, April
14, 1775.

[921] 'Our people,' wrote Franklin in 1751 (Memoirs, vi. 3, 10), 'must at least be doubled
every twenty years.' The population he reckoned at upwards of one million. Johnson referred
to this rule also in the following passage:--'We are told that the continent of North America
contains three millions, not of men merely, but of whigs, of whigs fierce for liberty and disdainful
of dominion; that they multiply with the fecundity of their own rattlesnakes, so that every
quarter of a century doubles their number.' Works, vi. 227. Burke, in his Speech of Concilitation
with America, a fortnight after Johnson's pamphlet appeared, said, 'your children do not grow
faster from infancy to manhood than they spread from families to communities, and from villages
to nations.' Payne's Burke, i. 169.

[922] Dr. T. Campbell records on April 20, 1775 (Diary, p. 74), that 'Johnson said the first
thing he would do would be to quarter the army on the cities, and if any refused free quarters,
he would pull down that person's house, if it was joined to other houses; but would burn it
if it stood alone. This and other schemes he proposed in the manuscript of Taxation no Tyranny,
but these, he said, the Ministry expunged. See post, April 15, 1778, where, talking of the
Americans, Johnson exclaimed, 'he'd burn and destroy them.' On June 11, 1781, Campbell records
(ib. p. 88) that Johnson said to him:--'Had we treated the Americans as we ought, and as they
deserved, we should have at once razed all their towns and let them enjoy their forests.' Campbell
justly describes this talk as 'wild rant.'

[923]

'He errs who deems obedience to a prince Slav'ry--a happier freedom never reigns Than with
a pious monarch.' Stit. iii. 113. CROKER.

This volume was published in 1776. The copy in the library of Pembroke College, Oxford, bears
the inscription in Johnson's hand: 'To Sir Joshua Reynolds from the Authour.' On the title-page
Sir Joshua has written his own name.

[924] R. B. Sheridan thought of joining in these attacks. In his Life by Moore (i. 151) fragments
of his projected answer are given. He intended to attack Johnson on the side of his pension.
One thought he varies three times. 'Such pamphlets,' he writes, 'will be as trifling and insincere
as the venal quit-rent of a birth-day ode.' This again appears as 'The easy quit-rent of refined
panegyric,' and yet again as 'The miserable quit-rent of an annual pamphlet.'

[925] See post, beginning of 1781.

[926] Boswell wrote to Temple on June 19, 1775:--'Yesterday I met Mr. Hume at Lord Kame's.
They joined in attacking Dr. Johnson to an absurd pitch. Mr. Hume said he would give me half-a-crown
for every page of his Dictionary in which he could not find an absurdity, if I would give him
half-a-crown for every page in which he did not find one: he talked so insolently really, that
I calmly determined to be at him; so I repeated, by way of telling that Dr. Johnson could be
touched, the admirable passage in your letter, how the Ministry had set him to write in a way
that they "could not ask even their infidel pensioner Hume to write." When Hume asked if it
was from an American, I said No, it was from an English gentleman. "Would a gentleman write
so?" said he. In short, Davy was finely punished for his treatment of my revered friend; and
he deserved it richly, both for his petulance to so great a character and for his talking so
before me.' Letters of Boswell, p. 204. Hume's pension was L400. He obtained it through Lord
Hertford, the English ambassador in Paris, under whom he had served as secretary to the embassy.
J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 289.

[927] See post, Aug. 24 1782.

[928] Dr. T. Campbell records on March 16 of this year (Diary, p. 36):--'Thrale asked Dr. Johnson
what Sir Joshua Reynolds said of Taxation no Tyranny. "Sir Joshua," quoth the Doctor, "has
not read it." "I suppose," quoth Thrale, "he has been very busy of late." "No," says the Doctor,
"but I never look at his pictures, so he won't read my writings." He asked Johnson if he had
got Miss Reynold's opinion, for she, it seems, is a politician. "As to that," quoth the Doctor,
"it is no great matter, for she could not tell after she had read it on which said of the question
Mr. Burke's speech was."'

[929] W.G. Hamilton.

[930] See post, Nov. 19, 1783.

[931] Sixteen days after this pamphlet was published, Lord North, as Chancellor of the University
of Oxford, proposed that the degree of Doctor in Civil Law should be conferred on Johnson (post,
p. 331). Perhaps the Chancellor in this was cheaply rewarding the service that had been done
to the Minister. See ante, ii. 373.

[932] Johnson's Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland, ed. 1785, p. 256. [Johnson's Works,
ix. 108.] BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 10, note 3.

[933] He had written to Temple six days earlier:--'Second sight pleases my superstition which,
you know, is not small, and being not of the gloomy but the grand species, is an enjoyment;
and I go further than Mr. Johnson, for the facts which I heard convinced me.' Letters of Boswell,
p. 179. When ten years later he published his Tour, he said (Nov. 10, 1773) that he had returned
from the Hebrides with a considerable degree of faith; 'but,' he added, 'since that time my
belief in those stories has been much weakened.'

[934] This doubt has been much agitated on both sides, I think without good reason. See Addison's
Freeholder, May 4, 1714. The Freeholder was published from Dec. 1715 to June 1716. In the number
for May 4 there is no mention of The Tale of a Tub; An Apology for the Tale of a Tub (Swift's
Works, ed. 1803, iii. 20);--Dr. Hawkesworth's Preface to Swift's Works, and Swift's Letter
to Tooke the Printer, and Tooke's Answer, in that collection;--Sheridan's Life of Swift;--Mr.
Courtenay's note on p. 3 of his Poetical Review of the Literary and Moral Character of Dr.
Johnson; and Mr. Cooksey's Essay on the Life and Character of John Lord Somers, Baron of Evesham.

Dr. Johnson here speaks only to the internal evidence. I take leave to differ from him, having
a very high estimation of the powers of Dr. Swift. His Sentiments of a Church-of-England-man,
his Sermon on the Trinity, and other serious pieces, prove his learning as well as his acuteness
in logick and metaphysicks; and his various compositions of a different cast exhibit not only
wit, humour, and ridicule; but a knowledge 'of nature, and art, and life:' a combination therefore
of those powers, when (as the Apology says,) 'the authour was young, his invention at the heighth,
and his reading fresh in his head,' might surely produce The Tale of a Tub. BOSWELL.

[935] 'His Tale of a Tub has little resemblance to his other pieces. It exhibits a vehemence
and rapidity of mind, a copiousness of images and vivacity of diction such as he afterwards
never possessed, or never exerted. It is of a mode so distinct and peculiar that it must be
considered by itself; what is true of that is not true of anything else which he has written.'
Johnson's Works, viii. 220. At the conclusion of the Life of Swift (ib. 228), Johnson allows
him one great merit:--'It was said in a preface to one of the Irish editions that Swift had
never been known to take a single thought from any writer, ancient or modern. This is not literally
true; but perhaps no writer can easily be found that has borrowed so little, or that in all
his excellencies and all his defects has so well maintained his claim to be considered as original.'
See ante, i. 452.

[936] Johnson in his Dictionary, under the article shave, quotes Swift in one example, and
in the next Gulliver's Travels, not admitting, it should seem, that Swift had written that book.

[937] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 26, 1773. David Hume wrote of Home's Agis:--'I own, though
I could perceive fine strokes in that tragedy, I never could in general bring myself to like
it: the author, I thought, had corrupted his taste by the imitation of Shakespeare, whom he
ought only to have admired.' J.H. Burton's Hume, i. 392. About Douglas he wrote:--'I am persuaded
it will be esteemed the best, and by French critics the only tragedy of our language.' Ib ii.
17. Hume perhaps admired it the more as it was written, to use his own words, 'by a namesake
of mine.' Ib i. 316. Home is pronounced Hume. He often wrote of his friend as 'Mr. John Hume,
alias Home.' A few days before his death he added the following codicil to his will:--'I leave
to my friend Mr. John Home, of Kilduff, ten dozen of my old claret at his choice; and one single
bottle of that other liquor called port. I also leave to him six dozen of port, provided that
he attests, under his hand, signed John Hume, that he has himself alone finished that bottle
at two sittings. By this concession he will at once terminate the only two differences that
ever arose between us concerning temporal matters.' Ib ii. 506. Sir Walter Scott wrote in his
Diary in 1827:--'I finished the review of John Home's works, which, after all, are poorer than
I thought them. Good blank verse, and stately sentiment, but something luke-warmish, excepting
Douglas, which is certainly a masterpiece. Even that does not stand the closet. Its merits
are for the stage; and it is certainly one of the best acting plays going.' Lockhart's Scott,
ix. 100.

[938] Sheridan, says Mr. S. Whyte (Miscellanea Nova, p. 45), brought out Douglas at the Dublin
Theatre. The first two nights it had great success. The third night was as usual to be the
author's. It had meanwhile got abroad that he was a clergyman. This play was considered a profanation,
a faction was raised, and the third night did not pay its expenses. It was Whyte who suggested
that, by way of consolation, Sheridan should give Home a gold medal. The inscription said that
he presented it to him 'for having enriched the stage with a perfect tragedy.' Whyte took the
medal to London. When he was close at his journey's end, 'I was,' he writes, 'stopped by highwaymen,
and preserved the medal by the sacrifice of my purse at the imminent peril of my life.'

[939]

'No merit now the dear Nonjuror claims, Moliere's old stubble in a moment flames.'

The Nonjuror was 'a comedy thrashed out of Moliere's Tartuffe.' The Dunciad, i. 253.

[940] See post, June 9, 1784; also Macaulay's England, ch. xiv. (ed. 1874, v. 94), for remarks
on what Johnson here says.

[941] See ante, i. 318, where his name is spelt Madden.

[942] This was not merely a cursory remark; for in his Life of Fenton he observes, 'With many
other wise and virtuous men, who at that time of discord and debate (about the beginning of
this century) consulted conscience [whether] well or ill informed, more than interest, he doubted
the legality of the government; and refusing to qualify himself for publick employment, by
taking the oaths [by the oaths] required, left the University without a degree.' This conduct
Johnson calls 'perverseness of integrity.' [Johnson's Works, viii. 54.

The question concerning the morality of taking oaths, of whatever kind, imposed by the prevailing
power at the time, rather than to be excluded from all consequence, or even any considerable
usefulness in society, has been agitated with all the acuteness of casuistry. It is related,
that he who devised the oath of abjuration, profligately boasted, that he had framed a test
which should 'damn one half of the nation, and starve the other.' Upon minds not exalted to
inflexible rectitude, or minds in which zeal for a party is predominant to excess, taking that
oath against conviction may have been palliated under the plea of necessity, or ventured upon
in heat, as upon the whole producing more good than evil.

At a county election in Scotland, many years ago, when there was a warm contest between the
friends of the Hanoverian succession, and those against it, the oath of abjuration having been
demanded, the freeholders upon one side rose to go away. Upon which a very sanguine gentleman,
one of their number, ran to the door to stop them, calling out with much earnestness, 'Stay,
stay, my friends, and let us swear the rogues out of it!' BOSWELL. Johnson, writing of the
oaths required under the Militia Bill of 1756, says:--'The frequent imposition of oaths has
almost ruined the morals of this unhappy nation, and of a nation without morals it is of small
importance who shall be king.' Lit. Mag. 1756, i. 59.

[943] Dr. Harwood sent me the following extract from the book containing the proceedings of
the corporation of Lichfield: '19th July, 1712. Agreed that Mr. Michael Johnson be, and he
is hereby elected a magistrate and brother of their incorporation; a day is given him to Thursday
next to take the oath of fidelity and allegiance, and the oath of a magistrate. Signed, &c.'--'25th
July, 1712. Mr. Johnson took the oath of allegiance and that he believed there was no transubstantiation
in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper before, &c.'--CROKER.

[944] A parody on Macbeth, act ii. sc. 2.

[945] Lord Southampton asked Bishop Watson of Llandaff 'how he was to bring up his son so as
to make him get forwards in the world. "I know of but one way," replied the Bishop; "give him
parts and poverty." "Well then," replied Lord S., "if God has given him parts, I will manage
as to the poverty."' H. C. Robinson's Diary, i. 337. Lord Eldon said that Thurlow promised
to give him a post worth about L160 a year, but he never did. 'In after life,' said Eldon,
'I inquired of him why he had not fulfilled his promise. His answer was curious:--"It would
have been your ruin. Young men are very apt to be content when they get something to live upon;
so when I saw what you were made of, I determined to break my promise to make you work;" and
I dare say he was right, for there is nothing does a young lawyer so much good as to be half
starved.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 134.

[946] In New Street, near Gough Square, in Fleet Street, whither in February 1770 the King's
printinghouse was removed from what is still called Printing House Square. CROKER. Dr. Spottiswoode,
the late President of the Royal Society, was the great-grandson of Mr. Strahan.

[947] See post, under March 30, 1783.

[948] Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor on April 8 of this year:--'I have placed young Davenport
in the greatest printing house in London, and hear no complaint of him but want of size, which
will not hinder him much. He may when he is a journeyman always get a guinea a week.' Notes
and Queries, 6th S., v. 422. Mr. Jewitt in the Gent. Mag. for Dec. 1878, gives an account of
this lad. He was the orphan son of a clergyman, a friend of the Rev. W. Langley, Master of
Ashbourne School (see post, Sept. 14, 1777). Mr. Langley asked Johnson's help 'in procuring
him a place in some eminent printing office.' Davenport wrote to Mr. Langley nearly eight years
later:--'According to your desire, I consulted Dr. Johnson about my future employment in life,
and he very laconically told me "to work hard at my trade, as others had done before me." I
told him my size and want of strength prevented me from getting so much money as other men.
"Then," replied he, "you must get as much as you can."' The boy was nearly sixteen when he
was apprenticed, and had learnt enough Latin to quote Virgil, so that there was nothing in
Johnson's speech beyond his understanding.

[949] Seven years afterwards, Johnson described this evening. Miss Monckton had told him that
he must see Mrs. Siddons. 'Well, Madam,' he answered, 'if you desire it, I will go. See her
I shall not, nor hear her; but I'll go, and that will do. The last time I was at a play, I
was ordered there by Mrs. Abington, or Mrs. Somebody, I do not well remember who; but I placed
myself in the middle of the first row of the front boxes, to show that when I was called I
came.' Mme. D' Arblay's Diary, ii. 199. At Fontainebleau he went--to a comedy (post, Oct. 19,
1775), so that it was not 'the last time he was at a play.'

[950] 'One evening in the oratorio season of 1771,' writes Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. 72), 'Mr. Johnson
went with me to Covent Garden theatre. He sat surprisingly quiet, and I flattered myself that
he was listening to the music. When we were got home he repeated these verses, which he said
he had made at the oratorio:--

"In Theatre, March 8, 1771. Tertii verso quater orbe lustri, Quid theatrales tibi, Crispe,
pompae? Quam decet canos male literates Sera voluptas! Tene mulceri fidibus canoris? Tene cantorum
modulis stupere? Tene per pictas, oculo elegante, Currere formas? Inter aequales, sine felle
liber, Codices veri studiosus inter Rectius vives. Sua quisque carpal Gaudia gratus. Lusibus
gaudet puer otiosis, Luxus oblectat juvenem theatri, At seni fluxo sapienter uti Tempore restat."'

(Works, i. 166.)

[951] Bon Ton, or High Life above Stairs, by Garrick. He made King the comedian a present of
this farce, and it was acted for the first time on his benefit-a little earlier in the month.
Murphy's Garrick, pp. 330, 332

[952] 'August, 1778. An epilogue of Mr. Garrick's to Bonduca was mentioned, and Dr. Johnson
said it was a miserable performance:--"I don't know," he said, "what is the matter with David;
I am afraid he is grown superannuated, for his prologues and epilogues used to be incomparable."'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 64.

[953] 'Scottish brethren and architects, who had bought Durham Yard, and erected a large pile
of buildings under the affected name of the Adelphi. These men, of great taste in their profession,
were attached particularly to Lord Bute and Lord Mansfield, and thus by public and private
nationality zealous politicians.' Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign of George III. iv. 173. Hume
wrote to Adam Smith in June 1772, at a time where there was 'a universal loss of credit':--'Of
all the sufferers, I am the most concerned for the Adams. But their undertakings were so vast,
that nothing could support them. They must dismiss 3000 workmen, who, comprehending the materials,
must have expended above L100,000 a year. To me the scheme of the Adelphi always appeared so
imprudent, that my wonder is how they could have gone on so long.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii,
460. Garrick lived in the Adelphi.

[954] 'Man looks aloft, and with erected eyes, Beholds his own hereditary skies.' DRYDEN, Ovid,
Meta. i. 85.

[955] Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 213) says that she was made 'the umpire in a trial of skill
between Garrick and Boswell, which could most nearly imitate Dr. Johnson's manner. I remember
I gave it for Boswell in familiar conversation, and for Garrick in reciting poetry.'

[956] 'Gesticular mimicry and buffoonery Johnson hated, and would often huff Garrick for exercising
it his presence.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 386.

[957] In the first two editions Johnson is represented as only saying, 'Davy is futile.'

[958] My noble friend Lord Pembroke said once to me at Wilton, with a happy pleasantry and
some truth, that 'Dr. Johnson's sayings would not appear so extraordinary, were it not for
his bow-wow way.' The sayings themselves are generally of sterling merit; but, doubtless, his
manner was an addition to their effect; and therefore should be attended to as much as may
be. It is necessary however, to guard those who were not acquainted with him, against overcharged
imitations or caricatures of his manner, which are frequently attempted, and many of which
are second-hand copies from the late Mr. Henderson the actor, who, though a good mimick of
some persons, did not represent Johnson correctly. BOSWELL.

[959] See 'Prosodia Rationalis; or, an Essay towards establishing the Melody and Measure of
Speech, to be expressed and perpetuated by peculiar Symbols.' London, 1779. BOSWELL.

[960] I use the phrase in score, as Dr. Johnson has explained it in his Dictionary:--'A song
in SCORE, the words with the musical notes of a song annexed.' But I understand that in scientific
property it means all the parts of a musical composition noted down in the characters by which
it is established to the eye of the skillful. BOSWELL. It was declamation that Steele pretended
to reduce to notation by new characters. This he called the melody of speech, not the harmony,
which is the term in score implies. BURNEY.

[961] Johnson, in his Life of Gray (Works, viii. 481), spoke better of him. 'What has occurred
to me from the slight inspection of his Letters, in which my understanding has engaged me,
is, that his mind had a large gap; that his curiosity was unlimited, and his judgment cultivated.'
Horace Walpole (Letters, ii 128) allowed that he was bad company. 'Sept. 3, 1748. I agree with
you most absolutely in your opinion about Gray; he is the worst company in the world. From
a melancholy turn, from living reclusely, and from a little too much dignity, he never converses
easily; all his words are measured and chosen, his writings are admirable; he himself is not
agreeable.'

[962] In the original, 'Give ample room and verge enough.' In the Life of Gray (Works, vii.
486) Johnson says that the slaughtered bards 'are called upon to "Weave the warp, and weave
the woof," perhaps with no great propriety; for it is by crossing the woof with the warp that
men weave the web or piece; and the first line was dearly bought by the admission of its wretched
correspondent, "Give ample room and verge enough." He has, however, no other line as bad.'
See ante, i. 402.

[963] This word, which is in the first edition, is not in the second or third.

[964] 'The Church-yard abounds with images which find a mirror in every mind, and with sentiments
to which every bosom returns an echo. The four stanzas, beginning "Yet even these bones," are
to me original. I have never seen the notions in any other place; yet he that reads them here
persuades himself that he has always felt them. Had Gray written often thus, it had been vain
to blame, and useless to praise him.' Works, viii. 487. Goldsmith, in his Life of Parnell (Misc.
Works, iv. 25), thus seems to sneer at The Elegy:--'The Night Piece on death deserves every
praise, and, I should suppose, with very little amendment, might be made to surpass all those
night pieces and church-yard scenes that have since appeared.'

[965] Mr. Croker says, 'no doubt Lady Susan Fox who, in 1773, married Mr. William O'Brien,
an actor.' It was in 1764 that she was married, so that it is not likely that she was the subject
of this talk. See Horace Valpole's Letters, iv. 221.

[966] Mrs. Thrale's marriage with Mr. Piozzi.

[967] See ante, i. 408.

[968] Boswell was of the same way of thinking as Squire Western, who 'did indeed consider a
parity of fortune and circumstances to be physically as necessary an ingredient in marriage
as difference of sexes, or any other essential; and had no more apprehension of his daughter
falling in love with a poor man than with any animal of a different species.' Tom Jones, bk.
vi. ch. 9.

[969]

'Temptanda via est, qua me quoque possim Tollere humo victorque virum volitare per ora.' 'New
ways I must attempt, my grovelling name To raise aloft, and wing my flight to fame.'

DRYDEN, Virgil, Georg. iii. 9. 'Chesterfield was at once the most distinguished orator in the
Upper House, and the undisputed sovereign of wit and fashion. He held this eminence for about
forty years. At last it became the regular custom of the higher circles to laugh whenever he
opened his mouth, without waiting for his bon mot. He used to sit at White's, with a circle
of young men of rank around him, applauding every syllable that he uttered.' Macaulay's Life,
i. 325.

[970] With the Literary Club, as is shewn by Boswell's letter of April 4, 1775, in which he
says:--'I dine on Friday at the Turk's Head, Gerrard Street, with our Club, who now dine once
a month, and sup every Friday.' Letters of Boswell, p. 186. The meeting of Friday, March 24,
is described ante, p. 318, and that of April 7, post, p. 345.

[971] Very likely Boswell (ante, ii. 84, note 3).

[972] In the Garrick Corres. (ii. 141) is a letter dated March 4, 1776, from (to use Garrick's
own words) 'that worst of bad women, Mrs. Abington, to ask my playing for her benefit.' It
is endorsed by Garrick:--'A copy of Mother Abington's Letter about leaving the stage.'

[973] Twenty years earlier he had recommended to Miss Boothby as a remedy for indigestion dried
orange-peel finely powdered, taken in a glass of hot red port. 'I would not,' he adds, 'have
you offer it to the Doctor as my medicine. Physicians do not love intruders.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 397. See post, April 18, 1783.

[974] The misprint of Chancellor for Gentlemen is found in both the second and third editions.
It is not in the first.

[975] Extracted from the Convocation Register, Oxford. BOSWELL.

[976] The original is in my possession. He shewed me the Diploma, and allowed me to read it,
but would not consent to my taking a copy of it, fearing perhaps that I should blaze it abroad
in his life-time. His objection to this appears from his 99th letter to Mrs. Thrale, whom in
that letter he thus scolds for the grossness of her flattery of him:--'The other Oxford news
is, that they have sent me a degree of Doctor of Laws, with such praises in the Diploma as
perhaps ought to make me ashamed: they are very like your praises. I wonder whether I shall
ever shew it [them in the original] to you.'

It is remarkable that he never, so far as I know, assumed his title of Doctor, but called himself
Mr. Johnson, as appears from many of his cards or notes to myself; and I have seen many from
him to other persons, in which he uniformly takes that designation. I once observed on his
table a letter directed to him with the addition of Esquire, and objected to it as being a
designation inferiour to that of Doctor; but he checked me, and seemed pleased with it, because,
as I conjectured, he liked to be sometimes taken out of the class of literary men, and to be
merely genteel,--un gentilhomme comme un autre. Boswell. See post, March 30, 1781, where Johnson
applies the title to himself in speaking, and April 13, 1784, where he does in writing, and
Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773, note.

[977] 'To make a man pleased with himself, let me tell you, is doing a very great thing.' Post,
April 28, 1778.

[978] 'The original is in the hands of Dr. Forthergril, then Vice-Chancellor, who made this
transcript.' T. WARTON--BOSWELL.

[979] Bruce, the Abyssinian traveller, as is shewn by Piozzi Letters, i. 213.

[980] 'That the design [of the Dunciad] was moral, whatever the author might tell either his
readers or himself, I am not convinced. The first motive was the desire of revenging the contempt
with which Theobald had treated his Shakespeare and regaining the honour which he had lost,
by crushing his opponent.' Johnson's Works, viii. 338.

[981]

'Daughter of Chaos and old Night, Cimmerian Muse, all hail! That wrapt in never-twinkling gloom
canst write, And shadowest meaning with thy dusky veil! What Poet sings and strikes the strings?
It was the mighty Theban spoke. He from the ever-living lyre With magic hand elicits fire.
Heard ye the din of modern rhymers bray? It was cool M-n; or warm G-y, Involv'd in tenfold smoke.'

Colman's Prose on Several Occasions, ii. 273.

[982] 'These Odes,' writes Colman, 'were a piece of boys' play with my schoolfellow Lloyd,
with whom they were written in concert.' Ib i. xi. In the Connoisseur (ante, i. 420) they had
also written in concert. 'Their humour and their talents were well adapted to what they had
undertaken; and Beaumont and Fletcher present what is probably the only parallel instance of
literary co-operation so complete, that the portions written by the respective parties are
undistinguishable.' Southey's Cowper, i. 47.

[983] Ante, i. 402.

[984] Boswell writing to Temple two days later, recalled the time 'when you and I sat up all
night at Cambridge and read Gray with a noble enthusiasm; when we first used to read Mason's
Elfrida, and when we talked of that elegant knot of worthies, Gray, Mason, Walpole, &c.' Letters
of Boswell, p. 185.

[985] 'I have heard Mr. Johnson relate how he used to sit in some coffee-house at Oxford, and
turn M----'s C-r-ct-u-s into ridicule for the diversion of himself and of chance comers-in.
"The Elf--da," says he, "was too exquisitely pretty; I could make no fun out of that."' Piozzi's
Anec. p. 37. I doubt whether Johnson used the word fun, which he describes in his Dictionary
as 'a low cant [slang] word.'

[986] See post, March 26, 1779, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 1, and under Nov. 11, 1773. According
to Dr. T. Campbell (Diary, p. 36), Johnson, on March 16, had said that Taxation no Tyranny
did not sell.

[987] Six days later he wrote to Dr. Taylor:--'The patriots pelt me with answers. Four pamphlets,
I think, already, besides newspapers and reviews, have been discharged against me. I have tried
to read two of them, but did not go through them.' Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 422.

[988] 'Mrs. Macaulay,' says Mr. Croker, who quotes Johnson's Works, vi. 258, where she is described
as 'a female patriot bewailing the miseries of her friends and fellow-citizens.' See ante, i. 447.

[989] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773, and post, Sept. 24, 1777, for another landlord's
account of Johnson.

[990] From Dryden's lines on Milton.

[991] Horace Walpole wrote, on Jan. 15, 1775 (Letters, vi. 171):--'They [the Millers] hold
a Parnassus-fair every Thursday, give out rhymes and themes, and all the flux of quality at
Bath contend for the prizes. A Roman Vase, dressed with pink ribands and myrtles, receives
the poetry, which is drawn out every festival: six judges of these Olympic games retire and
select the brightest compositions, which the respective successful acknowledge, kneel to Mrs.
Calliope Miller, kiss her fair hand, and are crowned by it with myrtle, with--I don't know what.'

[992] Miss Burney wrote, in 1780:--'Do you know now that, notwithstanding Bath-Easton is so
much laughed at in London, nothing here is more tonish than to visit Lady Miller. She is a
round, plump, coarse-looking dame of about forty, and while all her aim is to appear an elegant
woman of fashion, all her success is to seem an ordinary woman in very common life, with fine
clothes on.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 364.

[993] 'Yes, on my faith, there are bouts-rimes on a buttered muffin, made by her Grace the
Duchess of Northumberland.' Walpole's Letters, vi. 171. 'She was,' Walpole writes, 'a jovial
heap of contradictions. She was familiar with the mob, while stifled with diamonds; and yet
was attentive to the most minute privileges of her rank, while almost shaking hands with a
cobbler.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 419. Dr. Percy showed her Goldsmith's ballad
of Edwin and Angelina in MS., and she had a few copies privately printed. Forster's Goldsmith,
i. 379.

[994] Perhaps Mr. Seward, who was something of a literary man, and who visited Bath (post,
under March 30, 1783).

[995]

'--rerum Fluctibus in mediis et tempestatibus urbis.'

Horace, Epistles, ii. 2. 84. See ante, i. 461.

[996]

'Qui semel adspexit quantum dimissa petitis Praestent, mature redeat repetatque relicta.'

Horace, Epistles, i. 7. 96.

'To his first state let him return with speed, Who sees how far the joys he left exceed His
present choice.' FRANCIS.

Malone says that 'Walpole, after he ceased to be minister, endeavoured to amuse his mind with
reading. But one day when Mr. Welbore Ellis was in his library, he heard him say, with tears
in his eyes, after having taken up several books and at last thrown away a folio just taken
down from a shelf, "Alas! it is all in vain; I cannot read."' Prior's Malone, p. 379. Lord
Eldon, after his retirement, said to an inn-keeper who was thinking of giving up business:--'Believe
me, for I speak from experience, when a man who has been much occupied through life arrives
at having nothing to do, he is very apt not to know what to do with himself.' Later on, he
said:--'It was advice given by me in the spirit of that Principal of Brasenose, who, when he
took leave of young men quitting college, used to say to them, "Let me give you one piece of
advice, Cave de resignationibus." And very good advice too.' Twiss's Eldon, iii. 246.

[997] See post, April 10, 1775. He had but lately begun to visit London. 'Such was his constant
apprehension of the small-pox, that he lived for twenty years within twenty miles of London,
without visiting it more than once.' At the age of thirty-five he was inoculated, and henceforth
was oftener in town. Campbell's British Poets, p. 569.

[998] Mr. S. Raymond, Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, published in Sydney
in 1854 the Diary of a Visit to England in 1775. by an Irishman (The Rev. Dr. Thomas Campbell,)
with Notes. The MS., the editor says, was discovered behind an old press in one of the offices
of his Court. The name of the writer nowhere appears in the MS. It is clear, however, that
if it is not a forgery, the author was Campbell. In the Edinburgh Review for Oct., 1859, its
authenticity is examined, and is declared to be beyond a doubt. Lord Macaulay aided the Reviewer
in his investigation. Ib p. 323. He could scarcely, however, have come to his task with a mind
altogether free from bias, for the editor 'has contrived,' we are told, 'to expose another
of Mr. Croker's blunders.' Faith in him cannot be wrong who proves that Croker is not in the
right. The value of this Diary is rated too highly by the Reviewer. The Master of Balliol College
has pointed out to me that it adds but very little to Johnson's sayings. So far as he is concerned,
we are told scarcely anything of mark that we did not know already. This makes the Master doubt
its genuineness. I have noticed one suspicious passage. An account is given of a dinner at
Mr. Thrale's on April 1, at which Campbell met Murphy, Boswell, and Baretti. 'Johnson's bons
mots were retailed in such plenty that they, like a surfeit, could not lie upon my memory.'
In one of the stories told by Murphy, Johnson is made to say, 'Damn the rascal.' Murphy would
as soon have made the Archbishop of Canterbury swear as Johnson; much sooner the Archbishop
of York. Even supposing that at this time he was ignorant of his character, though the supposition
is a wild one, he would at once have been set right by Boswell and the Thrales (post, under
March 15, 1776). It is curious, that this anecdote imputing profanity to Johnson is not quoted
by the Edinburgh reviewer. On the whole I think that the Diary is genuine, and accordingly
I have quoted it more than once.

[999] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 173) says that Johnson spoke of Browne as 'of all conversers the
most delightful with whom he ever was in company.' Pope's bathos, in his lines to Murray:--

'Graced as thou art with all the power of words, So known, so honoured, at the House of Lords,'

was happily parodied by Browne:--

'Persuasion tips his tongue whene'er he talks, And he has chambers in the King's Bench Walks.'

Pattison's Satires of Pope, pp. 57, 134. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 5.

[1000] Horace Walpole says of Beckford's Bribery Bill of 1768:--'Grenville, to flatter the
country gentlemen, who can ill afford to combat with great lords, nabobs, commissaries, and
West Indians, declaimed in favour of the bill.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iii. 159.

[1001] See ante, ii. 167, where he said much the same. Another day, however, he agreed that
a landlord ought to give leases to his tenants, and not 'wish to keep them in a wretched dependance
on his will. "It is a man's duty," he said, "to extend comfort and security among as many people
as he can. He should not wish to have his tenants mere Ephemerae--mere beings of an hour."'
Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 10, 1773.

[1002] 'Thomas Hickey is now best remembered by a characteristic portrait of his friend Tom
Davies, engraved with Hickey's name to it.' P. CUNNINGHAM.

[1003] See ante, ii. 92. In the Life of Pope (Works, viii. 302), Johnson says that 'the shafts
of satire were directed in vain against Cibber, being repelled by his impenetrable impudence.'
Pope speaks of Gibber's 'impenetrability.' Elwin's Pope, ix. 231.

[1004] He alludes perhaps to a note on the Dunciad, ii, 140, in which it is stated that 'the
author has celebrated even Cibber himself (presuming him to be the author of the Careless Husband).'
See post, May 15, 1776, note.

[1005] See ante, ii. 32.

[1006] Burke told Malone that 'Hume, in compiling his History, did not give himself a great
deal of trouble in examining records, &c.; and that the part he most laboured at was the reign
of King Charles II, for whom he had an unaccountable partiality.' Prior's Malone, p. 368.

[1007] Yet Johnson (Works, vii. 177) wrote of Otway, who was nine years old when Charles II.
came to the throne, and who outlived him by only a few weeks:--'He had what was in those times
the common reward of loyalty; he lived and died neglected.' Hawkins (Life, p. 51) says that
he heard Johnson 'speak of Dr. Hodges who, in the height of the Great Plague of 1665, continued
in London, and was almost the only one of his profession that had the courage to oppose his
art to the spreading of the contagion. It was his hard fate, a short time after, to die in
prison for debt in Ludgate. Johnson related this to us with the tears ready to start from his
eyes; and, with great energy, said, "Such a man would not have been suffered to perish in these
times."'

[1008] Johnson in 1742 said that William III. 'was arbitrary, insolent, gloomy, rapacious,
and brutal; that he was at all times disposed to play the tyrant; that he had, neither in great
things nor in small, the manners of a gentleman; that he was capable of gaining money by mean
artifices, and that he only regarded his promise when it was his interest to keep it.' Works,
vi. 6. Nearly forty years later, in his Life of Rowe (ib. vii. 408), he aimed a fine stroke
at that King. 'The fashion of the time,' he wrote, 'was to accumulate upon Lewis all that can
raise horrour and detestation; and whatever good was withheld from him, that it might not be
thrown away, was bestowed upon King William.' Yet in the Life of Prior (ib. viii. 4) he allowed
him great merit. 'His whole life had been action, and none ever denied him the resplendent
qualities of steady resolution and personal courage.' See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 24, 1773.

[1009] 'The fact of suppressing the will is indubitably true,' wrote Horace Walpole (Letters,
vii. 142). 'When the news arrived of the death of George I, my father carried the account from
Lord Townshend to the then Prince of Wales. The Council met as soon as possible. There Archbishop
Wake, with whom one copy of the will had been deposited, advanced, and delivered the will to
the King, who put it into his pocket, and went out of Council without opening it, the Archbishop
not having courage or presence of mind to desire it to be read, as he ought to have done. I
was once talking to the late Lady Suffolk, the former mistress, on that extraordinary event.
She said, "I cannot justify the deed to the legatees; but towards his father, the late King
was justifiable, for George I. had burnt two wills made in favour of George II."'

[1010] 'Charles II. by his affability and politeness made himself the idol of the nation, which
he betrayed and sold.' Johnson's Works, vi. 7.

[1011] 'It was maliciously circulated that George was indifferent to his own succession, and
scarcely willing to stretch out a hand to grasp the crown within his reach.' Coxe's Memoirs
of Walpole, i. 57.

[1012] Plin. Epist. lib. ii. ep. 3. BOSWELL.

[1013] Mr. Davies was here mistaken. Corelli never was in England. BURNEY.

[1014] Mr. Croker is wrong in saying that the Irishman in Mrs. Thrale's letter of May 16, 1776
(Piozzi Letters, i. 329), is Dr. Campbell. The man mentioned there had never met Johnson, though
she wrote more than a year after this dinner at Davies's. She certainly quotes one of 'Dr.
C-l's phrases,' but she might also have quoted Shakspeare. I have no doubt that Mrs. Thrale's
Irishman was a Mr. Musgrave (post, under June 16, 1784, note), who is humorously described
in Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 83. Since writing this note I have seen that the Edinburgh reviewer
(Oct. 1859, p. 326) had come to the same conclusion.

[1015] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 26, 1773, where Johnson said that 'he did not approve of
a Judge's calling himself Farmer Burnett, and going about with a little round hat.'

[1016] 'If all the employments of life were crowded into the time which it [sic] really occupied,
perhaps a few weeks, days, or hours would be sufficient for its accomplishment, so far as the
mind was engaged in the performance.' The Rambler, No. 8.

[1017] Johnson certainly did, who had a mind stored with knowledge, and teeming with imagery:
but the observation is not applicable to writers in general. BOSWELL. See post, April 20, 1783.

[1018] See ante, i. 358.

[1019] See ante, i. 306.

[1020] There has probably been some mistake as to the terms of this supposed extraordinary
contract, the recital of which from hearsay afforded Johnson so much play for his sportive
acuteness. Or if it was worded as he supposed, it is so strange that I should conclude it was
a joke. Mr. Gardner, I am assured, was a worthy and a liberal man. BOSWELL. Thurlow, when Attorney-General,
had been counsel for the Donaldsons, in the appeal before the House of Lords on the Right of
Literary Property (ante, i. 437, and ii. 272). In his argument 'he observed (exemplifying his
observations by several cases) that the booksellers had not till lately ever concerned themselves
about authors.' Gent. Mag. for 1774, p. 51.

[1021] 'The booksellers of London are denominated the trade' (post, April 15, 1778, note).

[1022] Bibliopole is not in Johnson's Dictionary.

[1023] The Literary Club. See ante, p. 330, note 1. Mr. Croker says that the records of the
Club show that, after the first few years, Johnson very rarely attended, and that he and Boswell
never met there above seven or eight times. It may be observed, he adds, how very rarely Boswell
records the conversation at the club, Except in one instance (post, April, 3, 1778), he says,
Boswell confines his report to what Johnson or himself may have said. That this is not strictly
true is shewn by his report of the dinner recorded above, where we find reported remarks of
Beauclerk and Gibbon. Seven meetings besides this are mentioned by Boswell. See ante, ii. 240,
255, 318, 330; and post, April 3, 1778, April 16, 1779, and June 22, 1784. Of all but the last
there is some report, however brief, of something said. When Johnson was not present, Boswell
would have nothing to record in this book.

[1024] Travels through Germany, &c., 1756-7.

[1025] Travels through Holland, &c. Translated from the French, 1743.

[1026] See post, March 24, 1776, and May 17, 1778.

[1027] Description of the East, 1743-5.

[1028] Johnson had made the same remark, and Boswell had mentioned Leandro Alberti, when they
were talking in an inn in the Island of Mull. Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14, 1773.

[1029] Addison does not mention where this epitaph, which has eluded a very diligent inquiry,
is found. MALONE. I have found it quoted in old Howell. 'The Italian saying may be well applied
to poor England:--"I was well--would be better--took physic--and died."' Lett. Jan. 20, 1647.
CROKER. It is quoted by Addison in The Spectator, No. 25:--'This letter puts me in mind of
an Italian epitaph written on the monument of a Valetudinarian: Stavo ben, ma per star meglio
sto qui, which it is impossible to translate.'

[1030] Lord Chesterfield, as Mr. Croker points out, makes the same observation in one of his
Letters to his Son (ii. 351). Boswell, however, does not get it from him, for he had said the
same in the Hebrides, six months before the publication of Chesterfield's Letters. Addison,
in the preface to his Remarks, says:--'Before I entered on my voyage I took care to refresh
my memory among the classic authors, and to make such collections out of them as I might afterwards
have occasion for.'

[1031] See ante, ii. 156.

[1032] 'It made an impression on the army that cannot be well imagined by those who saw it
not. The whole army, and at last all people both in city and country were singing it perpetually,
and perhaps never had so slight a thing so great an effect.' Bumet's Own Time, ed. 1818, ii.
430. In Tristram Shandy, vol. i. chap. 21, when Mr. Shandy advanced one of his hypotheses:--'My
uncle Toby,' we read, 'would never offer to answer this by any other kind of argument than
that of whistling half-a-dozen bars of Lilliburlero.'

[1033] See ante, ii. 66.

[1034] 'Of Gibbon, Mackintosh neatly remarked that he might have been cut out of a corner of
Burke's mind, without his missing it.' Life of Mackintosh, i. 92. It is worthy of notice that
Gibbon scarcely mentions Johnson in his writings. Moreover, in the names that he gives of the
members of the Literary Club, 'who form a large and luminous constellation of British stars,'
though he mentions eighteen of them, he passes over Boswell. Gibbon's Misc. Works, i.219. See
also post, April 18, 1775.

[1035] We may compare with this Dryden's line:--

'Usurped a patriot's all-atoning name.'

Absalom and Achitophel, l. 179. Hawkins (Life, p. 506) says that 'to party opposition Johnson
ever expressed great aversion, and of the pretences of patriots always spoke with indignation
and contempt.' He had, Hawkins adds, 'partaken of the short-lived joy that infatuated the public'
when Walpole fell; but a few days convinced him that the patriotism of the opposition had been
either hatred or ambition. For patriots, see ante, i. 296, note, and post, April 6, 1781.

[1036] Mr. Burke. See ante, p. 222, note 4.

[1037] Lord North's ministry lasted from 1770 to 1782.

[1038] Perhaps Johnson had this from Davies, who says (Life of Garrick, i. l24):--'Mrs. Pritchard
read no more of the play of Macbeth than her own part, as written out and delivered to her
by the prompter.' She played the heroine in Irene (ante, i. 197). See post under Sept. 30,
1783, where Johnson says that 'in common life she was a vulgar idiot,' and Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 28, 1773.

[1039] A misprint for April 8.

[1040] Boswell calls him the 'Irish Dr. Campbell,' to distinguish him from the Scotch Dr. Campbell
mentioned ante, i. 417.

[1041] See ante, i. 494.

[1042] Baretti, in a MS. note in his copy of Piozzi Letters, i. 374, says:--'Johnson was often
fond of saying silly things in strong terms, and the silly Madam [Mrs. Thrale] never failed
to echo that beastly kind of wit.'

[1043] According to Dr. T. Campbell, who was present at the dinner (Diary, p. 66), Barry and
Garrick were the two actors, and Murphy the author. If Murphy said this in the heat of one
of his quarrels with Garrick, he made amends in his Life of that actor (p. 362):--'It was with
Garrick,' he wrote, 'a fixed principle, that authors were entitled to the emolument of their
labours, and by that generous way of thinking he held out an invitation to men of genius.'

[1044] Page 392, vol. i. BOSWELL.

[1045] Let me here be allowed to pay my tribute of most sincere gratitude to the memory of
that excellent person, my intimacy with whom was the more valuable to me, because my first
acquaintance with him was unexpected and unsolicited. Soon after the publication of my Account
of Corsica, he did me the honour to call on me, and, approaching me with a frank courteous
air, said, 'My name, Sir, is Oglethorpe, and I wish to be acquainted with you.' I was not a
little flattered to be thus addressed by an eminent man, of whom I had read in Pope, from my
early years,

'Or, driven by strong benevolence of soul, Will fly, like Oglethorpe, from pole to pole.'

I was fortunate enough to be found worthy of his good opinion, insomuch, that I not only was
invited to make one in the many respectable companies whom he entertained at his table, but
had a cover at his hospitable board every day when I happened to be disengaged; and in his
society I never failed to enjoy learned and animated conversation, seasoned with genuine sentiments
of virtue and religion. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 127, and ii. 59, note 1. The couplet from Pope
is from Imitations of Horace, Epist. ii. 2. 276.

[1046]

'Hope springs eternal in the human breast: Man never is, but always to be blest.'

Essay on Man, i. 95.

[1047] 'The natural flights of the human mind are not from pleasure to pleasure, but from hope
to hope.' The Rambler, No. 2. See post, iii. 53, and June 12, 1784. Swift defined happiness
as 'a perpetual possession of being well deceived.' Tale of a Tub, Sect, ix., Swift's Works,
ed. 1803, iii. 154.

[1048] See post, March 29, 1776.

[1049] The General seemed unwilling to enter upon it at this time; but upon a subsequent occasion
he communicated to me a number of particulars, which I have committed to writing; but I was
not sufficiently diligent in obtaining more from him, not apprehending that his friends were
so soon to lose him; for, notwithstanding his great age, he was very healthy and vigorous,
and was at last carried off by a violent fever, which is often fatal at any period of life.
BOSWELL.

[1050] See ante, p. 338.

[1051]

'Mediocribus esse poetis
 Non homines, non Di, non concessere columnae.'
'But God and man, and letter'd post denies
 That poets ever are of middling size.'

FRANCIS, Horace, Ars Poet. l. 372.

[1052] Why he failed to keep his journal may be guessed from his letter to Temple:--'I am,'
he wrote on April 17, 'indeed enjoying this metropolis to the full, according to my taste,
except that I cannot, I see, have a plenary indulgence from you for Asiatic multiplicity. Be
not afraid of me, except when I take too much claret; and then indeed there is a furor brevis
as dangerous as anger.... I have rather had too much dissipation since I came last to town.
I try to keep a journal, and shall show you that I have done tolerably: but it is hardly credible
what ground I go over, and what a variety of men and manners I contemplate in a day; and all
the time I myself am pars magna, for my exuberant spirits will not let me listen enough.' Letters
of Boswell, pp. 187-9. 'Dr. Johnson said:--"Few bishops are now made for their learning. To
be a bishop, a man must be learned in a learned age, factious in a factious age, but always
of eminence."' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21, 1773.

[1055] Lord Shelburne wrote of him:--'He panted for the Treasury, having a notion that the
King and he understood it from what they had read about revenue and funds while they were at
Kew.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 141.

[1056] Chief Justice Pratt (afterwards Lord Camden) became popular by his conduct as a judge
in Wilkes's case. In 1764 he received the freedom of the guild of merchants in Dublin in a
gold box, and from Exeter the freedom of the city. The city of London gave him its freedom
in a gold box, and had his portrait painted by Reynolds. Gent. Mag. 1764, pp. 44, 96, 144.
See ante, p. 314.

[1057] The King, on March 3, 1761, recommended this measure to Parliament. Parl. Hist. xv.
1007. 'This,' writes Horace Walpole, 'was one of Lord Bute's strokes of pedantry. The tenure
of the judges had formerly been a popular topic; and had been secured, as far as was necessary.
He thought this trifling addition would be popular now, when nobody thought or cared about
it.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 41.

[1058] The money arising from the property of the prizes taken before the declaration of war,
which were given to his Majesty by the peace of Paris, and amounted to upwards of L700,000,
and from the lands in the ceded islands, which were estimated at L200,000 more. Surely there
was a noble munificence in this gift from a Monarch to his people. And let it be remembered,
that during the Earl of Bute's administration, the King was graciously pleased to give up the
hereditary revenues of the Crown, and to accept, instead of them, of the limited sum of L800,000
a year; upon which Blackstone observes, that 'The hereditary revenues, being put under the
same management as the other branches of the publick patrimony, will produce more, and be better
collected than heretofore; and the publick is a gainer of upwards of L100,000 per annum by
this disinterested bounty of his Majesty.' Book I. Chap. viii. p. 330. BOSWELL. Lord Bolingbroke
(Works, iii. 286), about the year 1734, pointed out that 'if the funds appropriated produce
the double of that immense revenue of L800,000 a year, which hath been so liberally given the
King for life, the whole is his without account; but if they fail in any degree to produce
it, the entire national fund is engaged to make up the difference.' Blackstone (edit, of 1778,
i. 331) says:--'L800,000 being found insufficient, was increased in 1777 to, L900,000.' He
adds, 'the public is still a gainer of near L100,000.'

[1059] See post, iii. 163.

[1060] Lord Eldon says that Dundas, 'in broken phrases,' asked the King to confer a baronetcy
on 'an eminent Scotch apothecary who had got from Scotland the degree of M. D. The King said:--"What,
what, is that all? It shall be done. I was afraid you meant to ask me to make the Scotch apothecary
a physician--that's more difficult."' He added:--'They may make as many Scotch apothecaries
Baronets as they please, but I shall die by the College.' Twiss's Eldon, ii. 354. A Dr. Duncan,
says Mr. Croker, was appointed physician to the King in 1760. Croker's Boswell, p. 448. A doctor
of the same name, and no doubt the same man, was made a baronet in Aug. 1764. Jesse's Selwyn,
i. 287.

[1061] Wedderburne, afterwards Lord Chancellor Loughborough, and Earl of Rosslyn. One of his
'errands' had been to bring Johnson bills in payment of his first quarter's pension. Ante, i. 376.

[1062] Home, the author of Douglas. Boswell says that 'Home showed the Lord Chief Baron Orde
a pair of pumps he had on, and desired his lordship to observe how well they were made, telling
him at the same time that they had been made for Lord Bute, but were rather too little for
him, so his lordship had made John a present of them. "I think," said the Lord Chief Baron,
"you have taken the measure of Lord Bute's foot."' Boswelliana, p. 252. Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto.
p. 335), writes:--'With Robertson and Home in London I passed the time very agreeably; for
though Home was now [1758] entirely at the command of Lord Bute, whose nod made him break every
engagement--for it was not given above an hour or two before dinner--yet, as he was sometimes
at liberty when the noble lord was to dine abroad, like a horse loosened from his stake, he
was more sportful than usual.'

[1063] Lord North was merely the King's agent. The King was really his own minister at this
time, though he had no seat in his own cabinet councils.

[1064] Only thirty-four years earlier, on the motion in the Lords for the removal of Walpole,
the Duke of Argyle said:--'If my father or brother took upon him the office of a sole minister,
I would oppose it as inconsistent with the constitution, as a high crime and misdemeanour.
I appeal to your consciences whether he [Walpole] hath not done this... He hath turned out
men lately for differing with him.' Lord Chancellor Hardwicke replied:--'A sole minister is
so illegal an office that it is none. Yet a noble lord says, Superior respondeat, which is
laying down a rule for a prime minister; whereas the noble Duke was against any.' The Secker
MS. Parl. Hist. xi. 1056-7. In the Protest against the rejection of the motion it was stated:--'We
are persuaded that a sole, or even a first minister, is an officer unknown to the law of Britain,'
&c. Ib p. 1215. Johnson reports the Chancellor as saying:--'It has not been yet pretended that
he assumes the title of prime minister, or, indeed, that it is applied to him by any but his
enemies ... The first minister can, in my opinion, be nothing more than a formidable illusion,
which, when one man thinks he has seen it, he shows to another, as easily frighted as himself,'
&c. Johnson's Works, x. 214-15. In his Dictionary, premier is only given as an adjective, and
prime minister is not given at all. When the Marquis of Rockingham was forming his cabinet
in March 1782, Burke wrote to him:--'Stand firm on your ground--but one ministry. I trust and
hope that your lordship will not let one, even but one branch of the state ... out of your
own hands; or those which you can entirely rely on.' Burke's Corres. ii. 462. See also post,
iii. 46, April 1, 1781, Jan. 20, 1782, and April 10, 1783.

[1065] See ante, p. 300.

[1066] 'As he liberally confessed that all his own disappointments proceeded from himself,
he hated to hear others complain of general injustice.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 251. See post, end
of May, 1781, and March 23, 1783.

[1067] 'Boswell and I went to church, but came very late. We then took tea, by Boswell's desire;
and I eat one bun, I think, that I might not seem to fast ostentatiously.' Pr. and Med. p. 138.

[1068] See ante, i. 433.

[1069] See ante, i. 332.

[1070] The following passages shew that the thought, or something like it, was not new to Johnson:--'Bruyere
declares that we are come into the world too late to produce anything new, that nature and
life are preoccupied, and that description and sentiment have been long exhausted.' The Rambler,
No. 143. 'My earlier predecessors had the whole field of life before them, untrodden and unsurveyed;
characters of every kind shot up in their way, and those of the most luxuriant growth, or most
conspicuous colours, were naturally cropt by the first sickle. They that follow are forced
to peep into neglected corners.' The Idler, No. 3. 'The first writers took possession of the
most striking objects for description, and the most probable occurrences for fiction.' Rasselas,
ch. x. Some years later he wrote:--'Whatever can happen to man has happened so often that little
remains for fancy or invention.' Works, vii. 311. See also The Rambler, No. 86. In The Adventurer,
No. 95, he wrote:--'The complaint that all topicks are preoccupied is nothing more than the
murmur of ignorance or idleness.' See post, under Aug. 29, 1783. Dr. Warton (Essay on Pope,
i. 88) says that 'St. Jerome relates that Donatus, explaining that passage in Terence, Nihil
est dictum quod non sit dictum prius, railed at the ancients for taking from him his best thoughts.
Pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerunt.'

[1071] Warburton, in the Dedication of his Divine Legation to the Free-thinkers (vol. I. p.
ii), says:--'Nothing, I believe, strikes the serious observer with more surprize, in this age
of novelties, than that strange propensity to infidelity, so visible in men of almost every
condition: amongst whom the advocates of Deism are received with all the applauses due to the
inventers of the arts of life, or the deliverers of oppressed and injured nations.' See ante,
ii. 81.

[1072] In The Rambler, No. 89, Johnson writes of 'that interchange of thoughts which is practised
in free and easy conversation, where suspicion is banished by experience, and emulation by
benevolence; where every man speaks with no other restraint than unwillingness to offend, and
hears with no other disposition than desire to be pleased.' In The Idler, No. 34, he says 'that
companion will be oftenest welcome whose talk flows out with inoffensive copiousness and unenvied
insipidity.' He wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Such tattle as filled your last sweet letter prevents
one great inconvenience of absence, that of returning home a stranger and an inquirer. The
variations of life consist of little things. Important innovations are soon heard, and easily
understood. Men that meet to talk of physicks or metaphysicks, or law or history, may be immediately
acquainted. We look at each other in silence, only for want of petty talk upon slight occurrences.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 354.

[1073] Pr. and Med. p. 138. BOSWELL.

[1074] This line is not, as appears, a quotation, but an abstract of p. 139 of Pr. and Med.

[1075] This is a proverbial sentence. 'Hell,' says Herbert, 'is full of good meanings and wishings.'
Jacula Prudentum, p. 11, edit 1651. MALONE.

[1076] Boswell wrote to Temple:--'I have only to tell you, as my divine, that I yesterday received
the holy sacrament in St. Paul's Church, and was exalted in piety.' It was in the same letter
that he mentioned 'Asiatic multiplicity' (ante p. 352, note 1). Letters of Boswell, p. 189.

[1077]

'Nil admirari, prope res est una, Numici, Solaque, quae possit facere et servare beatum'

Horace, Epis. i. 6. 1.

'Not to admire is all the art I know, To make men happy and keep them so'

Pope's Imitations, adapted from Creech.

[1078]

'We live by Admiration, Hope, and Love; And even as these are well and wisely fixed, In dignity
of being we ascend.'

Wordsworth's Works, ed. 1857, vi. 135.

[1079]

'Amoret's as sweet and good, As the most delicious food; Which but tasted does impart Life
and gladness to the heart. Sacharissa's beauty's wine, Which to madness does incline; Such
a liquor as no brain That is mortal can sustain.'

Waller's Epistles, xii. BOSWELL.

[1080] Not that he would have wished Boswell 'to talk from books.' 'You and I,' he once said
to him, 'do not talk from books.' Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 3, 1773. See post, iii, 108, note
1, for Boswell's want of learning.

[1081] See post, under March 30, 1783.

[1082] Yet he sat to Miss Reynolds, as he tells us, perhaps ten times (post, under June 17,
1783), and 'Miss Reynolds's mind,' he said, 'was very near to purity itself.' Northcote's Reynolds,
i. 80. Eight years later Barry, in his Analysis (post, May, 1783, note), said:--'Our females
are totally, shamefully, and cruelly neglected in the appropriation of trades and employments.'
Barry's Works, ii. 333.

[1083] The four most likely to be mentioned would be, I think, Beauclerk, Garrick, Langton,
and Reynolds. On p. 359, Boswell mentions Beauclerk's 'acid manner.'

[1084] In his Dictionary, Johnson defines muddy as cloudy in mind, dull; and quotes The Winter's
Tale, act i. sc. 2. Wesley (Journal, ii. 10) writes:--'Honest, muddy M. B. conducted me to
his house.' Johnson (post, March 22, 1776), after telling how an acquaintance of his drank,
adds, 'not that he gets drunk, for he is a very pious man, but he is always muddy.' It seems
at first sight unlikely that he called Reynolds muddy; yet three months earlier he had written:--'Reynolds
has taken too much to strong liquor.' Ante, p. 292, note 5.

[1085] In The Rambler, No. 72, Johnson defines good-humour as 'a habit of being pleased; a
constant and perennial softness of manner, easiness of approach, and suavity of disposition.'

[1086] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773.

[1087] 'It is with their learning as with provisions in a besieged town, every one has a mouthful,
and no one a bellyful.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 200.

[1088] 'Men bred in the Universities of Scotland cannot be expected to be often decorated with
the splendours of ornamental erudition, but they obtain a mediocrity of knowledge between learning
and ignorance, not inadequate to the purposes of common life, which is, I believe, very widely
diffused among them.' Johnson's Works, ix. 158. Lord Shelburne said that the Earl of Bute had
'a great deal of superficial knowledge, such as is commonly to be met with in France and Scotland,
chiefly upon matters of natural philosophy, mines, fossils, a smattering of mechanics, a little
metaphysics, and a very false taste in everything.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 139. 'A gentleman
who had heard that Bentley was born in the north, said to Porson: "Wasn't he a Scotchman?"
"No, Sir," replied Porson, "Bentley was a great Greek scholar."' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 322.

[1089] Walton did not retire from business till 1643. But in 1664, Dr. King, Bishop of Chichester,
in a letter prefixed to his Lives, mentions his having been familiarly acquainted with him
for forty years; and in 1631 he was so intimate with Dr. Donne that he was one of the friends
who attended him on his death-bed. J. BOSWELL, jun. His first wife's uncle was George Cranmer,
the grandson of the Archbishop's brother. His second wife was half-sister of Bishop Ken.

[1090] Johnson himself, as Boswell tells us, 'was somewhat susceptible of flattery.' Post,
end of 1784.

[1091] The first time he dined with me, he was shewn into my book-room, and instantly poured
over the lettering of each volume within his reach. My collection of books is very miscellaneous,
and I feared there might be some among them that he would not like. But seeing the number of
volumes very considerable, he said, 'You are an honest man, to have formed so great an accumulation
of knowledge.' BURNEY. Miss Burney describes this visit (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 93):--'Everybody
rose to do him honour; and he returned the attention with the most formal courtesie. My father
whispered to him that music was going forward, which he would not, my father thinks, have found
out; and, placing him on the best seat vacant, told his daughters to go on with the duet, while
Dr. Johnson, intently rolling towards them one eye--for they say he does not see with the other--made
a grave nod, and gave a dignified motion with one hand, in silent approvance of the proceeding.'
He was next introduced to Miss Burney, but 'his attention was not to be drawn off two minutes
longer from the books, to which he now strided his way. He pored over them shelf by shelf,
almost brushing them with his eye-lashes from near examination. At last, fixing upon something
that happened to hit his fancy, he took it down, and standing aloof from the company, which
he seemed clean and clear to forget, he began very composedly to read to himself, and as intently
as if he had been alone in his own study. We were all excessively provoked, for we were languishing,
fretting, expiring to hear him talk.' Dr. Burney, taking up something that Mrs. Thrale had
said, ventured to ask him about Bach's concert. 'The Doctor, comprehending his drift, good-naturedly
put away his book, and see-sawing with a very humorous smile, drolly repeated, "Bach, Sir?
Bach's concert? And pray, Sir, who is Bach? Is he a piper?"'

[1092] Reynolds, noting down 'such qualities as Johnson's works cannot convey,' says that 'the
most distinguished was his possessing a mind which was, as I may say, always ready for use.
Most general subjects had undoubtedly been already discussed in the course of a studious thinking
life. In this respect few men ever came better prepared into whatever company chance might
throw him; and the love which he had to society gave him a facility in the practice of applying
his knowledge of the matter in hand, in which I believe he was never exceeded by any man.'
Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 454.

[1093] See ante, p. 225.

[1094] 'Our silly things called Histories,' wrote Burke (Corres, i. 337). 'The Duke of Richmond,
Fox, and Burke,' said Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 82), 'were conversing about history, philosophy,
and poetry. The Duke said, "I prefer history to philosophy or poetry, because history is truth."
Both Fox and Burke disagreed with him: they thought that poetry was truth, being a representation
of human nature.' Lord Bolingbroke had said (Works, iii. 322) that the child 'in riper years
applies himself to history, or to that which he takes for history, to authorised romance.'

[1095] Mr. Plunket made a great sensation in the House of Commons (Feb. 28, 1825) by saying
that history, if not judiciously read, 'was no better than an old almanack'--which Mercier
had already said in his Nouveau Tableau de Paris--'Malet du Pan's and such like histories of
the revolution are no better than an old almanack.' Boswell, we see, had anticipated both. CROKER.

[1096] It was at Rome on Oct. 15, 1764, says Gibbon in a famous passage, 'that the idea of
writing the decline and fall of the city first started to my mind.' It was not till towards
the end of 1772 that he 'undertook the composition of the first volume.' Gibbon's Misc. Works,
i. 198, 217-9.

[1097] See p. 348. BOSWELL. Gibbon, when with Johnson, perhaps felt that timidity which kept
him silent in Parliament. 'I was not armed by nature and education,' he writes, 'with the intrepid
energy of mind and voice Vincentem strepitus, et natum rebus agendis. Timidity was fortified
by pride, and even the success of my pen discouraged the trial of my voice.' Gibbon's Misc.
Works, i. 221. Some years before he entered Parliament, he said that his genius was 'better
qualified for the deliberate compositions of the closet, than for the extemporary discourses
of the Parliament. An unexpected objection would disconcert me; and as I am incapable of explaining
to others what I do not thoroughly understand myself, I should be meditating while I ought
to be answering.' Ib ii. 39.

[1098] A very eminent physician, whose discernment is as acute and penetrating in judging of
the human character as it is in his own profession, remarked once at a club where I was, that
a lively young man, fond of pleasure, and without money, would hardly resist a solicitation
from his mistress to go upon the highway, immediately after being present at the representation
of The Beggar's Opera. I have been told of an ingenious observation by Mr. Gibbon, that 'The
Beggar's Opera may, perhaps, have sometimes increased the number of highwaymen; but that it
has had a beneficial effect in refining that class of men, making them less ferocious, more
polite, in short, more like gentlemen.' Upon this Mr. Courtenay said, that 'Gay was the Orpheus
of highwaymen.' BOSWELL.

[1099] 'The play like many others was plainly written only to divert without any moral purpose,
and is therefore not likely to do good; nor can it be conceived without more speculation than
life requires or admits to be productive of much evil. Highwaymen and house-breakers seldom
frequent the play-house, or mingle in any elegant diversion; nor is it possible for any one
to imagine that he may rob with safety, because he sees Macheath reprieved upon the stage.'
Works, viii. 68.

[1100] 'The worthy Queensb'ry yet laments his Gay.'

The Seasons. Summer, l. 1422. Pope (Prologue to the Satires, l. 259) says:--

'Of all thy blameless life the sole return My verse, and Queensb'ry weeping o'er thy urn.'

Johnson (Works, viii. 69) mentions 'the affectionate attention of the Duke and Duchess of Queensberry,
into whose house he was taken, and with whom he passed the remaining part of his life.' Smollett,
in Humphry Clinker, in the letters of Sept. 12 and 13, speaks of the Duke as 'one of the best
men that ever breathed,' 'one of those few noblemen whose goodness of heart does honour to
human nature.' He died in 1778.

[1101] This song is the twelfth air in act i.

[1102] 'In several parts of tragedy,' writes Tom Davies, 'Walker's look, deportment, and action
gave a distinguished glare to tyrannic rage.' Davies's Garrick, i. 24.

[1103] Pope said of himself and Swift:--'Neither of us thought it would succeed. I see it in
the eyes of them!" This was a good while before the first act was over, and so gave us ease
soon: for that duke has a more particular knack than any one now living in discovering the
taste of the publick. See The Dundad, iii. 330, and post, April 25, 1778.

[1104] R. B. Sheridan married Miss Linley in 1773.

[1105] His wife had L3000, settled on her with delicate generosity by a gentleman to whom she
had been engaged. Moore's Sheridan, i. 43.

[1106] 'Those who had felt the mischief of discord and the tyranny of usurpation read Hudibras
with rapture, for every line brought back to memory something known, and gratified resentment
by the just censure of something hated. But the book, which was once quoted by princes, and
which supplied conversation to all the assemblies of the gay and witty, is now seldom mentioned,
and even by those that affect to mention it, is seldom read.' The Idler, No. 59.

[1107] In his Life of Addison, Johnson says (Works, vii. 431):--'The reason which induced Cervantes
to bring his hero to the grave, para mi solo nacio Don Quixote y yo para el [for me alone was
Don Quixote born, and I for him], made Addison declare, with undue vehemence of expression,
that he would kill Sir Roger; being of opinion that they were born for one another, and that
any other hand would do him wrong.'

[1108] 'It may be doubted whether Addison ever filled up his original delineation. He describes
his knight as having his imagination somewhat warped; but of this perversion he has made very
little use.' Johnson's Works, vii. 431.

[1109] 'The papers left in the closet of Pieresc supplied his heirs with a whole winter's fuel.'
The Idler, No. 65. 'A chamber in his house was filled with letters from the most eminent scholars
of the age. The learned in Europe had addressed Pieresc in their difficulties, who was hence
called "the attorney-general of the republic of letters." The niggardly niece, though entreated
to permit them to be published, preferred to use these learned epistles occasionally to light
her fires.' D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature, i. 59.

[1110] Boswell was accompanied by Paoli. To justify his visit to London, he said:--'I think
it is also for my interest, as in time I may get something. Lord Pembroke was very obliging
to me when he was in Scotland, and has corresponded with me since. I have hopes from him.'
Letters of Boswell, pp. 182, 189, and post, iii. 122, note 2. Horace Walpole described Lord
Pembroke in 1764 as 'a young profligate.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 415.

[1111] Page 316. BOSWELL.

[1112] Page 291. BOSWELL.

[1113] In justice to Dr. Memis, though I was against him as an Advocate, I must mention, that
he objected to the variation very earnestly, before the translation was printed off. BOSWELL.

[1114] Mr. Croker quotes The World of June 7, 1753, where a Londoner, 'to gratify the curiosity
of a country friend, accompanied him in Easter week to Bedlam. To my great surprise,' he writes,
'I found a hundred people, at least, who, having paid their twopence apiece, were suffered
unattended to run rioting up and down the wards making sport of the miserable inhabitants.
I saw them in a loud laugh of triumph at the ravings they had occasioned.' Young (Universal
Passion, Sat. v.) describes Britannia's daughters

'As unreserved and beauteous as the sun, Through every sign of vanity they run; Assemblies,
parks, coarse feasts in city halls, Lectures and trials, plays, committees, balls; Wells, Bedlams,
executions, Smithfield scenes, And fortune-tellers' caves, and lions' dens.'

In 1749, William Hutton walked from Nottingham to London, passed three days there in looking
about, and returned on foot. The whole journey cost him ten shillings and eight-pence. He says:--'I
wished to see a number of curiosities, but my shallow pocket forbade. One penny to see Bedlam
was all I could spare.' Hutton's Life, pp. 71, 74. Richardson (Familiar Letters, No. 153) makes
a young lady describe her visit to Bedlam:--'The distempered fancies of the miserable patients
most unaccountably provoked mirth and loud laughter; nay, so shamefully inhuman were some,
among whom (I am sorry to say it) were several of my own sex, as to endeavour to provoke the
patients into rage to make them sport.'

[1115] In the Life of Dryden (Works, vii. 304), Johnson writes:--'Virgil would have been too
hasty if he had condemned him [Statius] to straw for one sounding line.' In Humphry Clinker
(Letter of June 10), Mr. Bramble says to Clinker:--'The sooner you lose your senses entirely
the better for yourself and the community. In that case, some charitable person might provide
you with a dark room and clean straw in Bedlam.' Churchill, in Independence (Poems, ii. 307),
writes:--

'To Bethlem with him--give him whips and straw, I'm very sensible he's mad in law.'

[1116] My very honourable friend General Sir George Howard, who served in the Duke of Cumberland's
army, has assured me that the cruelties were not imputable to his Royal Highness. BOSWELL.
Horace Walpole shews the Duke's cruelty to his own soldiers. 'In the late rebellion some recruits
had been raised under a positive engagement of dismission at the end of three years. When the
term was expired they thought themselves at liberty, and some of them quitted the corps. The
Duke ordered them to be tried as deserters, and not having received a legal discharge, they
were condemned. Nothing could mollify him; two were executed.' Memoirs of the Reign of George
II, ii. 203.

[1117] It has been suggested that this is Dr. Percy (see post, April 23, 1778), but Percy was
more than 'an acquaintance of ours,' he was a friend.

[1118] Very likely Mr. Steevens. See post, April 13, 1778, and May 15, 1784.

[1119] On this day Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Boswell has made me promise not to go to
Oxford till he leaves London; I had no great reason for haste, and therefore might as well
gratify a friend. I am always proud and pleased to have my company desired. Boswell would have
thought my absence a loss, and I know not who else would have considered my presence as profit.
He has entered himself at the Temple, and I joined in his bond. He is to plead before the Lords,
and hopes very nearly to gain the cost of his journey. He lives much with his friend Paoli.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 216. Boswell wrote to Temple on June 6:--'For the last fortnight that I
was in London I lay at Paoli's house, and had the command of his coach.... I felt more dignity
when I had several servants at my devotion, a large apartment, and the convenience and state
of a coach. I recollected that this dignity in London was honourably acquired by my travels
abroad, and my pen after I came home, so I could enjoy it with my own approbation.' Letters
of Boswell, p. 200. A year later he records, that henceforth, while in London, he was Paoli's
constant guest till he had a house of his own there (post, iii. 34).

[1120] Lord Stowell told Mr. Croker that, among the Scottish literati, Mr. Crosbie was the
only man who was disposed to stand up (as the phrase is) to Johnson. Croker's Boswell, p. 270.
It is said that he was the original of Mr. Counsellor Pleydell in Scott's novel of Guy Mannering.
Dr. A. Carlyle (Autobiography, p. 420) says of 'the famous club called the Poker,' which was
founded in Edinburgh in 1762:--'In a laughing humour, Andrew Crosbie was chosen Assassin, in
case any officer of that sort should be needed; but David Hume was added as his Assessor, without
whose assent nothing should be done, so that between plus and minus there was likely to be
no bloodshed.' See Boswell's Herbrides, Aug. 16, 1773.

[1121] He left on the 22nd. 'Boswell,' wrote Johnson to Mrs. Thrale on May 22, 'went away at
two this morning. He got two and forty guineas in fees while he was here. He has, by his wife's
persuasion and mine, taken down a present for his mother-in-law.' [? Step-mother, with whom
he was always on bad terms; post, iii. 95, note 1.] Piozzi Letters, i. 219. Boswell, the evening
of the same day, wrote to Temple from Grantham:--'I have now eat (sic) a Term's Commons in
the Inner Temple. You cannot imagine what satisfaction I had in the form and ceremony of the
Hall.... After breakfasting with Paoli, and worshipping at St. Paul's, I dined tete-a-tete
with my charming Mrs. Stuart. We talked with unreserved freedom, as we had nothing to fear;
we were philosophical, upon honour--not deep, but feeling; we were pious; we drank tea, and
bid each other adieu as finely as romance paints. She is my wife's dearest friend; so you see
how beautiful our intimacy is. I then went to Mr. Johnson's, and he accompanied me to Dilly's,
where we supped; and then he went with me to the inn in Holborn, where the Newcastle Fly sets
out; we were warmly affectionate. He is to buy for me a chest of books, of his choosing, off
stalls, and I am to read more and drink less; that was his counsel.' Letters of Boswell, p. 196.

[1122] Yet Gilbert Walmsley had called him in his youth 'a good scholar.' Garrick Corres. i.
1; and Boswell wrote to him:--'Mr. Johnson is ready to bruise any one who calls in question
your classical knowledge, and your happy application of it.' Ib p. 622.

[1123] 'Those whose lot it is to ramble can seldom write, and those who know how to write very
seldom ramble.' Johnson to Mrs. Thrale. Piozzi Letters, i. 32. See post, April 17, 1778.

[1124] A letter from Boswell to Temple on this day helps to fill up the gap in his journal:--'It
gives me acute pain that I have not written more to you since we parted last; but I have been
like a skiff in the sea, driven about by a multiplicity of waves. I am now at Mr. Thrale's
villa, at Streatham, a delightful spot. Dr. Johnson is here too. I came yesterday to dinner,
and this morning Dr. Johnson and I return to London, and I go with Mr. Beauclerk to see his
elegant villa and library, worth L3000, at Muswell Hill, and return and dine with him. I hope
Dr. Johnson will dine with us. I am in that dissipated state of mind that I absolutely cannot
write; I at least imagine so. But while I glow with gaiety, I feel friendship for you, nay,
admiration of some of your qualities, as strong as you could wish. My excellent friend, let
us ever cultivate that mutual regard which, as it has lasted till now, will, I trust, never
fail. On Saturday last I dined with John Wilkes and his daughter, and nobody else, at the Mansion-House;
it was a most pleasant scene. I had that day breakfasted with Dr. Johnson. I drank tea with
Lord Bute's daughter-in-law, and I supped with Miss Boswell. What variety! Mr. Johnson went
with me to Beauclerk's villa, Beauclerk having been ill; it is delightful, just at Highgate.
He has one of the most numerous and splendid private libraries that I ever saw; green-houses,
hot-houses, observatory, laboratory for chemical experiments, in short, everything princely.
We dined with him at his box at the Adelphi. I have promised to Dr. Johnson to read when I
get to Scotland, and to keep an account of what I read; I shall let you know how I go on. My
mind must be nourished.' Letters of Boswell, pp. 193-5.

[1125] Swift did not laugh. 'He had a countenance sour and severe, which he seldom softened
by any appearance of gaiety. He stubbornly resisted any tendency to laughter.' Johnson's Works,
viii. 222. Neither did Pope laugh. 'By no merriment, either of others or his own, was he ever
seen excited to laughter.' Ib p. 312. Lord Chesterfield wrote (Letters i. 329):--'How low and
unbecoming a thing laughter is. I am sure that since I have had the full use of my reason nobody
has ever heard me laugh.' Mrs. Piozzi records (Anec. p. 298) that 'Dr. Johnson used to say
"that the size of a man's understanding might always be justly measured by his mirth;" and
his own was never contemptible.'

[1126] The day before he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Peyton and Macbean [ante, i 187] are both
starving, and I cannot keep them.' Piozzi Letters, i. 218. On April 1, 1776, he wrote:--'Poor
Peyton expired this morning. He probably, during many years for which he sat starving by the
bed of a wife, not only useless but almost motionless, condemned by poverty to personal attendance
chained down to poverty--he probably thought often how lightly he should tread the path of
life without his burthen. Of this thought the admission was unavoidable, and the indulgence
might be forgiven to frailty and distress. His wife died at last, and before she was buried
he was seized by a fever, and is now going to the grave. Such miscarriages when they happen
to those on whom many eyes are fixed, fill histories and tragedies; and tears have been shed
for the sufferings, and wonder excited by the fortitude of those who neither did nor suffered
more than Peyton.' Ib 312. Baretti, in a marginal note on Piozzi Letters, i. 219, writes:--'Peyton
was a fool and a drunkard. I never saw so nauseous a fellow.' But Baretti was a harsh judge.

[1127] A learned Greek. BOSWELL. 'He was a nephew of the Patriarch of Constantinople, and had
fled from some massacre of the Greeks.' Johnstone's Life of Parr, i. 84.

[1128] See ante, p. 278.

[1129] Wife of the Rev. Mr. Kenneth Macaulay, authour of The History of St. Kilda. BOSWELL.
See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 28, 1773.

[1130] 'The Elzevirs of Glasgow,' as Boswell called them. (Hebrides, Oct. 29.)

[1131] See in Boswell's Hebrides, Johnson's letter of May 6, 1775.

[1132] A law-suit carried on by Sir Allan Maclean, Chief of his Clan, to recover certain parts
of his family estates from the Duke of Argyle. BOSWELL.

[1133] A very learned minister in the Isle of Sky, whom both Dr. Johnson and I have mentioned
with regard. BOSWELL. Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 3, 1773, and Johnson's Works, ix. 54. Johnson
in another passage, (ib. p. 115), speaks of him as 'a very learned minister. He wished me to
be deceived [as regards Ossian] for the honour of his country; but would not directly and formally
deceive me.' Johnson told him this to his face. Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22. His credulity
is shewn by the belief he held, that the name of a place called Ainnit in Sky was the same
as the Anaitidis delubrum in Lydia. Ib Sept. 17.

[1134] This darkness is seen in his letters. He wrote 'June 3, 1775. It required some philosophy
to bear the change from England to Scotland. The unpleasing tone, the rude familiarity, the
barren conversation of those whom I found here, in comparison with what I had left, really
hurt my feelings ... The General Assembly is sitting, and I practise at its Bar. There is de
facto something low and coarse in such employment, though on paper it is a Court of Supreme
Judicature; but guineas must be had ... Do you know it requires more than ordinary spirit to
do what I am to do this very morning: I am to go to the General Assembly and arraign a judgement
pronounced last year by Dr. Robertson, John Home, and a good many more of them, and they are
to appear on the other side. To speak well, when I despise both the cause and the Judges, is
difficult: but I believe I shall do wonderfully. I look forward with aversion to the little,
dull labours of the Court of Sessions. You see, Temple, I have my troubles as well as you have.
My promise under the venerable yew has kept me sober.' Letters of Boswell, p. 198. On June
19, he is 'vexed to think myself a coarse labourer in an obscure corner.... Mr. Hume says there
will in all probability be a change of the Ministry soon, which he regrets. Oh, Temple, while
they change so often, how does one feel an ambition to have a share in the great department!
... My father is most unhappily dissatisfied with me. He harps on my going over Scotland with
a brute (think how shockingly erroneous!) and wandering (or some such phrase) to London!' Ib
p. 201. 'Aug. 12. I have had a pretty severe return this summer of that melancholy, or hypochondria,
which is inherent in my constitution.... While afflicted with melancholy, all the doubts which
have ever disturbed thinking men come upon me. I awake in the night dreading annihilation,
or being thrown into some horrible state of being.' He recounts a complimentary letter he had
received from Lord Mayor Wilkes, and continues:--'Tell me, my dear Temple, if a man who receives
so many marks of more than ordinary consideration can be satisfied to drudge in an obscure
corner, where the manners of the people are disagreeable to him.' Ib p. 209.

[1135] He was absent from the end of May till some time in August. He wrote from Oxford on
June 1:--'Don't suppose that I live here as we live at Streatham. I went this morning to the
chapel at six.' Piozzi Letters, i. 223. He was the guest of Mr. Coulson, a Fellow of University
College. On June 6, he wrote:--'Such is the uncertainty of all human things that Mr. Coulson
has quarrelled with me. He says I raise the laugh upon him, and he is an independent man, and
all he has is his own, and he is not used to such things.' Ib p. 226. An eye-witness told Mr.
Croker that 'Coulson was going out on a country living, and talking of it with the same pomp
as to Lord Stowell.' [He had expressed to him his doubts whether, after living so long in the
great world, he might not grow weary of the comparative retirement of a country parish. Croker's
Boswell, p. 425.] Johnson chose to imagine his becoming an archdeacon, and made himself merry
at Coulson's expense. At last they got to warm words, and Johnson concluded the debate by exclaiming
emphatically--'Sir, having meant you no offence, I will make you no apology.' Ib p. 458. The
quarrel was made up, for the next day he wrote:--'Coulson and I are pretty well again.' Piozzi
Letters, i. 229.

[1136] Boswell wrote to Temple on Sept. 2:--'It is hardly credible how difficult it is for
a man of my sensibility to support existence in the family where I now am. My father, whom
I really both respect and affectionate (if that is a word, for it is a different feeling from
that which is expressed by love, which I can say of you from my soul), is so different from
me. We divaricate so much, as Dr. Johnson said, that I am often hurt when, I dare say, he means
no harm: and he has a method of treating me which makes me feel myself like a timid boy, which
to Boswell (comprehending all that my character does in my own imagination and in that of a
wonderful number of mankind) is intolerable. His wife too, whom in my conscience I cannot condemn
for any capital bad quality, is so narrow-minded, and, I don't know how, so set upon keeping
him under her own management, and so suspicious and so sourishly tempered that it requires
the utmost exertion of practical philosophy to keep myself quiet. I however have done so all
this week to admiration: nay, I have appeared good-humoured; but it has cost me drinking a
considerable quantity of strong beer to dull my faculties.' Letters of Boswell, p. 215.

[1137] Voltaire wrote of Henault's Abrege de l' Histoire de la France:--'Il a ete dans l'histoire
ce que Fontenelle a ete dans la philosophie. Il l'a rendue familiere.' Voltaire's Works, xvii.
99. With a quotation from Henault, Carlyle begins his French Revolution. Johnson wrote to Mrs.
Thrale, 'May 22, 1775:--I am not sorry that you read Boswell's Journal. Is it not a merry piece?
There is much in it about poor me.' Piozzi Letters, i. 220. 'June 11, 1775. You never told
me, and I omitted to inquire, how you were entertained by Boswell's Journal. One would think
the man had been hired to be a spy upon me. He was very diligent, and caught opportunities
of writing from time to time.' Ib p. 233. I suspect that the words I have marked by italics
are not Johnson's, but are Mrs. Piozzi's interpolation.

[1139] 'In my heart of heart.' Hamlet, act iii. sc. 2.

[1140] Another parcel of Lord Hailes's Annals of Scotland. BOSWELL.

[1141] Where Sir Joshua Reynolds lived. BOSWELL.

[1142] Johnson's birthday. In Pr. and Med. p. 143, is a prayer which was, he writes, 'composed
at Calais in a sleepless night, and used before the morn at Notre Dame.'

[1143] See ante, i. 243, note 3.

[1144] 'While Johnson was in France, he was generally very resolute in speaking Latin.' Post,
under Nov. 12, 1775.

[1145] Miss Thrale. BOSWELL.

[1146] In his Journal he records 'their meals are gross' (post, Oct. 10). We may doubt therefore
Mrs. Piozzi's statement that he said of the French: 'They have few sentiments, but they express
them neatly; they have little in meat too, but they dress it well.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 102.

[1147] See ante, i. 362, note 1.

[1148] Boswell wrote to Temple:--'You know, my dearest friend, of what importance this is to
me; of what importance it is to the family of Auchinleck, which you may be well convinced is
my supreme object in this world.' Letters of Boswell, p. 217. Alexander Boswell was killed
in a duel in 1822.

[1149] This alludes to my old feudal principle of preferring male to female succession. BOSWELL.
See post, under Jan. 10, 1776.

[1150] He wrote to Dr. Taylor on the same day:--'I came back last Tuesday from France. Is not
mine a kind of life turned upside down? Fixed to a spot when I was young, and roving the world
when others are contriving to sit still, I am wholly unsettled. I am a kind of ship with a
wide sail, and without an anchor.' Notes and Queries. 6th S., v. 422.

[1151] There can be no doubt that many years previous to 1775 he corresponded with this lady,
who was his step-daughter, but none of his earlier letters to her have been preserved. BOSWELL.
Many of these earlier letters were printed by Malone and Croker in later editions. See i. 512.

[1152] When on their way to Wales, July 7, 1774, post, vol. v.

[1153] Smollett wrote (Travels, i. 88):--'Notwithstanding the gay disposition of the French,
their houses are all gloomy. After all it is in England only where we must look for cheerful
apartments, gay furniture, neatness, and convenience.'

[1154] Son of Mrs. Johnson, by her first husband. BOSWELL.

[1155] 'A gentleman said, "Surely that Vanessa must be an extraordinary woman, that could inspire
the Dean to write so finely upon her." Mrs. Johnson [Stella] smiled, and answered "that she
thought that point not quite so clear; for it was well known the Dean could write finely upon
a broomstick."' Johnson's Works, viii. 210.

[1156] Horace Walpole wrote from Paris this autumn:--'I have not yet had time to visit the
Hotel du Chatelet.' Letters, vi. 260. On July 31st, 1789, writing of the violence of the mob,
he says:--'The hotel of the Due de Chatelet, lately built and superb, has been assaulted, and
the furniture sold by auction.' Ib ix. 202.

[1157] See post, under Nov. 12, 1775, note, and June 25, 1784.

[1158] The Prior of the Convent of the Benedictines where Johnson had a cell appropriated to
him. Post, Oct. 31, and under Nov. 12.

[1159] The rest of this paragraph appears to be a minute of what was told by Captain Irwin.
BOSWELL.

[1160] Melchior Canus, a celebrated Spanish Dominican, who died at Toledo, in 1560. He wrote
a treatise De Locis Theologicis, in twelve books. BOSWELL.

[1161] D'Argenson's. CROKER.

[1162] See Macaulay's Essays, i. 355, and Mr. Croker's answer in his note on this passage.
His notion that 'this book was exhibited purposely on the lady's table, in the expectation
that her English visitors would think it a literary curiosity,' seems absurd. He does not choose
to remember the 'Bibl. des Fees and other books.' Since I wrote this note Mr. Napier has published
an edition of Boswell, in which this question is carefully examined (ii. 550). He sides with
Macaulay.

[1163] 'Si quelque invention peut suppleer a la connaissance qui nous est refusee des longitudes
sur la mer, c'est celle du plus habile horloger de France (M. Leroi) qui dispute cette invention
a l'Angleterre.' Voltaire, Siecle de Louis XV, ch. 43.

[1164] The Palais Marchand was properly only the stalls which were placed along some of the
galleries of the Palais. They have been all swept away in Louis Philippe's restoration of the
Palais. CROKER.

[1165] 'Petit siege de bois sur lequel on faisait asseoir, pour les interroger, ceux qui etaient
accuses d'un delit pouvant faire encourir une peine afflictive.' LITTRE.

[1166] The Conciergerie, before long to be crowded with the victims of the Revolution.

[1167] This passage, which so many think superstitious, reminds me of Archbishop Laud's Diary.
BOSWELL. Laud, for instance, on Oct. 27, 1640, records:--'In my upper study hung my picture
taken by the life; and coming in, I found it fallen down upon the face, and lying on the floor,
the string being broken by which it was hanged against the wall. I am almost every day threatened
with my ruin in Parliament. God grant this be no omen.' Perhaps there was nothing superstitious
in Johnson's entry. He may have felt ill in mind or body, and dreaded to become worse.

[1168] For a brief account of Freron, father and son, see Carlyle's French Revolution, part
ii. bk. 1. ch. 4.

[1169] A round table, the centre of which descended by machinery to a lower floor, so that
supper might be served without the presence of servants. It was invented by Lewis XV. during
the favour of Madame du Barri. CROKER.

[1170] See ante, i. 363, note 3.

[1171] Before the Revolution the passage from the garden of the Tuileries into the Place Louis
XV. was over a pont tournant. CROKER.

[1172] The niece of Arabella Fermor, the Belinda of the Rape of the Lock. Johnson thus mentions
this lady (Works, viii. 246):--'At Paris, a few years ago, a niece of Mrs. Fermor, who presided
in an English convent, mentioned Pope's works with very little gratitude, rather as an insult
than an honour.' She is no doubt the Lady Abbess mentioned post, March 15, 1776. She told Mrs.
Piozzi in 1784 'that she believed there was but little comfort to be found in a house that
harboured poets; for that she remembered Mr. Pope's praise made her aunt very troublesome and
conceited, while his numberless caprices would have employed ten servants to wait on him.'
Piozzi's Journey, i. 20.

[1173] Mrs. Thrale wrote, on Sept. 18, 1777:--'When Mr. Thrale dismisses me, I am to take refuge
among the Austin Nuns, and study Virgil with dear Miss Canning.' Piozzi Letters, i. 374.

[1174] Pensionnaires, pupils who boarded in the convent.

[1175] He brought back a snuff-box for Miss Porter. Ante, p. 387.

[1176] 63 livres = L2 12s. 6d.

[1177] Torture-chamber. See ante, i. 467, note 1.

[1178] 'Au parlement de Paris la chambre chargee des affaires criminelles.' LITTRE.

[1179] The grandson was the Duke d'Enghien who was put to death by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1804.

[1180] His tender affection for his departed wife, of which there are many evidences in his
Prayers and Meditations, appears very feelingly in this passage. BOSWELL. 'On many occasions
I think what she [his wife] would have said or done. When I saw the sea at Brighthelmstone,
I wished for her to have seen it with me.' Pr. and Med. p. 91.

[1181] See post, p. 402.

[1182] See post, iii. 89.

[1183] Dr. Moore (Travels in France, i. 31) says that in Paris, 'those who cannot afford carriages
skulk behind pillars, or run into shops, to avoid being crushed by the coaches, which are driven
as near the wall as the coachman pleases.' Only on the Pont Neuf, and the Pont Royal, and the
quays between them were there, he adds, foot-ways.

[1184] Lewis XVI.

[1185] The King's sister, who was guillotined in the Reign of Terror.

[1186] See p. 391. BOSWELL.

[1187] 'When at Versailles, the people showed us the Theatre. As we stood on the stage looking
at some machinery for playhouse purposes; "Now we are here, what shall we act, Mr. Johnson:--The
Englishman in Paris"? "No, no," replied he, "we will try to act Harry the Fifth."' Piozzi's
Anec. p. 101. The Englishman in Paris is a comedy by Foote.

[1188] This epithet should be applied to this animal, with one bunch. BOSWELL.

[1189] He who commanded the troops at the execution of Lewis XVI.

[1190] 1462.

[1191] I cannot learn of any book of this name. Perhaps Johnson saw Durandi Rationale Officiorum
Divinorum, which was printed in 1459, one year later than Johnson mentions. A copy of this
he had seen at Blenheim in 1774. His Journey into North Wales, Sept. 22.

[1192] He means, I suppose, that he read these different pieces while he remained in the library.
BOSWELL.

[1193] Johnson in his Dictionary defines Apartment as A room; a set of rooms.

[1194] Smollett (Travels, i. 85) writes of these temporary servants:--'You cannot conceive
with what eagerness and dexterity these rascally valets exert themselves in pillaging strangers.
There is always one ready in waiting on your arrival, who begins by assisting your own servant
to unload your baggage, and interests himself in your own affairs with such artful officiousness
that you will find it difficult to shake him off.'

[1195] Livres--francs we should now say.

[1196] It was here that Rousseau got rid of his children. 'Je savais que l'education pour eux
la moins perilleuse etait celle des enfans trouves; et je les y mis.' Les Reveries, ix'me promenade.

[1197] Dr. Franklin, in 1785, wrote:--'I am credibly informed that nine-tenths of them die
there pretty soon.' Memoirs, iii. 187. Lord Kames (Sketches of the History of Man, iii. 91)
says:--'The Paris almanac for the year 1768 mentions that there were baptised 18,576 infants,
of whom the foundling-hospital received 6025.'

[1198] St. Germain des Pres. Better known as the Prison of the Abbaye.

[1199] I have looked in vain into De Bure, Meerman, Mattaire, and other typographical books,
for the two editions of the Catholicon, which Dr. Johnson mentions here, with names which I
cannot make out. I read 'one by Latinius, one by Boedinus.' I have deposited the original MS.
in the British Museum, where the curious may see it. My grateful acknowledgements are due to
Mr. Planta for the trouble he was pleased to take in aiding my researches. BOSWELL. A Mr. Planta
is mentioned in Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, v. 39.

[1200] Friar Wilkes visited Johnson in May 1776. Piozzi Letters, i. 336. On Sept. 18, 1777,
Mrs. Thrale wrote to Johnson:--'I have got some news that will please you now. Here is an agreeable
friend come from Paris, whom you were very fond of when we were there--the Prior of our English
Benedictine Convent, Mr. Cowley ... He inquires much for you; and says Wilkes is very well,
No. 45, as they call him in the Convent. A cell is always kept ready for your use he tells
me.' Ib p. 373.

[1201] The writing is so bad here, that the names of several of the animals could not be decyphered
without much more acquaintance with natural history than I possess.--Dr. Blagden, with his
usual politeness, most obligingly examined the MS. To that gentleman, and to Dr. Gray, of the
British Museum, who also very readily assisted me, I beg leave to express my best thanks. BOSWELL

[1202] It is thus written by Johnson, from the French pronunciation of fossane. It should be
observed, that the person who shewed this Menagerie was mistaken in supposing the fossane and
the Brasilian weasel to be the same, the fossane being a different animal, and a native of
Madagascar. I find them, however, upon one plate in Pennant's Synopsis of Quadrupeds. BOSWELL.

[1203] How little Johnson relished this talk is shewn by his letter to Mrs. Thrale of May 1,
1780, and by her answer. He wrote:--'The Exhibition, how will you do, either to see or not
to see? The Exhibition is eminently splendid. There is contour, and keeping, and grace, and
expression, and all the varieties of artificial excellence.' Piozzi Letters, ii. III. She answered:--'When
did I ever plague about contour, and grace, and expression? I have dreaded them all three since
that hapless day at Compiegne when you teased me so.' Ib p. 116

[1204] 'Nef, (old French from nave) the body of a church.' Johnson's Dictionary.

[1205] My worthy and ingenious friend, Mr. Andrew Lumisden, by his accurate acquaintance with
France, enabled me to make out many proper names, which Dr. Johnson had written indistinctly,
and sometimes spelt erroneously. Boswell. Lumisden is mentioned in Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 13.

[1206] Baretti, in a marginal note on Piozzi Letters, i. 142, says that 'Johnson saw next to
nothing of Paris.' On p. 159 he adds:--'He noticed the country so little that he scarcely spoke
of it ever after.' He shews, however, his ignorance of Johnson's doings by saying that 'in
France he never touched a pen.'

[1207] Hume's reception in 1763 was very different. He wrote to Adam Smith:--'I have been three
days at Paris, and two at Fontainebleau, and have everywhere met with the most extraordinary
honours which the most exorbitant vanity could wish or desire.' The Dauphin's three children,
afterwards Lewis XVI, Lewis XVIII, and Charles X, had each to make a set speech of congratulation.
He was the favourite of the most exclusive coteries. J.H. Burton's Hume, ii. 168, 177, 208.
But at that date, sceptical philosophy was the rage.

[1208] Horace Walpole wrote from Paris in 1771 (Letters, v. 317-19):--'The distress here is
incredible, especially at Court.... The middling and common people are not much richer than
Job when he had lost everything but his patience.' Rousseau wrote of the French in 1777:--'Cette
nation qui se pretend si gaie montre peu cette gaite dans ses jeux. Souvent j'allais jadis
aux guinguettes pour y voir danser le menu peuple; mais ses danses etaient si maussades, son
maintien si dolent, si gauche, que j'en sortais plutot contriste que rejoui.' Les Reveries,
IXme. promenade. Baretti (Journey to Genoa, iv. 146) denies that the French 'are entitled to
the appellation of cheerful.' 'Provence,' he says (ib. 148), 'is the only province in which
you see with some sort of frequency the rustic assemblies roused up to cheerfulness by the
fifre and the tambourin.' Mrs. Piozzi describes the absence of 'the happy middle state' abroad.
'As soon as Dover is left behind, every man seems to belong to some other man, and no man to
himself.' Piozzi's Journey, ii. 341. Voltaire, in his review of Julia Mandeville (Works, xliii.
364), says:--'Pour peu qu'un roman, une tragedie, une comedie ait de succes a Londres, on en
fait trois et quatre editions en peu de mois; c'est que l'etat mitoyen est plus riche et plus
instruit en Angleterre qu'en France, &c.' But Barry, the painter (post, May 17, 1783), in 1766,
described to Burke, 'the crowds of busy contented people which cover (as one may say) the whole
face of the country.' But he was an Irishman comparing France with Ireland. 'They make a strong,
but melancholy contrast to a miserable ------ which I cannot help thinking of sometimes. You
will not be at any loss to know that I mean Ireland.' Barry's Works, i. 57. 'Hume,' says Dr.
J. H. Burton, 'in his Essay on The Parties of Great Britain (published in 1741), alludes to
the absence of a middle class in Scotland, where he says, there are only "two ranks of men,
gentlemen who have some fortune and education, and the meanest starving poor; without any considerable
number of the middling rank of men, which abounds more in England, both in cities and in the
country, than in any other quarter of the world."' Life of Hume, i. 198. I do not find this
passage in the edition of Hume's Essays of 1770.

[1209] Yet Smollett wrote in 1763:--'All manner of butcher's meat and poultry are extremely
good in Paris. The beef is excellent.' He adds, 'I can by no means relish their cookery.' Smollett's
Travels, i. 86. Horace Walpole, in 1765, wrote from Amiens on his way to Paris:--'I am almost
famished for want of clean victuals, and comfortable tea, and bread and butter.' Letters, iv.
401. Goldsmith, in 1770, wrote from Paris:--'As for the meat of this country I can scarce eat
it, and though we pay two good shillings an head for our dinner, I find it all so tough, that
I have spent less time with my knife than my pick-tooth.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 219.

[1210] Walpole calls Paris 'the ugliest, beastliest town in the universe,' and describes the
indelicacy of the talk of women of the first rank. Letters, iv. 435. See post, May 13, 1778,
and under Aug. 29, 1783.

[1211] Madame du Boccage, according to Miss Reynolds, whose authority was Baretti. Croker's
Boswell, p. 467. See post, June 25, 1784.

[1212] In Edinburgh, Johnson threw a glass of lemonade out of the window because the waiter
had put the sugar into it 'with his greasy fingers.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 14.

[1213] Mrs. Thrale wrote to Johnson in 1782:--'When we were in France we could form little
judgement [of the spread of refinement], as our time was passed chiefly among English; yet
I recollect that one fine lady, who entertained us very splendidly, put her mouth to the teapot,
and blew in the spout when it did not pour freely.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 247.

[1214] That he did not continue exactly as in London is stated by Boswell himself. 'He was
furnished with a Paris-made wig of handsome construction,' (Post, April 28, 1778). His Journal
shews that he bought articles of dress (ante, p. 398). Hawkins (Life, p. 517) says that 'he
yielded to the remonstrances of his friends so far as to dress in a suit of black and a Bourgeois
wig, but resisted their importunity to wear ruffles. By a note in his diary it appears that
he laid out near thirty pounds in clothes for this journey.' A story told by Foote we may believe
as little as we please. 'Foote is quite impartial,' said Johnson, 'for he tells lies of everybody.'
Post, under March 15, 1776.

[1215] If Johnson's Latin was understood by foreigners in France, but not in England, the explanation
may be found in his Life of Milton (Works, vii. 99), where he says:--'He who travels, if he
speaks Latin, may so soon learn the sounds which every native gives it, that he need make no
provision before his journey; and if strangers visit us, it is their business to practise such
conformity to our modes as they expect from us in their own countries.' Johnson was so sturdy
an Englishman that likely enough, as he was in London, he would not alter his pronunciation
to suit his Excellency's ear. In Priestley's Works, xxiii. 233, a conversation is reported
in which Dr. Johnson argued for the Italian method of pronouncing Latin.

[1216] See ante, ii. 80.

[1217] As Mme. de Boufflers is mentioned in the next paragraph, Boswell no doubt, wishes to
shew that the letter was addressed to her. She was the mistress of the Prince of Conti. She
understood English, and was the correspondent of Hume. There was also a Marquise de Boufflers,
mistress of old King Stanislaus.

[1218] In the Piozzi Letters (i. 34), this letter is dated May 16, 1771; in Boswell's first
and second editions, July 16, 1771; in the third edition, July 16, 1775. In May, 1771, Johnson,
so far as there is anything to shew, was in London. On July 16, both in 1771 and 1775, he was
in Ashbourne. One of Hume's Letters (Private Corres., p. 283), dated April 17, 1775, shews
that Mme. de Boufflers was at that time 'speaking of coming to England.'

[1219] Mme. de Boufflers was in England in the summer of 1763. Jesse's Selwyn, i. 235.

[1220] Boscovich, a learned Jesuit, was born at Ragusa in 1711, and died in 1787. He visited
London in 1760, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. Chalmers's Biog. Dict. See ante,
p. 125.

[1221] See ante, p. 288.

[1222] Four years later Johnson thus spoke to Miss Burney of her father:--'"I love Burney;
my heart goes out to meet him." "He is not ungrateful, Sir," cried I; "for most heartily does
he love you." "Does he, Madam? I am surprised at that." "Why, Sir? Why should you have doubted
it?" "Because, Madam, Dr. Burney is a man for all the world to love: it is but natural to love
him." I could have almost cried with delight at this cordial, unlaboured eloge.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 196.

[1223] 'Though a sepulchral inscription is professedly a panegyrick, and therefore not confined
to historical impartiality, yet it ought always to be written with regard to truth. No man
ought to be commended for virtues which he never possessed, but whoever is curious to know
his faults must inquire after them in other places.' Johnson's Works, v. 265. See post, April
24, 1779.

[1224] See ante, i. 46.

[1225] See post, iii. 12, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22.

[1226] Johnson's Dick Wormwood, in The Idler, No. 83, a man 'whose sole delight is to find
everything wrong, triumphs when he talks on the present system of education, and tells us with
great vehemence that we are learning words when we should learn things.' In the Life of Milton
(Works, vii, 75), Johnson writes:--'It is told that in the art of education Milton performed
wonders; and a formidable list is given of the authors, Greek and Latin, that were read in
Aldersgate-street, by youth between ten and fifteen or sixteen years of age. Those who tell
or receive these stories should consider, that nobody can be taught faster than he can learn.
The speed of the horseman must be limited by the power of the horse.' He advised Boswell 'not
to refine in the education of his children. You must do as other people do.' Post, iii. 169.
Yet, in his Life of Barretier (Works, vi. 380), he says:--'The first languages which he learnt
were the French, German, and Latin, which he was taught, not in the common way, by a multitude
of definitions, rules, and exceptions, which fatigue the attention and burden the memory, without
any use proportionate to the time which they require and the disgust which they create. The
method by which he was instructed was easy and expeditious, and therefore pleasing. He learnt
them all in the same manner, and almost at the same time, by conversing in them indifferently
with his father.'

[1227] Miss Aikin, better known as Mrs. Barbauld. Johnson uses Presbyterian where we should
use Unitarian. 'The Unitarians of the present day [1843] are the representatives of that branch
of the early Nonconformists who received the denomination of Presbyterians; and they are still
known by that name.' Penny Cyclo. xxvi. 6.

[1228] Othello, act ii. sc. 1.

[1229] He quotes Barbauld's Lessons for Children (p. 68, ed. of 1878). Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p.
16), speaking of books for children says:--'Mrs. Barbauld had his best praise; no man was more
struck than Mr. Johnson with voluntary descent from possible splendour to painful duty.' Mrs.
Piozzi alludes to Johnson's praise of Dr. Watts:--'Every man acquainted with the common principles
of human action, will look with veneration on the writer, who is at one time combating Locke,
and at another making a catechism for children in their fourth year. A voluntary descent from
the dignity of science is perhaps the hardest lesson that humility can teach.' Works, viii.
384. He praised Milton also, who, when 'writing Paradise Lost, could condescend from his elevation
to rescue children from the perplexity of grammatical confusion, and the trouble of lessons
unnecessarily repeated.' Ib vii. 99. Mrs. Barbauld did what Swift said Gay had shown could
be done. 'One may write things to a child without being childish.' Swift's Works, xvii. 221.
In her Advertisement, she says:--'The task is humble, but not mean; to plant the first idea
in a human mind can be no dishonour to any hand.' 'Ethicks, or morality,' wrote Johnson, 'is
one of the studies which ought to begin with the first glimpse of reason, and only end with
life itself.' Works, v. 243. This might have been the motto of her book. As the Advertisement
was not published till 1778 (Barbauld's Works, ii. 19) it is possible that Johnson's criticism
had reached her, and that it was meant as an answer. Among her pupils were William Taylor of
Norwich, Sir William Gell, and the first Lord Denman (ib. i. xxv-xxx). Mrs. Barbauld bore Johnson
no ill-will. In her Eighteen Hundred and Eleven, she describes some future pilgrims 'from the
Blue Mountains or Ontario's Lake,' coming to view 'London's faded glories.'

'With throbbing bosoms shall the wanderers tread The hallowed mansions of the silent dead,
Shall enter the long aisle and vaulted dome Where genius and where valour find a home; Bend
at each antique shrine, and frequent turn To clasp with fond delight some sculptured urn, The
ponderous mass of Johnson's form to greet, Or breathe the prayer at Howard's sainted feet.'

Ib i. 242.

[1230] According to Mme. D'Arblay he said:--'Sir, I shall be very glad to have a new sense
put into me.' He had been wont to speak slightingly of music and musicians. 'The first symptom
that he showed of a tendency to conversion was upon hearing the following read aloud from the
preface to Dr. Burney's History of Music while it was yet in manuscript:--"The love of lengthened
tones and modulated sounds seems a passion implanted in human nature throughout the globe;
as we hear of no people, however wild and savage in other particulars, who have not music of
some kind or other, with which they seem greatly delighted." "Sir," cried Dr. Johnson after
a little pause, "this assertion I believe may be right." And then, see-sawing a minute or two
on his chair, he forcibly added:--"All animated nature loves music--except myself!"' Dr. Burney's
Memoirs, ii. 77. Hawkins (Life, p. 319) says that Johnson said of music, '"it excites in my
mind no ideas, and hinders me from contemplating my own." I have sometimes thought that music
was positive pain to him. Upon his hearing a celebrated performer go through a hard composition,
and hearing it remarked that it was very difficult, he said, "I would it had been impossible."'
Yet he had once bought a flageolet, though he had never made out a tune. 'Had I learnt to fiddle,'
he said, 'I should have done nothing else' (post, April 7, 1778, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct.
15, 1773). Not six months before his death he asked Dr. Burney to teach him the scale of music
(ante, p. 263, note 4). That 'he appeared fond of the bagpipe, and used often to stand for
some time with his ear close to the great drone' (Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 15), does not tell
for much either way. In his Hebrides (Works, ix. 55), he shews his pleasure in singing. 'After
supper,' he writes, 'the ladies sung Erse songs, to which I listened, as an English audience
to an Italian opera, delighted with the sound of words which I did not understand.' Boswell
records (Hebrides, Sept. 28) that another day a lady 'pleased him much, by singing Erse songs,
and playing on the guitar.' Johnson himself shews that if his ear was dull to music, it was
by no means dead to sound. He thus describes a journey by night in the Highlands (Works, ix.
l55):--'The wind was loud, the rain was heavy, and the whistling of the blast, the fall of
the shower, the rush of the cataracts, and the roar of the torrent, made a nobler chorus of
the rough music of nature than it had ever been my chance to hear before.' In 1783, when he
was in his seventy-fourth year, he said, on hearing the music of a funeral procession:--'This
is the first time that I have ever been affected by musical sounds.' Post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's
Collection.

[1231] Miss Burney, in 1778, records that he said:--'David, Madam, looks much older than he
is; for his face has had double the business of any other man's; it is never at rest; when
he speaks one minute, he has quite a different countenance to what he assumes the next; I don't
believe he ever kept the same look for half-an-hour together in the whole course of his life;
and such an eternal, restless, fatiguing play of the muscles must certainly wear out a man's
face before its real time.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 64. Malone fathers this witticism on
Foote. Prior's Malone, p. 369.

[1232] On Nov. 2 of this year, a proposal was made to Garrick by the proprietors of Covent-Garden
Theatre, 'that now in the time of dearth and sickness' they should open their theatres only
five nights in each week. Garrick Corres, ii. 108.

[1233] 'Mrs. Boswell no doubt had disliked his wish to pass over his daughters in entailing
the Auchinleck estate, in favour of heirs-male however remote. Post, p. 414--Johnson, on Feb.
9, 1776, opposing this intention, wrote:--'I hope I shall get some ground now with Mrs. Boswell.'

[1234] Joseph Ritter, a Bohemian, who was in my service many years, and attended Dr. Johnson
and me in our Tour to the Hebrides. After having left me for some time, he had now returned
to me. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 103.

[1235] See Boswell's Hebrides near the end.

[1236] See ante, p. 383.

[1237] Mr. Croker says that he was informed by Boswell's grand-daughter, who died in 1836,
that it had come to be pronounced Auchinleck. The Rev. James Chrystal, the minister of Auchinleck,
in answer to my inquiry, politely informs me that 'the name "Affleck" is still quite common
as applied to the parish, and even Auchinleck House is as often called Place Affleck as otherwise.'

[1238] See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 4.

[1239] Acts of Parliament of Scotland, 1685, cap. 22. BOSWELL. Cockburn (Life of Jeffrey, i.
372) mentions 'the statute (11 and 12 Victoria, chap. 36) which dissolves the iron fetters
by which, for about 160 years, nearly three-fourths of the whole land in Scotland was made
permanently unsaleable, and unattachable for debt, and every acre in the kingdom might be bound
up, throughout all ages, in favour of any heirs, or any conditions, that the caprice of each
unfettered owner might be pleased to proscribe.'

[1240] As first, the opinion of some distinguished naturalists, that our species is transmitted
through males only, the female being all along no more than a nidus, or nurse, as Mother Earth
is to plants of every sort; which notion seems to be confirmed by that text of scripture, 'He
was yet in the loins of his FATHER when Melchisedeck met him' (Heb. vii. 10); and consequently,
that a man's grandson by a daughter, instead of being his surest descendant as is vulgarly
said, has in reality no connection whatever with his blood. And secondly, independent of this
theory, (which, if true, should completely exclude heirs general,) that if the preference of
a male to a female, without regard to primogeniture, (as a son, though much younger, nay, even
a grandson by a son, to a daughter,) be once admitted, as it universally is, it must be equally
reasonable and proper in the most remote degree of descent from an original proprietor of an
estate, as in the nearest; because,--however distant from the representative at the time,--that
remote heir male, upon the failure of those nearer to the original proprietor than he is, becomes
in fact the nearest male to him, and is, therefore, preferable as his representative, to a
female descendant.--A little extension of mind will enable us easily to perceive that a son's
son, in continuation to whatever length of time, is preferable to a son's daughter, in the
succession to an ancient inheritance; in which regard should be had to the representation of
the original proprietor, and not to that of one of his descendants.

I am aware of Blackstone's admirable demonstration of the reasonableness of the legal succession,
upon the principle of there being the greatest probability that the nearest heir of the person
who last dies proprietor of an estate, is of the blood of the first purchaser. But supposing
a pedigree to be carefully authenticated through all its branches, instead of mere probability
there will be a certainty that the nearest heir male, at whatever period, has the same right
of blood with the first heir male, namely, the original purchaser's eldest son. Boswell.

[1241] Boswell wrote to Temple on Sept. 2, 1775:--'What a discouraging reflection is it that
my father has in his possession a renunciation of my birthright, which I madly granted to him,
and which he has not the generosity to restore now that I am doing beyond his utmost hopes,
and that he may incommode and disgrace me by some strange settlements, while all this time
not a shilling is secured to my wife and children in case of my death!' Letters of Boswell, p. 216.

[1242] The technical term in Roman law for a building in good repair.

[1243] Which term I applied to all the heirs male. Boswell.

[1244] A misprint for 1776.

[1245] I had reminded him of his observation mentioned, ii. 261. BOSWELL.

[1246] The entail framed by my father with various judicious clauses, was settled by him and
me, settling the estate upon the heirs male of his grandfather, which I found had been already
done by my grandfather, imperfectly, but so as to be defeated only by selling the lands. I
was freed by Dr. Johnson from scruples of conscientious obligation, and could, therefore, gratify
my father. But my opinion and partiality of male succession, in its full extent, remained unshaken.
Yet let me not be thought harsh or unkind to daughters; for my notion is, that they should
be treated with great affection and tenderness, and always participate of the prosperity of
the family. BOSWELL.

[1247] Temple, in Popular Discontents (Works, iii. 62-64), examines the general dissatisfaction
with the judicature of the House of Lords. Till the end of Elizabeth's reign, he states, the
peers, who were few in number, were generally possessed of great estates which rendered them
less subject to corruption. As one remedy for the evil existing in his time, he suggests that
the Crown shall create no Baron, who shall not at the same time entail L4000 a year upon that
honour, whilst it continues in his family; a Viscount, L5000; an Earl, L6000; a Marquis, L7000;
and a Duke, L8000.

[1248] 'A cruel tyranny bathed in the blood of their Emperors upon every succession; a heap
of vassals and slaves; no nobles, no gentlemen, no freeman, no inheritance of land, no strip
of ancient families, [nullae stirpes antiquae].' Spedding Bacon, vii. 22.

[1249] 'Let me warn you very earnestly against scruples,' he wrote on March 5, of this year:--'I
am no friend to scruples,' he had said at St. Andrew's. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19. 'On his
many, men miserable, but few men good.' Croker's Boswell, p. 844.

[1250] A letter to him on the interesting subject of the family settlement, which I had read.
BOSWELL.

[1251] Paoli had given Boswell much the same advice. 'All this,' said Paoli, 'is melancholy.
I have also studied metaphysics. I know the arguments for fate and free-will, for the materiality
and immateriality of the soul, and even the subtle arguments for and against the existence
of matter. Ma lasciamo queste dispute ai oziosi. But let us leave these disputes to the idle.
Io tengo sempre fermo un gran pensiero. I hold always firm one great object. I never feel a
moment of despondency.' Boswell's Corsica, ed. 1879, p. 193. See post, March 14, 1781.

[1252] Johnson, in his letters to the Thrales during the year 1775, mentions this riding-school
eight or nine times. The person recommended was named Carter. Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 72) says
'the profit of the History has been applied to the establishment of a riding-school, that the
polite exercises might be taught, I know not with what success, in the University.'

[1253] I suppose the complaint was, that the trustees of the Oxford Press did not allow the
London booksellers a sufficient profit upon vending their publications. BOSWELL.

[1254] Cadell published The False Alarm and The Journey to the Hebrides. Gibbon described him
as 'That honest and liberal bookseller.' Stewart's Life of Robertson, p. 366.

[1255] I am happy in giving this full and clear statement to the publick, to vindicate, by
the authority of the greatest authour of his age, that respectable body of men, the Booksellers
of London, from vulgar reflections, as if their profits were exorbitant, when, in truth, Dr.
Johnson has here allowed them more than they usually demand.

[1256] 'Behind the house was a garden which he took delight in watering; a room on the ground-floor
was assigned to Mrs. Williams, and the whole of the two pair of stairs floor was made a repository
for his books; one of the rooms thereon being his study. Here, in the intervals of his residence
at Streatham, he received the visits of his friends, and to the most intimate of them sometimes
gave not inelegant dinners.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 531. He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Aug. 14,
1780:--'This is all that I have to tell you, except that I have three bunches of grapes on
a vine in my garden: at least this is all that I will now tell of my garden.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 178. This house was burnt down in 1819. Notes and Queries, 1st S., v. 233.

[1257] He said, when in Scotland, that he was Johnson of that Ilk. ROSWELL. See post, April
28, 1778, note.

[1258] See ante, ii. 229.

[1259] See vol. i. p. 375. BOSWELL. Boswell refers to the work of Dr. Cohausen of Coblentz,
Hermippus Redivivus. Dr. Campbell translated it (ante, i. 417), under the title of Hermippus
Redivivus, or the Sage's Triumph over Old Age and the Grave. Cohausen maintained that life
might be prolonged to 115 years by breathing the breath of healthy young women. He founded
his theory 'on a Roman inscription--AEsculapio et Sanitati L. Colodius Hermippus qui vixit
annos CXV. dies V. puellarum anhelitu.' He maintained that one of the most eligible conditions
of life was that of a Confessor of youthful nuns. Lowndes's Bibl. Man. p. 488, and Gent. Mag.
xiii. 279. I. D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature, ed. 1834, ii. 102) describes Campbell's
book as a 'curious banter on the hermetic philosophy and the universal medicine; the grave
irony is so closely kept up, that it deceived for a length of time the most learned. Campbell
assured a friend it was a mere jeu-d'-esprit.' Lord E. Fitzmaurice (Life of Shelburne, iii.
447) says that Ingenhousz, a Dutch physician who lived with Shelburne, combated in one of his
works the notion held by certain schoolmasters, that 'it was wholesome to inhale the air which
has passed through the lungs of their pupils, closing the windows in order purposely to facilitate
that operation.'

[1260] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24.

[1261] The privilege of perpetuating in a family an estate and arms indefeasibly from generation
to generation, is enjoyed by none of his Majesty's subjects except in Scotland, where the legal
fiction of fine and recovery is unknown. It is a privilege so proud, that I should think it
would be proper to have the exercise of it dependent on the royal prerogative. It seems absurd
to permit the power of perpetuating their representation, to men, who having had no eminent
merit, have truly no name. The King, as the impartial father of his people, would never refuse
to grant the privilege to those who deserved it. BOSWELL.

[1262] Boswell wrote to Temple about six weeks later:--'Murphy says he has read thirty pages
of Smith's Wealth, but says he shall read no more; Smith, too, is now of our Club. It has lost
its select merit.' Letters of Boswell, p. 233. Johnson can scarcely have read Smith; if he
did, it made no impression on him. His ignorance on many points as to what constitutes the
wealth of a nation remained as deep as ever.

[1263] Mr. Wedderburne. CROKER.

[1264] A similar bill had been thrown out sixteen years earlier by 194 to 84. 'A Bill for a
Militia in Scotland was not successful; nor could the disaffected there obtain this mode of
having their arms restored. Pitt had acquiesced; but the young Whigs attacked it with all their
force.' Walpole's Reign of George II, iii. 280. Lord Mountstuart's bill was thrown out by 112
to 95, the Ministry being in the minority. The arguments for and against it are stated in the
Ann. Reg. xix 140. See post, iii. i. Henry Mackenzie (Life of John Home, i. 26) says:--'The
Poker Club was instituted at a time when Scotland was refused a militia, and thought herself
affronted by the refusal. The name was chosen from a quaint sort of allusion to the principles
it was meant to excite, as a club to stir up the fire and spirit of the country.' See ante, p. 376.

[1265] 'Scotland paid only one fortieth to the land-tax, the very specific tax out of which
all the expenses of a militia were to be drawn.' Ann. Reg. xix. 141.

[1266] In a new edition of this book, which was published in the following year, the editor
states, that either 'through hurry or inattention some obscene jests had unluckily found a
place in the first edition.' See post, April 28, 1778.

[1267] See ante, ii. 338, note 2.

[1268] The number of the asterisks, taken with the term worthy friend, renders it almost certain
that Langton was meant. The story might, however, have been told of Reynolds, for he wrote
of Johnson:--'Truth, whether in great or little matters, he held sacred. From the violation
of truth, he said, in great things your character or your interest was affected; in lesser
things, your pleasure is equally destroyed. I remember, on his relating some incident, I added
something to his relation which I supposed might likewise have happened: "It would have been
a better story," says he, "if it had been so; but it was not."' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 457.
Mrs. Piozzi records (Anec. p. 116):--'"A story," says Johnson, "is a specimen of human manners,
and derives its sole value from its truth, When Foote has told me something, I dismiss it from
my mind like a passing shadow; when Reynolds tells me something, I consider myself as possessed
of an idea the more."'

[1269] Boswell felt this when, more than eight years earlier, he wrote:--'As I have related
Paoli's remarkable sayings, I declare upon honour that I have neither added nor diminished;
nay, so scrupulous have I been, that I would not make the smallest variation, even when my
friends thought it would be an improvement. I know with how much pleasure we read what is perfectly
authentick.' Boswell's Corsia, ed. 1879, p. 126. See post, iii. 209.

[1270] In his Life of Browne (Works, vi. 478) he sayd of 'innocent frauds':--'But no fraud
is innocent; for the confidence which makes the happiness of society is in some degree diminished
by every man whose practice is at variance with his words.' 'Mr. Tyers,' writes Murphy (Life,
p. 146), 'observed that Dr. Johnson always talked as if he was talking upon oath.' Compared
with Johnson's strictness, Rouseau's laxity is striking. After describing 'ces gens qu'on appelle
vrais dans le monde,' he continues;--'L'homme que j'appele vrai fait tout le contraire. En
choses parfaitnement indifferentes la verite qu'alors l'autre respecte si fort le touche fort
peu, et il ne se fera guere de scrupule d'amuser une compagnie par des faits controuve, dont
il ne resulte aucun jugement injuste ni pour ni contre qui que ce soit vivant ou mort.' Les
Reveries: IVine Promenade.

[1271] No doubt Mrs. Fermor (ante, p. 392.)

[1272] No. 110.

[1273] No. 52.

[1274] But see ante, ii. 365, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19.

[1275] See ante, ii. 8, and post, April 7, 1778.

[1276] Three weeks later, at his usual fast before Easter, Johnson recorded:--'I felt myself
very much disordered by emptiness, and called for tea with peevish and impatient eagerness.'
Pr. and Med. p. 147.

[1277] Of the use of spirituous liquors, he wrote (Works, vi. 26):--'The mischiefs arising
on every side from this compendious mode of drunkenness are enormous and insupportable, equally
to be found among the great and the mean; filling palaces with disquiet and distraction, harder
to be borne as it cannot be mentioned, and overwhelming multitudes with incurable diseases
and unpitied poverty.' Yet he found an excuse for drunkenness which few men but he could have
found. Stockdale (Memoirs, ii. 189) says that he heard Mrs. Williams 'wonder what pleasure
men can take in making beasts of themselves. "I wonder, Madam," replied Johnson, "that you
have not penetration enough to see the strong inducement to this excess; for he who makes a
beast of himself gets rid of the pain of being a man."'

[1278] Very likely Boswell. See post, under May 8, 1781, for a like instance. In 1775, under
a yew tree, he promised Temple to be sober. On Aug. 12, 1775, he wrote:--'My promise under
the solemn yew I have observed wonderfully, having never infringed it till, the other day,
a very jovial company of us dined at a tavern, and I unwarily exceeded my bottle of old Hock;
and having once broke over the pale, I run wild, but I did not get drunk. I was, however, intoxicated,
and very ill next day.' Letters of Boswell, p. 209. During his present visit to London he wrote:--'My
promise under the solemn yew was not religiously kept, because a little wine hurried me on
too much. The General [Paoli] has taken my word of honour that I shall not taste fermented
liquor for a year, that I may recover sobriety. I have kept this promise now about three weeks.
I was really growing a drunkard.' Ib p. 233. In 1778 he was for a short time a water drinker.
Post, April 28, 1778. His intemperance grew upon him, and at last carried him off. On Dec.
4, 1790, he wrote to Malone:--'Courtenay took my word and honour that till March 1 my allowance
of wine per diem should not exceed four good glasses at dinner, and a pint after it, and this
I have kept, though I have dined with Jack Wilkes, &c. On March 8, 1791, he wrote:--'Your friendly
admonition as to excess in wine has been often too applicable. As I am now free from my restriction
to Courtenay, I shall be much upon my guard; for, to tell the truth, I did go too deep the
day before yesterday.' Croker's Boswell, pp. 828, 829.

[1279] 'Mathematics are perhaps too much studied at our universities. This seems a science
to which the meanest intellects are equal. I forget who it is that says, "All men might understand
mathematics if they would."' Goldsmith's Present Stale of Polite Learning, ch. 13.

[1280] 'No, Sir,' he once said, 'people are not born with a particular genius for particular
employments or studies, for it would be like saying that a man could see a great way east,
but could not west. It is good sense applied with diligence to what was at first a mere accident,
and which by great application grew to be called by the generality of mankind a particular
genius.' Miss Reynolds's Recollections. Croker's Boswell, p. 833:--'Perhaps this is Miss Reynolds's
recollection of the following, in Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773':--JOHNSON. 'I could as
easily apply to law as to tragick poetry.' BOSWELL. 'Yet, Sir, you did apply to tragick poetry,
not to law.' JOHNSON. 'Because, Sir, I had not money to study law. Sir, the man who has vigour
may walk to the east just as well as to the west, if he happens to turn his head that way.'
'The true genius,' he wrote (Works, vii. 1), 'is a mind of large general powers, accidentally
determined to some particular direction.' Reynolds held the same doctrine, having got it no
doubt from Johnson. He held 'that the superiority attainable in any pursuit whatever does not
originate in an innate propensity of the mind to that pursuit in particular, but depends on
the general strength of the intellect, and on the intense and constant application of that
strength to a specific purpose. He regarded ambition as the cause of eminence, but accident
as pointing out the means.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. II. 'Porson insisted that all men are
born with abilities nearly equal. "Any one," he would say, "might become quite as good a critic
as I am, if he would only take the trouble to make himself so. I have made myself what I am
by intense labour."' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 305. Hume maintained the opposite. 'This forenoon,'
wrote Boswell on June 19, 1775, 'Mr. Hume came in. He did not say much. I only remember his
remark, that characters depend more on original formation than on the way we are educated;
"for," said he, "princes are educated uniformly, and yet how different are they! how different
was James the Second from Charles the Second!"' Letters of Boswell, p. 205. Boswell recorded,
two years earlier (Hebrides, Sept. 16):--'Dr. Johnson denied that any child was better than
another, but by difference of instruction; though, in consequence of greater attention being
paid to instruction by one child than another, and of a variety of imperceptible causes, such
as instruction being counteracted by servants, a notion was conceived that, of two children
equally well educated, one was naturally much worse than another.'

[1281] See ante, i. 348.

[1282] The grossness of naval men is shewn in Captain Mirvan, in Miss Burney's Evelina. In
her Diary, i. 358, she records:--'The more I see of sea-captains the less reason I have to
be ashamed of Captain Mirvan, for they have all so irresistible a propensity to wanton mischief--to
roasting beaus and detesting old women, that I quite rejoice I shewed the book to no one ere
printed, lest I should have been prevailed upon to soften his character.'

[1283] Baretti, in a MS. note in Piozzi Letters, i. 349, describes Gwyn as 'the Welsh architect
that built the bridge at Oxford.' He built Magdalen Bridge.

[1284] 'Whence,' asks Goldsmith, 'has proceeded the vain magnificence of expensive architecture
in our colleges? Is it that men study to more advantage in a palace than in a cell? One single
performance of taste or genius confers more real honour on its parent university than all the
labours of the chisel.' Present State of Polite Learning, ch. 13. Newton used to say of his
friend, the Earl of Pembroke, 'that he was a lover of stone dolls.' Brewster's Newton, ed.
1860, ii. 334.

[1285] Afterwards Lord Stowell. See the beginning of Boswell's Hebrides.

[1286] See ante, i. 446.

[1287] See ante, ii. 121, and post, Oct. 27, 1779.

[1288] See ante, p. 424.

[1289] See post, under April 4, 1781.

[1290] See ante, p. 315.

[1291] See ante, i. 398.

[1292] 'Hume told Cadell, the bookseller, that he had a great desire to be introduced to as
many of the persons who had written against him as could be collected. Accordingly, Dr. Douglas,
Dr. Adams, &c., were invited by Cadell to dine at his house, in order to meet Hume. They came;
and Dr. Price, who was of the party, assured me that they were all delighted with David.' Rogers's
Table Talk, p. 106.

[1293] Boswell, in his Corsica, ed. 1879, p. 204, uses a strange argument against infidelity.
'Belief is favourable to the human mind were it for nothing else but to furnish it entertainment.
An infidel, I should think, must frequently suffer from ennui.' In his Hebrides, Aug. 15, note,
he attacks Adam Smith for being 'so forgetful of human comfort as to give any countenance to
that dreary infidelity which would "make us poor indeed."'

[1294] 'JEMMY TWITCHER. Are we more dishonest than the rest of mankind? What we win, gentlemen,
is our own, by the law of arms and the right of conquest. CROOK-FINGER'D JACK. Where shall
we find such another set of practical philosophers, who to a man are above the fear of death?'
The Beggar's Opera, act ii. sc. i.

[1295] Boswell, I think, here aims a blow at Gibbon. He says (post, under March 19, 1781),
that 'Johnson had talked with some disgust of Mr. Gibbon's ugliness.' He wrote to Temple on
May 8, 1779:--'Gibbon is an ugly, affected, disgusting fellow, and poisons our literary club
to me.' He had before classed him among 'infidel wasps and venomous insects.' Letters of Boswell,
pp. 233, 242. The younger Coleman describes Gibbon as dressed 'in a suit of flowered velvet,
with a bag and sword.' Random Records, i. 121.

[1296] 'Formam quidem ipsam, Marce fili, et tamquam faciem honesti vides, "quae si oculis cerneretur,
mirabiles amores" ut ait Plato, "excitaret sapientiae."' Cicero, De Off. i. 5.

[1297] Of Beattie's attack on Hume, he said:--'Treating your adversary with respect, is striking
soft in a battle.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15.

[1298] When Gibbon entered Magdalen College in 1752, the ordinary commoners were already excluded.
'As a gentleman commoner,' he writes, 'I was admitted to the society of the fellows, and fondly
expected that some questions of literature would be the amusing and instructive topics of their
discourse. Their conversation stagnated in a round of college business, Tory politics, personal
anecdotes, and private scandal; their dull and deep potations excused the brisk intemperance
of youth; and their constitutional toasts were not expressive of the most lively loyalty for
the house of Hanover.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 53. In Jesse's edition of White's Selborne,
p. ii, it is stated that 'White, as long as his health allowed him, always attended the annual
election of Fellows at Oriel College, where the gentlemen-commoners were allowed the use of
the common-room after dinner. This liberty they seldom availed themselves of, except on the
occasion of Mr. White's visits; for such was his happy manner of telling a story that the room
was always filled when he was there.' He died in 1793.

[1299] 'So different are the colours of life as we look forward to the future, or backward
to the past, and so different the opinions and sentiments which this contrariety of appearance
naturally produces, that the conversation of the old and young ends generally with contempt
or pity on either side.... One generation is always the scorn and wonder of the other; and
the notions of the old and young are like liquors of different gravity and texture which never
can unite.' The Rambler, No. 69. A tendency of the same kind every mind must feel at the perusal
of Dryden's prefaces and Rymer's discourses.' Johnson's Works, vii. 303.

[1301] 'There is evidence of Phil. Jones's love of beer; for we find scribbled at the end of
the college buttery-books, "O yes, O yes, come forth, Phil. Jones, and answer to your charge
for exceeding the batells." His excess, perhaps, was in liquor.' Dr. Johnson: His Friends,
&c., p. 23.

[1302] See post, iii. 1.

[1303] Dr. Fisher, who was present, told Mr. Croker that 'he recollected one passage of the
conversation. Boswell quoted Quern Deus vult perdere, prius dementat, and asked where it was.
A pause. At last Dr. Chandler said, in Horace. Another pause. Then Fisher remarked that he
knew of no metre in Horace to which the words could be reduced: and Johnson said dictatorially,
"The young man is right."' See post, March 30, 1783. For another of Dr. Fisher's anecdotes,
see ante, p. 269. Mark Pattison recorded in his Diary in 1843 (Memoirs, p. 203), on the authority
of Mr. (now Cardinal) Newman:--'About 1770, the worst time in the University; a head of Oriel
then, who was continually obliged to be assisted to bed by his butler. Gaudies, a scene of
wild license. At Christ Church they dined at three, and sat regularly till chapel at nine.'
A gaudy is such a festival as the one in the text.

[1304] The author of the Commentary on the Psalms. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, note.

[1305] See ante, pp. 279, 283.

[1306] 'I have seen,' said Mr. Donne to Sir R. Drewry, 'a dreadful vision since I saw you.
I have seen my dear wife pass twice by me, through this room, with her hair hanging about her
shoulders, and a dead child in her arms.' He learnt that on the same day, and about the very
hour, after a long and dangerous labour, she had been delivered of a dead child. Walton's Life
of Dr. Donne, ed. 1838, p. 25.

[1307] 'Biographers so little regard the manners or behaviour of their heroes, that more knowledge
may be gained of a man's real character by a short conversation with one of his servants than
from a formal and studied narrative, begun with his pedigree, and ended with his funeral.'
The Rambler, No. 60. See post, iii. 71.

[1308] See post, iii. 112.

[1309] It has been mentioned to me by an accurate English friend, that Dr. Johnson could never
have used the phrase almost nothing, as not being English; and therefore I have put another
in its place. At the same time, I am not quite convinced it is not good English. For the best
writers use the phrase 'Little or nothing;' i.e. almost so little as to be nothing. BOSWELL.
Boswell might have left almost nothing in his text. Johnson used it in his writings, certainly
twice. 'It will add almost nothing to the expense.' Works, v. 307. 'I have read little, almost
nothing.' Pr. and Med. p. 176. Moreover, in a letter to Mrs. Aston, written on Nov. 5, 1779
(Croker's Boswell, p. 640), he says:--'Nothing almost is purchased.' In King Lear, act ii.
sc. 2, we have:--

'Nothing almost sees miracles But misery.'

[1310] 'Pope's fortune did not suffer his charity to be splendid and conspicuous; but he assisted
Dodsley with a hundred pounds, that he might open a shop.' Johnson's Works, viii. 318.

[1311] A Muse in Livery: or the Footman's Miscellany. 1732. A rhyme in the motto on the title-page
shows what a Cockney muse Dodsley's was. He writes:--

'But when I mount behind the coach, And bear aloft a flaming torch.'

The Preface is written with much good feeling.

[1312] James Dodsley, many years a bookseller in Pall Mall. He died Feb. 19, 1797. P. CUNNINGHAM.
He was living, therefore, when this anecdote was published.

[1313] Horace Walpole (Letters, iii. 135) says:--'You know how decent, humble, inoffensive
a creature Dodsley is; how little apt to forget or disguise his having been a footman.' Johnson
seems to refer to Dodsley in the following passage, written in 1756 (Works, v. 358):--'The
last century imagined that a man composing in his chariot was a new object of curiosity; but
how much would the wonder have been increased by a footman studying behind it.'

[1314] See ante, i. 417.

[1315] Yet surely it is a very useful work, and of wonderful research and labour for one man
to have executed. BOSWELL. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 17, 1773.

[1316] Two days earlier, Hume congratulated Gibbon on the first volume of his Decline and Fall:--'I
own that if I had not previously had the happiness of your personal acquaintance, such a performance
from an Englishman in our age would have given me some surprise. You may smile at this sentiment,
but as it seems to me that your countrymen, for almost a whole generation, have given themselves
up to barbarous and absurd faction, and have totally neglected all polite letters, I no longer
expected any valuable production ever to come from them.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 484.

[1317] Five weeks later Boswell used a different metaphor. 'I think it is right that as fast
as infidel wasps or venomous insects, whether creeping or flying, are hatched, they should
be crushed.' Letters of Boswell, p. 232. If the infidels were wasps to the orthodox, the orthodox
were hornets to the infidels. Gibbon wrote (Misc. (See ante, ii. 8, note 1.) I have little
doubt that in the following lines he refers to the attack thus made on him by Boswell and Johnson.
'Many years afterwards, when the name of Gibbon was become as notorious as that of Middleton,
it was industriously whispered at Oxford that the historian had formerly "turned Papist;" my
character stood exposed to the reproach of inconstancy.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 65.

[1319] Steele, in his Apology for Himself and his Writings (ed. 1714, p. 80), says of himself:--'He
first became an author when an ensign of the Guards, a way of life exposed to much irregularity,
and being thoroughly convinced of many things of which he often repented, and which he more
often repeated, he writ, for his own private use, a little book called the Christian Hero,
with a design principally to fix upon his own mind a strong impression of virtue and religion,
in opposition to a stronger propensity towards unwarrantable pleasures. This secret admonition
was too weak; he therefore printed the book with his name, in hopes that a standing testimony
against himself, and the eyes of the world, that is to say of his acquaintance, upon him in
a new light, might curb his desires, and make him ashamed of understanding and seeming to feel
what was virtuous, and living so quite contrary a life.'

[1320] 'A man,' no doubt, is Boswell himself.

[1321] '"I was sure when I read it that the preface to Baretti's Dialogues was Dr. Johnson's;
and that I made him confess." "Baretti's Dialogues! What are they about?" "A thimble, and a
spoon, and a knife, and a fork! They are the most absurd, and yet the most laughable things
you ever saw. They were written for Miss Thrale, and all the dialogues are between her and
him, except now and then a shovel and a poker, or a goose and a chair happen to step in."'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 263.

[1322] 'April 4, 1760. At present nothing is talked of, nothing admired, but what I cannot
help calling a very insipid and tedious performance; it is a kind of novel called The Life
and Opinions of Tristram Shandy; the great humour of which consists in the whole narration
always going backwards.' Walpole's Letters, iii. 298. 'March 7, 1761. The second and third
volumes of Tristram Shandy, the dregs of nonsense, have universally met the contempt they deserve.'
Ib 382. '"My good friend," said Dr. Farmer (ante, i. 368), one day in the parlour at Emanuel
College, "you young men seem very fond of this Tristram Shandy; but mark my words, however
much it may be talked about at present, yet, depend upon it, in the course of twenty years,
should any one wish to refer to it, he will be obliged to go to an antiquary to inquire for
it."' Croker's Boswell, ed. 1844, ii. 339. See ante, ii. 173, note 2, and 222.

[1323] Mrs. Rudd. She and the two brothers Perreau were charged with forgery. She was tried
first and acquitted, the verdict of the jury being 'not guilty, according to the evidence before
us.' The Ann. Reg. xviii. 231, adds:--'There were the loudest applauses on this acquittal almost
ever known in a court of justice.' 'The issue of Mrs. Rudd's trial was thought to involve the
fate of the Perreaus; and the popular fancy had taken the part of the woman as against the
men.' They were convicted and hanged, protesting their innocence. Letters of Boswell, pp. 223-230.
Boswell wrote to Temple on April 28:--'You know my curiosity and love of adventure; I have
got acquainted with the celebrated Mrs. Rudd.' Ib P. 233--Three days later, he wrote:-- 'Perhaps
the adventure with Mrs. Rudd is very foolish, notwithstanding Dr. Johnson's approbation.' Ib
p. 235. See post, iii. 79, and April 28, 1778.

[1324] See post, May 15, 1784, where Johnson says that Mrs. Montagu has 'a constant stream
of conversation,' and a second time allows that 'Burke is an extraordinary man.' Johnson writes
of 'a stream of melody.' Works, viii. 92. For Burke's conversation see post, April 7, 1778,
1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection, March 21, 1783, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15.

[1325] See ante, ii. 16.

[1326] According to Boswell's record in Boswelliana, p. 273, two sayings are here united. He
there writes, on the authority of Mr. Langton:--'Dr. Johnson had a very high opinion of Edmund
Burke. He said, "That fellow calls forth all my powers"; and once when he was out of spirits
and rather dejected he said, "Were I to see Burke now 'twould kill me."'

[1327] See ante, ii. 100, iii. 24, and under May 8, 1781.

[1328] In a note on the Dunciad, ii. 50, the author of this epigram is said to be Dr. Evans.

[1329] Capability Brown, as he was called. See post, Oct. 30, 1779.

[1330] Such an 'impudent dog' had Boswell himself been in Corsica. 'Before I was accustomed
to the Corsican hospitality,' he wrote. 'I sometimes forgot myself, and imagining I was in
a publick house, called for what I wanted, with the tone which one uses in calling to the waiters
at a tavern. I did so at Pino, asking for a variety of things at once, when Signora Tomasi
perceiving my mistake, looked in my face and smiled, saying with much calmness and good nature,
"una cosa dopo un altra, Signore. One thing after another, Sir."' Boswell's Corsica, ed. 1879,
p. 151. A Corsican gentleman, who knows the Tomasi family, told me that this reply is preserved
among them by tradition.

[1332] We happened to lie this night at the inn at Henley, where Shenstone wrote these lines.
BOSWELL. I give them as they are found in the corrected edition of his Works, published after
his death. In Dodsley's collection the stanza ran thus:--

'Whoe'er has travell'd life's dull round, Whate'er his various tour has been, May sigh to think
how oft he found His warmest welcome at an Inn.' BOSWELL.

[1333] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 29.

[1334] See Shenstone's Works, iii. 311. Rev. Richard Graves, author of The Spiritual Quixote.
He and Shenstone were fellow-students at Pembroke College, Oxford.

[1335] 'He too often makes use of the abstract for the concrete.' SHENSTONE. BOSWELL.

[1336] 'I asked him why he doated on a coach so, and received for answer, that in the first
place the company was shut in with him there, and could not escape as out of a room; in the
next place he heard all that was said in a carriage, where it was my turn to be deaf.' Piozzi's
Anec. p. 276. See post, iii, 5, 162. Gibbon, at the end of a journey in a post-chaise, wrote
(Misc. Works, i. 408):--'I am always so much delighted and improved with this union of easeand
motion, that, were not the expense enormous, I would travel every year some hundred miles,
more especially in England.'

[1337] Johnson (Works, viii. 406) tells the following 'ludicrous story' of The Fleece. 'Dodsley
the bookseller was one day mentioning it to a critical visitor with more expectation of success
than the other could easily admit. In the conversation the author's age was asked; and, being
represented as advanced in life, "He will," said the critic, "be buried in woollen."' To encourage
the trade in wool, an Act was passed requiring the dead to be buried in woollen, Burke refers
to this when he says of Lord Chatham, who was swathed in flannel owing to the gout:-- 'Like
a true obeyer of the laws, he will be buried in woollen.' Burke's Corres, ii. 201. Hawkins
(Life, p. 231) says:--'A portrait of Samuel Dyer [see post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection]
was painted by Sir Joshua, and from it a mezzotinto was scraped; the print whereof, as he was
little known, sold only to his friends. A singular use was made of it; Bell, the publisher
of The English Poets, caused an engraving to be made from it, and prefixed it to the poems
of Mr. John Dyer.'

[1338] Such is this little laughable incident, which has been often related. Dr. Percy, the
Bishop of Dromore, who was an intimate friend of Dr. Grainger, and has a particular regard
for his memory, has communicated to me the following explanation:--

'The passage in question was originally not liable to such a perversion; for the authour having
occasion in that part of his work to mention the havock made by rats and mice, had introduced
the subject in a kind of mock heroick, and a parody of Homer's battle of the frogs and mice,
invoking the Muse of the old Grecian bard in an elegant and well-turned manner. In that state
I had seen it; but afterwards, unknown to me and other friends, he had been persuaded, contrary
to his own better judgement, to alter it, so as to produce the unlucky effect above-mentioned.'

The above was written by the Bishop when he had not the Poem itself to recur to; and though
the account given was true of it at one period, yet as Dr. Grainger afterwards altered the
passage in question, the remarks in the text do not now apply to the printed poem.

The Bishop gives this character of Dr. Grainger:--'He was not only a man of genius and learning,
but had many excellent virtues; being one of the most generous, friendly, and benevolent men
I ever knew.' BOSWELL.

[1339] Dr. Johnson said to me, 'Percy, Sir, was angry with me for laughing at The Sugar-cane:
for he had a mind to make a great thing of Grainger's rats.' BOSWELL. Johnson helped Percy
in writing a review of this poem in 1764 (ante, i. 481).

[1340] In Poems by Christopher Smart, ed. 1752, p. 100. One line may serve as a sample of the
whole poem, Writing of 'Bacchus, God of hops,' the poet says:--

''Tis he shall gen'rate the buxom beer.'

[1341] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22.

[1342] Henley in Arden, thirteen miles from Birmingham.

[1343] Mr. Hector's house was in the Square--now known as the Old Square. It afterwards formed
a part of the Stork Hotel, but it was pulled down when Corporation Street was made. A marble
tablet had been placed on the house at the suggestion of the late Mr. George Dawson, marking
the spot where 'Edmund Hector was the host, Samuel Johnson the guest.' This tablet, together
with the wainscoting, the door, and the mantelpiece of one of the rooms, was set up in Aston
Hall, at the Johnson Centenary, in a room that is to be known as Dr. Johnson's Room.

[1344] My worthy friend Mr. Langton, to whom I am under innumerable obligations in the course
of my Johnsonian History, has furnished me with a droll illustration about this question. An
honest carpenter, after giving some anecdote in his presence of the ill-treatment which he
had received from a clergyman's wife, who was a noted termagant, and whom he accused of unjust
dealing in some transaction with him, added, 'I took care to let her know what I thought of
her.' And being asked, 'What did you say?' answered, 'I told her she was a scoundrel.' BOSWELL.

[1345] 'As to the baptism of infants, it is a mere human tradition, for which neither precept
nor practice is to be found in all the Scripture.' Barclay's Apology, Proposition xii, ed.
1703, p. 409.

[1346] John iii. 30. BOSWELL.

[1347] Mr. Seward (Anec. ii. 223) says that 'Dr. Johnson always supposed that Mr. Richardson
had Mr. Nelson in his thoughts when he delineated the character of Sir Charles Grandison.'
Robert Nelson was born in 1656, and died in 1715.

[1348] 'Mr. Arkwright pronounced Johnson to be the only person who on a first view understood
both the principle and powers of machinery.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 215. Arthur Young,
who visited Birmingham in 1768, writes:--'I was nowhere more disappointed than at Birmingham,
where I could not gain any intelligence even of the most common nature, through the excessive
jealousy of the manufacturers. It seems the French have carried off several of their fabricks,
and thereby injured the town not a little. This makes them so cautious that they will show
strangers scarce anything.' Tour through the North of England, iii. 279.

[1349] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale (year not given):--'I have passed one day at Birmingham
with my old friend Hector--there's a name--and his sister, an old love. My mistress is grown
much older than my friend,

---"O quid habes illius, illius Quae spirabat amores Quae me surpuerat mihi."'

'Of her, of her what now remains, Who breathed the loves, who charmed the swains, And snatched
me from my heart?'

FRANCIS, Horace, Odes, iv. 13. 18. Piozzi Letters, i. 290.

[1350] Some years later he wrote:--'Mrs. Careless took me under her care, and told me when
I had tea enough.' Ib. ii. 205.

[1351] See ante, ii. 362, note 3.

[1352] Johnson, in a letter to Hector, on March 7 of this year, described Congreve as 'very
dull, very valetudinary, and very recluse, willing, I am afraid, to forget the world, and content
to be forgotten by it, to repose in that sullen sensuality into which men naturally sink who
think disease a justification of indulgence, and converse only with those who hope to prosper
by indulging them ... Infirmity will come, but let us not invite it; indulgence will allure
us, but let us turn resolutely away. Time cannot always be defeated, but let us not yield till
we are conquered.' Notes and Queries, 6th S., iii. 401.

[1353] In the same letter he said:--'I hope dear Mrs. Careless is well, and now and then does
not disdain to mention my name. It is happy when a brother and sister live to pass their time
at our age together. I have nobody to whom I can talk of my first years--when I do to Lichfield,
I see the old places but find nobody that enjoyed them with me.'

[1354] I went through the house where my illustrious friend was born, with a reverence with
which it doubtless will long be visited. An engraved view of it, with the adjacent buildings,
is in The Gent. Mag. for Feb. 1875. BOSWELL.

[1355] The scene of Farquhar's Beaux Stratagem is laid in Lichfield. The passage in which the
ale is praised begins as follows:--

'Aimwell. I have heard your town of Lichfield much famed for ale; I think I'll taste that.

'Boniface, Sir, I have now in my cellar ten tun of the best ale in Staffordshire; 'tis smooth
as oil, sweet as milk, clear as amber, and strong as brandy; and will be just fourteen year
old the fifth day of next March, old style.' Act i. sc. i. See post, April 20, 1781.

[1356] Though his letters to her are very affectionate, yet what he wrote of her to Mrs. Thrale
shews that her love for him was not strong. Thus he writes:--'July 20, 1767. Miss Lucy is more
kind and civil than I expected.' Piozzi Letters, i. 4. 'July 17, 1771. Lucy is a philosopher,
and considers me as one of the external and accidental things that are to be taken and left
without emotion. If I could learn of Lucy, would it be better? Will you teach me?' Ib p. 46.
'Aug. 1, 1775. This was to have been my last letter from this place, but Lucy says I must not
go this week. Fits of tenderness with Mrs. Lucy are not common, but she seems now to have a
little paroxysm, and I was not willing to counteract it.' Ib p. 293. 'Oct. 27, 1781. Poor Lucy's
illness has left her very deaf, and I think, very inarticulate ... But she seems to like me
better than she did.' Ib ii. 208. 'Oct. 31, 1781. Poor Lucy's health is very much broken ...
Her mental powers are not impaired, and her social virtues seem to increase. She never was
so civil to me before.' Ib p. 211. On his mother's death he had written to her:--'Every heart
must lean to somebody, and I have nobody but you.' Ante i. 515.

[1357] See ante, p. 311.

[1358] See post, iii. 131.

[1359] Boswell varies Johnson's definition, which was 'a grain which in England is generally
given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people.' ante, i. 294, note 8.

[1360] '"I remember," said Dr. Johnson, "when all the decent people in Lichfield got drunk
every night."' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19. See post, iii. 77.

[1361] He had to allow that in literature they were behind the age. Nearly four years after
the publication of Evelina, he wrote:--'Whatever Burney [by Burney he meant Miss Burney] may
think of the celerity of fame, the name of Evelina had never been heard at Lichfield till I
brought it. I am afraid my dear townsmen will be mentioned in future days as the last part
of this nation that was civilised. But the days of darkness are soon to be at an end; the reading
society ordered it to be procured this week.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 221.

[1362] See ante, ii. 159.

[1363] Garrick himself, like the Lichfieldians, always said--shupreme, shuperior. BURNEY.

[1364] Johnson did not always speak so disrespectfully of Birmingham. In his Taxation no Tyranny
(Works, vi. 228), he wrote:--'The traders of Birmingham have rescued themselves from all imputation
of narrow selfishness by a manly recommendation to Parliament of the rights and dignity of
their native country.' The boobies in this case were sound Tories.

[1365] This play was Gibber's Hob; or The Country Wake, with additions, which in its turn was
Dogget's Country Wake reduced. Reed's Biog. Dram. ii. 307.

[1366] Boswell says, post, under Sept. 30, 1783, that 'Johnson had thought more upon the subject
of acting than might be generally supposed.'

[1367] A nice observer of the female form. CROKER. Terence, Eun. iii. 5.

[1368] In Farquhar's Comedy of Sir Harry Wildair.

[1369] Gilbert Walmesley, ante, i. 81

[1370] See ante, i. 83.

[1371] Cradock (Memoirs i. 74) says that in the Cathedral porch, a gentleman, 'who might, perhaps,
be too ambitious to be thought an acquaintance of the great Literary Oracle, ventured to say,
"Dr. Johnson, we have had a most excellent discourse to day," to which he replied, "That may
be, Sir, but it is impossible for you to know it."'

[1372] The Tempest, act iv., sc. 1.

[1373] See post, iii. 151.

[1374] Johnson, in 1763, advising Miss Porter to rent a house, said:--'You might have the Palace
for twenty pounds.' Croker's Boswell, p. 145.

[1375] Boswell, after his book was published, quarrelled with Miss Seward. He said that he
was forced to examine these communications 'with much caution. They were tinctured with a strong
prejudice against Johnson.' His book, he continued, was meant to be 'a real history and not
a novel,' so that he had 'to suppress all erroneous particulars, however entertaining.' He
accused her of attacking Johnson with malevolence. Gent. Mag. 1793, p. 1009. For Boswell's
second meeting with her, see post, iii. 284.

[1376] A Signor Recupero had noticed on Etna, the thickness of each stratum of earth between
the several strata of lava. 'He tells me,' wrote Brydone, 'he is exceedingly embarrassed by
these discoveries in writing the history of the mountain. That Moses hangs like a dead weight
upon him, and blunts all his zeal for inquiry; for that really he has not the conscience to
make his mountain so young as that prophet makes the world. The bishop, who is strenuously
orthodox--for it is an excellent see--has already warned him to be upon his guard, and not
to pretend to be a better natural historian than Moses.' Brydone's Tour, i. 141.

[1377] He wrote:--'Mr. Boswell is with me, but I will take care that he shall hinder no business,
nor shall he know more than you would have him.' Mr. Morison's Collection of Autographs, vol. ii.

[1378] 'March 23, 1776. Master Thrale, son of Mr. Thrale, member for the Borough, suddenly
before his father's door.' Gent. Mag. 1776, p. 142.

[1379] See post, iii. 95.

[1380] 'Sir,' he said, 'I would walk to the extent of the diameter of the earth to save Beauclerk'
(post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection). He had written of the boy the previous summer:--'Pray
give my service to my dear friend Harry, and tell him that Mr. Murphy does not love him better
than I do.' Piozzi Letters, i. 262.

[1381] See an accurate and animated statement of Mr. Gastrel's barbarity, by Mr. Malone, in
a note on Some account of the Life of William Shakspeare, prefixed to his admirable edition
of that poet's works, vol. i. p. 118. BOSWELL.

[1382] See Prior's Life of Malone, p. 142.

[1383] Piozzi Letters, i. 307.

[1384] See post, iii. 18, note 1.

[1385] Mr. Hoole wrote of Johnson's last days:--'Being asked unnecessary and frivolous questions,
he said he often thought of Macbeth [act iii. sc. 4]--"Question enrages him."' Croker's Boswell,
p. 843. See post, iii. 57, 268.

[1386] Sir Fletcher Norton, afterwards Speaker of the House of Commons, and in 1782 created
Baron Grantley. MALONE. For Norton's ignorance, see ante, ii. 91. Walpole (Letters, iv. 124)
described him as 'a tough enemy; I don't mean in parts or argument, but one that makes an excellent
bull-dog.' When in 1770 he was made Speaker, Walpole wrote:--'Nothing can exceed the badness
of his character, even in this bad age.' Ib v. 217. In his Memoirs of the Reign of George III,
i. 240, Walpole says:--'It was known that in private causes he took money from both parties.'
Horne (afterwards Horne Tooke) charged Norton with this practice; Parl. Hist. xvii. 1010; and
so did Junius in his Letter xxxix. Churchill, in The Duellist (Poems, ed. 1766, ii. 87), writing
of him, says:--

'How often... Hath he ta'en briefs on false pretence, and undertaken the defence of trusting
fools, whom in the end He meant to ruin, not defend.'

Lord Eldon said that 'he was much known by the name of Sir Bull-face Double Fee.' He added
that 'he was not a lawyer.' Twiss's Eldon, iii. 98. 'Acting, it was supposed from resentment,
having been refused a peerage,' he made on May 7, 1777, a bold speech to the King on presenting
the Civil List Bill. 'He told him that his faithful Commons, labouring under burthens almost
too heavy to be borne, had granted him a very great additional revenue--great beyond example,
great beyond his Majesty's highest wants.' Parl. Hist. xix. 213, and Walpole's Journal of the
Reign of George III, ii. 113.

[1387] Burns's Holy Willie, like Boswell, was an Ayrshire man.

[1388] Johnson, on May 16, wrote of him to Mrs. Thrale:--'He has his head as full as yours
at an election. Livings and preferments, as if he were in want with twenty children, run in
his head. But a man must have his head on something, small or great.' Piozzi Letters, i. 325.

[1389] Johnson wrote on May 25, 1780 (Piozzi Letters, ii. 136):'---- is come to town, brisk
and vigorous, fierce and fell, to drive on his lawsuit. Nothing in all life now can be more
profligater than what he is; and if, in case, that so be, that they persist for to resist him,
he is resolved not to spare no money, nor no time.' Taylor, no doubt, is meant, and Baretti,
in a marginal note, says:--'This was the elegant phraseology of that Doctor.' See post, iii. 180.

[1390] See ante, p. 460.

[1391] He did not hold with Steele, who in The Spectator, No. 153, writes:--'It was prettily
said, "He that would be long an old man must begin early to be one."' Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p.
275) says that 'saying of the old philosopher, that he who wants least is most like the gods
who want nothing, was a favourite sentence with Dr. Johnson, who required less attendance,
sick or well, than ever I saw any human creature.'

[1392] Dr. Butter, of Derby, is mentioned post, iii. 163, and under May 8, 1781.

[1393] Andrew Stuart's Letters to Lord Mansfield (ante, ii. 229).

[1394] Johnson was thinking of Charles's meeting with the King of Poland. 'Charles XII. etait
en grosses bottes, ayant pour cravate un taffetas noir qui lui serrait le cou; son habit etait,
comme a l'ordinaire, d'un gros drap bleu, avec des boutons de cuivre dore.' Voltaire's Works,
ed. 1819, xx. 123.

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

