The common English dormouse is a most charming little animal, and a great pet with children.
I have had several, and possess a pair now which are very tame. They are elegant little creatures,
about three inches long, with tails two and a-half inches; soft deep fur of a pale reddish-tawny
above, pale yellowish-fawn below, and white on the chest. The eyes are large, lustrous, and
jet-black. The tails of some are slightly tufted at the end. They are quite free from the objectionable
smell of mice. In their habits they are nocturnal, sleeping all day and becoming very lively
at night. I feed mine on nuts, and give them a slice of apple every evening; no water to drink,
unless succulent fruits are not to be had, and then sparingly. The dormouse in its wild state
lives on fruits, seeds, nuts and buds. In cold countries it hibernates, previous to which it
becomes very fat. It makes for itself a little globular nest of twigs, grass, and moss, pine-needles,
and leaves, in which it passes the winter in a torpid state. "The dormouse lives in small societies
in thickets and hedgerows, where it is as active in its way amongst the bushes and undergrowth
as its cousin the squirrel upon the larger trees. Among the small twigs and branches of the
shrubs and small trees the dormice climb with wonderful adroitness, often, indeed, hanging
by their hind feet from a twig, in order to reach and operate on a fruit or a nut which is
otherwise inaccessible, and running along the lower surface of a branch with the activity and
certainty of a monkey" (Dallas). This little animal is supposed to breed twice in the year--in
spring and autumn. It is doubtful whether we have any true Myoxidae in India, unless Mus gliroides
should turn out to be a Myoxus. The following is mentioned in Blanford's 'Eastern Persia':
Myoxus pictus--new species, I think; I regret I have not the book by me at present--also Myoxus
dryas, of which I find a pencil note in my papers. Mouse-red on the back, white belly with
a rufous band between; white forehead; a black stripe from the nose to the ears, passing through
the eye.

APPENDIX B.

The above illustration was by accident omitted from the text.

APPENDIX C.

NOTES ON SOME OF THE FOREGOING SPECIES.

The Slow Loris, No 28.--This creature sometimes assumes the erect posture, though in general
it creeps. The following illustration shows an attitude observed and sketched by Captain Tickell,
as the animal was about to seize a cockroach. When it had approached within ten or twelve inches,
it drew its hind feet gradually forward until almost under its chest; it then cautiously and
slowly raised itself up into a standing position, balancing itself awkwardly with its uplifted
arms; and then, to his astonishment, flung itself, not upon the insect, which was off "like
an arrow from a Tartar's bow," but on the spot which it had, half a second before, tenanted.

Trade Statistics of Fur-skins, Mustelidae.--The Philadelphia Times, in an article on furs,
says that the best sealskins come from the antarctic waters, principally from the Shetland
Islands. New York receives the bulk of American skins, which are shipped to various ports.
London is the great centre of the fur trade of the world. In the United States the sea-bear
of the north has the most valuable skin. Since 1862 over 500,000 have been killed on Behring
Island alone. In 1867 there were 27,500 sea-bears killed; in 1871 there was a very large decrease,
only 3,614 being killed. There were 26,960 killed in 1876; and in 1880 the number killed was
48,504, a large increase. Sea-otter fur is about as expensive as any, and some 48,000 skins
are used yearly. Over 100,000 marten or Russian sable skins are annually used. Only about 2,000
silver foxes are caught every year; and about 6,500 blue foxes. Other fox skins are used more
or less. About 600 tiger skins are used yearly, over 11,000 wild cat skins, and a very large
trade is being carried on in house cat skins. About 350,000 skunk and 42,000 monkey skins are
utilised annually. The trade in ermine skins is falling off, as is also the trade in chinchilla.
About 3,000,000 South American nutrias are killed every year, and a very large business is
carried on in musk-rat skins. About 15,000 each of American bear and buffalo skins were used
last year. There are also used each year about 3,000,000 lamb, 5,000,000 rabbit, 6,000,000
squirrel, and 620,000 filch skins; also 195,000 European hamster, and nearly 5,000,000 European
and Asiatic hares.

Tigers, No. 201.--Since writing on the subject of the size of tigers I have received the following
extract from a letter addressed to the editor of The Asian. Both the animals were measured
on the ground before being skinned, and in the presence of all whose names are given:--

"Tiger shot on the 6th of July, 1882. Party present: C. A. Shillingford, Esq.; J. L. Shillingford,
Esq.; F. A. Shillingford, Esq.; A. J. Shillingford, Esq. Length of head, 1 ft. 8-1/2 in.; body,
5 ft. 6-1/2 in.; tail, 3 ft. 6-1/2 in.; total length, 10 ft. 9-1/2 in. Height at shoulder,
3 ft. 7 in.

"Tiger shot on the 17th of March, 1883. Party present: The Earl of Yarborough; A. E. Fellowes,
Esq.; Col. R. C. Money, B.S.C.; Capt. C. H. Mayne, A.D.C.; Lieut. R. Money; J. D. Shillingford,
Esq. Length of head, 1 ft. 8 in.; body, 5 ft. 7 in.; tail, 3 ft. 5-1/2 in.; total length, 10
ft. 8-1/2 in. Height at shoulder, 3 ft. 8-1/2 in.; girth of head round jaw, 3 ft. 1-1/2 in.;
girth of body round chest, 4 ft. 7 in.

"The latter animal, though not so long as the former, was the larger animal of the two, being
more massively built, and by far the finer specimen of a tiger. He was shot by Mr. Fellowes
while out shooting in the Maharajah of Darbhanga's hunt in the Morung Terai."

The following is an extract from a letter lately received by me from General Sir Charles Reid,
K.C.B., with reference to an enormous tiger killed by him:--

"I had a tiger in the Exhibition of 1862, and which is now in the museum at Leeds, which was
the largest tiger I ever killed or ever saw. As he lay on the ground he measured 12 feet 2
inches--his height I did not measure--from the tip of one ear to the tip of the other 19-1/2
inches. I never took skull measurements, nor did I ever weigh a tiger. I had another in the
International Exhibition, which measured 11-1/2 feet fair measurement as he lay on the ground.
The one at Leeds 12 feet 2 inches, as before mentioned, is not now more than 11 feet 6 inches.
Mr. Ward was not satisfied with the Indian curing, and had it done over again, and it shrunk
nearly a foot. The three tigers[41] mentioned are the largest I ever killed--all Dhoon tigers."

[Footnote 41: The third tiger is one which Sir Charles Reid has had set up, and is now in his
house; it measured, as he lay on the ground, 10 ft. 6 in. He then goes on to say that his father-in-law
had killed in the Dhoon four or five tigers over 11 feet, and that the late Sir Andrew Waugh
told him he had killed one in the same place 13 feet. He says: "I believe the Dhoon tigers
are the largest and finest beasts that are found in any part of India." Their coats are longer
and thicker also.]

Elephants, No. 425--The two Indian elephants now in the Zoological Society's Gardens, in Regent's
Park, are interesting examples of the growth of these animals in captivity. I regret extremely
that I have not been able to get accurate statistics regarding them before leaving England;
I was obliged to put off several proposed visits to the Gardens in consequence of ill health,
and am now correcting the final proof-sheets of this work on board ship, preparatory to posting
them at Suez, so I must trust to memory for what I heard concerning them.

The large male, Jung Pershad, must be close upon nine feet high, and the female, Suffa Kulli,
at least seven feet; and I was astonished to find that they were the same that I had seen as
little things in the Prince of Wales's collection in 1876. Suffa Kulli's age is not more than
fifteen, yet she has been in a fair way of becoming a mother. There was no doubt as to the
possibility, and she seemed to show some signs of it, but it ended in disappointment; however
it is hoped that she will yet prove that these noble animals may be bred in captivity.

Osteology of the feet in Ruminantia, Artiodactyla--The following illustrations were inadvertently
omitted from the text in the section on the Artiodactyla.

Wild Boar, No. 434.--A few days before leaving England, I called to say good-bye to an old
friend well known in Calcutta and Lower Bengal, Dr. Charles Palmer. He asked me whether I had
ever heard of a boar killing a tiger, and, on my answering in the affirmative, he told me he
had just heard from his son, who had witnessed a fight between these two animals, in which
the boar came off victorious, leaving his antagonist dead on the field.

Ovis Polii, No. 438.--Mr. Carter in one of his letters to me says: "I see that you make the
biggest horns of Ovis Polii 53 inches from tip to tip. In a photo of one brought down by the
Yarkhand Expedition, which had a foot rule laid close, so as to scale it, the distance from
tip to tip is nearly five feet."

I do not know which particular head is referred to, but two out of the three measurements given
by me were of the finest heads brought down by the Expedition. There may have been a smaller
pair with a wider spread, as the 73-inch horns I also mention, and which Sir Victor Brooke,
to whom I sent a photograph, tells me is the finest head he has heard of, has only a spread
of 48 inches.

Ovis cycloceros, No. 443.--I gave from 25 to 30 inches as an average size for the horns of
this species, but Captain W. Cotton, F.Z.S., writes to me that he sent home a pair of ovrial
horns from Cabul, 35-1/2 inches, and that there is a pair in the R.A. mess at Attock 38-1/2
inches, but very thin. They were looted in the Jowaki campaign. This sheep has bred freely
in the Zoological Society's Gardens, and two hybrids have been born there from a male of this
species and the Corsican mouflon, Ovis musimon.

I mentioned that there is in the Gardens a specimen of Ovis Blanfordi. I see by the Society's
list that this was presented by Captain Cotton; the habitat given is Afghanistan.

The Wild Goat of Asia Minor, No. 448.--Mr. Carter writes to me: "In one of your letters you
mention the Scind ibex, which is a wild goat. I have a photo of a head 31 inches round curve,
but Mr. Inverarity, barrister, Bombay, says he has seen one 52-1/2. The animal is not much
bigger than the black buck." This last agrees with the estimate I formed from the specimens
in the Indian Museum, Calcutta.

Tetraceros sub-quadricornutus, No. 463.--It is doubtful whether Elliot's antelope should stand
as a separate species; Blyth was against it, and Jerdon followed him, and I incline to think
that it is only a variety. Dr. Sclater, to whom I mentioned the subject, appeared to me to
agree in this view, but I see he includes it in his list of the Society's mammals. Being adverse
to the multiplication of species, I gave it the benefit of the doubt, and included it with
T. quadricornis; but, as I have received one or two letters from writers whose opinions are
entitled to consideration, I mention them here, merely stating that I still feel inclined to
doubt the propriety of promoting sub-quadricornutus to the dignity of a species. Dr. Gray was
certainly of opinion it was separate; but then, great naturalist as he was, his peculiar foible
was minute sub-division.

The claims of Elliot's antelope to separate rank are: absence of the anterior horns, or with
only a trace; smaller size; lighter colour; but even the larger, darker quadricornis is sometimes
without the anterior horns; and, unless some other marked difference is found in the skull,
it is hardly sufficient to warrant separation. However, I will give what others say on the subject.

"I can scarcely agree with you as to Elliot's antelope not being a good species, I have therefore
taken the trouble of having a most accurate and full-size sketch of the skull of one made,
and if you will compare it with those of the ordinary quadricornis I think you will see a well-marked
difference. Dr. Gray wrote to me, and said that there was the recognised species of sub-quadricornutus."--Letter
from Mr. H. R. P. Carter, "Smoothbore" of the Field.

The following is an extract from a letter signed "Bheel," addressed to the editor of The Asian,
which appeared in that paper:--

"In the jungles of Rajputana, especially about the Arravelli Range, I have shot repeatedly
very small, exceedingly shy deer, called by the Bheels and shikaries in this part 'bhutar.'
They are very much smaller than the four-horned antelope, having very sharp thin horns about
two inches in length, which are perfectly smooth, as if polished, and black. The colour of
the skin is light brown, somewhat like a chinkara, white inside the limbs and under the belly.
The hair on the skin is short, smooth and glossy. The feet are exceedingly small, about one-third
in size smaller than that of the four-horned antelope. They are very retiring little creatures,
and very difficult to bag. They run, or, more appropriately, bound with amazing swiftness when
disturbed, and disappear like some passing shadow. These little deer live on the lower spurs
of the hills, and are generally found in pairs. They are very plump, and appear to be always
in good condition. The last one I shot was last year. The females are hornless.

"The four-horned antelope is described accurately by Mr. Sterndale, only that, in my humble
opinion, I do not consider it to be the smallest of the ruminant species. The 'Bheel' name
for this creature is 'fonkra.' It is found in the thick jungles at the foot of the hills. It
selects some secluded spot, which it does not desert when disturbed, returning invariably to
its hiding-place when the coast is clear. I noticed this very particularly. The hair of the
'fonkra' is comparatively much longer than the bhutar's, and the colour is a great deal darker.
Could Mr. Sterndale kindly let me know the Latin name for the 'bhutar'? I am sure it can't
be Cervulus aureus (kakur, or barking deer), because the colour given of this deer is a beautiful
bright glossy red or chesnut, while, as I have mentioned above, the colour of the bhutar is
light brown."

"Bheel's" "bhutar" is evidently Elliot's sub-quadricornutus.

The Gaur, No. 464.--Jerdon doubted the existence of this animal in the Himalayan Terai, according
to Hodgson's assertion; but Hodgson was right, for I have a letter before me which I received
some time back from Dr. W. Forsyth, stating that a few days previously a companion of his shot
a large solitary bull (6 feet 1 inch at the shoulder) in the Terai, and he himself knocked
one and lost another the day before he wrote. The local name is gauri-gai.

I also received a letter through the columns of The Asian from "Snapshot," vouching for the
existence of the gaur in the Darjeeling Terai.

Another correspondent of The Asian writes regarding the naming of this species:--

"In referring to Mr. Sterndale's descriptions of the gaur and gayal, in your issues of the
28th March and 11th April, I trust that that gentleman will not be offended by my making a
few remarks on the subject, and that he will set me right if I am in the wrong. I see that
he has perpetuated what appears to my unscientific self a mistake on the part of the old writers--Colebrooke,
Buchanan, Trail, and others, who I fancy got confused, and mixed up the animals. The local
name for the Central Indian ox is over a large tract of country the gayal, or gyll; and this,
being the animal with the peculiar frontal development, was most probably named bos, or Gavaeus
frontalis, whilst the mithun, or Eastern Bengal animal, was the gaur. It seems to me, therefore,
that the names should be transposed. Will Mr. Sterndale consider this, if he has not already
done so; and, if I am wrong, tell me why the animal with peculiar frontal development, and
called the gayal locally, should not have been named frontalis, whilst the animal called mithun,
with nothing peculiar in his frontal development, is so called?

"Orissa, April 15th, 1882. "CHAMPSE.

"P.S.--Do any of the Eastern Bengal races call this mithun gayal?"

I think Hodgson's name Bibos cavifrons is a sufficient proof that Gavaeus gaurus is applicable
to the animal with the high frontal crest, which is the species inhabiting the Himalayan Terai,
and is locally known as the gaur, or gauri-gai. It is known as gayal in some parts of India,
but, where the people are familiar with the mithun, the gaur is called asl'gayal, from whence
Horsfield's name Bibos asseel. Probably the mithun was called frontalis, under ignorance of
a species with a still greater frontal development.

Gavaeus frontalis interbreeds freely with domesticated cattle of all kinds. In the Society's
Gardens are several hybrids between this and Bos Indicus, one of which hybrids again interbred
with American bison (Bison Americanus), the progeny being one-half bison, and one-quarter each
frontalis and Indicus.

APPENDIX D.

As many specimens are spoilt by either insufficient curing, or curing by wrong methods, I have
asked Mr. Geo. F. Butt, F.Z.S., who was for many years manager to Edwin Ward, whom he has now
succeeded, to give me a page or two of useful hints on the preservation of skins. The following
notes are what he has kindly placed at my disposal. I know of no one I can more strongly recommend
for good work than Mr. Butt. Some of his groups are works of art, with most lifelike finish.
I have just seen a bear set up by him which seems almost to breathe.

NOTES ON SKINNING THE MAMMALIA AND THE PRESERVATION OF SKINS. By GEO. F. BUTT, F.Z.S., Naturalist
to the Royal Family, 49, Wigmore Street, London, W.

The quadruped killed, the first and important step is to plug up the nostrils and throat with
cotton-wool or tow, as also any wound from which blood may escape. Place the animal on its
back, make a longitudinal incision with the knife at the lower part of the belly (the vent),
and thence in as straight a line as possible extending to the chin bone, taking particular
care that during the operation the hair is carefully divided and not cut. Vertical incisions
may then be made extending down the inside of each leg to the claws. The skin can then be turned
back in every direction as far as the extent of the incisions will admit of--the legs may now
be freed from the skin. Next make a straight incision down the under part of the tail to the
tip, turn the skin back until it is free. Having executed this, there remains only to remove
the skin from the back and head; to do this place the carcase on its side, and with the scalpel
carefully separate the skin by drawing it towards the head, in skinning which care being taken
to cut the ears as close to the skull as possible, leaving the cartilage in the skin; the eyelids,
also nose and lips, should be carefully skinned without injury. The skin is now free from the
carcase. Turn the ears inside out, the nostrils, lips, and feet, removing all cartilage and flesh.

Place the skin open on the ground with the fur side down, and remove the flesh and pieces of
fat adhering; scrape the skin well, so as to get away all the loose particles of under-skin
or pelt. When this has been thoroughly done, take powdered alum plentifully, and, with a very
small quantity of common salt, rub well into the skin, especially into the ears, nostrils,
lips, and feet, so that every portion of the skin is powerfully impregnated. Allow the skin
to lie in this condition for an hour or so, then place it on a line or branch to dry. The operation
should be carried on in the shade, if possible.

If the specimen is not for stuffing it may be pegged out to dry on the ground, but in no one
instance should a skin be unduly strained out of shape, which is often done in order to make
it appear larger than it really is, a mistake which is very common.

When this operation is completed, and the skin dry, it is ready for packing, and should be
folded, with the fur or hair inside, and placed in a sound box or case well protected against
the visits of ants, beetles, or moth.

Where it is intended that the animal should be ultimately stuffed whole, it is necessary to
preserve the leg bones. These should be separated from the trunk at the os humeri or shoulder-joint,
and at the os femoris or thigh bones; these bones cleanse from flesh.

The skull in every instance should be preserved: remove the flesh and brain; to do this place
the skull in boiling water for five or ten minutes--in the case of small skulls for five minutes
only, care being taken that the teeth are not lost. In packing skulls each one should be tied
up in paper, marked with a corresponding number to the skin to which it belongs, and packed
firmly, to prevent rolling about, the result of which is often broken teeth and disappointment.

Another excellent method for the preservation of skins of mammalia, where convenience will
permit, and which can be followed with confidence, is as follows: After the skin has been treated
according to the directions given--viz. thoroughly scraped and cleansed of all adherent particles
of flesh, &c.--place it entirely in a tub or cask in which a solution or pickle has been previously
prepared, as follows: to every gallon of cold water add 1 lb. powdered alum, 1/2 oz. saltpetre,
2 oz. common salt; well mix. Allow the skin to remain about a couple of days, after which hang
it up to dry and for packing.

INDEX.

A.

Acanthion longicauda, 405

Ailuropus melanoleucos, 168

Ailurus fulgens, 169

Alactaga Indica, 401

Antelope bezoartica, 461

Anurosorex Assamensis, 149

Aonyx leptonyx, 199

Arctictis binturong, 235

Arctomys aureus, 313

    "    bobac, 310

    "    caudatus, 311

    "    dichrous, 314

    "    Hemachalanus, 312

    "    robustus, 315

Arctonyx collaris, 170

    "    taxoides, 171

Arvicola Blanfordi, 391

    "    Blythii, 392

    "    mandarinus, 393

    "    melanogaster, 395

    "    Roylei, 390

    "    Sikimensis, 394

    "    Stoliczkanus, 387

    "    Stracheyi, 388

    "    Wynnei, 389

Atherura fasciculata, 402

Axis maculatus, 472

 "   porcinus, 473

B.

Balaenoptera Indica, 271

Barbastellus communis, 120

Bubalus arni, 468

Budorcas taxicolor, 455

C.

Canis aureus, 248

  "   laniger, 246

  "   lupus, 247

  "   pallipes, 245

  "   rutilans, 249

Capra aegagrus, 448

  "   hylocrius, 450

  "   Jemlaicus, 449

  "   megaceros, 446

  "   Sibirica, 447

Cervulus muntjac vel aureus, 470

Cervus affinis vel Wallichii, 477

  "    Cashmirianus, 476

  "    maral, 477

Coelops Frithii, 68

Corsira Alpina, 148

Cricetus fulvus, 331

   "     phaeus, 330

Cuon rutilans, 249

Cynonycteris amplexicaudata, 32

Cynopterus marginatus, 33

D.

Delphinus fusiformis, 265

    "     gadamu, 262

    "     lentiginosus, 263

    "     longirostris, 267

    "     maculiventer, 264

    "     perniger, 260

    "     plumbeus, 261

    "     pomeegra, 266

    "     velox, 268

Dipus lagopus, 400

E.

Elephas Indicus, 425

Eonycteris spelaea, 35

Equus hemionus, 427

