    ’Well, let’s see; it cost you $3 to turn over the sward? Two
    bushels of seed, $2; harrowing in, 75 cents; interest, taxes, and
    fences, $5.25; 25 bushels of wheat lost, $25.’

    ’Deduct for harvesting—--’

    ’No; the straw would pay for that.’

    ’Very well, all footed $36.’

    ’What will the wheat and straw on this acre be worth this year?’

    ’Nothing, as I shall not cut the ground over.’

    ’Then it appears that you have lost, in what you have actually
    expended, and the wheat you would have harvested, had the ground
    been dry, $36, a pretty large sum for one acre.’

    ’Yes I see,’ said the farmer."

While Rye may be grown, with tolerable advantage, on lands which are less perfectly drained
than is necessary for Wheat, there can be no doubt that an increase of more than the six and
two-thirds bushels needed to make up the drainage charge will be the result of the improvement.

While Oats will thrive in soils which are too wet for many other crops, the ability to plant
early, which is secured by an early removal from the soil of its surplus water, will ensure,
one year with another, more than twelve and a half bushels of increased product.

In the case of Potatoes, also, the early planting will be a great advantage; and, while the
cause of the potato-rot is not yet clearly discovered, it is generally conceded that, even
if it does not result directly from too great wetness of the soil, its development is favored
by this condition, either from a direct action on the tubers, or from the effect in the air
immediately about the plants, of the exhalations of a humid soil.

An increase of from five to ten per cent. on a very ordinary crop of potatoes, will cover the
drainage charge, and with facilities for marketing, the higher price of the earlier yield is
of much greater consequence.

Barley will not thrive in wet soil, and there is no question that drainage would give it much
more than the increased yield prescribed above.

As to hay, there are many wet, rich soils which produce very large crops of grass, and it is
possible that drainage might not always cause them to yield a thousand pounds more of hay to
the acre, but the quality of the hay from the drained soil, would, of itself, more than compensate
for the drainage charge. The great benefit of the improvement, with reference to this crop,
however, lies in the fact that, although wet, grass lands,—and by "wet" is meant the condition
of undrained, retentive clays, and heavy loams, or other soils requiring drainage,—in a very
few years "run out," or become occupied by semi-aquatic and other objectionable plants, to
the exclusion of the proper grasses; the same lands, thoroughly drained, may be kept in full
yield of the finest hay plants, as long as the ground is properly managed. It must, of course,
be manured, from time to time, and care should be taken to prevent the puddling of its surface,
by men or animals, while it is too wet from recent rain. With proper attention to these points,
it need not be broken up in a lifetime, and it may be relied on to produce uniformly good crops,
always equal to the best obtained before drainage.

So far as Cotton and Tobacco are concerned, there are not many instances recorded of the systematic
drainage of lands appropriated to their cultivation, but there is every reason to suppose that
they will both be benefitted by any operation which will have the effect of placing the soil
in a better condition for the uses of all cultivated plants. The average crop of tobacco is
about 700 lbs., and that of cotton probably 250 lbs. An addition of one-fifth to the cotton
crop, and of only one thirty-fifth to the tobacco crop, would make the required increase.

The failure of the cotton crop, during the past season, (1866,) might have been entirely prevented,
in many districts, by the thorough draining of the land.

The advantages claimed for drainage with reference to the above-named staple crops, will apply
with equal, if not greater force, to all garden and orchard culture. In fact, with the exception
of osier willows, and cranberries, there is scarcely a cultivated plant which will not yield
larger and better crops on drained than on undrained land,—enough better, and enough larger,
to pay much more than the interest on the cost of the improvement.

Yet, this advantage of draining, is, by no means, the only one which is worthy of consideration.
Since the object of cultivation is to produce remunerative crops, of course, the larger and
better the crops, the more completely is the object attained;—and to this extent the greatest
benefit resulting from draining, lies in the increased yield. But there is another advantage,—a
material and moral advantage,—which is equally to be considered.

Instances of the profit resulting from under-draining, (coupled, as it almost always is, with
improved cultivation,) are frequently published, and it would be easy to fortify this chapter
with hundreds of well authenticated cases. It is, however, deemed sufficient to quote the following,
from an old number of one of the New York dailies:—

    "Some years ago, the son of an English farmer came to the United
    States, and let himself as a farm laborer, in New York State, on
    the following conditions: Commencing work at the first of
    September, he was to work ten hours a day for three years, and to
    receive in payment a deed of a field containing twelve
    acres—securing himself by an agreement, by which his employer was
    put under bonds of $2,000 to fulfill his part of the contract;
    also, during these three years, he was to have the control of the
    field; to work it at his own expense, and to give his employer
    one-half the proceeds. The field lay under the south side of a
    hill, was of dark, heavy clay resting on a bluish-colored, solid
    clay subsoil, and for many years previous, had not been known to
    yield anything but a yellowish, hard, stunted vegetation.

