And then there was a scene between the squire and her ladyship. Lady Arabella had given herself
credit for great good generalship when she found that the squire had been induced to take that
pill. We have all heard of the little end of the wedge, and we have most of us an idea that
the little end is the difficulty. That pill had been the little end of Lady Arabella's wedge.
Up to that period she had been struggling in vain to make a severance between her husband and
her enemy. That pill should do the business. She well knew how to make the most of it; to have
it published in Greshamsbury that the squire had put his gouty toe into Dr Fillgrave's hands;
how to let it be known--especially at that humble house in the corner of the street--that Fillgrave's
prescriptions now ran current through the whole establishment. Dr Thorne did hear of it, and
did suffer. He had been a true friend to the squire, and he thought the squire should have
stood to him more staunchly.

"After all," said he himself, "perhaps it's as well--perhaps it will be best that I should
leave this place altogether." And then he thought of Sir Roger and his will, and of Mary and
her lover. And then of Mary's birth, and of his own theoretical doctrines as to pure blood.
And so his troubles multiplied, and he saw no present daylight through them.

Such had been the way in which Lady Arabella had got in the little end of the wedge. And she
would have triumphed joyfully had not her increased doubts and fears as to herself then come
in to check her triumph and destroy her joy. She had not yet confessed to any one her secret
regret for the friend she had driven away. She hardly yet acknowledged to herself that she
did regret him; but she was uneasy, frightened, and in low spirits.

"My dear," said the squire, sitting down by her bedside, "I want to tell you what Sir Omicron
said as he went away."

"Well?" said her ladyship, sitting up and looking frightened.

"I don't know how you may take it, Bell; but I think it very good news:" the squire never called
his wife Bell, except when he wanted her to be on particularly good terms with him.

"Well?" said she again. She was not over-anxious to be gracious, and did not reciprocate his
familiarity.

"Sir Omicron says that you should have Thorne back again, and upon my honour, I cannot but
agree with him. Now, Thorne is a clever man, a very clever man; nobody denies that; and then,
you know--"

"Why did not Sir Omicron say that to me?" said her ladyship, sharply, all her disposition in
Dr Thorne's favour becoming wonderfully damped by her husband's advocacy.

"I suppose he thought it better to say it to me," said the squire, rather curtly.

"He should have spoken to myself," said Lady Arabella, who, though she did not absolutely doubt
her husband's word, gave him credit for having induced and led on Sir Omicron to the uttering
of this opinion. "Doctor Thorne has behaved to me in so gross, so indecent a manner! And then,
as I understand, he is absolutely encouraging that girl--"

"Now, Bell, you are quite wrong--"

"Of course I am; I always am quite wrong."

"Quite wrong in mixing up two things; Doctor Thorne as an acquaintance, and Dr Thorne as a doctor."

"It is dreadful to have him here, even standing in the room with me. How can one talk to one's
doctor openly and confidentially when one looks upon him as one's worst enemy?" And Lady Arabella,
softening, almost melted into tears.

"My dear, you cannot wonder that I should be anxious for you."

Lady Arabella gave a little snuffle, which might be taken as a not very eloquent expression
of thanks for the squire's solicitude, or as an ironical jeer at his want of sincerity.

"And, therefore, I have not lost a moment in telling you what Sir Omicron said. 'You should
have Thorne back here;' those were his very words. You can think it over, my dear. And remember
this, Bell; if he is to do any good no time should be lost."

And then the squire left the room, and Lady Arabella remained alone, perplexed by many doubts.

CHAPTER XXXII

Mr Oriel

I must now, shortly--as shortly as it is in my power to do it--introduce a new character to
my reader. Mention has been made of the rectory of Greshamsbury; but, hitherto, no opportunity
has offered itself for the Rev Caleb Oriel to come upon the boards.

Mr Oriel was a man of family and fortune, who, having gone to Oxford with the usual views of
such men, had become inoculated there with very High-Church principles, and had gone into orders
influenced by a feeling of enthusiastic love for the priesthood. He was by no means an ascetic--such
men, indeed, seldom are--nor was he a devotee. He was a man well able, and certainly willing,
to do the work of a parish clergyman; and when he became one, he was efficacious in his profession.
But it may perhaps be said of him, without speaking slanderously, that his original calling,
as a young man, was rather to the outward and visible signs of religion than to its inward
and spiritual graces.

He delighted in lecterns and credence-tables, in services at dark hours of winter mornings
when no one would attend, in high waistcoats and narrow white neckties, in chanted services
and intoned prayers, and in all the paraphernalia of Anglican formalities which have given
such offence to those of our brethren who live in daily fear of the scarlet lady. Many of his
friends declared that Mr Oriel would sooner or later deliver himself over body and soul to
that lady; but there was no need to fear for him: for though sufficiently enthusiastic to get
out of bed at five a.m. on winter mornings--he did so, at least, all through his first winter
at Greshamsbury--he was not made of that stuff which is necessary for a staunch, burning, self-denying
convert. It was not in him to change his very sleek black coat for a Capuchin's filthy cassock,
nor his pleasant parsonage for some dirty hole in Rome. And it was better so both for him and
others. There are but few, very few, to whom it is given to be a Huss, a Wickliffe, or a Luther;
and a man gains but little by being a false Huss, or a false Luther,--and his neighbours gain less.

But certain lengths in self-privation Mr Oriel did go; at any rate, for some time. He eschewed
matrimony, imagining that it became him as a priest to do so. He fasted rigorously on Fridays;
and the neighbours declared that he scourged himself.

Mr Oriel was, as it has been said, a man of fortune; that is to say, when he came of age he
was master of thirty thousand pounds. When he took it into his head to go into the Church,
his friends bought for him the next presentation to the living at Greshamsbury; and, a year
after his ordination, the living falling in, Mr Oriel brought himself and his sister to the
rectory.

Mr Oriel soon became popular. He was a dark-haired, good-looking man, of polished manners,
agreeable in society, not given to monkish austerities--except in the matter of Fridays--nor
yet to the Low-Church severity of demeanour. He was thoroughly a gentleman, good-humoured,
inoffensive, and sociable. But he had one fault: he was not a marrying man.

On this ground there was a feeling against him so strong as almost at one time to throw him
into serious danger. It was not only that he should be sworn against matrimony in his individual
self--he whom fate had made so able to sustain the weight of a wife and family; but what an
example he was setting! If other clergymen all around should declare against wives and families,
what was to become of the country? What was to be done in the rural districts? The religious
observances, as regards women, of a Brigham Young were hardly so bad as this!

There were around Greshamsbury very many unmarried ladies--I believe there generally are so
round most such villages. From the great house he did not receive much annoyance. Beatrice
was then only just on the verge of being brought out, and was not perhaps inclined to think
very much of a young clergyman; and Augusta certainly intended to fly at higher game. But there
were the Miss Athelings, the daughters of a neighbouring clergyman, who were ready to go all
lengths with him in High-Church matters, except as that one tremendously papal step of celibacy;
and the two Miss Hesterwells, of Hesterwell Park, the younger of whom boldly declared her purpose
of civilising the savage; and Mrs Opie Green, a very pretty widow, with a very pretty jointure,
who lived in a very pretty house about a mile from Greshamsbury, and who declared her opinion
that Mr Oriel was quite right in his view of a clergyman's position. How could a woman, situated
as she was, have the comfort of a clergyman's attention if he were to be regarded just as any
other man? She could now know in what light to regard Mr Oriel, and would be able without scruple
to avail herself of his zeal. So she did avail herself of his zeal,--and that without any scruple.

And then there was Miss Gushing,--a young thing. Miss Gushing had a great advantage over the
other competitors for the civilisation of Mr Oriel, namely, in this--that she was able to attend
his morning services. If Mr Oriel was to be reached in any way, it was probable that he might
be reached in this way. If anything could civilise him, this would do it. Therefore, the young
thing, through all one long, tedious winter, tore herself from her warm bed, and was to be
seen--no, not seen, but heard--entering Mr Oriel's church at six o'clock. With indefatigable
assiduity the responses were made, uttered from under a close bonnet, and out of a dark corner,
in an enthusiastically feminine voice, through the whole winter.

Nor did Miss Gushing altogether fail in her object. When a clergyman's daily audience consists
of but one person, and that person is a young lady, it is hardly possible that he should not
become personally intimate with her; hardly possible that he should not be in some measure
grateful. Miss Gushing's responses came from her with such fervour, and she begged for ghostly
advice with such eager longing to have her scruples satisfied, that Mr Oriel had nothing for
it but to give way to a certain amount of civilisation.

By degrees it came to pass that Miss Gushing could never get her final prayer said, her shawl
and boa adjusted, and stow away her nice new Prayer-Book with the red letters inside, and the
cross on the back, till Mr Oriel had been into his vestry and got rid of his surplice. And
then they met at the church-porch, and naturally walked together till Mr Oriel's cruel gateway
separated them. The young thing did sometimes think that, as the parson's civilisation progressed,
he might have taken the trouble to walk with her as far as Mr Yates Umbleby's hall door; but
she had hope to sustain her, and a firm resolve to merit success, even though she might not
attain it.

"Is it not ten thousand pities," she once said to him, "that none here should avail themselves
of the inestimable privilege which your coming has conferred upon us? Oh, Mr Oriel, I do so
wonder at it! To me it is so delightful! The morning service in the dark church is so beautiful,
so touching!"

"I suppose they think it is a bore getting up so early," said Mr Oriel.

"Ah, a bore!" said Miss Gushing, in an enthusiastic tone of depreciation. "How insensate they
must be! To me it gives a new charm to life. It quiets one for the day; makes one so much fitter
for one's daily trials and daily troubles. Does it not, Mr Oriel?"

"I look upon morning prayer as an imperative duty, certainly."

"Oh, certainly, a most imperative duty; but so delicious at the same time. I spoke to Mrs Umbleby
about it, but she said she could not leave the children."

"No: I dare say not," said Mr Oriel.

"And Mr Umbleby said his business kept him up so late at night."

"Very probably. I hardly expect the attendance of men of business."

"But the servants might come, mightn't they, Mr Oriel?"

"I fear that servants seldom can have time for daily prayers in church."

"Oh, ah, no; perhaps not." And then Miss Gushing began to bethink herself of whom should be
composed the congregation which it must be presumed that Mr Oriel wished to see around him.
But on this matter he did not enlighten her.

Then Miss Gushing took to fasting on Fridays, and made some futile attempts to induce her priest
to give her the comfort of confessional absolution. But, unfortunately, the zeal of the master
waxed cool as that of the pupil waxed hot; and, at last, when the young thing returned to Greshamsbury
from an autumn excursion which she had made with Mrs Umbleby to Weston-super-Mare, she found
that the delicious morning services had died a natural death. Miss Gushing did not on that
account give up the game, but she was bound to fight with no particular advantage in her favour.

Miss Oriel, though a good Churchwoman, was by no means a convert to her brother's extremist
views, and perhaps gave but scanty credit to the Gushings, Athelings, and Opie Greens for the
sincerity of their religion. But, nevertheless, she and her brother were staunch friends; and
she still hoped to see the day when he might be induced to think that an English parson might
get through his parish work with the assistance of a wife better than he could do without such
feminine encumbrance. The girl whom she selected for his bride was not the young thing, but
Beatrice Gresham.

And at last it seemed probable to Mr Oriel's nearest friends that he was in a fair way to be
overcome. Not that he had begun to make love to Beatrice, or committed himself by the utterance
of any opinion as to the propriety of clerical marriages; but he daily became looser about
his peculiar tenets, raved less immoderately than heretofore as to the atrocity of the Greshamsbury
church pews, and was observed to take some opportunities of conversing alone with Beatrice.
Beatrice had always denied the imputation--this had usually been made by Mary in their happy
days--with vehement asseverations of anger; and Miss Gushing had tittered, and expressed herself
as supposing that great people's daughters might be as barefaced as they pleased.

All this had happened previous to the great Greshamsbury feud. Mr Oriel gradually got himself
into a way of sauntering up to the great house, sauntering into the drawing-room for the purpose,
as I am sure he thought, of talking to Lady Arabella, and then of sauntering home again, having
usually found an opportunity for saying a few words to Beatrice during the visit. This went
on all through the feud up to the period of Lady Arabella's illness; and then one morning,
about a month before the date fixed for Frank's return, Mr Oriel found himself engaged to Miss
Beatrice Gresham.

From the day that Miss Gushing heard of it--which was not however for some considerable time
after this--she became an Independent Methodist. She could no longer, she said at first, have
any faith in any religion; and for an hour or so she was almost tempted to swear that she could
no longer have any faith in any man. She had nearly completed a worked cover for a credence-table
when the news reached her, as to which, in the young enthusiasm of her heart, she had not been
able to remain silent; it had already been promised to Mr Oriel; that promise she swore should
not be kept. He was an apostate, she said, from his principles; an utter pervert; a false,
designing man, with whom she would never have trusted herself alone on dark mornings had she
known that he had such grovelling, worldly inclinations. So Miss Gushing became an Independent
Methodist; the credence-table covering was cut up into slippers for the preacher's feet; and
the young thing herself, more happy in this direction than she had been in the other, became
the arbiter of that preacher's domestic happiness.

But this little history of Miss Gushing's future life is premature. Mr Oriel became engaged
demurely, nay, almost silently, to Beatrice, and no one out of their own immediate families
was at the time informed of the matter. It was arranged very differently from those two other
matches--embryo, or not embryo, those, namely, of Augusta with Mr Moffat, and Frank with Mary
Thorne. All Barsetshire had heard of them; but that of Beatrice and Mr Oriel was managed in
a much more private manner.

"I do think you are a happy girl," said Patience to her one morning.

"Indeed I am."

"He is so good. You don't know how good he is as yet; he never thinks of himself, and thinks
so much of those he loves."

Beatrice took her friend's hand in her own and kissed it. She was full of joy. When a girl
is about to be married, when she may lawfully talk of her love, there is no music in her ears
so sweet as the praises of her lover.

"I made up my mind from the first that he should marry you."

"Nonsense, Patience."

"I did, indeed. I made up my mind that he should marry; and there were only two to choose from."

"Me and Miss Gushing," said Beatrice, laughing.

"No; not exactly Miss Gushing. I had not many fears for Caleb there."

"I declare she's very pretty," said Beatrice, who could afford to be good-natured. Now Miss
Gushing certainly was pretty; and would have been very pretty had her nose not turned up so
much, and could she have parted her hair in the centre.

"Well, I am very glad you chose me;--if it was you who chose," said Beatrice, modestly; having,
however, in her own mind a strong opinion that Mr Oriel had chosen for himself, and had never
had any doubt in the matter. "And who was the other?"

"Can't you guess?"

"I won't guess any more; perhaps Mrs Green."

"Oh, no; certainly not a widow. I don't like widows marrying. But of course you could guess
if you would; of course it was Mary Thorne. But I soon saw Mary would not do, for two reasons;
Caleb would never have liked her well enough nor would she ever have liked him."

"Not like him! oh I hope she will; I do so love Mary Thorne."

"So do I, dearly; and so does Caleb; but he could never have loved her as he loves you."

"But, Patience, have you told Mary?"

"No, I have told no one, and shall not without your leave."

"Ah, you must tell her. Tell it her with my best, and kindest, warmest love. Tell her how happy
I am, and how I long to talk to her. Tell that I will have her for my bridesmaid. Oh! I do
hope that before that all this horrid quarrel will be settled."

Patience undertook the commission, and did tell Mary; did give her also the message which Beatrice
had sent. And Mary was rejoiced to hear it; for though, as Patience had said of her, she had
never herself felt any inclination to fall in love with Mr Oriel, she believed him to be one
in whose hands her friend's happiness would be secure. Then, by degrees, the conversation changed
from the loves of Mr Oriel and Beatrice to the troubles of Frank Gresham and herself.

"She says, that let what will happen you shall be one of her bridesmaids."

"Ah, yes, dear Trichy! that was settled between us in auld lang syne; but those settlements
are all unsettled now, must all be broken. No, I cannot be her bridesmaid; but I shall yet
hope to see her once before her marriage."

"And why not be her bridesmaid? Lady Arabella will hardly object to that."

"Lady Arabella!" said Mary, curling her lip with deep scorn. "I do not care that for Lady Arabella,"
and she let her silver thimble fall from her fingers on to the table. "If Beatrice invited
me to her wedding, she might manage as to that; I should ask no question as to Lady Arabella."

"Then why not come to it?"

She remained silent for a while, and then boldly answered. "Though I do not care for Lady Arabella,
I do care for Mr Gresham:--and I do care for his son."

"But the squire always loved you."

"Yes, and therefore I will not be there to vex his sight. I will tell you the truth, Patience.
I can never be in that house again till Frank Gresham is a married man, or till I am about
to be a married woman. I do not think they have treated me well, but I will not treat them ill."

"I am sure you will not do that," said Miss Oriel.

"I will endeavour not to do so; and, therefore, will go to none of their fêtes! No, Patience."
And then she turned her head to the arm of the sofa, and silently, without audible sobs, hiding
her face, she endeavoured to get rid of her tears unseen. For one moment she had all but resolved
to pour out the whole truth of her love into her friend's ears; but suddenly she changed her
mind. Why should she talk of her own unhappiness? Why should she speak of her own love when
she was fully determined not to speak of Frank's promises.

"Mary, dear Mary."

"Anything but pity, Patience; anything but that," said she, convulsively, swallowing down her
sobs, and rubbing away her tears. "I cannot bear that. Tell Beatrice from me, that I wish her
every happiness; and, with such a husband, I am sure she will be happy. I wish her every joy;
give her my kindest love; but tell her I cannot be at her marriage. Oh, I should so like to
see her; not there, you know, but here, in my own room, where I still have liberty to speak."

"But why should you decide now? She is not to be married yet, you know."

"Now, or this day twelvemonth, can make no difference. I will not go into that house again,
unless--but never mind; I will not go into it all; never, never again. If I could forgive her
for myself, I could not forgive her for my uncle. But tell me, Patience, might not Beatrice
now come here? It is so dreadful to see her every Sunday in church and never to speak to her,
never to kiss her. She seems to look away from me as though she too had chosen to quarrel with me."

Miss Oriel promised to do her best. She could not imagine, she said, that such a visit could
be objected to on such an occasion. She would not advise Beatrice to come without telling her
mother; but she could not think that Lady Arabella would be so cruel as to make any objection,
knowing, as she could not but know, that her daughter, when married, would be at liberty to
choose her own friends.

"Good-bye, Mary," said Patience. "I wish I knew how to say more to comfort you."

"Oh, comfort! I don't want comfort. I want to be let alone."

"That's just it: you are so ferocious in your scorn, so unbending, so determined to take all
the punishment that comes in your way."

"What I do take, I'll take without complaint," said Mary; and then they kissed each other and
parted.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A Morning Visit

It must be remembered that Mary, among her miseries, had to suffer this: that since Frank's
departure, now nearly twelve months ago, she had not heard a word about him; or rather, she
had only heard that he was very much in love with some lady in London. This news reached her
in a manner so circuitous, and from such a doubtful source; it seemed to her to savour so strongly
of Lady Arabella's precautions, that she attributed it at once to malice, and blew it to the
winds. It might not improbably be the case that Frank was untrue to her; but she would not
take it for granted because she was now told so. It was more than probable that he should amuse
himself with some one; flirting was his prevailing sin; and if he did flirt, the most would
of course be made of it.

But she found it to be very desolate to be thus left alone without a word of comfort or a word
of love; without being able to speak to any one of what filled her heart; doubting, nay, more
than doubting, being all but sure that her passion must terminate in misery. Why had she not
obeyed her conscience and her better instinct in that moment when the necessity for deciding
had come upon her? Why had she allowed him to understand that he was master of her heart? Did
she not know that there was everything against such a marriage as that which he proposed? Had
she not done wrong, very wrong, even to think of it? Had she not sinned deeply, against Mr
Gresham, who had ever been so kind to her? Could she hope, was it possible, that a boy like
Frank should be true to his first love? And, if he were true, if he were ready to go to the
altar with her to-morrow, ought she to allow him to degrade himself by such a marriage?

There was, alas! some truth about the London lady. Frank had taken his degree, as arranged,
and had then gone abroad for the winter, doing the fashionable things, going up the Nile, crossing
over to Mount Sinai, thence over the long desert to Jerusalem, and home by Damascus, Beyrout,
and Constantinople, bringing back a long beard, a red cap, and a chibook, just as our fathers
used to go through Italy and Switzerland, and our grandfathers to spend a season in Paris.
He had then remained for a couple of months in London, going through all the society which
the de Courcys were able to open to him. And it was true that a certain belle of the season,
of that season and some others, had been captivated--for the tenth time--by the silken sheen
of his long beard. Frank had probably been more demonstrative, perhaps even more susceptible,
than he should have been; and hence the rumour, which had all too willingly been forwarded
to Greshamsbury.

But young Gresham had also met another lady in London, namely Miss Dunstable. Mary would indeed
have been grateful to Miss Dunstable, could she have known all that lady did for her. Frank's
love was never allowed to flag. When he spoke of the difficulties in his way, she twitted him
by being overcome by straws; and told him that no one was worth having who was afraid of every
lion that he met in his path. When he spoke of money, she bade him earn it; and always ended
by offering to smooth for him any real difficulty which want of means might put in his way.

"No," Frank used to say to himself, when these offers were made, "I never intended to take
her and her money together; and, therefore, I certainly will never take the money alone."

A day or two after Miss Oriel's visit, Mary received the following note from Beatrice.

   DEAREST, DEAREST MARY,

   I shall be so happy to see you, and will come to-morrow at
   twelve. I have asked mamma, and she says that, for once,
   she has no objection. You know it is not my fault that
   I have never been with you; don't you? Frank comes home
   on the 12th. Mr Oriel wants the wedding to be on the 1st
   of September; but that seems to be so very, very soon;
   doesn't it? However, mamma and papa are all on his side.
   I won't write about this, though, for we shall have such a
   delicious talk. Oh, Mary! I have been so unhappy without
   you.

   Ever your own affectionate,

   TRICHY

   Monday.

Though Mary was delighted at the idea of once more having her friend in her arms, there was,
nevertheless, something in this letter which oppressed her. She could not put up with the idea
that Beatrice should have permission given to come to her--just for once. She hardly wished
to be seen by permission. Nevertheless, she did not refuse the proffered visit, and the first
sight of Beatrice's face, the first touch of the first embrace, dissipated for the moment all
her anger.

And then Beatrice fully enjoyed the delicious talk which she had promised herself. Mary let
her have her way, and for two hours all the delights and all the duties, all the comforts and
all the responsibilities of a parson's wife were discussed with almost equal ardour on both
sides. The duties and responsibilities were not exactly those which too often fall to the lot
of the mistress of an English vicarage. Beatrice was not doomed to make her husband comfortable,
to educate her children, dress herself like a lady, and exercise open-handed charity on an
income of two hundred pounds a year. Her duties and responsibilities would have to spread themselves
over seven or eight times that amount of worldly burden. Living also close to Greshamsbury,
and not far from Courcy Castle, she would have the full advantages and all the privileges of
county society. In fact, it was all couleur de rose, and so she chatted deliciously with her
friend.

But it was impossible that they should separate without something having been said as to Mary's
own lot. It would, perhaps, have been better that they should do so; but this was hardly within
the compass of human nature.

"And Mary, you know, I shall be able to see you as often as I like;--you and Dr Thorne, too,
when I have a house of my own."

Mary said nothing, but essayed to smile. It was but a ghastly attempt.

"You know how happy that will make me," continued Beatrice. "Of course mamma won't expect me
to be led by her then: if he likes it, there can be no objection; and he will like it, you
may be sure of that."

"You are very kind, Trichy," said Mary; but she spoke in a tone very different from that she
would have used eighteen months ago.

"Why, what is the matter, Mary? Shan't you be glad to come to see us?"

"I do not know, dearest; that must depend on circumstances. To see you, you yourself, your
own dear, sweet, loving face must always be pleasant to me."

"And shan't you be glad to see him?"

"Yes, certainly, if he loves you."

"Of course he loves me."

"All that alone would be pleasant enough, Trichy. But what if there should be circumstances
which should still make us enemies; should make your friends and my friends--friend, I should
say, for I have only one--should make them opposed to each other?"

"Circumstances! What circumstances?"

"You are going to be married, Trichy, to the man you love; are you not?"

"Indeed, I am!"

"And it is not pleasant? is it not a happy feeling?"

"Pleasant! happy! yes, very pleasant; very happy. But, Mary, I am not at all in such a hurry
as he is," said Beatrice, naturally thinking of her own little affairs.

"And, suppose I should wish to be married to the man that I love?" Mary said this slowly and
gravely, and as she spoke she looked her friend full in the face.

Beatrice was somewhat astonished, and for the moment hardly understood. "I am sure I hope you
will, some day."

"No, Trichy; no, you hope the other way. I love your brother; I love Frank Gresham; I love
him quite as well, quite as warmly, as you love Caleb Oriel."

"Do you?" said Beatrice, staring with all her eyes, and giving one long sigh, as this new subject
for sorrow was so distinctly put before her.

"It that so odd?" said Mary. "You love Mr Oriel, though you have been intimate with him hardly
more than two years. Is it so odd that I should love your brother, whom I have known almost
all my life?"

"But, Mary, I thought it was always understood between us that--that--I mean that you were
not to care about him; not in the way of loving him, you know--I thought you always said so--I
have always told mamma so as if it came from yourself."

"Beatrice, do not tell anything to Lady Arabella as though it came from me; I do not want anything
to be told to her, either of me or from me. Say what you like to me yourself; whatever you
say will not anger me. Indeed, I know what you would say--and yet I love you. Oh, I love you,
Trichy--Trichy, I do love you so much! Don't turn away from me!"

There was such a mixture in Mary's manner of tenderness and almost ferocity, that poor Beatrice
could hardly follow her. "Turn away from you, Mary! no never; but this does make me unhappy."

"It is better that you should know it all, and then you will not be led into fighting my battles
again. You cannot fight them so that I should win; I do love your brother; love him truly,
fondly, tenderly. I would wish to have him for my husband as you wish to have Mr Oriel."

"But, Mary, you cannot marry him!"

"Why not?" said she, in a loud voice. "Why can I not marry him? If the priest says a blessing
over us, shall we not be married as well as you and your husband?"

"But you know he cannot marry unless his wife shall have money."

"Money--money; and he is to sell himself for money? Oh, Trichy! do not you talk about money.
It is horrible. But, Trichy, I will grant it--I cannot marry him; but still, I love him. He
has a name, a place in the world, and fortune, family, high blood, position, everything. He
has all this, and I have nothing. Of course I cannot marry him. But yet I do love him."

"Are you engaged to him, Mary?"

"He is not engaged to me; but I am to him."

"Oh, Mary, that is impossible!"

"It is not impossible: it is the case--I am pledged to him; but he is not pledged to me."

"But, Mary, don't look at me in that way. I do not quite understand you. What is the good of
your being engaged if you cannot marry him?"

"Good! there is no good. But can I help it, if I love him? Can I make myself not love him by
just wishing it? Oh, I would do it if I could. But now you will understand why I shake my head
when you talk of my coming to your house. Your ways and my ways must be different."

Beatrice was startled, and, for a time, silenced. What Mary said of the difference of their
ways was quite true. Beatrice had dearly loved her friend, and had thought of her with affection
through all this long period in which they had been separated; but she had given her love and
her thoughts on the understanding, as it were, that they were in unison as to the impropriety
of Frank's conduct.

She had always spoken, with a grave face, of Frank and his love as of a great misfortune, even
to Mary herself; and her pity for Mary had been founded on the conviction of her innocence.
Now all those ideas had to be altered. Mary owned her fault, confessed herself to be guilty
of all that Lady Arabella so frequently laid to her charge, and confessed herself anxious to
commit every crime as to which Beatrice had been ever so ready to defend her.

Had Beatrice up to this dreamed that Mary was in love with Frank, she would doubtless have
sympathised with her more or less, sooner or later. As it was, is was beyond all doubt that
she would soon sympathise with her. But, at the moment, the suddenness of the declaration seemed
to harden her heart, and she forgot, as it were, to speak tenderly to her friend.

She was silent, therefore, and dismayed; and looked as though she thought that her ways and
Mary's ways must be different.

Mary saw all that was passing in the other's mind: no, not all; all the hostility, the disappointment,
the disapproval, the unhappiness, she did see; but not the under-current of love, which was
strong enough to well up and drown all these, if only time could be allowed for it to do so.

"I am glad I have told you," said Mary, curbing herself, "for deceit and hypocrisy are detestable."

"It was a misunderstanding, not deceit," said Beatrice.

"Well, now we understand each other; now you know that I have a heart within me, which like
those of some others has not always been under my own control. Lady Arabella believes that
I am intriguing to be the mistress of Greshamsbury. You, at any rate, will not think that of
me. If it could be discovered to-morrow that Frank were not the heir, I might have some chance
of happiness."

"But, Mary--"

"Well?"

"You say you love him."

"Yes; I do say so."

"But if he does not love you, will you cease to do so?"

"If I have a fever, I will get rid of it if I can; in such case I must do so, or die."

"I fear," continued Beatrice, "you hardly know, perhaps do not think, what is Frank's real
character. He is not made to settle down early in life; even now, I believe he is attached
to some lady in London, whom, of course, he cannot marry."

Beatrice said this in perfect trueness of heart. She had heard of Frank's new love-affair,
and believing what she had heard, thought it best to tell the truth. But the information was
not of a kind to quiet Mary's spirit.

"Very well," said she, "let it be so. I have nothing to say against it."

"But are you not preparing wretchedness and unhappiness for yourself?"

"Very likely."

"Oh, Mary, do not be so cold with me! you know how delighted I should be to have you for a
sister-in-law, if only it were possible."

"Yes, Trichy; but it is impossible, is it not? Impossible that Francis Gresham of Greshamsbury
should disgrace himself by marrying such a poor creature as I am. Of course, I know it; of
course, I am prepared for unhappiness and misery. He can amuse himself as he likes with me
or others--with anybody. It is his privilege. It is quite enough to say that he is not made
for settling down. I know my own position;--and yet I love him."

"But, Mary, has he asked you to be his wife? If so--"

"You ask home-questions, Beatrice. Let me ask you one; has he ever told you that he has done so?"

At this moment Beatrice was not disposed to repeat all that Frank had said. A year ago, before
he went away, he had told his sister a score of times that he meant to marry Mary Thorne if
she would have him; but Beatrice now looked on all that as idle, boyish vapouring. The pity
was, that Mary should have looked on it differently.

"We will each keep our secret," said Mary. "Only remember this: should Frank marry to-morrow,
I shall have no ground for blaming him. He is free as far I as am concerned. He can take the
London lady if he likes. You may tell him so from me. But, Trichy, what else I have told you,
I have told you only."

"Oh, yes!" said Beatrice, sadly; "I shall say nothing of it to anybody. It is very sad, very,
very; I was so happy when I came here, and now I am so wretched." This was the end of that
delicious talk to which she had looked forward with so much eagerness.

"Don't be wretched about me, dearest; I shall get through it. I sometimes think I was born
to be unhappy, and that unhappiness agrees with me best. Kiss me now, Trichy, and don't be
wretched any more. You owe it to Mr Oriel to be as happy as the day is long."

And then they parted.

Beatrice, as she went out, saw Dr Thorne in his little shop on the right-hand side of the passage,
deeply engaged in some derogatory branch of an apothecary's mechanical trade; mixing a dose,
perhaps, for a little child. She would have passed him without speaking if she could have been
sure of doing so without notice, for her heart was full, and her eyes were red with tears;
but it was so long since she had been in his house that she was more than ordinarily anxious
not to appear uncourteous or unkind to him.

"Good morning, doctor," she said, changing her countenance as best she might, and attempting
a smile.

"Ah, my fairy!" said he, leaving his villainous compounds, and coming out to her; "and you,
too, are about to become a steady old lady."

"Indeed, I am not, doctor; I don't mean to be either steady or old for the next ten years.
But who has told you? I suppose Mary has been a traitor."

"Well, I will confess, Mary was the traitor. But hadn't I a right to be told, seeing how often
I have brought you sugar-plums in my pocket? But I wish you joy with all my heart,--with all
my heart. Oriel is an excellent, good fellow."

"Is he not, doctor?"

"An excellent, good fellow. I never heard but of one fault that he had."

"What was that one fault, Doctor Thorne?"

"He thought that clergymen should not marry. But you have cured that, and now he's perfect."

"Thank you, doctor. I declare that you say the prettiest things of all my friends."

"And none of your friends wish prettier things for you. I do congratulate you, Beatrice, and
hope you may be happy with the man you have chosen;" and taking both her hands in his, he pressed
them warmly, and bade God bless her.

"Oh, doctor! I do so hope the time will come when we shall all be friends again."

"I hope it as well, my dear. But let it come, or let it not come, my regard for you will be
the same:" and then she parted from him also, and went her way.

Nothing was spoken of that evening between Dr Thorne and his niece excepting Beatrice's future
happiness; nothing, at least, having reference to what had passed that morning. But on the
following morning circumstances led to Frank Gresham's name being mentioned.

At the usual breakfast-hour the doctor entered the parlour with a harassed face. He had an
open letter in his hand, and it was at once clear to Mary that he was going to speak on some
subject that vexed him.

"That unfortunate fellow is again in trouble. Here is a letter from Greyson." Greyson was a
London apothecary, who had been appointed as medical attendant to Sir Louis Scatcherd, and
whose real business consisted in keeping a watch on the baronet, and reporting to Dr Thorne
when anything was very much amiss. "Here is a letter from Greyson; he has been drunk for the
last three days, and is now laid up in a terribly nervous state."

"You won't go up to town again; will you, uncle?"

"I hardly know what to do. No, I think not. He talks of coming down here to Greshamsbury."

"Who, Sir Louis?"

"Yes, Sir Louis. Greyson says that he will be down as soon as he can get out of his room."

"What! to this house?"

"What other house can he come to?"

"Oh, uncle! I hope not. Pray, pray do not let him come here."

"I cannot prevent it, my dear. I cannot shut my door on him."

They sat down to breakfast, and Mary gave him his tea in silence. "I am going over to Boxall
Hill before dinner," said he. "Have you any message to send to Lady Scatcherd?"

"Message! no, I have no message; not especially: give her my love, of course," she said listlessly.
And then, as though a thought had suddenly struck her, she spoke with more energy. "But, couldn't
I go to Boxall Hill again? I should be so delighted."

"What! to run away from Sir Louis? No, dearest, we will have no more running away. He will
probably also go to Boxall Hill, and he could annoy you much more there than he can here."

"But, uncle, Mr Gresham will be home on the 12th," she said, blushing.

"What! Frank?"

"Yes. Beatrice said he was to be here on the 12th."

"And would you run away from him too, Mary?"

"I do not know: I do not know what to do."

"No; we will have no more running away: I am sorry that you ever did so. It was my fault, altogether
my fault; but it was foolish."

"Uncle, I am not happy here." As she said this, she put down the cup which she had held, and,
leaning her elbows on the table, rested her forehead on her hands.

"And would you be happier at Boxall Hill? It is not the place makes the happiness."

"No, I know that; it is not the place. I do not look to be happy in any place; but I should
be quieter, more tranquil elsewhere than here."

"I also sometimes think that it will be better for us to take up our staves and walk away out
of Greshamsbury;--leave it altogether, and settle elsewhere; miles, miles, miles away from
here. Should you like that, dearest?"

Miles, miles, miles away from Greshamsbury! There was something in the sound that fell very
cold on Mary's ears, unhappy as she was. Greshamsbury had been so dear to her; in spite of
all that had passed, was still so dear to her! Was she prepared to take up her staff, as her
uncle said, and walk forth from the place with the full understanding that she was to return
to it no more; with a mind resolved that there should be an inseparable gulf between her and
its inhabitants? Such she knew was the proposed nature of the walking away of which her uncle
spoke. So she sat there, resting on her arms, and gave no answer to the question that had been
asked her.

"No, we will stay a while yet," said her uncle. "It may come to that, but this is not the time.
For one season longer let us face--I will not say our enemies; I cannot call anybody my enemy
who bears the name of Gresham." And then he went on for a moment with his breakfast. "So Frank
will be here on the 12th?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Well, dearest, I have no questions to ask you: no directions to give. I know how good you
are, and how prudent; I am anxious only for your happiness; not at all--"

"Happiness, uncle, is out of the question."

"I hope not. It is never out of the question, never can be out of the question. But, as I was
saying, I am quite satisfied your conduct will be good, and, therefore, I have no questions
to ask. We will remain here; and, whether good or evil come, we will not be ashamed to show
our faces."

She sat for a while again silent, collecting her courage on the subject that was nearest her
heart. She would have given the world that he should ask her questions; but she could not bid
him to do so; and she found it impossible to talk openly to him about Frank unless he did so.
"Will he come here?" at last she said, in a low-toned voice.

"Who? He, Louis? Yes, I think that in all probability he will."

"No; but Frank," she said, in a still lower voice.

"Ah! my darling, that I cannot tell; but will it be well that he should come here?"

"I do not know," she said. "No, I suppose not. But, uncle, I don't think he will come."

She was now sitting on a sofa away from the table, and he got up, sat down beside her, and
took her hands in his. "Mary," said he, "you must be strong now; strong to endure, not to attack.
I think you have that strength; but, if not, perhaps it will be better that we should go away."

"I will be strong," said she, rising up and going towards the door. "Never mind me, uncle;
don't follow me; I will be strong. It will be base, cowardly, mean, to run away; very base
in me to make you do so."

"No, dearest, not so; it will be the same to me."

"No," said she, "I will not run away from Lady Arabella. And, as for him--if he loves this
other one, he shall hear no reproach from me. Uncle, I will be strong;" and running back to
him, she threw her arms round him and kissed him. And, still restraining her tears, she got
safely to her bedroom. In what way she may there have shown her strength, it would not be well
for us to inquire.

CHAPTER XXXIV

A Barouche and Four Arrives at Greshamsbury

During the last twelve months Sir Louis Scatcherd had been very efficacious in bringing trouble,
turmoil, and vexation upon Greshamsbury. Now that it was too late to take steps to save himself,
Dr Thorne found that the will left by Sir Roger was so made as to entail upon him duties that
he would find it almost impossible to perform. Sir Louis, though his father had wished to make
him still a child in the eye of the law, was no child. He knew his own rights and was determined
to exact them; and before Sir Roger had been dead three months, the doctor found himself in
continual litigation with a low Barchester attorney, who was acting on behalf of his, the doctor's,
own ward.

And if the doctor suffered so did the squire, and so did those who had hitherto had the management
of the squire's affairs. Dr Thorne soon perceived that he was to be driven into litigation,
not only with Mr Finnie, the Barchester attorney, but with the squire himself. While Finnie
harassed him, he was compelled to harass Mr Gresham. He was no lawyer himself; and though he
had been able to manage very well between the squire and Sir Roger, and had perhaps given himself
some credit for his lawyer-like ability in so doing, he was utterly unable to manage between
Sir Louis and Mr Gresham.

He had, therefore, to employ a lawyer on his own account, and it seemed probable that the whole
amount of Sir Roger's legacy to himself would by degrees be expended in this manner. And then,
the squire's lawyers had to take up the matter; and they did so greatly to the detriment of
poor Mr Yates Umbleby, who was found to have made a mess of the affairs entrusted to him. Mr
Umbleby's accounts were incorrect; his mind was anything but clear, and he confessed, when
put to it by the very sharp gentleman that came down from London, that he was "bothered;" and
so, after a while, he was suspended from his duties, and Mr Gazebee, the sharp gentleman from
London, reigned over the diminished rent-roll of the Greshamsbury estate.

Thus everything was going wrong at Greshamsbury--with the one exception of Mr Oriel and his
love-suit. Miss Gushing attributed the deposition of Mr Umbleby to the narrowness of the victory
which Beatrice had won in carrying off Mr Oriel. For Miss Gushing was a relation of the Umblebys,
and had been for many years one of their family. "If she had only chosen to exert herself as
Miss Gresham had done, she could have had Mr Oriel, easily; oh, too easily! but she had despised
such work," so she said. "But though she had despised it, the Greshams had not been less irritated,
and, therefore, Mr Umbleby had been driven out of his house." We can hardly believe this, as
victory generally makes men generous. Miss Gushing, however, stated it as a fact so often that
it is probable she was induced to believe it herself.

Thus everything was going wrong at Greshamsbury, and the squire himself was especially a sufferer.
Umbleby had at any rate been his own man, and he could do what he liked with him. He could
see him when he liked, and where he liked, and how he liked; could scold him if in an ill-humour,
and laugh at him when in a good humour. All this Mr Umbleby knew, and bore. But Mr Gazebee
was a very different sort of gentleman; he was the junior partner in the firm of Gumption,
Gazebee & Gazebee, of Mount Street, a house that never defiled itself with any other business
than the agency business, and that in the very highest line. They drew out leases, and managed
property both for the Duke of Omnium and Lord de Courcy; and ever since her marriage, it had
been one of the objects dearest to Lady Arabella's heart, that the Greshamsbury acres should
be superintended by the polite skill and polished legal ability of that all but elegant firm
in Mount Street.

The squire had long stood firm, and had delighted in having everything done under his own eye
by poor Mr Yates Umbleby. But now, alas! he could stand it no longer. He had put off the evil
day as long as he could; he had deferred the odious work of investigation till things had seemed
resolved on investigating themselves; and then, when it was absolutely necessary that Mr Umbleby
should go, there was nothing for him left but to fall into the ready hands of Messrs Gumption,
Gazebee and Gazebee.

It must not be supposed that Messrs Gumption, Gazebee & Gazebee were in the least like the
ordinary run of attorneys. They wrote no letters for six-and-eightpence each: they collected
no debts, filed no bills, made no charge per folio for "whereases" and "as aforesaids;" they
did no dirty work, and probably were as ignorant of the interior of a court of law as any young
lady living in their Mayfair vicinity. No; their business was to manage the property of great
people, draw up leases, make legal assignments, get the family marriage settlements made, and
look after wills. Occasionally, also, they had to raise money; but it was generally understood
that this was done by proxy.

The firm had been going on for a hundred and fifty years, and the designation had often been
altered; but it always consisted of Gumptions and Gazebees differently arranged, and no less
hallowed names had ever been permitted to appear. It had been Gazebee, Gazebee & Gumption;
then Gazebee & Gumption; then Gazebee, Gumption & Gumption; then Gumption, Gumption & Gazebee;
and now it was Gumption, Gazebee & Gazebee.

Mr Gazebee, the junior member of this firm, was a very elegant young man. While looking at
him riding in Rotten Row, you would hardly have taken him for an attorney; and had he heard
that you had so taken him, he would have been very much surprised indeed. He was rather bald;
not being, as people say, quite so young as he was once. His exact age was thirty-eight. But
he had a really remarkable pair of jet-black whiskers, which fully made up for any deficiency
as to his head; he had also dark eyes, and a beaked nose, what may be called a distinguished
mouth, and was always dressed in fashionable attire. The fact was, that Mr Mortimer Gazebee,
junior partner in the firm Gumption, Gazebee & Gazebee, by no means considered himself to be
made of that very disagreeable material which mortals call small beer.

When this great firm was applied to, to get Mr Gresham through his difficulties, and when the
state of his affairs was made known to them, they at first expressed rather a disinclination
for the work. But at last, moved doubtless by their respect for the de Courcy interest, they
assented; and Mr Gazebee, junior, went down to Greshamsbury. The poor squire passed many a
sad day after that before he again felt himself to be master even of his own domain.

Nevertheless, when Mr Mortimer Gazebee visited Greshamsbury, which he did on more than one
or two occasions, he was always received en grand seigneur. To Lady Arabella he was by no means
an unwelcome guest, for she found herself able, for the first time in her life, to speak confidentially
on her husband's pecuniary affairs with the man who had the management of her husband's property.
Mr Gazebee also was a pet with Lady de Courcy; and being known to be a fashionable man in London,
and quite a different sort of person from poor Mr Umbleby, he was always received with smiles.
He had a hundred little ways of making himself agreeable, and Augusta declared to her cousin,
the Lady Amelia, after having been acquainted with him for a few months, that he would be a
perfect gentleman, only, that his family had never been anything but attorneys. The Lady Amelia
smiled in her own peculiarly aristocratic way, shrugged her shoulders slightly, and said, "that
Mr Mortimer Gazebee was a very good sort of a person, very." Poor Augusta felt herself snubbed,
thinking perhaps of the tailor's son; but as there was never any appeal against the Lady Amelia,
she said nothing more at that moment in favour of Mr Mortimer Gazebee.

All these evils--Mr Mortimer Gazebee being the worst of them--had Sir Louis Scatcherd brought
down on the poor squire's head. There may be those who will say that the squire had brought
them on himself, by running into debt; and so, doubtless, he had; but it was not the less true
that the baronet's interference was unnecessary, vexatious, and one might almost say, malicious.
His interest would have been quite safe in the doctor's hands, and he had, in fact, no legal
right to meddle; but neither the doctor nor the squire could prevent him. Mr Finnie knew very
well what he was about, if Sir Louis did not; and so the three went on, each with his own lawyer,
and each of them distrustful, unhappy, and ill at ease. This was hard upon the doctor, for
he was not in debt, and had borrowed no money.

There was not much reason to suppose that the visit of Sir Louis to Greshamsbury would much
improve matters. It must be presumed that he was not coming with any amicable views, but with
the object rather of looking after his own; a phrase which was now constantly in his mouth.
He might probably find it necessary while looking after his own at Greshamsbury, to say some
very disagreeable things to the squire; and the doctor, therefore, hardly expected that the
visit would go off pleasantly.

When last we saw Sir Louis, now nearly twelve months since, he was intent on making a proposal
of marriage to Miss Thorne. This intention he carried out about two days after Frank Gresham
had done the same thing. He had delayed doing so till he had succeeded in purchasing his friend
Jenkins's Arab pony, imagining that such a present could not but go far in weaning Mary's heart
from her other lover. Poor Mary was put to the trouble of refusing both the baronet and the
pony, and a very bad time she had of it while doing so. Sir Louis was a man easily angered,
and not very easily pacified, and Mary had to endure a good deal of annoyance; from any other
person, indeed, she would have called it impertinence. Sir Louis, however, had to bear his
rejection as best he could, and, after a perseverance of three days, returned to London in
disgust; and Mary had not seen him since.

Mr Greyson's first letter was followed by a second; and the second was followed by the baronet
in person. He also required to be received en grand seigneur, perhaps more imperatively than
Mr Mortimer Gazebee himself. He came with four posters from the Barchester Station, and had
himself rattled up to the doctor's door in a way that took the breath away from all Greshamsbury.
Why! the squire himself for a many long year had been contented to come home with a pair of
horses; and four were never seen in the place, except when the de Courcys came to Greshamsbury,
or Lady Arabella with all her daughters returned from her hard-fought metropolitan campaigns.

Sir Louis, however, came with four, and very arrogant he looked, leaning back in the barouche
belonging to the George and Dragon, and wrapped up in fur, although it was now midsummer. And
up in the dicky behind was a servant, more arrogant, if possible, than his master--the baronet's
own man, who was the object of Dr Thorne's special detestation and disgust. He was a little
fellow, chosen originally on account of his light weight on horseback; but if that may be considered
a merit, it was the only one he had. His out-door show dress was a little tight frock-coat,
round which a polished strap was always buckled tightly, a stiff white choker, leather breeches,
top-boots, and a hat, with a cockade, stuck on one side of his head. His name was Jonah, which
his master and his master's friends shortened into Joe; none, however, but those who were very
intimate with his master were allowed to do so with impunity.

This Joe was Dr Thorne's special aversion. In his anxiety to take every possible step to keep
Sir Louis from poisoning himself, he had at first attempted to enlist the baronet's "own man"
in the cause. Joe had promised fairly, but had betrayed the doctor at once, and had become
the worst instrument of his master's dissipation. When, therefore, his hat and the cockade
were seen, as the carriage dashed up to the door, the doctor's contentment was by no means
increased.

Sir Louis was now twenty-three years old, and was a great deal too knowing to allow himself
to be kept under the doctor's thumb. It had, indeed, become his plan to rebel against his guardian
in almost everything. He had at first been decently submissive, with the view of obtaining
increased supplies of ready money; but he had been sharp enough to perceive that, let his conduct
be what it would, the doctor would keep him out of debt; but that the doing so took so large
a sum that he could not hope for any further advances. In this respect Sir Louis was perhaps
more keen-witted than Dr Thorne.

Mary, when she saw the carriage, at once ran up to her own bedroom. The doctor, who had been
with her in the drawing-room, went down to meet his ward, but as soon as he saw the cockade
he darted almost involuntarily into his shop and shut the door. This protection, however, lasted
only for a moment; he felt that decency required him to meet his guest, and so he went forth
and faced the enemy.

"I say," said Joe, speaking to Janet, who stood curtsying at the gate, with Bridget, the other
maid, behind her, "I say, are there any chaps about the place to take these things--eh? come,
look sharp here."

It so happened that the doctor's groom was not on the spot, and "other chaps" the doctor had none.

"Take those things, Bridget," he said, coming forward and offering his hand to the baronet.
Sir Louis, when he saw his host, roused himself slowly from the back of his carriage. "How
do, doctor?" said he. "What terrible bad roads you have here! and, upon my word, it's as cold
as winter:" and, so saying, he slowly proceeded to descend.

Sir Louis was a year older than when we last saw him, and, in his generation, a year wiser.
He had then been somewhat humble before the doctor; but now he was determined to let his guardian
see that he knew how to act the baronet; that he had acquired the manners of a great man; and
that he was not to be put upon. He had learnt some lessons from Jenkins, in London, and other
friends of the same sort, and he was about to profit by them.

The doctor showed him to his room, and then proceeded to ask after his health. "Oh, I'm right
enough," said Sir Louis. "You mustn't believe all that fellow Greyson tells you: he wants me
to take salts and senna, opodeldoc, and all that sort of stuff; looks after his bill, you know--eh?
like all the rest of you. But I won't have it;--not at any price; and then he writes to you."

"I'm glad to see you able to travel," said Dr Thorne, who could not force himself to tell his
guest that he was glad to see him at Greshamsbury.

"Oh, travel; yes, I can travel well enough. But I wish you had some better sort of trap down
in these country parts. I'm shaken to bits. And, doctor, would you tell your people to send
that fellow of mine up here with hot water."

So dismissed, the doctor went his way, and met Joe swaggering in one of the passages, while
Janet and her colleague dragged along between them a heavy article of baggage.

"Janet," said he, "go downstairs and get Sir Louis some hot water, and Joe, do you take hold
of your master's portmanteau."

Joe sulkily did as he was bid. "Seems to me," said he, turning to the girl, and speaking before
the doctor was out of hearing, "seems to me, my dear, you be rather short-handed here; lots
of work and nothing to get; that's about the ticket, ain't it?" Bridget was too demurely modest
to make any answer upon so short an acquaintance; so, putting her end of the burden down at
the strange gentleman's door, she retreated into the kitchen.

Sir Louis, in answer to the doctor's inquiries, had declared himself to be all right; but his
appearance was anything but all right. Twelve months since, a life of dissipation, or rather,
perhaps, a life of drinking, had not had upon him so strong an effect but that some of the
salt of youth was still left; some of the freshness of young years might still be seen in his
face. But this was now all gone; his eyes were sunken and watery, his cheeks were hollow and
wan, his mouth was drawn and his lips dry; his back was even bent, and his legs were unsteady
under him, so that he had been forced to step down from his carriage as an old man would do.
Alas, alas! he had no further chance now of ever being all right again.

Mary had secluded herself in her bedroom as soon as the carriage had driven up to the door,
and there she remained till dinner-time. But she could not shut herself up altogether. It would
be necessary that she should appear at dinner; and, therefore, a few minutes before the hour,
she crept out into the drawing-room. As she opened the door, she looked in timidly, expecting
Sir Louis to be there; but when she saw that her uncle was the only occupant of the room, her
brow cleared, and she entered with a quick step.

"He'll come down to dinner; won't he, uncle?"

"Oh, I suppose so."

"What's he doing now?"

"Dressing, I suppose; he's been at it this hour."

"But, uncle--"

"Well?"

"Will he come up after dinner, do you think?"

Mary spoke of him as though he were some wild beast, whom her uncle insisted on having in his
house.

"Goodness knows what he will do! Come up? Yes. He will not stay in the dining-room all night."

"But, dear uncle, do be serious."

"Serious!"

"Yes; serious. Don't you think that I might go to bed, instead of waiting?"

The doctor was saved the trouble of answering by the entrance of the baronet. He was dressed
in what he considered the most fashionable style of the day. He had on a new dress-coat lined
with satin, new dress-trousers, a silk waistcoat covered with chains, a white cravat, polished
pumps, and silk stockings, and he carried a scented handkerchief in his hand; he had rings
on his fingers, and carbuncle studs in his shirt, and he smelt as sweet as patchouli could
make him. But he could hardly do more than shuffle into the room, and seemed almost to drag
one of his legs behind him.

Mary, in spite of her aversion, was shocked and distressed when she saw him. He, however, seemed
to think himself perfect, and was no whit abashed by the unfavourable reception which twelve
months since had been paid to his suit. Mary came up and shook hands with him, and he received
her with a compliment which no doubt he thought must be acceptable. "Upon my word, Miss Thorne,
every place seems to agree with you; one better than another. You were looking charming at
Boxall Hill; but, upon my word, charming isn't half strong enough now."

Mary sat down quietly, and the doctor assumed a face of unutterable disgust. This was the creature
for whom all his sympathies had been demanded, all his best energies put in requisition; on
whose behalf he was to quarrel with his oldest friends, lose his peace and quietness of life,
and exercise all the functions of a loving friend! This was his self-invited guest, whom he
was bound to foster, and whom he could not turn from his door.

Then dinner came, and Mary had to put her hand upon his arm. She certainly did not lean upon
him, and once or twice felt inclined to give him some support. They reached the dining-room,
however, the doctor following them, and then sat down, Janet waiting in the room, as was usual.

"I say, doctor," said the baronet, "hadn't my man better come in and help? He's got nothing
to do, you know. We should be more cosy, shouldn't we?"

"Janet will manage pretty well," said the doctor.

"Oh, you'd better have Joe; there's nothing like a good servant at table. I say, Janet, just
send that fellow in, will you?"

"We shall do very well without him," said the doctor, becoming rather red about the cheek-bones,
and with a slight gleam of determination about the eye. Janet, who saw how matters stood, made
no attempt to obey the baronet's order.

"Oh, nonsense, doctor; you think he's an uppish sort of fellow, I know, and you don't like
to trouble him; but when I'm near him, he's all right; just send him in, will you?"

"Sir Louis," said the doctor, "I'm accustomed to none but my own old woman here in my own house,
and if you will allow me, I'll keep my old ways. I shall be sorry if you are not comfortable."
The baronet said nothing more, and the dinner passed off slowly and wearily enough.

When Mary had eaten her fruit and escaped, the doctor got into one arm-chair and the baronet
into another, and the latter began the only work of existence of which he knew anything.

"That's good port," said he; "very fair port."

The doctor loved his port wine, and thawed a little in his manner. He loved it not as a toper,
but as a collector loves his pet pictures. He liked to talk about it, and think about it; to
praise it, and hear it praised; to look at it turned towards the light, and to count over the
years it had lain in his cellar.

"Yes," said he, "it's pretty fair wine. It was, at least, when I got it, twenty years ago,
and I don't suppose time has hurt it;" and he held the glass up to the window, and looked at
the evening light through the ruby tint of the liquid. "Ah, dear, there's not much of it left;
more's the pity."

"A good thing won't last for ever. I'll tell you what now; I wish I'd brought down a dozen
or two of claret. I've some prime stuff in London; got it from Muzzle & Drug, at ninety-six
shillings; it was a great favour, though. I'll tell you what now, I'll send up for a couple
of dozen to-morrow. I mustn't drink you out of house, high and dry; must I, doctor?"

The doctor froze immediately.

"I don't think I need trouble you," said he; "I never drink claret, at least not here; and
there's enough of the old bin left to last some little time longer yet."

Sir Louis drank two or three glasses of wine very quickly after each other, and they immediately
began to tell upon his weak stomach. But before he was tipsy, he became more impudent and more
disagreeable.

"Doctor," said he, "when are we to see any of this Greshamsbury money? That's what I want to know."

"Your money is quite safe, Sir Louis; and the interest is paid to the day."

"Interest, yes; but how do I know how long it will be paid? I should like to see the principal.
A hundred thousand pounds, or something like it, is a precious large stake to have in one man's
hands, and he preciously hard up himself. I'll tell you what, doctor--I shall look the squire
up myself."

"Look him up?"

"Yes; look him up; ferret him out; tell him a bit of my mind. I'll thank you to pass the bottle.
D---- me doctor; I mean to know how things are going on."

"Your money is quite safe," repeated the doctor, "and, to my mind, could not be better invested."

"That's all very well; d---- well, I dare say, for you and Squire Gresham--"

"What do you mean, Sir Louis?"

"Mean! why I mean that I'll sell the squire up; that's what I mean--hallo--beg pardon. I'm
blessed if I haven't broken the water-jug. That comes of having water on the table. Oh, d----
me, it's all over me." And then, getting up, to avoid the flood he himself had caused, he nearly
fell into the doctor's arms.

"You're tired with your journey, Sir Louis; perhaps you'd better go to bed."

"Well, I am a bit seedy or so. Those cursed roads of yours shake a fellow so."

The doctor rang the bell, and, on this occasion, did request that Joe might be sent for. Joe
came in, and, though he was much steadier than his master, looked as though he also had found
some bin of which he had approved.

"Sir Louis wishes to go to bed," said the doctor; "you had better give him your arm."

"Oh, yes; in course I will," said Joe, standing immoveable about half-way between the door
and the table.

"I'll just take one more glass of the old port--eh, doctor?" said Sir Louis, putting out his
hand and clutching the decanter.

It is very hard for any man to deny his guest in his own house, and the doctor, at the moment,
did not know how to do it; so Sir Louis got his wine, after pouring half of it over the table.

"Come in, sir, and give Sir Louis your arm," said the doctor, angrily.

"So I will in course, if my master tells me; but, if you please, Dr Thorne,"--and Joe put his
hand up to his hair in a manner that a great deal more of impudence than reverence in it--"I
just want to ax one question: where be I to sleep?"

Now this was a question which the doctor was not prepared to answer on the spur of the moment,
however well Janet or Mary might have been able to do so.

"Sleep," said he, "I don't know where you are to sleep, and don't care; ask Janet."

"That's all very well, master--"

"Hold your tongue, sirrah!" said Sir Louis. "What the devil do you want of sleep?--come here,"
and then, with his servant's help, he made his way up to his bedroom, and was no more heard
of that night.

"Did he get tipsy," asked Mary, almost in a whisper, when her uncle joined her in the drawing-room.

"Don't talk of it," said he. "Poor wretch! poor wretch! Let's have some tea now, Molly, and
pray don't talk any more about him to-night." Then Mary did make the tea, and did not talk
any more about Sir Louis that night.

What on earth were they to do with him? He had come there self-invited; but his connexion with
the doctor was such, that it was impossible he should be told to go away, either he himself,
or that servant of his. There was no reason to disbelieve him when he declared that he had
come down to ferret out the squire. Such was, doubtless, his intention. He would ferret out
the squire. Perhaps he might ferret out Lady Arabella also. Frank would be home in a few days;
and he, too, might be ferreted out.

But the matter took a very singular turn, and one quite unexpected on the doctor's part. On
the morning following the little dinner of which we have spoken, one of the Greshamsbury grooms
rode up to the doctor's door with two notes. One was addressed to the doctor in the squire's
well-known large handwriting, and the other was for Sir Louis. Each contained an invitation
do dinner for the following day; and that to the doctor was in this wise:--

   DEAR DOCTOR,

   Do come and dine here to-morrow, and bring Sir Louis
   Scatcherd with you. If you're the man I take you to be,
   you won't refuse me. Lady Arabella sends a note for
   Sir Louis. There will be nobody here but Oriel, and Mr
   Gazebee, who is staying in the house.

   Yours ever,

   F. N. GRESHAM.

   Greshamsbury, July, 185--.

   P.S.--I make a positive request that you'll come, and I
   think you will hardly refuse me.

The doctor read it twice before he could believe it, and then ordered Janet to take the other
note up to Sir Louis. As these invitations were rather in opposition to the then existing Greshamsbury
tactics, the cause of Lady Arabella's special civility must be explained.

Mr Mortimer Gazebee was now at the house, and therefore, it must be presumed, that things were
not allowed to go on after their old fashion. Mr Gazebee was an acute as well as a fashionable
man; one who knew what he was about, and who, moreover, had determined to give his very best
efforts on behalf of the Greshamsbury property. His energy, in this respect, will explain itself
hereafter. It was not probable that the arrival in the village of such a person as Sir Louis
Scatcherd should escape attention. He had heard of it before dinner, and, before the evening
was over, had discussed it with Lady Arabella.

Her ladyship was not at first inclined to make much of Sir Louis, and expressed herself as
but little inclined to agree with Mr Gazebee when that gentleman suggested that he should be
treated with civility at Greshamsbury. But she was at last talked over. She found it pleasant
enough to have more to do with the secret management of the estate than Mr Gresham himself;
and when Mr Gazebee proved to her, by sundry nods and winks, and subtle allusions to her own
infinite good sense, that it was necessary to catch this obscene bird which had come to prey
upon the estate, by throwing a little salt upon his tail, she also nodded and winked, and directed
Augusta to prepare the salt according to order.

"But won't it be odd, Mr Gazebee, asking him out of Dr Thorne's house?"

"Oh, we must have the doctor, too, Lady Arabella; by all means ask the doctor also."

Lady Arabella's brow grew dark. "Mr Gazebee," she said, "you can hardly believe how that man
has behaved to me."

"He is altogether beneath your anger," said Mr Gazebee, with a bow.

"I don't know: in one way he may be, but not in another. I really do not think I can sit down
to table with Doctor Thorne."

But, nevertheless, Mr Gazebee gained his point. It was now about a week since Sir Omicron Pie
had been at Greshamsbury, and the squire had, almost daily, spoken to his wife as to that learned
man's advice. Lady Arabella always answered in the same tone: "You can hardly know, Mr Gresham,
how that man has insulted me." But, nevertheless, the physician's advice had not been disbelieved:
it tallied too well with her own inward convictions. She was anxious enough to have Doctor
Thorne back at her bedside, if she could only get him there without damage to her pride. Her
husband, she thought, might probably send the doctor there without absolute permission from
herself; in which case she would have been able to scold, and show that she was offended; and,
at the same time, profit by what had been done. But Mr Gresham never thought of taking so violent
a step as this, and, therefore, Dr Fillgrave still came, and her ladyship's finesse was wasted
in vain.

But Mr Gazebee's proposition opened a door by which her point might be gained. "Well," said
she, at last, with infinite self-denial, "if you think it is for Mr Gresham's advantage, and
if he chooses to ask Dr Thorne, I will not refuse to receive him."

Mr Gazebee's next task was to discuss the matter with the squire. Nor was this easy, for Mr
Gazebee was no favourite with Mr Gresham. But the task was at last performed successfully.
Mr Gresham was so glad at heart to find himself able, once more, to ask his old friend to his
own house; and, though it would have pleased him better that this sign of relenting on his
wife's part should have reached him by other means, he did not refuse to take advantage of
it; and so he wrote the above letter to Dr Thorne.

The doctor, as we have said, read it twice; and he at once resolved stoutly that he would not go.

"Oh, do, do go!" said Mary. She well knew how wretched this feud had made her uncle. "Pray,
pray go!"

"Indeed, I will not," said he. "There are some things a man should bear, and some he should not."

"You must go," said Mary, who had taken the note from her uncle's hand, and read it. "You cannot
refuse him when he asks you like that."

"It will greatly grieve me; but I must refuse him."

"I also am angry, uncle; very angry with Lady Arabella; but for him, for the squire, I would
go to him on my knees if he asked me in that way."

"Yes; and had he asked you, I also would have gone."

"Oh! now I shall be so wretched. It is his invitation, not hers: Mr Gresham could not ask me.
As for her, do not think of her; but do, do go when he asks you like that. You will make me
so miserable if you do not. And then Sir Louis cannot go without you,"--and Mary pointed upstairs--"and
you may be sure that he will go."

"Yes; and make a beast of himself."

This colloquy was cut short by a message praying the doctor to go up to Sir Louis's room. The
young man was sitting in his dressing-gown, drinking a cup of coffee at his toilet-table, while
Joe was preparing his razor and hot water. The doctor's nose immediately told him that there
was more in the coffee-cup than had come out of his own kitchen, and he would not let the offence
pass unnoticed.

"Are you taking brandy this morning, Sir Louis?"

"Just a little chasse-café," said he, not exactly understanding the word he used. "It's all
the go now; and a capital thing for the stomach."

"It's not a capital thing for your stomach;--about the least capital thing you can take; that
is, if you wish to live."

"Never mind about that now, doctor, but look here. This is what we call the civil thing--eh?"
and he showed the Greshamsbury note. "Not but what they have an object, of course. I understand
all that. Lots of girls there--eh?"

The doctor took the note and read it. "It is civil," said he; "very civil."

"Well; I shall go, of course. I don't bear malice because he can't pay me the money he owes
me. I'll eat his dinner, and look at the girls. Have you an invite too, doctor?"

"Yes; I have."

"And you'll go?"

"I think not; but that need not deter you. But, Sir Louis--"

"Well! eh! what is it?"

"Step downstairs a moment," said the doctor, turning to the servant, "and wait till you are
called for. I wish to speak to your master." Joe, for a moment, looked up at the baronet's
face, as though he wanted but the slightest encouragement to disobey the doctor's orders; but
not seeing it, he slowly retired, and placed himself, of course, at the keyhole.

And then, the doctor began a long and very useless lecture. The first object of it was to induce
his ward not to get drunk at Greshamsbury; but having got so far, he went on, and did succeed
in frightening his unhappy guest. Sir Louis did not possess the iron nerves of his father--nerves
which even brandy had not been able to subdue. The doctor spoke strongly, very strongly; spoke
of quick, almost immediate death in case of further excesses; spoke to him of the certainty
there would be that he could not live to dispose of his own property if he could not refrain.
And thus he did frighten Sir Louis. The father he had never been able to frighten. But there
are men who, though they fear death hugely, fear present suffering more; who, indeed, will
not bear a moment of pain if there by any mode of escape. Sir Louis was such: he had no strength
of nerve, no courage, no ability to make a resolution and keep it. He promised the doctor that
he would refrain; and, as he did so, he swallowed down his cup of coffee and brandy, in which
the two articles bore about equal proportions.

The doctor did, at last, make up his mind to go. Whichever way he determined, he found that
he was not contented with himself. He did not like to trust Sir Louis by himself, and he did
not like to show that he was angry. Still less did he like the idea of breaking bread in Lady
Arabella's house till some amends had been made to Mary. But his heart would not allow him
to refuse the petition contained in the squire's postscript, and the matter ended in his accepting
the invitation.

This visit of his ward's was, in every way, pernicious to the doctor. He could not go about
his business, fearing to leave such a man alone with Mary. On the afternoon of the second day,
she escaped to the parsonage for an hour or so, and then walked away among the lanes, calling
on some of her old friends among the farmers' wives. But even then, the doctor was afraid to
leave Sir Louis. What could such a man do, left alone in a village like Greshamsbury? So he
stayed at home, and the two together went over their accounts. The baronet was particular about
his accounts, and said a good deal as to having Finnie over to Greshamsbury. To this, however,
Dr Thorne positively refused his consent.

The evening passed off better than the preceding one; at least the early part of it. Sir Louis
did not get tipsy; he came up to tea, and Mary, who did not feel so keenly on the subject as
her uncle, almost wished that he had done so. At ten o'clock he went to bed.

But after that new troubles came on. The doctor had gone downstairs into his study to make
up some of the time which he had lost, and had just seated himself at his desk, when Janet,
without announcing herself, burst into the room; and Bridget, dissolved in hysterical tears,
with her apron to her eyes, appeared behind the senior domestic.

"Please, sir," said Janet, driven by excitement much beyond her usual pace of speaking, and
becoming unintentionally a little less respectful than usual, "please sir, that 'ere young
man must go out of this here house; or else no respectable young 'ooman can't stop here; no,
indeed, sir; and we be sorry to trouble you, Dr Thorne; so we be."

"What young man? Sir Louis?" asked the doctor.

"Oh, no! he abides mostly in bed, and don't do nothing amiss; least way not to us. 'Tan't him,
sir; but his man."

"Man!" sobbed Bridget from behind. "He an't no man, nor nothing like a man. If Tummas had been
here, he wouldn't have dared; so he wouldn't." Thomas was the groom, and, if all Greshamsbury
reports were true, it was probable, that on some happy, future day, Thomas and Bridget would
become one flesh and one bone.

"Please sir," continued Janet, "there'll be bad work here if that 'ere young man doesn't quit
this here house this very night, and I'm sorry to trouble you, doctor; and so I am. But Tom,
he be given to fight a'most for nothin'. He's hout now; but if that there young man be's here
when Tom comes home, Tom will be punching his head; I know he will."

"He wouldn't stand by and see a poor girl put upon; no more he wouldn't," said Bridget, through
her tears.

After many futile inquiries, the doctor ascertained that Mr Jonah had expressed some admiration
for Bridget's youthful charms, and had, in the absence of Janet, thrown himself at the lady's
feet in a manner which had not been altogether pleasing to her. She had defended herself stoutly
and loudly, and in the middle of the row Janet had come down.

"And where is he now?" said the doctor.

"Why, sir," said Janet, "the poor girl was so put about that she did give him one touch across
the face with the rolling-pin, and he be all bloody now, in the back kitchen." At hearing this
achievement of hers thus spoken of, Bridget sobbed more hysterically than ever; but the doctor,
looking at her arm as she held her apron to her face, thought in his heart that Joe must have
had so much the worst of it, that there could be no possible need for the interference of Thomas
the groom.

And such turned out to be the case. The bridge of Joe's nose was broken; and the doctor had
to set it for him in a little bedroom at the village public-house, Bridget having positively
refused to go to bed in the same house with so dreadful a character.

"Quiet now, or I'll be serving thee the same way; thee see I've found the trick of it." The
doctor could not but hear so much as he made his way into his own house by the back door, after
finishing his surgical operation. Bridget was recounting to her champion the fracas that had
occurred; and he, as was so natural, was expressing his admiration at her valour.

CHAPTER XXXV

Sir Louis Goes Out to Dinner

The next day Joe did not make his appearance, and Sir Louis, with many execrations, was driven
to the terrible necessity of dressing himself. Then came an unexpected difficulty: how were
they to get up to the house? Walking out to dinner, though it was merely through the village
and up the avenue, seemed to Sir Louis to be a thing impossible. Indeed, he was not well able
to walk at all, and positively declared that he should never be able to make his way over the
gravel in pumps. His mother would not have thought half as much of walking from Boxall Hill
to Greshamsbury and back again. At last, the one village fly was sent for, and the matter was
arranged.

When they reached the house, it was easy to see that there was some unwonted bustle. In the
drawing-room there was no one but Mr Mortimer Gazebee, who introduced himself to them both.
Sir Louis, who knew that he was only an attorney, did not take much notice of him, but the
doctor entered into conversation.

"Have you heard that Mr Gresham has come home?" said Mr Gazebee.

"Mr Gresham! I did not know that he had been away."

"Mr Gresham, junior, I mean." No, indeed; the doctor had not heard. Frank had returned unexpectedly
just before dinner, and he was now undergoing his father's smiles, his mother's embraces, and
his sisters' questions.

"Quite unexpectedly," said Mr Gazebee. "I don't know what has brought him back before his time.
I suppose he found London too hot."

"Deuced hot," said the baronet. "I found it so, at least. I don't know what keeps men in London
when it's so hot; except those fellows who have business to do: they're paid for it."

Mr Mortimer Gazebee looked at him. He was managing an estate which owed Sir Louis an enormous
sum of money, and, therefore, he could not afford to despise the baronet; but he thought to
himself, what a very abject fellow the man would be if he were not a baronet, and had not a
large fortune!

And then the squire came in. His broad, honest face was covered with a smile when he saw the
doctor.

"Thorne," he said, almost in a whisper, "you're the best fellow breathing; I have hardly deserved
this." The doctor, as he took his old friend's hand, could not but be glad that he had followed
Mary's counsel.

"So Frank has come home?"

"Oh, yes; quite unexpectedly. He was to have stayed a week longer in London. You would hardly
know him if you met him. Sir Louis, I beg your pardon." And the squire went up to his other
guest, who had remained somewhat sullenly standing in one corner of the room. He was the man
of highest rank present, or to be present, and he expected to be treated as such.

"I am happy to have the pleasure of making your acquaintance, Mr Gresham," said the baronet,
intending to be very courteous. "Though we have not met before, I very often see your name
in my accounts--ha! ha! ha!" and Sir Louis laughed as though he had said something very good.

The meeting between Lady Arabella and the doctor was rather distressing to the former; but
she managed to get over it. She shook hands with him graciously, and said that it was a fine
day. The doctor said that it was fine, only perhaps a little rainy. And then they went into
different parts of the room.

When Frank came in, the doctor hardly did know him. His hair was darker than it had been, and
so was his complexion; but his chief disguise was in a long silken beard, which hung down over
his cravat. The doctor had hitherto not been much in favour of long beards, but he could not
deny that Frank looked very well with the appendage.

"Oh, doctor, I am so delighted to find you here," said he, coming up to him; "so very, very
glad:" and, taking the doctor's arm, he led him away into a window, where they were alone.
"And how is Mary?" said he, almost in a whisper. "Oh, I wish she were here! But, doctor, it
shall all come in time. But tell me, doctor, there is no news about her, is there?"

"News--what news?"

"Oh, well; no news is good news: you will give her my love, won't you?"

The doctor said that he would. What else could he say? It appeared quite clear to him that
some of Mary's fears were groundless.

Frank was again very much altered. It has been said, that though he was a boy at twenty-one,
he was a man at twenty-two. But now, at twenty-three, he appeared to be almost a man of the
world. His manners were easy, his voice under his control, and words were at his command: he
was no longer either shy or noisy; but, perhaps, was open to the charge of seeming, at least,
to be too conscious of his own merits. He was, indeed, very handsome; tall, manly, and powerfully
built, his form was such as women's eyes have ever loved to look upon. "Ah, if he would but
marry money!" said Lady Arabella to herself, taken up by a mother's natural admiration for
her son. His sisters clung round him before dinner, all talking to him at once. How proud a
family of girls are of one, big, tall, burly brother!

"You don't mean to tell me, Frank, that you are going to eat soup with that beard?" said the
squire, when they were seated round the table. He had not ceased to rally his son as to this
patriarchal adornment; but, nevertheless, any one could have seen, with half an eye, that he
was as proud of it as were the others.

"Don't I, sir? All I require is a relay of napkins for every course:" and he went to work,
covering it with every spoonful, as men with beards always do.

"Well, if you like it!" said the squire, shrugging his shoulders.

"But I do like it," said Frank.

"Oh, papa, you wouldn't have him cut it off," said one of the twins. "It is so handsome."

"I should like to work it into a chair-back instead of floss-silk," said the other twin.

"Thank'ee, Sophy; I'll remember you for that."

"Doesn't it look nice, and grand, and patriarchal?" said Beatrice, turning to her neighbour.

"Patriarchal, certainly," said Mr Oriel. "I should grow one myself if I had not the fear of
the archbishop before my eyes."

What was next said to him was in a whisper, audible only to himself.

"Doctor, did you know Wildman of the 9th. He was left as surgeon at Scutari for two years.
Why, my beard to his is only a little down."

"A little way down, you mean," said Mr Gazebee.

"Yes," said Frank, resolutely set against laughing at Mr Gazebee's pun. "Why, his beard descends
to his ankles, and he is obliged to tie it in a bag at night, because his feet get entangled
in it when he is asleep!"

"Oh, Frank!" said one of the girls.

This was all very well for the squire, and Lady Arabella, and the girls. They were all delighted
to praise Frank, and talk about him. Neither did it come amiss to Mr Oriel and the doctor,
who had both a personal interest in the young hero. But Sir Louis did not like it at all. He
was the only baronet in the room, and yet nobody took any notice of him. He was seated in the
post of honour, next to Lady Arabella; but even Lady Arabella seemed to think more of her own
son than of him. Seeing how he was ill-used, he meditated revenge; but not the less did it
behove him to make some effort to attract attention.

"Was your ladyship long in London, this season?" said he.

Lady Arabella had not been in London at all this year, and it was a sore subject with her.
"No," said she, very graciously; "circumstances have kept us at home."

Sir Louis only understood one description of "circumstances." Circumstances, in his idea, meant
the want of money, and he immediately took Lady Arabella's speech as a confession of poverty.

"Ah, indeed! I am very sorry for that; that must be very distressing to a person like your
ladyship. But things are mending, perhaps?"

Lady Arabella did not in the least understand him. "Mending!" she said, in her peculiar tone
of aristocratic indifference; and then turned to Mr Gazebee, who was on the other side of her.

Sir Louis was not going to stand this. He was the first man in the room, and he knew his own
importance. It was not to be borne that Lady Arabella should turn to talk to a dirty attorney,
and leave him, a baronet, to eat his dinner without notice. If nothing else would move her,
he would let her know who was the real owner of the Greshamsbury title-deeds.

"I think I saw your ladyship out to-day, taking a ride." Lady Arabella had driven through the
village in her pony-chair.

"I never ride," said she, turning her head for one moment from Mr Gazebee.

"In the one-horse carriage, I mean, my lady. I was delighted with the way you whipped him up
round the corner."

Whipped him up round the corner! Lady Arabella could make no answer to this; so she went on
talking to Mr Gazebee. Sir Louis, repulsed, but not vanquished--resolved not to be vanquished
by any Lady Arabella--turned his attention to his plate for a minute or two, and then recommenced.

"The honour of a glass of wine with you, Lady Arabella," said he.

"I never take wine at dinner," said Lady Arabella. The man was becoming intolerable to her,
and she was beginning to fear that it would be necessary for her to fly the room to get rid of him.

The baronet was again silent for a moment; but he was determined not to be put down.

"This is a nice-looking country about her," said he.

"Yes; very nice," said Mr Gazebee, endeavouring to relieve the lady of the mansion.

"I hardly know which I like best; this, or my own place at Boxall Hill. You have the advantage
here in trees, and those sort of things. But, as to the house, why, my box there is very comfortable,
very. You'd hardly know the place now, Lady Arabella, if you haven't seen it since my governor
bought it. How much do you think he spent about the house and grounds, pineries included, you
know, and those sort of things?"

Lady Arabella shook her head.

"Now guess, my lady," said he. But it was not to be supposed that Lady Arabella should guess
on such a subject.

"I never guess," said she, with a look of ineffable disgust.

"What do you say, Mr Gazebee?"

"Perhaps a hundred thousand pounds."

"What! for a house! You can't know much about money, nor yet about building, I think, Mr Gazebee."

"Not much," said Mr Gazebee, "as to such magnificent places as Boxall Hill."

"Well, my lady, if you won't guess, I'll tell you. It cost twenty-two thousand four hundred
and nineteen pounds four shillings and eightpence. I've all the accounts exact. Now, that's
a tidy lot of money for a house for a man to live in."

Sir Louis spoke this in a loud tone, which at least commanded the attention of the table. Lady
Arabella, vanquished, bowed her head, and said that it was a large sum; Mr Gazebee went on
sedulously eating his dinner; the squire was struck momentarily dumb in the middle of a long
chat with the doctor; even Mr Oriel ceased to whisper; and the girls opened their eyes with
astonishment. Before the end of his speech, Sir Louis's voice had become very loud.

"Yes, indeed," said Frank; "a very tidy lot of money. I'd have generously dropped the four
and eightpence if I'd been the architect."

"It wasn't all one bill; but that's the tot. I can show the bills:" and Sir Louis, well pleased
with his triumph, swallowed a glass of wine.

Almost immediately after the cloth was removed, Lady Arabella escaped, and the gentlemen clustered
together. Sir Louis found himself next to Mr Oriel, and began to make himself agreeable.

"A very nice girl, Miss Beatrice; very nice."

Now Mr Oriel was a modest man, and, when thus addressed as to his future wife, found it difficult
to make any reply.

"You parsons always have your own luck," said Sir Louis. "You get all the beauty, and generally
all the money, too. Not much of the latter in this case, though--eh?"

Mr Oriel was dumbfounded. He had never said a word to any creature as to Beatrice's dowry;
and when Mr Gresham had told him, with sorrow, that his daughter's portion must be small, he
had at once passed away from the subject as one that was hardly fit for conversation, even
between him and his future father-in-law; and now he was abruptly questioned on the subject
by a man he had never before seen in his life. Of course, he could make no answer.

"The squire has muddled his matters most uncommonly," continued Sir Louis, filling his glass
for the second time before he passed the bottle. "What do you suppose now he owes me alone;
just at one lump, you know?"

Mr Oriel had nothing for it but to run. He could make no answer, nor would he sit there to
hear tidings as to Mr Gresham's embarrassments. So he fairly retreated, without having said
one word to his neighbour, finding such discretion to be the only kind of valour left to him.

"What, Oriel! off already?" said the squire. "Anything the matter?"

"Oh, no; nothing particular. I'm not just quite--I think I'll go out for a few minutes."

"See what it is to be in love," said the squire, half-whispering to Dr Thorne. "You're not
in the same way, I hope?"

Sir Louis then shifted his seat again, and found himself next to Frank. Mr Gazebee was opposite
to him, and the doctor opposite to Frank.

"Parson seems peekish, I think," said the baronet.

"Peekish?" said the squire, inquisitively.

"Rather down on his luck. He's decently well off himself, isn't he?"

There was another pause, and nobody seemed inclined to answer the question.

"I mean, he's got something more than his bare living."

"Oh, yes," said Frank, laughing. "He's got what will buy him bread and cheese when the Rads
shut up the Church:--unless, indeed, they shut up the Funds too."

"Ah, there's nothing like land," said Sir Louis: "nothing like the dirty acres; is there, squire?"

"Land is a very good investment, certainly," said the Mr Gresham.

"The best going," said the other, who was now, as people say when they mean to be good-natured,
slightly under the influence of liquor. "The best going--eh, Gazebee?"

Mr Gazebee gathered himself up, and turned away his head, looking out of the window.

"You lawyers never like to give an opinion without money, ha! ha! ha! Do they, Mr Gresham?
You and I have had to pay for plenty of them, and will have to pay for plenty more before they
let us alone."

Here Mr Gazebee got up, and followed Mr Oriel out of the room. He was not, of course, on such
intimate terms in the house as was Mr Oriel; but he hoped to be forgiven by the ladies in consequence
of the severity of the miseries to which he was subjected. He and Mr Oriel were soon to be
seen through the dining-room window, walking about the grounds with the two eldest Miss Greshams.
And Patience Oriel, who had also been of the party, was also to be seen with the twins. Frank
looked at his father with almost a malicious smile, and began to think that he too might be
better employed out among the walks. Did he think then of a former summer evening, when he
had half broken Mary's heart by walking there too lovingly with Patience Oriel?

Sir Louis, if he continued his brilliant career of success, would soon be left the cock of
the walk. The squire, to be sure, could not bolt, nor could the doctor very well; but they
might be equally vanquished, remaining there in their chairs. Dr Thorne, during all this time,
was sitting with tingling ears. Indeed, it may be said that his whole body tingled. He was
in a manner responsible for this horrid scene; but what could he do to stop it? He could not
take Sir Louis up bodily and carry him away. One idea did occur to him. The fly had been ordered
for ten o'clock. He could rush out and send for it instantly.

"You're not going to leave me?" said the squire, in a voice of horror, as he saw the doctor
rising from his chair.

"Oh, no, no, no," said the doctor; and then he whispered the purpose of his mission. "I will
be back in two minutes." The doctor would have given twenty pounds to have closed the scene
at once; but he was not the man to desert his friend in such a strait as that.

"He's a well-meaning fellow, the doctor," said Sir Louis, when his guardian was out of the
room, "very; but he's not up to trap--not at all."

"Up to trap--well, I should say he was; that is, if I know what trap means," said Frank.

"Ah, but that's just the ticket. Do you know? Now I say Dr Thorne's not a man of the world."

"He's about the best man I know, or ever heard of," said the squire. "And if any man ever had
a good friend, you have got one in him; and so have I:" and the squire silently drank the doctor's
health.

"All very true, I dare say; but yet he's not up to trap. Now look here, squire--"

"If you don't mind, sir," said Frank, "I've got something very particular--perhaps, however--"

"Stay till Thorne returns, Frank."

Frank did stay till Thorne returned, and then escaped.

"Excuse me, doctor," said he, "but I've something very particular to say; I'll explain to-morrow."
And then the three were left alone.

Sir Louis was now becoming almost drunk, and was knocking his words together. The squire had
already attempted to stop the bottle; but the baronet had contrived to get hold of a modicum
of Madeira, and there was no preventing him from helping himself; at least, none at that moment.

"As we were saying about lawyers," continued Sir Louis. "Let's see, what were we saying? Why,
squire, it's just here. Those fellows will fleece us both if we don't mind what we are after."

"Never mind about lawyers now," said Dr Thorne, angrily.

"Ah, but I do mind; most particularly. That's all very well for you, doctor; you've nothing
to lose. You've no great stake in the matter. Why, now, what sum of money of mine do you think
those d---- doctors are handling?"

"D---- doctors!" said the squire in a tone of dismay.

"Lawyers, I mean, of course. Why, now, Gresham; we're all totted now, you see; you're down
in my books, I take it, for pretty near a hundred thousand pounds."

"Hold your tongue, sir," said the doctor, getting up.

"Hold my tongue!" said Sir Louis.

"Sir Louis Scatcherd," said the squire, slowly rising from his chair, "we will not, if you
please, talk about business at the present moment. Perhaps we had better go to the ladies."

This latter proposition had certainly not come from the squire's heart: going to the ladies
was the very last thing for which Sir Louis was now fit. But the squire had said it as being
the only recognised formal way he could think of for breaking up the symposium.

"Oh, very well," hiccupped the baronet, "I'm always ready for the ladies," and he stretched
out his hand to the decanter to get a last glass of Madeira.

"No," said the doctor, rising stoutly, and speaking with a determined voice. "No; you will
have no more wine:" and he took the decanter from him.

"What's all this about?" said Sir Louis, with a drunken laugh.

"Of course he cannot go into the drawing-room, Mr Gresham. If you will leave him here with
me, I will stay with him till the fly comes. Pray tell Lady Arabella from me, how sorry I am
that this has occurred."

The squire would not leave his friend, and they sat together till the fly came. It was not
long, for the doctor had dispatched his messenger with much haste.

"I am so heartily ashamed of myself," said the doctor, almost with tears.

The squire took him by the hand affectionately. "I've seen a tipsy man before to-night," said he.

"Yes," said the doctor, "and so have I, but--" He did not express the rest of his thoughts.

CHAPTER XXXVI

Will He Come Again?

Long before the doctor returned home after the little dinner-party above described, Mary had
learnt that Frank was already at Greshamsbury. She had heard nothing of him or from him, not
a word, nothing in the shape of a message, for twelve months; and at her age twelve months
is a long period. Would he come and see her in spite of his mother? Would he send her any tidings
of his return, or notice her in any way? If he did not, what would she do? and if he did, what
then would she do? It was so hard to resolve; so hard to be deserted; and so hard to dare to
wish that she might not be deserted! She continued to say to herself, that it would be better
that they should be strangers; and she could hardly keep herself from tears in the fear that
they might be so. What chance could there be that he should care for her, after an absence
spent in travelling over the world? No; she would forget that affair of his hand; and then,
immediately after having so determined, she would confess to herself that it was a thing not
to be forgotten, and impossible of oblivion.

On her uncle's return, she would hear some word about him; and so she sat alone, with a book
before her, of which she could not read a line. She expected them about eleven, and was, therefore,
rather surprised when the fly stopped at the door before nine.

She immediately heard her uncle's voice, loud and angry, calling for Thomas. Both Thomas and
Bridget were unfortunately out, being, at this moment, forgetful of all sublunary cares, and
seated in happiness under a beech-tree in the park. Janet flew to the little gate, and there
found Sir Louis insisting that he would be taken at once to his own mansion at Boxall Hill,
and positively swearing that he would no longer submit to the insult of the doctor's surveillance.

In the absence of Thomas, the doctor was forced to apply for assistance to the driver of the
fly. Between them the baronet was dragged out of the vehicle, the windows suffered much, and
the doctor's hat also. In this way, he was taken upstairs, and was at last put to bed, Janet
assisting; nor did the doctor leave the room till his guest was asleep. Then he went into the
drawing-room to Mary. It may easily be conceived that he was hardly in a humour to talk much
about Frank Gresham.

"What am I to do with him?" said he, almost in tears: "what am I to do with him?"

"Can you not send him to Boxall Hill?" asked Mary.

"Yes; to kill himself there! But it is no matter; he will kill himself somewhere. Oh! what
that family have done for me!" And then, suddenly remembering a portion of their doings, he
took Mary in his arms, and kissed and blessed her; and declared that, in spite of all this,
he was a happy man.

There was no word about Frank that night. The next morning the doctor found Sir Louis very
weak, and begging for stimulants. He was worse than weak; he was in such a state of wretched
misery and mental prostration; so low in heart, in such collapse of energy and spirit, that
Dr Thorne thought it prudent to remove his razors from his reach.

"For God's sake do let me have a little chasse-café; I'm always used to it; ask Joe if I'm
not! You don't want to kill me, do you?" And the baronet cried piteously, like a child, and,
when the doctor left him for the breakfast-table, abjectly implored Janet to get him some curaçoa
which he knew was in one of his portmanteaus. Janet, however, was true to her master.

The doctor did give him some wine; and then, having left strict orders as to his treatment--Bridget
and Thomas being now both in the house--went forth to some of his too much neglected patients.

Then Mary was again alone, and her mind flew away to her lover. How should she be able to compose
herself when she should first see him? See him she must. People cannot live in the same village
without meeting. If she passed him at the church-door, as she often passed Lady Arabella, what
should she do? Lady Arabella always smiled a peculiar, little, bitter smile, and this, with
half a nod of recognition, carried off the meeting. Should she try the bitter smile, the half-nod
with Frank? Alas! she knew it was not in her to be so much mistress of her own heart's blood.

As she thus thought, she stood at the drawing-room window, looking out into her garden; and,
as she leant against the sill, her head was surrounded by the sweet creepers. "At any rate,
he won't come here," she said: and so, with a deep sigh, she turned from the window into the room.

There he was, Frank Gresham himself standing there in her immediate presence, beautiful as
Apollo. Her next thought was how she might escape from out of his arms. How it happened that
she had fallen into them, she never knew.

"Mary! my own, own love! my own one! sweetest! dearest! best! Mary! dear Mary! have you not
a word to say to me?"

No; she had not a word, though her life had depended on it. The exertion necessary for not
crying was quite enough for her. This, then, was the bitter smile and the half-nod that was
to pass between them; this was the manner in which estrangement was to grow into indifference;
this was the mode of meeting by which she was to prove that she was mistress of her conduct,
if not her heart! There he held her close bound to his breast, and she could only protect her
face, and that all ineffectually, with her hands. "He loves another," Beatrice had said. "At
any rate, he will not love me," her own heart had said also. Here was now the answer.

"You know you cannot marry him," Beatrice had said, also. Ah! if that really were so, was not
this embrace deplorable for them both? And yet how could she not be happy? She endeavoured
to repel him; but with what a weak endeavour! Her pride had been wounded to the core, not by
Lady Arabella's scorn, but by the conviction which had grown on her, that though she had given
her own heart absolutely away, had parted with it wholly and for ever, she had received nothing
in return. The world, her world, would know that she had loved, and loved in vain. But here
now was the loved one at her feet; the first moment that his enforced banishment was over,
had brought him there. How could she not be happy?

They all said that she could not marry him. Well, perhaps it might be so; nay, when she thought
of it, must not that edict too probably be true? But if so, it would not be his fault. He was
true to her, and that satisfied her pride. He had taken from her, by surprise, a confession
of her love. She had often regretted her weakness in allowing him to do so; but she could not
regret it now. She could endure to suffer; nay, it would not be suffering while he suffered
with her.

"Not one word, Mary? Then after all my dreams, after all my patience, you do not love me at last?"

Oh, Frank! notwithstanding what has been said in thy praise, what a fool thou art! Was any
word necessary for thee? Had not her heart beat against thine? Had she not borne thy caresses?
Had there been one touch of anger when she warded off thy threatened kisses? Bridget, in the
kitchen, when Jonah became amorous, smashed his nose with the rolling-pin. But when Thomas
sinned, perhaps as deeply, she only talked of doing so. Miss Thorne, in the drawing-room, had
she needed self-protection, could doubtless have found the means, though the process would
probably have been less violent.

At last Mary succeeded in her efforts at enfranchisement, and she and Frank stood at some little
distance from each other. She could not but marvel at him. That long, soft beard, which just
now had been so close to her face, was all new; his whole look was altered; his mien, and gait,
and very voice were not the same. Was this, indeed, the very Frank who had chattered of his
boyish love, two years since, in the gardens at Greshamsbury?

"Not one word of welcome, Mary?"

"Indeed, Mr Gresham, you are welcome home."

"Mr Gresham! Tell me, Mary--tell me, at once--has anything happened? I could not ask up there."

"Frank," she said, and then stopped; not being able at the moment to get any further.

"Speak to me honestly, Mary; honestly and bravely. I offered you my hand once before; there
it is again. Will you take it?"

She looked wistfully up in his eyes; she would fain have taken it. But though a girl may be
honest in such a case, it is so hard for her to be brave.

He still held out his hand. "Mary," said he, "if you can value it, it shall be yours through
good fortune or ill fortune. There may be difficulties; but if you can love me, we will get
over them. I am a free man; free to do as I please with myself, except so far as I am bound
to you. There is my hand. Will you have it?" And then he, too, looked into her eyes, and waited
composedly, as though determined to have an answer.

She slowly raised her hand, and, as she did so, her eyes fell to the ground. It then drooped
again, and was again raised; and, at last, her light tapering fingers rested on his broad open
palm.

They were soon clutched, and the whole hand brought absolutely within his grasp. "There, now
you are my own!" he said, "and none of them shall part us; my own Mary, my own wife."

"Oh, Frank, is not this imprudent? Is it not wrong?"

"Imprudent! I am sick of prudence. I hate prudence. And as for wrong--no. I say it is not wrong;
certainly not wrong if we love each other. And you do love me, Mary--eh? You do! don't you?"

He would not excuse her, or allow her to escape from saying it in so many words; and when the
words did come at last, they came freely. "Yes, Frank, I do love you; if that were all you
would have no cause for fear."

"And I will have no cause for fear."

"Ah; but your father, Frank, and my uncle. I can never bring myself to do anything that shall
bring either of them to sorrow."

Frank, of course, ran through all his arguments. He would go into a profession, or take a farm
and live in it. He would wait; that is, for a few months. "A few months, Frank!" said Mary.
"Well, perhaps six." "Oh, Frank!" But Frank would not be stopped. He would do anything that
his father might ask him. Anything but the one thing. He would not give up the wife he had
chosen. It would not be reasonable, or proper, or righteous that he should be asked to do so;
and here he mounted a somewhat high horse.

Mary had no arguments which she could bring from her heart to offer in opposition to all this.
She could only leave her hand in his, and feel that she was happier than she had been at any
time since the day of that donkey-ride at Boxall Hill.

"But, Mary," continued he, becoming very grave and serious. "We must be true to each other,
and firm in this. Nothing that any of them can say shall drive me from my purpose; will you
say as much?"

Her hand was still in his, and so she stood, thinking for a moment before she answered him.
But she could not do less for him than he was willing to do for her. "Yes," said she--said
in a very low voice, and with a manner perfectly quiet--"I will be firm. Nothing that they
can say shall shake me. But, Frank, it cannot be soon."

Nothing further occurred in this interview which needs recording. Frank had been three times
told by Mary that he had better go before he did go; and, at last, she was obliged to take
the matter into her own hands, and lead him to the door.

"You are in a great hurry to get rid of me," said he.

"You have been here two hours, and you must go now; what will they all think?"

"Who cares what they think? Let them think the truth: that after a year's absence, I have much
to say to you." However, at last, he did go, and Mary was left alone.

Frank, although he had been so slow to move, had a thousand other things to do, and went about
them at once. He was very much in love, no doubt; but that did not interfere with his interest
in other pursuits. In the first place, he had to see Harry Baker, and Harry Baker's stud. Harry
had been specially charged to look after the black horse during Frank's absence, and the holiday
doings of that valuable animal had to be inquired into. Then the kennel of the hounds had to
be visited, and--as a matter of second-rate importance--the master. This could not be done
on the same day; but a plan for doing so must be concocted with Harry--and then there were
two young pointer pups.

Frank, when he left his betrothed, went about these things quite as vehemently as though he
were not in love at all; quite as vehemently as though he had said nothing as to going into
some profession which must necessarily separate him from horses and dogs. But Mary sat there
at her window, thinking of her love, and thinking of nothing else. It was all in all to her
now. She had pledged herself not to be shaken from her troth by anything, by any person; and
it would behove her to be true to this pledge. True to it, though all the Greshams but one
should oppose her with all their power; true to it, even though her own uncle should oppose her.

And how could she have done any other than so pledge herself, invoked to it as she had been?
How could she do less for him than he was so anxious to do for her? They would talk to her
of maiden delicacy, and tell her that she had put a stain on that snow-white coat of proof,
in confessing her love for one whose friends were unwilling to receive her. Let them so talk.
Honour, honesty, and truth, out-spoken truth, self-denying truth, and fealty from man to man,
are worth more than maiden delicacy; more, at any rate, than the talk of it. It was not for
herself that this pledge had been made. She knew her position, and the difficulties of it;
she knew also the value of it. He had much to offer, much to give; she had nothing but herself.
He had name, and old repute, family, honour, and what eventually would at least be wealth to
her. She was nameless, fameless, portionless. He had come there with all his ardour, with the
impulse of his character, and asked for her love. It was already his own. He had then demanded
her troth, and she acknowledged that he had a right to demand it. She would be his if ever
it should be in his power to take her.

But there let the bargain end. She would always remember, that though it was in her power to
keep her pledge, it might too probably not be in his power to keep his. That doctrine, laid
down so imperatively by the great authorities of Greshamsbury, that edict, which demanded that
Frank should marry money, had come home also to her with a certain force. It would be sad that
the fame of Greshamsbury should perish, and that the glory should depart from the old house.
It might be, that Frank also should perceive that he must marry money. It would be a pity that
he had not seen it sooner; but she, at any rate, would not complain.

And so she stood, leaning on the open window, with her book unnoticed lying beside her. The
sun had been in the mid-sky when Frank had left her, but its rays were beginning to stream
into the room from the west before she moved from her position. Her first thought in the morning
had been this: Would he come to see her? Her last now was more soothing to her, less full of
absolute fear: Would it be right that he should come again?

The first sounds she heard were the footsteps of her uncle, as he came up to the drawing-room,
three steps at a time. His step was always heavy; but when he was disturbed in spirit, it was
slow; when merely fatigued in body by ordinary work, it was quick.

"What a broiling day!" he said, and he threw himself into a chair. "For mercy's sake give me
something to drink." Now the doctor was a great man for summer-drinks. In his house, lemonade,
currant-juice, orange-mixtures, and raspberry-vinegar were used by the quart. He frequently
disapproved of these things for his patients, as being apt to disarrange the digestion; but
he consumed enough himself to throw a large family into such difficulties.

"Ha--a!" he ejaculated, after a draught; "I'm better now. Well, what's the news?"

"You've been out, uncle; you ought to have the news. How's Mrs Green?"

"Really as bad as ennui and solitude can make her."

"And Mrs Oaklerath?"

"She's getting better, because she has ten children to look after, and twins to suckle. What
has he been doing?" And the doctor pointed towards the room occupied by Sir Louis.

Mary's conscience struck her that she had not even asked. She had hardly remembered, during
the whole day, that the baronet was in the house. "I do not think he has been doing much,"
she said. "Janet has been with him all day."

"Has he been drinking?"

"Upon my word, I don't know, uncle. I think not, for Janet has been with him. But, uncle--"

"Well, dear--but just give me a little more of that tipple."

Mary prepared the tumbler, and, as she handed it to him, she said, "Frank Gresham has been
here to-day."

The doctor swallowed his draught, and put down the glass before he made any reply, and even
then he said but little.

"Oh! Frank Gresham."

"Yes, uncle."

"You thought him looking pretty well?"

"Yes, uncle; he was very well, I believe."

Dr Thorne had nothing more to say, so he got up and went to his patient in the next room.

"If he disapproves of it, why does he not say so?" said Mary to herself. "Why does he not advise
me?"

But it was not so easy to give advice while Sir Louis Scatcherd was lying there in that state.

CHAPTER XXXVII

Sir Louis Leaves Greshamsbury

Janet had been sedulous in her attentions to Sir Louis, and had not troubled her mistress;
but she had not had an easy time of it. Her orders had been, that either she or Thomas should
remain in the room the whole day, and those orders had been obeyed.

Immediately after breakfast, the baronet had inquired after his own servant. "His confounded
nose must be right by this time, I suppose?"

"It was very bad, Sir Louis," said the old woman, who imagined that it might be difficult to
induce Jonah to come into the house again.

"A man in such a place as his has no business to be laid up," said the master, with a whine.
"I'll see and get a man who won't break his nose."

Thomas was sent to the inn three or four times, but in vain. The man was sitting up, well enough,
in the tap-room; but the middle of his face was covered with streaks of plaster, and he could
not bring himself to expose his wounds before his conqueror.

Sir Louis began by ordering the woman to bring him chasse-café. She offered him coffee, as
much as he would; but no chasse. "A glass of port wine," she said, "at twelve o'clock, and
another at three had been ordered for him."

"I don't care a ---- for the orders," said Sir Louis; "send me my own man." The man was again
sent for; but would not come. "There's a bottle of that stuff that I take, in that portmanteau,
in the left-hand corner--just hand it to me."

But Janet was not to be done. She would give him no stuff, except what the doctor had ordered,
till the doctor came back. The doctor would then, no doubt, give him anything that was proper.

Sir Louis swore a good deal, and stormed as much as he could. He drank, however, his two glasses
of wine, and he got no more. Once or twice he essayed to get out of bed and dress; but, at
every effort, he found that he could not do it without Joe: and there he was, still under the
clothes when the doctor returned.

"I'll tell you what it is," said he, as soon as his guardian entered the room, "I'm not going
to be made a prisoner of here."

"A prisoner! no, surely not."

"It seems very much like it at present. Your servant here--that old woman--takes it upon her
to say she'll do nothing without your orders."

"Well; she's right there."

"Right! I don't know what you call right; but I won't stand it. You are not going to make a
child of me, Dr Thorne; so you need not think it."

And then there was a long quarrel between them, and but an indifferent reconciliation. The
baronet said that he would go to Boxall Hill, and was vehement in his intention to do so because
the doctor opposed it. He had not, however, as yet ferreted out the squire, or given a bit
of his mind to Mr Gazebee, and it behoved him to do this before he took himself off to his
own country mansion. He ended, therefore, by deciding to go on the next day but one.

"Let it be so, if you are well enough," said the doctor.

"Well enough!" said the other, with a sneer. "There's nothing to make me ill that I know of.
It certainly won't be drinking too much here."

On the next day, Sir Louis was in a different mood, and in one more distressing for the doctor
to bear. His compelled abstinence from intemperate drinking had, no doubt, been good for him;
but his mind had so much sunk under the pain of the privation, that his state was piteous to
behold. He had cried for his servant, as a child cries for its nurse, till at last the doctor,
moved to pity, had himself gone out and brought the man in from the public-house. But when
he did come, Joe was of but little service to his master, as he was altogether prevented from
bringing him either wine or spirits; and when he searched for the liqueur-case, he found that
even that had been carried away.

"I believe you want me to die," he said, as the doctor, sitting by his bedside, was trying,
for the hundredth time, to make him understand that he had but one chance of living.

The doctor was not the least irritated. It would have been as wise to be irritated by the want
of reason in a dog.

"I am doing what I can to save your life," he said calmly; "but, as you said just now, I have
no power over you. As long as you are able to move and remain in my house, you certainly shall
not have the means of destroying yourself. You will be very wise to stay here for a week or
ten days: a week or ten days of healthy living might, perhaps, bring you round."

Sir Louis again declared that the doctor wished him to die, and spoke of sending for his attorney,
Finnie, to come to Greshamsbury to look after him.

"Send for him if you choose," said the doctor. "His coming will cost you three or four pounds,
but can do no other harm."

"And I will send for Fillgrave," threatened the baronet. "I'm not going to die here like a dog."

It was certainly hard upon Dr Thorne that he should be obliged to entertain such a guest in
the house;--to entertain him, and foster him, and care for him, almost as though he were a
son. But he had no alternative; he had accepted the charge from Sir Roger, and he must go through
with it. His conscience, moreover, allowed him no rest in this matter: it harassed him day
and night, driving him on sometimes to great wretchedness. He could not love this incubus that
was on his shoulders; he could not do other than be very far from loving him. Of what use or
value was he to any one? What could the world make of him that would be good, or he of the
world? Was not an early death his certain fate? The earlier it might be, would it not be the
better?

Were he to linger on yet for two years longer--and such a space of life was possible for him--how
great would be the mischief that he might do; nay, certainly would do! Farewell then to all
hopes for Greshamsbury, as far as Mary was concerned. Farewell then to that dear scheme which
lay deep in the doctor's heart, that hope that he might, in his niece's name, give back to
the son the lost property of the father. And might not one year--six months be as fatal. Frank,
they all said, must marry money; and even he--he the doctor himself, much as he despised the
idea for money's sake--even he could not but confess that Frank, as the heir to an old, but
grievously embarrassed property, had no right to marry, at his early age, a girl without a
shilling. Mary, his niece, his own child, would probably be the heiress of this immense wealth;
but he could not tell this to Frank; no, nor to Frank's father while Sir Louis was yet alive.
What, if by so doing he should achieve this marriage for his niece, and that then Sir Louis
should live to dispose of his own? How then would he face the anger of Lady Arabella?

"I will never hanker after a dead man's shoes, neither for myself nor for another," he had
said to himself a hundred times; and as often did he accuse himself of doing so. One path,
however, was plainly open before him. He would keep his peace as to the will; and would use
such efforts as he might use for a son of his own loins to preserve the life that was so valueless.
His wishes, his hopes, his thoughts, he could not control; but his conduct was at his own disposal.

"I say, doctor, you don't really think that I'm going to die?" Sir Louis said, when Dr Thorne
again visited him.

"I don't think at all; I am sure you will kill yourself if you continue to live as you have
lately done."

"But suppose I go all right for a while, and live--live just as you tell me, you know?"

"All of us are in God's hands, Sir Louis. By so doing you will, at any rate, give yourself
the best chance."

"Best chance? Why, d----n, doctor! there are fellows have done ten times worse than I; and
they are not going to kick. Come, now, I know you are trying to frighten me; ain't you, now?"

"I am trying to do the best I can for you."

"It's very hard on a fellow like me; I have nobody to say a kind word to me; no, not one."
And Sir Louis, in his wretchedness, began to weep. "Come, doctor; if you'll put me once more
on my legs, I'll let you draw on the estate for five hundred pounds; by G----, I will."

The doctor went away to his dinner, and the baronet also had his in bed. He could not eat much,
but he was allowed two glasses of wine, and also a little brandy in his coffee. This somewhat
invigorated him, and when Dr Thorne again went to him, in the evening, he did not find him
so utterly prostrated in spirit. He had, indeed, made up his mind to a great resolve; and thus
unfolded his final scheme for his own reformation:--

"Doctor," he began again, "I believe you are an honest fellow; I do indeed."

Dr Thorne could not but thank him for his good opinion.

"You ain't annoyed at what I said this morning, are you?"

The doctor had forgotten the particular annoyance to which Sir Louis alluded; and informed
him that his mind might be at rest on any such matter.

"I do believe you'd be glad to see me well; wouldn't you, now?"

The doctor assured him that such was in very truth the case.

"Well, now, I'll tell you what: I've been thinking about it a great deal to-day; indeed, I
have, and I want to do what's right. Mightn't I have a little drop more of that stuff, just
in a cup of coffee?"

The doctor poured him out a cup of coffee, and put about a teaspoonful of brandy in it. Sir
Louis took it with a disconsolate face, not having been accustomed to such measures in the
use of his favourite beverage.

"I do wish to do what's right--I do, indeed; only, you see, I'm so lonely. As to those fellows
up in London, I don't think that one of them cares a straw about me."

Dr Thorne was of the same way of thinking, and he said so. He could not but feel some sympathy
with the unfortunate man as he thus spoke of his own lot. It was true that he had been thrown
on the world without any one to take care of him.

"My dear friend, I will do the best I can in every way; I will, indeed. I do believe that your
companions in town have been too ready to lead you astray. Drop them, and you may yet do well."

"May I though, doctor? Well, I will drop them. There's Jenkins; he's the best of them; but
even he is always wanting to make money of me. Not but what I'm up to the best of them in that
way."

"You had better leave London, Sir Louis, and change your old mode of life. Go to Boxall Hill
for a while; for two or three years or so; live with your mother there and take to farming."

"What! farming?"

"Yes; that's what all country gentlemen do: take the land there into your own hand, and occupy
your mind upon it."

"Well, doctor, I will--upon one condition."

Dr Thorne sat still and listened. He had no idea what the condition might be, but he was not
prepared to promise acquiescence till he heard it.

"You know what I told you once before," said the baronet.

"I don't remember at this moment."

"About my getting married, you know."

The doctor's brow grew black, and promised no help to the poor wretch. Bad in every way, wretched,
selfish, sensual, unfeeling, purse-proud, ignorant as Sir Louis Scatcherd was, still, there
was left to him the power of feeling something like sincere love. It may be presumed that he
did love Mary Thorne, and that he was at the time earnest in declaring, that if she could be
given to him, he would endeavour to live according to her uncle's counsel. It was only a trifle
he asked; but, alas! that trifle could not be vouchsafed.

"I should much approve of your getting married, but I do not know how I can help you."

"Of course, I mean to Miss Mary: I do love her; I really do, Dr Thorne."

"It is quite impossible, Sir Louis; quite. You do my niece much honour; but I am able to answer
for her, positively, that such a proposition is quite out of the question."

"Look here now, Dr Thorne; anything in the way of settlements--"

"I will not hear a word on the subject: you are very welcome to the use of my house as long
as it may suit you to remain here; but I must insist that my niece shall not be troubled on
this matter."

"Do you mean to say she's in love with that young Gresham?"

This was too much for the doctor's patience. "Sir Louis," said he, "I can forgive you much
for your father's sake. I can also forgive something on the score of your own ill health. But
you ought to know, you ought by this time to have learnt, that there are some things which
a man cannot forgive. I will not talk to you about my niece; and remember this, also, I will
not have her troubled by you:" and, so saying, the doctor left him.

On the next day the baronet was sufficiently recovered to be able to resume his braggadocio
airs. He swore at Janet; insisted on being served by his own man; demanded in a loud voice,
but in vain, that his liqueur-case should be restored to him; and desired that post-horses
might be ready for him on the morrow. On that day he got up and ate his dinner in his bedroom.
On the next morning he countermanded the horses, informing the doctor that he did so because
he had a little bit of business to transact with Squire Gresham before he left the place! With
some difficulty, the doctor made him understand that the squire would not see him on business;
and it was at last decided, that Mr Gazebee should be invited to call on him at the doctor's
house; and this Mr Gazebee agreed to do, in order to prevent the annoyance of having the baronet
up at Greshamsbury.

On this day, the evening before Mr Gazebee's visit, Sir Louis condescended to come down to
dinner. He dined, however, tête-à-tête with the doctor. Mary was not there, nor was anything
said as to her absence. Sir Louis Scatcherd never set eyes upon her again.

He bore himself very arrogantly on that evening, having resumed the airs and would-be dignity
which he thought belonged to him as a man of rank and property. In his periods of low spirits,
he was abject and humble enough; abject, and fearful of the lamentable destiny which at these
moments he believed to be in store for him. But it was one of the peculiar symptoms of his
state, that as he partially recovered his bodily health, the tone of his mind recovered itself
also, and his fears for the time were relieved.

There was very little said between him and the doctor that evening. The doctor sat guarding
the wine, and thinking when he should have his house to himself again. Sir Louis sat moody,
every now and then uttering some impertinence as to the Greshams and the Greshamsbury property,
and, at an early hour, allowed Joe to put him to bed.

The horses were ordered on the next day for three, and, as two, Mr Gazebee came to the house.
He had never been there before, nor had he ever met Dr Thorne except at the squire's dinner.
On this occasion he asked only for the baronet.

"Ah! ah! I'm glad you're come, Mr Gazebee; very glad," said Sir Louis; acting the part of the
rich, great man with all the power he had. "I want to ask you a few questions so as to make
it all clear sailing between us."

"As you have asked to see me, I have come, Sir Louis," said the other, putting on much dignity
as he spoke. "But would it not be better that any business there may be should be done among
the lawyers?"

"The lawyers are very well, I dare say; but when a man has so large a stake at interest as
I have in this Greshamsbury property, why, you see, Mr Gazebee, he feels a little inclined
to look after it himself. Now, do you know, Mr Gazebee, how much it is that Mr Gresham owes me?"

Mr Gazebee, of course, did know very well; but he was not going to discuss the subject with
Sir Louis, if he could help it.

"Whatever claim your father's estate may have on that of Mr Gresham is, as far as I understand,
vested in Dr Thorne's hands as trustee. I am inclined to believe that you have not yourself
at present any claim on Greshamsbury. The interest, as it becomes due, is paid to Dr Thorne;
and if I may be allowed to make a suggestion, I would say that it will not be expedient to
make any change in that arrangement till the property shall come into your own hands."

"I differ from you entirely, Mr Gazebee; in toto, as we used to say at Eton. What you mean
to say is--I can't go to law with Mr Gresham; I'm not so sure of that; but perhaps not. But
I can compel Dr Thorne to look after my interests. I can force him to foreclose. And to tell
you the truth, Gazebee, unless some arrangement is proposed to me which I shall think advantageous,
I shall do so at once. There is near a hundred thousand pounds owing to me; yes to me. Thorne
is only a name in the matter. The money is my money; and, by ----, I mean to look after it."

"Have you any doubt, Sir Louis, as to the money being secure?"

"Yes, I have. It isn't so easy to have a hundred thousand pounds secured. The squire is a poor
man, and I don't choose to allow a poor man to owe me such a sum as that. Besides, I mean to
invest it in land. I tell you fairly, therefore, I shall foreclose."

Mr Gazebee, using all the perspicuity which his professional education had left to him, tried
to make Sir Louis understand that he had no power to do anything of the kind.

"No power! Mr Gresham shall see whether I have no power. When a man has a hundred thousand
pounds owing to him he ought to have some power; and, as I take it, he has. But we will see.
Perhaps you know Finnie, do you?"

Mr Gazebee, with a good deal of scorn in his face, said that he had not that pleasure. Mr Finnie
was not in his line.

"Well, you will know him then, and you'll find he's sharp enough; that is, unless I have some
offer made to me that I may choose to accept." Mr Gazebee declared that he was not instructed
to make any offer, and so he took his leave.

On that afternoon, Sir Louis went off to Boxall Hill, transferring the miserable task of superintending
his self-destruction from the shoulders of the doctor to those of his mother. Of Lady Scatcherd,
the baronet took no account in his proposed sojourn in the country, nor did he take much of
the doctor in leaving Greshamsbury. He again wrapped himself in his furs, and, with tottering
steps, climbed up into the barouche which was to carry him away.

"Is my man up behind?" he said to Janet, while the doctor was standing at the little front
garden-gate, making his adieux.

"No, sir, he's not up yet," said Janet, respectfully.

"Then send him out, will you? I can't lose my time waiting here all day."

"I shall come over to Boxall Hill and see you," said the doctor, whose heart softened towards
the man, in spite of his brutality, as the hour of his departure came.

"I shall be happy to see you if you like to come, of course; that is, in the way of visiting,
and that sort of thing. As for doctoring, if I want any I shall send for Fillgrave." Such were
his last words as the carriage, with a rush, went off from the door.

The doctor, as he re-entered the house, could not avoid smiling, for he thought of Dr Fillgrave's
last patient at Boxall Hill. "It's a question to me," said he to himself, "whether Dr Fillgrave
will ever be induced to make another visit to that house, even with the object of rescuing
a baronet out of my hands."

"He's gone; isn't he, uncle?" said Mary, coming out of her room.

"Yes, my dear; he's gone, poor fellow."

"He may be a poor fellow, uncle; but he's a very disagreeable inmate in a house. I have not
had any dinner these two days."

"And I haven't had what can be called a cup of tea since he's been in the house. But I'll make
up for that to-night."

CHAPTER XXXVIII

De Courcy Precepts and de Courcy Practice

There is a mode of novel-writing which used to be much in vogue, but which has now gone out
of fashion. It is, nevertheless, one which is very expressive when in good hands, and which
enables the author to tell his story, or some portion of his story, with more natural trust
than any other, I mean that of familiar letters. I trust I shall be excused if I attempt it
as regards this one chapter; though, it may be, that I shall break down and fall into the commonplace
narrative, even before the one chapter be completed. The correspondents are the Lady Amelia
de Courcy and Miss Gresham. I, of course, give precedence to the higher rank, but the first
epistle originated with the latter-named young lady. Let me hope that they will explain themselves.

   Miss Gresham to Lady Amelia de Courcy

   Greshamsbury House, June, 185--.

   MY DEAREST AMELIA,

   I wish to consult you on a subject which, as you will
   perceive, is of a most momentous nature. You know how much
   reliance I place in your judgement and knowledge of what
   is proper, and, therefore, I write to you before speaking
   to any other living person on the subject: not even to
   mamma; for, although her judgement is good too, she has so
   many cares and troubles, that it is natural that it should
   be a little warped when the interests of her children are
   concerned. Now that it is all over, I feel that it may
   possibly have been so in the case of Mr Moffat.

   You are aware that Mr Mortimer Gazebee is now staying
   here, and that he has been here for nearly two months. He
   is engaged in managing poor papa's affairs, and mamma, who
   likes him very much, says that he is a most excellent man
   of business. Of course, you know that he is the junior
   partner in the very old firm of Gumption, Gazebee, &
   Gazebee, who, I understand, do not undertake any business
   at all, except what comes to them from peers, or commoners
   of the very highest class.

   I soon perceived, dearest Amelia, that Mr Gazebee paid me
   more than ordinary attention, and I immediately became
   very guarded in my manner. I certainly liked Mr Gazebee
   from the first. His manners are quite excellent, his
   conduct to mamma is charming, and, as regards myself, I
   must say that there has been nothing in his behaviour of
   which even you could complain. He has never attempted
   the slightest familiarity, and I will do him the justice
   to say, that, though he has been very attentive, he has
   also been very respectful.

   I must confess that, for the last three weeks, I have
   thought that he meant something. I might, perhaps, have
   done more to repel him; or I might have consulted you
   earlier as to the propriety of keeping altogether out of
   his way. But you know, Amelia, how often these things lead
   to nothing, and though I thought all along that Mr Gazebee
   was in earnest, I hardly liked to say anything about it
   even to you till I was quite certain. If you had advised
   me, you know, to accept his offer, and if, after that, he
   had never made it, I should have felt so foolish.

   But now he has made it. He came to me yesterday just
   before dinner, in the little drawing-room, and told me, in
   the most delicate manner, in words that even you could not
   have but approved, that his highest ambition was to be
   thought worthy of my regard, and that he felt for me the
   warmest love, and the most profound admiration, and the
   deepest respect. You may say, Amelia, that he is only an
   attorney, and I believe that he is an attorney; but I am
   sure you would have esteemed him had you heard the very
   delicate way in which he expressed his sentiments.

   Something had given me a presentiment of what he was going
   to do when I saw him come into the room, so that I was
   on my guard. I tried very hard to show no emotion; but I
   suppose I was a little flurried, as I once detected myself
   calling him Mr Mortimer: his name, you know, is Mortimer
   Gazebee. I ought not to have done so, certainly; but it
   was not so bad as if I had called him Mortimer without
   the Mr, was it? I don't think there could possibly be a
   prettier Christian name than Mortimer. Well, Amelia, I
   allowed him to express himself without interruption. He
   once attempted to take my hand; but even this was done
   without any assumption of familiarity; and when he saw
   that I would not permit it, he drew back, and fixed his
   eyes on the ground as though he were ashamed even of that.

   Of course, I had to give him an answer; and though I had
   expected that something of this sort would take place,
   I had not made up my mind on the subject. I would not,
   certainly, under any circumstances, accept him without
   consulting you. If I really disliked him, of course there
   would be no doubt; but I can't say, dearest Amelia, that
   I do absolutely dislike him; and I really think that we
   would make each other very happy, if the marriage were
   suitable as regarded both our positions.

   I collected myself as well as I could, and I really do
   think that you would have said that I did not behave
   badly, though the position was rather trying. I told him
   that, of course, I was flattered by his sentiments, though
   much surprised at hearing them; that since I knew him, I
   had esteemed and valued him as an acquaintance, but that,
   looking on him as a man of business, I had never expected
   anything more. I then endeavoured to explain to him, that
   I was not perhaps privileged, as some other girls might
   be, to indulge my own feelings altogether: perhaps that
   was saying too much, and might make him think that I was
   in love with him; but, from the way I said it, I don't
   think he would, for I was very much guarded in my manner,
   and very collected; and then I told him, that in any
   proposal of marriage that might be made to me, it would
   be my duty to consult my family as much, if not more than
   myself.

   He said, of course; and asked whether he might speak to
   papa. I tried to make him understand, that in talking of
   my family, I did not exactly mean papa, or even mamma.
   Of course I was thinking of what was due to the name of
   Gresham. I know very well what papa would say. He would
   give his consent in half a minute; he is so broken-hearted
   by these debts. And, to tell you the truth, Amelia, I
   think mamma would too. He did not seem quite to comprehend
   what I meant; but he did say that he knew it was a high
   ambition to marry into the family of the Greshams. I
   am sure you would confess that he has the most proper
   feelings; and as for expressing them no man could do it
   better.

   He owned that it was ambition to ally himself with a
   family above his own rank in life, and that he looked to
   doing so as a means of advancing himself. Now this was at
   any rate honest. That was one of his motives, he said;
   though, of course, not his first: and then he declared
   how truly attached he was to me. In answer to this, I
   remarked, that he had known me only a very short time.
   This, perhaps, was giving him too much encouragement; but,
   at that moment, I hardly knew what to say, for I did not
   wish to hurt his feelings. He then spoke of his income.
   He has fifteen hundred a year from the business, and that
   will be greatly increased when his father leaves it; and
   his father is much older then Mr Gumption, though he is
   only the second partner. Mortimer Gazebee will be the
   senior partner himself before very long; and perhaps that
   does alter his position a little.

   He has a very nice place down somewhere in Surrey; I have
   heard mamma say it is quite a gentleman's place. It is let
   now; but he will live there when he is married. And he
   has property of his own besides which he can settle. So,
   you see, he is quite as well off as Mr Oriel; better,
   indeed; and if a man is in a profession, I believe it is
   considered that it does not much matter what. Of course, a
   clergyman can be a bishop; but then, I think I have heard
   that one attorney did once become Lord Chancellor. I
   should have my carriage, you know; I remember his saying
   that, especially, though I cannot recollect how he brought
   it in.

   I told him, at last, that I was so much taken by surprise
   that I could not give him an answer then. He was going
   up to London, he said, on the next day, and might he
   be permitted to address me on the same subject when he
   returned? I could not refuse him, you know; and so now I
   have taken the opportunity of his absence to write to you
   for your advice. You understand the world so very well,
   and know so exactly what one ought to do in such a strange
   position!

   I hope I have made it intelligible, at least, as to what
   I have written about. I have said nothing as to my own
   feelings, because I wish you to think on the matter
   without consulting them. If it would be derogatory to
   accept Mr Gazebee, I certainly would not do so because I
   happen to like him. If we were to act in that way, what
   would the world come to, Amelia? Perhaps my ideas may be
   overstrained; if so, you will tell me.

   When Mr Oriel proposed for Beatrice, nobody seemed to make
   any objection. It all seemed to go as a matter of course.
   She says that his family is excellent; but as far as I can
   learn, his grandfather was a general in India, and came
   home very rich. Mr Gazebee's grandfather was a member of
   the firm, and so, I believe, was his great-grandfather.
   Don't you think this ought to count for something?
   Besides, they have no business except with the most
   aristocratic persons, such as uncle de Courcy, and the
   Marquis of Kensington Gore, and that sort. I mention the
   marquis, because Mr Mortimer Gazebee is there now. And I
   know that one of the Gumptions was once in Parliament; and
   I don't think that any of the Oriels ever were. The name
   of attorney is certainly very bad, is it not, Amelia? but
   they certainly do not seem to be all the same, and I do
   think that this ought to make a difference. To hear Mr
   Mortimer Gazebee talk of some attorney at Barchester, you
   would say that there is quite as much difference between
   them as between a bishop and a curate. And so I think
   there is.

   I don't wish at all to speak of my own feelings; but if he
   were not an attorney, he is, I think, the sort of man I
   should like. He is very nice in every way, and if you were
   not told, I don't think you'd know he was an attorney.
   But, dear Amelia, I will be guided by you altogether. He
   is certainly much nicer than Mr Moffat, and has a great
   deal more to say for himself. Of course, Mr Moffat having
   been in Parliament, and having been taken up by uncle
   de Courcy, was in a different sphere; but I really felt
   almost relieved when he behaved in that way. With Mortimer
   Gazebee, I think it would be different.

   I shall wait so impatiently for your answer, so do pray
   write at once. I hear some people say that these sort of
   things are not so much thought of now as they were once,
   and that all manner of marriages are considered to be
   comme il faut. I do not want, you know, to make myself
   foolish by being too particular. Perhaps all these changes
   are bad, and I rather think they are; but if the world
   changes, one must change too; one can't go against the
   world.

   So do write and tell me what you think. Do not suppose
   that I dislike the man, for I really cannot say that I do.
   But I would not for anything make an alliance for which
   any one bearing the name of de Courcy would have to blush.

   Always, dearest Amelia,

   Your most affectionate cousin,

   AUGUSTA GRESHAM.

   P.S.--I fear Frank is going to be very foolish with Mary
   Thorne. You know it is absolutely important that Frank
   should marry money.

   It strikes me as quite possible that Mortimer Gazebee may
   be in Parliament some of these days. He is just the man
   for it.

Poor Augusta prayed very hard for her husband; but she prayed to a bosom that on this subject
was as hard as a flint, and she prayed in vain. Augusta Gresham was twenty-two, Lady Amelia
de Courcy was thirty-four; was it likely that Lady Amelia would permit Augusta to marry, the
issue having thus been left in her hands? Why should Augusta derogate from her position by
marrying beneath herself, seeing that Lady Amelia had spent so many more years in the world
without having found it necessary to do so? Augusta's letter was written on two sheets of note-paper,
crossed all over; and Lady Amelia's answer was almost equally formidable.

   Lady Amelia de Courcy to Miss Augusta Gresham

   Courcy Castle, June, 185--.

   MY DEAR AUGUSTA,

   I received your letter yesterday morning, but I have put
   off answering it till this evening, as I have wished to
   give it very mature consideration. The question is one
   which concerns, not only your character, but happiness
   for life, and nothing less than very mature consideration
   would justify me in giving a decided opinion on the
   subject.

   In the first place, I may tell you, that I have not a word
   to say against Mr Mortimer Gazebee. [When Augusta had read
   as far as this, her heart sank within her; the rest was
   all leather and prunella; she saw at once that the fiat
   had gone against her, and that her wish to become Mrs
   Mortimer Gazebee was not to be indulged.] I have known
   him for a long time, and I believe him to be a very
   respectable person, and I have no doubt a good man of
   business. The firm of Messrs Gumption & Gazebee stands
   probably quite among the first attorneys in London, and I
   know that papa has a very high opinion of them.

   All of these would be excellent arguments to use in favour
   of Mr Gazebee as a suitor, had his proposals been made to
   any one in his own rank of life. But you, in considering
   the matter, should, I think, look on it in a very
   different light. The very fact that you pronounce him to
   be so much superior to other attorneys, shows in how very
   low esteem you hold the profession in general. It shows
   also, dear Augusta, how well aware you are that they are a
   class of people among whom you should not seek a partner
   for life.

   My opinion is, that you should make Mr Gazebee
   understand--very courteously, of course--that you cannot
   accept his hand. You observe that he himself confesses,
   that in marrying you he would seek a wife in a rank above
   his own. Is it not, therefore, clear, that in marrying
   him, you would descend to a rank below your own?

   I shall be very sorry if this grieves you; but still
   it will be better that you should bear the grief of
   overcoming a temporary fancy, than take a step which may
   so probably make you unhappy; and which some of your
   friends would certainly regard as disgraceful.

   It is not permitted to us, my dear Augusta, to think of
   ourselves in such matters. As you truly say, if we were
   to act in that way, what would the world come to? It has
   been God's pleasure that we should be born with high blood
   in our veins. This is a great boon which we both value,
   but the boon has its responsibilities as well as its
   privileges. It is established by law, that the royal
   family shall not intermarry with subjects. In our case
   there is no law, but the necessity is not the less felt;
   we should not intermarry with those who are probably
   of a lower rank. Mr Mortimer Gazebee is, after all,
   only an attorney; and, although you speak of his
   great-grandfather, he is a man of no blood whatsoever. You
   must acknowledge that such an admixture should be looked
   on by a de Courcy, or even by a Gresham, as a pollution.
   [Here Augusta got very red, and she felt almost inclined
   to be angry with her cousin.] Beatrice's marriage with Mr
   Oriel is different; though, remember, I am by no means
   defending that; it may be good or bad, and I have had no
   opportunity of inquiring respecting Mr Oriel's family.
   Beatrice, moreover, has never appeared to me to feel
   what was due to herself in such matters; but, as I
   said, her marriage with Mr Oriel is very different.
   Clergymen--particularly the rectors and vicars of country
   parishes--do become privileged above other professional
   men. I could explain why, but it would be too long in a
   letter.

   Your feelings on the subject altogether do you great
   credit. I have no doubt that Mr Gresham, if asked, would
   accede to the match; but that is just the reason why he
   should not be asked. It would not be right that I should
   say anything against your father to you; but it is
   impossible for any of us not to see that all through life
   he has thrown away every advantage, and sacrificed his
   family. Why is he now in debt, as you say? Why is he not
   holding the family seat in Parliament? Even though you are
   his daughter, you cannot but feel that you would not do
   right to consult him on such a subject.

   As to dear aunt, I feel sure, that were she in good
   health, and left to exercise her own judgement, she would
   not wish to see you married to the agent for the family
   estate. For, dear Augusta, that is the real truth. Mr
   Gazebee often comes here in the way of business; and
   though papa always receives him as a gentleman--that is,
   he dines at table and all that--he is not on the same
   footing in the house as the ordinary guests and friends of
   the family. How would you like to be received at Courcy
   Castle in the same way?

   You will say, perhaps, that you would still be papa's
   niece; so you would. But you know how strict in such
   matters papa is, and you must remember, that the wife
   always follows the rank of the husband. Papa is accustomed
   to the strict etiquette of a court, and I am sure that no
   consideration would induce him to receive the estate-agent
   in the light of a nephew. Indeed, were you to marry Mr
   Gazebee, the house to which he belongs would, I imagine,
   have to give up the management of this property.

   Even were Mr Gazebee in Parliament--and I do not see how
   it is probable that he should get there--it would not make
   any difference. You must remember, dearest, that I never
   was an advocate for the Moffat match. I acquiesced in it,
   because mamma did so. If I could have had my own way,
   I would adhere to all our old prescriptive principles.
   Neither money nor position can atone to me for low birth.
   But the world, alas! is retrograding; and, according to
   the new-fangled doctrines of the day, a lady of blood is
   not disgraced by allying herself to a man of wealth, and
   what may be called quasi-aristocratic position. I wish it
   were otherwise; but so it is. And, therefore, the match
   with Mr Moffat was not disgraceful, though it could not be
   regarded as altogether satisfactory.

   But with Mr Gazebee the matter would be altogether
   different. He is a man earning his bread; honestly, I
   dare say, but in a humble position. You say he is very
   respectable: I do not doubt it; and so is Mr Scraggs,
   the butcher at Courcy. You see, Augusta, to what such
   arguments reduce you.

   I dare say he may be nicer than Mr Moffat, in one way.
   That is, he may have more small-talk at his command, and
   be more clever in all those little pursuits and amusements
   which are valued by ordinary young ladies. But my
   opinion is, that neither I nor you would be justified in
   sacrificing ourselves for such amusements. We have high
   duties before us. It may be that the performance of those
   duties will prohibit us from taking a part in the ordinary
   arena of the feminine world. It is natural that girls
   should wish to marry; and, therefore, those who are weak,
   take the first that come. Those who have more judgement,
   make some sort of selection. But the strongest-minded are,
   perhaps, those who are able to forgo themselves and their
   own fancies, and to refrain from any alliance that does
   not tend to the maintenance of high principles. Of course,
   I speak of those who have blood in their veins. You and I
   need not dilate as to the conduct of others.

   I hope what I have said will convince you. Indeed, I know
   that it only requires that you and I should have a little
   cousinly talk on this matter to be quite in accord. You
   must now remain at Greshamsbury till Mr Gazebee shall
   return. Immediately that he does so, seek an interview
   with him; do not wait till he asks for it; then tell him,
   that when he addressed you, the matter had taken you so
   much by surprise, that you were not at the moment able to
   answer him with that decision that the subject demanded.
   Tell him, that you are flattered--in saying this, however,
   you must keep a collected countenance, and be very cold
   in your manner--but that family reasons would forbid you
   to avail yourself of his offer, even did no other cause
   prevent it.

   And then, dear Augusta, come to us here. I know you
   will be a little down-hearted after going through this
   struggle; but I will endeavour to inspirit you. When we
   are both together, you will feel more sensibly the value
   of that high position which you will preserve by rejecting
   Mr Gazebee, and will regret less acutely whatever you may
   lose.

   Your very affectionate cousin,

   AMELIA DE COURCY.

   P.S.--I am greatly grieved about Frank; but I have long
   feared that he would do some very silly thing. I have
   heard lately that Miss Mary Thorne is not even the
   legitimate niece of your Dr Thorne, but is the daughter
   of some poor creature who was seduced by the doctor, in
   Barchester. I do not know how true this may be, but I
   think your brother should be put on his guard: it might do
   good.

Poor Augusta! She was in truth to be pitied, for her efforts were made with the intention of
doing right according to her lights. For Mr Moffat she had never cared a straw; and when, therefore,
she lost the piece of gilding for which she had been instructed by her mother to sell herself,
it was impossible to pity her. But Mr Gazebee she would have loved with that sort of love which
it was in her power to bestow. With him she would have been happy, respectable, and contented.

She had written her letter with great care. When the offer was made to her, she could not bring
herself to throw Lady Amelia to the winds and marry the man, as it were, out of her own head.
Lady Amelia had been the tyrant of her life, and so she strove hard to obtain her tyrant's
permission. She used all her little cunning in showing that, after all, Mr Gazebee was not
so very plebeian. All her little cunning was utterly worthless. Lady Amelia's mind was too
strong to be caught with such chaff. Augusta could not serve God and Mammon. She must either
be true to the god of her cousin's idolatry, and remain single, or serve the Mammon of her
own inclinations, and marry Mr Gazebee.

When refolding her cousin's letter, after the first perusal, she did for a moment think of
rebellion. Could she not be happy at the nice place in Surrey, having, as she would have, a
carriage, even though all the de Courcys should drop her? It had been put to her that she would
not like to be received at Courcy Castle with the scant civility which would be considered
due to a Mrs Mortimer Gazebee; but what if she could put up without being received at Courcy
Castle at all? Such ideas did float through her mind, dimly.

But her courage failed her. It is so hard to throw off a tyrant; so much easier to yield, when
we have been in the habit of yielding. This third letter, therefore, was written; and it is
the end of the correspondence.

   Miss Augusta Gresham to Lady Amelia de Courcy

   Greshamsbury House, July, 185--.

   MY DEAREST AMELIA,

   I did not answer your letter before, because I thought it
   better to delay doing so till Mr Gazebee had been here.
   He came the day before yesterday, and yesterday I did,
   as nearly as possible, what you advised. Perhaps, on
   the whole, it will be better. As you say, rank has its
   responsibilities as well as its privileges.

   I don't quite understand what you mean about clergymen,
   but we can talk that over when we meet. Indeed, it seems
   to me that if one is to be particular about family--and
   I am sure I think we ought--one ought to be so without
   exception. If Mr Oriel be a parvenu, Beatrice's
   children won't be well born merely because their father
   was a clergyman, even though he is a rector. Since
   my former letter, I have heard that Mr Gazebee's
   great-great-great-grandfather established the firm; and
   there are many people who were nobodies then who are
   thought to have good blood in their veins now.

   But I do not say this because I differ from you. I agree
   with you so fully, that I at once made up my mind to
   reject the man; and, consequently, I have done so.

   When I told him I could not accept him from family
   considerations, he asked me whether I had spoken to papa.
   I told him, no; and that it would be no good, as I had
   made up my own mind. I don't think he quite understood me;
   but it did not perhaps much matter. You told me to be very
   cold, and I think that perhaps he thought me less gracious
   than before. Indeed, I fear that when he first spoke,
   I may seem to have given him too much encouragement.
   However, it is all over now; quite over! [As Augusta wrote
   this, she barely managed to save the paper beneath her
   hand from being moistened with the tear which escaped from
   her eye.]

   I do not mind confessing now, [she continued] at any rate
   to you, that I did like Mr Gazebee a little. I think his
   temper and disposition would have suited me. But I am
   quite satisfied that I have done right. He tried very hard
   to make me change my mind. That is, he said a great many
   things as to whether I would not put off my decision. But
   I was quite firm. I must say that he behaved very well,
   and that I really do think he liked me honestly and truly;
   but, of course, I could not sacrifice family
   considerations on that account.

   Yes, rank has its responsibilities as well as its
   privileges. I will remember that. It is necessary to do
   so, as otherwise one would be without consolation for what
   one has to suffer. For I find that one has to suffer,
   Amelia. I know papa would have advised me to marry this
   man; and so, I dare say, mamma would, and Frank, and
   Beatrice, if they knew that I liked him. It would not be
   so bad if we all thought alike about it; but it is hard to
   have the responsibilities all on one's own shoulder; is it
   not?

   But I will go over to you, and you will comfort me. I
   always feel stronger on this subject at Courcy than at
   Greshamsbury. We will have a long talk about it, and then
   I shall be happy again. I purpose going on next Friday, if
   that will suit you and dear aunt. I have told mamma that
   you all wanted me, and she made no objection. Do write at
   once, dearest Amelia, for to hear from you now will be my
   only comfort.

   Yours, ever most affectionately and obliged,

   AUGUSTA GRESHAM.

   P.S.--I told mamma what you said about Mary Thorne, and
   she said, "Yes; I suppose all the world knows it now; and
   if all the world did know it, it makes no difference to
   Frank." She seemed very angry; so you see it was true.

Though, by so doing, we shall somewhat anticipate the end of our story, it may be desirable
that the full tale of Mr Gazebee's loves should be told here. When Mary is breaking her heart
on her death-bed in the last chapter, or otherwise accomplishing her destiny, we shall hardly
find a fit opportunity of saying much about Mr Gazebee and his aristocratic bride.

For he did succeed at last in obtaining a bride in whose veins ran the noble ichor of de Courcy
blood, in spite of the high doctrine preached so eloquently by the Lady Amelia. As Augusta
had truly said, he had failed to understand her. He was led to think, by her manner of receiving
his first proposal--and justly so, enough--that she liked him, and would accept him; and he
was, therefore, rather perplexed by his second interview. He tried again and again, and begged
permission to mention the matter to Mr Gresham; but Augusta was very firm, and he at last retired
in disgust. Augusta went to Courcy Castle, and received from her cousin that consolation and
re-strengthening which she so much required.

Four years afterwards--long after the fate of Mary Thorne had fallen, like a thunderbolt, on
the inhabitants of Greshamsbury; when Beatrice was preparing for her second baby, and each
of the twins had her accepted lover--Mr Mortimer Gazebee went down to Courcy Castle; of course,
on matters of business. No doubt he dined at the table, and all that. We have the word of Lady
Amelia, that the earl, with his usual good-nature, allowed him such privileges. Let us hope
that he never encroached on them.

But on this occasion, Mr Gazebee stayed a long time at the castle, and singular rumours as
to the cause of his prolonged visit became current in the little town. No female scion of the
present family of Courcy had, as yet, found a mate. We may imagine that eagles find it difficult
to pair when they become scarce in their localities; and we all know how hard it has sometimes
been to get comme il faut husbands when there has been any number of Protestant princesses on hand.

Some such difficulty had, doubtless, brought it about that the countess was still surrounded
by her full bevy of maidens. Rank has its responsibilities as well as its privileges, and these
young ladies' responsibilities seemed to have consisted in rejecting any suitor who may have
hitherto kneeled to them. But now it was told through Courcy, that one suitor had kneeled,
and not in vain; from Courcy the rumour flew to Barchester, and thence came down to Greshamsbury,
startling the inhabitants, and making one poor heart throb with a violence that would have
been piteous had it been known. The suitor, so named, was Mr Mortimer Gazebee.

Yes; Mr Mortimer Gazebee had now awarded to him many other privileges than those of dining
at the table, and all that. He rode with the young ladies in the park, and they all talked
to him very familiarly before company; all except the Lady Amelia. The countess even called
him Mortimer, and treated him quite as one of the family.

At last came a letter from the countess to her dear sister Arabella. It should be given at
length, but that I fear to introduce another epistle. It is such an easy mode of writing, and
facility is always dangerous. In this letter it was announced with much preliminary ambiguity,
that Mortimer Gazebee--who had been found to be a treasure in every way; quite a paragon of
men--was about to be taken into the de Courcy bosom as a child of that house. On that day fortnight,
he was destined to lead to the altar--the Lady Amelia.

The countess then went on to say, that dear Amelia did not write herself, being so much engaged
by her coming duties--the responsibilities of which she doubtless fully realised, as well as
the privileges; but she had begged her mother to request that the twins should come and act
as bridesmaids on the occasion. Dear Augusta, she knew, was too much occupied in the coming
event in Mr Oriel's family to be able to attend.

Mr Mortimer Gazebee was taken into the de Courcy family, and did lead the Lady Amelia to the
altar; and the Gresham twins did go there and act as bridesmaids. And, which is much more to
say for human nature, Augusta did forgive her cousin, and, after a certain interval, went on
a visit to that nice place in Surrey which she had once hoped would be her own home. It would
have been a very nice place, Augusta thought, had not Lady Amelia Gazebee been so very economical.

We must presume that there was some explanation between them. If so, Augusta yielded to it,
and confessed it to be satisfactory. She had always yielded to her cousin, and loved her with
that sort of love which is begotten between fear and respect. Anything was better than quarrelling
with her cousin Amelia.

And Mr Mortimer Gazebee did not altogether make a bad bargain. He never received a shilling
of dowry, but that he had not expected. Nor did he want it. His troubles arose from the overstrained
economy of his noble wife. She would have it, that as she had married a poor man--Mr Gazebee,
however, was not a poor man--it behoved her to manage her house with great care. Such a match
as that she had made--this she told in confidence to Augusta--had its responsibilities as well
as its privileges.

But, on the whole, Mr Gazebee did not repent his bargain; when he asked his friends to dine,
he could tell them that Lady Amelia would be very glad to see them; his marriage gave him some
éclat at his club, and some additional weight in the firm to which he belonged; he gets his
share of the Courcy shooting, and is asked about to Greshamsbury and other Barsetshire houses,
not only "to dine at table and all that," but to take his part in whatever delights country
society there has to offer. He lives with the great hope that his noble father-in-law may some
day be able to bring him into Parliament.

CHAPTER XXXIX

What the World Says about Blood

"Beatrice," said Frank, rushing suddenly into his sister's room, "I want you to do me one especial
favour." This was three or four days after Frank had seen Mary Thorne. Since that time he had
spoken to none of his family on the subject; but he was only postponing from day to day the
task of telling his father. He had now completed his round of visits to the kennel, master
huntsman, and stables of the county hunt, and was at liberty to attend to his own affairs.
So he had decided on speaking to the squire that very day; but he first made his request to
his sister.

"I want you to do me one especial favour." The day for Beatrice's marriage had now been fixed,
and it was not to be very distant. Mr Oriel had urged that their honeymoon trip would lose
half its delights if they did not take advantage of the fine weather; and Beatrice had nothing
to allege in answer. The day had just been fixed, and when Frank ran into her room with his
special request, she was not in a humour to refuse him anything.

"If you wish me to be at your wedding, you must do it," said he.

"Wish you to be there! You must be there, of course. Oh, Frank! what do you mean? I'll do anything
you ask; if it is not to go to the moon, or anything of that sort."

Frank was too much in earnest to joke. "You must have Mary for one of your bridesmaids," he
said. "Now, mind; there may be some difficulty, but you must insist on it. I know what has
been going on; but it is not to be borne that she should be excluded on such a day as that.
You that have been like sisters all your lives till a year ago!"

"But, Frank--"

"Now, Beatrice, don't have any buts; say that you will do it, and it will be done: I am sure
Oriel will approve, and so will my father."

"But, Frank, you won't hear me."

"Not if you make objections; I have set my heart on your doing it."

"But I had set my heart on the same thing."

"Well?"

"And I went to Mary on purpose; and told her just as you tell me now, that she must come. I
meant to make mamma understand that I could not be happy unless it were so; but Mary positively
refused."

"Refused! What did she say?"

"I could not tell you what she said; indeed, it would not be right if I could; but she positively
declined. She seemed to feel, that after all that had happened, she never could come to Greshamsbury
again."

"Fiddlestick!"

"But, Frank, those are her feelings; and, to tell the truth, I could not combat them. I know
she is not happy; but time will cure that. And, to tell you the truth, Frank--"

"It was before I came back that you asked her, was it not?"

"Yes; just the day before you came, I think."

"Well, it's all altered now. I have seen her since that."

"Have you Frank?"

"What do you take me for? Of course, I have. The very first day I went to her. And now, Beatrice,
you may believe me or not, as you like; but if I ever marry, I shall marry Mary Thorne; and
if ever she marries, I think I may say, she will marry me. At any rate, I have her promise.
And now, you cannot be surprised that I should wish her to be at your wedding; or that I should
declare, that if she is absent, I will be absent. I don't want any secrets, and you may tell
my mother if you like it--and all the de Courcys too, for anything I care."

Frank had ever been used to command his sisters: and they, especially Beatrice, had ever been
used to obey. On this occasion, she was well inclined to do so, if she only knew how. She again
remembered how Mary had once sworn to be at her wedding, to be near her, and to touch her--even
though all the blood of the de Courcys should be crowded before the altar railings.

"I should be so happy that she should be there; but what am I to do, Frank, if she refuses?
I have asked her, and she has refused."

"Go to her again; you need not have any scruples with her. Do not I tell you she will be your
sister? Not come here again to Greshamsbury! Why, I tell you that she will be living here while
you are living there at the parsonage, for years and years to come."

Beatrice promised that she would go to Mary again, and that she would endeavour to talk her
mother over if Mary would consent to come. But she could not yet make herself believe that
Mary Thorne would ever be mistress of Greshamsbury. It was so indispensably necessary that
Frank should marry money! Besides, what were those horrid rumours which were now becoming rife
as to Mary's birth; rumours more horrid than any which had yet been heard?

Augusta had said hardly more than the truth when she spoke of her father being broken-hearted
by his debts. His troubles were becoming almost too many for him; and Mr Gazebee, though no
doubt he was an excellent man of business, did not seem to lessen them. Mr Gazebee, indeed,
was continually pointing out how much he owed, and in what a quagmire of difficulties he had
entangled himself. Now, to do Mr Yates Umbleby justice, he had never made himself disagreeable
in this manner.

Mr Gazebee had been doubtless right, when he declared that Sir Louis Scatcherd had not himself
the power to take any steps hostile to the squire; but Sir Louis had also been right, when
he boasted that, in spite of his father's will, he could cause others to move in the matter.
Others did move, and were moving, and it began to be understood that a moiety, at least, of
the remaining Greshamsbury property must be sold. Even this, however, would by no means leave
the squire in undisturbed possession of the other moiety. And thus, Mr Gresham was nearly broken-hearted.

Frank had now been at home a week, and his father had not as yet spoken to him about the family
troubles; nor had a word as yet been said between them as to Mary Thorne. It had been agreed
that Frank should go away for twelve months, in order that he might forget her. He had been
away the twelvemonth, and had now returned, not having forgotten her.

It generally happens, that in every household, one subject of importance occupies it at a time.
The subject of importance now mostly thought of in the Greshamsbury household, was the marriage
of Beatrice. Lady Arabella had to supply the trousseau for her daughter; the squire had to
supply the money for the trousseau; Mr Gazebee had the task of obtaining the money for the
squire. While this was going on, Mr Gresham was not anxious to talk to his son, either about
his own debts or his son's love. There would be time for these things when the marriage-feast
should be over.

So thought the father, but the matter was precipitated by Frank. He also had put off the declaration
which he had to make, partly from a wish to spare the squire, but partly also with a view to
spare himself. We have all some of that cowardice which induces us to postpone an inevitably
evil day. At this time the discussions as to Beatrice's wedding were frequent in the house,
and at one of them Frank had heard his mother repeat the names of the proposed bridesmaids.
Mary's name was not among them, and hence had arisen his attack on his sister.

Lady Arabella had had her reason for naming the list before her son; but she overshot her mark.
She wished to show him how totally Mary was forgotten at Greshamsbury; but she only inspired
him with a resolve that she should not be forgotten. He accordingly went to his sister; and
then, the subject being full on his mind, he resolved at once to discuss it with his father.

"Sir, are you at leisure for five minutes?" he said, entering the room in which the squire
was accustomed to sit majestically, to receive his tenants, scold his dependants, and in which,
in former happy days, he had always arranged the meets of the Barsetshire hunt.

Mr Gresham was quite at leisure: when was he not so? But had he been immersed in the deepest
business of which he was capable, he would gladly have put it aside at his son's instance.

"I don't like to have any secret from you, sir," said Frank; "nor, for the matter of that,
from anybody else"--the anybody else was intended to have reference to his mother--"and, therefore,
I would rather tell you at once what I have made up my mind to do."

Frank's address was very abrupt, and he felt it was so. He was rather red in the face, and
his manner was fluttered. He had quite made up his mind to break the whole affair to his father;
but he had hardly made up his mind as to the best mode of doing so.

"Good heavens, Frank! what do you mean? you are not going to do anything rash? What is it you
mean, Frank?"

"I don't think it is rash," said Frank.

"Sit down, my boy; sit down. What is it that you say you are going to do?"

"Nothing immediately, sir," said he, rather abashed; "but as I have made up my mind about Mary
Thorne,--quite made up my mind, I think it right to tell you."

"Oh, about Mary," said the squire, almost relieved.

And then Frank, in voluble language, which he hardly, however, had quite under his command,
told his father all that had passed between him and Mary. "You see, sir," said he, "that it
is fixed now, and cannot be altered. Nor must it be altered. You asked me to go away for twelve
months, and I have done so. It has made no difference, you see. As to our means of living,
I am quite willing to do anything that may be best and most prudent. I was thinking, sir, of
taking a farm somewhere near here, and living on that."

The squire sat quite silent for some moments after this communication had been made to him.
Frank's conduct, as a son, had been such that he could not find fault with it; and, in this
special matter of his love, how was it possible for him to find fault? He himself was almost
as fond of Mary as of a daughter; and, though he too would have been desirous that his son
should relieve the estate from its embarrassments by a rich marriage, he did not at all share
Lady Arabella's feelings on the subject. No Countess de Courcy had ever engraved it on the
tablets of his mind that the world would come to ruin if Frank did not marry money. Ruin there
was, and would be, but it had been brought about by no sin of Frank's.

"Do you remember about her birth, Frank?" he said, at last.

"Yes, sir; everything. She told me all she knew; and Dr Thorne finished the story."

"And what do you think of it?"

"It is a pity, and a misfortune. It might, perhaps, have been a reason why you or my mother
should not have had Mary in the house many years ago; but it cannot make any difference now."

Frank had not meant to lean so heavily on his father; but he did do so. The story had never
been told to Lady Arabella; was not even known to her now, positively, and on good authority.
But Mr Gresham had always known it. If Mary's birth was so great a stain upon her, why had
he brought her into his house among his children?

"It is a misfortune, Frank; a very great misfortune. It will not do for you and me to ignore
birth; too much of the value of one's position depends upon it."

"But what was Mr Moffat's birth?" said Frank, almost with scorn; "or what Miss Dunstable's?"
he would have added, had it not been that his father had not been concerned in that sin of
wedding him to the oil of Lebanon.

"True, Frank. But yet, what you would mean to say is not true. We must take the world as we
find it. Were you to marry a rich heiress, were her birth even as low as that of poor Mary--"

"Don't call her poor Mary, father; she is not poor. My wife will have a right to take rank
in the world, however she was born."

"Well,--poor in that way. But were she an heiress, the world would forgive her birth on account
of her wealth."

"The world is very complaisant, sir."

"You must take it as you find it, Frank. I only say that such is the fact. If Porlock were
to marry the daughter of a shoeblack, without a farthing, he would make a mésalliance; but
if the daughter of the shoeblack had half a million of money, nobody would dream of saying
so. I am stating no opinion of my own: I am only giving you the world's opinion."

"I don't give a straw for the world."

"That is a mistake, my boy; you do care for it, and would be very foolish if you did not. What
you mean is, that, on this particular point, you value your love more than the world's opinion."

"Well, yes, that is what I mean."

But the squire, though he had been very lucid in his definition, had not got no nearer to his
object; had not even yet ascertained what his own object was. This marriage would be ruinous
to Greshamsbury; and yet, what was he to say against it, seeing that the ruin had been his
fault, and not his son's?

"You could let me have a farm; could you not, sir? I was thinking of about six or seven hundred
acres. I suppose it could be managed somehow?"

"A farm?" said the father, abstractedly.

"Yes, sir. I must do something for my living. I should make less of a mess of that than of
anything else. Besides, it would take such a time to be an attorney, or a doctor, or anything
of that sort."

Do something for his living! And was the heir of Greshamsbury come to this--the heir and only
son? Whereas, he, the squire, had succeeded at an earlier age than Frank's to an unembarrassed
income of fourteen thousand pounds a year! The reflection was very hard to bear.

"Yes: I dare say you could have a farm:" and then he threw himself back in his chair, closing
his eyes. Then, after a while, rose again, and walked hurriedly about the room. "Frank," he
said, at last, standing opposite to his son, "I wonder what you think of me?"

"Think of you, sir?" ejaculated Frank.

"Yes; what do you think of me, for having thus ruined you. I wonder whether you hate me?"

Frank, jumping up from his chair, threw his arms round his father's neck. "Hate you, sir? How
can you speak so cruelly? You know well that I love you. And, father, do not trouble yourself
about the estate for my sake. I do not care for it; I can be just as happy without it. Let
the girls have what is left, and I will make my own way in the world, somehow. I will go to
Australia; yes, sir, that will be best. I and Mary will both go. Nobody will care about her
birth there. But, father, never say, never think, that I do not love you!"

The squire was too much moved to speak at once, so he sat down again, and covered his face
with his hands. Frank went on pacing the room, till, gradually, his first idea recovered possession
of his mind, and the remembrance of his father's grief faded away. "May I tell Mary," he said
at last, "that you consent to our marriage? It will make her so happy."

But the squire was not prepared to say this. He was pledged to his wife to do all that he could
to oppose it; and he himself thought, that if anything could consummate the family ruin, it
would be this marriage.

"I cannot say that, Frank; I cannot say that. What would you both live on? It would be madness."

"We would go to Australia," answered he, bitterly. "I have just said so."

"Oh, no, my boy; you cannot do that. You must not throw the old place up altogether. There
is no other one but you, Frank; and we have lived here now for so many, many years."

"But if we cannot live here any longer, father?"

"But for this scheme of yours, we might do so. I will give up everything to you, the management
of the estate, the park, all the land we have in hand, if you will give up this fatal scheme.
For, Frank, it is fatal. You are only twenty-three; why should you be in such a hurry to marry?"

"You married at twenty-one, sir."

Frank was again severe on his father, but unwittingly. "Yes, I did," said Mr Gresham; "and
see what has come of it! Had I waited ten years longer, how different would everything have
been! No, Frank, I cannot consent to such a marriage; nor will your mother."

"It is your consent I ask, sir; and I am asking for nothing but your consent."

"It would be sheer madness; madness for you both. My own Frank, my dear, dear boy, do not drive
me to distraction! Give it up for four years."

"Four years!"

"Yes; for four years. I ask it as a personal favour; as an obligation to myself, in order that
we may be saved from ruin; you, your mother, and sisters, your family name, and the old house.
I do not talk about myself; but were such a marriage to take place, I should be driven to despair."

Frank found it very hard to resist his father, who now had hold of his hand and arm, and was
thus half retaining him, and half embracing him. "Frank, say that you will forget this for
four years--say for three years."

But Frank would not say so. To postpone his marriage for four years, or for three, seemed to
him to be tantamount to giving up Mary altogether; and he would not acknowledge that any one
had the right to demand of him to do that.

"My word is pledged, sir," he said.

"Pledged! Pledged to whom?"

"To Miss Thorne."

"But I will see her, Frank;--and her uncle. She was always reasonable. I am sure she will not
wish to bring ruin on her old friends at Greshamsbury."

"Her old friends at Greshamsbury have done but little lately to deserve her consideration.
She has been treated shamefully. I know it has not been by you, sir; but I must say so. She
has already been treated shamefully; but I will not treat her falsely."

"Well, Frank, I can say no more to you. I have destroyed the estate which should have been
yours, and I have no right to expect you should regard what I say."

Frank was greatly distressed. He had not any feeling of animosity against his father with reference
to the property, and would have done anything to make the squire understand this, short of
giving up his engagement to Mary. His feeling rather was, that, as each had a case against
the other, they should cry quits; that he should forgive his father for his bad management,
on condition that he himself was to be forgiven with regard to his determined marriage. Not
that he put it exactly in that shape, even to himself; but could he have unravelled his own
thoughts, he would have found that such was the web on which they were based.

"Father, I do regard what you say; but you would not have me be false. Had you doubled the
property instead of lessening it, I could not regard what you say any more."

"I should be able to speak in a very different tone; I feel that, Frank."

"Do not feel it any more, sir; say what you wish, as you would have said it under any other
circumstances; and pray believe this, the idea never occurs to me, that I have ground of complaint
as regards the property; never. Whatever troubles we may have, do not let that trouble you."

Soon after this Frank left him. What more was there that could be said between them? They could
not be of one accord; but even yet it might not be necessary that they should quarrel. He went
out, and roamed by himself through the grounds, rather more in meditation than was his wont.

If he did marry, how was he to live? He talked of a profession; but had he meant to do as others
do, who make their way in professions, he should have thought of that a year or two ago!--or,
rather, have done more than think of it. He spoke also of a farm, but even that could not be
had in a moment; nor, if it could, would it produce a living. Where was his capital? Where
his skill? and he might have asked also, where the industry so necessary for such a trade?
He might set his father at defiance, and if Mary were equally headstrong with himself, he might
marry her. But, what then?

As he walked slowly about, cutting off the daisies with his stick, he met Mr Oriel, going up
to the house, as was now his custom, to dine there and spend the evening, close to Beatrice.

"How I envy you, Oriel!" he said. "What would I not give to have such a position in the world
as yours!"

"Thou shalt not covet a man's house, nor his wife," said Mr Oriel; "perhaps it ought to have
been added, nor his position."

"It wouldn't have made much difference. When a man is tempted, the Commandments, I believe,
do not go for much."

"Do they not, Frank? That's a dangerous doctrine; and one which, if you had my position, you
would hardly admit. But what makes you so much out of sorts? Your own position is generally
considered about the best which the world has to give."

"Is it? Then let me tell you that the world has very little to give. What can I do? Where can
I turn? Oriel, if there be an empty, lying humbug in the world, it is the theory of high birth
and pure blood which some of us endeavour to maintain. Blood, indeed! If my father had been
a baker, I should know by this time where to look for my livelihood. As it is, I am told of
nothing but my blood. Will my blood ever get me half a crown?"

And then the young democrat walked on again in solitude, leaving Mr Oriel in doubt as to the
exact line of argument which he had meant to inculcate.

CHAPTER XL

The Two Doctors Change Patients

Dr Fillgrave still continued his visits to Greshamsbury, for Lady Arabella had not yet mustered
the courage necessary for swallowing her pride and sending once more for Dr Thorne. Nothing
pleased Dr Fillgrave more than those visits.

He habitually attended grander families, and richer people; but then, he had attended them
habitually. Greshamsbury was a prize taken from the enemy; it was his rock of Gibraltar, of
which he thought much more than of any ordinary Hampshire or Wiltshire which had always been
within his own kingdom.

He was just starting one morning with his post-horses for Greshamsbury, when an impudent-looking
groom, with a crooked nose, trotted up to his door. For Joe still had a crooked nose, all the
doctor's care having been inefficacious to remedy the evil effects of Bridget's little tap
with the rolling-pin. Joe had no written credentials, for his master was hardly equal to writing,
and Lady Scatcherd had declined to put herself into further personal communication with Dr
Fillgrave; but he had effrontery enough to deliver any message.

"Be you Dr Fillgrave?" said Joe, with one finger just raised to his cocked hat.

"Yes," said Dr Fillgrave, with one foot on the step of the carriage, but pausing at the sight
of so well-turned-out a servant. "Yes; I am Dr Fillgrave."

"Then you be to go to Boxall Hill immediately; before anywhere else."

"Boxall Hill!" said the doctor, with a very angry frown.

"Yes; Boxall Hill: my master's place--my master is Sir Louis Scatcherd, baronet. You've heard
of him, I suppose?"

Dr Fillgrave had not his mind quite ready for such an occasion. So he withdrew his foot from
the carriage step, and rubbing his hands one over another, looked at his own hall door for
inspiration. A single glance at his face was sufficient to show that no ordinary thoughts were
being turned over within his breast.

"Well!" said Joe, thinking that his master's name had not altogether produced the magic effect
which he had expected; remembering, also, how submissive Greyson had always been, who, being
a London doctor, must be supposed to be a bigger man than this provincial fellow. "Do you know
as how my master is dying, very like, while you stand there?"

"What is your master's disease?" said the doctor, facing Joe, slowly, and still rubbing his
hands. "What ails him? What is the matter with him?"

"Oh; the matter with him? Well, to say it out at once then, he do take a drop too much at times,
and then he has the horrors--what is it they call it? delicious beam-ends, or something of
that sort."

"Oh, ah, yes; I know; and tell me, my man, who is attending him?"

"Attending him? why, I do, and his mother, that is, her ladyship."

"Yes; but what medical attendant: what doctor?"

"Why, there was Greyson, in London, and--"

"Greyson!" and the doctor looked as though a name so medicinally humble had never before struck
the tympanum of his ear.

"Yes; Greyson. And then, down at what's the name of the place, there was Thorne."

"Greshamsbury?"

"Yes; Greshamsbury. But he and Thorne didn't hit it off; and so since that he has had no one
but myself."

"I will be at Boxall Hill in the course of the morning," said Dr Fillgrave; "or, rather, you
may say, that I will be there at once: I will take it in my way." And having thus resolved,
he gave his orders that the post-horses should make such a detour as would enable him to visit
Boxall Hill on his road. "It is impossible," said he to himself, "that I should be twice treated
in such a manner in the same house."

He was not, however, altogether in a comfortable frame of mind as he was driven up to the hall
door. He could not but remember the smile of triumph with which his enemy had regarded him
in that hall; he could not but think how he had returned fee-less to Barchester, and how little
he had gained in the medical world by rejecting Lady Scatcherd's bank-note. However, he also
had had his triumphs since that. He had smiled scornfully at Dr Thorne when he had seen him
in the Greshamsbury street; and had been able to tell, at twenty houses through the county,
how Lady Arabella had at last been obliged to place herself in his hands. And he triumphed
again when he found himself really standing by Sir Louis Scatcherd's bedside. As for Lady Scatcherd,
she did not even show herself. She kept in her own little room, sending out Hannah to ask him
up the stairs; and she only just got a peep at him through the door as she heard the medical
creak of his shoes as he again descended.

We need say but little of his visit to Sir Louis. It mattered nothing now, whether it was Thorne,
or Greyson, or Fillgrave. And Dr Fillgrave knew that it mattered nothing: he had skill at least
for that--and heart enough also to feel that he would fain have been relieved from this task;
would fain have left this patient in the hands even of Dr Thorne.

The name which Joe had given to his master's illness was certainly not a false one. He did
find Sir Louis "in the horrors." If any father have a son whose besetting sin is a passion
for alcohol, let him take his child to the room of a drunkard when possessed by "the horrors."
Nothing will cure him if not that.

I will not disgust my reader by attempting to describe the poor wretch in his misery: the sunken,
but yet glaring eyes; the emaciated cheeks; the fallen mouth; the parched, sore lips; the face,
now dry and hot, and then suddenly clammy with drops of perspiration; the shaking hand, and
all but palsied limbs; and worse than this, the fearful mental efforts, and the struggles for
drink; struggles to which it is often necessary to give way.

Dr Fillgrave soon knew what was to be the man's fate; but he did what he might to relieve it.
There, in one big, best bedroom, looking out to the north, lay Sir Louis Scatcherd, dying wretchedly.
There, in the other big, best bedroom, looking out to the south, had died the other baronet
about a twelvemonth since, and each a victim to the same sin. To this had come the prosperity
of the house of Scatcherd!

And then Dr Fillgrave went on to Greshamsbury. It was a long day's work, both for himself and
the horses; but then, the triumph of being dragged up that avenue compensated for both the
expense and the labour. He always put on his sweetest smile as he came near the hall door,
and rubbed his hands in the most complaisant manner of which he knew. It was seldom that he
saw any of the family but Lady Arabella; but then he desired to see none other, and when he
left her in a good humour, was quite content to take his glass of sherry and eat his lunch
by himself.

On this occasion, however, the servant at once asked him to go into the dining-room, and there
he found himself in the presence of Frank Gresham. The fact was, that Lady Arabella, having
at last decided, had sent for Dr Thorne; and it had become necessary that some one should be
entrusted with the duty of informing Dr Fillgrave. That some one must be the squire, or Frank.
Lady Arabella would doubtless have preferred a messenger more absolutely friendly to her own
side of the house; but such messenger there was none: she could not send Mr Gazebee to see
her doctor, and so, of the two evils, she chose the least.

"Dr Fillgrave," said Frank, shaking hands with him very cordially as he came up, "my mother
is so much obliged to you for all your care and anxiety on her behalf! and, so indeed, are we all."

The doctor shook hands with him very warmly. This little expression of a family feeling on
his behalf was the more gratifying, as he had always thought that the males of the Greshamsbury
family were still wedded to that pseudo-doctor, that half-apothecary who lived in the village.

"It has been awfully troublesome to you, coming over all this way, I am sure. Indeed, money
could not pay for it; my mother feels that. It must cut up your time so much."

"Not at all, Mr Gresham; not at all," said the Barchester doctor, rising up on his toes proudly
as he spoke. "A person of your mother's importance, you know! I should be happy to go any distance
to see her."

"Ah! but, Dr Fillgrave, we cannot allow that."

"Mr Gresham, don't mention it."

"Oh, yes; but I must," said Frank, who thought that he had done enough for civility, and was
now anxious to come to the point. "The fact is, doctor, that we are very much obliged for what
you have done; but, for the future, my mother thinks she can trust to such assistance as she
can get here in the village."

Frank had been particularly instructed to be very careful how he mentioned Dr Thorne's name,
and, therefore, cleverly avoided it.

Get what assistance she wanted in the village! What words were those that he heard? "Mr Gresham,
eh--hem--perhaps I do not completely--" Yes, alas! he had completely understood what Frank
had meant that he should understand. Frank desired to be civil, but he had no idea of beating
unnecessarily about the bush on such an occasion as this.

"It's by Sir Omicron's advice, Dr Fillgrave. You see, this man here"--and he nodded his head
towards the doctor's house, being still anxious not to pronounce the hideous name--"has known
my mother's constitution for so many years."

"Oh, Mr Gresham; of course, if it is wished."

"Yes, Dr Fillgrave, it is wished. Lunch is coming directly:" and Frank rang the bell.

"Nothing, I thank you, Mr Gresham."

"Do take a glass of sherry."

"Nothing at all, I am very much obliged to you."

"Won't you let the horses get some oats?"

"I will return at once, if you please, Mr Gresham." And the doctor did return, taking with
him, on this occasion, the fee that was offered to him. His experience had at any rate taught
him so much.

But though Frank could do this for Lady Arabella, he could not receive Dr Thorne on her behalf.
The bitterness of that interview had to be borne by herself. A messenger had been sent for
him, and he was upstairs with her ladyship while his rival was receiving his congé downstairs.
She had two objects to accomplish, if it might be possible: she had found that high words with
the doctor were of no avail; but it might be possible that Frank could be saved by humiliation
on her part. If she humbled herself before this man, would he consent to acknowledge that his
niece was not the fit bride for the heir of Greshamsbury?

The doctor entered the room where she was lying on her sofa, and walking up to her with a gentle,
but yet not constrained step, took the seat beside her little table, just as he had always
been accustomed to do, and as though there had been no break in their intercourse.

"Well, doctor, you see that I have come back to you," she said, with a faint smile.

"Or, rather I have come back to you. And, believe me, Lady Arabella, I am very happy to do
so. There need be no excuses. You were, doubtless, right to try what other skill could do;
and I hope it has not been tried in vain."

She had meant to have been so condescending; but now all that was put quite beyond her power.
It was not easy to be condescending to the doctor: she had been trying all her life, and had
never succeeded.

"I have had Sir Omicron Pie," she said.

"So I was glad to hear. Sir Omicron is a clever man, and has a good name. I always recommend
Sir Omicron myself."

"And Sir Omicron returns the compliment," said she, smiling gracefully, "for he recommends
you. He told Mr Gresham that I was very foolish to quarrel with my best friend. So now we are
friends again, are we not? You see how selfish I am." And she put out her hand to him.

The doctor took her hand cordially, and assured her that he bore her no ill-will; that he fully
understood her conduct--and that he had never accused her of selfishness. This was all very
well and very gracious; but, nevertheless, Lady Arabella felt that the doctor kept the upper
hand in those sweet forgivenesses. Whereas, she had intended to keep the upper hand, at least
for a while, so that her humiliation might be more effective when it did come.

And then the doctor used his surgical lore, as he well knew how to use it. There was an assured
confidence about him, an air which seemed to declare that he really knew what he was doing.
These were very comfortable to his patients, but they were wanting in Dr Fillgrave. When he
had completed his examinations and questions, and she had completed her little details and
made her answer, she certainly was more at ease than she had been since the doctor had last
left her.

"Don't go yet for a moment," she said. "I have one word to say to you."

He declared that he was not the least in a hurry. He desired nothing better, he said, than
to sit there and talk to her. "And I owe you a most sincere apology, Lady Arabella."

"A sincere apology!" said she, becoming a little red. Was he going to say anything about Mary?
Was he going to own that he, and Mary, and Frank had all been wrong?

"Yes, indeed. I ought not to have brought Sir Louis Scatcherd here: I ought to have known that
he would have disgraced himself."

"Oh! it does not signify," said her ladyship in a tone almost of disappointment. "I had forgotten
it. Mr Gresham and you had more inconvenience than we had."

"He is an unfortunate, wretched man--most unfortunate; with an immense fortune which he can
never live to possess."

"And who will the money go to, doctor?"

This was a question for which Dr Thorne was hardly prepared. "Go to?" he repeated. "Oh, some
member of the family, I believe. There are plenty of nephews and nieces."

"Yes; but will it be divided, or all go to one?"

"Probably to one, I think. Sir Roger had a strong idea of leaving it all in one hand." If it
should happen to be a girl, thought Lady Arabella, what an excellent opportunity would that
be for Frank to marry money!

"And now, doctor, I want to say one word to you; considering the very long time that we have
known each other, it is better that I should be open with you. This estrangement between us
and dear Mary has given us all so much pain. Cannot we do anything to put an end to it?"

"Well, what can I say, Lady Arabella? That depends so wholly on yourself."

"If it depends on me, it shall be done at once."

The doctor bowed. And though he could hardly be said to do so stiffly, he did it coldly. His
bow seemed to say, "Certainly; if you choose to make a proper amende it can be done. But I
think it is very unlikely that you will do so."

"Beatrice is just going to be married, you know that, doctor." The doctor said that he did
know it. "And it will be so pleasant that Mary should make one of us. Poor Beatrice; you don't
know what she has suffered."

"Yes," said the doctor, "there has been suffering, I am sure; suffering on both sides."

"You cannot wonder that we should be so anxious about Frank, Dr Thorne; an only son, and the
heir to an estate that has been so very long in the family:" and Lady Arabella put her handkerchief
to her eyes, as though these facts were in themselves melancholy, and not to be thought of
by a mother without some soft tears. "Now I wish you could tell me what your views are, in
a friendly manner, between ourselves. You won't find me unreasonable."

"My views, Lady Arabella?"

"Yes, doctor; about your niece, you know: you must have views of some sort; that's of course.
It occurs to me, that perhaps we are all in the dark together. If so, a little candid speaking
between you and me may set it all right."

Lady Arabella's career had not hitherto been conspicuous for candour, as far as Dr Thorne had
been able to judge of it; but that was no reason why he should not respond to so very becoming
an invitation on her part. He had no objection to a little candid speaking; at least, so he
declared. As to his views with regard to Mary, they were merely these: that he would make her
as happy and comfortable as he could while she remained with him; and that he would give her
his blessing--for he had nothing else to give her--when she left him;--if ever she should do so.

Now, it will be said that the doctor was not very candid in this; not more so, perhaps, than
was Lady Arabella herself. But when one is specially invited to be candid, one is naturally
set upon one's guard. Those who by disposition are most open, are apt to become crafty when
so admonished. When a man says to you, "Let us be candid with each other," you feel instinctively
that he desires to squeeze you without giving a drop of water himself.

"Yes; but about Frank," said Lady Arabella.

"About Frank!" said the doctor, with an innocent look, which her ladyship could hardly interpret.

"What I mean is this: can you give me your word that these young people do not intend to do
anything rash? One word like that from you will set my mind quite at rest. And then we could
be so happy together again."

"Ah! who is to answer for what rash things a young man will do?" said the doctor, smiling.

Lady Arabella got up from the sofa, and pushed away the little table. The man was false, hypocritical,
and cunning. Nothing could be made of him. They were all in a conspiracy together to rob her
of her son; to make him marry without money! What should she do? Where should she turn for
advice or counsel? She had nothing more to say to the doctor; and he, perceiving that this
was the case, took his leave. This little attempt to achieve candour had not succeeded.

Dr Thorne had answered Lady Arabella as had seemed best to him on the spur of the moment; but
he was by no means satisfied with himself. As he walked away through the gardens, he bethought
himself whether it would be better for all parties if he could bring himself to be really candid.
Would it not be better for him at once to tell the squire what were the future prospects of
his niece, and let the father agree to the marriage, or not agree to it, as he might think
fit. But then, if so, if he did do this, would he not in fact say, "There is my niece, there
is this girl of whom you have been talking for the last twelvemonth, indifferent to what agony
of mind you may have occasioned to her; there she is, a probable heiress! It may be worth your
son's while to wait a little time, and not cast her off till he shall know whether she be an
heiress or no. If it shall turn out that she is rich, let him take her; if not, why, he can
desert her then as well as now." He could not bring himself to put his niece into such a position
as this. He was anxious enough that she should be Frank Gresham's wife, for he loved Frank
Gresham; he was anxious enough, also, that she should give to her husband the means of saving
the property of his family. But Frank, though he might find her rich, was bound to take her
while she was poor.

Then, also, he doubted whether he would be justified in speaking of this will at all. He almost
hated the will for the trouble and vexation it had given him, and the constant stress it had
laid on his conscience. He had spoken of it as yet to no one, and he thought that he was resolved
not to do so while Sir Louis should yet be in the land of the living.

On reaching home, he found a note from Lady Scatcherd, informing him that Dr Fillgrave had
once more been at Boxall Hill, and that, on this occasion, he had left the house without anger.

"I don't know what he has said about Louis," she added, "for, to tell the truth, doctor, I
was afraid to see him. But he comes again to-morrow, and then I shall be braver. But I fear
that my poor boy is in a bad way."

CHAPTER XLI

Doctor Thorne Won't Interfere

At this period there was, as it were, a truce to the ordinary little skirmishes which had been
so customary between Lady Arabella and the squire. Things had so fallen out, that they neither
of them had much spirit for a contest; and, moreover, on that point which at the present moment
was most thought of by both of them, they were strangely in unison. For each of them was anxious
to prevent the threatened marriage of their only son.

It must, moreover, be remembered, that Lady Arabella had carried a great point in ousting Mr
Yates Umbleby and putting the management of the estate into the hands of her own partisan.
But then the squire had not done less in getting rid of Fillgrave and reinstating Dr Thorne
in possession of the family invalids. The losses, therefore, had been equal; the victories
equal; and there was a mutual object.

And it must be confessed, also, that Lady Arabella's taste for grandeur was on the decline.
Misfortune was coming too near to her to leave her much anxiety for the gaieties of a London
season. Things were not faring well with her. When her eldest daughter was going to marry a
man of fortune, and a member of Parliament, she had thought nothing of demanding a thousand
pounds or so for the extraordinary expenses incident to such an occasion. But now, Beatrice
was to become the wife of a parish parson, and even that was thought to be a fortunate event;
she had, therefore, no heart for splendour.

"The quieter we can do it the better," she wrote to her countess-sister. "Her father wanted
to give him at least a thousand pounds; but Mr Gazebee has told me confidentially that it literally
cannot be done at the present moment! Ah, my dear Rosina! how things have been managed! If
one or two of the girls will come over, we shall all take it as a favour. Beatrice would think
it very kind of them. But I don't think of asking you or Amelia." Amelia was always the grandest
of the de Courcy family, being almost on an equality with--nay, in some respect superior to--the
countess herself. But this, of course, was before the days of the nice place in Surrey.

Such, and so humble being the present temper of the lady of Greshamsbury, it will not be thought
surprising that she and Mr Gresham should at last come together in their efforts to reclaim
their son.

At first Lady Arabella urged upon the squire the duty of being very peremptory and very angry.
"Do as other fathers do in such cases. Make him understand that he will have no allowance to
live on." "He understands that well enough," said Mr Gresham.

"Threaten to cut him off with a shilling," said her ladyship, with spirit. "I haven't a shilling
to cut him off with," answered the squire, bitterly.

But Lady Arabella herself soon perceived, that this line would not do. As Mr Gresham himself
confessed, his own sins against his son had been too great to allow of his taking a high hand
with him. Besides, Mr Gresham was not a man who could ever be severe with a son whose individual
conduct had been so good as Frank's. This marriage was, in his view, a misfortune to be averted
if possible,--to be averted by any possible means; but, as far as Frank was concerned, it was
to be regarded rather as a monomania than a crime.

"I did feel so certain that he would have succeeded with Miss Dunstable," said the mother,
almost crying.

"I thought it impossible but that at his age a twelvemonth's knocking about the world would
cure him," said the father.

"I never heard of a boy being so obstinate about a girl," said the mother. "I'm sure he didn't
get it from the de Courcys:" and then, again, they talked it over in all its bearings.

"But what are they to live upon?" said Lady Arabella, appealing, as it were, to some impersonation
of reason. "That's what I want him to tell me. What are they to live upon?"

"I wonder whether de Courcy could get him into some embassy?" said the father. "He does talk
of a profession."

"What! with the girl and all?" asked Lady Arabella with horror, alarmed at the idea of such
an appeal being made to her noble brother.

"No; but before he marries. He might be broken of it that way."

"Nothing will break him," said the wretched mother; "nothing--nothing. For my part, I think
that he is possessed. Why was she brought here? Oh, dear! oh, dear! Why was she ever brought
into this house?"

This last question Mr Gresham did not think it necessary to answer. That evil had been done,
and it would be useless to dispute it. "I'll tell you what I'll do," said he. "I'll speak to
the doctor himself."

"It's not the slightest use," said Lady Arabella. "He will not assist us. Indeed, I firmly
believe it's all his own doing."

"Oh, nonsense! that really is nonsense, my love."

"Very well, Mr Gresham. What I say is always nonsense, I know; you have always told me so.
But yet, see how things have turned out. I knew how it would be when she was first brought
into the house." This assertion was rather a stretch on the part of Lady Arabella.

"Well, it is nonsense to say that Frank is in love with the girl at the doctor's bidding."

"I think you know, Mr Gresham, that I don't mean that. What I say is this, that Dr Thorne,
finding what an easy fool Frank is--"

"I don't think he's at all easy, my love; and certainly is not a fool."

"Very well, have it your own way. I'll not say a word more. I'm struggling to do my best, and
I'm browbeaten on every side. God knows I am not in a state of health to bear it!" And Lady
Arabella bowed her head into her pocket-handkerchief.

"I think, my dear, if you were to see Mary herself it might do some good," said the squire,
when the violence of his wife's grief had somewhat subsided.

"What! go and call upon this girl?"

"Yes; you can send Beatrice to give her notice, you know. She never was unreasonable, and I
do not think that you would find her so. You should tell her, you know--"

"Oh, I should know very well what to tell her, Mr Gresham."

"Yes, my love; I'm sure you would; nobody better. But what I mean is, that if you are to do
any good, you should be kind in your manner. Mary Thorne has a spirit that you cannot break.
You may perhaps lead, but nobody can drive her."

As this scheme originated with her husband, Lady Arabella could not, of course, confess that
there was much in it. But, nevertheless, she determined to attempt it, thinking that if anything
could be efficacious for good in their present misfortunes, it would be her own diplomatic
powers. It was, therefore, at last settled between them, that he should endeavour to talk over
the doctor, and that she would do the same with Mary.

"And then I will speak to Frank," said Lady Arabella. "As yet he has never had the audacity
to open his mouth to me about Mary Thorne, though I believe he declares his love openly to
every one else in the house."

"And I will get Oriel to speak to him," said the squire.

"I think Patience might do more good. I did once think he was getting fond of Patience, and
I was quite unhappy about it then. Ah, dear! I should be almost pleased at that now."

And thus it was arranged that all the artillery of Greshamsbury was to be brought to bear at
once on Frank's love, so as to crush it, as it were, by the very weight of metal.

It may be imagined that the squire would have less scruple in addressing the doctor on this
matter than his wife would feel; and that his part of their present joint undertaking was less
difficult than hers. For he and the doctor had ever been friends at heart. But, nevertheless,
he did feel much scruple, as, with his stick in hand, he walked down to the little gate which
opened out near the doctor's house.

This feeling was so strong, that he walked on beyond this door to the entrance, thinking of
what he was going to do, and then back again. It seemed to be his fate to be depending always
on the clemency or consideration of Dr Thorne. At this moment the doctor was imposing the only
obstacle which was offered to the sale of a great part of his estate. Sir Louis, through his
lawyer, was pressing the doctor to sell, and the lawyer was loudly accusing the doctor of delaying
to do so. "He has the management of your property," said Mr Finnie; "but he manages it in the
interest of his own friend. It is quite clear, and we will expose it." "By all means," said
Sir Louis. "It is a d----d shame, and it shall be exposed." Of all this the squire was aware.

When he reached the doctor's house, he was shown into the drawing-room, and found Mary there
alone. It had always been his habit to kiss her forehead when he chanced to meet her about
the house at Greshamsbury. She had been younger and more childish then; but even now she was
but a child to him, so he kissed her as he had been wont to do. She blushed slightly as she
looked up into his face, and said: "Oh, Mr Gresham, I am so glad to see you here again."

As he looked at her he could not but acknowledge that it was natural that Frank should love
her. He had never before seen that she was attractive;--had never had an opinion about it.
She had grown up as a child under his eye; and as she had not had the name of being especially
a pretty child, he had never thought on the subject. Now he saw before him a woman whose every
feature was full of spirit and animation; whose eye sparkled with more than mere brilliancy;
whose face was full of intelligence; whose very smile was eloquent. Was it to be wondered at
that Frank should have learned to love her?

Miss Thorne wanted but one attribute which many consider essential to feminine beauty. She
had no brilliancy of complexion, no pearly whiteness, no vivid carnation; nor, indeed, did
she possess the dark brilliance of a brunette. But there was a speaking earnestness in her
face; an expression of mental faculty which the squire now for the first time perceived to
be charming.

And then he knew how good she was. He knew well what was her nature; how generous, how open,
how affectionate, and yet how proud! Her pride was her fault; but even that was not a fault
in his eyes. Out of his own family there was no one whom he had loved, and could love, as he
loved her. He felt, and acknowledged that no man could have a better wife. And yet he was there
with the express object of rescuing his son from such a marriage!

"You are looking very well, Mary," he said, almost involuntarily. "Am I?" she answered, smiling.
"It's very nice at any rate to be complimented. Uncle never pays me any compliments of that sort."

In truth, she was looking well. She would say to herself over and over again, from morning
to night, that Frank's love for her would be, must be, unfortunate; could not lead to happiness.
But, nevertheless, it did make her happy. She had before his return made up her mind to be
forgotten, and it was so sweet to find that he had been so far from forgetting her. A girl
may scold a man in words for rashness in his love, but her heart never scolds him for such
an offence as that. She had not been slighted, and her heart, therefore, still rose buoyant
within her breast.

The doctor entered the room. As the squire's visit had been expected by him, he had of course
not been out of the house. "And now I suppose I must go," said Mary; "for I know you are going
to talk about business. But, uncle, Mr Gresham says I'm looking very well. Why have you not
been able to find that out?"

"She's a dear, good girl," said the squire, as the door shut behind her; "a dear good girl;"
and the doctor could not fail to see that his eyes were filled with tears.

"I think she is," said he, quietly. And then they both sat silent, as though each was waiting
to hear whether the other had anything more to say on that subject. The doctor, at any rate,
had nothing more to say.

"I have come here specially to speak to you about her," said the squire.

"About Mary?"

"Yes, doctor; about her and Frank: something must be done, some arrangement made: if not for
our sakes, at least for theirs."

"What arrangement, squire?"

"Ah! that is the question. I take it for granted that either Frank or Mary has told you that
they have engaged themselves to each other."

"Frank told me so twelve months since."

"And has not Mary told you?"

"Not exactly that. But, never mind; she has, I believe, no secret from me. Though I have said
but little to her, I think I know it all."

"Well, what then?"

The doctor shook his head and put up his hands. He had nothing to say; no proposition to make;
no arrangement to suggest. The thing was so, and he seemed to say that, as far as he was concerned,
there was an end of it.

The squire sat looking at him, hardly knowing how to proceed. It seemed to him, that the fact
of a young man and a young lady being in love with each other was not a thing to be left to
arrange itself, particularly, seeing the rank of life in which they were placed. But the doctor
seemed to be of a different opinion.

"But, Dr Thorne, there is no man on God's earth who knows my affairs as well as you do; and
in knowing mine, you know Frank's. Do you think it possible that they should marry each other?"

"Possible; yes, it is possible. You mean, will it be prudent?"

"Well, take it in that way; would it not be most imprudent?"

"At present, it certainly would be. I have never spoken to either of them on the subject; but
I presume they do not think of such a thing for the present."

"But, doctor--" The squire was certainly taken aback by the coolness of the doctor's manner.
After all, he, the squire, was Mr Gresham of Greshamsbury, generally acknowledged to be the
first commoner in Barsetshire; after all, Frank was his heir, and, in process of time, he would
be Mr Gresham of Greshamsbury. Crippled as the estate was, there would be something left, and
the rank at any rate remained. But as to Mary, she was not even the doctor's daughter. She
was not only penniless, but nameless, fatherless, worse than motherless! It was incredible
that Dr Thorne, with his generally exalted ideas as to family, should speak in this cold way
as to a projected marriage between the heir of Greshamsbury and his brother's bastard child!

"But, doctor," repeated the squire.

The doctor put one leg over the other, and began to rub his calf. "Squire," said he. "I think
I know all that you would say, all that you mean. And you don't like to say it, because you
would not wish to pain me by alluding to Mary's birth."

"But, independently of that, what would they live on?" said the squire, energetically. "Birth
is a great thing, a very great thing. You and I think exactly alike about that, so we need
have no dispute. You are quite as proud of Ullathorne as I am of Greshamsbury."

"I might be if it belonged to me."

"But you are. It is no use arguing. But, putting that aside altogether, what would they live
on? If they were to marry, what would they do? Where would they go? You know what Lady Arabella
thinks of such things; would it be possible that they should live up at the house with her?
Besides, what a life would that be for both of them! Could they live here? Would that be well
for them?"

The squire looked at the doctor for an answer; but he still went on rubbing his calf. Mr Gresham,
therefore, was constrained to continue his expostulation.

"When I am dead there will still, I hope, be something;--something left for the poor fellow.
Lady Arabella and the girls would be better off, perhaps, than now, and I sometimes wish, for
Frank's sake, that the time had come."

The doctor could not now go on rubbing his leg. He was moved to speak, and declared that, of
all events, that was the one which would be furthest from Frank's heart. "I know no son," said
he, "who loves his father more dearly than he does."

"I do believe it," said the squire; "I do believe it. But yet, I cannot but feel that I am
in his way."

"No, squire, no; you are in no one's way. You will find yourself happy with your son yet, and
proud of him. And proud of his wife, too. I hope so, and I think so: I do, indeed, or I should
not say so, squire; we will have many a happy day yet together, when we shall talk of all these
things over the dining-room fire at Greshamsbury."

The squire felt it kind in the doctor that he should thus endeavour to comfort him; but he
could not understand, and did not inquire, on what basis these golden hopes was founded. It
was necessary, however, to return to the subject which he had come to discuss. Would the doctor
assist him in preventing this marriage? That was now the one thing necessary to be kept in view.

"But, doctor, about the young people; of course they cannot marry, you are aware of that."

"I don't know that exactly."

"Well, doctor, I must say I thought you would feel it."

"Feel what, squire?"

"That, situated as they are, they ought not to marry."

"That is quite another question. I have said nothing about that either to you or to anybody
else. The truth is, squire, I have never interfered in this matter one way or the other; and
I have no wish to do so now."

"But should you not interfere? Is not Mary the same to you as your own child?"

Dr Thorne hardly knew how to answer this. He was aware that his argument about not interfering
was in fact absurd. Mary could not marry without his interference; and had it been the case
that she was in danger of making an improper marriage, of course he would interfere. His meaning
was, that he would not at the present moment express any opinion; he would not declare against
a match which might turn out to be in every way desirable; nor, if he spoke in favour of it,
could he give his reasons for doing so. Under these circumstances, he would have wished to
say nothing, could that only have been possible.

But as it was not possible, and as he must say something, he answered the squire's last question
by asking another. "What is your objection, squire?"

"Objection! Why, what on earth would they live on?"

"Then I understand, that if that difficulty were over, you would not refuse your consent merely
because of Mary's birth?"

This was a manner in which the squire had by no means expected to have the affair presented
to him. It seemed so impossible that any sound-minded man should take any but his view of the
case, that he had not prepared himself for argument. There was every objection to his son marrying
Miss Thorne; but the fact of their having no income between them, did certainly justify him
in alleging that first.

"But that difficulty can't be got over, doctor. You know, however, that it would be cause of
grief to us all to see Frank marry much beneath his station; that is, I mean, in family. You
should not press me to say this, for you know that I love Mary dearly."

"But, my dear friend, it is necessary. Wounds sometimes must be opened in order that they may
be healed. What I mean is this;--and, squire, I'm sure I need not say to you that I hope for
an honest answer,--were Mary Thorne an heiress; had she, for instance, such wealth as that
Miss Dunstable that we hear of; in that case would you object to the match?"

When the doctor declared that he expected an honest answer the squire listened with all his
ears; but the question, when finished, seemed to have no bearing on the present case.

"Come, squire, speak your mind faithfully. There was some talk once of Frank's marrying Miss
Dunstable; did you mean to object to that match?"

"Miss Dunstable was legitimate; at least, I presume so."

"Oh, Mr Gresham! has it come to that? Miss Dunstable, then, would have satisfied your ideas
of high birth?"

Mr Gresham was rather posed, and regretted, at the moment, his allusion to Miss Dunstable's
presumed legitimacy. But he soon recovered himself. "No," said he, "it would not. And I am
willing to admit, as I have admitted before, that the undoubted advantages arising from wealth
are taken by the world as atoning for what otherwise would be a mésalliance. But--"

"You admit that, do you? You acknowledge that as your conviction on the subject?"

"Yes. But--" The squire was going on to explain the propriety of this opinion, but the doctor
uncivilly would not hear him.

"Then squire, I will not interfere in this matter one way or the other."

"How on earth can such an opinion--"

"Pray excuse me, Mr Gresham; but my mind is now quite made up. It was very nearly so before.
I will do nothing to encourage Frank, nor will I say anything to discourage Mary."

"That is the most singular resolution that a man of sense like you ever came to."

"I can't help it, squire; it is my resolution."

"But what has Miss Dunstable's fortune to do with it?"

"I cannot say that it has anything; but, in this matter, I will not interfere."

The squire went on for some time, but it was all to no purpose; and at last he left the house,
considerably in dudgeon. The only conclusion to which he could come was, that Dr Thorne had
thought the chance on his niece's behalf too good to be thrown away, and had, therefore, resolved
to act in this very singular way.

"I would not have believed it of him, though all Barsetshire had told me," he said to himself
as he entered the great gates; and he went on repeating the same words till he found himself
in his own room. "No, not if all Barsetshire had told me!"

He did not, however, communicate the ill result of his visit to the Lady Arabella.

CHAPTER XLII

What Can You Give in Return?

In spite of the family troubles, these were happy days for Beatrice. It so seldom happens that
young ladies on the eve of their marriage have their future husbands living near them. This
happiness was hers, and Mr Oriel made the most of it. She was constantly being coaxed down
to the parsonage by Patience, in order that she might give her opinion, in private, as to some
domestic arrangement, some piece of furniture, or some new carpet; but this privacy was always
invaded. What Mr Oriel's parishioners did in these halcyon days, I will not ask. His morning
services, however, had been altogether given up, and he had provided himself with a very excellent
curate.

But one grief did weigh heavily on Beatrice. She continually heard her mother say things which
made her feel that it would be more than ever impossible that Mary should be at her wedding;
and yet she had promised her brother to ask her. Frank had also repeated his threat, that if
Mary were not present, he would absent himself.

Beatrice did what most girls do in such a case; what all would do who are worth anything; she
asked her lover's advice.

"Oh! but Frank can't be in earnest," said the lover. "Of course he'll be at our wedding."

"You don't know him, Caleb. He is so changed that no one hardly would know him. You can't conceive
how much in earnest he is, how determined and resolute. And then, I should like to have Mary
so much if mamma would let her come."

"Ask Lady Arabella," said Caleb.

"Well, I suppose I must do that; but I know what she'll say, and Frank will never believe that
I have done my best." Mr Oriel comforted her with such little whispered consolations as he
was able to afford, and then she went away on her errand to her mother.

She was indeed surprised at the manner in which her prayer was received. She could hardly falter
forth her petition; but when she had done so, Lady Arabella answered in this wise:--

"Well my dear, I have no objection, none the least; that is, of course, if Mary is disposed
to behave herself properly."

"Oh, mamma! of course she will," said Beatrice; "she always did and always does."

"I hope she will, my love. But, Beatrice, when I say that I shall be glad to see her, of course
I mean under certain conditions. I never disliked Mary Thorne, and if she would only let Frank
understand that she will not listen to his mad proposals, I should be delighted to see her
at Greshamsbury just as she used to be."

Beatrice could say nothing in answer to this; but she felt very sure that Mary, let her intention
be what it might, would not undertake to make Frank understand anything at anybody's bidding.

"I will tell you what I will do, my dear," continued Lady Arabella; "I will call on Mary myself."

"What! at Dr Thorne's house?"

"Yes; why not? I have been at Dr Thorne's house before now." And Lady Arabella could not but
think of her last visit thither, and the strong feeling she had, as she came out, that she
would never again enter those doors. She was, however, prepared to do anything on behalf of
her rebellious son.

"Oh, yes! I know that, mamma."

"I will call upon her, and I can possibly manage it, I will ask her myself to make one of your
party. If so, you can go to her afterwards and make your own arrangements. Just write her a
note, my dear, and say that I will call to-morrow at twelve. It might fluster her if I were
to go in without notice."

Beatrice did as she was bid, but with a presentiment that no good would come of it. The note
was certainly unnecessary for the purpose assigned by Lady Arabella, as Mary was not given
to be flustered by such occurrences; but, perhaps, it was as well that it was written, as it
enabled her to make up her mind steadily as to what information should be given, and what should
not be given to her coming visitor.

On the next morning, at the appointed hour, Lady Arabella walked down to the doctor's house.
She never walked about the village without making some little disturbance among the inhabitants.
With the squire, himself, they were quite familiar, and he could appear and reappear without
creating any sensation; but her ladyship had not made herself equally common in men's sight.
Therefore, when she went in at the doctor's little gate, the fact was known through all Greshamsbury
in ten minutes, and before she had left the house, Mrs Umbleby and Miss Gushing had quite settled
between them what was the exact cause of the very singular event.

The doctor, when he had heard what was going to happen, carefully kept out of the way: Mary,
therefore, had the pleasure of receiving Lady Arabella alone. Nothing could exceed her ladyship's
affability. Mary thought that it perhaps might have savoured less of condescension; but then,
on this subject, Mary was probably prejudiced. Lady Arabella smiled and simpered, and asked
after the doctor, and the cat, and Janet, and said everything that could have been desired
by any one less unreasonable than Mary Thorne.

"And now, Mary, I'll tell you why I have called." Mary bowed her head slightly, as much to
say, that she would be glad to receive any information that Lady Arabella could give her on
that subject. "Of course you know that Beatrice is going to be married very shortly."

Mary acknowledged that she had heard so much.

"Yes: we think it will be in September--early in September--and that is coming very soon now.
The poor girl is anxious that you should be at her wedding." Mary turned slightly red; but
she merely said, and that somewhat too coldly, that she was much indebted to Beatrice for her
kindness.

"I can assure you, Mary, that she is very fond of you, as much so as ever; and so, indeed,
am I, and all of us are so. You know that Mr Gresham was always your friend."

"Yes, he always was, and I am grateful to Mr Gresham," answered Mary. It was well for Lady
Arabella that she had her temper under command, for had she spoken her mind out there would
have been very little chance left for reconciliation between her and Mary.

"Yes, indeed he was; and I think we all did what little we could to make you welcome at Greshamsbury,
Mary, till those unpleasant occurrences took place."

"What occurrences, Lady Arabella?"

"And Beatrice is so very anxious on this point," said her ladyship, ignoring for the moment
Mary's question. "You two have been so much together, that she feels she cannot be quite happy
if you are not near her when she is being married."

"Dear Beatrice!" said Mary, warmed for the moment to an expression of genuine feeling.

"She came to me yesterday, begging that I would waive any objection I might have to your being
there. I have made her no answer yet. What answer do you think I ought to make her?"

Mary was astounded at this question, and hesitated in her reply. "What answer ought you to
make her?" she said.

"Yes, Mary. What answer do you think I ought to give? I wish to ask you the question, as you
are the person the most concerned."

Mary considered for a while, and then did give her opinion on the matter in a firm voice. "I
think you should tell Beatrice, that as you cannot at present receive me cordially in your
house, it will be better that you should not be called on to receive me at all."

This was certainly not the sort of answer that Lady Arabella expected, and she was now somewhat
astounded in her turn. "But, Mary," she said, "I should be delighted to receive you cordially
if I could do so."

"But it seems you cannot, Lady Arabella; and so there must be an end of it."

"Oh, but I do not know that:" and she smiled her sweetest smile. "I do not know that. I want
to put an end to all this ill-feeling if I can. It all depends upon one thing, you know."

"Does it, Lady Arabella?"

"Yes, upon one thing. You won't be angry if I ask you another question--eh, Mary?"

"No; at least I don't think I will."

"Is there any truth in what we hear about your being engaged to Frank?"

Mary made no immediate answer to this, but sat quite silent, looking Lady Arabella in the face;
not but that she had made up her mind as to what answer she would give, but the exact words
failed her at the moment.

"Of course you must have heard of such a rumour," continued Lady Arabella.

"Oh, yes, I have heard of it."

"Yes, and you have noticed it, and I must say very properly. When you went to Boxall Hill,
and before that with Miss Oriel's to her aunt's, I thought you behaved extremely well." Mary
felt herself glow with indignation, and began to prepare words that should be sharp and decisive.
"But, nevertheless, people talk; and Frank, who is still quite a boy" (Mary's indignation was
not softened by this allusion to Frank's folly), "seems to have got some nonsense in his head.
I grieve to say it, but I feel myself in justice bound to do so, that in this matter he has
not acted as well as you have done. Now, therefore, I merely ask you whether there is any truth
in the report. If you tell me that there is none, I shall be quite contented."

"But it is altogether true, Lady Arabella; I am engaged to Frank Gresham."

"Engaged to be married to him?"

"Yes; engaged to be married to him."

What was to say or do now? Nothing could be more plain, more decided, or less embarrassed with
doubt than Mary's declaration. And as she made it she looked her visitor full in the face,
blushing indeed, for her cheeks were now suffused as well as her forehead; but boldly, and,
as it were, with defiance.

"And you tell me so to my face, Miss Thorne?"

"And why not? Did you not ask me the question; and would you have me answer you with a falsehood?
I am engaged to him. As you would put the question to me, what other answer could I make? The
truth is, that I am engaged to him."

The decisive abruptness with which Mary declared her own iniquity almost took away her ladyship's
breath. She had certainly believed that they were engaged, and had hardly hoped that Mary would
deny it; but she had not expected that the crime would be acknowledged, or, at any rate, if
acknowledged, that the confession would be made without some show of shame. On this Lady Arabella
could have worked; but there was no such expression, nor was there the slightest hesitation.
"I am engaged to Frank Gresham," and having so said, Mary looked her visitor full in the face.

"Then it is indeed impossible that you should be received at Greshamsbury."

"At present, quite so, no doubt: in saying so, Lady Arabella, you only repeat the answer I
made to your first question. I can now go to Greshamsbury only in one light: that of Mr Gresham's
accepted daughter-in-law."

"And that is perfectly out of the question; altogether out of the question, now and for ever."

"I will not dispute with you about that; but, as I said before, my being at Beatrice's wedding
is not to be thought of."

Lady Arabella sat for a while silent, that she might meditate, if possible, calmly as to what
line of argument she had now better take. It would be foolish in her, she thought, to return
home, having merely expressed her anger. She had now an opportunity of talking to Mary which
might not again occur: the difficulty was in deciding in what special way she should use the
opportunity. Should she threaten, or should she entreat? To do her justice, it should be stated,
that she did actually believe that the marriage was all but impossible; she did not think that
it could take place. But the engagement might be the ruin of her son's prospects, seeing how
he had before him one imperative, one immediate duty--that of marrying money.

Having considered all this as well as her hurry would allow her, she determined first to reason,
then to entreat, and lastly, if necessary, to threaten.

"I am astonished! you cannot be surprised at that, Miss Thorne: I am astonished at hearing
so singular a confession made."

"Do you think my confession singular, or is it the fact of my being engaged to your son?"

"We will pass over that for the present. But do let me ask you, do you think it possible, I
say possible, that you and Frank should be married?"

"Oh, certainly; quite possible."

"Of course you know that he has not a shilling in the world."

"Nor have I, Lady Arabella."

"Nor will he have were he to do anything so utterly hostile to his father's wishes. The property,
you are aware, is altogether at Mr Gresham's disposal."

"I am aware of nothing about the property, and can say nothing about it except this, that it
has not been, and will not be inquired after by me in this matter. If I marry Frank Gresham,
it will not be for the property. I am sorry to make such an apparent boast, but you force me
to do it."

"On what then are you to live? You are too old for love in a cottage, I suppose?"

"Not at all too old; Frank, you know is 'still quite a boy.'"

Impudent hussy! forward, ill-conditioned saucy minx! such were the epithets which rose to Lady
Arabella's mind; but she politely suppressed them.

"Miss Thorne, this subject is of course to me very serious; very ill-adapted for jesting. I
look upon such a marriage as absolutely impossible."

"I do not know what you mean by impossible, Lady Arabella."

"I mean, in the first place, that you two could not get yourselves married."

"Oh, yes; Mr Oriel would manage that for us. We are his parishioners, and he would be bound
to do it."

"I beg your pardon; I believe that under all the circumstances it would be illegal."

Mary smiled; but she said nothing. "You may laugh, Miss Thorne, but I think you will find that
I am right. There are still laws to prevent such fearful distress as would be brought about
by such a marriage."

"I hope that nothing I shall do will bring distress on the family."

"Ah, but it would; don't you know that it would? Think of it, Miss Thorne. Think of Frank's
state, and of his father's state. You know enough of that, I am sure, to be well aware that
Frank is not in a condition to marry without money. Think of the position which Mr Gresham's
only son should hold in the county; think of the old name, and the pride we have in it; you
have lived among us enough to understand all this; think of these things, and then say whether
it is possible such a marriage should take place without family distress of the deepest kind.
Think of Mr Gresham; if you truly love my son, you could not wish to bring on him all this
misery and ruin."

Mary now was touched, for there was truth in what Lady Arabella said. But she had no power
of going back; her troth was plighted, and nothing that any human being could say should shake
her from it. If he, indeed, chose to repent, that would be another thing.

"Lady Arabella," she said, "I have nothing to say in favour of this engagement, except that
he wishes it."

"And is that a reason, Mary?"

"To me it is; not only a reason, but a law. I have given him my promise."

"And you will keep your promise even to his own ruin?"

"I hope not. Our engagement, unless he shall choose to break it off, must necessarily be a
long one; but the time will come--"

"What! when Mr Gresham is dead?"

"Before that, I hope."

"There is no probability of it. And because he is headstrong, you, who have always had credit
for so much sense, will hold him to this mad engagement?"

"No, Lady Arabella; I will not hold him to anything to which he does not wish to be held. Nothing
that you can say shall move me: nothing that anybody can say shall induce me to break my promise
to him. But a word from himself will do it. One look will be sufficient. Let him give me to
understand, in any way, that his love for me is injurious to him--that he has learnt to think
so--and then I will renounce my part in this engagement as quickly as you could wish it."

There was much in this promise, but still not so much as Lady Arabella wished to get. Mary,
she knew, was obstinate, but yet reasonable; Frank, she thought, was both obstinate and unreasonable.
It might be possible to work on Mary's reason, but quite impossible to touch Frank's irrationality.
So she persevered--foolishly.

"Miss Thorne--that, is, Mary, for I still wish to be thought your friend--"

"I will tell you the truth, Lady Arabella: for some considerable time past I have not thought
you so."

"Then you have wronged me. But I will go on with what I was saying. You quite acknowledge that
this is a foolish affair?"

"I acknowledge no such thing."

"Something very much like it. You have not a word in its defence."

"Not to you: I do not choose to be put on my defence by you."

"I don't know who has more right; however, you promise that if Frank wishes it, you will release
him from his engagement."

"Release him! It is for him to release me, that is, if he wishes it."

"Very well; at any rate, you give him permission to do so. But will it not be more honourable
for you to begin?"

"No; I think not."

"Ah, but it would. If he, in his position, should be the first to speak, the first to suggest
that this affair between you is a foolish one, what would people say?"

"They would say the truth."

"And what would you yourself say?"

"Nothing."

"What would he think of himself?"

"Ah, that I do not know. It is according as that may be, that he will or will not act at your
bidding."

"Exactly; and because you know him to be high-minded, because you think that he, having so
much to give, will not break his word to you--to you who have nothing to give in return--it
is, therefore, that you say that the first step must be taken by him. Is that noble?"

Then Mary rose from her seat, for it was no longer possible for her to speak what it was in
her to say, sitting there leisurely on her sofa. Lady Arabella's worship of money had not hitherto
been so brought forward in the conversation as to give her unpardonable offence; but now she
felt that she could no longer restrain her indignation. "To you who have nothing to give in
return!" Had she not given all that she possessed? Had she not emptied his store into her lap?
that heart of hers, beating with such genuine life, capable of such perfect love, throbbing
with so grand a pride; had she not given that? And was it not that, between him and her, more
than twenty Greshamsburys, nobler than any pedigree? "To you who have nothing to give," indeed!
This to her who was so ready to give everything!

"Lady Arabella," she said, "I think that you do not understand me, and that it is not likely
that you should. If so, our further talking will be worse than useless. I have taken no account
of what will be given between your son and me in your sense of the word giving. But he has
professed to--to love me"--as she spoke, she still looked on the lady's face, but her eyelashes
for a moment screened her eyes, and her colour was a little heightened--"and I have acknowledged
that I also love him, and so we are engaged. To me my promise is sacred. I will not be threatened
into breaking it. If, however, he shall wish to change his mind, he can do so. I will not upbraid
him; will not, if I can help it, think harshly of him. So much you may tell him if it suits
you; but I will not listen to your calculations as to how much or how little each of us may
have to give to the other."

She was still standing when she finished speaking, and so she continued to stand. Her eyes
were fixed on Lady Arabella, and her position seemed to say that sufficient words had been
spoken, and that it was time that her ladyship should go; and so Lady Arabella felt it. Gradually
she also rose; slowly, but tacitly, she acknowledged that she was in the presence of a spirit
superior to her own; and so she took her leave.

"Very well," she said, in a tone that was intended to be grandiloquent, but which failed grievously;
"I will tell him that he has your permission to think a second time on this matter. I do not
doubt but that he will do so." Mary would not condescend to answer, but curtsied low as her
visitor left the room. And so the interview was over.

The interview was over, and Mary was alone. She remained standing as long as she heard the
footsteps of Frank's mother on the stairs; not immediately thinking of what had passed, but
still buoying herself up with her hot indignation, as though her work with Lady Arabella was
not yet finished; but when the footfall was no longer heard, and the sound of the closing door
told her that she was in truth alone, she sank back in her seat, and, covering her face with
her hands, burst into bitter tears.

All that doctrine about money was horrible to her; that insolent pretence, that she had caught
at Frank because of his worldly position, made her all but ferocious; but Lady Arabella had
not the less spoken much that was true. She did think of the position which the heir of Greshamsbury
should hold in the county, and of the fact that a marriage would mar that position so vitally;
she did think of the old name, and the old Gresham pride; she did think of the squire and his
deep distress: it was true that she had lived among them long enough to understand these things,
and to know that it was not possible that this marriage should take place without deep family
sorrow.

And then she asked herself whether, in consenting to accept Frank's hand, she had adequately
considered this; and she was forced to acknowledge that she had not considered it. She had
ridiculed Lady Arabella for saying that Frank was still a boy; but was it not true that his
offer had been made with a boy's energy, rather than a man's forethought? If so, if she had
been wrong to accede to that offer when made, would she not be doubly wrong to hold him to
it now that she saw their error?

It was doubtless true that Frank himself could not be the first to draw back. What would people
say of him? She could now calmly ask herself the question that had so angered her when asked
by Lady Arabella. If he could not do it, and if, nevertheless, it behoved them to break off
this match, by whom was it to be done if not by her? Was not Lady Arabella right throughout,
right in her conclusions, though so foully wrong in her manner of drawing them?

And then she did think for one moment of herself. "You who have nothing to give in return!"
Such had been Lady Arabella's main accusation against her. Was it in fact true that she had
nothing to give? Her maiden love, her feminine pride, her very life, and spirit, and being--were
these things nothing? Were they to be weighed against pounds sterling per annum? and, when
so weighed, were they ever to kick the beam like feathers? All these things had been nothing
to her when, without reflection, governed wholly by the impulse of the moment, she had first
allowed his daring hand to lie for an instant in her own. She had thought nothing of these
things when that other suitor came, richer far than Frank, to love whom it was as impossible
to her as it was not to love him.

Her love had been pure from all such thoughts; she was conscious that it ever would be pure
from them. Lady Arabella was unable to comprehend this, and, therefore, was Lady Arabella so
utterly distasteful to her.

Frank had once held her close to his warm breast; and her very soul had thrilled with joy to
feel that he so loved her,--with a joy which she had hardly dared to acknowledge. At that moment,
her maidenly efforts had been made to push him off, but her heart had grown to his. She had
acknowledged him to be master of her spirit; her bosom's lord; the man whom she had been born
to worship; the human being to whom it was for her to link her destiny. Frank's acres had been
of no account; nor had his want of acres. God had brought them two together that they should
love each other; that conviction had satisfied her, and she had made it a duty to herself that
she would love him with her very soul. And now she was called upon to wrench herself asunder
from him because she had nothing to give in return!

Well, she would wrench herself asunder, as far as such wrenching might be done compatibly with
her solemn promise. It might be right that Frank should have an opportunity offered him, so
that he might escape from his position without disgrace. She would endeavour to give him this
opportunity. So, with one deep sigh, she arose, took herself pen, ink, and paper, and sat herself
down again so that the wrenching might begin.

And then, for a moment, she thought of her uncle. Why had he not spoken to her of all this?
Why had he not warned her? He who had ever been so good to her, why had he now failed her so
grievously? She had told him everything, had had no secret from him; but he had never answered
her a word. "He also must have known," she said to herself, piteously, "he also must have known
that I could give nothing in return." Such accusation, however, availed her not at all, so
she sat down and slowly wrote her letter.

"Dearest Frank," she began. She had at first written "dear Mr Gresham;" but her heart revolted
against such useless coldness. She was not going to pretend she did not love him.

   DEAREST FRANK,

   Your mother has been here talking to me about our
   engagement. I do not generally agree with her about such
   matters; but she has said some things to-day which I
   cannot but acknowledge to be true. She says, that our
   marriage would be distressing to your father, injurious to
   all your family, and ruinous to yourself. If this be so,
   how can I, who love you, wish for such a marriage?

   I remember my promise, and have kept it. I would not
   yield to your mother when she desired me to disclaim our
   engagement. But I do think it will be more prudent if
   you will consent to forget all that has passed between
   us--not, perhaps, to forget it; that may not be possible
   for us--but to let it pass by as though it had never
   been. If so, if you think so, dear Frank, do not have any
   scruples on my account. What will be best for you, must be
   best for me. Think what a reflection it would ever be to
   me, to have been the ruin of one that I love so well.

   Let me have but one word to say that I am released from my
   promise, and I will tell my uncle that the matter between
   us is over. It will be painful for us at first; those
   occasional meetings which must take place will distress
   us, but that will wear off. We shall always think well
   of each other, and why should we not be friends? This,
   doubtless, cannot be done without inward wounds; but such
   wounds are in God's hands, and He can cure them.

   I know what your first feelings will be on reading this
   letter; but do not answer it in obedience to first
   feelings. Think over it, think of your father, and all you
   owe him, of your old name, your old family, and of what
   the world expects from you. [Mary was forced to put her
   hand to her eyes, to save her paper from her falling
   tears, as she found herself thus repeating, nearly word
   for word, the arguments that had been used by Lady
   Arabella.] Think of these things, coolly, if you can, but,
   at any rate, without passion: and then let me have one
   word in answer. One word will suffice.

   I have but to add this: do not allow yourself to think
   that my heart will ever reproach you. It cannot reproach
   you for doing that which I myself suggest. [Mary's logic
   in this was very false; but she was not herself aware of
   it.] I will never reproach you either in word or thought;
   and as for all others, it seems to me that the world
   agrees that we have hitherto been wrong. The world, I
   hope, will be satisfied when we have obeyed it.

   God bless you, dearest Frank! I shall never call you
   so again; but it would be a pretence were I to write
   otherwise in this letter. Think of this, and then let me
   have one line.

   Your affectionate friend,

   MARY THORNE.

   P.S.--Of course I cannot be at dear Beatrice's marriage;
   but when they come back to the parsonage, I shall see her.
   I am sure they will both be happy, because they are so
   good. I need hardly say that I shall think of them on
   their wedding day.

When she had finished her letter, she addressed it plainly, in her own somewhat bold handwriting,
to Francis N. Gresham, Jun., Esq., and then took it herself to the little village post-office.
There should be nothing underhand about her correspondence: all the Greshamsbury world should
know of it--that world of which she had spoken in her letter--if that world so pleased. Having
put her penny label on it, she handed it, with an open brow and an unembarrassed face, to the
baker's wife, who was Her Majesty's postmistress at Greshamsbury; and, having so finished her
work, she returned to see the table prepared for her uncle's dinner. "I will say nothing to
him," said she to herself, "till I get the answer. He will not talk to me about it, so why
should I trouble him?"

CHAPTER XLIII

The Race of Scatcherd Becomes Extinct

It will not be imagined, at any rate by feminine readers, that Mary's letter was written off
at once, without alterations and changes, or the necessity for a fair copy. Letters from one
young lady to another are doubtless written in this manner, and even with them it might sometimes
be better if more patience had been taken; but with Mary's first letter to her lover--her first
love-letter, if love-letter it can be called--much more care was used. It was copied and re-copied,
and when she returned from posting it, it was read and re-read.

"It is very cold," she said to herself; "he will think I have no heart, that I have never loved
him!" And then she all but resolved to run down to the baker's wife, and get back her letter,
that she might alter it. "But it will be better so," she said again. "If I touched his feelings
now, he would never bring himself to leave me. It is right that I should be cold to him. I
should be false to myself if I tried to move his love--I, who have nothing to give him in return
for it." And so she made no further visit to the post-office, and the letter went on its way.

We will now follow its fortunes for a short while, and explain how it was that Mary received
no answer for a week; a week, it may well be imagined, of terrible suspense to her. When she
took it to the post-office, she doubtless thought that the baker's wife had nothing to do but
to send it up to the house at Greshamsbury, and that Frank would receive it that evening, or,
at latest, early on the following morning. But this was by no means so. The epistle was posted
on a Friday afternoon, and it behoved the baker's wife to send it into Silverbridge--Silverbridge
being the post-town--so that all due formalities, as ordered by the Queen's Government, might
there be perfected. Now, unfortunately, the post-boy had taken his departure before Mary reached
the shop, and it was not, therefore, dispatched till Saturday. Sunday was always a dies non
with the Greshamsbury Mercury, and, consequently, Frank's letter was not delivered at the house
till Monday morning; at which time Mary had for two long days been waiting with weary heart
for the expected answer.

Now Frank had on that morning gone up to London by the early train, with his future brother-in-law,
Mr Oriel. In order to accomplish this, they had left Greshamsbury for Barchester exactly as
the postboy was leaving Silverbridge for Greshamsbury.

"I should like to wait for my letters," Mr Oriel had said, when the journey was being discussed.

"Nonsense," Frank had answered. "Who ever got a letter that was worth waiting for?" and so
Mary was doomed to a week of misery.

When the post-bag arrived at the house on Monday morning, it was opened as usual by the squire
himself at the breakfast-table. "Here is a letter for Frank," said he, "posted in the village.
You had better send it to him:" and he threw the letter across the table to Beatrice.

"It's from Mary," said Beatrice, out loud, taking the letter up and examining the address.
And having said so, she repented what she had done, as she looked first at her father and then
at her mother.

A cloud came over the squire's brow as for a minute he went on turning over the letters and
newspapers. "Oh, from Mary Thorne, is it?" he said. "Well, you had better send it to him."

"Frank said that if any letters came they were to be kept," said his sister Sophy. "He told
me so particularly. I don't think he likes having letters sent after him."

"You had better send that one," said the squire.

"Mr Oriel is to have all his letters addressed to Long's Hotel, Bond Street, and this one can
very well be sent with them," said Beatrice, who knew all about it, and intended herself to
make a free use of the address.

"Yes, you had better send it," said the squire; and then nothing further was said at the table.
But Lady Arabella, though she said nothing, had not failed to mark what had passed. Had she
asked for the letter before the squire, he would probably have taken possession of it himself;
but as soon as she was alone with Beatrice, she did demand it. "I shall be writing to Frank
myself," she said, "and will send it to him." And so, Beatrice, with a heavy heart, gave it up.

The letter lay before Lady Arabella's eyes all that day, and many a wistful glance was cast
at it. She turned it over and over, and much she desired to know its contents; but she did
not dare to break the seal of her son's letter. All that day it lay upon her desk, and all
the next, for she could hardly bring herself to part with it; but on the Wednesday it was sent--sent
with these lines from herself:--

"Dearest, dearest Frank, I send you a letter which has come by the post from Mary Thorne. I
do not know what it may contain; but before you correspond with her, pray, pray think of what
I said to you. For my sake, for your father's, for your own, pray think of it."

That was all, but it was enough to make her word to Beatrice true. She did send it to Frank
enclosed in a letter from herself. We must reserve to the next chapter what had taken place
between Frank and his mother; but, for the present, we will return to the doctor's house.

Mary said not a word to him about the letter; but, keeping silent on the subject, she felt
wretchedly estranged from him. "Is anything the matter, Mary?" he said to her on the Sunday
afternoon.

"No, uncle," she answered, turning away her head to hide her tears.

"Ah, but there is something; what is it, dearest?"

"Nothing--that is, nothing that one can talk about."

"What Mary! Be unhappy and not to talk about it to me? That's something new, is it not?"

"One has presentiments sometimes, and is unhappy without knowing why. Besides, you know--"

"I know! What do I know? Do I know anything that will make my pet happier?" and he took her
in his arms as they sat together on the sofa. Her tears were now falling fast, and she no longer
made an effort to hide them. "Speak to me, Mary; this is more than a presentiment. What is it?"

"Oh, uncle--"

"Come, love, speak to me; tell me why you are grieving."

"Oh, uncle, why have you not spoken to me? Why have you not told me what to do? Why have you
not advised me? Why are you always so silent?"

"Silent about what?"

"You know, uncle, you know; silent about him; silent about Frank."

Why, indeed? What was he to say to this? It was true that he had never counselled her; never
shown her what course she should take; had never even spoken to her about her lover. And it
was equally true that he was not now prepared to do so, even in answer to such an appeal as
this. He had a hope, a strong hope, more than a hope, that Mary's love would yet be happy;
but he could not express or explain his hope; nor could he even acknowledge to himself a wish
that would seem to be based on the death of him whose life he was bound, if possible, to preserve.

