SELECTED ENGLISH LETTERS

(XV-XIX CENTURIES)

ARRANGED BY

M. DUCKITT & H. WRAGG

1913.

PREFACE

This anthology has been compiled with rather mixed motives. First, 'all for our delight'--a
rule that editors sometimes observe, and occasionally acknowledge; then, with the desire to
interest as large a section of the public as may be. Here is a medley of gay, grave, frivolous,
homely, religious, sociable, refined, philosophic, and feminine,--something for every mood,
and for the proper study of mankind. We do not hope to satisfy all critics, but we do not anticipate
that we shall please none. Our difficulty has been that of choice. Many pleasant companions
we have had to pass by; to strike from our list many excellent letters. Those that remain are
intended to present as complete a portrait of the writer as space permits. Occasionally it
was some feature of the age, some nicety of manners, some contrast in point of view, that obtained
inclusion.

Into such an anthology the ordinary reader prefers to dip at random, looking for old friends
or new faces, and has his reward. But if he is resolute to read letters in chronological order,
he will also, we hope, find in our selection some trace of the development of the Epistolary
art, as, rising through earlier naiveties and formalities to the grace and bel air of the great
Augustans, it slides into the freer, if less dignified, utterance of an age which, startled
by cries of 'Equality' at its birth, has concerned itself less with form than with individuality
and sincerity of expression.

Three letters are included of which the originals were penned in Latin. In a few cases the
spelling and punctuation have been modernized.

Our best thanks are due to Mr. J.C. Smith, whose kind criticism and inspiring suggestions have
been of inestimable service to us in the preparation of this work.

M.D. H.W.

CONTENTS

SIR THOMAS MORE, 1478-1535-- To Margaret Roper. 'Wyth a cole' from prison.

MARGARET ROPER, 1505-1544-- To Sir Thomas More. Reply to the above.

ROGER ASCHAM, 1515-1568-- To Lady Jane Grey. A most accomplished maiden. To Lady Clarke. An
offer of assistance.

FRANCIS BACON, 1561-1626-- To Sir Thomas Bodley. With a copy of his book.

SIR THOMAS BROWNE, 1605-1682-- To his son Thomas. Fatherly commendations. To his son Edward.
Centenarians.

JOHN MILTON, 1608-1674-- To a Cambridge friend. The choice of a profession. To Leonard Philaras.
The blind poet.

JOHN EVELYN, 1620-1706-- To Samuel Pepys. In retirement at Wotton. To the same. An old man's
occupations.

DAME DOROTHY BROWNE, 1621-1685-- To her daughter in London. Three interesting postscripts.

GEORGE, LORD BERKELEY, 1628-1698-- To Samuel Pepys. Honourable acquittal.

DOROTHY OSBORNE, 1628-1698-- To Sir William Temple. Passing the time. To the same. Another
pretender. To the same. A disappointing preacher. To the same. The ideal husband. To the same.
The growth of friendship. To the same. Wilful woman.

KATHARINE PHILIPS, 1631-1664-- To the Honourable Berenice. Yielding to opinion.

JOHN LOCKE, 1632-1704-- To William Molyneux. A philosopher's confidences. To Dr. Molyneux.
True friendship.

SAMUEL PEPYS, 1633-1703-- To George, Lord Berkeley. An explanation. To Mrs. Steward. A wedding
in the City. To John Evelyn. Reply to an old friend.

JONATHAN SWIFT, 1667-1745-- To Stella. The Dean at home. To Lord Treasurer Oxford. The Dean
makes his bow. To Dr. Sheridan. News from the country. To Alexander Pope. Mostly about Gulliver.
To John Gay. Enquiries into Mr. Gay's pursuits.

JOSEPH ADDISON, 1672-1719-- To Alexander Pope. Translation of Homer. To Mr. Secretary Craggs.
A bequest.

SIR RICHARD STEELE, 1672-1729-- To Mary Scurlock. An explicit declaration. To the same. A pleasing
transport. To the same. A lover betrays himself. To his wife. He proposes an outing. To the
same. His greatest affliction. To the same. Four characteristic notes. To the same. The natural
slave of beauty.

JOHN GAY, 1685-1732-- To Jonathan Swift. Concerning Gulliver.

ALEXANDER POPE, 1688-1744-- To William Wycherley. Dryden and his critics. To Joseph Addison.
A few thoughts from a rambling head. To Jonathan Swift. Friends to posterity. To the same.
A farming friend, and The Dunciad. To the same. An invitation to England.

SAMUEL RICHARDSON, 1689-1761-- To Miss Mulso. A discussion on love.

LADY MARY WORTLEY MONTAGU, 1689-1762-- To the Countess of Mar. The Viennese court. To Miss
Sarah Chiswell. Ingrafting for small-pox. To the Countess of Bristol. The Grand Signior a slave.
To the Countess of Mar. The Grand Vizier's lady. To the Countess of Bute. Her grand-daughter's
education. To the same. Fielding and Steele.

PHILIP DORMER STANHOPE, EARL OF CHESTERFIELD, 1694-1773-- To his son. Dancing. To the same.
A good enunciation. To the same. Keeping accounts. To the same. A father's example. To the
same. Public speaking. To the same. The new Earl of Chatham.

SAMUEL JOHNSON, 1709-1784-- To Bonnet Langton. Postponement of a visit. To Miss Porter. A mother's
death. To Joseph Baretti. A letter of counsel. To Mrs. Thrale. Travel in Scotland. To the Earl
of Chesterfield. Patronage. To James Boswell. A silent friend. To Mrs. Thrale. A great man's
fortitude.

LAURENCE STERNE, 1713-1768-- To Miss Lumley. The disconsolate lover. To David Garrick. Le Chevalier
Shandy. To Mr. Foley. An adventure on the road.

THOMAS GRAY, 1716-1771-- To Richard West. Scenery at Tivoli. To the same. A poet's melancholy.
To Horace Walpole. The fate of Selima. To the same. Publication of the Elegy. To the same.
At Burnham. To the Rev. William Mason. The Laureateship. To Dr. Wharton. A holiday in Kent.

HORACE WALPOLE, 1717-1797-- To Richard West. Floods in the Arno. To Richard Bentley. Pictures,
and Garrick. To Lord Lyttelton. Gray's Odes. To George Montagu. At Lady Suffolk's. To Lady
Hervey. A quiet life. To the Rev. William Cole. Gray's death. To the Rev. William Mason. The
quarrel with Gray. To the Countess of Upper-Ossory. Fashionable intelligence. To the Rev. William
Cole. Antiquaries and authors. To the Miss Berrys. Their first meeting.

OLIVER GOLDSMITH, 1728-1774-- To his mother. At Cork. To Robert Bryanton. In Scotland. To his
uncle Contarine. In Holland. To his brother Henry. Family matters.

WILLIAM COWPER, 1731-1800-- To the Rev. John Newton. Escapade of Puss. To the Rev. William
Unwin. A laugh that hurts nobody. To the Rev. John Newton. Village politicians. To the same.
Village justice. To the same. A candidate's visit. To Lady Hesketh. An acquaintance reopened.
To the same. The kindliness of thanks. To the same. Arrival of the desk. To the same. Anticipations
of a visit. To the same. Commissions and thanks. To Mrs. Bodham. His mother's portrait.

EDMUND BURKE, 1729-1797-- To Matthew Smith. First impressions of London. To James Barry. A
friend's infirmities. To Lord Auckland. An old stag at bay. To Mary Leadbeater. His last letter.

EDWARD GIBBON, 1737-1794-- To Mrs. Porten. His daily life. To Lord Sheffield. A great work.

FRANCES D'ARBLAY, 1752-1840-- To Susan Burney. An excited Unknown. To Samuel Crisp. Mrs. Thrale
and Dr. Johnson. To Mrs. Lock. A royal commission.

GEORGE CRABBE, 1754-1832-- To Mary Leadbeater. The only survivors. To the same. Comparisons.

WILLIAM BLAKE, 1757-1827-- To John Flaxman. Friends 'from eternity'. To Thomas Butts. Trouble
in the path. To the same. The wonderful poem. To the same. The poet and William Hayley.

MARY LEADBEATER, 1758-1826-- To Edmund Burke. Reply to his last letter. To George Crabbe. She
writes to remind him.

ROBERT BURNS, 1759-1796-- To Miss Chalmers. Marriage with Jean. To Mr. R. Ainslie. A gauger.
To Francis Grose. Witch tales.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH, 1770-1850-- To Sir George Beaumont. A brother's character. To Walter Scott.
Dryden. To Lady Beaumont. The destiny of his poems. To Sir George Beaumont. The language of poetry.

SIR WALTER SCOTT, 1771-1832-- To his mother. Marriage with Miss Carpenter. To Miss Seward.
The Lay of the Last Minstrel. To Lady Louisa Stuart. An amiable blue-stocking. To Robert Southey.
Congratulations. To J.B.S. Morritt. A small anonymous sort of a novel. To the same. Acceptance
of a baronetcy. To Lord Montagu. Prince Leopold's visit. To Daniel Terry. Progress at Abbotsford.
To J.B.S. Morritt. A brave face to the world. To Maria Edgeworth. Time's revenges.

SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE, 1772-1834-- To Charles Lamb. A sympathetic reply. To Joseph Cottle.
Literary adventurers. To Josiah Wade. A public example. To Thomas Allsop. Himself and his detractors.
To the same. The Great Work described. To the same. Reminiscences.

ROBERT SOUTHEY, 1774-1843-- To Joseph Cottle. Question of copyrights. To John May. Waterloo.
To Henry Taylor. Anastasius Hope. To Edward Moxon. Recollections of the Lambs.

CHARLES LAMB, 1775-1834-- To Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Temporary frenzy. To the same. A friend
in need. To the same. The tragedy. To William Wordsworth. The delights of London. To Thomas
Manning. At the Lakes. To the same. Dissuasion from Tartary. To Mrs. Wordsworth. Friends' importunities.
To Samuel Taylor Coleridge. The famous pigling. To Bernard Barton. A blessing in disguise.
To the same. A cold.

WILLIAM HAZLITT, 1778-1830-- To Miss Sarah Stoddart. A love-letter. To his son. Marriage, and
the choice of a profession. To Charles Cowden Clarke. The Life of Napoleon.

LEIGH HUNT, 1784-1859-- To Joseph Severn. A belated letter. To Percy Bysshe Shelley. Outpourings
of gratitude. To Horace Smith. Shelley's death. To Mrs. Procter. Accepting an invitation. To
a friend. Offence and punishment.

GEORGE GORDON NOEL, LORD BYRON, 1788-1824-- To Mr. Hodgson. Travel in Portugal. To Thomas Moore.
Announces his engagement. To John Murray. No bid for sweet voices. To the same. The cemetery
at Bologna. To the same. In rebellious mood. To Percy Bysshe Shelley. A trio of poets. To Lady
Byron. A plain statement of facts. To Mr. Barff. Sympathy with the Greeks.

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY, 1792-1822-- To T.J. Hogg. His first marriage. To William Godwin. An introduction.
To Thomas Hookham. A subscription for Hunt. To Mr. Ollier. An article by Southey. To Mrs. Hunt.
Keats and some others. To Leigh Hunt. A literary collaboration.

JOHN KEATS, 1795-1821-- To John Hamilton Reynolds. Burns's cottage. To Richard Woodhouse. The
poetic character. To Percy Bysshe Shelley. Returning advice. To Charles Brown. A despairing cry.

THOMAS HOOD, 1799-1845-- To Charles Dickens. American Notes. To the Manchester Athenaeum. The
uses of literature. To Dr. Moir. A humourist to the last. To Sir Robert Peel. A farewell letter.

ROBERT BROWNING, 1812-1889, and ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING, 1806-1861-- To Leigh Hunt. A joint
epistle.

CHARLOTTE BRONTË, 1816-1855-- To a friend. Trials of a governess. To William Wordsworth. Thanks
for advice. To a friend. At school abroad. To a friend. Curates to tea. To George Henry Lewes.
Herself and Miss Austen. To the same. The argument continued. To a friend. Illness and death
of Emily Brontë. To Mr. G. Smith. Thackeray and Esmond To the same. Esmond again. I beseche
hym make you all mery in the hope of heaven. And such thynges as I somewhat longed to talke
with you all, concerning the worlde to come, our Lord put theim into your myndes, as I trust
he dothe, and better to, by his holy spirite: who blesse you and preserve you all. Written
wyth a cole by your tender loving father, who in his pore prayers forgetteth none of you all,
nor your babes, nor your nurses, nor your good husbandes, nor your good husbandes shrewde wyves,
nor your fathers shrewde wyfe neither, nor our other frendes. And thus fare ye hartely well
for lack of paper.

THOMAS MORE, knight.

Our Lorde kepe me continuallye true, faithfull and playne, to the contrarye whereof I beseche
hym hartelye never to suffer me live. For as for longe life (as I have often tolde the Megge)
I neyther looke for, nor long for, but am well content to goe, yf God call me hence to morowe.
And I thanke our lorde, I knowe no person living, that I woulde had one philippe for my sake:
of whiche minde I am more gladde then of all the worlde.

Recommend me to your shrewde wil, and mine other sonnes, and to John Harris my frende, and
your selfe knoweth to whome els, and to my shrewde wife above all, and God preserve you all
and make and kepe you his servantes all.

MARGARET ROPER

1505-1544

TO SIR THOMAS MORE

Reply to the above

[1534.]

Myne owne moste entierelye beloved father, I thynke my self never hable to geve you sufficiente
thankes, for the inestimable coumforte my poore hearte received in the readyng of youre moste
lovynge and godlye letter, representing to me, the cleare shynyng bryghtenesse of youre soule,
the pure temple of the holy spirite of God, which I doubte not shall perpetuallye reste in
you and you in hym. Father, if all the worlde hadde bene geven to me, as I be saved it hadde
bene a small pleasure, in comparison of the pleasure I conceived of the treasure of youre letter,
whiche thoughe it were written with a cole, is woorthye in myne opinion to be wrytten in letters
of golde. Father, what moved them to shytte you uppe againe, we can nothynge heare. But surelye
I coniecture that when they considered that you wer of so temperate mind, that you were contented
to abyde there all your lyfe with suche libertie, they thought it wer never possible to enclyne
you to theyr will, excepte it were by restrayning you from the church, and the companye of
my good mother youre deare wyfe and us youre chyldren and bedesfolke. But father this chaunce
was not straunge to you. For I shal not forgeat howe you tolde us when we were with you in
the gardeyne, that these thinges wer like ynoughe to chaunce you shortlye after. Father I have
manye tymes rehearsed to myne owne coumfort and dyvers others, your fashyon and wordes ye hadde
to us when we were laste with you: for which I trust by the grace of god to be the better while
I live, and when I am departed oute of this frayle life, which I praye God I maye passe and
ende in his true obedient service, after the wholesome counsayle and fruitful exaumple of living
I have had (good father) of you, whom I pray god geve me grace to folowe: which I shal the
better thorow the assistaunce of your devoute prayers, the speciall staye of my frayltie. Father
I am sory I have no lenger laysure at this time to talke with you, the chief comfort of my
life, I trust to have occasion to write again shortly. I trust I have your daily prayer and
blessing.

Your most loving obedient daughter and bedeswoma Margaret Roper, which daily and howrely is
boude to pray for you, for whom she prayeth in this wise, that our lord of his infinite mercye
geve you of hys hevenly comfort, and so to assist you with hys speciall grace, that ye never
in any thing declyne from hys blessed will, but live and dye his true obedient servaunt. Amen.

Most Illustrious Lady,

In this long travel of mine, I have passed over wide tracts of country, and seen the largest
cities, I have studied the customs, institutes, laws, and religion of many men and diverse
nations, with as much diligence as I was able: but in all this variety of subjects, nothing
has caused in me so much wonder as my having fallen upon you last summer, a maiden of noble
birth, and that too in the absence of your tutor, in the hall of your most noble family, and
at a time when others, both men and women, give themselves up to hunting and pleasures, you,
a divine maiden, reading carefully in Greek the Phaedo of the divine Plato; and happier in
being so occupied than because you derive your birth, both on your father's side, and on your
mother's, from kings and queens! Go on then, most accomplished maiden, to bring honour on your
country, happiness on your parents, glory to yourself, credit to your tutor, congratulation
to all your friends, and the greatest admiration to all strangers!

O happy Elmar in having such a pupil, and happier still you, in having such a tutor ... I ask
two things of you, my dear Elmar, for I suppose you will read this letter, that you will persuade
the Lady Jane to write me a letter in Greek as soon as possible; for she promised she would
do so ... I have also lately written to John Sturm, and told him that she had promised. Take
care that I get a letter soon from her as well as from you. It is a long way for letters to
come, but John Hales will be a most convenient letter-carrier and bring them safely....

To LADY CLARKE

An offer of assistance

[London], 15 Jan. 1554.

Your remarkable love of virtue and zeal for learning, most illustrious lady, joined with such
talents and perseverance, are worthy of great praise in themselves, and greater still because
you are a woman, but greatest of all because you are a lady of the court; where there are many
other occupations for ladies, besides learning, and many other pleasures besides the practice
of the virtues. This double praise is further enhanced by the two patterns that you have proposed
to yourself to follow, the one furnished you by the court, the other by your family. I mean
our illustrious queen Mary, and your noble grandfather, Thomas More--a man whose virtues go
to raise England above all other nations....

I am led to write thus not altogether by my admiration of you, but partly by my own wish and
more from the nature of my own office. It was I who was invited some years ago from the University
of Cambridge by your mother, Margaret Roper--a lady worthy of her great father, and of you
her daughter--to the house of your kinsman, Lord Giles Alington, to teach you and her other
children the Greek and Latin tongues; but at that time no offers could induce me to leave the
University. It is sweet to me to bear in mind this request of your mother's, and I now not
only remind you thereof, but would offer you, now that I am at court, if not to fulfil her
wishes, yet to do my best to fulfil them, were it not that you have so much learning in yourself,
and also the aid of those two learned men, Cole and Christopherson, so that you need no help
from me, unless in their absence you make use of my assistance, and if you like, abuse it.

I write thus not because of any talents I possess (for I know they are very small) but because
of my will (which I know is very great), and because of the opportunity long wished for and
now granted me. For by favour of that great bishop the Lord Stephen of Winchester, I have been
fetched away from the University to serve our illustrious queen at court, and that too in such
a post, that I can there follow the same mode of life for the discharge of my duties as I did
at the University for study. My office is to write Latin letters for the queen, and I hope
I shall fulfil that office, if not with ability, yet faithfully, diligently, and unblameably
... Farewell, most accomplished lady! My labours (if I may so term that which was the comfort
of my other labours) I have dedicated to the King; desirous, if there be any good in them,
it may be as the fat of a sacrifice, incensed to his honour: and the second copy I have sent
unto you, not only in good affection, but in a kind of congruity, in regard of your great and
rare desert of learning. For books are the shrines where the saint is, or is believed to be;
and you having built an Ark to save learning from deluge, deserve propriety in any new instrument
or engine, whereby learning should be improved or advanced. I am glad you like Lucan so well.
I wish more military men could read him; in this passage you mention, there are noble straynes;
and such as may well affect generous minds. Butt I hope you are more taken with the verses
then the subject, and rather embrace the expression then the example. And this I the rather
hint unto you, because the like, though in another waye, is sometimes practised in the king's
shipps, when, in desperate cases, they blowe up the same. For though I know you are sober and
considerative, yet knowing you also to be of great resolution; and having also heard from ocular
testimonies with what vndaunted and persevering courage you have demeaned yourself in great
difficulties; and knowing your captaine to bee a stout and resolute man; and with all the cordiall
friendshippe that is between you; I cannot omitt my earnest prayers vnto God to deliver you
from such a temptation. Hee that goes to warre must patiently submitt vnto the various accidents
thereof. To bee made prisoner by an vnequall and overruling power, after a due resistance,
is no disparagement; butt upon a carelesse surprizall or faynt opposition; and you have so
good a memorie that you cannot forgett many examples thereof, even of the worthiest commanders
in your beloved Plutark. God hath given you a stout, butt a generous and mercifull heart withall;
and in all your life you could never behold any person in miserie butt with compassion and
relief; which hath been notable in you from a child: so have you layd up a good foundation
for God's mercy; and, if such a disaster should happen, Hee will, without doubt, mercifully
remember you. How euer, let God that brought you in the world in his owne good time, lead you
through it; and in his owne season bring you out of it; and without such wayes as are displeasing
vnto him. When you are at Cales, see if you can get a box of the Jesuits' powder at easier
rate, and bring it in the bark, not in powder. I am glad you haue receaued the bill of exchange
for Cales; if you should find occasion to make vse thereof. Enquire farther at Tangier of the
minerall water you told mee, which was neere the towne, and whereof many made use. Take notice
of such plants as you meet with, either upon the Spanish or African coast; and if you knowe
them not, putt some leaves into a booke, though carelessely, and not with that neatenesse as
in your booke at Norwich. Enquire after any one who hath been at Fez; and learne what you can
of the present state of that place, which hath been so famous in the description of Leo and
others. The mercifull providence of God go with you. Impellant animae lintea Thraciae.

TO HIS SON EDWARD

Centenarians

15 Dec. [1679.]

DEARE SONNE,

Some thinck that great age superannuates persons from the vse of physicall meanes, or that
at a hundred yeares of age 'tis either a folly or a shame to vse meanes to liue longer, and
yet I haue knowne many send to mee for their seuerall troubles at a hundred yeares of age,
and this day a poore woeman being a hundred and three yeares and a weeke old sent to mee to
giue her some ease of the colick. The macrobii and long liuers which I haue knowne heere haue
been of the meaner and poorer sort of people. Tho. Parrot was butt a meane or rather poore
man. Your brother Thomas gaue two pence a weeke to John More, a scauenger, who dyed in the
hundred and second yeare of his life; and 'twas taken the more notice of that the father of
Sir John Shawe, who marryed my Lady Killmorey, and liueth in London, I say that his father,
who had been a vintner, liued a hundred and two yeares, or neere it, and dyed about a yeere
agoe. God send us to number our dayes and fitt ourselves for a better world. Which because
I am persuaded you do to no other purpose than out of a true desire that God should be honoured
in every one, I therefore think myself bound, though unasked, to give you account, as oft as
occasion is, of this my tardy moving, according to the precept of my conscience, which I firmly
trust is not without God. Yet now I will not strain for any set apology, but only refer myself
to what my mind shall have at any time to declare herself at her best ease.

But if you think, as you said, that too much love of learning is in fault, and that I have
given up myself to dream away my years in the arms of studious retirement, like Endymion with
the moon, as the tale of Latmus goes; yet consider that if it were no more but the mere love
of learning--whether it proceed from a principle bad, good, or natural--it could not have held
out thus long against so strong opposition on the other side of every kind. Or, if it be to
be thought a natural proneness, there is against that a much more potent inclination inbred,
which about this time of a man's life solicits most--the desire of house and family of his
own; to which nothing is esteemed more helpful than the early entering into credible employment,
and nothing more hindering than this affected solitariness. Nature, therefore, would presently
work the more prevalent way, if there were nothing but this inferior bent of herself to restrain
her. Lastly, the love of learning, as it is the pursuit of something good, it would sooner
follow the more excellent and supreme good known and presented, and so be quickly diverted
from the empty and fantastic chase of shadows and notions, to the solid good flowing from due
and timely obedience to that command in the Gospel set out by the terrible seasing of him that
hid the talent. And here I am come to a stream-head, copious enough to disburden itself, like
Nilus, at seven mouths into an ocean.

By this I believe you may well repent of having made mention at all of this matter; for, if
I have not all this while won you to this, I have certainly wearied you of it. This, therefore,
alone may be a sufficient reason for me to keep me as I am, lest having thus tired you singly,
I should deal worse with, a whole congregation, and spoil all the patience of a parish; for
I myself do not only see my own tediousness, but now grow offended with it, that has hindered
me thus long from coming to the last and best period of my letter, and that which must now
chiefly work my pardon, that I am your true and unfeigned friend.

TO LEONARD PHILARAS, THE ATHENIAN

The blind poet[1]

Westminster, 28 Sept. 1654.

I have always been devotedly attached to the literature of Greece, and particularly to that
of your Athens; and have never ceased to cherish the persuasion that that city would one day
make me ample recompense for the warmth of my regard. The ancient genius of your renowned country
has favoured the completion of my prophecy in presenting me with your friendship and esteem.
Though I was known to you only by my writings, and we were removed to such a distance from
each other, you most courteously addressed me by letter; and when you unexpectedly came to
London, and saw me who could no longer see, my affliction, which causes none to regard me with
greater admiration, and perhaps many even with feelings of contempt, excited your tenderest
sympathy and concern. You would not suffer me to abandon the hope of recovering my sight; and
informed me you had an intimate friend at Paris, Dr. Thevenot, who was particularly celebrated
in disorders of the eyes, whom you would consult about mine, if I would enable you to lay before
him the causes and the symptoms of the complaint. I will do what you desire, lest I should
seem to reject that aid which perhaps may be offered me by Heaven. It is now, I think, about
ten years since I perceived my vision to grow weak and dull; and at the same time I was troubled
with pain in my kidneys and bowels, accompanied with flatulency. In the morning, if I began
to read, as was my custom, my eyes instantly ached intensely, but were refreshed after a little
corporeal exercise. The candle which I looked at, seemed as it were encircled with a rainbow.
Not long after the sight in the left part of the left eye (which I lost some years before the
other) became quite obscured, and prevented me from discerning any object on that side. The
sight in my other eye has now been gradually and sensibly vanishing away for about three years;
some months before it had entirely perished, though I stood motionless, everything which I
looked at seemed in motion to and fro. A stiff cloudy vapour seemed to have settled on my forehead
and temples, which usually occasions a sort of somnolent pressure upon my eyes, and particularly
from dinner till the evening. So that I often recollect what is said of the poet Phineas in
the Argonautics:

  A stupor deep his cloudy temples bound,
  And when he walked he seemed as whirling round,
  Or in a feeble trance he speechless lay.

I ought not to omit that while I had any sight left, as soon as I lay down on my bed and turned
on either side, a flood of light used to gush from my closed eyelids. Then, as my sight became
daily more impaired, the colours became more faint and were emitted with a certain inward crackling
sound; but at present, every species of illumination being, as it were, extinguished, there
is diffused around me nothing but darkness, or darkness mingled and streaked with an ashy brown.
Yet the darkness in which I am perpetually immersed seems always, both by night and day, to
approach nearer to white than black; and when the eye is rolling in its socket, it admits a
little particle of light, as through a chink. And though your physician may kindle a small
ray of hope, yet I make up my mind to the malady as quite incurable; and I often reflect, that
as the wise man admonishes, days of darkness are destined to each of us, the darkness which
I experience, less oppressive than that of the tomb, is, owing to the singular goodness of
the Deity, passed amid the pursuits of literature and the cheering salutations of friendship.
While He so tenderly provides for me, while He so graciously leads me by the hand, and conducts
me on the way, I will, since it is His pleasure, rather rejoice than repine at being blind.
And, my dear Philaras, whatever may be the event, I wish you adieu with no less courage and
composure than if I had the eyes of a lynx.

I have been philosophizing and world-despising in the solitudes of this place, whither I am
retired to pass and mourn the absence of my worthiest friend. Here is wood and water, meadows
and mountains, the Dryads and Hamadryads; but here's no Mr. Pepys, no Dr. Gale. Nothing of
all the cheer in the parlour that I taste; all's insipid, and all will be so to me, till I
see and enjoy you again. I long to know what you do, and what you think, because I am certain
you do both what is worthy the knowing and imitation. On Monday next will Mr. Bentley resume
his lecture, I think, at Bow Church: I fear I shall hardly get through this wilderness by that
time. Pray give him your wonted confidence if you can, and tell him how unhappily I am entangled.
I hope, however, to get home within this fortnight, and about the end of October to my hyemation
in Dover Street. My son is gone with the Lord Lieutenant, and our new relation, Sir Cyril Wych,
into Ireland: I look they should return wondrous statesmen, or else they had as well have stayed
at home. I am here with Boccalini, and Erasmus's Praise of Folly, and look down upon the world
with wondrous contempt, when I consider for what we keep such a mighty bustle. O fortunate
Mr. Pepys! who knows, possesses, and enjoys all that's worth the seeking after. Let me live
among your inclinations, and I shall be happy.

To THE SAME

An old man's occupations

Wotton, 22 July, 1700.

I could no longer suffer this old servant of mine to pass and repass so near Clapham without
a particular account of your health and all your happy family. You will now inquire what I
do here? Why, as the patriarchs of old, I pass the days in the fields, among horses and oxen,
sheep, cows, bulls, and sows, et cetera pecora campi. We have, thank God! finished our hay
harvest prosperously. I am looking after my hinds, providing carriage and tackle against reaping
time and sowing. What shall I say more? Venio ad voluptates agricolarum, which Cicero, you
know, reckons amongst the most becoming diversions of old age; and so I render it. This without:
now within doors, never was any matron more busy than my wife, disposing of our plain country
furniture for a naked old extravagant house, suitable to our employments. She has a dairy,
and distaffs, for lac, linum, et lanam, and is become a very Sabine. But can you thus hold
out? Will my friend say; is philosophy, Gresham College, and the example of Mr. Pepys, and
agreeable conversation of York Buildings, quite forgotten and abandoned? No, no! Naturam expellas
furca tamen usque recurret. Know I have been ranging of no fewer than thirty large cases of
books, destined for a competent standing library, during four or five days wholly destitute
of my young coadjutor, who, upon some pretence of being much engaged in the mathematics, and
desiring he may continue his course at Oxford till the beginning of August, I have wholly left
it to him. You will now suspect something by this disordered hand; truly I was too happy in
these little domestic affairs, when, on the sudden, as I was about my books in the library,
I found myself sorely attacked with a shivering, followed by a feverish indisposition, and
a strangury, so as to have kept, not my chamber only, but my bed, till very lately, and with
just so much strength as to scribble these lines to you. Thay ar indeed very well chose things
of all sorts: and I give you many thanks for the troble you have had with them: I sent you
Tomey's scurt and long slevs of his ould cott; I hope you have them. On Mr. Felden it seemes
took it last Wadinsday, and sayd hee would deliver it him selfe. Wee dayly wish for the new
cloths; all our linen being worne out but shefts, and Tomey would give all his stock to see
his briches. I bless God wee ar all well as I hope you ar. Tomey presents his dutty, your sisters
all love and services.

[4 July.]

GOOD DAUGHTER,

I must troble you once more abought my cosen Tenoson. She would macke a manto gown of the grene
and whight silke you sent down for a peticot, but she wants two yards, and as much slit grene
sarsinat as will line it in sight. I pray send nurs to gett it and lett mee know what it com
to, and I will send you the mony. I sayes my Cossen Cradock might send it me by the choch for
she would have it as sonne as possible. I bless God wee ar all in helth, and Tomey much longing
for his briches.

[5 July.]

Tomey have received his cloues, and is much delighted, and sends you and his mother and grandmother
dutty and thanckes, and meanes to war them carfully.

GEORGE, LORD BERKELEY

1628-1698

To SAMUEL PEPYS[1]

Honourable Acquittal

Berkeley House, 23 Feb. 1677-8.

GOOD MR. PEPYS,

Though I thank you for the favour of your letter, yet I confess myself both much surprised
and troubled to receive a letter from you upon such an occasion: so is my wife, who professes
herself wholly innocent of any crime of charging you in thought, word, or deed, and hopes you
will do her that right to believe so of her. My daughter Berkeley says she expressed some trouble
that the friend she recommended had not success, and that she was told the Commissioners of
the Navy did report they had given the same recommendations of the person she proposed, as
they did of him that was accepted, for the lieutenant's place; which my daughter, supposing
to be true, wondered the more he lost the preferment: but, by the copies enclosed in your's,
it appears her Ladyship was very much misinformed. As for Mrs. Henrietta, she is extremely
troubled in saying any thing that gave you offence; and though she did not in the least intend
it, yet she begs your pardon. And now, my good friend, though I am not under any accusation,
and therefore need not say any thing to vindicate myself, yet give me leave, upon this occasion,
to assure you, that there is no person has a better opinion of you than myself, nor is more
sensible of your particular civilities to me; which I should be very glad to make a return
of when in my power to serve you: and give me leave to add further, without flattery to you,
and with great sincerity, that I believe our gracious master, His Majesty, is so fortunate
in employing you in his service, that, if he should lose you, it would be very difficult for
His Majesty to find a successor so well qualified in all respects for his service, if we consider
both your integrity, vast abilities, industry, and zealous affections for his service; and,
if His Majesty were asked the question, I will hold ten to one His Majesty declares himself
of my opinion; so will I believe all that know you, more especially our fellow-traders that
are so conversant with you and obliged by you.

This is asserted as a great truth by, Sir, your very affectionate and hearty friend and Servant.

[Footnote 1: Cf.

TO THE SAME. I told them I knew no remedy but leaving me behind them; that my looks were suitable
to my fortune though not to a feast. It is only a piece taken out of a new thing of his. The
whole is very long, and is a description of, or rather a paraphrase upon, the friendships of
David and Jonathan. 'Tis I think the best I have seen of his, and I like the subject because
it is that I would be perfect in. Adieu!

KATHARINE PHILIPS

1631-1664

ORINDA TO THE HONOURABLE BERENICE

Yielding to opinion

Priory of Cardigan, 25 June

Your Ladyship's last favour from Coll. P----'s was truly obliging, and carried so much of the
same great soul of yours, which loves to diffuse itself in expressions of friendship to me,
that it merits a great deal more acknowledgement than I am able to pay at my best condition,
and am less now when my head aches, and will give me no leave to enlarge, though I have so
much subject and reason; but really if my heart ached too, I could be sensible of a very great
kindness and condescension in thinking me worthy of your concern, though I visibly perceive
most of my letters have lost their way to your Ladyship. I beseech you be pleased first to
believe I have written every post; but, secondly, since I came, and then to enquire for them,
that they may be commended into your hands, where alone they can hope for a favourable residence;
I am very much a sharer by sympathy, in your Ladyship's satisfaction in the converse you had
in the country, and find that to that ingenious company Fortune hath been just, there being
no person fitter to receive all the admiration of persons best capable to pay them, than the
great Berenice....

And now (madam) why was that a cruel question, When will you come to Wales? 'Tis cruel to me,
I confess, that it is yet in question, but I humbly beg your Ladyship to unriddle that part
of your letter, for I cannot understand why you, madam, who have no persons alive to whom your
birth hath submitted you, and have already by your life secured to yourself the best opinion
the world can give you, should create an awe upon your own actions, from imaginary inconveniences:
Happiness, I confess, is two-faced, and one is opinion; but that opinion is certainly our own;
for it were equally ridiculous and impossible to shape our actions by others' opinions. I have
had so much (and some sad) reason to discuss this principle, that I can speak with some confidence,
That none will ever be happy, who make their happiness to consist in, or be governed by the
votes of other persons. I deny not but the approbation of wise and good persons is a very necessary
satisfaction; but to forbear innocent contentments, only because it's possible some fancies
may be so capricious as to dispute whether I should have taken them, is, in my belief, neither
better nor worse than to fast always, because there are some so superstitious in the world,
that will abstain from meat, upon some score or other, upon every day in the year, that is,
some upon some days, and others upon others, and some upon all. You know, madam, there is nothing
so various as vulgar opinion, nothing so untrue to itself. Who shall then please since none
can fix it? 'Tis heresy (this of submitting to every blast of popular extravagancy) which I
have combated in persons very dear to me; Dear madam, let them not have your authority for
a relapse, when I had almost committed them; but consider it without a bias, and give sentence
as you see cause; and in that interim put me not off (Dear madam) with those chimeras, but
tell me plainly what inconvenience is it to come? If it be one in earnest, I will submit, but
otherwise, I am so much my own friend, and my friend's friend, as not to be satisfied with
your Ladyship's taking measure of your actions by others' opinion, when I know too that the
severest could find nothing in this journey that they could condemn, but your excess of charity
to me, and that censure you have already supported with patience, and (notwithstanding my own
consciousness of no ways deserving your sufferance upon that score) I cannot beg you to recover
the reputation of your judgement in that particular, since it must be my ruin.

SIR,

You look with the eyes, and speak the language of friendship, when you make my life of much
more concern to the world than your own. I take it, as it is, for an effect of your kindness,
and so shall not accuse you of compliment; the mistakes and over-valuings of good-will being
always sincere, even when they exceed what common truth allows. This on my side I must beg
you to believe, that my life would be much more pleasant and useful to me, if you were within
my reach, that I might sometimes enjoy your conversation, and, upon twenty occasions, lay my
thoughts before you, and have the advantage of your judgement. I cannot complain that I have
not my share of friends of all ranks, and such, whose interest, assistance, affection, and
opinions too, in fit cases, I can rely on. But methinks, for all this, there is one place vacant,
that I know nobody that would so well fill as yourself; I want one near me to talk freely with,
de quolibet ente; to propose to the extravagancies that rise in my mind; one with whom I would
debate several doubts and questions, to see what was in them. Meditating by one's self, is
like digging in the mine; it often, perhaps, brings up maiden earth, which never came near
the light before; but whether it contains any metal in it, is never so well tried as in conversation
with a knowing judicious friend who carries about with him the true touchstone, which is love
of truth in a clear-thinking head. Men of parts and judgement the world usually gets hold of,
and by a great mistake (that their abilities of mind are lost, if not employed in the pursuit
of wealth or power) engages them in the ways of fortune and interest, which usually leave but
little freedom or leisure of thought for pure disinterested truth. And such who give themselves
up frankly, and in earnest to the full latitude of real knowledge, are not everywhere to be
met with. Wonder not, therefore, that I wish so much for you in my neighbourhood; I should
be too happy in a friend of your make, were you within my reach. But yet I cannot but wish
that some business would once bring you within distance; and it is a pain to me to think of
leaving the world without the happiness of seeing you.

I do not wonder that a kinsman of yours should magnify civilities that scarce deserve the name;
I know not wherein they consisted, but in being glad to see one that was in any way related
to you, and was himself a very ingenious man; either of those was a title to more than I did,
or could show him. I am sorry I have not yet had an opportunity to wait on him in London; and
I fear he should be gone before I am able to get thither. This long winter, and cold spring,
has hung very heavy upon my lungs, and they are not yet in a case to be ventured in London
air, which must be my excuse for not waiting upon him and Dr. Ashe yet.

The third edition of my essay has already, or will be speedily, in the press. But what perhaps
will seem stranger, and possibly please you better, an abridgement is now making (if it be
not already done) by one of the university of Oxford, for the use of young scholars, in the
place of the ordinary system of logic. From the acquaintance I had of the temper of that place
I did not expect to have it get much footing there. But so it is, I some time since received
a very civil letter from one, wholly a stranger to me there, concerning such a design; and
by another from him since, I conclude it near done. He seems to be an ingenious man, and he
writes sensibly about it, but I can say nothing of it till I see it; and he, of his own accord,
has offered that it shall be wholly submitted to my opinion, and disposal of it. And thus,
sir, possibly that which you once proposed may be attained to, and I was pleased with the gentleman's
design for your sake.

You are a strange man, you oblige me very much by the care you take to have it well translated,
and you thank me for complying with your offer. In my last, as I remember, I told you the reason
why it was so long before I writ, was an expectation of an answer from London, concerning something
I had to communicate to you: it was in short this; I was willing to know what my bookseller
would give for a good latin copy; he told me, at last, twenty pounds. His delay was, because
he would first have known what the translator demanded. But I forced him to make his proposal,
and so I send it to you, to make what use of it you please. He since writ me word, that a friend
of his at Oxford would, in some time, be at leisure to do it, and would undertake it. I bid
him excuse himself to him, for that it was in hands I approved of, and some part of it now
actually done. For I hope the essay (he was to show you the next week after you writ to me
last) pleased you. Think it not a compliment, that I desire you to make what alterations you
think fit. One thing particularly you will oblige me and the world in, and that is, in paring
off some of the superfluous repetitions, which I left in for the sake of illiterate men, and
the softer sex, not used to abstract notions and reasonings. But much of this reasoning will
be out of doors in a latin translation. I refer all to your judgement, and so am secure it
will be done as is best.

What I shall add concerning enthusiasm, I guess, will very much agree with your thoughts, since
yours jump so right with mine, about the place where it is to come in, I having designed it
for chap. 18, lib. iv, as a false principle of reasoning often made use of. But, to give an
historical account of the various ravings men have embraced for religion, would, I fear, be
besides my purpose, and be enough to make an huge volume.

My opinion of P. Malebranche agrees perfectly with yours. What I have writ concerning 'seeing
all things in God', would make a little treatise of itself. But I have not quite gone through
it, for fear I should by somebody or other be tempted to print it. For I love not controversies,
and have a personal kindness for the author. When I have the happiness to see you, we will
consider it together, and you shall dispose of it.

I think I shall make some other additions to be put into your latin translation, and particularly
concerning the 'connection of ideas', which has not, that I know, been hitherto considered,
and has, I guess, a greater influence upon our minds than is usually taken notice of. Thus,
you see, I make you the confident of my reveries; you would be troubled with a great many more
of them, were you nearer.

TO DR. MOLYNEUX

True friendship

Oates, 27 Oct. 1698.

SIR,

Death has, with a violent hand, hastily snatched from you a dear brother. I doubt not but,
on this occasion, you need all the consolation can be given to one unexpectedly bereft of so
worthy and near a relation. Whatever inclination I may have to alleviate your sorrow, I bear
too great a share in the loss, and am too sensibly touched with it myself, to be in a condition
to discourse with you on this subject, or do any thing but mingle my tears with yours. I have
lost, in your brother, not only an ingenious and learned acquaintance, all that the world esteemed;
but an intimate and sincere friend, whom I truly loved, and by whom I was truly loved: and
what a loss that is, those only can be sensible who know how valuable, and how scarce, a true
friend is, and how far to be preferred to all other sorts of treasure. He has left a son, who
I know was dear to him, and deserved to be so as much as was possible, for one of his age.
I cannot think myself wholly incapacitated from paying some of the affection and service that
was due from me to my dear friend, as long as he has a child, or a brother, in the world. But,
my Lord, I have lately had the misfortune of being undeceived in the latter, by coming to know
the severity with which some of my Ladies are pleased to discourse of me in relation thereto.
I assure your Lordship, I was so big with the satisfaction of having an opportunity given me
by my Ladies at once of obliging them, paying a small respect to you, and doing a good office
to a deserving gentleman, that I did not let one day pass before I had bespoke and obtained
His Majesty's and Royal Highness's promise of favour in Mr. Bonithan's behalf: and was so far
afterwards from failing him in my further assistances with Captain Trevanion and others, that
I took early care to secure him a lieutenancy, by a commission actually signed for him by the
King, in the ship Stavereene, relying upon the character Captain Trevanion had given me of
his capacity to abide the examination, established by the King, upon the promotion of lieutenants;
which was not only the most I should have done in the case of a brother, but more than ever
I did in any man's case before, or, for his sake, do think I shall ever do again. True it is,
my Lord, that when, upon his examination by the officers of the Navy, he was found not so fully
qualified for the office of lieutenant as was requisite, I did with all respect, and to his
seeming satisfaction, advise him to pass a little longer time in the condition he was then
in, under a stricter application of himself to the practice of navigation. And, in pursuance
of my duty to the King, I did acquaint him also with Mr. Bonithan's present unreadiness; and
had, therefore, a command given me for conferring the commission prepared for him upon another,
who, upon examination, at the same time with Mr. Bonithan, was found better qualified for it.
As to what I understand my Ladies are pleased to entertain themselves and others with, to my
reproach, as if money had been wanting in the case, it is a reproach lost upon me, my Lord,
who am known to be so far from needing any purgation in the point of selling places, as never
to have taken so much as my fee for a commission or warrant to any one officer in the Navy,
within the whole time, now near twenty years, that I have had the honour of serving His Majesty
therein--a self-denial at this day so little in fashion, and yet so chargeable to maintain,
that I take no pride, and as little pleasure, in the mentioning it, further than it happily
falls in here to my defence against the mistake the Ladies seem disposed to arraign me by on
this occasion. Besides that, in the particular case of this gentleman, Lieut. Beele, who enjoys
the commission designed for Mr. Bonithan, he is one whose face I never saw either before or
since the time of his receiving it, nor know one friend he has in the world to whom he owes
this benefit, other than the King's justice and his own modest merit: which, having said, it
remains only that I assure your Lordship what I have so said, is not calculated with any regard
to, much less any repining at, the usage the Ladies are pleased to show me in this affair,
for 'tis fit I bear it, but to acquit myself to your Lordship in my demeanour towards them,
as becomes their and, my Lord,

Your Lordship's most obedient Servant.

TO MRS. STEWARD

A wedding in the city

20 Sept. 1695.

MADAM,

You are very good, and pray continue so, by as many kind messages as you can, and notices of
your health, such as the bearer brings you back my thanks for, and a thousand services. Here's
a sad town, and God knows when it will be a better, our losses at sea making a very melancholy
exchange at both ends of it; the gentlewomen of this, to say nothing of the other, sitting
with their arms across, without a yard of muslin in their shops to sell, while the ladies,
they tell me, walk pensively by, without a shilling, I mean a good one, in their pockets to
buy. One thing there is indeed, that comes in my way as a Governor, to hear of, which carries
a little mirth with it, and indeed is very odd. Two wealthy citizens that are lately dead,
and left their estates, one to a Blue Coat boy, and the other to a Blue Coat girl, in Christ's
Hospital. The extraordinariness of which has led some of the magistrates to carry it on to
a match, which is ended in a public wedding; he in his habit of blue satin, led by two of the
girls, and she in blue, with an apron green and petticoat yellow, all of sarsnet, led by two
of the boys of the house, through Cheapside to Guildhall Chapel, where they were married by
the Dean of St. Paul's, she given by my Lord Mayor. The wedding dinner, it seems, was kept
in the Hospital Hall, but the great day will be tomorrow, St Matthew's; when, so much I am
sure of, my Lord Mayor will be there, and myself also have had a ticket of invitation thither,
and if I can, will be there too, but, for other particulars, I must refer you to my next, and so,

Dear madam, Adieu.

Bow Bells are just now ringing, ding dong, but whether for this, I cannot presently tell; but
it is likely enough, for I have known them ring upon much foolisher occasions, and lately too.

TO JOHN EVELYN

Reply to an old friend

Clapham, 7 Aug. 1700.

I have no herds to mind, nor will my Doctor allow me any books here. What then, will you say,
too, are you doing? Why, truly, nothing that will bear naming, and yet I am not, I think, idle;
for who can, that has so much of past and to come to think on, as I have? And thinking, I take
it, is working, though many forms beneath what my Lady and you are doing. But pray remember
what o'clock it is with you and me; and be not now, by overstirring, too bold with your present
complaint, any more than I dare be with mine, which, too, has been no less kind in giving me
my warning, than the other to you, and to neither of us, I hope, and, through God's mercy,
dare say, either unlooked for or unwelcome. I wish, nevertheless, that I were able to administer
any thing towards the lengthening that precious rest of life which God has thus long blessed
you, and, in you, mankind, with; but I have always been too little regardful of my own health,
to be a prescriber to others. I cannot give myself the scope I otherwise should in talking
now to you at this distance, on account of the care extraordinary I am now under from Mrs.
Skinner's being suddenly fallen very ill; but ere long I may possibly venture at entertaining
you with something from my young man in exchange--I don't say in payment, for the pleasure
you gratify me with from yours, whom I pray God to bless with continuing but what he is! and
I'll ask no more for him.

To LORD TREASURER OXFORD

The Dean makes his bow

1 July, 1714.

MY LORD,

When I was with you, I have said more than once, that I would never allow quality or station
made any real difference between men. Being now absent and forgotten, I have changed my mind:
you have a thousand people who can pretend they love you, with as much appearance of sincerity
as I, so that, according to common justice, I can have but a thousandth part in return of what
I give. And this difference is wholly owing to your station. And the misfortune is still the
greater, because I always loved you just so much the worse for your station: for, in your public
capacity, you have often angered me to the heart, but, as a private man, never once. So that,
if I only look toward myself, I could wish you a private man to-morrow: for I have nothing
to ask; at least nothing that you will give, which is the same thing: and then you would see
whether I should not with much more willingness attend you in a retirement, whenever you please
to give me leave, than ever I did at London or Windsor. From these sentiments I will never
write to you, if I can help it, otherwise than as to a private person, or allow myself to have
been obliged to you in any other capacity.

The memory of one great instance of your candour and justice, I will carry to my grave; that
having been in a manner domestic with you for almost four years, it was never in the power
of any public or concealed enemy to make you think ill of me, though malice and envy were often
employed to that end. If I live, posterity shall know that, and more; which, though you, and
somebody that shall be nameless, seem to value less than I could wish, is all the return I
can make you. Will you give me leave to say how I would desire to stand in your memory? As
one, who was truly sensible of the honour you did him, though he was too proud to be vain upon
it; as one, who was neither assuming, officious, nor teasing; who never wilfully misrepresented
persons or facts to you, nor consulted his passions when he gave a character; and lastly, as
one, whose indiscretions proceeded altogether from a weak head, and not an ill heart. I will
add one thing more, which is the highest compliment I can make, that I never was afraid of
offending you, nor am now in any pain for the manner I write to you in. I have said enough;
and, like one at your levee, having made my bow, I shrink back into the crowd.

TO DR. SHERIDAN

News from the country

25 Jan. 1724-5.

I have a packet of letters, which I intended to send by Molly, who has been stopped three days
by the bad weather; but now I will send them by the post to-morrow to Kells, and enclosed to
Mr. Tickell there is one to you, and one to James Stopford.

I can do no work this terrible weather; which has put us all seventy times out of patience.
I have been deaf nine days, and am now pretty well recovered again.

Pray desire Mr. Stanton and Worral to continue giving themselves some trouble with Mr. Pratt;
but let it succeed or not, I hope I shall be easy.

Mrs. Johnson swears it will rain till Michaelmas. She is so pleased with her pick-axe, that
she wears it fastened to her girdle on her left side, in balance with her watch. The lake is
strangely overflown, and we are desperate about turf, being forced to buy it three miles off:
and Mrs. Johnson (God help her!) gives you many a curse. Your mason is come, but cannot yet
work upon your garden. Neither can I agree with him about the great wall. For the rest, vide
the letter you will have on Monday, if Mr. Tickell uses you well.

The news of this country is, that the maid you sent down, John Farelly's sister, is married;
but the portion and settlement are yet a secret. The cows here never give milk on midsummer eve.

You would wonder what carking and caring there is among us for small beer and lean mutton,
and starved lamb, and stopping gaps, and driving cattle from the corn. In that we are all-to-be-Dingleyed.

The ladies' room smokes; the rain drops from the skies into the kitchen; our servants eat and
drink like the devil, and pray for rain, which entertains them at cards and sleep; which are
much lighter than spades, sledges, and crows. Their maxim is,

  Eat like a Turk,
  Sleep like a dormouse;
  Be last at work,
  At victuals foremost.

Which is all at present; hoping you and your good family are well, as we are all at this present
writing &c.

Robin has just carried out a load of bread and cold meat for breakfast; this is their way;
but now a cloud hangs over them, for fear it should hold up, and the clouds blow off.

I write on till Molly comes in for the letter. O, what a draggletail will she be before she
gets to Dublin! I wish she may not happen to fall upon her back by the way.

I affirm against Aristotle, that cold and rain congregate homogenes, for they gather together
you and your crew, at whist, punch, and claret. Happy weather for Mrs. Maul, Betty, and Stopford,
and all true lovers of cards and laziness.

THE BLESSINGS OF A COUNTRY LIFE.

  Far from our debtors,
  No Dublin letters,
  Not seen by our betters.

THE PLAGUES OF A COUNTRY LIFE.

  A companion with news,
  A great want of shoes;
  Eat lean meat, or choose;
  A church without pews.
  Our horses astray,
  No straw, oats, or hay;
  December in May,
  Our boys run away,
  All servants at play.

Molly sends for the letter.

TO ALEXANDER POPE

Mostly about Gulliver

Dublin, 17 Nov. 1726.

I am just come from answering a letter of Mrs. Howard's, writ in such mystical terms, that
I should never have found out the meaning, if a book had not been sent me called Gulliver's
Travels, of which you say so much in yours. I read the book over, and in the second volume
observed several passages which appear to be patched and altered, and the style of a different
sort, unless I am mistaken. Dr. Arbuthnot likes the projectors least; others, you tell me,
the flying island; some think it wrong to be so hard upon whole bodies or corporations, yet
the general opinion is, that reflections on particular persons are most to be blamed; so that
in these cases, I think the best method is to let censure and opinion take their course.

Going to England is a very good thing, if it were not attended with an ugly circumstance of
returning to Ireland. It is a shame you do not persuade your ministers to keep me on that side,
if it were but by a court expedient of keeping me in prison for a plotter; but at the same
time I must tell you, that such journeys very much shorten my life, for a month here is very
much longer than six at Twickenham.

Adieu.

TO JOHN GAY

Enquiries into Mr. Gay's pursuits

Dublin, 4 May, 1732.

I am now as lame as when you writ your letter, and almost as lame as your letter itself, for
want of that limb from my lady duchess, which you promised, and without which I wonder how
it could limp hither. I am not in a condition to make a true step even on Amesbury Downs, and
I declare that a corporeal false step is worse than a political one: nay, worse than a thousand
political ones, for which I appeal to courts and ministers, who hobble on and prosper without
the sense of feeling. To talk of riding and walking is insulting me, for I can as soon fly
as do either. The worst of my present misfortune is, that I eat and drink, and can digest neither
for want of exercise; and, to increase my misery, the knaves are sure to find me at home, and
make huge void spaces in my cellars. I congratulate with you for losing your great acquaintance;
in such a case, philosophy teaches that we must submit, and be content with good ones. I like
Lord Cornbury's refusing his pension, but I demur at his being elected for Oxford; which, I
conceive, is wholly changed; and entirely devoted to new principles; so it appeared to me the
two last times I was there. Be assured I will hire people to watch all your motions, and to
return me a faithful account. Tell me, have you cured your absence of mind? can you attend
to trifles? can you at Amesbury write domestic libels to divert the family and neighbouring
squires for five miles round? or venture so far on horseback, without apprehending a stumble
at every step? can you set the footmen a-laughing as they wait at dinner? and do the duchess's
women admire your wit? in what esteem are you with the vicar of the parish? can you play with
him at backgammon? have the farmers found out that you cannot distinguish rye from barley,
or an oak from a crab-tree? You are sensible that I know the full extent of your country skill
is in fishing for roaches or gudgeons at the highest.

I love to do you good offices with your friends, and therefore desire you will show this letter
to the duchess, to improve her grace's good opinion of your qualifications, and convince her
how useful you are likely to be in the family. Her grace shall have the honour of my correspondence
again when she goes to Amesbury. Hear a piece of Irish news; I buried the famous General Meredyth's
father last night in my cathedral, he was ninety-six years old; so that Mrs. Pope may live
seven years longer. You saw Mr. Pope in health, pray is he generally more healthy than when
I was among you? I would know how your own health is, and how much wine you drink in a day?
My stint in company is a pint at noon, and half as much at night; but I often dine at home
like a hermit, and then I drink little or none at all. Yet I differ from you, for I would have
society, if I could get what I like, people of middle understanding, and middle rank.

Adieu.

I was extremely glad to receive a letter from you, but more so upon reading the contents of
it. The work you mention will, I dare say, very sufficiently recommend itself when your name
appears with the proposals: and if you think I can any way contribute to the forwarding of
them, you cannot lay a greater obligation upon me, than by employing me in such an office.
As I have an ambition of having it known that you are my friend, I shall be very proud of showing
it by this or any other instance. I question not but your translation will enrich our tongue,
and do honour to our country; for I conclude of it already from those performances with which
you have obliged the public. I would only have you consider how it may most turn to your advantage.
Excuse my impertinence in this particular, which proceeds from my zeal for your ease and happiness.
The work would cost you a great deal of time, and, unless you undertake it, will, I am afraid,
never be executed by any other; at least I know none of this age that is equal to it besides
yourself.

I am at present wholly immersed in country business, and begin to take a delight in it. I wish
I might hope to see you here some time, and will not despair of it, when you engage in a work
that will require solitude and retirement.

TO MR. SECRETARY CRAGGS

A bequest

June 1719.

DEAR SIR,

I cannot wish that any of my writings should last longer than the memory of our friendship,
and therefore I thus publicly bequeath them to you, in return for the many valuable instances
of your affection.

That they may come to you with as little disadvantage as possible, I have left the care of
them to one, whom, by the experience of some years, I know well-qualified to answer my intentions.
He has already the honour and happiness of being under your protection; and as he will very
much stand in need of it, I cannot wish him better than that he may continue to deserve the
favour and countenance of such a patron.

I have no time to lay out in forming such compliments as would but ill suit that familiarity
between us which was once my greatest pleasure, and will be my greatest honour hereafter. Instead
of them, accept of my hearty wishes that the great reputation you have acquired so early, may
increase more and more, and that you may long serve your country with those excellent talents
and unblemished integrity, which have so powerfully recommended you to the most gracious and
amiable monarch that ever filled a throne. May the frankness and generosity of your spirit
continue to soften and subdue your enemies, and gain you many friends, if possible, as sincere
as yourself. When you have found such, they cannot wish you more true happiness than I, who
am with the greatest zeal, dear sir,

Your most entirely affectionate friend and faithful obedient servant.

TO THE SAME

A pleasing transport

Smith Street, Westminster, 1707.

Madam,--I lay down last night with your image in my thoughts, and have awakened this morning
in the same contemplation. The pleasing transport with which I am delighted has a sweetness
in it attended with a train of ten thousand soft desires, anxieties, and cares. The day arises
on my hopes with new brightness; youth, beauty, and innocence are the charming objects that
steal me from myself, and give me joys above the reach of ambition, pride, or glory. Believe
me, fair one, to throw myself at your feet is giving myself the highest bliss I know on earth.
Oh, hasten, ye minutes! bring on the happy morning wherein to be ever hers will make me look
down on thrones! Dear Molly, I am tenderly, passionately, faithfully thine.

TO HIS WIFE

He proposes an outing

Lord Sunderland's Office, 19 May, 1708.

Eleven o'clock.

Dear Prue,--I desire you to get the coach and yourself ready as soon as you can conveniently,
and call for me here, from whence we will go and spend some time together in the fresh air
in free conference. Let my best periwig be put in the coach-box, and my new shoes, for it is
a great comfort to be well dressed in agreeable company. You are vital life to your obliged,
affectionate husband, and humble servant.

TO THE SAME

His greatest affliction

12 Aug. 1708.

Madam,--I have your letter, wherein you let me know that the little dispute we have had is
far from being a trouble to you; nevertheless I assure you, any disturbance between us is the
greatest affliction to me imaginable. You talk of the judgement of the world; I shall never
govern my actions by it, but by the rules of morality and right reason. I love you better than
the light of my eyes or the life-blood in my heart; but you are also to understand that neither
my sight shall be so far enchanted, nor my affection so much master of me, as to make me forget
our common interest. To attend my business as I ought, and improve my fortune, it is necessary
that my time and my will should be under no direction but my own.... I write all this rather
to explain my own thoughts to you, than to answer your letter distinctly. I enclose it to you,
that upon second thoughts, you may see the disrespectful manner in which you treat

Your affectionate, faithful husband.

TO THE SAME

Four characteristic notes

I

From the Press, one in the morning, 30 Sept. 1710.

II

Bloomsbury Square, 24 Dec. 1713.

Dear Prue,--I dine with Lord Halifax and shall be at home half hour after six. For thee I die,
for thee I languish.

III

16 Feb. 1716-17.

Dear Prue,--Sober or not, I am ever yours.

IV

Thursday, 3 in the afternoon, 2 May, 1717.

I had a very painful night last night; but, after a little chocolate an hour or two ago, and
a chicken for dinner, am much more at ease.

TO THE SAME

The natural slave of beauty.

20 June, 1717.

Dear Prue,--I have yours of the 14th, and am infinitely obliged to you for the length of it.
I do not know another whom I could commend for that circumstance; but where we entirely love,
the continuance of anything they do to please us is a pleasure. As for your relations, once
for all, pray take it for granted, that my regard and conduct towards all and singular of them
shall be as you direct.

I hope, by the grace of God, to continue what you wish me, every way, an honest man. My wife
and my children are the objects that have wholly taken up my heart; and as I am not invited
or encouraged in anything which regards the public, I am easy under that neglect or envy of
my past actions, and cheerfully contract that diffusive spirit within the interests of my own
family. You are the head of us; and I stoop to a female reign as being naturally made the slave
of beauty. But to prepare for our manner of living when we are again together, give me leave
to say, while I am here at leisure, and come to lie at Chelsea, what I think may contribute
to our better way of living. I very much approve Mrs. Evans and her husband; and if you take
my advice, I would have them a being in our house, and Mrs. Clark the care and inspection of
the nursery. I would have you entirely at leisure to pass your time with me in diversions,
in books, in entertainments, and no manner of business intrude upon us but at stated times.
For, though you are made to be the delight of my eyes, and food of all my senses and faculties,
yet a turn of care and housewifery, and I know not what prepossession against conversation-pleasures,
robs me of the witty and the handsome woman to a degree not to be expressed. I will work my
brains and fingers to procure us plenty of all things, and demand nothing of you but to take
delight in agreeable dresses, cheerful discourses, and gay sights, attended by me. This may
be done by putting the kitchen and the nursery in the hands I propose; and I shall have nothing
to do but to pass as much time at home as I possibly can, in the best company in the world.
We cannot tell here what to think of the trial of my Lord Oxford; if the ministry are in earnest
in that, and I should see it will be extended to a length of time, I will leave them to themselves,
and wait upon you. Miss Moll grows a mighty beauty, and she shall be very prettily dressed,
as likewise shall Betty and Eugene: and if I throw away a little money in adorning my brats,
I hope you will forgive me: they are, I thank God, all very well; and the charming form of
their mother has tempered the likeness they bear to their rough sire, who is, with the greatest
fondness,

Your most obliged and obedient husband.

JOHN GAY

1685-1732

TO JONATHAN SWIFT

Concerning Gulliver

17 Nov. 1726.

About ten days ago a book was published here of the travels of one Gulliver, which has been
the conversation of the whole town ever since: the whole impression sold in a week: and nothing
is more diverting than to hear the different opinions people give of it, though all agree in
liking it extremely. It is generally said that you are the author; but I am told the bookseller
declares, he knows not from what hand it came. From the highest to the lowest it is universally
read, from the cabinet-council to the nursery. The politicians to a man agree, that it is free
from particular reflections, but that the satire on general societies of men is too severe.
Not but we now and then meet with people of greater perspicuity, who are in search for particular
applications in every leaf; and it is highly probable we shall have keys published to give
light into Gulliver's design. Lord ---- is the person who least approves it, blaming it as
a design of evil consequence to depreciate human nature, at which it cannot be wondered that
he takes most offence, being himself the most accomplished of his species, and so losing more
than any other of that praise which is due both to the dignity and virtue of a man. Your friend,
my Lord Harcourt, commends it very much, though he thinks in some places the matter too far
carried. The Duchess Dowager of Marlborough is in raptures at it; she says she can dream of
nothing else since she read it: she declares that she has now found out that her whole life
has been lost in caressing the worst part of mankind, and treating the best as her foes: and
that if she knew Gulliver, though he had been the worst enemy she ever had, she should give
up her present acquaintance for his friendship. You may see by this, that you are not much
injured by being supposed the author of this piece. If you are, you have disobliged us, and
two or three of your best friends, in not giving us the least hint of it while you were with
us; and in particular Dr. Arbuthnot, who says it is ten thousand pities he had not known it,
he could have added such abundance of things upon every subject. Among lady critics, some have
found out that Mr. Gulliver had a particular malice to maids of honour. Those of them who frequent
the church, say his design is impious, and that it is depreciating the works of the Creator.

Notwithstanding, I am told the princess has read it with great pleasure. As to other critics,
they think the flying island is the least entertaining; and so great an opinion the town have
of the impossibility of Gulliver's writing at all below himself, it is agreed that part was
not writ by the same hand, though this has its defenders too.

Perhaps I may all this time be talking to you of a book you have never seen, and which has
not yet reached Ireland; if it has not, I believe what we have said will be sufficient to recommend
it to your reading, and that you will order me to send it to you.

But it will be much better to come over yourself, and read it here, where you will have the
pleasure of variety of commentators, to explain the difficult passages to you.

We all rejoice that you have fixed the precise time of your coming to be cum hirundine prima;
which we modern naturalists pronounce, ought to be reckoned, contrary to Pliny, in this northern
latitude of fifty-two degrees, from the end of February, Styl. Greg., at furthest. But to us,
your friends, the coming of such a black swallow as you will make a summer in the worst of
seasons. We are no less glad at your mention of Twickenham and Dawley; and in town you know,
you have a lodging at court.

The princess is clothed in Irish silk; pray give our service to the weavers. We are strangely
surprised to hear that the bells in Ireland ring without your money. I hope you do not write
the thing that is not. We are afraid that B---- hath been guilty of that crime, that you (like
a houyhnhnm) have treated him as a yahoo, and discarded him your service. I fear you do not
understand these modish terms, which every creature now understands but yourself.

You tell us your wine is bad, and that the clergy do not frequent your house, which we look
upon to be tautology. The best advice we can give you is, to make them a present of your wine,
and come away to better.

You fancy we envy you, but you are mistaken; we envy those you are with, for we cannot envy
the man we love. Adieu.

It was certainly a great satisfaction to me to see and converse with a man, whom in his writings
I had so long known with pleasure; but it was a high addition to it, to hear you, at our very
first meeting, doing justice to your dead friend Mr. Dryden. I was not so happy as to know
him: Virgilium tantum vidi. Had I been born early enough I must have known and loved him: for
I have been assured, not only by yourself, but by Mr. Congreve and Sir William Trumbul, that
his personal qualities were as amiable as his poetical, notwithstanding the many libellous
misrepresentations of them, against which the former of these gentlemen has told me he will
one day vindicate him. I suppose those injuries were begun by the violence of party, but it
is no doubt they were continued by envy at his success and fame. And those scribblers who attacked
him in his latter times, were only like gnats in a summer's evening, which are never very troublesome
but in the finest and most glorious season; for his fire, like the sun's, shined clearest towards
its setting.

You must not therefore imagine, that when you told me my own performances were above those
critics, I was so vain as to believe it; and yet I may not be so humble as to think myself
quite below their notice. For critics, as they are birds of prey, have ever a natural inclination
to carrion: and though such poor writers as I are but beggars, no beggar is so poor but he
can keep a cur, and no author is so beggarly but he can keep a critic. I am far from thinking
the attacks of such people any honour or dishonour even to me, much less to Mr. Dryden. I agree
with you that whatever lesser wits have arisen since his death are but like stars appearing
when the sun is set, that twinkle only in his absence, and with the rays they have borrowed
from him. Our wit (as you call it) is but reflection or imitation, therefore scarce to be called
ours. True wit, I believe, may be defined a justness of thought, and a facility of expression....
However, this is far from a complete definition; pray help me to a better, as I doubt not you can.

TO JOSEPH ADDISON

A few thoughts from a rambling head

14 Dec. 1713.

I have been lying in wait for my own imagination, this week and more, and watching what thoughts
came up in the whirl of the fancy, that were worth communicating to you in a letter. But I
am at length convinced that my rambling head can produce nothing of that sort; so I must e'en
be content with telling you the old story, that I love you heartily. I have often found by
experience, that nature and truth, though never so low or vulgar, are yet pleasing when openly
and artlessly represented: it would be diverting to me to read the very letters of an infant,
could it write its innocent inconsistencies and tautologies just as it thought them. This makes
me hope a letter from me will not be unwelcome to you, when I am conscious I write with more
unreservedness than ever man wrote, or perhaps talked, to another. I trust your good nature
with the whole range of my follies, and really love you so well, that I would rather you should
pardon me than esteem me; since one is an act of goodness and benevolence, the other a kind
of constrained deference.

You cannot wonder my thoughts are scarce consistent, when I tell you how they are distracted.
Every hour of my life my mind is strangely divided; this minute perhaps I am above the stars,
with a thousand systems round about me, looking forward into a vast abyss, and losing my whole
comprehension in the boundless space of creation, in dialogues with Whiston and the astronomers;
the next moment I am below all trifles, grovelling with T---- in the very centre of nonsense:
now I am recreated with the brisk sallies and quick turns of wit, which Mr. Steele, in his
liveliest and freest humours, darts about him; and now levelling my application to the insignificant
observations and quirks of grammar of C---- and D----. What is he, altogether, but a mighty
inconsistency; sickness and pain is the lot of one half of him, doubt and fear the portion
of the other! What a bustle we make about passing our time when all our space is but a point!
what aims and ambitions are crowded into this little instant of our life, which (as Shakespeare
finely worded it) is rounded with a sleep! Our whole extent of being is no more, in the eye
of Him who gave it, than a scarce perceptible moment of duration. Those animals whose circle
of living is limited to three or four hours, as the naturalists tell us, are yet as long-lived,
and possess as wide a field of action as man, if we consider him with a view to all space and
all eternity. Who knows what plots, what achievements a mite may perform in his kingdom of
a grain of dust, within his life of some minutes; and of how much less consideration than even
this, is the life of man in the sight of God, who is for ever and ever?

Who that thinks in this train, but must see the world, and its contemptible grandeurs, lessen
before him at every thought? It is enough to make one remain stupefied in a poise of inaction,
void of all desires, of all designs, of all friendships.

But we must return (through our very condition of being) to our narrow selves, and those things
that affect ourselves: our passions, our interests flow in upon us and unphilosophize us into
mere mortals. For my part, I never return so much into myself, as when I think of you, whose
friendship is one of the best comforts I have for the insignificancy of myself.

TO JONATHAN SWIFT

Friends to posterity

23 March, 1727-8.

I send you a very odd thing, a paper printed in Boston, in New England, wherein you will find
a real person, a member of their parliament, of the name of Jonathan Gulliver. If the fame
of that traveller has travelled thither, it has travelled very quick, to have folks christened
already by the name of the supposed author. But if you object that no child so lately christened
could be arrived at years of maturity to be elected into parliament, I reply (to solve the
riddle) that the person is an Anabaptist, and not christened till full age, which sets all
right. However it be, the accident is very singular that these two names should be united.
This world is made for Caesar,--as Cato said, for ambitious, false, or flattering people to
domineer in; nay, they would not, by their good will, leave us our very books, thoughts, or
words in quiet. I despise the world yet, I assure you, more than either Gay or you, and the
court more than all the rest of the world. As for those scribblers for whom you apprehend I
would suppress my Dulness (which, by the way, for the future you are to call by a more pompous
name, the Dunciad), how much that nest of hornets are my regard will easily appear to you when
you read the Treatise of the Bathos.

At all adventures, yours and mine shall stand linked as friends to posterity, both in verse
and prose, and (as Tully calls it) in consuetudine studiorum. Would to God our persons could
but as well and as surely be inseparable! I find my other ties dropping from me; some worn
off, some torn off, some relaxing daily: my greatest, both by duty, gratitude, and humanity,
time is shaking every moment, and it now hangs but by a thread! I am many years the older for
living so much with one so old; much the more helpless for having been so long helped and tendered
by her; much the more considerate and tender, for a daily commerce with one who required me
justly to be both to her; and consequently the more melancholy and thoughtful; and the less
fit for others, who want only in a companion or a friend to be amused or entertained. My constitution
too has had its share of decay as well as my spirits, and I am as much in the decline at forty
as you at sixty. I believe we should be fit to live together could I get a little more health,
which might make me not quite insupportable. Your deafness would agree with my dulness; you
would not want me to speak when you could not hear. But God forbid you should be as destitute
of the social comforts of life as I must when I lose my mother; or that ever you should lose
your more useful acquaintance so utterly, as to turn your thoughts to such a broken reed as
I am, who could so ill supply your wants. I am extremely troubled at the return of your deafness;
you cannot be too particular in the accounts of your health to me; everything you do or say
in this kind obliges me, nay, delights me, to see the justice you do me in thinking me concerned
in all your concerns; so that though the pleasantest thing you can tell me be that you are
better or easier; next to that it pleases me that you make me the person you would complain to.

As the obtaining the love of valuable men is the happiest end I know of this life, so the next
felicity is to get rid of fools and scoundrels; which I cannot but own to you was one part
of my design in falling upon these authors, whose incapacity is not greater than their insincerity,
and of whom I have always found (if I may quote myself),

  That each bad author is as bad a friend.

This poem will rid me of these insects.

  Cedite, Romani scriptores, cedite, Graii;
  Nescio quid maius nascitur Iliade.

I mean than my Iliad; and I call it Nescio quid, which is a degree of modesty; but however,
if it silence these fellows, it must be something greater than any Iliad in Christendom. Adieu.

TO THE SAME

A farming friend, and the Dunciad

Dawley, 28 June, 1728.

I now hold the pen for my Lord Bolingbroke, who is reading your letter between two haycocks,
but his attention is somewhat diverted by casting his eyes on the clouds, not in admiration
of what you say, but for fear of a shower. He is pleased with your placing him in the triumvirate
between yourself and me: though he says, that he doubts he shall fare like Lepidus, while one
of us runs away with all the power, like Augustus, and another with all the pleasures, like
Anthony. It is upon a foresight of this that he has fitted up his farm, and you will agree
that his scheme of retreat at least is not founded upon weak appearances. Upon his return from
the Bath, all peccant humours, he finds, are purged out of him; and his great temperance and
economy are so signal, that the first is fit for my constitution, and the latter would enable
you to lay up so much money as to buy a bishopric in England. As to the return of his health
and vigour, were you here, you might inquire of his haymakers; but as to his temperance, I
can answer that (for one whole day) we have had nothing for dinner but mutton broth, beans,
and bacon, and a barn-door fowl.

Now his lordship is run after his cart, I have a moment left to myself to tell you, that I
overheard him yesterday agree with a painter for £200, to paint his country hall with trophies
of rakes, spades, prongs, &c., and other ornaments, merely to countenance his calling this
place a farm--now turn over a new leaf.

He bids me assure you, he should be sorry not to have more schemes of kindness for his friends
than of ambition for himself; there, though his schemes may be weak, the motives at least are
strong; and he says farther, if you could bear as great a fall and decrease of your revenues,
as he knows by experience he can, you would not live in Ireland an hour.

The Dunciad is going to be printed in all pomp, with the inscription, which makes me proudest.
It will be attended with proeme, prolegomena, testimonia scriptorum, index authorum, and notes
variorum. As to the latter, I desire you to read over the text, and make a few in any way you
like best; whether dry raillery, upon the style and way of commenting of trivial critics; or
humourous, upon the authors in the poem; or historical, of persons, places, times; or explanatory,
or collecting the parallel passages of the ancients. Adieu. I am pretty well, my mother not
ill, Dr. Arbuthnot vexed with his fever by intervals; I am afraid he declines, and we shall
lose a worthy man: I am troubled about him very much.

TO THE SAME

An invitation to England

23 March, 1736-7.

Though you were never to write to me, yet what you desired in your last, that I would write
often to you, would be a very easy task: for every day I talk with you, and of you, in my heart;
and I need only set down what that is thinking of. The nearer I find myself verging to that
period of life which is to be labour and sorrow, the more I prop myself upon those few supports
that are left me. People in this state are like props indeed; they cannot stand alone, but
two or more of them can stand, leaning and bearing upon one another. I wish you and I might
pass this part of life together. My only necessary care is at an end. I conclude this is your
case too in your domestic life, and I sometimes think of your old housekeeper as my nurse,
though I tremble at the sea, which only divides us. As your fears are not so great as mine,
and I firmly hope your strength still much greater, is it utterly impossible it might once
more be some pleasure to you to see England? My sole motive in proposing France to meet in,
was the narrowness of the passage by sea from hence, the physicians having told me the weakness
of my breast, &c., is such, as a sea-sickness might endanger my life. Though one or two of
our friends are gone since you saw your native country, there remain a few more who will last
so till death; and who I cannot but hope have an attractive power to draw you back to a country
which cannot quite be sunk or enslaved, while such spirits remain. And let me tell you, there
are a few more of the same spirit, who would awaken all your old ideas, and revive your hopes
of her future recovery and virtue. These look up to you with reverence, and would be animated
by the sight of him at whose soul they have taken fire in his writings, and derived from thence
as much love of their species as is consistent with a contempt for the knaves in it.

I could never be weary, except at the eyes, of writing to you; but my real reason (and a strong
one it is) for doing it so seldom, is fear; fear of a very great and experienced evil, that
of my letters being kept by the partiality of friends, and passing into the hands and malice
of enemies, who publish them with all their imperfections on their head, so that I write not
on the common terms of honest men. We could, were we together, contrive to make our last days
easy, and leave some sort of monument, what friends two wits could be in spite of all the fools
in the world. Adieu.

In another place, you are offended with the word gratitude; as if your idea of love excluded
gratitude.

And further on, you are offended that I call this same passion 'a little selfish passion'.

And you say that you have known few girls, and still fewer men, whom you have thought 'capable
of being in love'.

'By this', proceed you, 'you will see that my ideas of the word love are different from yours,
when you call it a little selfish passion.'

Now, madam, if that passion is not little and selfish that makes two vehement souls prefer
the gratification of each other, often to a sense of duty, and always to the whole world without
them, be pleased to tell me what is? And pray be so good as to define to me what the noble
passion is, of which so few people of either sex are capable. Give me your ideas of it.

I put not this question as a puzzler, a bamboozler, but purely for information; and that I
may make my Sir Charles susceptible of the generous (may I say generous?) flame, and yet know
what he is about, yet be a reasonable man.

Harriet's passion is founded in gratitude for relief given her in a great exigence. But the
man who rescued her is not, it seems, to have such a word as gratitude in his head, in return
for her love.

I repeat, that I will please you if I can; please you, Miss Mulso, I here mean (before I meant
not you particularly, my dear, but your sex), in Sir Charles's character; and I sincerely declare,
that I would rather form his character to your liking, than to the liking of three parts out
of four of the persons I am acquainted with.

You are one of my best girls, and best judges. Of whom have I the opinion that I have of Miss
Mulso on these nice subjects?--I ask therefore repeatedly for your definition of the passion
which you dignify by the word noble; and from which you exclude everything mean, little, or
selfish.

And you really think it marvellous that a young woman should find a man of exalted merit to
be in love with? Why, truly, I am half of your mind; for how should people find what, in general,
they do not seek? Yet what good creatures are many girls! They will be in love for all that.

Why, yes, to be sure, they would be glad of a Sir Charles Grandison, and prefer him even to
a Lovelace, were he capable of being terribly in love. And yet, I know one excellent girl who
is afraid 'that ladies in general will think him too wise'.--Dear, dear girls, help me to a
few monkey-tricks to throw into his character, in order to shield him from contempt for his wisdom.

'It is one of my maxims,' you say, 'that people even of bad hearts will admire and love people
of good ones.' Very true!--and yet admiration and love, in the sense before us, do not always
shake hands, except at parting, and with an intention never to meet again. I have known women
who professed to admire good men, but have chosen to marry men--not so good, when lovers of
both sorts have tendered themselves to their acceptance. There is something very pretty in
the sound of the word wild, added to the word fellow; and good sense is a very grateful victim
to be sacrificed on the altar of love. Fervour and extravagance in expressions will please.
How shall a woman, who, moreover, loves to be admired, know a man's heart, but from his lips?--Let
him find flattery, and she will find credulity. Sweet souls! can they be always contradicting?

You believe it is not in human nature, however depraved, to prefer evil to good in another,
whatever people may do in themselves. Why, no one would really think so, did not experience
convince us that many, very many young women, in the article of marriage, though not before
thought to be very depraved, are taken by this green sickness of the soul, and prefer dirt
and rubbish to wholesome diet. The result of the matter is this, with very many young women:
they will admire a good man, but they will marry a bad one. Are not rakes pretty fellows?

But one thing let me add, to comfort you in relation to Harriet's difficulties: I intend to
make her shine by her cordial approbation, as she goes along, of every good action of her beloved.
She is humbled by her love (suspense in love is a mortifier) to think herself inferior to his
sisters; but I intend to raise her above them, even in her own just opinion; and when she shines
out the girl worthy of a man, not exalt, but reward her, and at the same time make him think
himself highly rewarded by the love of so frank and so right an heart.

There now!--Will that do, my Miss Mulso?

I laid indeed a heavy hand on the good Clarissa. But I had begun with her, with a view to the
future saint in her character; and could she, but by sufferings, shine as she does?

Do you, my dear child, look upon me as your paternal friend.

To MRS. SARAH CHISWELL

Ingrafting for small-pox

Adrianople, 1 April, O.S. [1717].

TO THE COUNTESS OF BRISTOL

The Grand Signior a slave

Adrianople, 1 April, o.s. 1717.

I am afraid you will think this a very long and insignificant letter. I hope the kindness of
the design will excuse it, being willing to give you every proof in my power that I am,

Your most affectionate mother.

TO THE SAME

Fielding and other authors

Lovere, 22 Sept. [1755].

MY DEAR CHILD,

I received, two days ago, the box of books you were so kind to send; but I can scarce say whether
my pleasure or disappointment was greatest. I was much pleased to see before me a fund of amusement,
but heartily vexed to find your letter consisting only of three lines and a half. Why will
you not employ Lady Mary as secretary, if it is troublesome to you to write? I have told you
over and over, you may at the same time oblige your mother and improve your daughter, both
which I should think very agreeable to yourself. You can never want something to say. The history
of your nursery, if you had no other subject to write on, would be very acceptable to me. I
am such a stranger to everything in England, I should be glad to hear more particulars relating
to the families I am acquainted with: if Miss Liddel marries the Lord Euston I knew, or his
nephew, who has succeeded him; if Lord Berkeley has left children; and several trifles of that
sort, that would be a satisfaction to my curiosity.

DEAR BOY,

I have received your last Saturday's performance, with which I am very well satisfied. I know
or have heard of no Mr. St. Maurice here; and young Pain, whom I have made an ensign, was here
upon the spot, as were every one of those I have named in these new levies.

Now that the Christmas breaking-up draws near, I have ordered Mr. Desnoyers to go to you, during
that time, to teach you to dance. I desire that you will particularly attend to the graceful
motion of your arms; which with the manner of putting on your hat, and giving your hand, is
all that a gentleman need attend to. Dancing is in itself a very trifling, silly thing; but
it is one of those established follies to which people of sense are sometimes obliged to conform;
and then they should be able to do it well. And though I would not have you a dancer, yet when
you do dance, I would have you dance well; as I would have you do everything you do, well.
There is no one thing so trifling, but which (if it is to be done at all) ought to be done
well; and I have often told you that I wish you even played at pitch, and cricket, better than
any boy at Westminster. There are a thousand foolish customs of this kind, which not being
criminal, must be complied with, and even cheerfully, by men of sense. Diogenes the cynic was
a wise man for despising them; but a fool for showing it. Be wiser than other people if you
can; but do not tell them so.

It is a very fortunate thing for Sir Charles Hotham, to have fallen into the hands of one of
your age, experience, and knowledge of the world: I am persuaded you will take infinite care
of him. Goodnight. Most people have ears, but few have judgement; tickle those ears, and, depend
upon it, you will catch their judgements, such as they are. May my labour not be in vain! and
it will not, if you will but have half the concern for yourself that I have for you. Adieu.

SAMUEL JOHNSON

1709-1784

To BENNET LANGTON

Postponement of a visit

6 May, 1755.

TO MISS PORTER

A mother's death

23 Jan. 1759.

To JOSEPH BARETTI

A letter of counsel

21 Dec. 1762. For your part, you will find all your old friends willing to receive you....

To MRS. THRALE

Travel in Scotland

Skye, 21 Sept. 1773.

DEAREST MADAM,

I am so vexed at the necessity of sending yesterday so short a letter, that I purpose to get
a long letter beforehand by writing something every day, which I may the more easily do, as
a cold makes me now too deaf to take the usual pleasure in conversation. Lady Macleod is very
good to me, and the place at which we now are, is equal in strength of situation, in the wildness
of the adjacent country, and in the plenty and elegance of the domestic entertainment, to a
castle in Gothic romances. The sea with a little island is before us; cascades play within
view. Close to the house is the formidable skeleton of an old castle probably Danish, and the
whole mass of building stands upon a protuberance of rock, inaccessible till of late but by
a pair of stairs on the sea side, and secure in ancient times against any enemy that was likely
to invade the kingdom of Skye.

Macleod has offered me an island; if it were not too far off I should hardly refuse it: my
island would be pleasanter than Brighthelmstone, if you and my master could come to it; but
I cannot think it pleasant to live quite alone.

    Oblitusque meorum, obliviscendus et illis.

That I should be elated by the dominion of an island to forgetfulness of my friends at Streatham
I cannot believe, and I hope never to deserve that they should be willing to forget me.

It has happened that I have been often recognised in my journey where I did not expect it.
At Aberdeen I found one of my acquaintance professor of physic; turning aside to dine with
a country gentleman, I was owned at table by one who had seen me at a philosophical lecture;
at Macdonald's I was claimed by a naturalist, who wanders about the islands to pick up curiosities;
and I had once in London attracted the notice of Lady Macleod. I will now go on with my account.

The Highland girl made tea, and looked and talked not inelegantly; her father was by no means
an ignorant or a weak man; there were books in the cottage, among which were some volumes of
Prideaux's Connection: this man's conversation we were glad of while we stayed. He had been
out, as they call it, in forty-five, and still retained his old opinions. He was going to America,
because his rent was raised beyond what he thought himself able to pay.

At night our beds were made, but we had some difficulty in persuading ourselves to lie down
in them, though we had put on our own sheets; at last we ventured, and I slept very soundly
in the vale of Glen Morrison, amidst the rocks and mountains. Next morning our landlord liked
us so well, that he walked some miles with us for our company, through a country so wild and
barren that the proprietor does not, with all his pressure upon his tenants, raise more than
four hundred pounds a year for near one hundred square miles or sixty thousand acres. He let
us know that he had forty head of black cattle, an hundred goats, and an hundred sheep, upon
a farm that he remembered let at five pounds a year, but for which he now paid twenty. He told
us some stories of their march into England. At last he left us, and we went forward, winding
among mountains, sometimes green and sometimes naked, commonly so steep as not easily to be
climbed by the greatest vigour and activity: our way was often crossed by little rivulets,
and we were entertained with small streams trickling from the rocks, which after heavy rains
must be tremendous torrents.

About noon we came to a small glen, so they call a valley, which compared with other places
appeared rich and fertile; here our guides desired us to stop, that the horses might graze,
for the journey was very laborious, and no more grass would be found.

In about an hour we remounted, and pursued our journey. The lake by which we had travelled
for some time ended in a river, which we passed by a bridge, and came to another glen, with
a collection of huts, called Auknashealds; the huts were generally built of clods of earth,
held together by the intertexture of vegetable fibres, of which earth there are great levels
in Scotland which they call mosses. Moss in Scotland is bog in Ireland, and moss-trooper is
bog-trotter: there was, however, one hut built of loose stones, piled up with great thickness
into a strong though not solid wall. From this house we obtained some great pails of milk,
and having brought bread with us, were very liberally regaled. The inhabitants, a very coarse
tribe, ignorant of any language but Erse, gathered so fast about us, that if we had not had
Highlanders with us, they might have caused more alarm than pleasure; they are called the Clan
of Macrae.

We had been told that nothing gratified the Highlanders so much as snuff and tobacco, and had
accordingly stored ourselves with both at Fort Augustus. Boswell opened his treasure, and gave
them each a piece of tobacco roll. We had more bread than we could eat for the present, and
were more liberal than provident. Boswell cut it in slices, and gave them an opportunity of
tasting wheaten bread for the first time. I then got some halfpence for a shilling, and made
up the deficiencies of Boswell's distribution, who had given some money among the children.
We then directed that the mistress of the stone house should be asked what we must pay her:
she, who perhaps had never before sold anything but cattle, knew not, I believe, well what
to ask, and referred herself to us: we obliged her to make some demand, and one of the Highlanders
settled the account with her at a shilling. The Macraes were so well pleased with our behaviour,
that they declared it the best day they had seen since the time of the old Laird of Macleod,
who, I suppose, like us, stopped in their valley, as he was travelling to Skye....

I cannot forbear to interrupt my narrative. I can now look back upon three score and four years,
in which little has been done, and little has been enjoyed; a life diversified by misery, spent
part in the sluggishness of penury, and part under the violence of pain, in gloomy discontent
or importunate distress. But perhaps I am better than I should have been if I had been less
afflicted. With this I will try to be content.

In proportion as there is less pleasure in retrospective considerations, the mind is more disposed
to wander forward into futurity; but at sixty-four what promises, however liberal, of imaginary
good can futurity venture to make? Yet something will be always promised and some promises
will always be credited. I am hoping and I am praying that I may live better in the time to
come, whether long or short, than I have yet lived, and in the solace of that hope endeavour
to repose. Dear Queeny's day is next, I hope she at sixty-four will have less to regret....

You will now expect that I should give you some account of the Isle of Skye, of which, though
I have been twelve days upon it, I have little to say. It is an island perhaps fifty miles
long, so much indented by inlets of the sea that there is no part of it removed from the water
more than six miles. No part that I have seen is plain; you are always climbing or descending,
and every step is upon rock or mire. A walk upon ploughed ground in England is a dance upon
carpets compared to the toilsome drudgery of wandering in Skye. There is neither town nor village
in the island, nor have I seen any house but Macleod's, that is not much below your habitation
at Brighthelmstone. In the mountains there are stags and roebucks, but no hares, and few rabbits;
nor have I seen anything that interested me as a zoologist, except an otter, bigger than I
thought an otter could have been.

You perhaps are imagining that I am withdrawn from the gay and the busy world into regions
of peace and pastoral felicity, and am enjoying the relics of the golden age; that I am surveying
nature's magnificence from a mountain, or remarking her minuter beauties on the flowery bank
of a winding rivulet; that I am invigorating myself in the sunshine, or delighting my imagination
with being hidden from the invasion of human evils and human passions in the darkness of a
thicket; that I am busy in gathering shells and pebbles on the shore, or contemplative on a
rock, from which I look upon the water, and consider how many waves are rolling between me
and Streatham.

The use of travelling is to regulate imagination by reality, and instead of thinking how things
may be, to see them as they are. Here are mountains which I should once have climbed, but to
climb steps is now very laborious, and to descend them dangerous; and I am now content with
knowing, that by scrambling up a rock, I shall only see other rocks, and a wider circuit of
barren desolation. Of streams, we have here a sufficient number, but they murmur not upon pebbles,
but upon rocks. Of flowers, if Chloris herself were here, I could present her only with the
bloom of heath. Of lawns and thickets, he must read that would know them, for here is little
sun and no shade. On the sea I look from my window, but am not much tempted to the shore; for
since I came to this island, almost every breath of air has been a storm, and what is worse,
a storm with all its severity, but without its magnificence, for the sea is here so broken
into channels that there is not a sufficient volume of water either for lofty surges or a loud
roar....

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE EARL OF CHESTERFIELD

Patronage

7 Feb. 1775.

To JAMES BOSWELL

A silent friend

13 July, 1779. Write, pray write to me, and let me know what is or what has been the cause
of this long interruption.

To MRS. THRALE

A great man's fortitude

19 June, 1783. Alas! everything has now lost its relish and look! The hour you left D'Estella
I took to my bed. I was worn out with fevers of all kinds, but most by that fever of the heart
with which thou knowest well I have been wasting these two years--and shall continue wasting
till you quit S----. The good Miss S----, from the forebodings of the best of hearts, thinking
I was ill, insisted upon my going to her. What can be the cause, my dear L., that I never have
been able to see the face of this mutual friend, but I feel myself rent to pieces? She made
me stay an hour with her, and in that short space I burst into tears a dozen different times,
and in such affectionate gusts of passion, that she was constrained to leave the room, and
sympathize in her dressing-room. I have been weeping for you both, said she, in a tone of the
sweetest pity--for poor L.'s heart, I have long known it--her anguish is as sharp as yours--her
heart as tender--her constancy as great--her virtues as heroic--Heaven brought you not together
to be tormented. I could only answer her with a kind look, and a heavy sigh, and returned home
to your lodgings (which I have hired till your return) to resign myself to misery. Fanny had
prepared me a supper--she is all attention to me--but I sat over it with tears; a bitter sauce,
my L., but I could eat it with no other; for the moment she began to spread my little table,
my heart fainted within me. One solitary plate, one knife, one fork, one glass! O thou! blessed
in thyself, and in thy virtues, blessed to all that know thee--to me most so, because more
do I know of thee than all thy sex. This is the philtre, my L., by which thou hast charmed
me, and by which thou wilt hold me thine, while virtue and faith hold this world together.
This, my friend, is the plain and simple magic, by which I told Miss ---- I have won a place
in that heart of thine, on which I depend so satisfied, that time, or distance, or change of
everything which might alarm the hearts of little men, create no uneasy suspense in mine. Wast
thou to stay in S---- these seven years, thy friend, though he would grieve, scorns to doubt,
or to be doubted--'tis the only exception where security is not the parent of danger.

I told you poor Fanny was all attention to me since your departure--contrives every day bringing
in the name of L. She told me last night (upon giving me some hartshorn), she had observed
my illness began the very day of your departure for S----; that I had never held up my head,
had seldom, or scarce ever, smiled, had fled from all society; that she verily believed I was
broken-hearted, for she had never entered the room, or passed by the door, but she heard me
sigh heavily; that I neither eat, or slept, or took pleasure in anything as before. Judge then,
my L., can the valley look so well, or the roses and jessamines smell so sweet as heretofore?
Ah me! but adieu--the vesper bell calls me from thee to my GOD.

To DAVID GARRICK

Le chevalier Shandy

Paris, 19 March, 1762.

DEAR GARRICK,

This will be put into your hands by Dr. Shippen, a physician, who has been here some time with
Miss Poyntz, and is at this moment setting out for your metropolis; so I snatch the opportunity
of writing to you and my kind friend Mrs. Garrick. You'll think me as vain as a devil, was
I to tell you the rest of the dialogue; whether the bearer knows it or no, I know not. 'Twill
serve up after supper, in Southampton-street, amongst other small dishes, after the fatigues
of Richard III. O God! they have nothing here, which gives the nerves so smart a blow, as those
great characters in the hands of Garrick! but I forgot I am writing to the man himself. The
devil take (as he will) these transports of enthusiasm! Apropos, the whole city of Paris is
bewitched with the comic opera, and if it was not for the affair of the Jesuits, which takes
up one half of our talk, the comic opera would have it all. It is a tragical nuisance in all
companies as it is, and was it not for some sudden starts and dashes of Shandeism, which now
and then either break the thread, or entangle it so, that the devil himself would be puzzled
in winding it off, I should die a martyr--this by the way I never will.

I send you over some of these comic operas by the bearer, with the Sallon, a satire. Dumesnil,
in some places, still greater than her; yet I cannot bear preaching--I fancy I got a surfeit
of it in my younger days. There is a tragedy to be damned to-night--peace be with it, and the
gentle brain which made it! I have ten thousand things to tell you I cannot write, I do a thousand
things which cut no figure, but in the doing--and as in London, I have the honour of having
done and said a thousand things I never did or dreamed of--and yet I dream abundantly. If the
devil stood behind me in the shape of a courier, I could not write faster than I do, having
five letters more to dispatch by the same gentleman; he is going into another section of the
globe, and when he has seen you, will depart in peace.

The Duke of Orleans has suffered my portrait to be added to the number of some odd men in his
collection; and a gentleman who lives with him has taken it most expressively, at full length:
I purpose to obtain an etching of it, and to send it you. Your prayer for me of rosy health
is heard. If I stay here for three or four months, I shall return more than reinstated. My
love to Mrs. Garrick.

To MR. FOLEY AT PARIS

An adventure on the road

Toulouse, 14 Aug. 1762.

MY DEAR FOLEY,

After many turnings (alias digressions), to say nothing of downright overthrows, stops, and
delays, we have arrived in three weeks at Toulouse, and are now settled in our houses with
servants, &c., about us, and look as composed as if we had been here seven years. Nothing was
to be done! By heaven, quoth I, pulling off my coat and waistcoat, something shall be done,
for I'll thrash you both within an inch of your lives, and then make you take each of you a
horse, and ride like two devils to the next post for a cart to carry my baggage, and a wheel
to carry ourselves. Our luggage weighed ten quintals. It was the fair of Baucaire, all the
world was going, or returning; we were asked by every soul who passed by us, if we were going
to the fair of Baucaire.

This day being in the palace of his Highness the Duke of Modena, he laid his most serene commands
upon me to write to Mr. West, and said he thought it for his glory, that I should draw up an
inventory of all his most serene possessions for the said West's perusal. Imprimis, a house,
being in circumference a quarter of a mile, two feet and an inch; the said house containing
the following particulars, to wit, a great room. Item, another great room; item, a bigger room;
item, another room; item, a vast room; item, a sixth of the same; a seventh ditto; an eighth
as before; a ninth as above said; a tenth (see No. 1); item, ten more such, besides twenty
besides, which, not to be too particular, we shall pass over. The said rooms contain nine chairs,
two tables, five stools and a cricket. From whence we shall proceed to the garden, containing
two millions of superfine laurel hedges, a clump of cypress trees, and half the river Teverone.--Finis.
Dame Nature desired me to put in a list of her little goods and chattels, and, as they were
small, to be very minute about them. To get out of our metaphors without any further trouble,
it is the most noble sight in the world. The weight of that quantity of waters, and the force
they fall with, have worn the rocks they throw themselves among into a thousand irregular craggs,
and to a vast depth. On the other, the open Campagna of Rome, here and there a little castle
on a hillock, and the city itself at the very brink of the horizon, indistinctly seen (being
eighteen miles off) except the dome of St. Peter's; which, if you look out of your window,
wherever you are, I suppose, you can see. I did not tell you that a little below the first
fall, on the side of the rock, and hanging over that torrent, are little ruins which they show
you for Horace's house, a curious situation to observe the

  Praeceps Anio et Tiburni lucus, et uda
  Mobilibus pomaria rivis.

Maecenas did not care for such a noise, it seems, and built him a house (which they also carry
one to see) so situated that it sees nothing at all of the matter, and for anything he knew
there might be no such river in the world. Horace had another house on the other side of the
Teverone, opposite to Maecenas's; and they told us there was a bridge of communication, by
which andava il detto Signor per trastullarsi coll' istesso Orazio. In coming hither we crossed
the Aquae Albulae, a vile little brook that stinks like a fury, and they say it has stunk so
these thousand years. I forgot the Piscina of Quintilius Varus, where he used to keep certain
little fishes. This is very entire, and there is a piece of the aqueduct that supplied it too;
in the garden below is old Rome, built in little, just as it was, they say. There are seven
temples in it, and no houses at all; they say there were none.

TO THE SAME

A poet's melancholy

London, 27 May, 1742.

Mine, you are to know is a white Melancholy, or rather Leucocholy for the most part; which,
though it seldom laughs or dances, nor ever amounts to what one called Joy or Pleasure, yet
is a good easy sort of a state, and ça ne laisse que de s'amuser. The only fault is its insipidity;
which is apt now and then to give a sort of Ennui, which makes one form certain little wishes
that signify nothing. But there is another sort, black indeed, which I have now and then felt,
that has somewhat in it like Tertullian's rule of faith, Credo quia impossibile est; for it
believes, nay, is sure of everything that is unlikely, so it be but frightful; and on the other
hand excludes and shuts its eyes to the most possible hopes, and everything that is pleasurable;
from this the Lord deliver us! for none but he and sunshiny weather can do it. In hopes of
enjoying this kind of weather I am going into the country for a few weeks, but shall be never
the nearer any society; so, if you have any charity, you will continue to write. My life is
like Harry the Fourth's supper of Hens, 'Poulets à la broche, Poulets en Ragoût, Poulets en
Hâchis, Poulets en Fricassées '. Reading here, Reading there; nothing but books with different
sauces. Do not let me lose my desert then; for though that be Reading too, yet it has a very
different flavour. The May seems to be come since your invitation; and I propose to bask in
her beams and dress me in her roses.

  Et caput in verna semper habere rosa.

I shall see Mr. ---- and his Wife, nay, and his Child, too, for he has got a Boy. Is it not
odd to consider one's Cotemporaries in the grave light of Husband and Father? There is my lords
Sandwich and Halifax, they are Statesmen: Do not you remember them dirty boys playing at cricket?
As for me, I am never a bit the older, nor the bigger, nor the wiser than I was then: no, not
for having been beyond sea. Pray, how are you?...

To HORACE WALPOLE

The fate of Selima

Cambridge, 1 March, 1747.

Which interval is the more convenient, as it gives time to rejoice with you on your new honours.
This is only a beginning; I reckon next week we shall hear you are a free-Mason, or a Gormorgon
at least.

... There's a poem for you, it is rather too long for an Epitaph.

TO THE SAME

Publication of the Elegy

Cambridge, 11 Feb. 1751.

As you have brought me into a little sort of distress, you must assist me, I believe, to get
out of it as well as I can. Yesterday I had the misfortune of receiving a letter from certain
gentlemen (as their bookseller expresses it), who have taken the Magazine of Magazines into
their hands. If you behold the Magazine of Magazines in the light that I do, you will not refuse
to give yourself this trouble on my account, which you have taken of your own accord before
now. If Dodsley do not do this immediately, he may as well let it alone.

TO THE SAME

At Burnham

[Burnham,] Sept. 1737.

I was hindered in my last, and so could not give you all the trouble I would have done. The
description of a road, which your coach wheels have so often honoured, it would be needless
to give you; suffice it that I arrived safe at my uncle's, who is a great hunter in imagination;
his dogs take up every chair in the house, so I am forced to stand at this present writing;
and though the gout forbids him galloping after them in the field, yet he continues to regale
his ears and nose with their comfortable noise and stink. He holds me mighty cheap, I perceive,
for walking when I should ride, and reading when I should hunt.

  And as they bow their hoary tops relate,
  In murm'ring sounds, the dark decrees of fate;
  While visions, as poetic eyes avow,
  Cling to each leaf, and swarm on every bough.

At the foot of one of these squats ME I (ilpenseroso), and there grow to the trunk for a whole
morning. The timorous hare and sportive squirrel gambol round me like Adam in Paradise, before
he had an Eve; but I think he did not use to read Virgil, as I commonly do there. In this situation
I often converse with my Horace, aloud too, that is talk to you, but I do not remember that
I ever heard you answer me. I beg pardon for taking all the conversation to myself, but it
is entirely your own fault....

To THE REV. WILLIAM MASON

The Laureateship

19 Dec. 1757.

DEAR MASON,

Though I very well know the bland emollient saponaceous qualities both of sack and silver,
yet if any great man would say to me, 'I make you Rat-catcher to his Majesty, with a salary
of £300 a-year and two butts of the best Malaga; and though it has been usual to catch a mouse
or two, for form's sake, in public once a year, yet to you, sir, we shall not stand on these
things,' I cannot say I should jump at it; nay, if they would drop the very name of the office,
and call me Sinecure to the King's Majesty, I should feel a little awkward, and think everybody
I saw smelt a rat about me; but I do not pretend to blame any one else that has not the same
sensations; for my part, I would rather be serjeant trumpeter or pinmaker to the palace. Nevertheless
I interest myself a little in the history of it, and rather wish somebody may accept it who
will retrieve the credit of the thing, if it be retrieveable, or ever had any credit. Rowe
was, I think, the last man of character that had it. As to Settle, whom you mention, he belonged
to my lord mayor, not to the King. Eusden was a person of great hopes in his youth, though
at last he turned out a drunken person. Dryden was as disgraceful to the office from his character,
as the poorest scribbler could have been from his verses.

To DR. WHARTON

A holiday in Kent

Pembroke College, 26 Aug. 1766. Stonehewer perhaps is in the country (for he hoped for a month's
leave of absence), and if you see him you will learn more than I can tell you.

To GEORGE, LORD LYTTELTON

Gray's Odes

Strawberry Hill, 25 Aug. 1757.

MY LORD,

It is a satisfaction one can't often receive, to show a thing of great merit to a man of great
taste. Your Lordship's approbation is conclusive, and it stamps a disgrace on the age, who
have not given themselves the trouble to see any beauties in these Odes of Mr. Gray. They have
cast their eyes over them, found them obscure, and looked no further, yet perhaps no compositions
ever had more sublime beauties than are in each. I agree with your Lordship in preferring the
last upon the whole; the three first stanzas and half, down to agonizing King, are in my opinion
equal to anything in any language I understand. Yet the three last of the first Ode please
me very near as much. The description of Shakespeare is worthy Shakespeare: the account of
Milton's blindness, though perhaps not strictly defensible, is very majestic. The character
of Dryden's poetry is as animated as what it paints. I can even like the epithet Orient; as
the last is the empire of fancy and poesy, I would allow its livery to be erected into a colour.
I think blue-eyed Pleasures is allowable: when Homer gave eyes of what hue he pleased to his
Queen-Goddesses, sure Mr. Gray may tinge those of their handmaids.

In answer to your Lordship's objection to many-twinkling, in that beautiful epode, I will quote
authority to which you will yield. As Greek as the expression is, it struck Mrs. Garrick, and
she says, on that whole picture, that Mr. Gray is the only poet who ever understood dancing.

These faults I think I can defend, and can excuse others; even the great obscurity of the latter,
for I do not see it in the first; the subject of it has been taken for music,--it is the Power
and Progress of Harmonious Poetry. I think his objection to prefixing a title to it was wrong--that
Mr. Cooke published an ode with such a title. If the Louis the Great, whom Voltaire has discovered
in Hungary, had not disappeared from history himself, would not Louis Quatorze have annihilated
him? I was aware that the second would have darknesses, and prevailed for the insertion of
what notes there are, and would have had more. Mr. Gray said, whatever wanted explanation did
not deserve it, but that sentence was never so far from being an axiom as in the present case.
Not to mention how he had shackled himself with strophe, antistrophe, and epode (yet acquitting
himself nobly), the nature of prophecy forbade him naming his kings. To me they are apparent
enough--yet I am far from thinking either piece perfect, though with what faults they have,
I hold them in the first rank of genius and poetry. The second strophe of the first Ode is
inexcusable, nor do I wonder your Lordship blames it; even when one does understand it, perhaps
the last line is too turgid. I am not fond of the antistrophe that follows. In the second Ode
he made some corrections for the worse. Brave Urion was originally stern: brave is insipid
and commonplace. In the third antistrophe, leave me unblessed, unpitied, stood at first, leave
your despairing Caradoc. But the capital faults in my opinion are these--what punishment was
it to Edward I to hear that his grandson would conquer France? or is so common an event as
Edward III being deserted on his death-bed, worthy of being made part of a curse that was to
avenge a nation? I can't cast my eye here, without crying out on those beautiful lines that
follow, Fair smiles the morn? Though the images are extremely complicated, what painting in
the whirlwind, likened to a lion lying in ambush for his evening prey, in grim repose. Thirst
and hunger mocking Richard II appear to me too ludicrously like the devils in The Tempest,
that whisk away the banquet from the shipwrecked Dukes. From thence to the conclusion of Queen
Elizabeth's portrait, which he has faithfully copied from Speed, in the passage where she humbled
the Polish Ambassador, I admire. I can even allow that image of Rapture hovering like an ancient
grotesque, though it strictly has little meaning: but there I take my leave--the last stanza
has no beauties for me. I even think its obscurity fortunate, for the allusions to Spenser,
Shakespeare, Milton, are not only weak, but the two last returning again, after appearing so
gloriously in the first Ode, and with so much fainter colours, enervate the whole conclusion.

Your Lordship sees that I am no enthusiast to Mr. Gray: his great lustre has not dazzled me,
as his obscurity seems to have blinded his contemporaries. Indeed, I do not think that they
ever admired him, except in his Churchyard, though the Eton Ode was far its superior, and is
certainly not obscure. The Eton Ode is perfect: those of more masterly execution have defects,
yet not to admire them is total want of taste. I have an aversion to tame poetry; at best,
perhaps the art is the sublimest of the difficiles nugae; to measure or rhyme prose is trifling
without being difficult. Our long, very long friendship, and his genius, must endear to me
everything that relates to him. What writings has he left? Who are his executors?

To THE REV. WILLIAM MASON

The quarrel with Gray

2 March, 1773.

What shall I say?

To THE COUNTESS OF UPPER OSSORY

Fashionable intelligence

Strawberry Hill, 27 March, 1773.

What play makes you laugh very much, and yet is a very wretched comedy? Dr. Goldsmith's She
Stoops to Conquer. Stoops indeed!--so she does, that is the Muse; she is draggled up to the
knees, and has trudged, I believe, from Southwark fair. The whole view of the piece is low
humour, and no humour is in it. All the merit is in the situations, which are comic; the heroine
has no more modesty than Lady Bridget, and the author's wit is as much manqué as the lady's;
but some of the characters are well acted, and Woodward speaks a poor prologue, written by
Garrick, admirably.

You perceive, Madam, that I have boldly sallied to a play; but the heat of the house and of
this sultry March half killed me, yet I limp about as if I was young and pleased. From the
play I travelled to Upper Grosvenor Street, to Lady Edgecumbe's, supped at Lady Hertford's.
That Maccaroni rake, Lady Powis, who is just come to her estate and spending it, calling in
with news of a fire in the Strand at past one in the morning, Lady Hertford, Lady Powis, Mrs.
Howe, and I, set out to see it, and were within an inch of seeing the Adelphi buildings burnt
to the ground. I was to have gone to the Oratorio next night for Miss Linley's sake, but, being
engaged to the French ambassador's ball afterwards, I thought I was not quite Hercules enough
for so many labours, and declined the former.

The house was all arbours and bowers, but rather more approaching to Calcutta, where so many
English were stewed to death; for as the Queen would not dis-Maid of Honour herself of Miss
Vernon till after the Oratorio, the ball-room was not opened till she arrived, and we were
penned together in the little hall till we could not breathe. The quadrilles were very pretty:
Mrs. Darner, Lady Sefton, Lady Melbourne, and the Princess Czartoriski in blue satin, with
blond and collets montés à la reine Elizabeth; Lord Robert Spencer, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Lord Carlisle,
and I forget whom, in like dresses with red sashes, derouge, black hats with diamond loops
and a few feathers before, began; then the Henri Quatres and Quatresses, who were Lady Craven,
Miss Minching, the two Misses Vernons, Mr. Storer, Mr. Hanger, the Duc de Lauzun, and George
Damer, all in white, the men with black hats and white feathers napping behind, danced another
quadrille, and then both quadrilles joined; after which Mrs. Hobart, all in gauze and spangles,
like a spangle-pudding, a Miss I forget, Lord Edward Bentinck, and a Mr. Corbet, danced a pas-de-quatre,
in which Mrs. Hobart indeed performed admirably.

The fine Mrs. Matthews in white, trimmed down all the neck and petticoat with scarlet cock's
feathers, appeared like a new macaw brought from Otaheite; but of all the pretty creatures
next to the Carrara (who was not there) was Mrs. Bunbury; so that with her I was in love till
one o'clock, and then came home to bed. The Duchess of Queensberry had a round gown of rose-colour,
with a man's cape, which, with the stomacher and sleeves, was all trimmed with mother-of-pearl
earrings. This Pindaric gown was a sudden thought to surprise the Duke, with whom she had dined
in another dress. Did you ever see so good a joke?...

Lord Chesterfield was dead before my last letter that foretold his death set out. Alas! I shall
have no more of his lively sayings, Madam, to send you. Oh yes! I have his last: being told
of the quarrel in Spitalfields, and even that Mrs. F[itzroy] struck Miss P[oole], he said,
I always thought Mrs. F. a striking beauty.'

Thus, having given away all his wit to the last farthing, he has left nothing but some poor
witticisms in his will, tying up his heir by forfeitures and jokes from going to Newmarket.

I wrote this letter at Strawberry, and find nothing new in town to add but a cold north-east
that has brought back all our fires and furs. Pray tell me a little of your Ladyship's futurity,
and whether you will deign to pass through London.

TO THE REV. WILLIAM COLE

Antiquaries and authors

Arlington Street, 27 April, 1773.

... Mr. Gough wants to be introduced to me! Indeed!

TO THE MISS BERRYS

Their first meeting

Tuesday night, 8 o'clock, 17 Sept. 1793. While Oliver Goldsmith lives, know you have a friend.

TO HIS UNCLE CONTARINE

In Holland,

Leyden, April or May, 1754.

DEAR SIR,

I suppose by this time I am accused of either neglect or ingratitude, and my silence imputed
to my usual slowness of writing. But believe me, Sir, when I say, that till now I had not an
opportunity of sitting down with that ease of mind which writing required. You may see by the
top of the letter that I am at Leyden; but of my journey hither you must be informed. Some
time after the receipt of your last, I embarked for Bordeaux, on board a Scotch ship called
the St. Andrews, Capt. John Wall, master. The ship made a tolerable appearance, and as another
inducement, I was let to know that six agreeable passengers were to be my company. Well, we
were but two days at sea when a storm drove us into a city of England called Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
We all went ashore to refresh us after the fatigue of our voyage. Seven men and I were one
day on shore, and on the following evening as we were all very merry, the room door bursts
open, enters a sergeant and twelve grenadiers with their bayonets screwed, and puts us all
under the King's arrest. It seems my company were Scotchmen in the French service, and had
been in Scotland to enlist soldiers for the French army. I endeavoured all I could to prove
my innocence; however, I remained in prison with the rest a fortnight, and with difficulty
got off even then. Dear Sir, keep this all a secret, or at least say it was for debt; for if
it were once known at the University, I should hardly get a degree. But hear how Providence
interposed in my favour; the ship was gone on to Bordeaux before I got from prison, and was
wrecked at the mouth of the Garonne, and every one of the crew were drowned. It happened the
last great storm. There was a ship at that time ready for Holland. I embarked, and in nine
days, thank my God, I arrived safe at Rotterdam; whence I travelled by land to Leyden; and
whence I now write.

You may expect some account of this country, and though I am not well qualified for such an
undertaking, yet shall I endeavour to satisfy some part of your expectations. Nothing surprised
me more than the books every day published, descriptive of the manners of this country. Any
young man who takes it into his head to publish his travels, visits the countries he intends
to describe; passes through them with as much inattention as his valet de chambre; and consequently
not having a fund himself to fill a volume, he applies to those who wrote before him, and gives
us the manners of a country, not as he must have seen them, but such as they might have been
fifty years before. I am not certain how long my stay here may be; however, I expect to have
the happiness of seeing you at Kilmore, if I can, next March.

Direct to me, if I am honoured with a letter from you, to Madam Diallion's at Leyden.

Thou best of men, may Heaven guard and preserve you, and those you love.

TO HIS BROTHER HENRY

Family matters

1759.

The following occurrence ought not to be passed over in silence, in a place where so few notable
ones are to be met with. Last Wednesday night, while we were at supper, between the hours of
eight and nine, I heard an unusual noise in the back parlour, as if one of the hares was entangled,
and endeavouring to disengage herself. I was just going to rise from table, when it ceased.
In about five minutes, a voice on the outside of the parlour door inquired if one of my hares
had got away. I immediately rushed into the next room, and found that my poor favourite Puss
had made her escape. She had gnawed in sunder the strings of a lattice work, with which I thought
I had sufficiently secured the window, and which I preferred to any other sort of blind, because
it admitted plenty of air. From thence I hastened to the kitchen, where I saw the redoubtable
Thomas Freeman, who told me, that having seen her, just after she had dropped into the street,
he attempted to cover her with his hat, but she screamed out, and leaped directly over his
head. I then desired him to pursue as fast as possible, and added Richard Coleman to the chase,
as being nimbler, and carrying less weight than Thomas; not expecting to see her again, but
desirous to learn, if possible, what became of her. In something less than an hour, Richard
returned, almost breathless, with the following account. That soon after he began to run, he
left Tom behind him, and came in sight of a most numerous hunt of men, women, children, and
dogs; that he did his best to keep back the dogs, and presently outstripped the crowd, so that
the race was at last disputed between himself and Puss;--she ran right through the town, and
down the lane that leads to Dropshort; a little before she came to the house, he got the start
and turned her; she pushed for the town again, and soon after she entered it, sought shelter
in Mr. Wagstaff's tanyard, adjoining to old Mr. Drake's. Sturges's harvest men were at supper,
and saw her from the opposite side of the way. There she encountered the tanpits full of water;
and while she was struggling out of one pit, and plunging into another, and almost drowned,
one of the men drew her out by the ears, and secured her. She was then well washed in a bucket
to get the lime out of her coat, and brought home in a sack at ten o'clock.

This frolic cost us four shillings, but you may believe we did not grudge a farthing of it.
The poor creature received only a little hurt in one of her claws, and in one of her ears,
and is now almost as well as ever.

I do not call this an answer to your letter, but such as it is I send it, presuming upon that
interest which I know you take in my minutest concerns, which I cannot express better than
in the words of Terence a little varied--Nihil mei a te alienum putas.

TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN

A laugh that hurts nobody

18 Nov. 1782.

MY DEAR WILLIAM,

... I little thought when I was writing the history of John Gilpin, that he would appear in
print--I intended to laugh, and to make two or three others laugh, of whom you were one. But
now all the world laughs, at least if they have the same relish for a tale ridiculous in itself,
and quaintly told, as we have.--Well--they do not always laugh so innocently, or at so small
an expense--for in a world like this, abounding with subjects for satire, and with satirical
wits to mark them, a laugh that hurts nobody has at least the grace of novelty to recommend
it. Swift's darling motto was, Vive la bagatelle--a good wish for a philosopher of his complexion,
the greater part of whose wisdom, whencesoever it came, most certainly came not from above.
La bagatelle has no enemy in me, though it has neither so warm a friend, nor so able a one,
as it had in him. If I trifle, and merely trifle, it is because I am reduced to it by necessity--a
melancholy, that nothing else so effectually disperses, engages me sometimes in the arduous
task of being merry by force. To say truth, it would be but a shocking vagary, should the mariners
on board a ship buffeted by a terrible storm, employ themselves in fiddling and dancing; yet
sometimes much such a part act I....

To THE REV. JOHN NEWTON

Village politicians

26 Jan. 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

It is reported among persons of the best intelligence at Olney--the barber, the schoolmaster,
and the drummer of a corps quartered at this place,--that the belligerent powers are at last
reconciled, the articles of the treaty adjusted, and that peace is at the door. I saw this
morning, at nine o'clock, a group of about twelve figures very closely engaged in a conference,
as I suppose, upon the same subject. The scene of consultation was a blacksmith's shed, very
comfortably screened from the wind, and directly opposed to the morning sun. Some held their
hands behind them, some had them folded across their bosom, and others had thrust them into
their breeches pockets. Every man's posture bespoke a pacific turn of mind; but the distance
being too great for their words to reach me, nothing transpired. I am willing, however, to
hope that the secret will not be a secret long, and that you and I, equally interested in the
event, though not, perhaps, equally well-informed, shall soon have an opportunity to rejoice
in the completion of it. The powers of Europe have clashed with each other to a fine purpose;
that the Americans, at length declared independent, may keep themselves so, if they can; and
that what the parties, who have thought proper to dispute upon that point, have wrested from
each other in the course of the conflict, may be, in the issue of it, restored to the proper
owner. Nations may be guilty of a conduct that would render an individual infamous for ever;
and yet carry their heads high, talk of their glory, and despise their neighbours. Your opinions
and mine, I mean our political ones, are not exactly of a piece, yet I cannot think otherwise
upon this subject than I have always done. England, more, perhaps, through the fault of her
generals, than her councils, has in some instances acted with a spirit of cruel animosity she
was never chargeable with till now. But this is the worst that can be said. On the other hand,
the Americans, who, if they had contented themselves with a struggle for lawful liberty, would
have deserved applause, seem to me to have incurred the guilt of parricide, by renouncing their
parent, by making her ruin their favourite object, and by associating themselves with her worst
enemy, for the accomplishment of their purpose. France, and of course Spain, have acted a treacherous,
a thievish part. They have stolen America from England, and whether they are able to possess
themselves of that jewel or not hereafter, it was doubtless what they intended. Holland appears
to me in a meaner light than any of them. They quarrelled with a friend for an enemy's sake.
The French led them by the nose, and the English have threshed them for suffering it. My views
of the contest being, and having been always such, I have consequently brighter hopes for England
than her situation some time since seemed to justify. She is the only injured party. America
may, perhaps, call her the aggressor; but if she were so, America has not only repelled the
injury, but done a greater. As to the rest, if perfidy, treachery, avarice, and ambition can
prove their cause to have been a rotten one, those proofs are found upon them. I think, therefore,
that whatever scourge may be prepared for England, on some future day, her ruin is not yet
to be expected. Some madman or some devil has broke loose, who it is to be hoped will pay dear
for these effusions of his malignity. Mr. Teedon has been here, and is gone again. He came
to thank me for an old pair of breeches.

MY DEAREST COUSIN,

Whose last most affectionate letter has run in my head ever since I received it, and which
I now sit down to answer two days sooner than the post will serve me; I thank you for it, and
with a warmth for which I am sure you will give me credit, though I do not spend many words
in describing it. I do not seek new friends, not being altogether sure that I should find them,
but have unspeakable pleasure in being still beloved by an old one. I hope that now our correspondence
has suffered its last interruption, and that we shall go down together to the grave, chatting
and chirping as merrily as such a scene of things as this will permit.

I am happy that my poems have pleased you. My volume has afforded me no such pleasure at any
time, either while I was writing it, or since its publication, as I have derived from yours
and my uncle's opinion of it. I make certain allowances for partiality, and for that peculiar
quickness of taste, with which you both relish what you like, and after all drawbacks upon
those accounts duly made, find myself rich in the measure of your approbation that still remains.
But above all, I honour John Gilpin, since it was he who first encouraged you to write. I made
him on purpose to laugh at, and he served his purpose well; but I am now in debt to him for
a more valuable acquisition than all the laughter in the world amounts to, the recovery of
my intercourse with you, which is to me inestimable. My benevolent and generous Cousin, when
I was once asked if I wanted anything, and given delicately to understand that the inquirer
was ready to supply all my occasions, I thankfully and civilly, but positively, declined the
favour. I neither suffer, nor have suffered, any such inconveniences as I had not much rather
endure than come under obligations of that sort to a person comparatively with yourself a stranger
to me. But to you I answer otherwise. I know you thoroughly, and the liberality of your disposition,
and have that consummate confidence in the sincerity of your wish to serve me, that delivers
me from all awkward constraint, and from all fear of trespassing by acceptance. To you, therefore,
I reply, yes. Whensoever, and whatsoever, and in what manner-soever you please; and add moreover,
that my affection for the giver is such as will increase to me tenfold the satisfaction that
I shall have in receiving. It is necessary, however, that I should let you a little into the
state of my finances, that you may not suppose them more narrowly circumscribed than they are.
Since Mrs. Unwin and I have lived at Olney, we have had but one purse, although during the
whole of that time, till lately, her income was nearly double mine. Her revenues indeed are
now in some measure reduced, and do not much exceed my own; the worst consequence of this is,
that we are forced to deny ourselves some things which hitherto we have been better able to
afford, but they are such things as neither life, nor the well-being of life, depend upon.
My own income has been better than it is, but when it was best, it would not have enabled me
to live as my connexions demanded that I should, had it not been combined with a better than
itself, at least at this end of the kingdom. Of this I had full proof during three months that
I spent in lodgings at Huntingdon, in which time by the help of good management, and a clear
notion of economical matters, I contrived to spend the income of a twelvemonth. Now, my beloved
Cousin, you are in possession of the whole case as it stands. Strain no points to your own
inconvenience or hurt, for there is no need of it, but indulge yourself in communicating (no
matter what) that you can spare without missing it, since by so doing you will be sure to add
to the comforts of my life one of the sweetest that I can enjoy--a token and proof of your
affection.

I cannot believe but that I should know you, notwithstanding all that time may have done: there
is not a feature of your face, could I meet it upon the road, by itself, that I should not
instantly recollect. I should say that is my Cousin's nose, or those are her lips and her chin,
and no woman upon earth can claim them but herself. As for me, I am a very smart youth of my
years; I am not indeed grown grey so much as I am grown bald. No matter: there was more hair
in the world than ever had the honour to belong to me; accordingly having found just enough
to curl a little at my ears, and to intermix with a little of my own that still hangs behind,
I appear, if you see me in an afternoon, to have a very decent head-dress, not easily distinguished
from my natural growth, which being worn with a small bag, and a black riband about my neck,
continues to me the charms of my youth, even on the verge of age. Away with the fear of writing
too often!

PS.

TO THE SAME

The kindliness of thanks

30 Nov. 1785.

My dearest cousin,

Your kindness reduces me to a necessity (a pleasant one, indeed), of writing all my letters
in the same terms: always thanks, thanks at the beginning, and thanks at the end. It is however,
I say, a pleasant employment when those thanks are indeed the language of the heart: and I
can truly add, that there is no person on earth whom I thank with so much affection as yourself.
You insisted that I should give you my genuine opinion of the wine. By the way, it arrived
without the least damage or fracture, and I finished the first bottle of it this very day.
It is excellent, and though the wine which I had been used to drink was not bad, far preferable
to that. The bottles will be in town on Saturday. I am enamoured of the desk and its contents
before I see them. They will be most entirely welcome. A few years since I made Mrs. Unwin
a present of a snuff-box--a silver one; the purchase was made in London by a friend; it is
of a size and form that make it more fit for masculine than feminine use. She therefore with
pleasure accepts the box which you have sent--I should say with the greatest pleasure. And
I, discarding the leathern trunk that I have used so long, shall succeed to the possession
of hers. She says, Tell Lady Hesketh that I truly love and honour her. Now, my Cousin, you
may depend upon it, as a most certain truth, that these words from her lips are not an empty
sound. I never in my life heard her profess a regard for any one that she felt not. She is
not addicted to the use of such language upon ordinary occasions; but when she speaks it, speaks
from the heart. She has baited me this many a day, even as a bear is baited, to send for Dr.
Kerr. But, as I hinted to you upon a former occasion, I am as mulish as most men are, and have
hitherto most ungallantly refused; but what is to be done now?--If it were uncivil not to comply
with the solicitations of one lady, to be unmoved by the solicitations of two would prove me
to be a bear indeed. I will, therefore, summon him to consideration of said stomach, and its
ailments, without delay, and you shall know the result.--I have read Goldsmith's Traveller
and his Deserted Village, and am highly pleased with them both, as well for the manner in which
they are executed, as for their tendency, and the lessons that they inculcate.

Mrs. Unwin said to me a few nights since, after supper, 'I have two fine fowls in feeding,
and just fit for use; I wonder whether I should send them to Lady Hesketh?' I replied, Yes,
by all means! and I will tell you a story that will at once convince you of the propriety of
doing so. My brother was curate on a time to Mr. Fawkes, of Orpington, in Kent: it was when
I lived in the Temple. One morning, as I was reading by the fireside, I heard a prodigious
lumbering at the door. I opened it, and beheld a most rural figure, with very dirty boots,
and a great coat as dirty. Supposing that my great fame as a barrister had drawn upon me a
client from some remote region, I desired him to walk in. He did so, and introduced himself
to my acquaintance by telling me that he was the farmer with whom my brother lodged at Orpington.
After this preliminary information he unbuttoned his great coat, and I observed a quantity
of long feathers projected from an inside pocket. He thrust in his hand, and with great difficulty
extricated a great fat capon. He then proceeded to lighten the other side of him, by dragging
out just such another, and begged my acceptance of both. I sent them to a tavern, where they
were dressed, and I with two or three friends, whom I invited to the feast, found them incomparably
better than any fowls we had ever tasted from the London co-ops. Now, said I to Mrs. Unwin,
it is likely that the fowls at Olney may be as good as the fowls at Orpington, therefore send
them; for it is not possible to make so good a use of them in any other way ... Adieu, my faithful,
kind, and consolatory friend!

TO THE SAME

Arrival of the desk

7 Dec. 1785.

My dear cousin,

At this time last night I was writing to you, and now I am writing to you again ... My dear,
you say not a word about the desk in your last, which I received this morning. I infer from
your silence that you supposed it either at Olney or on its way thither, and that you expected
nothing so much as that my next would inform you of its safe arrival;--therefore, where can
it possibly be? I am not absolutely in despair about it, for the reasons that I mentioned last
night; but to say the truth, I stand tottering upon the verge of it. I write, and have written
these many years, upon a book of maps, which I now begin to find too low and too flat, though
till I expected a better desk, I found no fault with them. See and observe how true it is,
that by increasing the number of our conveniences, we multiply our wants exactly in the same
proportion! neither can I at all doubt that if you were to tell me that all the men in London
of any fashion at all, wore black velvet shoes with white roses, and should also tell me that
you would send me such, I should dance with impatience till they arrived. Not because I care
one farthing of what materials my shoes are made, but because any shoes of your sending would
interest me from head to foot.

Thursday Evening.

Oh that this letter had wings, that it might fly to tell you that my desk, the most elegant,
the compactest, the most commodious desk in the world, and of all the desks that ever were
or ever shall be, the desk that I love the most, is safe arrived. Nay, my dear, it was actually
at Sherrington, when the wagoner's wife (for the man himself was not at home) croaked out her
abominable No! yet she examined the bill of lading, but either did it so carelessly, or as
poor Dick Madan used to say, with such an ignorant eye, that my name escaped her. My precious
Cousin, you have bestowed too much upon me. I have nothing to render you in return, but the
affectionate feelings of a heart most truly sensible of your kindness. How pleasant it is to
write upon such a green bank! I am sorry that I have so nearly reached the end of my paper.
I have now however only room to say that Mrs. Unwin is delighted with her box, and bids me
do more than thank you for it. What can I do more at this distance but say that she loves you
heartily, and that so do I? The pocket-book is also the completest that I ever saw, and the
watch-chain the most brilliant.

Adieu for a little while. Now for Homer.

N.B.--I generally write the day before the post sets out, which is the thing that puzzles you.
I do it that I may secure time for the purpose, and may not be hurried. On this very day twenty-two
years ago I left London.

TO THE SAME

Commissions and thanks

The Lodge, 24 Dec. 1786.

You must by no means, my dearest Coz, pursue the plan that has suggested itself to you on the
supposed loss of your letter. In the first place I choose that my Sundays, like the Sundays
of other people, shall be distinguished by something that shall make me look forward to them
with agreeable expectation, and for that reason desire that they may always bring me a letter
from you. In the next place, if I know when to expect a letter, I know likewise when to inquire
after a letter, if it happens not to come; a circumstance of some importance, considering how
excessively careless they are at the Swan, where letters are sometimes overlooked, and do not
arrive at their destination, if no inquiry be made, till some days have passed since their
arrival at Olney. It has happened frequently to me to receive a letter long after all the rest
have been delivered, and the Padre assured me that Mr. Throckmorton has sent notes three several
times to Mrs. Marriot, complaining of this neglect. For these reasons, my dear, thou must write
still on Saturdays, and as often on other days as thou pleasest.

The screens came safe, and one of them is at this moment interposed between me and the fire,
much to the comfort of my peepers. The other of them being fitted up with a screw that was
useless, I have consigned it to proper hands, that it may be made as serviceable as its brother.
They are very neat, and I account them a great acquisition. Our carpenter assures me that the
lameness of the chairs was not owing to any injury received in their journey, but that the
maker never properly finished them. They were not high when they came, and in order to reduce
them to a level, we have lowered them an inch. Thou knowest, child, that the short foot could
not be lengthened, for which reason we shortened the long ones. The box containing the plate
and the brooms reached us yesterday, and nothing had suffered the least damage by the way.
Everything is smart, everything is elegant, and we admire them all. The short candlesticks
are short enough. I am now writing with those upon the table; Mrs. U. is reading opposite,
and they suit us both exactly. With the money that you have in hand, you may purchase, my dear,
at your most convenient time, a tea-urn; that which we have at present having never been handsome,
and being now old and patched. A parson once, as he walked across the parlour, pushed it down
with his belly, and it never perfectly recovered itself. We want likewise a tea-waiter, meaning,
if you please, such a one as you may remember to have seen at the Hall, a wooden one. To which
you may add, from the same fund, three or four yards of yard-wide muslin, wherewithal to make
neckcloths for my worship. If after all these disbursements anything should be left at the
bottom of the purse, we shall be obliged to you if you will expend it in the purchase of silk
pocket-handkerchiefs. There, my precious--I think I have charged thee with commissions in plenty.

You neither must nor shall deny us the pleasure of sending to you such small matters as we
do. As to the partridges, you may recollect possibly, when I remind you of it, that I never
eat them; they refuse to pass my stomach; and Mrs. Unwin rejoiced in receiving them only because
she could pack them away to you--therefore never lay us under any embargoes of this kind, for
I tell you beforehand, that we are both incorrigible. My beloved Cousin, the first thing that
I open my eyes upon in a morning, is it not the bed in which you have laid me? Did you not,
in our old dismal parlour at Olney, give me the tea on which I breakfast?--the chocolate that
I drank at noon, and the table at which I dine?--the everything, in short, that I possess in
the shape of convenience, is it not all from you? and is it possible, think you, that we should
either of us overlook an opportunity of making such a tiny acknowledgement of your kindness?
Assure yourself that never, while my name is Giles Gingerbread, will I dishonour my glorious
ancestry, and my illustrious appellation, by so unworthy a conduct. I love you at my heart,
and so does Mrs. U., and we must say thank you, and send you a peppercorn when we can. So thank
you, my dear, for the brawn and the chine, and for all the good things that you announce, and
at present I will, for your sake, say no more of thanksgiving.

TO MRS. BODHAM

His mother's portrait

Weston, 27 Feb. 1790.

MY DEAREST ROSE,

Whom I thought withered, and fallen from the stalk, but whom I still find alive: nothing could
give me greater pleasure than to know it, and to hear it from yourself. I loved you dearly
when you were a child, and love you not a jot the less for having ceased to be so. I was thought
in the days of my childhood much to resemble my mother; and in my natural temper, of which
at the age of fifty-eight I must be supposed to be a competent judge, can trace both her, and
my late uncle, your father. Somewhat of his irritability; and a little, I would hope, both
of his and of her--I know not what to call it, without seeming to praise myself, which is not
my intention, but speaking to you, I will even speak out, and say good nature. Add to all this,
I deal much in poetry, as did our venerable ancestor, the Dean of St. Paul's, and I think I
shall have proved myself a Donne at all points. The truth is, that whatever I am, I love you
all. To tell you the truth, I made very few remarks as I rolled along, for my mind was occupied
with many thoughts, and my eyes often filled with tears, when I reflected on all the dear friends
I left behind; yet the prospects could not fail to attract the attention of the most indifferent:
country seats sprinkled round on every side, some in the modern taste, some in the style of
old De Coverley Hall, all smiling on the neat but humble cottage; every village as neat and
compact as a bee-hive, resounding with the busy hum of industry; and inns like palaces.

What a contrast to our poor country, where you'll scarce find a cottage ornamented with a chimney!
But what pleased me most of all was the progress of agriculture, my favourite study, and my
favourite pursuit, if Providence had blessed me with a few paternal acres.

A description of London and its natives would fill a volume. The buildings are very fine: it
may be called the sink of vice: but its hospitals and charitable institutions, whose turrets
pierce the skies like so many electrical conductors, avert the wrath of Heaven. The inhabitants
may be divided into two classes, the undoers and the undone; generally so, I say, for I am
persuaded there are many men of honesty and women of virtue in every street. An Englishman
is cold and distant at first; he is very cautious even in forming an acquaintance; he must
know you well before he enters into friendship with you; but if he does, he is not the first
to dissolve that sacred bond: in short, a real Englishman is one that performs more than he
promises; in company he is rather silent, extremely prudent in his expressions, even in politics,
his favourite topic. The women are not quite so reserved; they consult their glasses to the
best advantage; and as nature is very liberal in her gifts to their persons, and even minds,
it is not easy for a young man to escape their glances, or to shut his ears to their softly
flowing accents.

As to the state of learning in this city, you know I have not been long enough in it to form
a proper judgement of that subject. I don't think, however, there is as much respect paid to
a man of letters on this side of the water as you imagine. I don't find that genius, the 'rath
primrose, which forsaken dies', is patronized by any of the nobility, so that writers of the
first talents are left to the capricious patronage of the public. Notwithstanding discouragement,
literature is cultivated in a high degree. Poetry raises her enchanting voice to Heaven. History
arrests the wings of Time in his flight to the gulf of oblivion. Philosophy, the queen of arts,
and the daughter of Heaven, is daily extending her intellectual empire. Fancy sports on airy
wing like a meteor on the bosom of a summer cloud; and even Metaphysics spins her cobwebs,
and catches some flies.

The House of Commons not unfrequently exhibits explosions of eloquence that rise superior to
those of Greece and Rome, even in their proudest days. Yet, after all, a man will make more
by the figures of arithmetic than the figures of rhetoric, unless he can get into the trade
wind, and then he may sail secure over Pactolean sands. As to the stage, it is sunk, in my
opinion, into the lowest degree; I mean with regard to the trash that is exhibited on it; but
I don't attribute this to the taste of the audience, for when Shakespeare warbles his 'native
woodnotes', the boxes, pit, and gallery, are crowded--and the gods are true to every word,
if properly winged to the heart.

Soon after my arrival in town I visited Westminster Abbey: the moment I entered I felt a kind
of awe pervade my mind which I cannot describe; the very silence seemed sacred. Henry VII's
chapel is a very fine piece of Gothic architecture, particularly the roof; but I am told that
it is exceeded by a chapel in the University of Cambridge. Mrs. Nightingale's monument has
not been praised beyond its merit. The attitude and expression of the husband in endeavouring
to shield his wife from the dart of death, is natural and affecting. But I always thought that
the image of death would be much better represented with an extinguished torch inverted, than
with a dart. Some would imagine that all these monuments were so many monuments of folly;--I
don't think so; what useful lessons of morality and sound philosophy do they not exhibit! When
the high-born beauty surveys her face in the polished Parian, though dumb the marble, yet it
tells her that it was placed to guard the remains of as fine a form, and as fair a face as
her own. They show besides how anxious we are to extend our loves and friendships beyond the
grave, and to snatch as much as we can from oblivion--such is our natural love of immortality;
but it is here that letters obtain the noblest triumphs; it is here that the swarthy daughters
of Cadmus may hang their trophies on high; for when all the pride of the chisel and the pomp
of heraldry yield to the silent touches of time, a single line, a half-worn-out inscription,
remain faithful to their trust. Blest be the man that first introduced these strangers into
our islands, and may they never want protection or merit! I have not the least doubt that the
finest poem in the English language, I mean Milton's Il Penseroso, was composed in the long-resounding
aisle of a mouldering cloister or ivy'd abbey. Yet after all do you know that I would rather
sleep in the southern corner of a little country churchyard, than in the tomb of the Capulets.

To JAMES BARRY

A friend's infirmities

Gregories, 16 Sept. 1769.

MY DEAR BARRY,

I am most exceedingly obliged to your friendship and partiality, which attributed a silence
very blameable on our parts to a favourable cause: let me add in some measure to its true cause,
a great deal of occupation of various sorts, and some of them disagreeable enough.

As to any reports concerning your conduct and behaviour, you may be very sure they could have
no kind of influence here; for none of us are of such a make as to trust to any one's report
for the character of a person whom we ourselves know. Until very lately, I had never heard
anything of your proceedings from others; and when I did, it was much less than I had known
from yourself, that you had been upon ill terms with the artists and virtuosi in Rome, without
much mention of cause or consequence. If you have improved these unfortunate quarrels to your
advancement in your art, you have turned a very disagreeable circumstance to a very capital
advantage. However you may have succeeded in this uncommon attempt, permit me to suggest to
you, with that friendly liberty which you have always had the goodness to bear from me, that
you cannot possibly have always the same success, either with regard to your fortune or your
reputation. Depend upon it, that you will find the same competitions, the same jealousies,
the same arts and cabals, the emulations of interest and of fame, and the same agitations and
passions here that you have experienced in Italy; and if they have the same effect on your
temper, they will have just the same effects upon your interest; and be your merit what it
will, you will never be employed to paint a picture. It will be the same at London as at Rome,
and the same in Paris as in London, for the world is pretty nearly alike in all its parts;
nay, though it would perhaps be a little inconvenient to me, I had a thousand times rather
you should fix your residence in Rome than here, as I should not then have the mortification
of seeing with my own eyes a genius of the first rank lost to the world, himself, and his friends;
as I certainly must, if you do not assume a manner of acting and thinking here, totally different
from what your letters from Rome have described to me.

That you have had just subjects of indignation always, and of anger often, I do no ways doubt;
who can live in the world without some trial of his patience? Think what my feelings must be,
from my unfeigned regard, and from my wishes that your talents might be of use, when I see
what the inevitable consequences must be, of your persevering in what has hitherto been your
course, ever since I knew you, and which you will permit me to trace out for you beforehand.

You will come here; you will observe what the artists are doing; and you will sometimes speak
a disapprobation in plain words, and sometimes by a no less expressive silence. By degrees
you will produce some of your own works. They will be variously criticized; you will defend
them; you will abuse those that have attacked you; expostulations, discussions, letters, possibly
challenges, will go forward; you will shun your brethren, they will shun you. In the meantime,
gentlemen will avoid your friendship, for fear of being engaged in your quarrels; you will
fall into distresses which will only aggravate your disposition for further quarrels; you will
be obliged for maintenance to do anything for anybody; your very talents will depart for want
of hope and encouragement; and you will go out of the world fretted, disappointed, and ruined.

Nothing but my real regard for you could induce me to set these considerations in this light
before you. Remember, we are born to serve and to adorn our country, and not to contend with
our fellow-citizens, and that in particular your business is to paint and not to dispute....

If you think this a proper time to leave Rome (a matter which I leave entirely to yourself),
I am quite of opinion you ought to go to Venice. Further, I think it right to see Florence
and Bologna; and that you cannot do better than to take that route to Venice. In short, do
everything that may contribute to your improvement, and I shall rejoice to see you what Providence
intended you, a very great man. This you were, in your ideas, before you quitted this; you
best know how far you have studied, that is, practised the mechanic; despised nothing till
you had tried it; practised dissections with your own hands, painted from nature as well as
from the statues, and portrait as well as history, and this frequently. If you have done all
this, as I trust you have, you want nothing but a little prudence, to fulfil all our wishes.
This, let me tell you, is no small matter; for it is impossible for you to find any persons
anywhere more truly interested for you; to these dispositions attribute everything which may
be a little harsh in this letter. We are, thank God, all well, and all most truly and sincerely
yours. I seldom write so long a letter. Take this as a sort of proof how much I am, dear Barry,
Your faithful friend.

To LORD AUCKLAND

An old stag at bay

Beaconsfield, 30 Oct. 1795.

To MARY LEADBEATER

His last letter[1]

Bath, 23 May, 1797.

My dear Mrs. Leadbeater,

I feel as I ought to do your constant hereditary kindness to me and mine. What you have heard
of my illness is far from exaggerated. I am, thank God, alive, and that is all. Hastening to
my dissolution, I have to bless Providence that I do not suffer a great deal of pain.... Mrs.
Burke has a tolerable share of health--in every respect except much use of her limbs. She remembers
your mother's most good-natured attentions, as I am sure I do with much gratitude. I have ever
been an admirer of your talents and virtues, and shall ever wish most cordially for everything
which can tend to your credit and satisfaction. I therefore congratulate you very heartily
on the birth of your son; and pray remember me to the representative of your family, who I
hope still keeps up the school of which I have so tender a remembrance; though after so long
an absence, and so many unpleasant events of every kind that have distracted my thoughts, I
hardly dare ask for any one, not knowing whether they are living or dead, lest I should be
the means of awakening unpleasant recollections. Believe me to be, with the most respectful
and affectionate regards, my dear Mrs. Leadbeater,

Your faithful friend, and very humble servant.

PS. Pray remember me to Mr. Leadbeater. I have been at Bath these four months to no purpose,
and am therefore to be removed to my own house at Beaconsfield to-morrow, to be nearer to a
habitation more permanent, humbly and fearfully hoping that my better part may find a better
mansion.

... In speaking of the happiness which I enjoy, you will agree with me in giving the preference
to a sincere and sensible friend; and though you cannot discern the full extent of his merit,
you will easily believe that Deyverdun is the man. Perhaps two persons so perfectly fitted
to live together were never formed by nature and education. We have both read and seen a great
variety of objects; the lights and shades of our different characters are happily blended,
and a friendship of thirty years has taught us to enjoy our mutual advantages, and to support
our unavoidable imperfections. In love and marriage, some harsh sounds will sometimes interrupt
the harmony, and in the course of time, like our neighbours, we must expect some disagreeable
moments; but confidence and freedom are the two pillars of our union, and I am much mistaken,
if the building be not solid and comfortable....

In this season I rise (not at four in the morning) but a little before eight; at nine I am
called from my study to breakfast, which I always perform alone, in the English style; and,
with the aid of Caplin, I perceive no difference between Lausanne and Bentinck Street. Our
mornings are usually passed in separate studies; we never approach each other's door without
a previous message, or thrice knocking; and my apartment is already sacred and formidable to
strangers. I dress at half-past one, and at two (an early hour, to which I am not perfectly
reconciled) we sit down to dinner.... After dinner, and the departure of our company, one,
two, or three friends, we read together some amusing book, or play at chess, or retire to our
rooms, or make visits, or go to the coffee-house. Between six and seven the assemblies begin,
and I am oppressed only with their number and variety. Whist, at shillings or half-crowns,
is the game I generally play, and I play three rubbers with pleasure. Between nine and ten
we withdraw to our bread and cheese, and friendly converse, which sends us to bed at eleven;
but these sober hours are too often interrupted by private or numerous suppers, which I have
not the courage to resist, though I practise a laudable abstinence at the best furnished tables.
Such is the skeleton of my life....

TO LORD SHEFFIELD

A great work

Lausanne, 20 Jan. 1787.

... As long as I do not inform you of my death, you have good grounds to believe me alive and
well. You have a general, and will soon have a more particular idea of my system and arrangement
here. One day glides away after another in tranquil uniformity. Every object must have sides
and moments less luminous than others; but, upon the whole, the life and the place which I
have chosen are most happily adapted to my character and circumstances: and I can now repeat,
at the end of three years, what I soon and sincerely affirmed, that never in a single instant
have I repented of my scheme of retirement to Lausanne.... And though I truly rejoice in my
approaching visit to England, Mr. Pitt, were he your friend and mine, would not find it an
easy task to prevent my return....

I am building a great book, which, besides the three stories already exposed to the public
eye, will have three stories more before we reach the roof and battlements. You too have built
or altered a great Gothic castle with baronial battlements. Did you finish it within the time
you intended? As that time drew near, did you not find a thousand nameless and unexpected works
that must be performed; each of them calling for a portion of time and labour? and had you
not despised, nobly despised, the minute diligence of finishing, fitting up, and furnishing
the apartments, you would have discovered a new train of indispensable business. Such, at least,
has been my case.

MY DEAREST SUSY,

Don't you think there must be some wager depending among the little curled imps who hover over
us mortals, of how much flummery goes to turn the head of an authoress? Your last communication
very near did my business; for, meeting Mr. Crisp ere I had composed myself, I 'tipt him such
a touch of the heroics' as he has not seen since the time when I was so much celebrated for
dancing Nancy Dawson. I absolutely longed to treat him with one of Captain Mirvan's frolics,
and to fling his wig out of the window. I restrained myself, however, from the apprehension
that they would imagine I had a universal spite to that harmless piece of goods, which I have
already been known to treat with no little indignity. He would fain have discovered the reason
of my skittishness; but as I could not tell it him, I was obliged to assure him it would be
lost time to inquire further into my flights, since 'true no meaning puzzles more than wit',
and therefore, begging the favour of him to 'set me down an ass', I suddenly retreated.

My dear, dear Dr. Johnson! what a charming man you are! Mrs. Cholmondeley, too, I am not merely
prepared but determined to admire; for really she has shown so much penetration and sound sense
of late, that I think she will bring about a union between Wit and Judgement, though their
separation has been so long, and though their meetings have been so few.

But, Mrs. Thrale! she--she is the goddess of my idolatry! What an éloge is hers!--an éloge
that not only delights at first, but proves more and more flattering every time it is considered!

I often think, when I am counting my laurels, what a pity it would have been had I popped off
in my last illness, without knowing what a person of consequence I was!--and I sometimes think
that, were I now to have a relapse, I could never go off with so much éclat! I am now at the
summit of a high hill; my prospects on one side are bright, glowing, and invitingly beautiful;
but when I turn round, I perceive, on the other side, sundry caverns, gulfs, pits, and precipices,
that, to look at, make my head giddy and my heart sick. I see about me, indeed, many hills
of far greater height and sublimity; but I have not the strength to attempt climbing them;
if I move, it must be downwards. I have already, I fear, reached the pinnacle of my abilities,
and therefore to stand still will be my best policy.

But there is nothing under heaven so difficult to do. Creatures who are formed for motion must
move, however great their inducements to forbear. The wisest course I could take, would be
to bid an eternal adieu to writing; then would the cry be, 'Tis pity she does not go on!--she
might do something better by and by', &c, &c. Evelina, as a first and a youthful publication,
has been received with the utmost favour and lenity; but would a future attempt be treated
with the same mercy?--no, my dear Susy, quite the contrary; there would not, indeed, be the
same plea to save it; it would no longer be a young lady's first appearance in public; those
who have met with less indulgence would all peck at any second work; and even those who most
encouraged the first offspring might prove enemies to the second, by receiving it with expectations
which it could not answer: and so, between either the friends or the foes of the eldest, the
second would stand an equally bad chance, and a million of flaws which were overlooked in the
former would be ridiculed as villainous and intolerable blunders in the latter.

But, though my eyes ache as I strain them to look forward, the temptations before me are almost
irresistible; and what you have transcribed from Mrs. Thrale may, perhaps, prove my destruction.

So you wish to have some of the sayings of the folks here about the book? I am sure I owe you
all the communications I can possibly give you; but I have nothing new to offer, for the same
strain prevails here as in town; and no one will be so obliging to me as to put in a little
abuse: so that I fear you will be satiated with the sameness of people's remarks. Yet, what
can I do? if they will be so disagreeable and tiresome as to be all of one mind, how is it
to be helped? I can only advise you to follow my example, which is, to accommodate my philosophy
to their insipidity; and in this I have so wonderfully succeeded, that I hear their commendations
not merely with patience but even with a degree of pleasure! Such, my dear Susy, is the effect
of true philosophy.

You desire Kitty Cooke's remarks in particular. I have none to give you, for none can I get.
To the serious part she indeed listens, and seems to think it may possibly be very fine; but
she is quite lost when the Branghtons and Madame Duval are mentioned;--she hears their speeches
very composedly, and as words of course; but when she hears them followed by loud bursts of
laughter from Hetty, Mr. Crisp, Mrs. Gast, and Mr. Burney, she stares with the gravest amazement,
and looks so aghast, and so distressed to know where the joke can be, that I never dare trust
myself to look at her for more than an instant. Were she to speak her thoughts, I am sure she
would ask why such common things, that pass every day, should be printed? And all the derision
with which the party in general treat the Branghtons, I can see she feels herself, with a plentiful
addition of astonishment, for the author!

By the way, not a human being here has the most remote suspicion of the fact; I could not be
more secure, were I literally unknown to them. And there is no end to the ridiculous speeches
perpetually made to me, by all of them in turn, though quite by accident.

'An't you sorry this sweet book is done?' said Mrs. Gast.

A silly little laugh was the answer.

'Ah,' said Patty, ''tis the sweetest book!--don't you think so, Miss Burney?'

N.B.--Answer as above.

'Pray, Miss Fan,' says Mrs. Hamilton, 'who wrote it?'

'Really I never heard.'

'Cute enough that, Miss Sukey!'

I desired Hetty to miss the verses; for I can't sit them: and I have been obliged to hide the
first volume ever since, for fear of a discovery. But I don't know how it will end; for Mrs.
Gast has declared she shall buy it, to take it to Burford with her.

TO SAMUEL CRISP

Mrs. Thrale and Dr. Johnson

Streatham, March 1779.

The kindness and honours I meet with from this charming family are greater than I can mention;
sweet Mrs. Thrale hardly suffers me to leave her a moment; and Dr. Johnson is another Daddy
Crisp to me, for he has a partial goodness to your Fannikin, that has made him sink the comparative
shortness of our acquaintance, and treat and think of me as one who had long laid claim to him.

If you knew these two you would love them, or I don't know you so well as I think I do. Dr.
Johnson has more fun, and comical humour, and love of nonsense about him, than almost anybody
I ever saw: I mean when with those he likes; for otherwise, he can be as severe and as bitter
as report relates him. Mrs. Thrale has all that gaiety of disposition and lightness of heart,
which commonly belong to fifteen. We are, therefore, merry enough, and I am frequently seized
with the same tittering and ridiculous fits as those with which I have so often amazed and
amused poor Kitty Cooke.

One thing let me not omit of this charming woman, which I believe will weigh with you in her
favour; her political doctrine is so exactly like yours, that it is never started but I exclaim,
'Dear ma'am, if my Daddy Crisp was here, I believe between you, you would croak me mad!' And
this sympathy of horrible foresight not a little contributes to incline her to believe the
other parts of speech with which I regale her concerning you. She wishes very much to know
you, and I am sure you would hit it off comfortably; but I told her what a vile taste you had
for shunning all new acquaintance, and shirking almost all your old ones.

My Susanna is just now come--so all is fair with my dearest Mr. and Mrs. Lock's F.B.

GEORGE CRABBE

1754-1832

TO MARY LEADBEATER[1]

The only survivors

Trowbridge, 1st of 12th month, 1816.

MARY LEADBEATER!

Yes, indeed, I do well remember you! Not Leadbeater then, but a pretty demure lass, standing
a timid auditor while her own verses were read by a kind friend, but a keen judge. And I have
in my memory your father's person and countenance, and you may be sure that my vanity retained
the compliment which he paid me in the moment when he permitted his judgement to slip behind
his good humour and desire of giving pleasure. Yes, I remember all who were present, and, of
all, are not you and I the only survivors? It was the day--was it not?--when I introduced my
wife to my friend. And now both are gone! and your father, and Richard Burke, who was present
(yet again I must ask,--was he not?)--and Mrs. Burke! All departed, and so, by and by, they
will speak of us. But, in the meantime, it was good of you to write, oh, very, very good!

But are you not your father's own daughter? Do you not flatter after his manner? How do you
know the mischief that you may do in the mind of a vain man, who is but too susceptible of
praise, even while he is conscious of so much to be placed against it? I am glad that you like
my verses: it would have mortified me much if you had not, for you can judge as well as write....
Yours are really very admirable things; and the morality is as pure as the literary merit is
conspicuous. I am not sure that I have read all that you have given us; but what I have read
has really that rare and almost undefinable quality, genius; that is to say, it seizes on the
mind and commands attention, and on the heart, and compels its feelings.

How could you imagine that I could be otherwise than pleased--delighted rather--with your letter?
And let me not omit the fact that I reply the instant I am at liberty, for I was enrobing myself
for church. You are a child of simplicity, I know, and do not love robing; but you are a pupil
of liberality, and look upon such things with a large mind, smiling in charity. Well! I was
putting on the great black gown when my servant--(you see I can be pompous, to write of gowns
and servants with such familiarity)--when he brought me a letter first directed, the words
yet legible, to 'George Crabbe, at Belvoir Castle', and then by Lord Mendip to the 'Reverend'
at Trowbridge; and at Trowbridge I hope again to receive these welcome evidences of your remembrance,
directed in all their simplicity, and written, I trust, in all sincerity....

There was a Suffolk family of Alexanders, one of whom you probably mean; and as he knew very
little of me, I see no reason why he should not give me a good character ... If it means, as
it generally does, that I paid my debts, and was guilty of no glaring world-defying immorality--why
yes!--I was so far a good character....

But your motive for writing to me was your desire of knowing whether my men and women were
really existing creatures, or beings of my own imagination? Nay, Mary Leadbeater, yours was
a better motive; you thought that you should give pleasure by writing, and--yet you will think
me very vain--you felt some pleasure yourself in renewing the acquaintance that commenced under
such auspices! Am I not right? My heart tells me that I am, and hopes that you will confirm
it. Be assured that I feel a very cordial esteem for the friend of my friend,--the virtuous,
the worthy character whom I am addressing.

Yes, I will tell you readily about my creatures, whom I endeavoured to paint as nearly as I
could, and dared; for in some cases I dared not. This you will readily admit; besides, charity
bade me be cautious. The nearest to real life was the proud ostentatious man in The Borough,
who disguises an ordinary mind by doing great things; but the others approach to reality at
greater or less distances. Indeed, I do not know that I could paint merely from my own fancy,
and there is no cause why we should. Is there not diversity sufficient in society? And who
can go, even but a little, into the assemblies of our fellow-wanderers from the way of perfect
rectitude, and not find characters so varied and so pointed that he need not call upon his
imagination?

Will you not write again? 'Write to thee, or for the public', wilt thou not ask? To me and
for as many as love and can discern the union of strength and simplicity, purity and good sense.
Our feeling and our hearts is the language you can adopt.

[Footnote 1: Cp. letter, p. 283.]

TO THE SAME

Comparisons

Trowbridge, 7 Sept. 1818.

A description of your village society would be very gratifying to me--how the manners differ
from those in larger societies, or in those under different circumstances. I have observed
an extraordinary difference in village manners in England, especially between those places
otherwise nearly alike, when there was and when there was not a leading man, or a squire's
family, or a manufactory near, or a populous, vitiated town, all these, and many other circumstances
have great influence. Your quiet village, with such influencing minds, I am disposed to think
highly of. No one, perhaps, very rich--none miserably poor. No girls, from six years to sixteen,
sent to a factory, where men, women, and children of all ages are continually with them breathing
contagion. Not all, however: we are not so evil--there is a resisting power, and it is strong;
but the thing itself, the congregation of so many minds, and the intercourse it occasions,
will have its powerful and visible effect. But these you have not; yet, as you mention your
schools of both kinds, you must be more populous and perhaps not so happy as I was giving myself
to believe....

The world has not spoiled you, Mary, I do believe: now it has me. I have been absorbed in its
mighty vortex, and gone into the midst of its greatness, and joined in its festivities and
frivolities, and been intimate with its children. You may like me very well, my kind friend,
while the purifying water, and your more effectual imagination, is between us; but come you
to England, or let me be in Ireland, and place us where mind becomes acquainted with mind--and
then! Ah, Mary Leadbeater! you would have done with your friendship with me! Child of simplicity
and virtue, how can you let yourself be so deceived? Am I not a great fat rector, living upon
a mighty income, while my poor curate starves with six hungry children upon the scraps that
fall from the luxurious table? Do I not visit that horrible London, and enter into its abominable
dissipations? Am not I this day going to dine on venison and drink claret? Have I not been
at election dinners, and joined the Babel-confusion of a town hall? Child of simplicity! am
I fit to be a friend to you, and to the peaceful, mild, pure, and gentle people about you?
One thing is true--I wish I had the qualification. But I am of the world, Mary....

I return all your good wishes, think of you, and with much regard, more than, indeed, belongs
to a man of the world! Still, let me be permitted to address thee.--O my dear Mrs. Leadbeater,
this is so humble that I am afraid it is vain. Well! write soon, then, and believe me to be

Most sincerely and affectionately yours.

Sunday morning.

DEAR SCULPTOR OF ETERNITY,

We are safe arrived at our cottage, which is more beautiful than I thought it, and more convenient.
It is a perfect model for cottages, and I think for palaces of magnificence, only enlarging
not altering its proportions, and adding ornaments and not principles. Nothing can be more
grand than its simplicity and usefulness. Simple without intricacy, it seems to be the spontaneous
expression of humanity, congenial to the wants of man. No other formed house can ever please
me so well, nor shall I ever be persuaded, I believe, that it can be improved either in beauty
or use.

Mr. Hayley received us with his usual brotherly affection. I have begun to work. Felpham is
a sweet place for study, because it is more spiritual than London. Heaven opens here on all
sides her golden gates: her windows are not obstructed by vapours; voices of celestial inhabitants
are more distinctly heard, and their forms more distinctly seen; and my cottage is also a shadow
of their houses. My wife and sister are both well, courting Neptune for an embrace.

Our journey was very pleasant; and though we had a great deal of luggage, no grumbling. All
was cheerfulness and good humour on the road, and yet we could not arrive at our cottage before
half-past eleven at night, owing to the necessary shifting of our luggage from one chaise to
another; for we had seven different chaises and as many different drivers. We set out between
six and seven in the morning of Thursday, with sixteen heavy boxes and portfolios full of prints.

And now begins a new life, because another covering of earth is shaken off. I am more famed
in heaven for my works than I could well conceive. In my brain are studies and chambers filled
with books and pictures of old, which I wrote and painted in ages of eternity before my mortal
life; and those works are the delight and study of archangels. Why then should I be anxious
about the riches or fame of mortality? The Lord our Father will do for us and with us according
to His divine will, for our good.

You, O dear Flaxman! are a sublime archangel,--my friend and companion from eternity. In the
divine bosom is our dwelling-place. I look back into the regions of reminiscence, and behold
our ancient days before this earth appeared in its vegetated mortality to my mortal vegetated
eyes. I see our houses of eternity which can never be separated, though our mortal vehicles
should stand at the remotest corners of heaven from each other.

Farewell, my best friend! Remember me and my wife in love and friendship to our dear Mrs. Flaxman,
whom we ardently desire to entertain beneath our thatched roof of rusted gold.

TO THOMAS BUTTS

Trouble in the path

Felpham, 10 Jan. 1802.

Dear Sir,

Your very kind and affectionate letter, and the many kind things you have said in it, called
upon me for an immediate answer. But it found my wife and myself so ill, and my wife so very
ill, that till now I have not been able to do this duty. The ague and rheumatism have been
almost her constant enemies, which she has combated in vain almost ever since we have been
here, and her sickness is always my sorrow, of course. But what you tell me about your sight
afflicted me not a little, and that about your health, in another part of your letter, makes
me entreat you to take due care of both. It is a part of our duty to God and man to take due
care of His gifts; and though we ought not to think more highly of ourselves, yet we ought
to think as highly of ourselves as immortals ought to think.

When I came down here, I was more sanguine than I am at present; but it was because I was ignorant
of many things which have since occurred, and chiefly the unhealthiness of the place. Yet I
do not repent of coming on a thousand accounts; and Mr. Hayley, I doubt not, will do ultimately
all that both he and I wish--that is, to lift me out of difficulty. But this is no easy matter
to a man who, having spiritual enemies of such formidable magnitude, cannot expect to want
natural hidden ones.

Your approbation of my pictures is a multitude to me, and I doubt not that all your kind wishes
in my behalf shall in due time be fulfilled. Your kind offer of pecuniary assistance I can
only thank you for at present, because I have enough to serve my present purpose here. Our
expenses are small, and our income, from our incessant labour, fully adequate to these at present.
I am now engaged in engraving six small plates for a new edition of Mr. Hayley's Triumphs of
Temper, from drawings by Maria Flaxman, sister to my friend the sculptor. And it seems that
other things will follow in course, if I do but copy these well. But patience! If great things
do not turn out, it is because such things depend on the spiritual and not on the natural world;
and if it was fit for me, I doubt not that I should be employed in greater things; and when
it is proper, my talents shall be properly exercised in public, as I hope they are now in private.
For till then I leave no stone unturned, and no path unexplored that leads to improvement in
my beloved arts. One thing of real consequence I have accomplished by coming into the country,
which is to me consolation enough: namely, I have re-collected all my scattered thoughts on
art, and resumed my primitive and original ways of execution in both painting and engraving,
which in the confusion of London I had very much lost and obliterated from my mind. But whatever
becomes of my labours, I would rather that they should be preserved in your greenhouse (not,
as you mistakenly call it, dunghill) than in the cold gallery of fashion. The sun may yet shine,
and then they will be brought into open air.

But you have so generously and openly desired that I will divide my griefs with you that I
cannot hide what it has now become my duty to explain. My unhappiness has arisen from a source
which, if explored too narrowly, might hurt my pecuniary circumstances; as my dependence is
on engraving at present, and particularly on the engravings I have in hand for Mr. Hayley,
and I find on all hands great objections to my doing anything but the mere drudgery of business,
and intimations that, if I do not confine myself to this, I shall not live. This has always
pursued me. You will understand by this the source of all my uneasiness. This from Johnson
and Fuseli brought me down here, and this from Mr. Hayley will bring me back again. For that
I cannot live without doing my duty to lay up treasures in heaven is certain and determined,
and to this I have long made up my mind. And why this should be made an objection to me, while
drunkenness, lewdness, gluttony, and even idleness itself, does not hurt other men, let Satan
himself explain. The thing I have most at heart--more than life, or all that seems to make
life comfortable without--is the interest of true religion and science. And whenever anything
appears to affect that interest (especially if I myself omit any duty to my station as a soldier
of Christ), it gives me the greatest of torments. I am not ashamed, afraid, or averse to tell
you what ought to be told--that I am under the direction of messengers from heaven, daily and
nightly. But the nature of such things is not, as some suppose, without trouble or care. Temptations
are on the right hand and on the left. Behind, the sea of time and space roars and follows
swiftly. He who keeps not right onwards is lost; and if our footsteps slide in clay, how can
we do otherwise than fear and tremble? But I should not have troubled you with this account
of my spiritual state, unless it had been necessary in explaining the actual cause of my uneasiness,
into which you are so kind as to inquire: for I never obtrude such things on others unless
questioned, and then I never disguise the truth. But if we fear to do the dictates of our angels,
and tremble at the tasks set before us; if we refuse to do spiritual acts because of natural
fears or natural desires; who can describe the dismal torments of such a state!--I too well
remember the threats I heard!--'If you, who are organized by Divine Providence for spiritual
communion, refuse, and bury your talent in the earth, even though you should want natural bread,--sorrow
and desperation pursue you through life, and after death shame and confusion of face to eternity.
Every one in eternity will leave you, aghast at the man who was crowned with glory and honour
by his brethren, and betrayed their cause to their enemies. You will be called the base Judas
who betrayed his friend!'--Such words would make any stout man tremble, and how then could
I be at ease? But I am now no longer in that state, and now go on again with my task, fearless
though my path is difficult. I have no fear of stumbling while I keep it.

My wife desires her kindest love to Mrs. Butts, and I have permitted her to send it to you
also. We often wish that we could unite again in society, and hope that the time is not distant
when we shall do so, being determined not to remain another winter here, but to return to London.

  I hear a Voice you cannot hear, that says
  I must not stay,
  I see a Hand you cannot see, that beckons
  me away.

Naked we came here--naked of natural things--and naked we shall return: but while clothed with
the Divine mercy, we are richly clothed in spiritual, and suffer all the rest gladly. Pray,
give my love to Mrs. Butts and your family.

PS. Your obliging proposal of exhibiting my two pictures likewise calls for my thanks; I will
finish the others, and then we shall judge of the matter with certainty.

To THE SAME

The wonderful poem

(Felpham), 25 April, 1803.

MY DEAR SIR,

I write in haste, having received a pressing letter from my Brother. I intended to have sent
the Picture of the Riposo, which is nearly finished much to my satisfaction, but not quite.
You shall have it soon. I now send the four numbers for Mr. Birch with best respects to him.
The reason the Ballads have been suspended is the pressure of other business, but they will
go on again soon.

Accept of my thanks for your kind and heartening letter. You have faith in the endeavours of
me, your weak brother and fellow-disciple; how great must be your faith in our Divine Master!
You are to me a lesson of humility, while you exalt me by such distinguishing commendations.
I know that you see certain merits in me, which, by God's grace, shall be made fully apparent
and perfect in Eternity. In the meantime I must not bury the talents in the earth, but do my
endeavour to live to the glory of our Lord and Saviour; and I am also grateful to the kind
hand that endeavours to lift me out of despondency, even if it lifts me too high.

And now, my dear Sir, congratulate me on my return to London with the full approbation of Mr.
Hayley and with promise. But alas! now I may say to you--what perhaps I should not dare to
say to anyone else--that I can alone carry on my visionary studies in London unannoyed, and
that I may converse with my friends in Eternity, see visions, dream dreams, and prophesy and
speak parables, unobserved, and at liberty from the doubts of other mortals: perhaps doubts
proceeding from kindness; but doubts are always pernicious, especially when we doubt our friends.
Christ is very decided on this point: 'He who is not with me is against me.' There is no medium
or middle state; and if a man is the enemy of my spiritual life while he pretends to be the
friend of my corporeal, he is a real enemy; but the man may be the friend of my spiritual life
while he seems the enemy of my corporeal, though not vice versa.

What is very pleasant, every one who hears of my going to London again applauds it as the only
course for the interest of all concerned in my works; observing that I ought not to be away
from the opportunities London affords of seeing fine pictures, and the various improvements
in works of art going on in London.

But none can know the spiritual acts of my three years' slumber on the banks of Ocean, unless
he has seen them in the spirit, or unless he should read my long Poem descriptive of those
acts; for I have in these years composed an immense number of verses on one grand theme, similar
to Homer's Iliad or Milton's Paradise Lost; the persons and machinery entirely new to the inhabitants
of earth (some of the persons excepted). I mention this to show you what I think the grand
reason of my being brought down here.

I have a thousand and ten thousand things to say to you. My heart is full of futurity. I perceive
that the sore travail which has been given me these three years leads to glory and honour.
I rejoice and tremble: 'I am fearfully and wonderfully made.' I had been reading the CXXXIX
Psalm a little before your letter arrived. I take your advice. I see the face of my Heavenly
Father; He lays His hand upon my head, and gives a blessing to all my work. Why should I be
troubled? Why should my heart and flesh cry out? I will go on in the strength of the Lord;
through Hell will I sing forth His praises: that the dragons of the deep may praise Him, and
that those who dwell in darkness, and in the sea coasts may be gathered into His Kingdom. Excuse
my perhaps too great enthusiasm. Please to accept of and give our loves to Mrs. Butts and your
amiable family, and believe me ever yours affectionately.

TO THE SAME

The poet and William Hayley

Felpham, 6 July, 1803.

... We look forward every day with pleasure toward our meeting again in London with those whom
we have learned to value by absence no less perhaps than we did by presence; for recollection
often surpasses everything. Indeed, the prospect of returning to our friends is supremely delightful.
Then, I am determined that Mrs. Butts shall have a good likeness of you, if I have hands and
eyes left; for I am become a likeness-taker, and succeed admirably well. But this is not to
be achieved without the original sitting before you for every touch, all likenesses from memory
being necessarily very, very defective; but Nature and Fancy are two things, and can never
be joined, neither ought any one to attempt it, for it is idolatry, and destroys the Soul.

I ought to tell you that Mr. H. is quite agreeable to our return, and that there is all the
appearance in the world of our being fully employed in engraving for his projected works, particularly
Cowper's Milton--a work now on foot by subscription, and I understand that the subscription
goes on briskly. This work is to be a very elegant one, and to consist of all Milton's Poems
with Cowper's Notes, and translations by Cowper from Milton's Latin and Italian poems. These
works will be ornamented with engravings from designs by Romney, Flaxman, and your humble servant,
and to be engraved also by the last-mentioned. The profits of the work are intended to be appropriated
to erect a monument to the memory of Cowper in St. Paul's or Westminster Abbey. Such is the
project; and Mr. Addington and Mr. Pitt are both among the subscribers, which are already numerous
and of the first rank. The price of the work is six guineas. Thus I hope that all our three
years' trouble ends in good-luck at last, and shall be forgot by my affections, and only remembered
by my understanding, to be a memento in time to come, and to speak to future generations by
a sublime allegory, which is now perfectly completed into a grand Poem. I may praise it, since
I dare not pretend to be any other than the secretary; the authors are in Eternity. I consider
it as the grandest Poem that this world contains. Allegory addressed to the intellectual powers,
while it is altogether hidden from the corporeal understanding, is my definition of the most
sublime Poetry. It is also somewhat in the same manner defined by Plato. This Poem shall, by
Divine assistance, be progressively printed and ornamented with prints, and given to the public.
But of this work I take care to say little to Mr. H., since he is as much averse to my Poetry
as he is to a chapter in the Bible. He knows that I have writ it, for I have shown it to him,
and he has read part by his own desire, and has looked with sufficient contempt to enhance
my opinion of it. But I do not wish to imitate by seeming too obstinate in poetic pursuits.
But if all the world should set their faces against this, I have orders to set my face like
a flint (Ezek. iii. 8) against their faces, and my forehead against their foreheads.

As to Mr. H., I feel myself at liberty to say as follows upon this ticklish subject. I regard
fashion in Poetry as little as I do in Painting: so, if both Poets and Painters should alternately
dislike (but I know the majority of them will not), I am not to regard it at all. But Mr. H.
approves of my Designs as little as he does of my Poems, and I have been forced to insist on
his leaving me, in both, to my own self-will; for I am determined to be no longer pestered
with his genteel ignorance and polite disapprobation. I know myself both Poet and Painter,
and it is not his affected contempt that can move to anything but a more assiduous pursuit
of both arts. Indeed, by my late firmness, I have brought down his affected loftiness, and
he begins to think I have some genius: as if genius and assurance were the same thing! But
his imbecile attempts to depress me only deserve laughter. I say thus much to you, knowing
that you will not make a bad use of it. But it is a fact too true that, if I had only depended
on mortal things, both myself and my wife must have been lost. I shall leave every one in this
country astonished at my patience and forbearance of injuries upon injuries; and I do assure
you that, if I could have returned to London a month after my arrival here, I should have done
so. But I was commanded by my spiritual friends to bear all and be silent, and to go through
all without murmuring, and, in fine, to hope till my three years should be almost accomplished;
at which time I was set at liberty to remonstrate against former conduct, and to demand justice
and truth; which I have done in so effectual a manner that my antagonist is silenced completely,
and I have compelled what should have been of freedom--my just right as an artist and as a
man. And if any attempt should be made to refuse me this, I am inflexible, and will relinquish
any engagement of designing at all, unless altogether left to my own judgement, as you, my
dear friend, have always left me; for which I shall never cease to honour and respect you.

When we meet, I will perfectly describe to you my conduct and the conduct of others towards
me, and you will see that I have laboured hard indeed, and have been borne on angels' wings.
Till we meet I beg of God our Saviour to be with you and me, and yours and mine. Pray give
my and my wife's love to Mrs. Butts and family, and believe me to remain

Yours in truth and sincerity.

With a heart melted to overflowing, I cannot restrain the attempt to express my grateful sensations
on receiving the greatest, and, alas! I fear, the last proof of that unvarying friendship with
which our ever-loved, our ever-honoured friend has favoured us! I may transgress the bounds
by intruding at this awful period; but I cannot help it. My affection and my sorrow will be
excused, I believe, for thou hast ever looked kindly and partially upon me, and so has thy
beloved wife, with whose feelings I sympathize, could that avail. This day's post brought me
thy letter of the 23rd instant, dictated and signed by thee. Such attention, at such a time,
and in such a situation! It was like Edmund Burke! It was like few others, but it is not bestowed
upon hearts who do not feel it.--I look back on that friendship formed in the precious days
of innocent childhood, between thee and my lamented parent.--I trace its progress, which is
so imprinted on my mind, that I almost seem to myself to have been a witness to it.--I see
it continue unabated, notwithstanding the different sphere of life in which you moved, to the
period of it;--and may we not hope that there is an union of souls beyond the grave? The composure
and fortitude displayed in thy letter, is the greatest consolation we could receive with the
tidings it conveyed of thy health. Since thou dost not allow us to hope for its restoration,
we will hope better things than is in the power of this world to bestow.--My mother appears
to decline, and looks to the end of her race as near. All the other branches of this family,
I believe, are well in health. My brother continues the school, which, I believe, was never
in higher estimation than at present. My husband regrets very much that he never shared with
us the pleasure of a personal acquaintance with thee. We all unite in cordial, unaffected love
to thee. I thought I would say how we were, believing thou would be pleased to hear of our
welfare, though how long that may be continued, seems doubtful.--The general fermentation throughout
this nation, forebodes some sudden and dreadful eruption, and, however obscure or retired our
situations may be, there is little prospect of escaping the calamity. This may cause us to
admire, nay, adore the mercy, as well as wisdom of Him, who gives and takes life, in removing
those so dear to us from the evil to come. My mother desires thou may accept as much love as
she is capable of sending thee; her heart is full of it towards thee; and she bids me say,
she hopes thou hast lived such a life, that thy end will be crowned with peace! So be it, with
my whole heart! Thy affectionate and obliged friend.

Our best wishes, and dear love to thy wife.

Abraham Shackleton has the melancholy satisfaction of perusing dear Edmund Burke's account
of his poor state of health. He hopes (trusts) that a quiet resting place is prepared for him.
The memory of E. Burke's philanthropic virtues will out-live the period when his shining political
talents will cease to act. New fashions of political sentiment will exist; but philanthropy,--immortale
manet!

TO GEORGE CRABBE

She writes to remind him

Ballitore, 7th of Eleventh-month, 1816.

I believe it will surprise George Crabbe to receive a letter from an entire stranger, whom
most probably he does not remember to have ever seen or heard of, but who cannot forget having
met him at the house of Edmund Burke, Charles Street, James's Square, in the year 1784. I was
brought thither by my father, Richard Shackleton, the friend from their childhood of Edmund
Burke. My dear father told thee that Goldsmith's would now be the deserted village; perhaps
thou dost not remember this compliment, but I remember the ingenuous modesty which disclaimed
it. He admired 'The Village', 'The Library,' and 'The Newspaper' exceedingly, and the delight
with which he read them to his family could not but be acceptable to the author, had he known
the sound judgement and the exquisite taste which that excellent man possessed. But he saw
no more of the productions of the Muse he admired; whose originality was not the least charm.
He is dead--the friend whom he loved and honoured, and to whose character thou dost so much
justice in the preface to 'The Parish Register', is also gone to the house appointed for all
living. A splendid constellation of poets arose in the literary horizon; I looked around for
Crabbe. Why does not he, who shines as brightly as any of these, add his lustre? I had not
long thought thus when, in an Edinburgh Review, I met with reflections similar to my own, which
introduced 'The Parish Register'. Oh, it was like the voice of a long-lost friend, and glad
was I to hear that voice again in 'The Borough'!--still more in 'The Tales,' which appear to
me excelling all that preceded them! Every work is so much in unison with our own feelings,
that a wish for information concerning them and their author is strongly excited.

One of our friends, Dykes Alexander, who was in Ballitore in 1810, I think, said he was personally
acquainted with thee, and spoke highly of thy character. I regretted I had not an opportunity
of conversing with him on this subject, as perhaps he would have been able to decide arguments
which have arisen; namely, whether we owe to truth or to fiction that 'ever new delight' which
thy poetry affords us. The characters, however singular some of them may be, are never unnatural,
and thy sentiments so true to domestic and social feelings, as well as to those of a higher
nature, have the convincing power of reality over the mind, and I maintain that all thy pictures
are drawn from life. To inquire whether this be the case is the excuse which I make to myself
for writing this letter. I wish the excuse may be accepted by thee, for I greatly fear I have
taken an unwarrantable liberty in making the inquiry. Though advanced in life, yet from an
education of peculiar simplicity, and from never having been long absent from my retired native
village, I am too little acquainted with decorum. If I have now transgressed the rules it prescribes,
I appeal to the candour and liberality of thy mind to forgive a fault caused by a strong enthusiasm.

PS. Ballitore is the village in which Edmund Burke was educated by Abraham Shackleton, whose
pupil he became in 1741, and from whose school he entered the college of Dublin in 1744. The
school is still flourishing.

TO MISS SEWARD

The Lay of the Last Minstrel

Edinburgh, 21 March, 1805.

MY DEAR MISS SEWARD,

I am truly happy that you found any amusement in the Lay of the Last Minstrel. It has great
faults, of which no one can be more sensible than I am myself. Above all, it is deficient in
that sort of continuity which a story ought to have, and which, were it to write again, I would
endeavour to give it. But I began and wandered forward, like one in a pleasant country, getting
to the top of one hill to see a prospect, and to the bottom of another to enjoy a shade, and
what wonder if my course has been devious and desultory, and many of my excursions altogether
unprofitable to the advance of my journey. The Dwarf Page is also an excrescence, and I plead
guilty to all the censures concerning him. The truth is, he has a history, and it is this:
The story of Gilpin Horner was told by an old gentleman to Lady Dalkeith, and she, much diverted
with his actually believing so grotesque a tale, insisted that I should make it into a Border
ballad. I don't know if you ever saw my lovely chieftainess--if you have, you must be aware
that it is impossible for any one to refuse her request, as she has more of the angel in face
and temper than any one alive; so that if she had asked me to write a ballad on a broomstick
I must have attempted it. I began a few verses, to be called the Goblin Page; and they lay
long by me, till the applause of some friends whose judgement I valued induced me to resume
the poem; so on I wrote, knowing no more than the man in the moon how I was to end.

I mention these circumstances to you, and to any one whose applause I value, because I am unwilling
you should suspect me of trifling with the public in malice prepense. As to the herd of critics,
it is impossible for me to pay much attention to them; for, as they do not understand what
I call poetry, we talk in a foreign language to each other. The sixth canto is altogether redundant;
for the poem should certainly have closed with the union of the lovers, when the interest,
if any, was at an end. But what could I do? I had my book and my page still on my hands, and
must get rid of them at all events. Manage them as I would, their catastrophe must have been
insufficient to occupy an entire canto; so I was fain to eke it out with the songs of the minstrels.
I will now descend from the confessional, which I think I have occupied long enough for the
patience of my fair confessor. I am happy you are disposed to give me absolution, notwithstanding
all my sins. We have a new poet come forth amongst us--James Graham, author of a poem called
The Sabbath, which I admire very much. If I can find an opportunity I will send you a copy.

TO LADY LOUISA STUART

An amiable blue-stocking

Edinburgh, 16 June, 1808.

MY DEAR LADY LOUISA,

Nothing will give us more pleasure than to have the honour of showing every attention in our
power to Mr. and Mrs. Morritt, and I am particularly happy in a circumstance that at once promises
me a great deal of pleasure in the acquaintance of your Ladyship's friends, and affords me
the satisfaction of hearing from you again. Pray don't triumph over me too much in the case
of Lydia. I stood a very respectable siege; but she caressed my wife, coaxed my children, and
made, by dint of cake and pudding, some impression even upon the affections of my favourite
dog: so, when all the outworks were carried, the mere fortress had no choice but to surrender
on honourable terms. To the best of my thinking, notwithstanding the cerulean hue of her stockings,
and a most plentiful stock of eccentric affectation, she is really at bottom a good-natured
woman, with much liveliness and some talent. She is now set out to the Highlands, where she
is likely to encounter many adventures. Mrs. Scott and I went as far as Loch Catrine with her,
from which jaunt I have just returned. We had most heavenly weather, which was peculiarly favourable
to my fair companions' zeal for sketching every object that fell in their way, from a castle
to a pigeon-house. Did your Ladyship ever travel with a drawing companion? Mine drew like cart-horses,
as well in laborious zeal as in effect; for, after all, I could not help hinting that the cataracts
delineated bore a singular resemblance to haycocks, and the rocks much correspondence to large
old-fashioned cabinets with their folding-doors open. So much for Lydia, whom I left on her
journey through the Highlands, but by what route she had not resolved. I gave her three plans,
and think it likely she will adopt none of them: moreover, when the executive government of
postilions, landlords, and Highland boatmen devolves upon her English servant instead of me,
I am afraid the distresses of the errant damsels will fall a little beneath the dignity of
romances. All this nonsense is entre nous, for Miss White has been actively zealous in getting
me some Irish correspondence about Swift, and otherwise very obliging.

It is not with my inclination that I fag for the booksellers; but what can I do? My poverty
and not my will consents. The income of my office is only reversionary, and my private fortune
much limited. My poetical success fairly destroyed my prospects of professional success, and
obliged me to retire from the bar; for though I had a competent share of information and industry,
who would trust their cause to the author of the Lay of the Last Minstrel? Now, although I
do allow that an author should take care of his literary character, yet I think the least thing
that his literary character can do in return is to take some care of the author, who is unfortunately,
like Jeremy in Love for Love, furnished with a set of tastes and appetites which would do honour
to the income of a Duke if he had it. Besides, I go to work with Swift con amore; for, like
Dryden, he is an early favourite of mine. The Marmion is nearly out, and I have made one or
two alterations on the third edition, with which the press is now groaning. So soon as it is,
it will make the number of copies published within the space of six months amount to eight
thousand,--an immense number, surely, and enough to comfort the author's wounded feelings,
had the claws of the reviewers been able to reach him through the steel jack of true Border
indifference.

TO ROBERT SOUTHEY

Congratulations

Edinburgh, 13 Nov. 1813.

I do not delay, my dear Southey, to say my gratulor. Long may you live, as Paddy says, to rule
over us, and to redeem the crown of Spenser and of Dryden to its pristine dignity. I am only
discontented with the extent of your royal revenue, which I thought had been £400, or £300
at the very least. Is there no getting rid of that iniquitous modus, and requiring the butt
in kind? I would have you think of it: I know no man so well entitled to Xeres sack as yourself,
though many bards would make a better figure at drinking it. I should think that in due time
a memorial might get some relief in this part of the appointment--it should be at least £100
wet and £100 dry. When you have carried your point of discarding the ode, and my point of getting
the sack, you will be exactly in the situation of Davy in the farce, who stipulates for more
wages, less work, and the key of the ale-cellar. I was greatly delighted with the circumstances
of your investiture. It reminded me of the porters at Calais with Dr. Smollett's baggage, six
of them seizing upon one small portmanteau, and bearing it in triumph to his lodgings. You
see what it is to laugh at the superstitions of a gentleman-usher, as I think you do somewhere.
'The whirligig of Time brings about his revenges.'

Adieu, my dear Southey; my best wishes attend all that you do, and my best congratulations
every good that attends you--yea even this, the very least of Providence's mercies, as a poor
clergyman said when pronouncing grace over a herring. I should like to know how the prince
received you; his address is said to be excellent, and his knowledge of literature far from
despicable. What a change of fortune even since the short time when we met! The great work
of retribution is now rolling onward to consummation, yet am I not fully satisfied--pereat
iste--there will be no permanent peace in Europe till Buonaparte sleeps with the tyrants of old.

TO J.B.S. MORRITT

A small anonymous sort of a novel

Edinburgh, 9 July, 1814.

MY DEAR MORRITT,

I owe you many apologies for not sooner answering your very entertaining letter upon your Parisian
journey. I heartily wish I had been of your party, for you have seen what I trust will not
be seen again in a hurry; since, to enjoy the delight of a restoration, there is a necessity
for a previous bouleversement of everything that is valuable in morals and policy which seems
to have been the case in France since 1790. The Duke of Buccleugh told me yesterday of a very
good reply of Louis to some of his attendants, who proposed shutting the doors of his apartments
to keep out the throng of people. 'Open the door,' he said, 'to John Bull; he has suffered
a great deal in keeping the door open for me.'

Now, to go from one important subject to another, I must account for my own laziness, which
I do by referring you to a small anonymous sort of a novel, in three volumes, Waverley, which
you will receive by the mail of this day. It was a very old attempt of mine to embody some
traits of those characters and manners peculiar to Scotland, the last remnants of which vanished
during my own youth, so that few or no traces now remain. I had written great part of the first
volume, and sketched other passages, when I mislaid the MS., and only found it by the merest
accident as I was rummaging the drawers of an old cabinet; and I took the fancy of finishing
it, which I did so fast, that the last two volumes were written in three weeks. I had a great
deal of fun in the accomplishment of this task, though I do not expect that it will be popular
in the south, as much of the humour, if there be any, is local, and some of it even professional.
You, however, who are an adopted Scotchman, will find some amusement in it. It has made a very
strong impression here, and the good people of Edinburgh are busied in tracing the author,
and in finding out originals for the portraits it contains. In the first case, they will probably
find it difficult to convict the guilty author, although he is far from escaping suspicion.
Jeffrey has offered to make oath that it is mine, and another great critic has tendered his
affidavit ex contrario; so that these authorities have divided the Gude Town. However, the
thing has succeeded very well, and is thought highly of. I don't know if it has got to London
yet. I intend to maintain my incognito. Let me know your opinion about it....

24 July.

... I had just proceeded thus far when your kind favour of the 21st reached Abbotsford. I am
heartily glad you continued to like Waverley to the end. I do not know why it should be, as
I am myself, like Hamlet, indifferent honest; but I suppose the blood of the old cattle-drivers
of Teviotdale continues to stir in my veins.

TO THE SAME

Acceptance of a baronetcy

Edinburgh, 7 Dec., 1818.

MY DEAR MORRITT,

... There is another thing I have to whisper in your faithful ear. Our fat friend being desirous
to honour Literature in my unworthy person, has intimated to me, by his organ the Doctor, that,
with consent ample and unanimous of all the potential voices of all his ministers, each more
happy than another of course on so joyful an occasion, he proposes to dub me Baronet. It would
be easy saying a parcel of fine things about my contempt of rank, and so forth; but although
I would not have gone a step out of my way to have asked, or bought, or begged, or borrowed
a distinction, which to me personally will rather be inconvenient than otherwise, yet, coming
as it does directly from the source of feudal honours, and as an honour, I am really gratified
with it;--especially as it is intimated, that it is his Royal Highness's pleasure to heat the
oven for me expressly, without waiting till he has some new batch of Baronets ready in dough.
In plain English, I am to be gazetted per se. My poor friend Carpenter's bequest to my family
has taken away a certain degree of impecuniosity, a necessity of saving cheese-parings and
candle-ends, which always looks inconsistent with any little pretension to rank. But as things
now stand, Advance banners in the name of God and St. Andrew. But a name is something, and
mine is the better of the two. Set down this flourish to the account of national and provincial
pride, for you must know we have more Messieurs de Sotenville in our Border counties than anywhere
else in the Lowlands--I cannot say for the Highlands.

TO LORD MONTAGU

Prince Leopold's visit

Abbotsford, 3 Oct. 1819.

MY DEAR LORD,

I am honoured with your Buxton letter.... Anent Prince Leopold, I only heard of his approach
at eight o'clock in the morning, and he was to be at Selkirk by eleven. The magistrates sent
to ask me to help them to receive him. It occurred to me he might be coming to Melrose to see
the Abbey, in which case I could not avoid asking him to Abbotsford, as he must pass my very
door. I mentioned this to Mrs. Scott, who was lying quietly in bed, and I wish you had heard
the scream she gave on the occasion. 'What have we to offer him?'--'Wine and cake,' said I,
thinking to make all things easy; but she ejaculated, in a tone of utter despair, 'Cake!! where
am I to get cake?' However, being partly consoled with the recollection that his visit was
a very improbable incident, and curiosity, as usual, proving too strong for alarm, she set
out with me in order not to miss a peep of the great man. James Skene and his lady were with
us, and we gave our carriages such additional dignity as a pair of leaders could add, and went
to meet him in full puff. The Prince very civilly told me, that, though he could not see Melrose
on this occasion, he wished to come to Abbotsford for an hour. New despair on the part of Mrs.
Scott, who began to institute a domiciliary search for cold meat through the whole city of
Selkirk, which produced one shoulder of cold lamb. In the meanwhile, his Royal Highness received
the civic honours of the BIRSE[1] very graciously. I had hinted to Bailie Lang, that it ought
only to be licked symbolically on the present occasion; so he flourished it three times before
his mouth, but without touching it with his lips, and the Prince followed his example as directed.
Lang made an excellent speech, sensible, and feeling, and well delivered. The Prince seemed
much surprised at this great propriety of expression and behaviour in a magistrate, whose people
seemed such a rabble, and whose whole band of music consisted in a drum and fife. He noticed
to Bailie Anderson, that Selkirk seemed very populous in proportion to its extent. 'On an occasion
like this it seems so,' answered the Bailie, neatly enough I thought. I question if any magistrates
in the kingdom, lord mayors and aldermen not excepted, could have behaved with more decent
and quiet good-breeding. Prince Leopold repeatedly alluded to this during the time he was at
Abbotsford. I do not know how Mrs. Scott ultimately managed; but with broiled salmon, and black-cock,
and partridges, she gave him a very decent lunch; and I chanced to have some very fine old
hock, which was mighty germain to the matter.

The Prince seems melancholy, whether naturally or from habit, I do not pretend to say; but
I do not remember thinking him so at Paris, where I saw him frequently, then a much poorer
man than myself; yet he showed some humour, for alluding to the crowds that followed him everywhere,
he mentioned some place where he had gone out to shoot, but was afraid to proceed for fear
of 'bagging a boy'. He said he really thought of getting some shooting-place in Scotland, and
promised me a longer visit on his return. If I had had a day's notice to have warned the waters,
we could have met him with a very respectable number of the gentry; but there was no time for
this, and probably he liked it better as it was. There was only young Clifton who could have
come, and he was shy and cubbish, and would not, though requested by the Selkirk people. He
was perhaps ashamed to march through Coventry with them. It hung often and sadly on my mind
that he was wanting who could and would have received him like a Prince indeed; and yet the
meeting betwixt them, had they been fated to meet, would have been a very sad one. I think
I have now given your lordship a very full, true, and particular account of our royal visit,
unmatched even by that of King Charles at the Castle of Tillietudlem. That we did not speak
of it for more than a week after it happened, and that that emphatic monosyllable, The Prince,
is not heard amongst us more than ten times a-day, is, on the whole, to the credit of my family's
understanding. The piper is the only one whose brain he seems to have endangered; for, as the
Prince said he preferred him to any he had heard in the Highlands--(which, by the way, shows
his Royal Highness knows nothing of the matter),--the fellow seems to have become incapable
of his ordinary occupation as a forester, and has cut stick and stem without remorse to the
tune of Phail Phranse, i.e. the Prince's welcome.

[Footnote 1: Bundle of hog's bristles; symbol of the soutars.]

To DANIEL TERRY

Progress at Abbotsford

Abbotsford, 10 Nov. 1822.

My dear Terry,

I got all the plans safe, and they are delightful. The library ceiling will be superb, and
we have plenty of ornaments for it without repeating one of those in the eating-room. The plan
of shelves is also excellent, and will, I think, for a long time suffice my collection. The
brasses for the shelves I like--but not the price: the notched ones, after all, do very well.
I have had three grand hawls since I last wrote to you. The pulpit, repentance-stool, King's
seat, and God knows how much of carved wainscot, from the kirk of Dunfermline, enough to coat
the hall to the height of seven feet:--supposing it boarded above, for hanging guns, old portraits,
intermixed with armour, &c.--it will be a superb entrance-gallery: this is hawl the first.
Hawl second is twenty-four pieces of the most splendid Chinese paper, twelve feet high by four
wide, a present from my cousin Hugh Scott, enough to finish the drawing-room and two bedrooms.
Hawl third is a quantity of what is called Jamaica cedar-wood, enough for fitting up both the
drawing-room and the library, including the presses, shelves, &c.: the wood is finely pencilled
and most beautiful, something like the colour of gingerbread; it costs very little more than
oak, works much easier, and is never touched by vermin of any kind. I sent Mr. Atkinson a specimen,
but it was from the plain end of the plank; the interior is finely waved and variegated. Your
kind and unremitting exertions in our favour will soon plenish the drawing-room. Thus we at
present stand. We have a fine old English cabinet, with china, &c.-and two superb elbow-chairs,
the gift of Constable, carved most magnificently, with groups of children, fruit, and flowers,
in the Italian taste: they came from Rome, and are much admired. It seems to me that the mirror
you mention, being framed in carved box, would answer admirably well with the chairs, which
are of the same material. The mirror should, I presume, be placed over the drawing-room chimney-piece;
and opposite to it I mean to put an antique table of mosaic marbles, to support Chantrey's
bust. A good sofa would be desirable, and so would the tapestry screen, if really fresh and
beautiful; but as much of our furniture will be a little antiquated, one would not run too
much into that taste in so small an apartment. For the library I have the old oak chairs now
in the little armoury, eight in number, and we might add one or two pair of the ebony chairs
you mention. I should think this enough, for many seats in such a room must impede access to
the books; and I don't mean the library to be on ordinary occasions a public room. Perhaps
the tapestry-screen would suit better here than in the drawing-room. I have one library table
here, and shall have another made for atlases and prints. For the hall I have four chairs of
black oak. In other matters we can make it out well enough. In fact, it is my object rather
to keep under my new accommodations at first, both to avoid immediate outlay, and that I may
leave room for pretty things which may occur hereafter. I would to Heaven I could take a cruise
with you through the brokers, which would be the pleasantest affair possible, only I am afraid
I should make a losing voyage of it. Mr. Atkinson has missed a little my idea of the oratory,
fitting it up entirely as a bookcase, whereas I should like to have had recesses for curiosities--for
the Bruce's skull--for a crucifix, &c., &c.-in short, a little cabinet instead of a book-closet.
Four sides of books would be perfectly sufficient; the other four, so far as not occupied by
door or window, should be arranged tastefully for antiquities, &c., like the inside of an antique
cabinet, with drawers, and shottles, and funny little arches. The oak screen dropped as from
the clouds: it is most acceptable; I might have guessed there was only one kind friend so ready
to supply hay to my hobby-horse. You have my views in these matters and your own taste; and
I will send the needful when you apprise me of the amount total. Where things are not quite
satisfactory, it is better to wait a while on every account, for the amusement is over when
one has room for nothing more. The house is completely roofed, &c., and looks worthy of Mrs.
Terry's painting. I never saw anything handsomer than the grouping of towers, chimneys, &c.
upon the roof, when seen at a proper distance.

Once more, let me wish you joy of your professional success. I can judge, by a thousand minute
items, of the advance you make with the public, just as I can of the gradual progress of my
trees, because I am interested in both events. You may say, like Burke, you were not 'coaxed
and dandled into eminence' but have fought your way gallantly, shown your passport at every
barrier, and been always a step in advance, without a single retrograde movement. Every one
wishes to advance rapidly, but when the desired position is gained, it is far more easily maintained
by him whose ascent has been gradual, and whose favour is founded not on the unreasonable expectations
entertained from one or two seasons, but from an habitual experience of the power of pleasing
during several years. You say not a word of poor Wattles. I hope little Miss has not put his
nose out of joint entirely.

I have not been very well--a whoreson thickness of blood, and a depression of spirits arising
from the loss of friends (to whom I am now to add poor Wedderburne), have annoyed me much;
and Peveril will, I fear, smell of the apoplexy. I propose a good rally, however, and hope
it will be a powerful effect. My idea is, entre nous, a Scotch archer in the French King's
guard, tempore Louis XI, the most picturesque of all times.

TO J.B.S. MORRITT

A brave face to the world

Edinburgh, 6 Feb. 1826.

MY DEAR MORRITT,

It is very true I have been, and am in danger, of a pecuniary loss, and probably a very large
one, which in the uncertainty I look at as to the full extent, being the manly way of calculating
such matters, since one may be better, but can hardly be worse. I can't say I feel overjoyed
at losing a large sum of hard-earned money in a most unexpected manner, for all men considered
Constable's people secure as the Bank; yet, as I have obtained an arrangement of payment convenient
for every body concerned, and easy for myself, I cannot say that I care much about the matter.
Some economical restrictions I will make; and it happened oddly that they were such as Lady
Scott and myself had almost determined upon without this compulsion. Abbotsford will henceforth
be our only establishment; and during the time I must be in town, I will take my bed at the
Albyn Club. We shall also break off the rather excessive hospitality to which we were exposed,
and no longer stand host and hostess to all that do pilgrimage to Melrose. Then I give up an
expensive farm, which I always hated, and turn all my odds and ends into cash. I do not reckon
much on my literary exertions--I mean in proportion to former success--because popular taste
may fluctuate. But with a moderate degree of the favour which I have always had, my time my
own, and my mind unplagued about other things, I may boldly promise myself soon to get the
better of this blow. In these circumstances, I should be unjust and ungrateful to ask or accept
the pity of my friends. I for one, do not see there is much occasion for making moan about it.

I envy your Brighton party, and your fine weather. When I was at Abbotsford the mercury was
down at six or seven in the morning more than once. I am hammering away at a bit of a story
from the old affair of the diablerie at Woodstock in the Long Parliament times. I don't like
it much. I am obliged to hamper my fanatics greatly too much to make them effective; but I
make the sacrifice on principle; so, perhaps, I shall deserve good success in other parts of
the work. You will be surprised when I tell you that I have written a volume in exactly fifteen
days. To be sure, I permitted no interruptions. But then I took exercise, and for ten days
of the fifteen attended the Court of Session from two to four hours every day. This is nothing,
however, to writing Ivanhoe when I had the actual cramp in my stomach; but I have no idea of
these things preventing a man from doing what he has a mind. My love to all the party at Brighton--fireside
party I had almost said, but you scorn my words--seaside party then be it. Lady Scott and Anne
join in kindest love. I must close my letter, for one of the consequences of our misfortunes
is, that we dine every day at half-past four o'clock; which premature hour arises, I suppose,
from sorrow being hungry as well as thirsty. One most laughable part of our tragic comedy was,
that every friend in the world came formally, just as they do here when a relation dies, thinking
that the eclipse of les beaux yeux de ma cassette was perhaps a loss as deserving of consolation.

TO MARIA EDGEWORTH

Time's revenges

Edinburgh, 23 June, 1830.

MY DEAR MISS EDGEWORTH,

Nothing would be so valuable to me as the mark of kindness which you offer, and yet my kennel
is so much changed since I had the pleasure of seeing you, that I must not accept of what I
wished so sincerely to possess. I am the happy owner of two of the noble breed, each of gigantic
size, and the gift of that sort of Highlander whom we call a High Chief, so I would hardly
be justified in parting with them even to make room for your kind present, and I should have
great doubts whether the mountaineers would receive the Irish stranger with due hospitality.
One of them I had from poor Glengarry, who, with all the wild and fierce points of his character,
had a kind, honest, and warm heart. The other from a young friend, whom Highlanders call MacVourigh,
and Lowlanders MacPherson of Cluny. He is a fine spirited boy, fond of his people and kind
to them, and the best dancer of a Highland reel now living. I fear I must not add a third to
Nimrod and Bran, having little use for them except being pleasant companions. As to labouring
in their vocation, we have only one wolf which I know of, kept in a friend's menagerie near
me, and no wild deer. Walter has some roebucks indeed, but Lochore is far off, and I begin
to feel myself distressed at running down these innocent and beautiful creatures, perhaps because
I cannot gallop so fast after them as to drown sense of the pain we are inflicting. And yet
I suspect I am like the sick fox; and if my strength and twenty years could come back, I would
become again a copy of my namesake, remembered by the sobriquet of Walter ill tae hauld (to
hold, that is). 'But age has clawed me in its clutch,' and there is no remedy for increasing
disability except dying, which is an awkward score.

There is some chance of my retiring from my official situation upon the changes in the Court
of Session. They cannot reduce my office, though they do not wish to fill it up with a new
occupant. I shall be therefore de trop; and in these days of economy they will be better pleased
to let me retire on three parts of my salary than to keep me a Clerk of Session on the whole;
and small grief at our parting, as the old horse said to the broken cart. And yet, though I
thought such a proposal when first made was like a Pisgah peep at Paradise, I cannot help being
a little afraid of changing the habits of a long life all of a sudden and for ever. You ladies
have always your work-basket and stocking-knitting to wreak an hour of tediousness upon. The
routine of business serves, I suspect, for the same purpose to us male wretches; it is seldom
a burden to the mind, but a something which must be done, and is done almost mechanically;
and though dull judges and duller clerks, the routine of law proceedings, and law forms, are
very unlike the plumed troops and the tug of war, yet the result is the same. The occupation's
gone. The morning, that the day's news must all be gathered from other sources--that the jokes
which the principal Clerks of Session have laughed at weekly for a century, and which would
not move a muscle of any other person's face, must be laid up to perish like those of Sancho
in the Sierra Morena--I don't above half like forgetting all these moderate habits, and yet

  Ah, freedom is a noble thing!

as says the old Scottish poet. So I will cease my regrets, or lay them by to be taken up and
used as arguments of comfort, in case I do not slip my cable after all, which is highly possible.
Lockhart and Sophia have taken up their old residence at Chiefswood. They are very fond of
the place; and I am glad also my grandchildren will be bred near the heather, for certain qualities
which I think are best taught there.

MY DEAR SIR,

I cannot express how kind I felt your letter. Would to Heaven I had had many with feelings
like yours, 'accustomed to express themselves warmly and (as far as the word is applicable
to you), even enthusiastically'. But alas! during the prime manhood of my intellect I had nothing
but cold water thrown on my efforts. I speak not now of my systematic and most unprovoked maligners.
On them I have retorted only by pity and by prayer. These may have, and doubtless have, joined
with the frivolity of 'the reading public' in checking and almost in preventing the sale of
my works; and so far have done injury to my purse. Me they have not injured. Yet they knew
that to praise, as mere praise, I was characteristically, almost constitutionally, indifferent.
In sympathy alone I found at once nourishment and stimulus; and for sympathy alone did my heart
crave. They knew, too, how long and faithfully I have acted on the maxim, never to admit the
faults of a work of genius to those who denied or were incapable of feeling and understanding
the beauties; not from wilful partiality, but as well knowing that in saying truth I should,
to such critics, convey falsehood. If, in one instance, in my literary life I have appeared
to deviate from this rule, first, it was not till the fame of the writer (which I had been
for fourteen years successfully toiling like a second Ali to build up) had been established;
and secondly and chiefly, with the purpose and, I may safely add, with the effect of rescuing
the necessary task from Malignant Defamers, and in order to set forth the excellences and the
trifling proportion which the defects bore to the excellences. But this, my dear sir, is a
mistake to which affectionate natures are too liable, though I do not remember to have ever
seen it noticed--the mistaking those who are desirous and well pleased to be loved by you,
for those who love you. Add, as a more general cause, the fact that I neither am nor ever have
been of any party. What wonder, then, if I am left to decide which has been my worst enemy,
the broad, pre-determined abuse of the Edinburgh Review, &c., or the cold and brief compliments,
with the warm regrets, of the Quarterly? After all, however, I have now but one sorrow relative
to the ill success of my literary toils (and toils they have been, though not undelightful
toils), and this arises wholly from the almost insurmountable difficulties which the anxieties
of to-day oppose to my completion of the great work, the form and materials of which it has
been the employment of the best and most genial hours of the last twenty years to mature and
collect.

If I could but have a tolerably numerous audience to my first, or first and second Lectures
on the History of Philosophy, I should entertain a strong hope of success, because I know that
these lectures will be found by far the most interesting and entertaining of any that I have
yet delivered, independent of the more permanent interest of rememberable instruction. Few
and unimportant would the errors of men be, if they did but know, first, what they themselves
meant; and, secondly, what the words mean by which they attempt to convey their meaning, and
I can conceive no subject so well fitted to exemplify the mode and the importance of these
two points as the History of Philosophy, treated as in the scheme of these lectures.

TO THE SAME

The Great Work described

Jan. 1821. The History of the English Drama; the accidental advantages it afforded to Shakespeare,
without in the least detracting from the perfect originality or proper creation of the Shakespearian
Drama; the contradistinction of the latter from the Greek Drama, and its still remaining uniqueness,
with the causes of this, from the combined influences of Shakespeare himself, as man, poet,
philosopher, and finally, by conjunction of all these, dramatic poet; and of the age, events,
manners, and state of the English language. This work, with every art of compression, amounts
to three volumes of about five hundred pages each. (2) Philosophical Analysis of the Genius
and Works of Dante, Spenser, Milton, Cervantes, and Calderon, with similar, but more compressed
criticisms on Chaucer, Ariosto, Donne, Rabelais, and others, during the predominance of the
Romantic Poetry. In one large volume. Two volumes. You will not blame the earnestness of my
expressions, nor the high importance which I attach to this work: for how, with less noble
objects, and less faith in their attainment, could I stand acquitted of folly, and abuse of
time, talents, and learning in a labour of three-fourths of my intellectual life? Of this work,
something more than a volume has been dictated by me, so as to exist fit for the press, to
my friend and enlightened pupil, Mr. Green; and more than as much again would have been evolved
and delivered to paper, but that, for the last six or eight months, I have been compelled to
break off our weekly meeting, from the necessity of writing (alas! alas! of attempting to write)
for purposes, and on the subjects, of the passing day.

TO THE SAME

Reminiscences

4 March, 1822.

My Dearest Friend,

I have been much more than ordinarily unwell for more than a week past--my sleeps worse than
my vigils, my nights than my days;

  --The night's dismay
  Sadden'd and stunned the intervening day;

but last night I had not only a calmer night, without roaming in my dreams through any of Swedenborg's
Hells modérés; but arose this morning lighter and with a sense of relief....

I shall make you smile, as I did dear Mary Lamb, when I say that you sometimes mistake my position.
As individual to individual, from my childhood, I do not remember feeling myself either superior
or inferior to any human being; except by an act of my own will in cases of real or imagined
moral or intellectual superiority. In regard to worldly rank, from eight years old to nineteen,
I was habituated, nay, naturalised, to look up to men circumstanced as you are, as my superiors--a
large number of our governors, and almost all of those whom we regarded as greater men still,
and whom we saw most of, viz. our committee governors, were such--and as neither awake nor
asleep have I any other feelings than what I had at Christ's Hospital, I distinctly remember
that I felt a little flush of pride and consequence--just like what we used to feel at school
when the boys came running to us--'Coleridge! here's your friends want you--they are quite
grand,' or 'It is quite a lady'--when I first heard who you were, and laughed at myself for
it with that pleasurable sensation that, spite of my sufferings at that school, still accompanies
any sudden reawakening of our school-boy feelings and notions. And oh, from sixteen to nineteen
what hours of Paradise had Allen and I in escorting the Miss Evanses home on a Saturday, who
were then at a milliner's whom we used to think, and who I believe really was, such a nice
lady;--and we used to carry thither, of a summer morning, the pillage of the flower gardens
within six miles of town, with Sonnet or Love Rhyme wrapped round the nose-gay. To be feminine,
kind, and genteelly (what I should now call neatly) dressed, these were the only things to
which my head, heart, or imagination had any polarity, and what I was then, I still am.

God bless you and yours.

My dear Cottle,...

What you say of my copyrights affected me very much.

TO JOHN MAY

Waterloo

Liège, 6 Oct. 1815. Six p.m.

My dear friend,

I have a happy habit of making the best of all things; and being just at this time as uncomfortable
as the dust and bustle, and all the disagreeables of an inn in a large filthy manufacturing
city can make me, I have called for pen, ink, and paper, and am actually writing in the bar,
the door open to the yard opposite to this unwiped table, the doors open to the public room,
where two men are dining, and talking French, and a woman servant at my elbow is lighting a
fire for our party. Presently the folding-doors are to be shut, the ladies are to descend from
their chambers, the bar will be kept appropriated to our house, the male part of the company
will get into good humour, dinner will be ready, and then I must lay aside the grey goose-quill.
As a preliminary to these promised comforts, the servant is mopping the hearth, which is composed
(like a tesselated pavement) of little bricks about two inches long by half an inch wide, set
within a broad black stone frame. The fuel is of fire-balls, a mixture of pulverized coal and
clay. I have seen a great deal and heard a great deal,--more, indeed, than I can keep pace
with in my journal, though I strive hard to do it; but I minute down short notes in my pencil-book
with all possible care, and hope, in the end, to lose nothing....

Flanders is a most interesting country. Bruges, the most striking city I have ever seen, an
old city in perfect preservation. It seems as if not a house had been built during the last
two centuries, and not a house suffered to pass to decay. The poorest people seem to be well
lodged, and there is a general air of sufficiency, cleanliness, industry, and comfort, which
I have never seen in any other place. The cities have grown worse as we advanced. At Namur
we reached a dirty city, situated in a romantic country; the Meuse there reminded me of the
Thames from your delightful house, an island in size and shape resembling that upon which I
have often wished for a grove of poplars, coming just in the same position. From thence along
the river to this abominable place, the country is, for the greater part, as lovely as can
be imagined....

Our weather hitherto has been delightful. This was especially fortunate at Waterloo and at
Ligny, where we had much ground to walk over. It would surprise you to see how soon nature
has recovered from the injuries of war. The ground is ploughed and sown, and grain and flowers
and seeds already growing over the field of battle, which is still strewn with vestiges of
the slaughter, caps, cartridges, boxes, hats, &c. We picked up some French cards and some bullets,
and we purchased a French pistol and two of the eagles which the infantry wear upon their caps.
What I felt upon this ground, it would be difficult to say; what I saw, and still more what
I heard, there is no time at present for saying. In prose and in verse you shall some day hear
the whole. At Les Quatre Bras, I saw two graves, which probably the dogs or the swine had opened.
In the one were the ribs of a human body, projecting through the mould; in the other, the whole
skeleton exposed. Some of our party told me of a third, in which the worms were at work, but
I shrunk from the sight. You will rejoice to hear that the English are as well spoken of for
their deportment in peace as in war. It is far otherwise with the Prussians. Concerning them
there is but one opinion; their brutality is said to exceed that of the French, and of their
intolerable insolence I have heard but too many proofs. That abominable old Frederic made them
a military nation, and this is the inevitable consequence. This very day we passed a party
on their way towards France--some hundred or two. Two gentlemen and two ladies of the country,
in a carriage, had come up with them; and these ruffians would not allow them to pass, but
compelled them to wait and follow the slow pace of foot soldiers! This we ourselves saw. Next
to the English, the Belgians have the best character for discipline....

I bought at Bruges a French History of Brazil, just published by M. Alphonse de Beauchamp,
in 3 vols. 8vo. He says, in his Preface, that having finished the first two volumes, he thought
it advisable to see if any new light had been thrown upon the subject by modern authors. Meantime,
a compilation upon this history had appeared in England, but the English author, Mr. Southey,
had brought no new lights; he had promised much for his second volume, but the hope of literary
Europe had been again deceived, for this second volume, so emphatically promised, had not appeared.
I dare say no person regrets this delay so much as M. Beauchamp, he having stolen the whole
of his two first volumes, and about the third part of the other, from the very Mr. Southey
whom he abuses. He has copied my references as the list of his own authorities (MSS. and all),
and he has committed blunders which prove, beyond all doubt, that he does not understand Portuguese.
I have been much diverted by this fellow's impudence.

The table is laid, and the knives and forks rattling a pleasant note of preparation, as the
woman waiter arranges them.

God bless you! I have hurried through the sheet, and thus pleasantly beguiled what would have
been a very unpleasant hour. We are all well, and your god-daughter has seen a live emperor
at Brussels. I feel the disadvantage of speaking French ill, and understanding it by the ear
worse. Nevertheless, I speak it without remorse, make myself somehow or other understood, and
get at what I want to know. Once more, God bless you, my dear friend.

To HENRY TAYLOR

Anastasius Hope

Keswick, 15 July, 1831.

... Have you seen the strange book which Anastasius Hope left for publication, and which his
representatives, in spite of all dissuasion, have published? His notion of immortality and
heaven is, that at the consummation of all things he, and you, and I, and John Murray, and
Nebuchadnezzar, and Lambert the fat man, and the living skeleton, and Queen Elizabeth, and
the Hottentot Venus, and Thurtell, and Probert, and the twelve Apostles, and the noble army
of martyrs, and Genghis Khan, and all his armies, and Noah with all his ancestors and all his
posterity--yea, all men and all women, and all children that have ever been or ever shall be,
saints and sinners alike--are all to be put together, and made into one great celestial eternal
human being. He does not seem to have known how nearly this approaches to Swedenborg's fancy.
I do not like the scheme. I don't like the notion of being mixed up with Hume, and Hunt, and
Whittle Harvey, and Philpotts, and Lord Althorpe, and the Huns, and the Hottentots, and the
Jews, and the Philistines, and the Scotch, and the Irish. God forbid! I hope to be I myself;
I, in an English heaven, with you yourself--you, and some others, without whom heaven would
be no heaven to me. God bless you!

TO EDWARD MOXON

Recollections of the Lambs

Keswick, 2 Feb. 1836.

My dear sir,

I have been too closely engaged in clearing off the second volume of Cowper to reply to your
inquiries concerning poor Lamb sooner. His acquaintance with Coleridge began at Christ's Hospital;
Lamb was some two years, I think, his junior. Whether he was ever one of the Grecians there,
might be ascertained, I suppose, by inquiring. My own impression is, that he was not. Coleridge
introduced me to him in the winter of 1794-5, and to George Dyer also, from whom, if his memory
has not failed, you might probably learn more of Lamb's early history than from any other person.
Lloyd, Wordsworth, and Hazlitt became known to him through their connexion with Coleridge.

When I saw the family (one evening only, and at that time), they were lodging somewhere near
Lincoln's Inn, on the western side (I forget the street), and were evidently in uncomfortable
circumstances. The father and mother were both living; and I have some dim recollection of
the latter's invalid appearance. The father's senses had failed him before that time. He published
some poems in quarto. Lamb showed me once an imperfect copy: the Sparrow's Wedding was the
title of the longest piece, and this was the author's favourite; he liked, in his dotage, to
hear Charles read it.

His most familiar friend, when I first saw him, was White, who held some office at Christ's
Hospital, and continued intimate with him as long as he lived. You know what Elia says of him.
He and Lamb were joint authors of the Original Letters of Falstaff. Lamb, I believe, first
appeared as an author in the second edition of Coleridge's Poems (Bristol, 1797), and, secondly,
in the little volume of blank verse with Lloyd (1798).

Lloyd, who used to form sudden friendships, was all but a stranger to me, when unexpectedly
he brought Lamb down to visit me at a little village (Burton) near Christchurch, in Hampshire,
where I was lodging in a very humble cottage. This was in the summer of 1797, and then, or
in the following year, my correspondence with Lamb began. I saw more of him in 1802 than at
any other time, for I was then six months resident in London. His visit to this county was
before I came to it; it must have been either in that or in the following year: it was to Lloyd
and to Coleridge.

I had forgotten one of his schoolfellows, who is still living--C.V. Le Grice, a clergyman at
or near Penzance. From him you might learn something of his boyhood.

Cottle has a good likeness of Lamb, in chalk, taken by an artist named Robert Hancock, about
the year 1798. It looks older than Lamb was at that time; but he was old-looking.

Coleridge introduced him to Godwin, shortly after the first number of the Anti-Jacobin Magazine
and Review was published, with a caricature of Gillray's, in which Coleridge and I were introduced
with asses' heads, and Lloyd and Lamb as toad and frog. Lamb got warmed with whatever was on
the table, became disputatious, and said things to Godwin which made him quietly say, 'Pray,
Mr. Lamb, are you toad or frog?' Mrs. Coleridge will remember the scene, which was to her sufficiently
uncomfortable. But the next morning S.T.C. called on Lamb, and found Godwin breakfasting with
him, from which time their intimacy began.

His angry letter to me in the Magazine arose out of a notion that an expression of mine in
the Quarterly Review would hurt the sale of Elia; some one, no doubt, had said that it would.
I meant to serve the book, and very well remember how the offence happened. I had written that
it wanted nothing to render it altogether delightful but a saner religious feeling. This would
have been the proper word if any other person had written the book. Feeling its extreme unfitness
as soon as it was written, I altered it immediately for the first word which came into my head,
intending to remodel the sentence when it should come to me in the proof; and that proof never
came. There can be no objection to your printing all that passed upon the occasion, beginning
with the passage in the Quarterly Review, and giving his letter.

I have heard Coleridge say that, in a fit of derangement, Lamb fancied himself to be young
Norval. He told me this in relation to one of his poems.

If you will print my lines to him upon his Album Verses, I will send you a corrected copy.
You received his letters, I trust, which Cuthbert took with him to town in October. I wish
they had been more, and wish, also, that I had more to tell you concerning him, and what I
have told were of more value. But it is from such fragments of recollection, and such imperfect
notices, that the materials for biography must, for the most part, be collected.

TO THE SAME

A friend in need

Thursday, 11 June, 1796. Thank you for liking my play! Holcraft is not yet come to town. I
expect to see him, and will deliver your message.

To SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE

The famous pigling

9 March, 1822.

Yours (short of pig) to command in every thing.

MY DEAR LOVE,

Above a week has passed, and I have received no letter--not one of those letters 'in which
I live, or have no life at all'. What is become of you? Are you married, hearing that I was
dead (for so it has been reported)? Or are you gone into a nunnery? Or are you fallen in love
with some of the amorous heroes of Boccaccio? Which of them is it? Is it with Chynon, who was
transformed from a clown into a lover, and learned to spell by the force of beauty? Or with
Lorenzo, the lover of Isabella, whom her three brethren hated (as your brother does me), who
was a merchant's clerk? Or with Federigo Alberigi, an honest gentleman, who ran through his
fortune, and won his mistress by cooking a fair falcon for her dinner, though it was the only
means he had left of getting a dinner for himself? This last is the man; and I am the more
persuaded of it, because I think I won your good liking myself by giving you an entertainment--of
sausages, when I had no money to buy them with. Nay now, never deny it! Did I not ask your
consent that very night after, and did you not give it? Well, I should be confoundedly jealous
of those fine gallants, if I did not know that a living dog is better than a dead lion; though,
now I think of it, Boccaccio does not in general make much of his lovers: it is his women who
are so delicious. I almost wish I had lived in those times, and had been a little more amiable.
Now if a woman had written the book, it would not have had this effect upon me: the men would
have been heroes and angels, and the women nothing at all. Isn't there some truth in that?
Talking of departed loves, I met my old flame the other day in the street. I did dream of her
one night since, and only one: every other night I have had the same dream I have had for these
two months past. Now, if you are at all reasonable, this will satisfy you.

Thursday morning. The book is come. When I saw it I thought you had sent it back in a huff,
tired out by my sauciness, and coldness, and delays, and were going to keep an account of dimities
and sayes, or to salt pork and chronicle small beer as the dutiful wife of some fresh-looking,
rural swain; so that you cannot think how surprised and pleased I was to find them all done.
I liked your note as well or better than the extracts; it is just such a note as such a nice
rogue as you ought to write after the provocation you had received. I would not give a pin
for a girl 'whose cheeks never tingle', nor for myself if I could not make them tingle sometimes.
Now, though I am always writing to you about 'lips and noses', and such sort of stuff, yet
as I sit by my fireside (which I do generally eight or ten hours a day), I oftener think of
you in a serious, sober light. For, indeed, I never love you so well as when I think of sitting
down with you to dinner on a boiled scrag-end of mutton, and hot potatoes. You please my fancy
more then than when I think of you in--no, you would never forgive me if I were to finish the
sentence. Now I think of it, what do you mean to be dressed in when we are married? But it
does not much matter! I wish you would let your hair grow; though perhaps nothing will be better
than 'the same air and look with which at first my heart was took'. But now to business. I
mean soon to call upon your brother in form, namely, as soon as I get quite well, which I hope
to do in about another fortnight; and then I hope you will come up by the coach as fast as
the horses can carry you, for I long mightily to be in your ladyship's presence--to vindicate
my character. I think you had better sell the small house, I mean that at 4.10, and I will
borrow £100. So that we shall set off merrily in spite of all the prudence of Edinburgh. Goodbye,
little dear!

TO HIS SON

Marriage, and the choice of a profession

[1822.]

... If you ever marry, I would wish you to marry the woman you like. Do not be guided by the
recommendations of friends. Nothing will atone for or overcome an original distaste. It will
only increase from intimacy; and if you are to live separate, it is better not to come together.
There is no use in dragging a chain through life, unless it binds one to the object we love.
Choose a mistress from among your equals. You will be able to understand her character better,
and she will be more likely to understand yours. Those in an inferior station to yourself will
doubt your good intentions, and misapprehend your plainest expressions. All that you swear
is to them a riddle or downright nonsense. You cannot by any possibility translate your thoughts
into their dialect. They will be ignorant of the meaning of half you say, and laugh at the
rest. As mistresses, they will have no sympathy with you; and as wives, you can have none with
them.

Women care nothing about poets, or philosophers, or politicians. They go by a man's looks and
manner. Richardson calls them 'an eye-judging sex'; and I am sure he knew more about them than
I can pretend to do. If you run away with a pedantic notion that they care a pin's point about
your head or your heart, you will repent it too late....

If I were to name one pursuit rather than another, I should wish you to be a good painter,
if such a thing could be hoped. I have failed in this myself, and should wish you to be able
to do what I have not--to paint like Claude, or Rembrandt, or Guido, or Vandyke, if it were
possible. Artists, I think, who have succeeded in their chief object, live to be old, and are
agreeable old men. Their minds keep alive to the last. Cosway's spirits never flagged till
after ninety; and Nollekens, though nearly blind, passed all his mornings in giving directions
about some group or bust in his workshop. You have seen Mr. Northcote, that delightful specimen
of the last age. With what avidity he takes up his pencil, or lays it down again to talk of
numberless things! His eye has not lost its lustre, nor 'paled its ineffectual fire'. His body
is but a shadow: he himself is a pure spirit. There is a kind of immortality about this sort
of ideal and visionary existence that dallies with Fate and baffles the grim monster, Death.
If I thought you could make as clever an artist, and arrive at such an agreeable old age as
Mr. Northcote, I should declare at once for your devoting yourself to this enchanting profession;
and in that reliance, should feel less regret at some of my own disappointments, and little
anxiety on your account!

To CHARLES COWDEN CLARKE

The Life of Napoleon

7 Dec. [1827].

DEAR SIR,

I thought all the world agreed with me at present that Buonaparte was better than the Bourbons,
or that a tyrant was better than tyranny. In my opinion, no one of an understanding above the
rank of a lady's waiting-maid could ever have doubted this, though I alone said it ten years
ago. It might be impolicy then and now for what I know, for the world stick to an opinion in
appearance long after they have given it up in reality. I should like to know whether the preface
is thought impolitic by some one who agrees with me in the main point, or by some one who differs
with me and makes this excuse not to have his opinion contradicted? In Paris (jubes regina
renovare dolorem) the preface was thought a masterpiece, the best and only possible defence
of Buonaparte, and quite new there! It would be an impertinence in me to write a Life of Buonaparte
after Sir W. without some such object as that expressed in the preface. After all, I do not
care a damn about the preface. It will get me on four pages somewhere else. Shall I retract
my opinion altogether, and forswear my own book? Rayner is right to cry out: I think I have
tipped him fair and foul copy, a lean rabbit and a fat one. The remainder of vol. ii will be
ready to go on with, but not the beginning of the third. The appendixes had better be at the
end of the second vol. Pray get them if you can: you have my Sieyes, have you not? One of them
is there. I have been nearly in the other world. My regret was 'to die and leave the world
"rough" copy'. Otherwise I had thought of an epitaph and a good end. Hic jacent reliquiae mortales
Gulielmi Hazlitt, auctoris non intelligibilis: natus Maidstoniae in comi [ta] tu Cantiae, Apr.
10, 1778. Obiit Winterslowe, Dec., 1827. I think of writing an epistle to C. Lamb, Esq., to
say that I have passed near the shadowy world, and have had new impressions of the vanity of
this, with hopes of a better. Don't you think this would be good policy? Don't mention it to
the severe author of the 'Press', a poem, but me thinks the idea arridet Hone. He would give
sixpence to see me floating, upon a pair of borrowed wings, half way between heaven and earth,
and edifying the good people at my departure, whom I shall only scandalize by remaining. At
present my study and contemplation is the leg of a stewed fowl. I have behaved like a saint,
and been obedient to orders.

Non fit pugil, &c., I got a violent spasm by walking fifteen miles in the mud, and getting
into a coach with an old lady who would have the window open. Delicacy, moderation, complaisance,
the suaviter in modo, whisper it about, my dear Clarke, these are my faults and have been my
ruin. But still I should have written to you, had I not been almost at death's door myself.
You will imagine how ill I have been, when you hear that I have but just begun writing again
for the Examiner and Indicator, after an interval of several months, during which my flesh
wasted from me with sickness and melancholy. Judge how often I thought of Keats, and with what
feelings. Mr. Brown tells me he is comparatively calm now, or rather quite so. If he can bear
to hear of us, pray tell him; but he knows it already, and can put it in better language than
any man. I hear that he does not like to be told that he may get better; nor is it to be wondered
at, considering his firm persuasion that he shall not survive. He can only regard it as a puerile
thing, and an insinuation that he shall die. But if his persuasion should happen to be no longer
so strong, or if he can now put up with attempts to console him, of what I have said a thousand
times, and what I still (upon my honour) think always, that I have seen too many instances
of recovery from apparently desperate cases of consumption not to be in hope to the very last.
If he still cannot bear this, tell him--tell that great poet and noble-hearted man--that we
shall all bear his memory in the most precious part of our hearts, and that the world shall
bow their heads to it, as our loves do. Or if this, again, will trouble his spirit, tell him
that we shall never cease to remember and love him; and that, Christian or infidel, the most
sceptical of us has faith enough in the high things that nature puts into our heads, to think
all who are of one accord in mind or heart are journeying to one and the same place, and shall
unite somewhere or other again, face to face, mutually conscious, mutually delighted. Tell
him he is only before us on the road, as he is in everything else; or, whether you tell him
the latter or no, tell him the former, and add that we shall never forget that he was so, and
that we are coming after him. The tears are again in my eyes, and I must not afford to shed
them. The next letter I write shall be more to yourself, and more refreshing to your spirits,
which we are very sensible must have been greatly taxed. But whether your friend dies or not,
it will not be among the least lofty of your recollections by-and-by that you helped to smooth
the sick-bed of so fine a being. God bless you, dear Severn.

[Footnote 1: Keats died in February.]

To PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY

Outpourings of gratitude

Stonehouse, near Plymouth, 26 March, 1822.

MY DEAREST FRIEND,

Your letters always contain something delightful to me, whatever news they bring.

  Surgit amici aliquid, quod in ipsis nubibus
  ardet.

But I confess your latter ones have greatly relieved me on the subject you speak of. They only
make me long, with an extreme Homeric longing, to be at Pisa,--I mean such an one as Achilles
felt when he longed to be with his father,--sharp in his very limbs. We have secured a ship,
the David Walter, which will call for us here, and sets sail from London in a fortnight. I
have written by to-day's post with intelligence of it to Mrs. Fletcher, enclosing her the letter,
and giving her the option of going on board in London, or here. I need not say we shall attend
to her comforts in every respect. The same post also carries a letter to Mr. Gisborne, stating
your wishes, and wonders respecting Adonais. If it is not published before I leave England,
I will publish my criticism upon the Pisa copy,--a criticism which I think you will like. I
take the opportunity of showing the public why Gifford's review spoke so bitterly of Prometheus,
and why it pretends that the most metaphysical passage of your most metaphysical poem is a
specimen of the clearness of your general style. The wretched priest-like cunning and undertoned
malignity of that review of Prometheus is indeed a homage paid to qualities which can so provoke
it. The Quarterly pretends now, that it never meddles with you personally,--of course it never
did! For this, Blackwood cries out upon it, contrasting its behaviour in those delicate matters
with its own! This is better and better, and the public seem to think so; for these things,
depend upon it, are getting better understood every day, and shall be better and better understood
every day to come. One circumstance which helps to reconcile me to having been detained on
this coast, is the opportunity it has given me to make your works speak for themselves wherever
I could; and you are in high lustre, I assure you, with the most intelligent circles in Plymouth,
[Greek: astaer epsos]. I have, indeed, been astonished to find how well prepared people of
intelligence are to fall in with your aspirations, and despise the mistakes and rascally instincts
of your calumniators. This place, for instance, abounds in schoolmasters, who appear, to a
man, to be liberal to an extreme and esoterical degree. And such, there is reason to believe,
is the case over the greater part of the kingdom, greatly, no doubt, owing to political causes.
Think of the consequences of this with the rising generation. I delight in Adonais. It is the
most Delphic poetry I have seen a long while; full of those embodyings of the most subtle and
airy imaginations,--those arrestings and explanations of the most shadowy yearnings of our
being--which are the most difficult of all things to put into words, and the most delightful
when put. I do not know whether you are aware how fond I am of your song on the Skylark; but
you ought, if Ollier sent you a copy of the enlarged Calendar of Nature, which he published
separately under the title of the Months. I tell you this, because I have not done half or
a twentieth part of what I ought to have done to make your writings properly appreciated. But
I intended to do more every day, and now that I am coming to you, I shall be totus in you and
yours! For all good, and healthy, and industrious things, I will do such wonders, that I shall
begin to believe I make some remote approach to something like a return for your kindness.
Yet how can that be? At all events, I hope we shall all be the better for one another's society.
Marianne, poor dear girl, is still very ailing and weak, but stronger upon the whole, she thinks,
than when she first left London, and quite prepared and happy to set off on her spring voyage.
She sends you part of her best love. I told her I supposed I must answer Marina's letter for
her, but she is quite grand on the occasion, and vows she will do it herself, which, I assure
you, will be the first time she has written a letter for many months. Ask Marina if she will
be charitable, and write one to me. I will undertake to answer it with one double as long.
But what am I talking about, when the captain speaks of sailing in a fortnight? I was led astray
by her delightful letter to Marianne about walks, and duets, and violets, and ladies like violets.
Am I indeed to see and be in the midst of all these beautiful things, ladies like lilies not
excepted? And do the men in Italy really leave ladies to walk in those very amiable dry ditches
by themselves? Oh! for a few strides, like those of Neptune, when he went from some place to
some other place, and 'did it in three!' Dear Shelley, I am glad my letter to Lord B. pleased
you, though I do not know why you should so thank me for it. But you are ingenious in inventing
claims for me upon your affection.

To HORACE SMITH

Shelley's death

Pisa, 25 July, 1822.

Dear Horace,

I trust that the first news of the dreadful calamity which has befallen us here will have been
broken to you by report, otherwise I shall come upon you with a most painful abruptness; but
Shelley, my divine-minded friend, your friend, the friend of the universe, he has perished
at sea. He was in a boat with his friend Captain Williams, going from Leghorn to Lerici, when
a storm arose, and it is supposed the boat must have foundered. It was on the 8th instant,
about four or five in the evening, they guess. A fisherman says he saw the boat a few minutes
before it went down: he looked again and it was gone. He saw the boy they had with them aloft
furling one of the sails. We hope his story is true, as their passage from life to death will
then have been short; and what adds to the hope is, that in S's pocket (for the bodies were
both thrown on shore some days afterwards,--conceive our horrible certainty, after trying all
we could to hope!) a copy of Keats's last volume, which he had borrowed of me to read on his
passage, was found open and doubled back as if it had been thrust in, in the hurry of a surprise.
God bless him! I cannot help thinking of him as if he were alive as much as ever, so unearthly
he always appeared to me, and so seraphical a thing of the elements; and this is what all his
friends say. But what we all feel, your own heart will tell you....

It has been often feared that Shelley and Captain Williams would meet with some accident, they
were so hazardous; but when they set out on the 8th, in the morning it was fine. Our dear friend
was passionately fond of the sea, and has been heard to say he should like it to be his death-bed....

To MRS. PROCTER

Accepting an invitation

5 York Buildings, 13 March [1831].

MY DEAR MRS. PROCTER (for Madam, somehow, is
               not the thing),

I am most pleased to be reminded of my promise, which I must have made if you say I did. I
suppose I have been coming to keep it ever since; but it is a long road from sorrow to joy,
and one is apt to get confused on the road. Do you know your letter brought the tears into
my eyes? I hardly know why, unless it was that I saw Procter had been pouring his kind heart
into yours, and you said:--'We must have him here instead of the coffee-house, and plant him
by the fire, and warm him like a stray bird till he sings.' But indeed a kind word affects
me where many a hard thump does not. Nevertheless, you must not tell this, except to the very
masculine or feminine; though if you do not take it as a compliment to yourself,--I mean the
confession of my weakness,--why, you are not Procter's wife, nor Mrs. Montagu's daughter, nor
she who wrote the letter this morning to a poor battered author.

PS. I eat any plain joint, of the plainer order, beef or mutton:--and you know I care for nothing
at dinner, so that it does not hurt me. Friends' company is the thing.

To A FRIEND

Offence and punishment

Wimbledon, 11 and 12 August, 1846.

... I find I made a great confusion of my portion of the legal expenses incurred by the Examiner,
with the whole of them. That portion only amounted to £750, the whole being £1500. Of this
£750 out of my pocket (which was quite enough), £250 went to pay for expenses (counsel, &c.)
attendant on the failure of two Government prosecutions,--one for saying (totidem verbis) that
'of all monarchs since the Revolution, the successor of George III would have the finest opportunity
of becoming nobly popular'; (think, nowadays, of being prosecuted for that!) and the other
for copying from the Stamford News the paragraph against military flogging, alluded to the
other day in the Daily News. (Think, now, this moment, of being prosecuted for That!) The £500
fine and two years' imprisonment was for ludicrously contrasting the Morning Post's picture
of the Regent as an 'Adonis', &c. with the old and real fat state of the case, and for adding
that his Royal Highness had lived for 'upwards of half a century without doing anything to
deserve the admiration of his contemporaries or the gratitude of posterity'. Words to that
effect, and I believe better,--but I do not quite remember them. They might be easily ascertained
by reference to Peel's Coffee-house, and the words of the Post, too.

Besides the fine, my imprisonment cost me several hundred pounds (I can't exactly say how many)
in monstrous douceurs to the gaoler for liberty to walk in the garden, for help towards getting
me permission to fit up rooms in the sick hospital, and for fitting up said rooms, or rather
converting them from sorts of washhouses, hitherto uninhabited and unfloored, into comfortable
apartments,--which I did too expensively,--at least as far as papering the sitting-room with
a trellis of roses went, and having my ceiling painted to imitate an out-of-door sky. No notice,
however, could be taken, I suppose, of any of this portion of the expenses, governments having
nothing to do with the secret corruptions of gaolers or the pastorals of incarcerated poets:
otherwise the prosecutions cost me altogether a good bit beyond a thousand pounds.

But perhaps it might be mentioned that I went to prison from all but a sick bed, having been
just ordered by the physician to go to the seaside, and ride for the benefit of my health (pleasing
dramatic contrast to the verdict!). I also declined, as I told you, to try avoiding the imprisonment
by the help of Perry's offer of the famous secret 'Book'; and I further declined (as I think
I also told you) to avail myself of an offer on the part of a royal agent (made, of course,
in the guarded, though obvious manner in which such offers are conveyed), to drop the prosecution,
provided we would agree to drop all future hostile mention of the Regent. But of this, too,
governments could not be expected to take notice--perhaps would regard it as an addition to
the offence. This, however, I must add, that the whole attack on the Regent was owing, not
merely to the nonsense of the Post, but to his violation of those promises of conceding the
Catholic claims, to which his princely word stood pledged. The subject of the article was the
'Dinner on St. Patrick's day'. All the Whig world was indignant at that violation; so were
the Irish, of course, vehemently; and it was on the spur of this publicly indignant movement
that I wrote what I did,--as angrily and as much in earnest in the serious part of what I said
as I was derisive in the rest. I did not care for any factious object, nor was I what is called
anti-monarchical. I didn't know Cobbett, or Henry Hunt, or any demagogue, even by sight, except
Sir Francis Burdett, and him by sight alone. Nor did I ever see, or speak a word with them,
afterwards. I knew nothing, in fact, of politics themselves, except in some of those large
and, as it appeared to me, obvious phases, which, at all events, have since become obvious
to most people, and in fighting for which (if a man can be said to fight for a 'phase'!) I
suffered all that Tories could inflict upon me,--by expenses in law and calumnies in literature;--reform,
Catholic claims, free trade, abolition of flogging, right of free speech, as opposed by attorneys-general.
I was, in fact, all the while nothing but a poetic student, appearing in politics once a week,
but given up entirely to letters almost all the rest of it, and loving nothing so much as a
book and a walk in the fields. I was precisely the sort of person, in these respects, which
I am at this moment. As to George the Fourth, I aided, years afterwards, in publicly wishing
him well--'years having brought the philosophic mind'. I believe I even expressed regret at
not having given him the excuses due to all human beings (the passage, I take it, is in the
book which Colburn called Lord Byron and his Contemporaries); and when I consider that Moore
has been pensioned, not only in spite of all his libels on him, but perhaps by very reason
of their Whig partisanship, I should think it hard to be refused a pension purely because I
openly suffered for what I had earnestly said. I knew George the Fourth's physician, Sir William
Knighton, who had been mine before I was imprisoned (it was not he who was the royal agent
alluded to); and, if my memory does not deceive me, Sir William told me that George had been
gratified by the book above mentioned. Perhaps he had found out, by Sir William's help, that
I was not an ill-natured man, or one who could not outlive what was mistaken in himself or
resentful in others. As to my opinions about Governments, the bad conduct of the Allies, and
of Napoleon, and the old Bourbons, certainly made them waver as to what might be ultimately
best, monarchy or republicanism; but they ended in favour of their old predilections; and no
man, for a long while, has been less a republican than myself, monarchies and courts appearing
to me salutary for the good and graces of mankind, and Americanisms anything but either. But
nobody, I conceive, that knew my writings, or heard of me truly from others, ever took me for
a republican. William the Fourth saw or heard nothing of me to hinder his letting Lord Melbourne
give me £200 out of the Royal Fund. Queen Victoria gave me another, through the same kind friend.
She also went twice to see my play; and everybody knows how I praise and love her. I do not
think, therefore, in reference to the pension, that the public would care twopence about George
the Fourth, one way or the other; or that if any remembered the case at all, they would connect
the pension in the least with anything about him, but attribute it solely to the Queen's and
Minister's goodness, and the wants of a sincere and not undeserving man of letters, distinguished
for his loyal attachment. I certainly think the £500 fine ought not to have been taken out
of my pocket, or the other two £125 either; and I think also, that a liberal Whig minister
might reasonably and privately think some compensation on those accounts due to me. I have
been fighting his own fight from first to last, and helping to prepare matters for his triumph.
But still the above, in my opinion, is what the public would think of the matter, and my friends
of the press could lay it entirely to the literary account.

She is said to be an heiress, but of that I really know nothing certainly, and shall not inquire.
But I do know, that she has talents and excellent qualities; and you will not deny her judgement,
after having refused six suitors and taken me.

TO THE SAME

The cemetery at Bologna

Bologna, 7 June, 1819.

PS.

To PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY

A trio of poets

Ravenna, 26 April, 1821.

The child continues doing well, and the accounts are regular and favourable. It is gratifying
to me that you and Mrs. Shelley do not disapprove of the step which I have taken, which is
merely temporary. I read the review of Endymion in the Quarterly. It was severe,--but surely
not so severe as many reviews in that and other journals upon others. I grant that those are
not amiable feelings; but, in this world of bustle and broil, and especially in the career
of writing, a man should calculate upon his powers of resistance before he goes into the arena.

  Expect not life from pain nor danger free,
  Nor deem the doom of man reserved for thee.

You know my opinion of that second-hand school of poetry. You also know my high opinion of
your own poetry,--because it is of no school. I read Cenci--but, besides that I think the subject
essentially un dramatic, I am not an admirer of our old dramatists, as models. I deny that
the English have hitherto had a drama at all. Your Cenci, however, was a work of power, and
poetry. As to my drama, pray revenge yourself upon it, by being as free as I have been with yours.

I have not yet got your Prometheus, which I long to see. I have heard nothing of mine, and
do not know that it is yet published. I have published a pamphlet on the Pope controversy,
which you will not like.

You want me to undertake a great poem--I have not the inclination nor the power. As I grow
older, the indifference--not to life, for we love it by instinct--but to the stimuli of life,
increases. Besides, this late failure of the Italians has latterly disappointed me for many
reasons,--some public, some personal. My respects to Mrs. S.

PS. Could not you and I contrive to meet this summer? Could not you take a run here alone?

To MR. BARFF

Sympathy with the Greeks

10 March, 1824.

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY 1792-1822

To T.J. HOGG

His first marriage

[No date. Postmark, Rhayader.

Your inclosure of £10 has arrived; I am now indebted to you £30. In spite of philosophy, I
am rather ashamed of this unceremonious exsiccation of your financial river. But indeed, my
dear friend, the gratitude which I owe you for your society and attachment ought so far to
overbalance this consideration as to leave me nothing but that. I must, however, pay you when
I can.

I suspect that the strain is gone for ever. This letter will convince you that I am not under
the influence of a strain.

I am thinking at once of ten million things. I shall come to live near you, as Mr. Peyton.

Ever your most faithful friend.

I shall be at 18, Sackville Street; at least direct there. Do not send more cash; I shall raise
supplies in London.

To WILLIAM GODWIN

An introduction

Keswick, 3 Jan. 1812.

You will be surprised at hearing from a stranger. No introduction has, nor in all probability
ever will authorize that which common thinkers would call a liberty; it is, however, a liberty
which, although not sanctioned by custom, is so far from being reprobated by reason, that the
dearest interests of mankind imperiously demand that a certain etiquette of fashion should
no longer keep 'man at a distance from man', or impose its flimsy fancies between the free
communication of intellect.

I have but just entered on the scene of human operations; yet my feelings and my reasonings
correspond with what yours were. My course has been short, but eventful. I have seen much of
human prejudice, suffered much from human persecution, yet I see no reason hence inferable
which should alter my wishes for their renovation. The ill-treatment I have met with has more
than ever impressed the truth of my principles on my judgement. I am young, I am ardent in
the cause of philanthropy and truth; do not suppose that this is vanity; I am not conscious
that it influences this portraiture. I imagine myself dispassionately describing the state
of my mind. I am young; you have gone before me--I doubt not, are a veteran to me in the years
of persecution. Is it strange that, defying prejudice as I have done; I should outstep the
limits of custom's prescription, and endeavour to make my desire useful by a friendship with
William Godwin?

I pray you to answer this letter. Imperfect as may be my capacity, my desire is ardent and
unintermitted. Half an hour would be at least humanely employed in the experiment. I may mistake
your residence; certain feelings, of which I may be an inadequate arbiter, may induce you to
desire concealment; I may not, in fine, have an answer to this letter. If I do not, when I
come to London, I shall seek for you. I am convinced I could represent myself to you in such
terms as not to be thought wholly unworthy of your friendship; at least, if desire for universal
happiness has any claim upon your preference, that desire I can exhibit. Adieu! I shall earnestly
await your answer.

To THOMAS HOOKHAM

A subscription for Hunt

February 1813.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am boiling with indignation at the horrible injustice and tyranny of the sentence pronounced
on Hunt and his brother; and it is on this subject that I write to you. Surely the seal of
abjectness and slavery is indelibly stamped upon the character of England.

Although I do not retract in the slightest degree my wish for a subscription for the widows
and children of those poor men hung at York, yet this £1000 which the Hunts are sentenced to
pay is an affair of more consequence. Hunt is a brave, a good, and an enlightened man. Surely
the public, for whom Hunt has done so much, will repay in part the great debt of obligation
which they owe the champion of their liberties and virtues; or are they dead, cold, stone-hearted,
and insensible--brutalized by centuries of unremitting bondage? However that may be, they surely
may be excited into some slight acknowledgement of his merits. Whilst hundreds of thousands
are sent to the tyrants of Russia, he pines in a dungeon, far from all that can make life desired.

Well, I am rather poor at present; but I have £20 which is not immediately wanted. Pray, begin
a subscription for the Hunts; put down my name for that sum, and, when I hear that you have
complied with my request, I will send it you. Now, if there are any difficulties in the way
of this scheme of ours, for the love of liberty and virtue, overcome them. Oh! that I might
wallow for one night in the Bank of England!

Queen Mab is finished and transcribed. I am now preparing the notes, which shall be long and
philosophical. You will receive it with the other poems. I think that the whole should form
one volume; but of that we can speak hereafter.

As to the French Encyclopédie, it is a book which I am desirous--very desirous--of possessing,
and if you could get me a few months' credit (being at present rather low in cash), I should
very much desire to have it.

My dear sir, excuse the earnestness of the first part of my letter. I feel warmly on this subject,
and I flatter myself that so long as your own independence and liberty remain uncompromised,
you are inclined to second my desires.

PS. If no other way can be devised for this subscription, will you take the trouble on yourself
of writing an appropriate advertisement for the papers, inserting, by way of stimulant, my
subscription?

On second thoughts, I enclose the £20.

To MR. OLLIER

An article by Southey

Florence, 15 Oct. 1819.

DEAR SIR,

The droll remarks of the Quarterly, and Hunt's kind defence, arrived as safe as such poison,
and safer than such an antidote, usually do.

I am on the point of sending to you 250 copies of a work which I have printed in Italy; which
you will have to pay four or five pounds duty upon, on my account. Hunt will tell you the kind
of thing it is, and in the course of the winter I shall send directions for its publication,
until the arrival of which directions, I request that you would have the kindness not to open
the box, or, if by necessity it is opened, to abstain from observing yourself or permitting
others to observe, what it contains. I trust this confidently to you, it being of consequence.
Meanwhile, assure yourself that this work has no reference, direct or indirect, to politics,
or religion, or personal satire, and that this precaution is merely literary.

The Prometheus, a poem in my best style, whatever that may amount to, will arrive with it,
but in MS., which you can print and publish in the season. It is the most perfect of my productions.

Southey wrote the article in question, I am well aware. Observe the impudence of the man in
speaking of himself. The only remark worth notice in this piece is the assertion that I imitate
Wordsworth. It may as well be said that Lord Byron imitates Wordsworth, or that Wordsworth
imitates Lord Byron, both being great poets, and deriving from the new springs of thought and
feeling, which the great events of our age have exposed to view, a similar tone of sentiment,
imagery, and expression. A certain similarity all the best writers of any particular age inevitably
are marked with, from the spirit of that age acting on all. This I had explained in my Preface,
which the writer was too disingenuous to advert to. As to the other trash, and particularly
that lame attack on my personal character, which was meant so ill, and which I am not the man
to feel, 'tis all nothing. I am glad, with respect to that part of it which alludes to Hunt,
that it should so have happened that I dedicate, as you will see, a work which has all the
capacities for being popular to that excellent person. I was amused, too, with the finale;
it is like the end of the first act of an opera, when that tremendous concordant discord sets
up from the orchestra, and everybody talks and sings at once. It describes the result of my
battle with their Omnipotent God; his pulling me under the sea by the hair of my head, like
Pharaoh; my calling out like the devil who was game to the last; swearing and cursing in all
comic and horrid oaths, like a French postilion on Mount Cenis; entreating everybody to drown
themselves; pretending not to be drowned myself when I am drowned; and lastly, being drowned.

You would do me a particular kindness if you would call on Hunt, and ask him when my parcel
went, the name of the ship, and the name of the captain, and whether he has any bill of lading,
which, if he has, you would oblige me by sending, together with the rest of the information,
by return of post, addressed to the Post Office, Florence.

To MRS. HUNT

Keats and some others

[Pisa] 11 Nov. 1820.

MY BEST MARIANNE,

I am delighted to hear that you complain of me for not writing to you, although I have much
more reason to complain of you for not writing to me. At least it promises me a letter from
you, and you know with what pleasure we receive, and with what anxiety we expect intelligence
from you--almost the only friends who now remain to us.

I am afraid that the strict system of expense to which you are limited annoys you all very
much, and that Hunt's health suffers both from that and from the incredible exertions which
I see by the Indicators and the Examiners that he is making. Would to Heaven that I had the
power of doing you some good! but when you are sure that the wish is sincere, the bare expression
of it may help to cheer you.

The Gisbornes are arrived, and have brought news of you, and some books, the principal part
of which, however, are yet to arrive by sea. But of all these things nothing is worse than
----, in spite of Hunt's extracting the only good stanzas, with his usual good nature. Indeed,
I ought not to complain of Hunt's good nature, for no one owes so much to it. Is not the vulgarity
of these wretched imitations of Lord Byron carried to a pitch of the sublime? His indecencies,
too, both against sexual nature, and against human nature in general, sit very awkwardly upon
him. He only affects the libertine: he is, really, a very amiable, friendly, and agreeable
man, I hear. But is not this monstrous? In Lord Byron all this has an analogy with the general
system of his character, and the wit and poetry which surround hide with their light the darkness
of the thing itself. They contradict it even; they prove that the strength and beauty of human
nature can survive and conquer all that appears most inconsistent with it. But for a writer
to be at once filthy and dull is a crime against gods, men, and columns. For Heaven's sake
do not show this to any one but Hunt, for it would irritate the wasp's nest of the irritable
race of poets.

We are at this moment removing from the Bagni to Pisa, for the Serchio has broken its banks,
and all the country about is under water. An old friend and fellow-townsman of mine, Captain
Medwin, is on a visit to us at present, and we anxiously expect Keats, to whom I would write
if I knew where to address.

Adieu, my dear Marianne. Write soon; kiss all the babes for me, and tell me news of them, and
give my love to Bessy and Hunt. I know I need only ask.

I think I have never told you how very much I like your Amyntas; it almost reconciles me to
translations. In another sense I still demur. You might have written another such a poem as
the Nymphs, with no access of efforts. I am full of thoughts and plans, and should do something,
if the feeble and irritable frame which incloses it was willing to obey the spirit. I fancy
that then I should do great things. Certainly, if Marino Faliero is a drama, the Cenci is not--but
that between ourselves. Lord Byron is reformed, as far as gallantry goes, and lives with a
beautiful and sentimental Italian lady, who is as much attached to him as may be. I trust greatly
to his intercourse with you, for his creed to become as pure as he thinks his conduct is. He
has many generous and exalted qualities, but the canker of aristocracy wants to be cut out.

MY DEAR REYNOLDS,

... I am approaching Burns's cottage very fast. We have made continual inquiries from the time
we saw his tomb at Dumfries. His name, of course, is known all about: his great reputation
among the plodding people is, 'that he wrote a good mony sensible things'. One of the pleasantest
means of annulling self is approaching such a shrine as the Cottage of Burns: we need not think
of his misery--that is all gone, bad luck to it! I shall look upon it hereafter with unmixed
pleasure, as I do my Stratford-on-Avon day with Bailey. I shall fill this sheet for you in
the Bardie's country, going no further than this, till I get to the town of Ayr, which will
be a nine miles' walk to tea.

We were talking on different and indifferent things, when, on a sudden, we turned a corner
upon the immediate country of Ayr. The sight was as rich as possible. I had no conception that
the native place of Burns was so beautiful; the idea I had was more desolate: his 'Rigs of
Barley' seemed always to me but a few strips of green on a cold hill--Oh, prejudice!--It was
as rich as Devon. I endeavoured to drink in the prospect, that I might spin it out to you,
as the silkworm makes silk from mulberry leaves. I cannot recollect it. Besides all the beauty,
there were the mountains of Arran Isle, black and huge over the sea. We came down upon everything
suddenly; there were in our way the 'bonny Doon', with the brig that Tam o' Shanter crossed,
Kirk Alloway, Burns's Cottage, and then the Brigs of Ayr. First we stood upon the Bridge across
the Doon, surrounded by every phantasy of green in tree, meadow, and hill: the stream of the
Doon, as a farmer told us, is covered with trees 'from head to foot'. You know those beautiful
heaths, so fresh against the weather of a summer's evening; there was one stretching along
behind the trees.

I wish I knew always the humour my friends would be in at opening a letter of mine, to suit
it to them as nearly as possible. I could always find an egg-shell for melancholy, and, as
for merriment, a witty humour will turn anything to account. My head is sometimes in such a
whirl in considering the million likings and antipathies of our moments, that I can get into
no settled strain in my letters. My wig! Burns and sentimentality coming across you and Frank
Floodgate in the office. Oh, Scenery, that thou shouldst be crushed between two puns! As for
them, I venture the rascalliest in the Scotch region. I hope Brown does not put them in his
journal: if he does, I must sit on the cutty-stool all next winter. We went to Kirk Alloway.
'A prophet is no prophet in his own country.' We went to the Cottage and took some whisky.
I wrote a sonnet for the mere sake of writing some lines under the roof: they are so bad I
cannot transcribe them. The man at the cottage was a great bore with his anecdotes. I hate
the rascal. His life consists in fuzy, fuzzy, fuzziest. He drinks glasses, five for the quarter,
and twelve for the hour; he is a mahogany-faced old jackass who knew Burns: he ought to have
been kicked for having spoken to him. He calls himself 'a curious old bitch', but he is a flat
old dog. I should like to employ Caliph Vathek to kick him. Oh, the flummery of a birthplace!
Cant! cant! cant! It is enough to give a spirit the guts-ache. Many a true word, they say,
is spoken in jest--this may be because his gab hindered my sublimity: the flat dog made me
write a flat sonnet. My dear Reynolds, I cannot write about scenery and visitings. Fancy is
indeed less than a present palpable reality, but it is greater than remembrance. You would
lift your eyes from Homer only to see close before you the real Isle of Tenedos. You would
rather read Homer afterwards than remember yourself. One song of Burns's is of more worth to
you than all I could think for a whole year in his native country. His misery is a dead weight
upon the nimbleness of one's quill; I tried to forget it--to drink toddy without any care--to
write a merry sonnet--it won't do--he talked, he drank with blackguards; he was miserable.
We can see horribly clear, in the works of such a man, his whole life, as if we were God's
spies....

TO RICHARD WOODHOUSE

The poetic character

Hampstead, 27 Oct. 1818.

MY DEAR WOODHOUSE,

Your letter gave me great satisfaction, more on account of its friendliness than any relish
of that matter in it which is accounted so acceptable in the genus irritabile. The best answer
I can give you is in a clerklike manner to make some observations on two principal points which
seem to point like indices into the midst of the whole pro and con about genius, and views,
and achievements, and ambition, et coetera. 1st. I know not whether I make myself wholly understood:
I hope enough so to let you see that no dependence is to be placed on what I said that day.

In the second place, I will speak of my views, and of the life I purpose to myself. I am ambitious
of doing the world some good: if I should be spared, that may be the work of maturer years--in
the interval I will assay to reach to as high a summit in poetry as the nerve bestowed upon
me will suffer. The faint conceptions I have of poems to come bring the blood frequently into
my forehead. All I hope is, that I may not lose all interest in human affairs--that the solitary
indifference I feel for applause, even from the finest spirits, will not blunt any acuteness
of vision I may have. I do not think it will. I am returning advice upon your hands. The fresh
air revived me a little, and I hope I am well enough this morning to write to you a short calm
letter;--if that can be called one, in which I am afraid to speak of what I would fainest dwell
upon. As I have gone thus far into it, I must go on a little;--perhaps it may relieve the load
of wretchedness which presses upon me. When you write to me, which you will do immediately,
write to Rome (poste restante)--if she is well and happy, put a mark thus +; if--

Remember me to all. I will endeavour to bear my miseries patiently. A person in my state of
health should not have such miseries to bear. Write a short note to my sister, saying you have
heard from me. Severn is very well. If I were in better health I would urge your coming to
Rome. I fear there is no one can give me any comfort. Is there any news of George? O that something
fortunate had ever happened to me or my brothers!--then I might hope,--but despair is forced
upon me as a habit. My dear Brown, for my sake, be her advocate for ever. I cannot say a word
about Naples; I do not feel at all concerned in the thousand novelties around me. I am afraid
to write to her. I should like her to know that I do not forget her. Oh, Brown, I have coals
of fire in my breast. It surprises me that the human heart is capable of containing and bearing
so much misery. Was I born for this end?

DEAR DICKENS,

Can you let me have an early copy of the American Notes so that I may review it in the New
Monthly? Is it really likely to be ready as advertised? I aim this at Devonshire Place, supposing
you to be returned, for with these winds 'tis no fit time for the coast. But your bones are
not so weather unwise (for ignorance is bliss) as mine. I should have asked this by word of
mouth in Devonshire Place, but the weather has kept me indoors. It is no fiction that the complaint,
derived from Dutch malaria seven years ago, is revived by Easterly winds. Otherwise I have
been better than usual, and 'never say die'. Don't forget about the Yankee Notes. I never had
but one American friend, and lost him through a good crop of pears. He paid us a visit in England;
whereupon in honour of him, a pear tree, which had never borne fruit to speak of within memory
of man, was loaded with ninety dozen of brown somethings. Our gardener said they were a keeping
sort, and would be good at Christmas; whereupon, as our Jonathan was on the eve of sailing
for the States, we sent him a few dozens to dessert him on the voyage. Some he put at the bottom
of a trunk (he wrote to us) to take to America; but he could not have been gone above a day
or two, when all our pears began to rot! His would, of course, by sympathy, and I presume spoilt
his linen or clothes, for I have never heard of him since. Perhaps he thought I had done him
on purpose, and for sartin the tree, my accomplice, never bore any more pears, good or bad,
after that supernatural crop.

Pray present my respects for me to Mrs. Dickens. How she must enjoy being at home and discovering
her children, after her Columbusing, and only discovering America!

TO THE MANCHESTER ATHENAEUM

The uses of literature

(From my bed)

17 Elm Tree Road, St. John's Wood, 18 July, 1843.

GENTLEMEN,

If my humble name can be of the least use for your purpose, it is heartily at your service,
with my best wishes for the prosperity of the Manchester Athenaeum, and my warmest approval
of the objects of that Institution.

I have elsewhere recorded my own deep obligations to Literature--that a natural turn for reading,
and intellectual pursuits, probably preserved me from the moral shipwreck so apt to befall
those who are deprived in early life of the paternal pilotage. At the very least my books kept
me aloof from the ring, the dog-pit, the tavern, and the saloons, with their degrading orgies.
The reading animal will not be content with the brutish wallowings that satisfy the unlearned
pigs of the world. Later experience enables me to depose to the comfort and blessing that literature
can prove in seasons of sickness and sorrow; how powerfully intellectual pursuits can help
in keeping the head from crazing, and the heart from breaking; nay, not to be too grave, how
generous mental food can even atone for a meagre diet; rich fare on the paper, for short commons
on the cloth.

Poisoned by the malaria of the Dutch marshes, my stomach for many months resolutely set itself
against fish, flesh, or fowl; my appetite had no more edge than the German knife placed before
me. But luckily the mental palate and digestion were still sensible and vigorous; and whilst
I passed untasted every dish at the Rhenish table-d'-hôte, I could still enjoy my Peregrine
Pickle, and the feast after the manner of the Ancients. There was no yearning towards calf's
head à la tortue, or sheep's heart; but I could still relish Head à la Brunnen, and the Heart
of Mid-Lothian. Still more recently it was my misfortune, with a tolerable appetite, to be
condemned to Lenten fare, like Sancho Panza, by my physician, to a diet, in fact, lower than
any prescribed by the Poor-Law Commissioners, all animal food, from a bullock to a rabbit,
being strictly interdicted, as well as all fluids stronger than that which lays dust, washes
pinafores, and waters polyanthus. But the feast of reason and the flow of soul were still mine!

Denied beef, I had Bulwer and Cowper; forbidden mutton, there was Lamb; and in lieu of pork,
the great Bacon, or Hogg. Then as to beverage; it was hard, doubtless, for a Christian to set
his face, like a Turk, against the juice of the grape. But, eschewing wine, I had still my
Butler; and in the absence of liquor, all the Choice Spirits from Tom Browne to Tom Moore.
Thus though confined physically to the drink that drowns kittens, I quaffed mentally, not merely
the best of our own home-made, but the rich, racy, sparkling growths of France and Italy, of
Germany and Spain; the champagne of Molière, the Monte Pulciano of Boccaccio, the hock of Schiller,
and the sherry of Cervantes. Depressed bodily by the fluid that damps everything, I got intellectually
elevated with Milton, a little merry with Swift, or rather jolly with Rabelais, whose Pantagruel,
by the way, is equal to the best gruel with rum in it.

So far can Literature palliate, or compensate, for gastronomical privations. But there are
other evils, great and small, in this world, which try the stomach less than the head, the
heart, and the temper; bowls that will not roll right, well-laid schemes that will 'gang aglee',
and ill winds that blow with the pertinacity of the monsoon. Of these Providence has allotted
me a full share, but still, paradoxical as it may sound, my burthen has been greatly lightened
by a load of books. The manner of this will be best understood by a feline illustration. Everybody
has heard of the two Kilkenny cats, who devoured each other; but it is not so generally known,
that they left behind them an orphan kitten, which, true to its breed, began to eat itself
up, till it was diverted from the operation by a mouse. Now the human mind, under vexation,
is like that kitten, for it is apt to prey upon itself, unless drawn off by a new object, and
none better for the purpose than a book. For example, one of Defoe's; for who, in reading his
thrilling History of the Great Plague, would not be reconciled to a few little ones?

Many, many a dreary weary hour have I got over--many a gloomy misgiving postponed--many a mental
and bodily annoyance forgotten by help of the tragedies, and comedies, of our dramatists and
novelists! Many a trouble has been soothed by the still small voice of the moral philosopher;
many a dragon-like care charmed to sleep by the sweet song of the poet! For all which I cry
incessantly, not aloud, but in my heart, 'Thanks and honour to the glorious masters of the
pen, and the great inventors of the press!' Such has been my own experience of the blessing
and comfort of literature and intellectual pursuits; and of the same mind, doubtless, was Sir
Humphry Davy, who went for Consolations in Travel, not to the inn, or the posting-house, but
to his library and his books.

To DR. MOIR

A humourist to the last

[1845.]

DEAR MOIR,

God bless you and yours, and good-bye! I drop these few lines, as in a bottle from a ship water-logged,
and on the brink of foundering, being in the last stage of dropsical debility; but though suffering
in body, serene in mind. So without reversing my union-jack, I await my last lurch. Till which,
believe me, dear Moir,

Yours most truly.

To SIR ROBERT PEEL

A farewell letter

Devonshire Lodge, New Finchley Road, [1845].

DEAR SIR,

We are not to meet in the flesh. Given over by my physicians and by myself, I am only kept
alive by frequent instalments of mulled port wine. In this extremity I feel a comfort, for
which I cannot refrain from again thanking you, with all the sincerity of a dying man,--and,
at the same time, bidding you a respectful farewell.

Thank God my mind is composed and my reason undisturbed, but my race as an author is run. My
physical debility finds no tonic virtue in a steel pen, otherwise I would have written one
more paper--a forewarning one--against an evil, or the danger of it, arising from a literary
movement in which I have had some share, a one-sided humanity, opposite to that Catholic Shakespearian
sympathy, which felt with King as well as Peasant, and duly estimated the mortal temptations
of both stations. Certain classes at the poles of Society are already too far asunder; it should
be the duty of our writers to draw them nearer by kindly attraction, not to aggravate the existing
repulsion, and place a wider moral gulf between Rich and Poor, with Hate on the one side and
Fear on the other. But I am too weak for this task, the last I had set myself; it is death
that stops my pen, you see, and not the pension.

God bless you, Sir, and prosper all your measures for the benefit of my beloved country.

DEAR LEIGH HUNT,

(It is hard to write, but you bade me do so; yet I had better say 'Master Hunt', as they used
to call Webster or Ford.) A nine months' silence after such a letter as yours seems too strange
even to you perhaps. So understand that you gave us more delight at once than we could bear,
that was the beginning of the waiting to recover spirit and try and do one's feeling a little
less injustice. But soon followed unexpected sorrows to us and to you, and the expression of
even gratitude grew hard again. Certainly all this while your letter has been laid before our
very eyes, and we have waited for a brighter day than ever came till we left Florence two months
ago and more, then we brought it to 'answer' among the chestnut trees; but immediately on our
arrival a friend was attacked by fever, and we were kept in anxiety about him for six weeks.
At last he recovered sufficiently to leave for Florence, and (just think) our little boy became
ill, for the first time in his life, and gave us solicitude enough for a fortnight: it is nothing
now that it is over; he is going about now almost as well as before, and we go away to-morrow,
as I said. But I will try and get one, at least, of the joys I came to find here, and really
write to you from this place, as I meant to do. 'I'--you know it is my wife that I write for,
though you entangle and distract either of us by the reverberations (so to speak) of pleasures
over and above the pleasure you give us. I intend to say, that you praise that poem, and mix
it up with praise of her very self, and then give it to me directly, and then give it to her
with the pride you have just given me, and then it somehow comes back to me increased so far,
till the effect is just as you probably intended. I wish my wife may know you more: I wish
you may see and know her more, but you cannot live by her eleven years, as I have done--or
yes, what cannot you do, being the man, the poet you are? This last word, I dare think, I have
a right to say; I have always venerated you as a poet; I believe your poetry to be sure of
its eventual reward; other people, not unlikely, may feel like me, that there has been no need
of getting into feverish haste to cry out on what is; yet you, who wrote it, can leave it and
look at other poetry, and speak so of it: how well of you!

I am still too near the production of Aurora Leigh to be quite able to see it all; my wife
used to write it, and lay it down to hear our child spell, or when a visitor came,--it was
thrust under the cushion then. At Paris, a year ago last March, she gave me the first six books
to read, I having never seen a line before. She then wrote the rest, and transcribed them in
London, where I read them also. I wish, in one sense, that I had written and she had read it....
I shall commend myself to you by telling you this. Indeed, the proper acknowledgement of your
letter seems to be that one should do something, not say something. If you were here, I might
quite naturally begin repeating Giaffar or Solomon, and the rest. You would see whether I was
not capable of getting all the good out of your praise.

While I write, there is a strange thing that happened last night impossible to get out of my
thoughts. It may give you pain to tell you of it, yet if with the pain come triumphant memories
and hopes, as I expect there will, you may choose the pain with them. What decides me to tell
it is that I heard you years ago allude to the destruction of a volume of Lamia, Isabella,
&c., to be restored to you yet--now you remember; also, I think, of your putting my name near
Shelley's in the end of your letter, where you say 'since I lost Shelley'. Is it not strange
that I should have transcribed for the first time, last night, the Indian Serenade that, together
with some verses of Metastasio, accompanied that book? That I should have been reserved to
tell the present possessor of them--to whom they were given by Captain Roberts--what the poem
was, and that it had been published! It is preserved religiously; but the characters are all
but illegible, and I needed a good magnifying-glass to be quite sure of such of them as remain.
The end is that I have rescued three or four variations in the reading of that divine little
poem, as one reads it, at least, in the Posthumous Poems. It is headed the Indian Serenade
(not Lines to an Indian Air). In the first stanza the seventh line is 'Hath led me'; in the
second, the third line is 'And the champak's odours fail'; and the eighth, 'O! Beloved as thou
art!' In the last stanza, the seventh line was, 'Oh, press it to thine own again.' Are not
all these better readings? (even to the 'Hath' for 'Has'.) There, I give them you as you gave
us Milton's hair. If I have mistaken in telling you, you will understand and forgive.

I think I will ask my wife to say a word or two so I shall be sure that you forgive. Now let
my wife say the remainder. All I have wished to do--know how little likely it was that I should
succeed in that--was to assure you of my pride and affectionate gratitude.--God bless you ever,

R.B.

Dear friend, I will say; for I feel it must be something as good as friendship that can forgive
and understand this silence, so much like the veriest human kind of ingratitude. When I look
back and think--all this time after that letter, and not a sign made--I wonder. Yet, if you
knew! First of all, we were silent because we waited for information which you seemed to desire....
Then there were sadder reasons. Poor Aurora, that you were so more than kind to (oh, how can
I think of it?), has been steeped in tears, and some of them of a very bitter sort. Your letter
was addressed to my husband, you knowing by your delicate true instinct where your praise would
give most pleasure; but I believe Robert had not the heart to write when I felt that I should
not have the spirits to add a word in the proper key. When we came here from Florence a few
months ago to get repose and cheerfulness from the sight of the mountains, we said to ourselves
that we would speak to you at ease--instead of which the word was taken from our own mouth,
and we have done little but sit by sick beds and meditate on gastric fevers. So disturbed we
have been--so sad! our darling precious child the last victim. To see him lying still on his
golden curls, with cheeks too scarlet to suit the poor patient eyes, looking so frightfully
like an angel! It was very hard. But this is over, I do thank God, and we are on the point
of carrying back our treasure with us to Florence to-morrow, quite recovered, if a little thinner
and weaker, and the young voice as merry as ever. You are aware that that child I am more proud
of than twenty Auroras, even after Leigh Hunt has praised them. He is eight years old, has
never been 'crammed', but reads English, Italian, French, German, and plays the piano--then,
is the sweetest child! sweeter than he looks. When he was ill, he said to me, 'You pet! don't
be unhappy about me. Think it's a boy in the street, and be a little sorry, but not unhappy.'
Who could not be unhappy, I wonder?

I never saw your book called the Religion of the Heart. It's the only book of yours I never
saw, and I mean to wipe out that reproach on the soonest day possible. I receive more dogmas,
perhaps (my 'perhaps' being in the dark rather), than you do. I believe in the divinity of
Jesus Christ in the intensest sense--that he was God absolutely. But for the rest, I am very
unorthodox--about the spirit, the flesh, and the devil, and if you would not let me sit by
you, a great many churchmen wouldn't; in fact, churches do all of them, as at present constituted,
seem too narrow and low to hold true Christianity in its proximate developments. I, at least,
cannot help believing them so.

My dear friend, can we dare, after our sins against you--can we dare wish for a letter from
you sometimes? Ask, we dare not. May God bless you. Even if you had not praised me and made
me so grateful, I should be grateful to you for three things--for your poetry (that first),
then for Milton's hair, and then for the memory I have of our visit to you, when you sat in
that chair and spoke so mildly and deeply at once.

Let me be ever affectionately yours,

ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING. Thank you once more; and believe me--&c.

TO THE SAME

'Esmond' again

10 Nov. 1852.

