Yet one is tempted by the effective contrast to put against that clean and beautiful child
some vivid presentation of the average thing, to sketch in a few simple lines the mean and
graceless creature of our modern life, his ill-made clothes, his clumsy, half-fearful, half-
brutal bearing, his coarse defective speech, his dreary unintelligent work, his shabby, impossible,
bathless, artless, comfortless home; one is provoked to suggest him in some phase of typical
activity, "enjoying himself" on a Bank Holiday, or rejoicing, peacock feather in hand, hat
askew, and voice completely gone, on some occasion of public festivity --on the defeat of a
numerically inferior enemy for example, or the decision of some great international issue at
baseball or cricket. This, one would say, we have made out of that, and so point the New Republican
question, "Cannot we do better?" But the thing has been done so often without ever the breath
of a remedy. Our business is with remedies. We mean to do better, we live to do better, and
with no more than a glance at our present failures we will set ourselves to that.

To do better we must begin with a careful analysis of the process of this man's making, of
the great complex of circumstances which mould the vague possibilities of the average child
into the reality of the citizen of the modern state.

We may begin upon this complex most hopefully by picking out a few of the conspicuous and typical
elements and using them as a basis for an exhaustive classification. To begin with, of course,
there is the home. For our present purpose it will be convenient to use "home" as a general
expression for that limited group of human beings who share the board and lodging of the growing
imperial citizen, and whose personalities are in constant, close contact with his until he
reaches fifteen or sixteen. Typically, the chief figures of this group are mother, brothers
and sisters, and father, to which are often added nursemaid, governess, and other servants.
Beyond these are playmates again. Beyond these acquaintances figure. Home has indeed nowadays,
in our world, no very definite boundaries--no such boundaries as it has, for example, on the
veldt. In the case of a growing number of English upper middle-class children, moreover, and
of the children of a growing element in the life of the eastern United States, the home functions
are delegated in a very large degree to the preparatory school. It is a distinction that needs
to be emphasized that many so-called schools are really homes, often very excellent homes,
with which schools, often very inefficient schools, are united. All this we must lump together--
it is, indeed, woven together almost inextricably--when we speak of home as a formative factor.
The home, so far as its hygienic conditions go, we have already dealt with, and we have dealt,
too, with the great neglected necessity, the absolute necessity if our peoples are to keep
together, of making and keeping the language of the home uniform throughout our world-wide
community. Purely intellectual development beyond the matter of language we may leave for a
space. There remains the distinctive mental and moral function of the home, the determination
by precept, example, and implication of the cardinal habits of the developing citizen, his
general demeanour, his fundamental beliefs about all the common and essential things of life.

This group of people, who constitute the home, will be in constant reaction upon him. If as
a whole they bear themselves with grace and serenity, say and do kindly things, control rage,
and occupy themselves constantly, they will do much to impose these qualities upon the new-
comer. If they quarrel one with another, behave coarsely and spitefully, loiter and lounge
abundantly, these things will also stamp the child. A raging father, a scared deceitful mother,
vulgarly acting, vulgarly thinking friends, all leave an almost indelible impress. Precept
may play a part in the home, but it is a small part, unless it is endorsed by conduct. What
these people do, on the whole, believe in and act upon, the child will tend to believe in and
act upon; what they believe they believe, but do not act upon, the child will acquire also
as a non-operative belief; their practices, habits, and prejudices will be enormously prepotent
in his life. If, for example, the parent talks constantly of the contemptible dirtiness of
Boers and foreigners, and of the extreme beauty of cleanliness and--even obviously--rarely
washes, the child will grow to the same professions and the same practical denial. This home
circle it is that will describe what, in modified Herbartian phraseology, one may call the
child's initial circle of thought; it is a circle many things will subsequently enlarge and
modify, but of which they have the centering at least and the establishment of the radial trends,
almost beyond redemption. The effect of home influence, indeed, constitutes with most of us
a sort of secondary heredity, interweaving with, and sometimes almost indistinguishable from,
the real unalterable primary heredity, a moral shaping by suggestion, example, and influence,
that is a sort of spiritual parallel to physical procreation.

It is not simply personalities that are operative in the home influence. There is also the
implications of the various relations between one member of the home circle and another. I
am inclined to think that the social conceptions, for example, that are accepted in a child's
home world are very rarely shaken in afterlife. People who have been brought up in households
where there is an organized under-world of servants are incurably different in their social
outlook from those who have passed a servantless childhood. They never quite emancipate themselves
from the conception of an essential class difference, of a class of beings inferior to themselves.
They may theorise about equality--but theory is not belief. They will do a hundred things to
servants that between equals would be, for various reasons, impossible. The Englishwoman and
the Anglicised American woman of the more pretentious classes honestly regards a servant as
physically, morally, and intellectually different from herself, capable of things that would
be incredibly arduous to a lady, capable of things that would be incredibly disgraceful, under
obligations of conduct no lady observes, incapable of the refinement to which every lady pretends.
It is one of the most amazing aspects of contemporary life, to converse with some smart, affected,
profoundly uneducated, flirtatious woman about her housemaid's followers. There is such an
identity; there is such an abyss. But at present that contrast is not our concern. Our concern
at present is with the fact that the social constitution of the home almost invariably shapes
the fundamental social conceptions for life, just as its average temperament shapes manners
and bearing and its moral tone begets moral predisposition. If the average sensual man of our
civilization is noisy and undignified in his bearing, disposed to insult and despise those
he believes to be his social inferiors, competitive and disobliging to his equals; abject,
servile, and dishonest to those he regards as his betters; if his wife is a silly, shallow,
gossiping spendthrift, unfit to rear the children she occasionally bears, perpetually snubbing
social inferiors and perpetually cringing to social superiors, it is probable that we have
to blame the home, not particularly any specific class of homes, but our general home atmosphere,
for the great part of these characteristics. If we would make the average man of the coming
years gentler in manner, more deliberate in judgment, steadier in purpose, upright, considerate,
and free, we must look first to the possibility of improving the tone and quality of the average
home.

Now the substance and constitution of the home, the relations and order of its various members,
have been, and are, traditional. But it is a tradition that has always been capable of modification
in each generation. In the unlettered, untravelling past, the factor of tradition was altogether
dominant. Sons and daughters married and set up homes, morally, intellectually, economically,
like those of their parents. Over great areas homogeneous traditions held, and it needed wars
and conquests, or it needed missionaries and persecutors and conflicts, or it needed many generations
of intercourse and filtration before a new tradition could replace or graft itself upon the
old. But in the past hundred years or so the home conditions of the children of our English-speaking
population have shown a disposition to break from tradition under influences that are increasing,
and to become much more heterogeneous than were any home conditions before. The ways in which
these modifications of the old home tradition have arisen will indicate the means and methods
by which further modifications may be expected and attempted in the future.

Modification has come to the average home tradition through two distinct, though no doubt finally
interdependent channels. The first of these channels is the channel of changing economic necessities,
using the phrase to cover everything from domestic conveniences at the one extreme to the financial
foundation of the home at the other, and the next is the influx of new systems of thought,
of feeling, and of interpretation about the general issues of life.

There are in Great Britain three main interdependent systems of home tradition undergoing modification
and readjustment. They date from the days before mechanism and science began their revolutionary
intervention in human affairs, and they derive from the three main classes of the old aristocratic,
agricultural, and trading state, namely, the aristocratic, the middle, and the labour class.
There are local, there are even racial modifications, there are minor classes and subspecies,
but the rough triple classification will serve. In America the dominant home tradition is that
of the transplanted English middle class. The English aristocratic tradition has flourished
and faded in the Southern States; the British servile and peasant tradition has never found
any growth in America, and has, in the persons of the Irish chiefly, been imported in an imperfect
condition, only to fade. The various home traditions of the nineteenth century immigrants have
either, if widely different, succumbed, or if not very different assimilated themselves to
the ruling tradition. The most marked non- British influence has been the intermixture of Teutonic
Protestantism. In both countries now the old home traditions have been and are being adjusted
to and modified by the new classes, with new relationships and new necessities, that the revolution
in industrial organization and domestic conveniences has created.

The interplay of old tradition and new necessities becomes at times very curious. Consider,
for example, the home influences of the child of a shopman in a large store, or those of the
child of a skilled operative--an engineer of some sort let us say--in England. Both these are
new types in the English social body; the former derives from the old middle class, the class
that was shopkeeping in the towns and farming in the country, the class of the Puritans, the
Quakers, the first manufacturers, the class whose mentally active members become the dissenters,
the old Liberals, and the original New Englanders. The growth of large businesses has raised
a portion of this class to the position of Sir John Blundell Maple, Sir Thomas Lipton, the
intimate friend of our King, and our brewer peers; it has raised a rather more numerous section
to the red plush glories of Wagon-Lit trains and their social and domestic equivalents, and
it has reduced the bulk of the class to the status of employees for life. But the tradition
that our English shopman is in the same class as his master, that he has been apprentice and
improver, and is now assistant, with a view to presently being a master himself, still throws
its glamour over his life and his home, and his child's upbringing. They belong to the middle
class, the black coat and silk-hat class, and the silk hat crowns the adolescence of their
boys as inevitably as the toga made men in ancient Rome. Their house is built, not for convenience
primarily, but to realize whatever convenience is possible after the rigid traditional requirements
have been met; it is the extreme and final reduction of the plan of a better class house, and
the very type of its owner. As one sees it in the London suburbs devoted to clerks and shopmen,
it stands back a yard or so from the road, with a gate and a railing, and a patch, perhaps
two feet wide, of gravel between its front and the pavement. This is the last pathetic vestige
of the preliminary privacies of its original type, the gates, the drive-up, the front lawn,
the shady trees, that gave a great impressive margin to the door. The door has a knocker (with
an appeal to realities, "ring also") and it opens into a narrow passage, perhaps four feet
wide, which still retains the title of "hall." Oak staining on the woodwork and marbled paper
accentuate the lordly memory. People of this class would rather die than live in a house with
a front door, even had it a draught-stopping inner door, that gave upon the street. Instead
of an ample kitchen in which meals can be taken and one other room in which the rest of life
goes on, these two covering the house site, the social distinction from the servant invades
the house space first by necessitating a passage to a side-door, and secondly by cutting up
the interior into a "dining-room" and a "drawing-room." Economy of fuel throughout the winter
and economy of the best furniture always, keeps the family in the dining-room pretty constantly,
but there you have the drawing-room as a concrete fact. Though the drawing-room is inevitable,
the family will manage without a bath-room well enough. They may, or they may not, occasionally
wash all over. There are probably not fifty books in the house, but a daily paper comes and
Tit Bits or Pearson's Weekly, or, perhaps, M.A.P., Modern Society, or some such illuminant
of the upper circles, and a cheap fashion paper, appear at irregular intervals to supplement
this literature.

