We will now leave Albert and his fellow travelers, and follow good Gideon Randal.

It was quite dark when he stepped from the cars, and he inquired of a man at the station, "Can
you tell me where I can find Mr. Aaron Harrington?"

"There's no such man living here, to my knowledge," was the reply.

"What, isn't this Harrowtown?" asked Mr. Randal in great consternation.

"No, it is Whipple Village."

"Then I got out at the wrong station. What shall I do?" in a voice of deep distress.

"Go right to the hotel and stay till the train goes in the morning," said the man, pleasantly.

There was no alternative, Mr. Randal passed a restless night at the hotel, and at an early
hour he was again at the station, waiting for the train. His face was pale, and his eye wild
and anxious. "The stage broke down, and I missed the first train," thought he, "and then that
boy told me to get out here. I've made a bad beginning, and I'm afraid this trip will have
a bad ending."

There were other passengers walking to and fro on the platform, waiting for the cars to come.

One was a plain-featured, honest-looking boy, who had been accompanied to the station by his
mother. Just before his mother bade him good by, she said, "Lyman, look at that pale, sad,
old man. I don't believe he is used to traveling. Perhaps you can help him along."

Soon a loud, prolonged whistle was heard. The cars were coming.

"Allow me to assist you, sir," said Lyman Dean to Mr. Randal, as the train stopped; and he
took hold of his arm, and guided him into a car to a seat.

"Thank you, my boy. I'm getting old and clumsy, and a little help from a young hand comes timely.
Where are you going, if I may ask?"

"To Harrowtown, sir. I saw an advertisement for a boy in a store, and I'm going to try to get
the situation. My name is Lyman Dean."

"Ah? I'm sure I wish you success, Lyman, for I believe you're a good boy. You are going to
the same place I am. I want to find Aaron Harrington, but I've had two mishaps. I don't know
what's coming next."

"I'll show you right where his office is. I've been in Harrowtown a good many times."

Half an hour later, the brakeman shouted the name of the station where they must stop. Lyman
assisted Mr. Randal off the train, and walked with him to the principal street. "Here's Mr
Harrington's office," said he.

"Oh, yes, thank you kindly. And now could you tell me where Mr. Luke Conway's place of business
is?"

"Why, that's the very gentleman I'm going to see," said Lyman. "His place is just round the
corner, only two blocks off."

Mr. Randal looked deeply interested. He turned and shook the boy's hand warmly. "Lyman," he
said, "Mr. Conway knows me. I am coming to see him by and by. I am really obliged to you for
your politeness, and wish I could do something for you. I hope Mr. Conway will give you the
situation, for you deserve it. If you apply before I get there, tell him Gideon Randal is your
friend. Good by."

Fifteen minutes after found Lyman waiting in the counting-room of Luke Conway's store. Albert
Gregory had just preceded him. The merchant was writing, and he had requested the boys to be
seated a short time, till he was at leisure. Before he finished his work, a slow, feeble step
was heard approaching, and an old man stood in the doorway.

"Luke, don't you remember me?" The merchant looked up at the sound of the voice. Then he sprang
up from his chair and grasped the old man's hands in both his own. "Mr. Randal! Welcome, a
thousand times welcome, my benefactor!" he exclaimed. And seating his guest on the office lounge
beside him, Mr. Conway inquired after his health and comfort, and talked with him as a loving
son. It was evident to the quick perception of the merchant that the good old man's circumstances
had changed, and he soon made it easy for him to unburden his mind.

"Yes, Luke, I am in trouble. Aaron Harrington owns a mortgage on my farm, and I can't pay him,
and he threatens to take my home," said Mr. Randal, with a quivering lip. "I went to his office,
but didn't find him, and I thought may be you'd advise me what to do."

"Mr. Randal," answered the merchant, laying his hand on the old man's shoulder, "almost thirty
years ago when I was cold, and hungry, and friendless, you took me in and fed me. Your good
wife--God bless her!--made me a suit of clothes with her own hands. You found me work, and
you gave me money when I begun the world alone. Much if not all that I am in life I owe to
your sympathy and help, my kind old friend. Now I am rich, and you must let me cancel my debt.
I shall pay your mortgage to-day. You shall have your home free again."

Mr. Randal wiped great hot tears from his cheeks, and said in a husky voice, "It is just as
I told Martha. I knew if we lent our money to the Lord, when a dark day came, he would provide."

The reader can imagine the different feelings of the two boys, as they sat witnesses of the
scene. The look of derision, that changed to an expression of sickly dismay, on Albert's face,
when the old man came in and was so warmly greeted by the merchant, was curiously suggestive.
But his usual assurance soon returned. He thought it unlikely that Mr. Randal would recognize
him in the daylight, and he determined to put on a bold front.

For a minute the two men continued in conversation. Mr. Conway called up pleasant reminiscences
of "Aunt Martha," his boy-life on the farm, and the peace and stillness of the country town.
He thought a railway ride of a hundred miles must be a hardship for a quiet old man. "It was
a long way for you," he said, "Did you have a comfortable journey?"

"Well, I can't quite say that. First, the stage broke down and delayed me. Then I slept in
the cars, and a boy played a trick on me, and waked me up, and made me get out at the wrong
station, so I had to stay over night in Whipple Village. To tell the truth I had a good deal
of worriment with one thing and another, getting here; but it's all bright now," he added with
a radiant face.

"You shall go with me to my house and rest, as soon as I have dismissed these boys," said Mr.
Conway, earnestly; and turning to Albert and Lyman, who anxiously waited, he spoke to them
about their errand.

"I suppose you came because you saw my advertisement?"

"Yes, sir," replied both, simultaneously.

"Very well. I believe you came in first. What is your name?"

"I am Albert Gregory, sir. I think I can suit you. I've brought testimonials of ability and
character from some of the first men--Esquire Jenkins, Rev. Joseph Lee, Dr. Henshaw, and others.
Here are my letters of recommendation," holding them out for Mr. Conway to take.

"I don't want to see them," returned the merchant, coldly. "I have seen you before, I understand
your character well enough for the present."

He then addressed a few words to Lyman Dean.

"I should be very glad of work," said Lyman. "My mother is poor, and I want to earn my living,
but I hav'n't any testimonials."

"Yes, you have," said old Mr. Randal, who was waiting for an opportunity to say that very thing.
And then he told the merchant how polite and helpful Lyman had been to him.

Mr. Conway fixed his eyes severely upon the other boy. The contrast between him and young Dean
was certainly worth a lesson.

"Albert Gregory," said the merchant, "I occupied the seat in the car in front of you last evening.
I heard you exulting and wickedly boasting how you had deceived a distressed old man. Mr. Randal,
is this the boy who lied to you, and caused you to get out at the wrong station?"

Mr. Randal looked earnestly at Albert. "I declare! Now I remember him. It is! I'm sure it is."

It was useless for Albert to attempt any vindication of himself. His stammered excuses stuck
in his throat, and he was glad to hide his mortification by an early escape. Crestfallen, he
slunk away, taking all his "testimonials" with him.

"Lyman," said Mr. Conway, kindly, "I shall be very glad to employ you in my store. You shall
have good pay if you do well, and I am sure you will. You may begin work at once."

Lyman's eyes danced with joy as he left the counting-room to receive his instructions from
the head clerk.

Mr. Conway paid to Mr. Harrington the money owed him by Mr. Randal, and a heavy load was lifted
from the good old farmer's heart. He remained a visitor two or three days in Mr. Conway's house,
where he was treated with the utmost deference and attention. Mr. Conway also purchased for
him a suit of warm clothes, and an overcoat, and sent his confidential clerk with him on his
return journey to see him safely home. Nor was good Mrs. Randal forgotten. She received a handsome
present in money from Mr. Conway, and a message full of grateful affection. Nothing ever after
occurred to disturb the lives of the aged and worthy pair.

Albert Gregory obtained an excellent situation in New York, but his false character, and his
wanton disregard of others' feelings and rights, made him as hateful to his employers as to
all his associates, and he soon found it desirable to seek another place.

He has changed places many times since, and his career has been an unhappy one--another example
of the penalty of frivolous habits and a heartless nature.

Lyman Dean is now a successful merchant, a partner of Mr. Conway, and occupies a high position
in society, as an honorable, enterprising man.

    What is it that gives to the plainest face
      The charm of the noblest beauty?
    Not the thought of the duty of happiness,
      But the happiness of duty.

UNFORGOTTEN WORDS

"Have you examined that bill, James?"

"Yes, sir."

"Anything wrong?"

"I find two errors."

"Ah, let me see."

The lad handed his employer a long bill that had been placed on his desk for examination.

"Here is an error in the calculation of ten dollars, which they have made against themselves;
and another of ten dollars in the footing."

"Also against themselves?"

"Yes, sir."

The merchant smiled in a way that struck the lad as peculiar.

"Twenty dollars against themselves," he remarked in a kind of pleasant surprise. "Trusty clerks
they must have!"

"Shall I correct the figures?" asked the lad.

"No, let them correct their own mistakes. We don't examine bills for other people's benefit,"
replied the merchant. "It will be time to rectify those errors when they find them out. All
so much gain as it now stands."

The boy's delicate moral sense was shocked at so unexpected a remark. He was the son of a poor
widow, who had given him to understand that to be just was the duty of man.

Mr. Carman, the merchant in whose employment he had been for only a few months, was an old
friend of his father, and a person in whom he reposed the highest confidence. In fact, James
had always looked upon him as a kind of model man; and when Mr. Carman agreed to take him into
his store, he felt that great good fortune was in his way.

"Let them correct their own mistakes." These words made a strong impression on the mind of
James Lewis. When first spoken by Mr. Carman, and with the meaning then involved, he felt,
as we have said, shocked; but as he turned them over again in his thoughts, and connected their
utterance with a person who stood so high in his mother's estimation, he began to think that
perhaps the thing was fair enough in business. Mr. Carman was hardly the man to do wrong. A
few days after James had examined the bill, a clerk from the house by which it had been rendered,
called for settlement. The lad, who was present, waited with interest to see whether Mr. Carman
would speak of the error. But he made no remark. A check for the amount of the bill rendered,
was filled up, and a receipt taken.

"Is that right?" James asked himself this question. His moral sense said no; but the fact that
Mr. Carman had so acted, bewildered his mind.

"It may be the way in business"--so he thought to himself--"but it don't look honest. I wouldn't
have believed it of him."

Mr. Carman had a kind of way with him that won the boy's heart, and naturally tended to make
him judge of whatever he might do in a most favorable manner.

"I wish he had corrected that error," he said to himself a great many times when thinking in
a pleased way of Mr. Carman, and his own good fortune in having been received into his employment.
"It don't look right, but it may be in the way of business."

One day he went to the bank and drew the money for a check. In counting it over he found that
the teller had paid him fifty dollars too much, so he went back to the counter and told him
of his mistake. The teller thanked him, and he returned to the store with the consciousness
in his mind of having done right.

"The teller overpaid me by fifty dollars," he said to Mr. Carman, as he handed him the money.

"Indeed," replied the latter, a light breaking over his countenance; and he hastily counted
the bank bills.

The light faded as the last bill left his fingers.

"There's no mistake, James." A tone of disappointment was in his voice.

"Oh, I gave him back the fifty dollars. Wasn't that right?"

"You simpleton!" exclaimed Mr. Carman. "Don't you know that bank mistakes are never corrected?
If the teller had paid you fifty dollars short he would not have made it right."

The warm blood mantled the cheek of James under this reproof. It is often the case that more
shame is felt for a blunder than a crime. In this instance the lad felt a sort of mortification
at having done what Mr. Carman was pleased to call a silly thing, and he made up his mind that
if they should ever overpay him a thousand dollars at the bank, he should bring the amount
to his employer, and let him do as he pleased with the money.

"Let people look after their own mistakes," said Mr. Carman.

James Lewis pondered these things in his heart. The impression they made was too strong ever
to be forgotten. "It may be right," he said, but he did not feel altogether satisfied.

A month or two after the occurrence of that bad mistake, as James counted over his weekly wages,
just received from Mr. Carman, he discovered that he was paid half a dollar too much.

The first impulse of his mind was to return the half-dollar to his employer, and it was on
his lips to say, "You have given me half a dollar too much, sir," when the unforgotten words,
"Let people look after their own mistakes," flashing upon his thoughts, made him hesitate.
To hold a parley with evil is to be overcome.

"I must think about this," said James, as he put the money in his pocket. "If it is true in
one case, it is true in another. Mr. Carman don't correct mistakes that people make in his
favor, and he can't complain when the rule works against him."

But the boy was very far from being in a comfortable state. He felt that to keep half a dollar
would be a dishonest act. Still he could not make up his mind to return it, at least not then.

James did not return the half-dollar, but spent it to his own gratification. After he had done
this it came suddenly into his head that Mr. Carman had only been trying him, and he was filled
with anxiety and alarm.

Not long after Mr. Carman repeated the same mistake. James kept the half-dollar with less hesitation.

"Let him correct his own mistakes," said he resolutely; "that's the doctrine he acts on with
other people, and he can't complain if he gets paid in the same coin he puts in circulation.
I just wanted half a dollar."

From this time the fine moral sense of James Lewis was blunted. He had taken an evil counselor
into his heart, stimulated a spirit of covetousness--latent in almost every mind--which caused
him to desire the possession of things beyond his ability to obtain.

James had good business qualifications, and so pleased Mr. Carman by his intelligence, industry,
and tact with customers, that he advanced him rapidly, and gave him, before he was eighteen
years of age, the most reliable position in the store. But James had learned something more
from his employer than how to do business well. He had learned to be dishonest. He had never
forgotten the first lesson he had received in this bad science; he had acted upon it, not only
in two instances, but in a hundred, and almost always to the injury of Mr. Carman. He had long
since given up waiting for mistakes to be made in his favor, but originated them in the varied
and complicated transactions of a large business in which he was trusted implicitly.

James grew sharp, cunning, and skilful; always on the alert; always bright, and ready to meet
any approaches towards a discovery of his wrong-doing by his employer, who held him in the
highest regard.

Thus it went on until James Lewis was in his twentieth year, when the merchant had his suspicions
aroused by a letter that spoke of the young man as not keeping the most respectable company,
and as spending money too freely for a clerk on a moderate salary.

Before this time James had removed his mother into a pleasant house, for which he paid a rent
of four hundred dollars; his salary was eight hundred, but he deceived his mother by telling
her it was fifteen hundred. Every comfort that she needed was fully supplied, and she was beginning
to feel that, after a long and painful struggle with the world, her happier days had come.

James was at his desk when the letter was received by Mr. Carman. He looked at his employer
and saw him change countenance suddenly. He read it over twice, and James saw that the contents
produced disturbance. Mr. Carman glanced towards the desk, and their eyes met; it was only
for a moment, but the look that James received made his heart stop beating.

There was something about the movements of Mr. Carman for the rest of the day that troubled
the young man. It was plain to him that suspicion had been aroused by that letter. Oh, how
bitterly now did he repent, in dread of discovery and punishment, the evil of which he had
been guilty! Exposure would disgrace and ruin him, and bow the head of his widowed mother even
to the grave.

"You are not well this evening," said Mrs. Lewis, as she looked at her son's changed face across
the table, and noticed that he did not eat.

"My head aches."

"Perhaps a rest will make you feel better."

"I'll lie down on the sofa in the parlor for a short time."

Mrs. Lewis followed him into the parlor in a little while, and, sitting down on the sofa on
which he was lying, placed her hand upon his head. Ah, it would take more than the loving pressure
of a mother's hand to ease the pain from which he was suffering. The touch of that pure hand
increased the pain to agony.

"Do you feel better?" asked Mrs. Lewis. She had remained some time with her hand on his forehead.

"Not much," he replied, and rising as he spoke, he added, "I think a walk in the open air will
do me good."

"Don't go out, James," said Mrs. Lewis, a troubled feeling coming into her heart.

"I'll walk only a few squares." And James went from the parlor and passed into the street.

"There is something more than headache the matter with him," thought Mrs. Lewis.

For half an hour James walked without any purpose in his mind beyond the escape from the presence
of his mother. At last his walk brought him near Mr. Carman's store, and at passing he was
surprised at seeing a light within.

"What can this mean?" he asked himself, a new fear creeping, with its shuddering impulse, into
his heart.

He listened by the door and windows, but he could hear no sound within.

"There's something wrong," he said, "what can it be? If this is discovered what will be the
end of it? Ruin! ruin! My poor mother!"

The wretched young man hastened on, walked the streets for two hours, when he returned home.
His mother met him when he entered, and with unconcealed anxiety, asked him if he were better.
He said yes, but in a manner that only increased the trouble she felt, and passed up hastily
to his own room.

In the morning the strangely altered face of James, as he met his mother at the breakfast table,
struck alarm into her heart. He was silent, and evaded all her questions. While they sat at
the table the door-bell rang loudly. The sound startled James, and he turned his head to listen,
in a nervous way.

"Who is it?" asked Mrs. Lewis.

"A gentleman who wishes to see Mr. James," replied the girl.

James rose instantly and went out into the hall, shutting the dining-room door as he did so.
Mrs. Lewis sat waiting her son's return. She heard him coming back in a few moments; but he
did not enter the dining-room. Then he returned along the hall to the street door and she heard
it shut. All was silent. Starting up, she ran into the passage, but James was not there. He
had gone away with the person who called.

Ah, that was a sad going away. Mr. Carman had spent half the night in examining the accounts
of James, and discovered frauds of over six thousand dollars. Blindly indignant, he sent an
officer to arrest him early in the morning; and it was with this officer that he went away
from his mother, never to return.

"The young villain shall lie in the bed he has made for himself!" exclaimed Mr. Carman, in
his bitter indignation. And he made the exposure completely. At the trial he showed an eager
desire to have him convicted, and presented such an array of evidence that the jury could not
give any other verdict than guilty.

The poor mother was in court, and audibly in the silence that followed came her convulsed sobs
upon the air. The presiding judge addressed the culprit, and asked if he had anything to say
why the sentence should not be pronounced against him. All eyes were turned upon the pale,
agitated young man, who rose with an effort, and leaned against the railing by which he stood,
as if needing the support.

"Will it please your honors," he said, "to direct my prosecutor to come a little nearer, so
that I can look at him and your honors at the same time?"

Mr. Carman was directed to come forward to where the boy stood. James looked at him steadily
for a few moments, and turned to the judges.

"What I have to say to your honors is this [he spoke calmly and distinctly], and it may in
a degree extenuate, though it cannot excuse, my crime. I went into that man's store an innocent
boy, and if he had been an honest man I would not have stood before you to-day as a criminal!"

Mr. Carman appealed to the court for protection against an allegation of such an outrageous
character; but he was peremptorily ordered to be silent. James went on in a firm voice,--

"Only a few weeks after I went into his employment I examined a bill by his direction, and
discovered an error of twenty dollars."

The face of Mr. Carman crimsoned.

"You remember it, I see," remarked James, "and I shall have cause to remember it as long as
I live. The error was in favor of Mr. Carman. I asked if I should correct the figures, and
he answered 'No; let them correct their own mistakes. We don't examine bills for other people's
benefit.' It was my first lesson in dishonesty. I saw the bill settled, and Mr. Carman take
twenty dollars that was not his own. I felt shocked at first; it seemed such a wrong thing.
But soon after he called me a simpleton for handing back a fifty-dollar bill to the teller
of a bank, which he had overpaid me on a check, and then--"

