NICANOR TELLER OF TALES

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

NICANOR TELLER OF TALES

A Story Of Roman Britain

By C. BRYSON TAYLOR

Author Of "In The Dwellings Of The Wilderness"

Having Pictures and Designs by Troy and Margaret West Kinney

Chicago A. C. Mcclurg & Co. 1906

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright A. C. McCLURG & CO. 1906 Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England All rights reserved

Published April 28, 1906

Typography by The University Press, Cambridge, U.S.A. Presswork by The Lakeside Press, Chicago,
U.S.A.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

C. H. B.

To you, whose love did come And oft did sing to me, When I was working in the furrows.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

                                  BOOK I                        PAGE

THE MANTLE OF MELCHIOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

                                  BOOK II

THE GARDEN OF DREAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59

                                  BOOK III

PAWNS AND PLAYERS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

                                  BOOK IV

THE LORD'S DAUGHTER AND THE ONE WHO WENT IN CHAINS . . . . . . . 207

                                  BOOK V

THE NIGHT AND THE DAWNING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                                Page

"In a physical ecstasy he spoke out that which clamored on his lips" [Page 44]            
Frontispiece

"'Were I that woman, I should have wanted to love him'" [Page 85]                         
72

"'You sent for me, Lady Varia?'" [Page 152]                      176

"Half a dozen young beauties had taken possession,--girls of the haughtiest blood in Britain"
[Page 240]                   254

"The sight burst upon him in all its hideousness--where had been the stately mansion of his
lord" [Page 344]             364

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CHARACTERS

EUDEMIUS, a Roman lord living in Britain

VARIA, his daughter

LIVINIUS, a Roman citizen, a boyhood friend of Eudemius

MARIUS, his son, of the Roman legions in Gaul

MARCUS SILENUS POMPONIUS, Count of the Saxon Shore } AURELIUS MENOTUS, duumvir of Anderida
} Guests of FELIX, his son                                     } Eudemius CAIUS JULIUS VALENS,
a Roman citizen               }

JULIA   } NIGIDIA } Roman girls, daughters of the PAULA   } guests of Eudemius GRATIA  }

NERISSA, nurse to Varia

HITO, master of the household of Eudemius

CHLORIS, of all nations, living upon Thorney

SADA, a Saxon   } inmates of her house EUNICE, a Greek }

ELDRIS, a Briton, a convert to Christianity

WARDO, a Saxon, a slave in the house of Eudemius

VALERIUS, a Roman, a soldier of fortune

TOBIAS, a Hebrew, a worker in ivory

RATHUMUS, a British peasant, bound to the soil

SUSANNA, a Hebrew woman, his wife

NICANOR, a story-teller, their son

WULF, the Red, a Saxon free-lance

CEAWLIN, a Saxon chieftain

FATHER AMBROSE, of the Christian church

NICODEMUS, the One-Eyed, a British freedman

MYLEIA, his wife

MARCUS, a slave in the house of Eudemius

BALBUS, a convict

JUNCINA, a fish-wife on Thorney

SOSIA, her daughter

A flower-girl, a Saxon singer, slaves, trades-folk, soldiers of the military police; guards
and overseers of the mines, and miners; Roman nobles and patrician women; Saxon men-at-arms,
and men of the outland nations

Scene: Britain in the last days of Roman power Time: between A.D. 410 and 446

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

LIST OF TOWNS AND RIVERS

WITH THEIR MODERN SITES AND NAMES

Abus Flumen          Humber River. Ad Fines             Broughing, Hertfordshire. Anderida
Pevensey. Aquæ Solis           Bath. Bibracte             Unknown. Caledonia            Scotland.
Calleva              Silchester. Corinium             Cirencester. Cunetio              Folly
Farm, near Marlborough. Deva                 Chester. Dubræ                Dover. Eboracum
York. Gobannium            Abergavenny. Glevum               Gloucester. Isca Silurum     
Carleon. Leucarum             Llychwr, county of Glamorgan. Londinium            London. Noviomagus
Holwood Hill, parish of Bromley. Pontes               Staines Portus Magnus        Porchester.
Ratæ                 Leicester. Regnum               Chichester. Rutupiæ              Richborough
Sabrina Flumen       Severn River. Serica               China. Tamesis Flumen       Thames
River. Tripontium           Near Lilburne. Uriconium            Wroxeter. Urus Flumen     
Ouse River.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE MANTLE OF MELCHIOR

BOOK I

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

NICANOR: TELLER OF TALES

Book I

THE MANTLE OF MELCHIOR

I

Nicanor the story-teller was the son of Rathumus the wood-cutter, who was the son of Razis
the worker in bronze, who was the son of Melchior the story-teller. So that Nicanor came honestly
by his gift, and would even believe that his great-grandsire had handed it down to him by special
act of bequest.

Now Rathumus the wood-cutter, tall and gaunt and fierce-eyed, coming home with his fagots on
his shoulder in the gloam of the evening, when the fireflies twinkled low among the marshes,
saw Nicanor on the side of the hill against the sky, sitting with hands clasped about his knees,
crooning to the stars. Rathumus bowed his head and entered his house, and to Susanna, his wife,
he said:

"The gift of our father Melchior hath fallen upon the child. I have seen it coming this long,
long while. Now he singeth to the stars. When they have heard him and have taught him, he will
go and sing to men. He is our child no longer, wife. His life hath claimed him."

Susanna, the mother, said:

"He will be a man among men. He will be a great man among great men. It may be that the Lord
Governor will send for him. But--oh, my boy--my boy!"

Rathumus answered gravely:

"Pray the holy gods he will not misuse his power!"

Presently Nicanor came in, with the spell not yet shaken off him, wanting his supper. A smaller
image of his father he was, lean and shock-headed, with gray steady eyes changing from the
stillness of childhood's innocence to the depth and wonder of dawning knowledge.

Rathumus said:

"What hast been doing, boy?"

Nicanor stretched like one arousing from sleep.

"I know not," he answered. "Perhaps I slept out under the moon last night and she hath turned
my head.--Father, I have been thinking. When I am become a man I shall do great things. Even
you have told me that the destiny of a man's life lieth between his hands."

"Son," Rathumus said quickly, "remember also that men's hands lie between the hands of the
gods, even as a slave's between the hands of his over-lord. Keep it in mind, child, that thou
art very young, that thy first strength hath not yet come upon thee; and strive not to teach
to others what thou hast not learned thyself. For that way lies mockery and the scorn of men."

"Now I do not understand where thy words would lead," Nicanor said; and his gray eyes, in the
wavering torchlight, were doubtful. "I teach no one. Perhaps--it was not I who slept under
the moon, after all."

For he was young, and though his parents saw what had come upon him, he himself saw not.

So Nicanor had his supper, of black bean-porridge, taking no thought of those parents' loving
thought for him; and later climbed the ladder to the loft where he slept. After a while, Susanna,
yearning over her boy in this, the first dim hour of his awakening,--yearning all the more
since she saw that he was following blindly the workings of his own appointed fate, without
any sense or knowledge of it himself,--went up the ladder also and sat beside him, thinking
him asleep. But Nicanor put out a hand and slid it into hers, and shuffled in his straw until
he was close against her. She gathered him into her arms, his shaggy head upon her breast,
and rocked him to and fro in the darkness. To-morrow he would go where this fate of his called
him; but this last night he must be hers, all hers, who had borne him only to give him up.
Nicanor, stupid with sleep and comfort, murmured drowsily, and she bent close over him to listen.

"Mother, three nights ago my father spoke of Melchior, and the name hath lingered in my head.
Who was he? What was he?"

"Thy father's father's sire," she told him. She saw it coming; the chains which bound his heart
to hers were stretching. "He was a teller of tales, son, and--thy father thinks a fold of his
mantle hath fallen upon thee. He it was who was first servus in the family of our lord. Little
one, tell mother; what thoughts hast thou when the night comes down and the wide earth hushes
into drowsy crooning? Hast ever felt dreams stirring at thy heart-strings like chords of faintest
music?"

"Mother!" Nicanor cried, and tightened his arms about her. "Thou hast it--the words--the words!
Tell me how to do it! Thoughts I have, and visions so far away that they are gone before I
know them--but the words! I cannot say the things I would, so that they ring. Teach it me, then!"

Susanna laughed, and stroked her boy's hot head.

"Words I have, little son," she said softly, "but I have no tune to sing them to. A woman hath
but one tune, and that is ever in the same key. One song, and one only, in her life she hath,
and when that is ended, she is dumb. But please the good God! thou'lt have what lies behind
the words and alone makes them of value; the thought which is the foundation-stone to build
upon. And then the words will come also. What visions hast thou seen, sonling?"

"Mother, I cannot tell, for my mouth is empty though my head rings. Always it begins as though
a curtain of mist were swept rolling back from the face of the world, and I see below me vague
mountains and broad lonely wastes, and gray cities sleeping in dead moonlight, for it is ever
night. I see clouds that reach away to the rim of the earth, and it is all as in a dream, and--and
so deep within me that I lose it before I know it.--Oh, I cannot tell!"

He stirred restlessly and nestled his head deeper into her breast, and she stroked his hair
in silence. When he spoke again there was a new note in his boy's voice.

"Mother, I too will be a teller of tales, even as was that sire of my father's sire whose name
was Melchior. For in that there is to me all joy, and no pain nor sorrow at all. And I shall
be great, greater than he and greater than those who shall come after me."

Susanna laid her hand across his mouth.

"Hush thee, for the love of dear Heaven, hush! That is boasting, and good never came of that!
Oh, little son of mine, listen to me, thy mother,--it may be for the last time,--and keep my
words always in a corner of thy heart. They shall be as a charm to keep all danger from thee.
Pray to God nightly, the dear God of Whom I have tried to teach thee; keep thy hands from blood,
thy body from wanton sin, and thy tongue from guile. So shalt thou be pure and thy tales prosper;
for untainted fruit never blossomed from a dunghill. Remember that the Lord loveth all his
creatures even the same as he loveth thee. As thou hast good and evil both within thee, so
have others; wherefore judge them in mercy as thou wouldst thyself. And judge thyself in sternness
as thou wouldst them; so shalt thou keep the balance true. Now thou art sleeping through my
preaching--well, never mind! Kiss thy mother, dear one, and I will go."

She descended the ladder; and Nicanor's voice came sleepily muffled through the straw.

"All the same I shall be great--greater than that old man who was before me--greater than kings--greater
than any who shall come after--"

He slept, and the moonlight streamed upon him in a flood of silver.

And below, at Rathumus' side, lay Susanna, the mother, and stared wide-eyed and wakeful through
the darkness.

II

Nicanor sat beside the fire, his hands clasping his knees, his eyes glowing in the ruddy leaping
of the flames. Around him on the moor squatted a band of belated roving shepherds, who from
all the country round were bringing their flocks to fold for the Winter. About the fire, at
discreet intervals, the sheep were herded, each flock by itself. Around every huddle a black
figure circled, staff in hand, hushing wakeful disturbers into peace. The shepherds ringing
the fire sprawled carelessly; uncouth rough men with shaggy beards and keen eyes, their features
thrown into sharp relief against the light. Farther off, small groups, close-sitting, cast
dice upon a sheepskin with muttered growls of laughter. The musky smell of the animals tinged
the first chill of Autumn which hung in the air. Around them the moor stretched away, vast
and silent, broken into ridges filled with impenetrable shadows until it melted into the mystery
of the night. Over the world's darkness a slender moon, sharp-horned, wandered through rifting
clouds.

Nicanor's voice rose and fell with the crackling flames. His eyes gleamed, his face quivered;
the men within hearing hung upon his words. Gradually the dicers' laughter died; one by one
they left their clusters and joined the circle at the fire. Nicanor saw, and his heart swelled
high. This was what he loved,--to fare forth at night and come upon such a crowd of drovers,
or it might be wood-cutters or charcoal burners; to begin his chant abruptly, in the midst
of conversation; to see his listeners draw close and closer, gazing wide-eyed, half in awe;
to move them to laughter or to tears, as suited him; to sway them as the marsh winds swayed
the reeds. At times, when this sense of power shook him, he took a savage delight in seeing
them turn, one to another, great bearded men, sobbing, gasping for breath, striving for self-control,--simple-hearted
children of moor and forest, whose emotions he could mould as a potter moulds his clay. He
could have laughed aloud, he could have sung for sheer joy and triumph, to watch this thing.
Again, he would make them shiver at his tales of the world of darkness--shiver and glance from
side to side into the outer blackness, with eyes gleaming white in the firelight. For it was
a superstitious age, in which every field, every hearth-stone, had its presiding genius for
good or ill; and there were many things of which men spoke with bated breath and two fingers out.

Nicanor ended his chant:

"So this man died, being unpunished, and went away into a great country which was a field of
flowers. And in the midst of the field was a city wherein the man would enter. But even as
he walked through this field of flowers, he saw that out of the flowers ran blood, and the
flowers spoke and cried out upon him because of that thing which he had done when he was upon
the earth. And the man was sorely frightened."

There was a mutter and a stir among the crowd. A black bulk heaved itself up between Nicanor
and the firelight, and a swollen voice cried out:

"Now by Christ His cross, how comes it that this snipe of a stripling may speak from his mouth
of what lieth beyond the grave? For this is death, and death is a matter concerning Holy Church
alone. By what right doth he tell us of what she says no mortal may know?"

Cries from his mates interrupted.

"Nay, Rag; shut thy gaping mouth and leave the lad in peace! And so--and so--what then befell
this wicked man, son?"

But Rag was not minded to be put aside so lightly.

"I say 'tis wrong!" he bawled. "No man, without warrant, may thus blab of what goeth on beyond
the grave!"

A voice seconded him from the outer ring, but dubiously.

"I think the Saxon right! How may we know if this lad speaks true of that which comes to pass
hereafter? Boy, what earnest canst give that this thing happened so?"

But another shouted:

"In the name of the gods, Rag, get thee to sleep once more, thou stupidest lout in Britain!
It is a scurvy trick to waken thus at the wrong time and trumpet thy nonsense in such fashion.
Good youth canst not skip that bit for peace's sake, and get on to the next part?"

Rag's voice blared into this one's speech.

"Nay, now I am awake, I'll not sleep again until I know if a lie hath waked me. For if it be
not the truth, it is a lie, and a lie shall have short shrift with me!"

The men, stirred by the tale, took sides. A gale of conversation sprang up. Some wished the
story to go on; others would know by what means this lanky youth could tell of what was to
come to pass hereafter. They knew not the word imagination. Consequently fierce arguments arose.
The burly cause of the uproar curled up and went quietly to sleep once more, leaving his fellows
to settle for themselves the questions he had propounded. It is the way of his kind. High words
fanned the spark of their excitement. Two met with blows; one stumbled into the hot embers.
He cursed, and the light flashed on a drawn blade. Instantly the noise redoubled. Mingled with
it was the bleating of frightened sheep, the oaths of drovers who strove to check incipient
stampedes. Nicanor hugged himself with joy. If but his father could be there to see! Melchior,
that wonderful great-sire of his, could not have so stirred men that they were ready even for
blood and violence. He, Nicanor, could; wherefore he was greater than Melchior. His blood leaped
at the thought; he wished to proclaim his exultation to the world.

But things soon took a different turn.

In the confusion, Rag, lying almost beneath his comrades' feet, got himself kicked. He leaped
to his feet, dazed, roaring like a bull, and, stupid lout that he was, took unreasoning vengeance
upon the first object which caught his eye. This chanced to be Nicanor.

"See what thou hast brought us to, son of perdition!" he cried. "But for thee and thy fool's
tales we should be lying asleep like good men and true. This is thy work, with thy talk on
heaven and hell and flowers which vomit blood. God's death! Heard ever man the like? If thou
knowest not of what thou pratest, thou hast lied, and that deserves a beating. If thou dost
know, thou hast the black art of magic,--an evil-doer, with familiars who tell thee things
not to be known of earth; and that deserves a flaying!"

His voice was loud. His partisans took up his cry. Nicanor found himself surrounded. He became
enraged; forgot that he himself with his wizard tongue had worked them into a very fitting
state for any outbreak. That the emotions he had aroused should be turned against himself was
a monstrous thing. He drew his knife; one seized it from his hand and flung it into the heart
of the fire. Black figures danced around him; he was lifted off his feet by their rush; flung
down, trampled upon, bruised, kicked, beaten. Men, losing all thought of him, fought over his
head, clamoring old pagan creeds and shrieking aloud their theories concerning the Seven Mysteries
of the Church. They differed wildly. From the criticism of a romantic tale, the discussion
flamed into a religious war.

One with a broken head fell senseless near Nicanor. He, in scarcely better case, turned and
squirmed until he got himself covered with the body; so saved his ribs and perhaps his life.

The combat ended, after a lapse of minutes, as abruptly as it had started. A cry arose from
the hurrying guardians of the flocks:

"The sheep! Look to the sheep! They scatter!"

The animals, frightened by the uproar into panic, broke from their cordon and bolted into the
darkness. Religion was forgotten on the instant; men in the act of giving a blow swung around
and fled after their property. Seeing this out of the tail of his eye, Nicanor crawled from
beneath the protecting body. He stood upright beside the deserted fire, panting, glaring, his
clothes in tatters. Blood flowed from his nose, and from a cut upon his temple. He was a sorry
sight. He lifted his clenched fist and shook it at his vanishing assailants.

"By Christ His cross!" he swore, repeating Rag's oath, "after this I shall make you believe
what I tell you, though I say that your hell is heaven and your heaven hell. You have bruised
me, beaten me, because of what? Something too high for your sodden brains to know! You have
flouted me; now I shall flout you. I shall make you fear me, tremble at my words--ay, kiss
the very ground beneath my feet. You shall learn to fear me and my power; you shall cringe
like the curs you are!"

He went home in a quiver of rage and hate and shame, wounded in his body, still more sorely
in his dignity, and told his mother he was going away. Where, he did not know. This was a small
detail, since to him all the world was new. Folk had faith in the manifestations of Providence
in those days; Rathumus and Susanna believed they heard Fate speaking by the mouth of their
angry son. Susanna's eyes filled with tears. Rathumus nodded his great head gravely and slowly.
Nicanor, overflowing with his wrongs, strode up and down the hard earth floor in a passion.
Again he gave tongue to his lamentations.

"I am stronger than they--I shall conquer! Thou shalt see! I shall make them acknowledge that
I, son of Rathumus, am greater than they. This shall be my revenge, and though it take me all
the years of my life, I shall win to it by fair means or foul."

"Son, son!" Rathumus said sternly. "Speak not thus rashly. For the gods, and the gods alone,
is vengeance."

But Susanna took her boy to his own loft, and there comforted him, motherwise.

"Thou wilt yet get the better of them all, my son. That they should have dared to treat thee
so! But oh, be careful, for my sake! Now hearken. I will have thy father pray that our gracious
lord permit thee to go to Christian Saint Peter's church, on Thorney, which is called the Bramble
Isle, to learn a trade. Though he be no believer in the Faith, our lord is a good man, merciful
unto us, his slaves, and I doubt not will give consent. Then seek there a man by name of Tobias,
a colonus and a worker in ivory for the good Christian priests. He, it may be, will aid thee
for sake of her who is thy mother."

She stopped, then, and looked into his face. But he met her eyes without a change, and never
thought to question what her words might mean. For he was very young; also his mother was his
mother. So that Susanna smiled, for pure joy and happiness, and said:

"He is a wise man, with goodly store of wealth. Also hath he been in far strange countries,
and seen right marvellous things. And he will take thee to learn of him, if so be thou wilt
say thou art son to Rathumus and Susanna his wife. And so wilt thou become great, and very
wise, and loving."

So in the end, Nicanor started off alone in the world, with his parents' blessing, which was
all they had to give him, to find out whither this Fate of his had called him.

III

Thus it was that Nicanor left his home in the gray northlands, up by the rolling hills and
the barren moors which lay under the great Wall of Hadrian; and journeyed down the long road
which led ever southward to Londinium. Past Eboracum, on the Urus, that "other Rome," where
the Governor of Britain dwelt, famous as the station of the Sixth Legion, called the Victorious,
the flower of the Roman army, which men said had been there for upwards of three hundred years.
He crossed the wide river Abus, and thought it the ocean of which he had heard tales; he stole
at stations and begged at farms, and drank in all that he could see and hear.

Over hills and through valleys the great road ran, straightaway for league upon league, turning
aside for no obstacle, invincible as its builders, ancient and enduring. It crossed rivers,
it clove through darkling woods, it traversed wide and lonely wastes, and led past walled towns,
worn by the feet of marching legions, scored with the grooves of wheels. And even as across
the world all roads led to Rome, so here did all roads lead to Londinium, and therefore to
Thorney on Tamesis.

And Londinium was no longer the collection of mud huts filled with blue-painted Britons, of
which dim tales were told. For under Roman rule fair Britain had cast half off the shroud of
her brutish early days, and blossomed into a civilization such as she never before had known,
and would not know again for many hundred years. One passing glimpse of light she caught--even
though it had its shadows--before the veil shut down once more with the coming of the Saxons.
For, though Roman rule in Britain was said to end with the fourth century, Roman influence,
Roman customs, Roman laws, survived and were paramount during the years of independence which
followed, until throttled by the slowly tightening hand of Saxon barbarism. Then the old dark
times returned.

The Romans were hard taskmasters, but the task they had was hard. They were often merciless,
but those beneath them had been wild beasts to tame. They were in power supreme and absolute,
and they lived in ease and plenty upon the toil of native serfs and bondsmen. Fair villas,
stately palaces, costly foods and fine raiment--all the luxuries those old days knew were theirs.
Under them was the mass of the native population, staggering beneath their burden of taxation,
bound to the soil, often absolute slaves, who spent their lives toiling in brickfields, in
quarries, in mines, and in forests, living in straw-thatched cabins upon the lands of masters
who paid no wage. When there was rebellion, these masters knew how to deal punishment swift
and sure; when there was submission, they gave kindness and reward. Had Rome not been as strong
as even in her decline she was, Romans could not have held Britain as long as they did. For
on sea and land, on the verge of the civilization they maintained, were restless tribes, Scots,
Picts, and Saxons, seizing every pretext, every moment of unguardedness, for encroachment and
disturbance.

So that their stern discipline was necessary, and not without results which went for further
good. Under Roman rule all the surface of the land was changed. Great towns, walled and fortified,
rose on the sites of ditch-surrounded villages. Marshes were drained, bridges were built, and
rivers banked; forests were cleared and waste lands reclaimed. More than all, the land was
tilled and rendered productive, so that Britain became the most important grain province of
the empire. Romans found in Britain a scant supply of corn, grasses on which the cattle fed,
wild plums, a few nuts and berries. They brought to Britain fruits and vegetables from many
lands beyond the seas; from Italy gooseberries, chestnuts, and apples; walnuts from Gaul; apricots,
peaches, and pears from Asia. Paved roads webbed the island, wide and well-drained, by which
bodies of troops could be massed at any given point with incredible rapidity. Fortifications
were built and in the north walls of solid masonry were thrown across the country from the
Oceanus Ibernicus to the Oceanus Germanicus, for the determent of common foes.

That upon which Rome once set her seal could never wholly lose the mark; must remain bound
to her by ties, which, stretching across the centuries, would link the future to the past.
In spite of the bitterness of her defeat and ruin, and because she still was Rome, she was
mighty enough to leave precious gifts to the peoples who should come after her. To Britain,
because Britain had been her own, she left many legacies great and small: the sonorous richness
of her speech, soon corrupted to make for a new world a new speech as noble; and more than
all, she left the word of her mighty law, proudest monument ever reared by mortal hands to
a nation's glory. Rome's sons builded well for her; and the labor of their hearts and hands
was not for the day alone, but for the ages. Towns yet to rise upon the ashes of her stately
cities would find their model in her municipal government, and in her laws concerning the taxation
of land and the distribution of personal and real estate. Old customs she left to be handed
down to those who should sit in her sons' places,--the luctus of widows, who for a full year
of widowhood might not wed again; the names of her deities she gave to the days of the planetary
week. Her superstitions and folk-lore, deep-rooted, survived and lingered long among many nations:
the old sorcery of the waxen image of an enemy transfixed by bodkins for the torment of that
enemy; the belief in the were-wolf (one of the oldest of Roman traditions); the association
of the yew tree with mourning and the passing of human souls.

Britain, with all her virgin wealth unmined, furnished Rome with enormous food supplies; sent
many thousand men to serve with Roman armies on the continent; and received the colonists,
called auxiliaries, brought thither in accordance with Rome's invariable policy of transplanting
to the land of one nation captives from another. Thus the population of Britain, composed of
people from nearly every race or tribe which has been subdued by Rome, was strangely heterogeneous,
yet as strangely fused. It was Romanized; the national individuality of its units was lost
in that of their conqueror. But as Rome destroyed the nationality of her captives, so in time
she inevitably destroyed her own. If they were Romanized, she was Gothicized and Gaulicized.
But by this means only was the circulation of her life-currents maintained to the uttermost
branches of the empire. That great empire, age-old, rotting inwardly almost to decay, was vitalized,
as it were galvanically, against her approaching dissolution by the blood of her colonies.
In the throes of hierarchical government, torn by three irreconcilable religions,--polytheistic,
Julian or Augustan, and Christian,--she had no strength to spare for these outsiders when her
own life was at stake. The story of Roman Britain is the old story which history repeats down
all the ages: Rome sacrificed one part of Europe that the whole might not be lost, and offered
up the few for the good of the greater number.

For in those dark days from the second century of the Christian era until near the close of
the fifth, when came the last stage of the struggle and the extinction of the Empire of the
West, the world seemed tottering to its ruin. Kingdoms shook and crumbled to their fall; new
powers strove headlong for their seats; men found themselves harried on all sides, with no
pause for respite, and harried again in turn. They did not understand; they knew only that
fierce unrest possessed all the earth, manifesting itself in the terrible wandering of the
nations, which was to culminate in a new world and a new order of things. Small wonder that
bewildered folk, swept on and overwhelmed in the maelstrom of world-wide turbulence, unknowing
what must happen next, predicted and believed that with the year 999 the end of the world would
surely come.

They had good reason for such belief. At Rome the fierce tribes from Northern Europe could
no longer be held back. Goths, Vandals, Huns, each in their own good time had joined in the
attack. Rome the Mighty, the Eternal, invincible as Fate, whose power no man believed could
have an end, was brought to bay at last, impotent, drained by internal sores, goaded and tortured
by foes without, with a horde of wolfish barbarians snarling and snapping at her throat. From
one distant province after another her legions were called home. The fated twelve centuries
of her power were ended; the direst tragedy of history had begun.

Britain, with all her fear and hatred of the heavy Roman hand, had yet been secure from outer
harm while the strength of that hand was with her. For in the north were skulking bands of
Picts and Scots, lawless and undisciplined, seized with the contagion of excitement which stirred
their neighbors. In the south were Saxons, the terrible men of the Short Knives; about the
coasts to east and south were bands of pirates, Jutes and Saxons both. Driven from their own
lairs, they could but seek new resting-places; and Britain was the only spot where they might
obtain a foothold. These rovers the Roman legions had held long years in check; yet it was
told that soon the troops would be recalled to Rome's defence. None believed that Britain would
be left wholly to herself; for Rome was too far away for her full peril to be brought home
to those whose own affairs kept their hands well filled. But in the tenth year of the fifth
century across the sea came letters from Honorius the Emperor, urging the cities of Britain
to provide for their own defence, since Rome could no longer send them aid. And for Britain
this was the slow beginning of the end. There followed then invasion after invasion of barbarians,
which the cities, forever quarrelling among themselves, were forced to unite in repulsing.
The Saxons thus overcome, ended usually by settling in Roman cities under Roman government
peaceably enough until the next attack by their countrymen, in which they invariably joined.
By the year 420 Angles and Saxons had gradually established themselves on the eastern and southeastern
coasts, while other allied tribes constantly harassed the western districts.

Since the second century Rome's army in Britain had dwindled to four legions. At Deva, in the
west, was the Twentieth Legion, holding in check the fierce mountain tribes of the Silures,
and, with the Second, farther south, at Isca Silurum, keeping at bay the pirates who at times
sailed up the broad Sabrina on plunder bent. In the north, at Eboracum, was the famous Sixth,
within quick reaching-distance of Valentia and Caledonia. At Ratæ was the Ninth, guarding the
low country and the eastern fens. But after the Emperor's letter, the Ninth and the Twentieth
sailed away, and the proconsul at Eboracum perforce sent part of his own troops to fill their
places. Two years later, the Sixth was recalled. And then the consul abandoned Eboracum, that
great city which since its foundation had been the seat of government for all the land, and
with his forces moved farther south, leaving it deserted.

But not for long. For Caledonians and Saxons came down from the north and occupied it, and
settled there to stay. And after that, whenever Romans left the northern towns, seeking greater
security in the southward provinces, the barbarians advanced and took possession, and thus
gained the foothold for which they had been struggling ever since the Conquest. And so the
coming of the end was hastened.

Those later days of the departure of the troops were stirring days. The island, governed by
the lords of the cities, each in feudal independence, had shaken off the leading-strings of
Rome. It was wealthy; as yet it was prosperous; the advance of the barbarians, though it might
be sure, was slow. When Rome's troubles were past, she would send her troops again, and the
invaders would be driven out for good and all. Yet there were many folk abroad in those days,
asking anxious questions, filled with responsibility and care. And ever and again, along the
great white roads, a cohort would go flashing past, lined up to full number, gallant in fighting
trim, with standards flying, and eyes set always southward, toward the sea and Rome.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were many other folk upon the busy highways,--an endless procession that went and came.
Pack-horses, war chariots, slaves and soldiers, nobles, merchants, and artificers, men with
goods to sell and men without,--a motley throng from many lands. Nicanor, shy and fierce-eyed
and of shaggy hair, tramping steadily southward in the wake of the swift-footed soldiers, felt
that the world was a very mighty place, and never had he dreamed of such great people. As he
drew nearer Londinium, the traffic and the bustle increased. More troops kept coming up; and
again others passed them, going down. And now, among the low hills, he caught glimpses of fair
and stately houses gleaming among wooded groves; and there were huts of plastered mud, straw-thatched,
where dwelt gaunt, collared slaves.

On either side of the road were broad meadows where sheep were grazing; and ploughed fields
where men and women stood yoked like cattle and strained to the cut of the ploughman's lash;
and quarries where men toiled endlessly under heart-breaking loads, driven on by blows and
curses. These were the things which Nicanor had known all his life, for his father worked,
and his mother. But when he met a fat and perfumed man, riding upon a milk-white mule, with
servants before and behind him, and beasts of burden bearing hampers,--then Nicanor could not
understand. He bowed before the fat man deeply, thinking him the great Lord Governor himself;
and men by the roadside laughed and mocked him. So that he fought them, and came out of his
second conflict very valiantly, with a closed eye and a lip badly cut.

And so, in the fulness of time, he came to the last day of his journey.

It was a gray day, touched with the smoky breath of Autumn, with all the country veiled in
softest haze. It was very early morning, and few people were upon the road, although since
the first light of dawn men had been working in field and forest. From a farmhouse off the
road came the crowing of a cock and the creak of a cumbrous handmill hidden in a thick copse
near by. Nicanor, sitting by the roadside where he had slept, ate the food remaining overnight
in his wallet, and rolled his sheepskin cloak into a bundle for his shoulders. Behind him,
from the road, came a man's voice, suddenly, singing a rollicking drinking-song. The singer
brought up beside Nicanor, a black-haired man in a soiled leather jerkin and cap of shining
brass, with a matted beard and narrow eyes, and a great leaf-shaped sword swinging at his thigh.
This one hailed him heartily, in a loud voice.

"Good youth, canst tell me where I am?"

"Why, yes," said Nicanor, proud to display his knowledge of the locality. "This be the street
a Saxon man at Ad Fines named to me Eormen--"

"Ad Fines? Thirty miles from Londinium? Now I could have sworn that yesternight I was in Tripontium,
thrice thirty miles from there. I was there yesterday--or maybe that time a week ago. 'Tis
a small failing of mine to go where I do not mean to go, and know not how I get there, when
the wine is in me. But this way will do, and now I am so far upon it, I may as well go farther."

He sat down beside Nicanor.

"Dost know of any lord would have a fine stout serving-man?" he said with a wheedle. "One who
can carve, be it swine or human, skilled with sword or sling, who can drive a chariot, pair
or single-span?"

"Not I," Nicanor answered. "I be a stranger in these parts."

"Bound for Londinium?" asked the black-haired man.

"Nay, for the Christian church of Saint Peter's, on Thorney which is called the Isle of Brambles,"
said Nicanor, without guile.

"Why, then, I'll go there too," the stranger said amiably. "For I am most devilishly lost,
driven from town and camp, the first time sober in a week; and money I must gain, or starve.
Eh, Bacchus! the women--the women!" He sighed, shaking his black head dolefully.

"What concern had they with it?" Nicanor wished to know. "Did they turn thee out from camp
and town?"

"Ay, boy, turned me out and turned me inside out," said the black-haired man, and grinned.
"Never a little copper ass have I left upon me. See, now, our paths lie in the same direction,
since my path is any path. Shall we go together? For I swear I'll not get lost again. Behold
me, Valerius, sometime of the Ninth Legion at Ratæ, now, by the grace of God, of no legion
at all. I have my tablet of discharge from service; a follower of fortune you see me, with
my sword as long as the purse of him who hires it."

Nicanor, half shy, half pleased with his new acquaintance, told in turn his name and station.

"Thou and I will be good friends," the soldier said. "I love a lad of spirit, such as thou.
I'll fight for thee and thou shalt steal for me. 'Tis a fair division of labor. Hear you how
my tongue waggeth? For a week it hath been sleeping off the wine, and now that it be sober
again, it runneth by itself. Come, friend, art ready?"

On the way Valerius talked irrepressibly, with many strange oaths and ejaculations, mixing
his religions impartially. He told weird tales of life in camps and teeming cities, so that
Nicanor's blood tingled, and he longed to go also and do these things of which he heard. The
tales of Valerius did not always hang together, but Nicanor cared not at all for that. By and
by Valerius took to asking questions, his tongue in his cheek at some of Nicanor's replies.
In half an hour he had learned the boy's life, deeds, and ambitions, and had extracted a promise
that Nicanor would get the worthy Tobias to provide him also with employment, preferably around
the church, where would be fat pickings and little work. At noon they ate by the roadside with
two kindly disposed merchants, and later continued on their way, meeting other folk, with whom
Valerius passed the time of day.

So, toward sunset, they came with many others ahorse and afoot, to Thorney, the Isle of Brambles,
at the foot of the road. And here Nicanor thought he had never seen anything so wonderful,
and stood staring wide-eyed, while Valerius hummed his drinking-song and chewed a piece of
metyl leaf, which turned his lips and teeth quite red.

For here the country broadened out into a great marsh, vast and spreading widely over the land,
dotted with eyots, where birds flew low among the sedge. Away to west and east were low grim
hills, with a sense of unending space and loneliness upon them. And at the foot of the street
was the ford, crowded here with men,--soldiers and serfs and freedmen,--with horses and mules
and heavy carts. Through the ford they all went splashing; and it was wide and shallow, marked
out by stakes and with stepping-stones showing above the water. And beyond the ford, under
the gray skies, was Thorney, the Bramble Isle, alive with a swarming throng of people. On the
right of the island was Saint Peter's church, upon the spot where next Saint Peter's Abbey,
and centuries later the great Westminster, would stand. It rose silent in a smother of confusion
and a babel of noise of men shouting, and horses neighing, and the songs of boatmen on the
Tamesis which bounded the southern end of the island. There was a temple of Apollo close beside
it, for old gods and new dwelt side by side. To the ancient faith of their pagan fathers the
aristocracy of Britain still held true; the new God was for slaves and humble folk, who had
derived no benefits from the old creeds and were willing to try any which promised help. And
old Rome had seen the rise and fall of many gods, for she was aged and very wise. Jupiter,
best and greatest, Isis, Mithras, Astarte, Serapis--what was one more or less in her pantheon?

Around the church was a formless huddle of houses, thinning out and straggling at the water's
edge; and fires were blazing here and there, and men were hurrying to set all in order for
the night. For Thorney was a halting place where travellers from north and south and east and
west rested a space and went their way,--a noisy, crowded place, where centred traffic for
all Britain passing to and from Londinium, the great port, and the greater inland cities.

All of this Nicanor took in with delighted eyes. He ran down to the ford, dodging between pack-mules
and jolting two-wheeled carts, and slipping eel-like past other pedestrians, forgetting Valerius,
who hurried after. He strode from stone to stone, splashed by straining horses that tugged
beside him, and sprang to shore upon the island. So he won to his journey's end.

"Now to find that good man Tobias," quoth Valerius, and shook his wet feet daintily, as a cat
that has stepped by accident in a puddle. "He will give thee food and lodging, which thou wilt
share with me--so? Knowest thou his house? Jesus, Lord! Did ever man see the like of the nest
of houses? Hey, friend!" He laid a hand on the shoulder of one passing. "Canst tell us where
dwells the worthy Tobias, worker in ivory to the Christian Church?"

"Nay, not I," the man said, and hurried on. Over his shoulder he called back: "Ask the good
priest yonder."

Valerius doffed his brazen cap to this holy man. He, in frock of sober gray, with head shaven
to the line of the ears, and worn, pale face, walked toward the church, his beads swinging
by one finger. At Valerius's question he looked up.

"The house next the open space on the right," he answered; raised two fingers in benediction
upon them, and went his way. Valerius and Nicanor betook themselves to the house appointed.

It was then that Nicanor began to realize that he wished himself alone. Valerius hung to his
arm affectionately, and Nicanor was too shy to shake him off. He did not know what to do; wherefore
he did nothing. The house next the open space was low, of stone and timber. It was evident
that Tobias was well-to-do. Valerius pounded upon the door; the heavy shutter of a window swung
open, and a man's head peered out. It was a pink head, very bald, with flabby cheeks, a full-moon
face, and pursed lips, and the beaked Hebraic nose of his father's race.

"Who comes?" the man asked, and stared at them.

Nicanor said:

"Art thou Tobias, the ivory carver?" and the pink head nodded.

Then Nicanor said:

"From Rathumus and Susanna his wife I come, and I am Nicanor, their son, and would be prentice
to thee."

"And Valerius, thy friend," whispered Valerius, plucking at his sleeve.

"And Valerius, my friend," said Nicanor, obediently.

"Why, holy saints!" Tobias said. "From Susanna--and would be prentice to me! Hold a minute
till I let thee in."

His pink head disappeared and the shutter slammed. Soon the door was opened, and Tobias welcomed
them to his house. And a very good house it was, for Tobias was wealthy. He called his slave,
and she brought food and wine, and they sat at the trestled board on cross-legged stools and
ate until they could eat no more. Then Tobias asked questions, and Nicanor told of his home
and of his parents and of his mother's words, while Valerius, full-fed, dozed with his head
on the table. And as Nicanor talked, Tobias watched him, for to save his life the boy could
not open his mouth without a tale coming out of it; and when he had ended Tobias rose and kissed
him on both cheeks, and said:

"Thou'lt stay with me, boy, and learn all that I can teach thee, until thou'rt master-workman.
And thou shalt live with me, and be my son, for sake of her who is thy mother--and it is not
my fault that thou art not my son in very truth. Marry, but thou hast a silver tongue in that
shock head of thine. Now come to bed; thy friend here is snoring like an ox. And in the morning
we'll begin work, and one of my lads shall tell thee what to do."

So they roused up Valerius and took him off to a room with one window and a bed. And here Valerius,
slipping out of his baldric, pulled the blanket from the bed, flung himself, dressed as he
was, upon the floor, and was instantly as one dead.

IV

But Nicanor went to the window and opened the wooden shutter and leaned out. He heard the roar
of the many camps, blending into one vast undercurrent of sound; he caught the red gleam of
fires half hidden behind intervening houses; now and then a bellowed chorus reached him. Also
there were sweet tinkling sounds, of a kind which he had never heard before, which thrilled
him strangely. Sudden desire took him to be out in the midst of this new stirring life; to
see the crowded places, the mingling of many men. Preparations for the night were going on,
for it was dark by now, with high twinkling stars. He could see, by leaning far out, the moving
glare of torches held high as belated wayfarers crossed the ford, the reflection of the lights
dancing on the shallow waters. The fascination of it, this his first sight of Life, gripped
him, not to be denied. He sprang to the ledge of the window, writhed himself through, and dropped
to the ground outside.

Then, at once, he was in a new world,--a world of flickering flames and black dancing shadows,
and strange sights and sounds, and restless figures passing always to and fro. And, quite dazed,
he stumbled against one, not a rod from the house, who laughed, with a laughter which made
him think of the tinkling music he had heard, and beckoned him, drawing him in the darkness.
But Nicanor, thrilling through all the awakening soul and body of him, turned and ran, shy
suddenly, but at what he did not know.

So he came to a fire burning in a ring of stones; and around the fire men were sitting, eating
and drinking, and the light played on their faces. With them were women, at whom Nicanor stared
agape. For they were very fair to look on, with jewel-bound hair and slumberous eyes, lithe
as snakes, with bare shoulders and dress of strange clinging stuffs. These were dancing girls,
being taken to the great inland cities for sale or hire. And near by, huddled close for warmth,
were slaves,--men, women, and children, chained in long strings, on the way to be sold in Gaul.
Here were fishermen, also, and boatmen, gathered by themselves, a noisy crew, with loud jokes
which Nicanor heard and did not understand. All about him was a babel of voices and laughter,
boisterous and profane; now and then an altercation, short and violent. It went to Nicanor's
head like wine. Never had he known anything like it; life like this had passed his bleak northern
home entirely by. He drew nearer the groups around the fire, drinking it all in greedily,--new
sights, new sounds, new impressions. His face was flushed with excitement, his breath came
short; so much he found to interest him that he stared bewildered, uncertain what to look at
first. The smell of cooking food was in the air, mingled with the aromatic pungency of many
fires of wood. Horn cups clashed; at intervals hoarse laughter drowned the shouts of teamsters
and the creak and strain of wheels.

And suddenly, under the intoxication of it all, Nicanor found himself speaking in a new, fierce
mood of exultation. What he was going to say he did not know; but his voice fell into the old
measured chant, regular as the tramp of marching feet, which carried through all the tumult
of sound around him. His heart beat hard, his hands clenched, but he flung back his head with
eyes which glittered in the firelight. Those nearest looked on him in amazement, ready to scorn.
Then they held silent, and listened. Others drew closer, to see what might be going on. More
came, and more. Women left men's knees and joined the little crowd, smiling, then with parted
lips of wonder. Nicanor neither saw nor heard them. For the first time in all his life he was
carried beyond himself; in a physical ecstasy he spoke out that which clamored at his lips,
caring nothing for his audience, unconscious of them utterly. And because that is the one thing
which will grip men's minds and compel them, he held them spellbound, in spite of themselves,--until,
abruptly, in a flash, he became conscious of himself, seeing himself, hearing himself. That
moment he lost his hold of them. And he knew it, and stopped short. And for an instant there
was silence.

Then a woman drew a long breath which was like a sigh, and a man muttered something into his
beard. The spell snapped; and like a flood let loose their talk leaped at him. They shouted,
"More!" They would know who he was, and whence he came, and he must finish the tale for them.
But Nicanor shook his head, dumbly, with a new and strange emotion surging through him. He
was frightened at himself, at his feeling, at what he had done. And back of his fear lay something
deeper, something which he could not name,--half exultation, half truest awe, as though he
stood in a presence mightier than he and knew himself for but the tool with which the work
was wrought.

There came a woman, very wonderful, and hot as flame, and put into his hand a broad piece of
silver, looking into his eyes. A man with a broken nose thrust a copper coin into his palm;
others followed. For a moment he stood staring at the fire-lit faces around him like one foolish
or in a trance, with his own face quite white. That he might receive money for his soul had
never entered his head. Then he broke away from them all and ran--ran as though for his life--back
to the house of Tobias, and clambered through the low window and flung himself upon the bed,
laughing and sobbing and shaking, and clutching his coins in sweating hands.

For he had entered into his heritage at last, and the Future had become the Present.

V

The working-place of Master Tobias was a small room half underground, with three windows on
a level with the street. Long boards on trestles were ranged upon three sides, leaving the
centre free; these were much chipped and scarred, and black with oil and dirt. On these tables
were small list-wheels for polishing, formed of circular thicknesses of woollen stuff clamped
tightly between two wooden disks of smaller diameter which left a pliant edge of wool projecting,
held firmly in wooden frames and turned by hand. There were trays of tools for carving and
graving and scraping, and boxes of fine sand and of glass-parchment. In a corner was a grindstone;
and the unclean floor was littered with sawdust and scrapings of bone. Here half a dozen men
were working, in oil-stained aprons of leather. The wheels hummed continuously, with a steady
droning; at intervals the great saw shrieked and grated; from the storeroom a boy brought long
tusks ready for the first cutting.

Men have worked in ivory before ever history began, and of all known arts it is the most ancient
and one of the most beautiful. And no two master-workmen have gone about it after precisely
the same manner, but each has followed his own method of treating the bone, of cutting, which
is a delicate business, of smoothing, and of polishing. At different ages widely differing
means were employed to bring about the same effect. There were many curious things to be learned
in the way of what and what not to do,--how to treat bone with boiling vinegar, and secret
processes of rolling out ivory and joining it invisibly, for the making of larger pieces than
could possibly be cut from any one tusk. Lost secrets, these, to us; and being lost, by many
doubted as having ever been. These things Master Tobias had learned, many years before, from
a workman of Byzantium, where the work was already famous, and far and away ahead of all. This
man, dying, had left Master Tobias all he knew, and tools such as never otherwise could he
have obtained. So that the fame of Master Tobias went abroad through the province; and he did
much work in the way of tablets, diptychs, caskets, figures of gods and goddesses and of Christian
saints. Many a carven comb and jewel-box found its way to some haughty Roman beauty's dressing-table,
the work of Master Tobias's own fat hands. He found good markets for his wares, since Roman
love of bijouterie was strong, and he had few competitors. It was not until the establishment
of Saxon dominion that the art obtained a permanent foothold in Britain; and then it went back
to its first crude beginnings, as did nearly all other things at that second conquest.

So behold Nicanor, bare-armed and in leathern apron, carrying tusks to and fro, cleaning them
after their arrival from the merchants' hands, and giving them out to the workmen as required.
Thus he came to learn the various shades of coloring; how to tell when bone was healthy and
might be expected to take the cutting well, or when it would be apt to crack and split under
the saw. Having come to know the differences in degree, he was put to checking off the lots
as they arrived, according to kind and grade. Mammoth tusks of elephants, sometimes ten feet
in length, weighing close on a hundred pounds, solid to within six inches of the tip; teeth
and tusks of the wild boar, walrus-bone and whale-bone, used for coarser work and filling,--all
these he must tell apart at a glance. For to the untrained, bone is bone.

This was light work, and left him time to watch what others did; whereby, quite unconsciously,
he absorbed much useful knowledge, which was as Master Tobias intended. Then, being well acquainted
with color and texture and grain, he was put to help with the big saw, coarse-toothed, worked
by two men, and had to learn to cut his lengths to a fraction of an inch as required, with
the least possible waste. This took him some time, for a bone is full of twists and turns which
render it liable to be cut to pieces, so that much care is needful. So he went up, step by
step, knowing well each detail before he undertook the next, until at last he began to work
under Master Tobias's own eye. And then, for the first time, having acquired an insight into
the art, was he able to appreciate the skill of the master-workman. And this is the way of
all art from the beginning, and as it must be to the end, since only he who knows may understand.

In long course of time, when many months had gone, came the day when he brought forth his own
first work, a crucifix, the fruit of his own labors, touched by no other hands from first to
last. Himself he selected the tusk, flawless, finely grained; cut it to the block, shaped it,
the upright of the cross, the arms, the rough outline of the Christ upon it. Then, bit by bit,
cutting, cutting, cutting, the figure grew, with rounding outlines, and coherent features.
The straining ribs,--for this effect he cut against the grain, in the way that Master Tobias
had taught him,--the pierced hands and feet, the draped cloth about the loins; slowly it formed
under his eager fingers. He smoothed it with glass-parchment, polished it on the list-wheel;
in the end painted it, with red lips and crimson drops of blood and draping of richest purple.
And he chose that Christian symbol solely because, out of all the subjects offered by Master
Tobias, it presented fewest difficulties in the matter of draperies--greatest stumbling block
to all novices. So it was finished, and became the pride of his life,--but not for what it
was; only for that it was the work of his own hands. Had it been an offering to Apollo he would
have loved it just as well. And when he had finished it, Master Tobias kissed him upon either
cheek, even as he had done once before, and declared that he could die happy, for he should
have a successor to keep his art alive.

But all this took much time; and meanwhile Nicanor was learning many things besides the art
of carving.

When he was in the humor for it, Nicanor could work very well indeed, as he had shown. But
more often than not he was sadly out of humor; and liked nothing so much as to slip away from
the hum and drone of the wheels and the smell of bone and oil, and wander out of the quiet
church precinct down to the busy life at the fords. Here was unending amusement; all day long
he would watch the going and the coming, listen to the uproar of traffic, silent himself or
mingling with the crowds.

Day after day narrow barges went up the Tamesis with the tide from the port of Londinium, deep-laden
with wines and spices, silks, glass, candles, and rich stuffs from foreign lands; with lamps
and statuary and paintings for the great Roman houses; with fruits and grain, vegetables, meats
and poultry. And at the ebb came the barges down again, this time with wool and pelts, smelling
villanously and tainting all the air as they went by. Here also was the river-ford, passable
at low tide, marked out by stakes, and leading from the southern side of Thorney, opposite
the marsh-ford, over to the mainland, where again the road began and stretched away to Londinium.
Here the fisher-folk cast their nets for salmon in their season, for other fish in plenty the
year round, shouting across to the bargemen passing up or down. These, besides the few priests
and servants of Saint Peter's church, and the keepers of the inns, were the only ones who lived
upon the Bramble Isle. All others came and went, and never stayed save for a night.

Day after day came craftsmen, traders of all kinds, merchants with bundles of hides on pack-horses
to be shipped at Dubræ; mimes, actors, musicians, jugglers. Crested-helmeted cohorts, with
glancing shields and bristling spears, splashed through the fords on their way south, stern
dark-faced men from many nations. Long strings of slaves, who then as later formed so large
a part of Britain's export trade, were marched with clanking chains along the highways. Always
was color, life, movement, the clamor of voices, the rumble of wheels; a constant stir, ceaseless,
pulsing, feverish.

It was small wonder, then, that Nicanor, alive in every fibre of his eager being, thirsting
for adventure, should escape from the workshop's confinement as often as might be, to watch
and wonder at the passing show. Also it was small wonder that Master Tobias did not like such
rovings of his pupil, and openly disapproved. With reason he argued that if a man would make
his work worth while he must stick to his bench and tools. But Nicanor, at such times, cared
little whether or not he made that work worth while. At his bench he was restless, fretting
to be gone. Only outside, amid hurrying men and the confusion of arrival and departure, was
he at peace, entirely happy and content. And this was but natural, since young dogs strain
always at the leash, and as his fate had written. But this, Master Tobias, bound heart and
soul to his beloved task, could not understand.

Being both fiery, they clashed often, when dire confusion followed. Upon these occasions, Master
Tobias, purple with wrath, brandished his burin and raved. Nicanor was an ingrate; Nicanor
was a fool and a good-for-naught, who deserved everlasting punishment and would surely get
it. And Nicanor, white-hot within and silent,--two years before he would have screamed with
rage like any other infuriate young wild thing,--laid aside his tools and left the work-room,
his head in air, his jaws set like steel to a thin smile, his wrath blazing all the fiercer
for being dumb. Not until he found himself with a circle of gaping faces around him, hanging
on his words, would his anger cool and his world right itself to normal. Then, his steam worked
off, himself peaceful and serene, he would return to the house for supper, meet Master Tobias's
menacing growls with demure politeness, and forthwith charm him into abject surrender with
diabolical art. So peace would be restored, with the combatants firmer friends than ever--until
the spirit within him moved Nicanor once more. And yet,--for this is as it always happens,--each
fresh quarrel was fiercer than the one before.

It was after one of these passages-at-arms that Nicanor, losing his temper completely, spoke
to Master Tobias as he had never dared speak before. And then, foolishly bound to keep the
last word, strode off in a fume, out of the church grounds, through the huddle of houses and
crowd of passing folk, whose clamor put him yet more out of sorts, and down to the river-ford.
Here he paused, kicking up the earth with the toe of his laced leather shoe, in a very evil
temper, wanting only something to vent his spleen upon. And standing thus, he heard all at
once an outcry behind him, and wheeled, and saw a thing which made him forget his grievance
and consider that after all he was more lucky in his lot than some.

At first he saw only a crowd of men and boys, who jeered and hooted. This was a sight not new;
but in their midst he caught a glimpse of a crested helmet and the black cloak of a slave-driver.
And then the crowd parted, and Nicanor saw a girl, a lean wisp of a thing, with burning eyes
and a gray face framed in straight black hair, with chained wrists and a ragged frock which
slipped aside to show a long red welt across her brown shoulders. The slave-driver held the
end of the chain, his heavy whip tucked beneath one arm,--a squat man with a black and brutal
face and small hard eyes. He was appraising the girl's good points glibly, as though of a mare
to be sold,--her working strength, present perfections, future possibilities. The soldier,
wax tablets and stylus in hand, his back half turned to Nicanor, made notes of what he said,
at intervals throwing in a comment or a question.

"From the north, you say?"

"Ay, lord, born of a Roman soldier and a British wench. A good investment, noble sir, and the
price but small,--only five-and-fifty sestertii,--and that because I give thanks to be rid of her."

"Hath she spirit, fire? I want not a puny, slinking chit."

"Spirit--fire!" the man repeated with a curse. "If that be what you wish, lord, it is here
in very flesh. This young she-devil hath given me as much trouble as three men."

The soldier fumbled for his pouch and counted money into the dealer's hand. The latter counted
it again, spat upon it for luck, made his mark in the Roman's book, and unchained the girl's
wrists.

The Roman laid a hand on the shoulder of his bargain.

"Come, pretty one!" said he, and turned, so that for the first time his face was to be seen.
"Thou'lt get no more blows nor curses, if so be thou'lt do thy duty well."

Leering, he drew her forward. Nicanor cast a glance upon him, and started, and hailed him.
For the Roman was Valerius, the errant one; and what he wanted with a slave girl who had no
beauty, and where he got her price, was more than Nicanor could tell.

Valerius, still with a hand on the girl's shoulder, grinned at him, and said:

"Why, now, friend, 'tis a very good day that brings thee to my sight. Not since I was repairer
of sandals to the good fathers--thanks to thee--have I seen thee, though I hunted the place
over for thee, and mourned right tenderly when I found thee not. And that was near a year ago."

And always, though his speech was pleasant, as he spoke he moved away, sidling, with a certain
stealthiness, a glinting of his narrow eyes from side to side. Nicanor became interested, and
followed a pace. The girl stared at him with desperate dumb eyes.

"Thou hast made a good purchase," he said carelessly, and thought that for an instant the other
showed his teeth.

"Not for myself!" Valerius said humbly. Whether it suited him, for motives of his own, to play
the worthy poor man, Nicanor could not tell. "I but act on behalf of my lord Eudemius, of the
great white villa off the Noviomagus road, this side of Londinium--hey, now! by all the furies,
what is this?"

For the gray-faced girl, with hunted eyes, flung herself suddenly from his hand, crying in
a hoarse croak of a voice:

"Not for him! Not for the lord Eudemius, the Torturer! I am not bought for him!"

Again Nicanor found himself staring, for there was fear and anguish in her voice such as he
had never heard in human tones. And as they looked at her in amazement, she rocked from side
to side, sobbing without tears, and whispering keenly:

"Not for him! Ah, dear Christ in heaven! not for him!"

"And why not?" Valerius demanded. "What hast thou against him that his name sends thee squealing--"

"What against him?" the girl said fiercely. "He tortures--he mutilates--he strips flesh from
living bones, and laughs! Let a slave raise an eyelid in his presence, and he were better dead.
Ay, I know--I know! I will not go to him! I will drown--choke--hang myself first!"

She glared around her as though to seek deliverance where none was. Valerius shook her roughly
by the arm.

"Thou'lt come with me and hush thy whining!"

They had reached a lane between the houses, unpaved, trampled hard and uneven by many feet.
This lane was known then as the Street of the Black Dog; and it ended abruptly at the low stone
wall which here marked the boundary of Saint Peter's land. By the wall, at the head of the
street, was one of the rude stone crosses which were raised at intervals around the walls and
at every gate therein. This was forty or fifty yards ahead of them as they stood. As Valerius
touched the girl she sprang away from him and fled forward up the street, with head thrown
back and torn rags fluttering and her black hair streaming behind her in a cloud. Valerius
shouted and plunged after her, a hand outstretched with clutching fingers. And after them went
Nicanor, his eyes alight with the lust of the chase, the fierce joy of the hunting, old as
mankind itself. As Valerius snatched at a rag on the girl's shoulder, he gave a sharp yelp
of triumph, as a hound yells when its leash-mate has nipped the fox. But the rag tore away
as the girl struggled free. She reached the head of the street, a flying figure of terror,
with the black-browed Roman at her heels and Nicanor racing alongside; staggered, recovered,
stumbled again even as he touched her, and fell forward at the foot of the stone cross, with
a sob like that of a horse ridden to the death, clasping the column with both hands and crying:

"I claim sanctuary! I claim sanctuary!"

Then her head fell forward on her outflung arms, and she lay with thin shoulders heaving to
her fighting breath, and her face hidden in her tangled mane. Valerius stopped, almost in his
stride, all but overrunning her, so close upon her had he been. He shook his balled fist and
cursed her, glaring down upon her, not daring to touch so much as a strand of hair. For she
was in the shelter of holy Church; and few men were bold enough to violate that terrible, wonderful
Law of Sanctuary which even then was beginning to be dreaded and respected, and which high
and low might claim alike. So that Valerius walked in half-circles about her, like a baffled
beast which sees its prey torn from its very jaws; and she lay and shuddered, and Nicanor stood
watching with avid eyes. For as yet he was only a very primitive young animal, with the instinct
of his kind to join with the hunter against the hunted. People began to gather, quickly, clamoring
with question and theory; and upon these Valerius scowled, biting his nails in fury. The girl
raised herself, crouching close beneath the cross, and looked around her like a trapped thing,
crying:

"A priest! Is there no Christian priest here who will tell this man that I be safe from him
in sanctuary?"

Valerius pulled Nicanor to him.

"Go thou and find one," he said harshly; "for while she sticketh to this cross I dare not lay
finger upon her lest I be torn limb from limb by fools. He can but give her up; for she is
bought and paid for, and it is not hers to say whether she finds her master to her liking.
And quick with thee, that I may get her where she cannot fly again."

So Nicanor went swiftly through the nearest gate into the yard of the church, and looked about
him for a priest. And it seemed to him that the more hasty grew his search, the less was it
rewarded, for he was in a desperate hurry to get back and see what followed. Presently, ahead
of him, he saw a priest, whom he knew as Father Ambrose, and he ran to him, shouting:

"Holy Father, a slave hath claimed sanctuary at the cross by the Street of the Black Dog, and
asketh for a priest to confirm her right."

The good Father kilted up his gown, and together they ran through the nearest byway to that
street. And then, quite suddenly, as they reached the end of it, Nicanor felt with a shock
that he must have mistaken the place. For although the cross was there, and the wall, and the
street was the Street of the Black Dog, yet there was no sign of the girl, nor of Valerius,
nor of any of those who had gathered to look on. So that Nicanor turned to Father Ambrose with
a face of pure fright, and stammered:

"But I left them here, upon this spot! Or else I am sure bewitched!"

He looked to right and left and back to Father Ambrose. Father Ambrose shook his head and said
passively:

"It may be that they have arranged the matter among themselves. Let us return."

He walked off, placid and unstirred; and Nicanor touched the cross to make sure that it was
real and no delusion, and looked into the sky and around upon the clustered houses, and spoke
no word at all. But he knew quite surely that the matter had not been arranged.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GARDEN OF DREAMS

BOOK II

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Book II

THE GARDEN OF DREAMS

I

The years went on,--misty Springs, golden Summers, flaming Autumns, Winters stark and chill,
leaving each its tale on the unrolling scroll of time. For in those years the consul departed
from Britain with his forces, and the cities ruled themselves, each in a state of feudal independence,
now warring amongst themselves, now making common cause against their common foes.

Were history to write itself more often with a view to cumulative dramatic effect, there would
be small need for the romance of imagination. One would have history a tale, of swift climax
and excitement, when it is in fact a scattered medley--a battle here, a bit of statecraft there;
here a burning Rome, yonder a new God; and between these the commonplace round of human life
and toil and death, the inevitable dead level of the tale. It is because of the long lapses
between cause and effect, the revolutions slow and of secret tardy growth instead of by fire
and sword, that men turn to Imagination to bridge the gap. Events, grand and stirring, woven,
one believes, into the very fabric of history, are proved to be the pleasant tale of some ancient
ardent romancer, with an eye for dramatic effect. And often it is the bit choicest and most
intimate of detail, binding the chronicle into a dramatic whole, which the iron pick of Research
digs from the heap of bones, and wise men say: "That brilliant hero never lived; this great
battle was but a skirmish; some old monk wrote that--it never happened." Many a glowing jewel,
cherished tenderly and shining bravely through the dust of ages, has turned, in the white light
of knowledge, to worthless glass. So do the old gods perish.

Thus came the chronicle of Saxon conquest down to us,--a brave and lusty tale, scarred with
battles, written in blood, picturing a horde of savage foe-men that swarmed over the Walls
and swept through a blood-drenched land. In fact and deed, it was a conquest of absorption
rather than extermination, dramatic only in its vast significance; a gradual amalgamation of
two forces, in which the stronger, cleaner Norse blood triumphed over worn-out and depleted
Roman stock. As weeds, rank and sturdy, overrun a garden, choking out other plants, so in Britain,
Saxon life overgrew Roman life, inch by inch, almost imperceptibly. The conquest was by no
means bloodless. Towns were sacked and men were slain; here was an explosion, there an outbreak
of lawlessness; but for the most part the change was wrought with deadly slowness and a sureness
which nothing could check.

In these years Nicanor grew tall and strong and long of limb, and his voice ceased to play
him false with strange pipings which had filled him with wrath and dire dismay. He learned
to use eyes and ears as well as tongue; he worshipped at the altars of strange gods, and laughed
at them. He lived from day to day as the birds live, picking up a crumb here and yonder. In
the workshop he spent as little time as might be, restless, not content with what he had, ever
eager for that which he had not, devoured by the curiosity which would lay hands on the strange
throbbing thing called Life, and probe its inmost hidden meaning.

And as time went on, the unrest deepened which possessed him. He was unhappy, and he could
not tell why. He wanted something, and he knew not what. His shyness developed into fierce
aggressiveness, unreasonable, alarming. He prowled continually among the camps, sullen and
quarrelsome, vaguely miserable, and blaming his misery upon all the world. He took to spending
much time, with small profit to himself, among the chained gangs of slaves, where were cruel
sounds and crueller sights. At the hiss and cut of the lash on bared backs and thighs he thrilled
with savage exultation; he took morbid delight in the sight of pain inflicted; and this he
could not at all understand. At this season his tales were all of war and blood and violence,
of treachery and despair. When night came he slept fitfully or not at all, with uneasy half-formed
dreams. And in these dreams he was always searching for a thing which had no name, starting
over the river-ford upon the high southern bank, ending nowhere under gray skies and desolation.
He neglected his carving, waged bloody battles with his fellow workmen, bullied Master Tobias
like any slave-driver. Lonely and shy and sullen, he fought through his crisis by himself,
not knowing that it was a crisis, nor why it had come upon him.

No one took the trouble to help him; he would not have thanked them if they had. Outwardly
he was taller, more gaunt, with a certain rough virility which impressed. Men knew that he
was savage, and baited him even while they feared him; himself only knew that he was miserable,--more
miserable, because he could not understand why he should be so at all. He lived the wild life
of the camps, drinking, brawling, making fierce love with a vague notion that this was what
he wanted, ever finding the fruit of desire change to ashes in his mouth. Always the power
within him grew; and always he despised those upon whom he wrought his magic. For it was nothing
to master these, to do with them as he willed; all his art was lost upon them since they could
not understand.

He was then at work with Master Tobias upon a book-cover for the gospels, which was for Saint
Peter's, and very much interested he was and pleased with his share in it. In the morning he
went to work right willingly, with no thought other than to do as best he might with all his
skill. So he got his tools, and the oil and glass-paper for the first polishing, and, Master
Tobias not having yet appeared, started to go on himself with the bit of scroll he had begun
the day before. Seeing it with fresh eyes after a lapse of hours, it struck him that a change
might be made in one place with much advantage from the design which they had planned. So he
made the change, and was still more pleased. When Master Tobias entered, Nicanor pointed to
what he had done, and said:

"Is not this a better way, good sir? That corner needs balancing, and it is in my mind that
the design should work up this way--" he illustrated with his burin--"and so bring into harmony--"

And then it was that the unexpected happened. For Master Tobias rose from his stool and stood
over him, and said:

"Hast thou changed the design I made?"

Nicanor replied that he had, and wished to show the advantage of his new idea. But Master Tobias
struck his hand aside, and shrill with rage, exclaimed:

"Thou good-for-nothing clod! Thou hast spoiled the work with thy clumsy handling! Why canst
not leave alone what thou dost not understand? Who gave permission to change? Body of me! Must
I stand over thee every hour in the day and switch thy hands for disobedience?"

"But it is not spoiled!" Nicanor protested with indignation.

Master Tobias stormed.

"I say it is! I say it is, and must be smoothed out and changed. And thou'lt stay within and
do it, until all is as it was before. I'll show thee my designs are not to be altered thus
unwarrantably!"

And herein he made a mistake. For when he said "Thou shalt!" Nicanor's impulse was "I will
not!" and as yet he acted upon impulse. Master Tobias could have flogged him if he wished;
Nicanor cared not a rap for flogging. He rose in open rebellion and pushed away his stool.

"Not I!" he said. "The design is false, and I will not put into my work what is not as it should
be!"

He turned and marched out of the room--leaving Master Tobias dumb with astonishment and rage--surly
and savage and very bitter, with his hand against every man because he thought that every man's
hand was against him.

And then, quite suddenly, there swept over him the fierce, insistent longing for change which
wrestles with every man at some time or other in his life; the hot desire to fling himself
out of the rut into which that life inevitably must settle, to encounter anything, good or
bad, so long as it brought a change. And because he was still too young to see that this is
the very one thing which may not be; the one thing of which Fate says: "Come and go, and plan
as ye will, but remember that I hold the leading-strings; for my name men call Circumstance,
and my law is that man shall do not what he will, but what he must,"--because as yet he could
not see this, he left Thorney that day for Londinium, saying no word of his grievance to any
man, with his bundle tied to a stick upon his shoulder.

It was on the road to Londinium that he overtook one journeying in the same direction, who
kept pace with him persistently, let him go fast or slow. This was a venerable man, with a
long beard of white, and wise, all-seeing eyes that smiled and smiled beneath the penthouse
of his brows. Nicanor came to hate him vindictively, with no reason at all, as he hated all
the world just then.

Nicanor stopped at evening by the roadside, and sat down to eat the food he had brought with
him. And this ancient man stopped also, and sat upon a stone near by, and watched him. Nicanor,
with meat and black bread in his hands, glanced up, ready to scowl, and met the old man's eyes,
smiling at him. It was so long since any man had done other than revile him--since one's own
mood will reflect itself like an image in clear water upon the minds of those around one--that
Nicanor was surprised into smiling back, uncertainly, it is true, but still smiling. Then it
was as though a bit of that outer crust of moroseness melted, and left something of his old
boyish shyness in its place. Without stopping in the least to think why he did it, he broke
the bread and meat into two portions, and held out one, in silence, awkwardly, as a child who
does not know whether his gift will be accepted or cast upon the ground.

Now if that old man, perhaps not understanding, had not taken what he offered, turning from
him then, it must surely have been that Nicanor would have shrugged his shoulders, and flung
the food upon the road, and shut up once more within his shell of surliness, with his opinion
of mankind fully justified in his own mind. But whether he wanted it or not, the old man took
his gift, with eyes grave yet always smiling upon his lowering, half-shamed face, and said
in a voice like a deep-toned bell, so clear was it and vibrant:

"I thank thee, my son."

He ate the food, slowly; and Nicanor watched him slyly, as he ate his own supper, fancying
himself vastly indifferent to all ancient smiling strangers. But deep down in his rough shy
heart he was pleased for that he had succeeded in not turning another soul away from him--so
small a thing has power to change the balance sometimes; and when the old man spoke he did
not wish to repulse him, as often. The stranger said, quite as though he had a right to know:

"Son, art sure that it will be well for thee to go to Londinium? Is what thou seekest there?"

Nicanor answered with immense surprise:

"I seek nothing."

"So?" the old man said, and smiled. "Now I thought that surely thou wert seeking something,
and very near to black despair because thou hadst not found it."

And at once, like an echo from another world, there came to Nicanor the memory of a time when
he had wandered seeking for something which he could not name, upon the downs, under gray skies
and desolation. And he did not know if this had really happened or had been but a dream. But
he began to think the old man very strange and rather to be feared. He said:

"Old man, how may you tell that I seek for what I cannot find; and why would it be not well
for me in Londinium?"

The old man's face changed then, so that for an instant Nicanor was frightened. For into it
there came a high far look of utter peace, such as the face of a holy saint who has suffered
all might wear, if he awakened. And while Nicanor stared, not knowing what to think about it,
the old man said gently:

"Son, I may tell by right of having known myself what thou art knowing now. For the faces of
men are as an open scroll to those who have learned to read what is writ therein, and thy story
is upon thee very clear. Thou art in a world of thine own creation, but this world of men hath
also claims upon thee, which thou canst not ignore. And I say to thee, go again to that place
which thou hast left, for to find what thou art seeking, one need not go afield. And when thou
hast found that thing, which is in this world of men, seek thou sanctuary, which is holy love."

Nicanor said: "I do not understand! What hath love to do with it?"--and told of the love that
he had seen, which was all he knew. The old man listened, with unchanging eyes upon him, and said:

"Now truly I see thou dost not understand. This be not love, but a blast of furnace heat which
scorcheth. But some time thou wilt come to understand the meaning of my words, and then shalt
thou find sanctuary and peace. Ay, peace--that is what men cry for in the dark days that are
passing; and they shall seek refuge and find none, and the bitterness of death shall be upon
them. For it shall be said even as by the prophet of Babylon, mother of old evil--'Rome the
Mighty is fallen--is fallen!'"

He swayed gently as he sat, with hands uplifted and eyes no longer smiling; and to Nicanor's
eyes his long white beard and hair were as a mist of silver around his head.

"Thou also shalt pass through the Valley, for the Black Dog of trouble is upon thee; and thou
shalt work out thine own unhappiness and thine own salvation. For thy way is the way of loneliness,
and of misunderstanding, and of the Cross. And this is as it must be, since the price of heart's
blood and heart's desire is pain, and for what thou gainest, thou must pay the price."

He ceased, and his hands fell to his sides and his white head drooped. He leaned to Nicanor,
groping, old, and suddenly very feeble, and whispered:

"Son of men, I too have trod the path which thou art treading now. And I say to thee, seek
thou sanctuary while yet there may be time, for no man knoweth what the end shall be. And when
thou art entered in, all else on earth shall matter nothing, for thou shalt be at peace. This
I know, O Youth, and tell thee, for--I did not enter in."

He rose and laid a withered hand on Nicanor's bent, shaggy head.

"Unto each his own appointed work, and his own appointed fate, and the reward which he hath
merited. Now peace be with thee!"

He turned away and passed onward into the falling night.

Thereafter the world unrolled itself between them, for they never met again.

Wrapped in his cloak, Nicanor lay and stared at the stars above him, and pondered those things
which he had heard. And, because again he could not understand, he put upon them his own interpretation.
But he at once began to make a tale about that old man, with his silver beard and his smiling
eyes; and so he fell asleep, thinking that that was all there was in it.

When he awoke at break of dawn, he was inclined to think the whole a dream. But there was a
new and softer mood upon him, greatly surprising to himself, and the black soul within him
was tamed and stilled. So, in blindly superstitious obedience to the word of the strange old
man, he turned his face away from Londinium and all that he longed to find there, back toward
the life which was his, and the work which was his, and the Isle of Brambles in the fords.

And so came Fate, hard following on his heels.

II

For out of the gray mists of morning came soldiers, six or eight, with ring of weapons and
shuffling thud of feet; and with them was a centurion in command. These overtook Nicanor where
he went slowly back toward Thorney; and the centurion laid a rough hand upon him and bade him
halt. Nicanor turned; but before he could ask angrily why they had stopped him, his wrists
were fast in handcuffs and he was a prisoner in chains. He turned upon the centurion.

"Now what is this? I have done no wrong. I demand release!"

"Demand if it please thee," the soldier said. "But in truth I think thee something more than
fool to let thyself be thus caught doddering by the way. To escape once, and baffle all the
great lord Eudemius's searchers, and then be stumbled upon like any sheep--faugh! I expected
better things of thee!"

"Now have I naught at all to do with the lord Eudemius!" said Nicanor. He explained, carefully,
who he was, and whence he came and to whom he belonged, and they turned a deaf ear to him.
He was the man they sought, even the slave of Eudemius, escaped three days ago, with a reward
out for his capture. This last explained it, but that Nicanor could not know. They insisted
that they were in the right; all he could say and do would not convince them otherwise.

They skirted around Londinium by a street lined widely with tombs, and struck a road leading
south and slightly west, which the men, talking among themselves, named the Noviomagus road.
Ten miles, and they reached the station known by that name, and here took horse, with Nicanor
mounted behind a guard. The road led through the neck of the great forest of Anderida, and
came out again into the open, and they followed it until three hours after noon. Then they
turned aside into a narrower branch road, and so rode easily for another hour until they entered
a grove of ilex trees. To the farther end of this they came abruptly, and saw before them open
country, a broad and gentle slope of hill; and on its summit a great stately house, white-walled,
with outbuildings in the copse around it. In the centre of the blank wall of the front of the
house which confronted them, was a gateway, with gates of bronze, and a porter's lodge. Here
the porter, looking through his wicket, asked their business, and, being told, directed them
around to the rear. So they entered at another smaller gate, and were in a court, open to the
sky and surrounded on all sides by buildings, where slaves were working. This, Nicanor learned
from the soldiers' talk, was in the quarters of the slaves.

And here the centurion found the overseer, and talked with him long and earnestly. The overseer
paid over the reward, and the centurion, as Nicanor saw without at all understanding the transaction,
returned certain broad pieces, which the steward hid away upon himself with a furtive glance
around. The soldier then departed with his men, his tongue in his cheek; and the overseer came
to where Nicanor stood in chains, and looked at him. He was a very fat man, with little eyes
sunk in unwholesome flesh, and was far haughtier than the great lord Eudemius himself. When
he saw Nicanor's face, he began unexpectedly to curse and bluster, and said:

"How now, fellow! Is this a trick thou and thy mates have played upon me, to obtain my master's
gold? Thou art not he who escaped three days ago."

But light had broken upon Nicanor, and he answered:

"So I told them, and so thou couldst have seen if thou hadst looked before thou didst pay--and
receive back--thy master's gold. If this be thy practice, sure thy lord must be the poorer
for thy loyal service!"

But the overseer was talking very fast, without paying heed at all.

"By my head, but this is a scurvy trick to play a man! But now thou art here, here shalt thou
stay in that other's place; for it would go hard with me were my lord to learn that reward
had been paid for nothing--and a slave is a slave to him."

Nicanor turned on him in a blaze of wrath, and the fat overseer, wary of the lean strength
of him, called his men.

"Take him to the armorer's and have put upon him the collar. And on pain of punishment let
no man say he is not the one who went away."

So they put upon him the brazen collar of slaveship, with the name of Eudemius engraved thereon;
and set him to work among the household slaves. And he, being alone, was helpless, and could
do no more than bide his time as best he might.

But at first, when his bonds galled, he stormed, raging in fury at his impotence and the high-handedness
of those who had betrayed him to his servitude. Finding that this brought him but blows and
curses, and was of no manner of good, he calmed down and simmered inwardly. Then--and herein
he surprised himself--he began to take an interest in this new life into which he had been
cast. He had abiding faith in himself, and this is a thing of which every man has need; he
was undergoing a new experience, which at the outset was interesting. When he became tired
of it--well, he would then find means of escape. The work was not over hard, since there were
many hands to lighten it; he was brought into contact with a magnificence of which he had never
dreamed. As always, he kept his eyes and ears open; with his strange, sure prescience that
all he could see and hear and know would be useful to him, somehow, somewhen, he set out to
learn all he could of the life of the great mansion and of those who dwelt therein.

So he found out many things; and one day he found Varia, the great lord's daughter.

The house was so vast that one might lose himself with ease among its many halls and courts
and passages if he did not know its plan. Nicanor, sent one day on an errand to the kitchens,
reached them in safety; and then took the wrong way back, and found himself wandering in a
part of the house new to him. This did not trouble him, for by then he was well known among
the household servants, and was sure of soon meeting some one who would set him right. So,
quite without thought, he pushed open a door at random, and then abruptly lost all his wits
through sheer amazement and delight.

For he was in a garden, beautiful to his eyes beyond all words, with broad terraces and gleaming
marble steps where peacocks strutted; with at one end a fountain banked in a tangle of roses,
where sprays of water fell with silvery splash and tinkle; with marble seats and statues gleaming
from the cool gloom of trees. Around the garden were high walls, vine-hung, with the surrounding
buildings of the villa for a broken background. An untamed profusion of green life rioted here;
pale flowers of night, whose fragrance hung heavy on the air, swam in a sea-green dusk; ivy
clung and clambered along the crannies of gray walls; roses sprawled in a red torrent of perfume
over the yellowing images of old gods and heroes. In one corner a placid lake gazed still-eyed
at the sky, with white swans floating on its mirrored black and silver. Nicanor drew breath
with a quick pleasure which was almost pain; here one might think great thoughts and dream
great dreams. For it was as a bit of that Forgotten Land of dreams, through which all men have
journeyed, though the road to it is lost, with a glamour of mystery and a charm upon it which
held him spellbound.

Out of the velvet shadow into the still evening light, one came toward him, in silence, with
dark hair hanging in heavy braids on either side of her pale face, with dusky eyes and scarlet
lips and jewels that glimmered in the folds of her perfumed robes. He bowed before her, keeping
his eyes upon her face; for though he was a slave, he was first a man, and next a poet, which
means a lover of all things beautiful, and he had never seen a woman like her in all his life
before.

"Who art thou?" she said. And though she was a great lady and the daughter of that noble house,
she was yet a girl, and scarce beyond her childhood, and she drooped her head before his glance.

"Nicanor, thy slave," he answered, but his voice was not a slave's voice.

"Why art thou here?" she asked him. "This is mine own place, where none but I and my women come."

"I crave thy pardon, lady," he said; and told her how he came. In turn, her eyes rested on
his face; and he, meeting them, felt his pulses leap to a sudden shock which sent the blood
back pounding to his heart. For they were wandering eyes, awake and seeing, yet which slept,
with no light of reason in them. So then he understood why the name of their lady was spoken
throughout the household in hushed tones as of one dead; why she was so closely hidden from
the eyes of the world. And she was the Lady Varia,--the lord Eudemius's only child,--the last
of his great house, fair, futile flower.

"Nicanor," she repeated, with a pretty halting on the word. Her voice was low and dreaming,
more tender than a dove's. "Where have I heard that name? Why, Nerissa hath told me thou art
he who telleth tales to the men and maids at evening. See, it is evening now. Wilt not tell
me too a tale? I should like it, for sometimes I am very lonely."

She was far above him as the stars; but she was a woman, and he a man--and the first tale was
told within a garden. She held out a hand to him, and he took it and touched it to his forehead,
and it fluttered in his and then lay still. She led him to a bench by the sleeping lake, a
child whose will might not be thwarted, and bade him tell her tales such as he told her men
and maidens. This the sure instinct of his art taught him he might not do, since those tales
which held them thralled were not for such as she. But he locked his hands about his knee,
and thought an instant, his head flung back and his eyes intent and eager, with an odd shining
deep within them.

So his tale began, in the deep-voiced chant which had rung out by moor and camp-fire, hushed
now, that the peace of the evening's stillness might not be broken. She sat quite still beside
him, her hands clasped childlike in her lap, listening with parted lips. The dusk deepened,
and the golden moon hung over the surrounding wall and flooded the garden in wan hoary light.
The pool lay a lake of silver in a black fringe of trees. The night flowers breathed forth
drowsy perfume, making heavy the summer air. Nicanor's voice rolled on, endlessly through the
scented darkness....

Until Nerissa, the old nurse, came upon them suddenly, clamoring for her charge. Varia sprang
to her and kissed her, with fond coaxing arms about her, so that she relented, since her lady's
will was law. She dismissed Nicanor, and he crossed his arms before his face, and went away
from Paradise.

Varia hid her face on her nurse's shoulder--poor groping soul that found its happiness in things
so small--and said:

"He hath told me tales, Nerissa, so strange and wonderful that never was aught like them in
all the world. I will have him to come again, for I am so happy--so happy! And thou shalt not
tell, for then he could not come, and he is not to suffer for it. Promise, Nerissa, dear Nerissa--it
is but a little thing!"

Thus Varia.

And Nicanor--ah, Nicanor! That night there opened to him a new world,--a world of beauty and
of sweetness and of pain. He, a son of the soil, knowing his roughness, his uncouthness, his
bondage, never giving them a thought till then, had led her by the hand, a daughter of the
stars, for a little space, the barriers down between them. One bit of common ground they had;
beyond it, distance immeasurable and impassable.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Nicanor was once more seeking, always seeking, for something vague and left unnamed;
past the river-ford of Thorney, where ever that night-long search began; and so through all
the world to where a garden lay in moonlight. Here also he would have sought, for he knew that
what he strove to find was waiting.

III

In the garden was a little narrow door, vine-hung, which led to the outer world. No one ever
used this door; for long years it had stood locked, and the key to it was lost,--so long lost
that no one ever thought to look and see that the lock was clean and newly oiled that it might
turn without noise; and the vines which half hid it on the inner side could tell no tales.

Marcus, oldest of all the many household slaves, white-headed and shrunken, and bent with the
toil of years, squatted by the fire in the court of the slaves' quarters, cleaning a copper
pot with a swab of twigs soaked in oil to pliancy. Within the house a feast was in progress,
so that all the slaves were there on service, and Marcus had the fire to himself. He crooned
softly as he scrubbed; and the flames struck gleams of light from the collar of brass about
his neck and the round shining sides of the kettle, as it turned and twisted in his hands.

Presently Nicanor came into the circle of firelight, staggering under the weight of a great
cask upon his back, with sweat-matted hair that streaked his face, and straining muscles. Out
of the zone of light he passed, with only the panting of labored breath and the pad of naked
feet; and the darkness swallowed him. Following came another, also laden; and another, with
a squat stone jar upon his shoulder; and yet another, each giving out every ounce of power
within him, straining like a beast of burden beneath the yoke, that those in the great house
might be served perfectly and without fault. They passed; and from the kitchens came a rattle
of crockery, a hiss of burning fat, the shrill voices of cooks and scullery women.

Marcus flung his mop into the fire, got himself to his feet, and went after them, kettle in
hand. The fire, left to itself, cast wavering gleams upon the dark walls about the court, the
bare trodden ground, the covered well in its centre.

Marcus, seeking Nerissa to give the kettle to her, came to the garden, and stood in the entrance
and looked across it. Further than this even he dared not venture, since all the space within
was sacred to the lord's daughter and her women. Opposite him, across the open lawn, were the
wide steps, white in the moonlight, leading to the tessellated walk above. Beyond this, light
shone softly from Lady Varia's chamber, half screened by the tall slender columns of the gallery.
The two windows, reaching to the floor and giving upon the terrace, were open to the warm air;
in the room the lights were low. Marcus saw suddenly the Lady Varia herself enter the room
alone, walking slowly, like one unwilling or tired. Then he would have gone, lest he be reprimanded;
but even as he turned, the vines along the farther wall rustled, though no wind stirred. So
that Marcus, faithful old watch-dog, drew back in the shadows and waited, thinking no danger,
yet bound to see that all was well.

This was what he saw: Lady Varia moving within the low-lighted room, pausing before her dressing-table
near the tall silver lamp, to remove the weight of jewels which loaded her, aimless, and with
slow uncertain steps like a child too weary to know rightly what it does. And from the darkness
by the wall a figure coming with swift silent strides across the turf to the marble steps,
black as a shadow in the moonlight, lean and lithe and with an untamed shock of hair. The figure
stood upon the lowest step and called softly,--a tender, wordless call which drifted low across
the night and scarcely reached to Marcus's ears. Marcus felt for the knife-hilt at his belt.
But the Lady Varia, within the lighted room, heard the call, and stepped across the threshold
with head raised and hands hanging at her sides like any sleep-walker, and crossed the pavement
where the moonlight lay in silver, and came down the steps, slowly, yet hesitating never at
all. Marcus, watching in wonder and fright and awe, saw the black figure lift her hand and
kiss it; saw the two walk hand in hand across the garden into the dusky jungle of tall shrubbery.
So that Marcus was in two minds,--whether to give the alarm at once, and have the intruder
captured, or whether to go up quietly himself and find out what was going on.

In the end he crept along through the shadow beneath the walls; and presently, as he came,
heard a voice speaking softly, yet with passion. The words were plainly audible, and Marcus
heard, and crept closer yet and listened,--listened to words such as in all his stunted life
he had never heard before; words which stirred forgotten memories of other things once known,
once loved and lost, which he understood in part, and felt more than he understood. He crouched
in the shelter of a wide-leaved plant, seeing only the outline of a black figure on the stone
bench, and a white one half lost in the darkness beside it. The spell of the voice wrapped
him round, deep-toned, vibrant, yet hushed into accord with the stillness of the night. Bent
on capture, he found himself all at once held captive, his mind swayed as grass in the wind
to the sweep of that other's fancy. But abruptly the voice ceased, and the stillness settled
deeper. Marcus heard a rustle of soft garments upon the bench; a low voice saying:

"More--more! Cease not, I pray thee, friend!"

And that other voice, answering:

"Nay, lady; what use? Something is wanting--the words will not come. I know not why, whether
it be in me, or whether--"

"Nay, but I'll have one more. Once thou didst begin to tell of a youth who was poor and lowly,
who lived in the country of the north--"

"Does she, then, remember that?" Marcus muttered, "she, whose mind is water, where an image
fades with the changing light? Eh, thou black-headed slaveling, what miracle hast thou wrought?"

"Wouldst have that tale?" Nicanor asked. "Ay, lady, once I did begin, and dared not finish.
Dare I now? My faith! the trouble will not be for lack of words in this! So then; it was even
as thou hast said. The youth lived in the gray northlands, up by the Great Wall, where gray
hills roll over all the earth and gray skies look down upon them. He tended sheep upon these
hills for his father's lord, and lived upon black porridge and sour bread, and went clad in
a sheepskin. And because he had never known that life held other things than these, it was
all to him as it should have been. But there came a time when this youth went out into the
world. He left his flocks and herds, with his lord's permission, and went down the long road
to the south, past great cities where men lived in luxury and ease and other men toiled and
sweated that this might be. He saw many strange faces, heard the babble of many tongues; and
it seemed to him that each face was seeking for a thing which had no name, and each tongue
was calling for what might not be found. And after a while the youth knew that he too was seeking
what he could not find, and he wondered if it might be that same thing for which those stranger
faces hungered. In the end, he came to a fair house, and dwelt there, among those ones who
sat in luxury and ease and those others who toiled for them. And in this house was a certain
place, of which was said: 'This spot is holy ground. Here none may enter rashly.' But the youth
was rash, and entered."

His voice faltered. On the seat beside him the Lady Varia leaned forward.

"And then?--" she said softly.

"And there he found what he had been seeking," said Nicanor, very low. "What every soul upon
this earth has a right to search for, but not every soul has a right to take. The name of this
thing, O lady of mine, was Happiness; and some there be who call it also Love, and others there
be who know that it is Pain. For in the garden dwelt one fair and pure and holy,--a daughter
of the great ones of the earth. And because she was fair he loved her; and because she was
great he might not woo her; and because she was pure he would not stain her. For she had taught
him to love as a woman may teach a man."

"He loved her?" Lady Varia said. Her voice was low and dreaming under the spell of his.

"Ay, lady of mine, he loved her!" Nicanor said; and in place of the vibrant tenderness of his
voice was a swift fierce triumph. "He loved her, and nothing could do away with that." Once
more his tones were hushed.

"On earth, between man and woman, are two kinds of love, my lady,--one which a man may teach
a woman, which is quick desire and the bitter sweetness of passion, the meaning of a kiss,
the thrill of a caress: and this, when all is said and done, is of earth, and of the flesh;
and one which a woman may teach a man: and this is reverence, and tenderness, and holiness,
and of the spirit. And she taught the youth this kind of love, my lady; taught him to revere
and honor what in other women he had ever held lightly; taught him that because she was weak
she was so strong that nothing he might do could prevail against her. And so--he went away."

"And she?" said the dreaming voice. "Did she love him?"

There fell a pause. In the bushes, close at hand, one strained his ears to listen, a naked
knife gleaming in his hand.

"Ay," Nicanor answered slowly. He turned to her, not touching her, yet so close that he felt
her breath on his sleeveless arm. "She loved him. And she did not know it."

"Not know it?" Varia said. She turned her face toward him, and the moonlight fell full on the
warm whiteness of her throat. "I think she should have known. And then, she being great, and
he so lowly, I think she should have told him that she knew."

"If--if you were she," said Nicanor, and his voice shook, "would you have told him?"

"Oh, I should have told him!" Varia said, and her voice was low and strained. "I should have
said--'I want you to love me! I want you to love me and stay with me always--'"

Nicanor bowed his face forward on his hands. Lady Varia, leaning forward, put her hand upon
his shoulder.

"Were I that woman, I should have wanted to love him if he had been like that," she said, tremulously,
yet very sweetly.

Nicanor straightened up and caught both her hands.

"Ah, no, my lady, you would not!" he said hoarsely. "You would have driven him from you and
been angered beyond forgiveness. You would have hated and despised him, because--oh, don't
you understand, it is the only thing you could have done! If she had said that--how could--how
could he have left her?"

"But why did he leave her?" Varia asked. "Could he not have stayed always in the garden?"

Nicanor mastered himself with an effort.

"No," he said thickly. "Because he was only a man--and some day--it would be more than he could
endure. If he saw that in her sweet innocence she did not realize the temptation she held out
to him, he might--he might have done that which always after he must regret."

He raised her face with one hand and looked at her. Her eyes were closed, her red mouth quivered.
He hesitated, his breath coming hard; then he bent his head and kissed her. As he took her
in his arms, she shivered, crying softly:

"I am afraid! Oh, what is this that you would do!"

But when he loosened his hold she clung to him, murmuring:

"Nay, I am not afraid! I love your kisses. Oh, you must not go as did that youth--always you
must stay within this garden--"

Then Marcus crept from his shelter and stood before them, silent, his knife gleaming in his
hand. Nicanor, lifting his head, saw him suddenly, and started, for this meant death by tortures
no man might name. He sprang to his feet and thrust Lady Varia behind him in the same motion,
so that in the darkness his body hid her as she crouched upon the bench. Marcus snarled, like
an aroused watch-dog, and said:

"Thou more than fool! Dost know what this night's work will bring thee?"

Nicanor, his heart pounding hard, his hands clenched, answered nothing, glancing about him
to see if the old man might be alone. But the garden lay silent. Then he sprang, as a wolf
springs, straight for the old slave's throat, and felled him. Lady Varia screamed,--a quick,
shrill sound which stabbed the night stillness like a knife, and cried:

"Oh, kill him not--kill him not! I pray thee, kill him not!"

"Hush thee, dear lady, or the house will be upon us!" Nicanor exclaimed, his words rushing
through locked teeth. "Get quickly to thy chamber and leave all things to me."

She sped away over the turf, panting with fear and excitement, and flitted up the steps and
across the marble walk and into her room, and closed the window. Nicanor, kneeling on the slave's
chest, gagging him with a wad torn from his own garment, heard the doors shut with a gasp of
relief. He tied the old man's arms tightly with his girdle, trussing him as he had trussed
the carcasses of sheep to be loaded upon mules. Then, having him bound and helpless, he rose
and stood over him, whetting his knife on his hand, with senses keyed to hear footsteps in
every stir of leaf and sigh of wind. But the garden lay always silent under the moon's cold
eye. He spoke to his captive, in a voice which grated just above a whisper.

"I'll not kill thee now, since she begged thy life, old man. But while thou'rt above the ground
there's no more peace for me. Now what to do with thee?"

He stood over his prisoner, motionless in meditation, muttering his thoughts aloud.

"There's no place within the house to keep thee safe. And if that clacking tongue of thine
betrays us, it needs not much to fancy what will happen then. This is what comes to pass when
one serves a brutal master, old man; one must e'en be a brute one's self. I cannot kill thee;
they'd miss thee and start a search--besides, my lady said me nay. Ha, that makes thee squirm?
Ay, she'd be mine for the lifting of my finger--even I, Nicanor, thy master's slave, have but
to say to her, thy master's daughter, 'Go thither!' and she goes, and 'Come!' and she comes
to me as I will. Hearest thou that, old man? Her lips have been defiled by a slave's kisses;
she hath lain unresisting in a slave's arms, to the unending shame of her proud lord father.
And why do I tell thee this, old man? To see thee writhe, thou also, at that shame; to have
thee know the whole, and never profit by thy knowledge. Again I say, I cannot kill thee, but
none the less I'll stop that tell-tale mouth of thine. Look you, it's the choice between my
life and thy eager tongue which even now yearns to blab the tale of my sin and her disgrace.
Therefore--"

He knelt above his captive, who glared at him with bloodshot eyes that glittered in the moonlight.
He tested the keenness of his blade, shook back his shaggy hair, and with a sudden twist removed
the gag from the old man's jaws, choking back, at the same moment, with pitiless hands, the
cry which rose to his lips. Then he bent over, so that the bulk of him hid from the moonlight
his victim and his work. There was a single glint of steel, a convulsion of the thin figure
on the ground; a faint click, and a choked and gurgling cry, instantly suppressed. Then Nicanor
cleaned his blade by driving it thrice deep into the soft ground, and stood up; and Marcus
rolled over and over in agony at his feet, with inarticulate animal cries which scarcely rose
above the silence of the night. Nicanor unloosed his bonds and touched him with his foot.

"Hereafter thou'lt hold thy peace, old man! Neither good nor ill wilt thou ever prate of mortal
more, for I've drawn thy sting. Once thou wert kind to me; twice, in return, did I steal for
thee, and once took a beating from thy shoulders. But thou wert more loyal to thy master than
thou wert friend to me--and in a matter such as this, I take no chances. As I have served thee,
so will I serve any man who crosses me. Now go. Wash thy mouth with cold water and chew pounded
leaves of betel. It will stop the blood."

He left the garden with noiseless strides, a black shadow in the moonlight. Marcus got himself
slowly to his feet, moaning like an animal in pain. He shook his fist at the vanishing figure,
with uncouth and terrible sounds which had once been speech, but even then were none the less
a curse. So, shuddering and crying, he crept from the sleeping garden, where all was still
and peaceful, and where pain and sorrow should have had no place.

       *       *       *       *       *

And never again was that garden so peaceful and so still, for Life had entered it, by the little
narrow door, bringing with it what Life must bring.

IV

Nicodemus, the freedman, one-eyed, short, immensely broad, beetle-browed, and grizzled, stood
in the door of his wine-shop and watched the crowding press of travellers at the marsh-ford,
fore-runners of the throng which nightly descended upon Thorney. Behind him, in the dim recesses
of the smoky shop, his wife, Myleia, hawk-nosed and slatternly, prepared food for the strangers
who would soon be upon them clamoring for bed and board. It was early evening, with a faint
twilight haze still tinged with pink and primrose; but already lights were twinkling here and
there among the clustered houses, and fires had been started on the beach.

There was no more excitement at the ford than was usual at that hour; the noise was no greater,
the confusion no more profound; yet Nicodemus watched it all intently, as though he had not
seen it every night before. His one eye, small and hotly blue beneath its bushy brow, glinted
over the bustling scene; watched a dozen men flogging a horse that had slipped in mid-stream
and fallen with its pack, blocking a long file of animals and carts behind it; followed three
half-drunken soldiers lurching through the shallow water, using their pikes as staves; lingered
over a bloody battle between two carters whose wheels had locked; and suddenly sobered into
gravity at sight of a figure striding through the ford, in worn leathern jerkin and brazen
cap, with a ponderous leaf-shaped sword swinging at its side. At sight of this one, Nicodemus
turned and went within.

The shop, lighted dimly by an evil-smelling lamp, showed small and low-ceiled. Jars of cheap
wine and casks of ale and beer, with an array of drinking-cups of all shapes and sizes, stood
on shelves along the wall at one side. A trestled board, much scarred and hacked, ran down
the centre of the room, flanked by rows of stone stools. Built around two sides of the room
was a series of rude bunks. Over the edge of one of these a head of rough and matted black
hair was visible. An odor of stale liquor, scorched meat, and pungent wood-smoke hung heavy
in the air. Myleia entered, from the kitchen beyond, with a tray of half-cooked beef. Nicodemus
went to the bunk and shook the occupant ungently.

"Valerius is here!" he said. His voice, like himself, was rough and brusque, rumbling hollow
from the depths of his cavernous chest. The figure in the bunk stirred and muttered. Nicodemus
turned his head.

"He'll not sleep this off for another six hours," he growled. "Wife, some water."

The hawk-nosed woman came to his side with a jug of water. As she gave it to him, she put one
hand, gnarled, distorted by work, hairy as a man's, on his broad shoulder, and he put his own
hand up over it. They stood silent, looking down at the black head buried in the dingy blankets.
The lamplight fell soddenly on their faces, throwing them into relief against the murky gloom
of the room. Nicodemus grunted, and without warning emptied the water over the black head.
Myleia laughed huskily. The remedy was partially effectual. The head rose dripping from the
blankets, with dazed and drunken eyes.

"Pull thyself together, Nicanor, lad!" Nicodemus said sharply. "Valerius is coming for thee.
Thou hast overstayed thy leave; he is to take thee back to the house of thy lord. Dost understand?"

Nicanor, answering nothing, sat upright with an effort, pressing his hands to his head, his
body swaying slightly from the hips. Nicodemus put a hand on his shoulder.

"Come!" he urged.

Nicanor looked at him, blinking stupidly. Still he did not speak, but moistened his lips with
a swollen tongue. He began to sink slowly back into the blankets, supine and inert. Nicodemus
sat on the edge of the bunk and passed a long gorilla arm about his shoulders. He motioned
to his wife, who stood watching, arms akimbo, her face expressive of lively sympathy. She went
to the shelves where stood the jars of liquor, returning with a brimming horn cup. Nicodemus
took this, tilted back the heavy head at his shoulder, and started to pour its contents down
Nicanor's throat. Nicanor choked, gasped, and swallowed automatically.

A black figure blocked out the twilight in the door.

"Peace be with ye, friends! What's all this?" said a hearty voice. Valerius entered; saw the
face of the patient, and stopped short.

"Nicanor!" he exclaimed. "Why, I'm come for him. He should have been back last night. Hito--prince
of overseers--hath a black mark against him. Drunk again?"

Nicodemus nodded casually. "Bide a bit, friend, and I'll have him in shape. He's awake now."

Nicanor, slowly recovering his sodden wits, looked at Valerius, recognizingly, opened his mouth
to speak, found the exertion too great, and shut it again. He let his head sink back against
Nicodemus. Presently, with his eyes closed, he said thickly:

"You, Valerius? What now?"

"I want you, my friend," said Valerius, promptly. "It would seem you forget the trifling fact
that Hito commanded your return last night. While you wear the collar, you'll have to heed
the word of him who holds the chain--mark you that. You're in for a flogging as it is--best
not let your case get to higher quarters." He turned to Nicodemus. "Can we get him started,
think you?"

Nicodemus let the shaggy head drop back into the bunk, and rose.

"Let him bide an hour and he'll be ready for you," he suggested. "Which is to say that he'll
be able to walk, with help. Sit you down, comrade--the night's young yet."

He beckoned Valerius with him to the table, with a nod at Myleia. She brought cups and an ampulla
of wine--not from among those upon the shelves. Valerius, with a grunt of satisfaction, pushed
his sword out of his way and sat down. But voices at the door, a shout, a pounding of horses'
hoofs, recalled Nicodemus to his duties as host. He signed to Valerius to help himself, and
hurried to the door.

The twilight had deepened into dusk, through which the fires at the ford glowed redly. The
air, sharp with the evening chill, was vibrant with sounds of preparation for the night. Outside
the wine-shop door a group was gathered,--three men mounted, three others afoot. One of the
latter, a slave, was calling lustily for admittance, beating with his staff upon the door.

"Here, lords, here!" cried Nicodemus in alarm. "What may the lords be pleased to want?"

"Food and drink and a place to sleep if you have it," said one on horseback. His voice was
full and resonant and very deep; the tones of one used to command men. Another added querulously:

"This place is crowded to the doors. Every public-house--Say quick if you can take us in, for
a cloud of vermin is swarming at our heels, ready to snap the food from our very jaws."

Nicodemus's eye, long used to sizing up the purses of would-be customers, lighted to quick
and eager greed.

"All I have is at your lordships' service. You say truly; Thorney is crowded, so that many
will sleep on the naked ground to-night."

There came a group of weary carters along the street, smelling loudly of drink and of the stables,
clamoring at every crowded house for bed and board. Nicodemus saw the disgusted scorn with
which the lord who had last spoken regarded these; saw the other two on horseback turn away
as though contaminated by the very atmosphere of their presence,--an atmosphere none too sweet,
in truth,--and promptly took his cue.

"Nay, friend," said he to the foremost carter, as they clustered close around, hopeful at last
of shelter. "You're too late--I'm full. Best go to the Black Cock--a step further down the
street. There you'll find all you ask for."

"The Black Cock be full also," the man protested sulkily. "You have room to spare! See then,
friend, we'll pay 'ee well."

But Nicodemus, fearful lest his golden geese should fly, turned on him fiercely.

"Get ye gone! I've no time to dicker over coppers. I'm full, I tell you, and that's all there
is to it.--This way, lords."

He led his guests into the house, shouting for Myleia to come and put up the horses. Two wore
the dress of private citizens of wealth; the equipment of the third and youngest proclaimed
him a military tribune. The face of this one, the most noticeable of the trio--a man of some
seven-and-thirty years--was pale and aristocratic, with high nose, thick and level brows, a
thin-lipped mouth at once refined and sensual. And the eyes were the eyes of a son of Rome
the Mighty, dark, keen, dominant, impatient of restraint. Behind them one might read what the
man himself stood for; the epitome of centuries of culture, of severest physical training and
the restraint of the discipline of the mightiest machine the world had ever seen; and, at the
same time, of equal centuries of indulgence and luxury and vice--a curious mingling of ascetic
and sybarite. Of the other two, one bore a marked resemblance to the soldier, with the pride
and passion of the younger face tempered by years to a mellower dignity. He was richly dressed,
and on his thumb was a large and heavily chased signet ring. The third man, who at first spoke
little, keeping his eyes cast down, was small and shrivelled, with a scholar's face and a distinct
cast in the right eye.

These three sat at the table, whence Valerius had hurriedly removed himself and his wine, and
were served obsequiously by Nicodemus and his wife with the best the house afforded. For a
while they ate and drank in silence. Then the tongue of the small old man, loosened by the
wine, began to wag. He spoke abruptly, in a voice husky and somewhat over-precise.

"I had not looked to see thee here, friend Marius. Thy father made no mention of thy coming."

"He knew nothing of it," the young tribune answered shortly. "There was no time to send word
from Gaul--where I have been stationed these last two years--that I had been ordered into Britain.
And when I arrived, he was travelling, and my letter did not reach him."

"He came with his legion, which is that one sent hither by the proconsul Ætius of Gaul, at
the request of the governors of the cities to drive out the barbarians from Britannia Secunda.
And that was nine months ago," his father explained.

"So; I see. It was gallant work of gallant men," said the old man with effusion. The soldier
shrugged his broad shoulders in an indifference half contemptuous. "And thou hast remained
in Britain since thy comrades sailed back to Gaul?"

"The commander left certain men to guard against further outbreak," the father of Marius explained,
patiently. "And my son is of that number. But the trouble seems thoroughly subdued, and they
have been ordered to return to Gaul."

"I have applied for leave by the physicians' orders, having been wounded during the affair,"
said Marius. "Myself I know that I am fit for service, but I am constrained--" Again he shrugged.
"A campaign hath been started in Gaul against the Huns who threaten us, and you may guess if
I like the prospect of missing it. Until my leave is granted, I am here to make arrangements
for a vessel for my cohort. After, I shall remain for some weeks; it is long since my father
and I have been together."

"And those weeks, I doubt not, you will spend together at the house of Eudemius," the old man
persisted, and received a curt grunt of assent. Undeterred by lack of enthusiasm of his hearers,
he settled to the discussion of a new subject.

"It is years since I have seen him, but men say that he is greatly changed, since the physicians
have failed to mend his daughter's misfortune."

The soldier, staring moodily into his horn cup, made no sign of having heard. His father poured
himself more wine, and nodded. The old man added, with a chuckle and a senile attempt at jocularity:

"Marius, boy, thou shouldst but see her! Not a goddess of Rome herself could equal her. Eh,
but she's the morsel for thy lips, she and her fat lands and the gold of her father's coffers.
And it were high time thou shouldst think of marriage."

"I care nothing for damaged goods," Marius interrupted. "And as for marriage, that may well
wait awhile."

"But since thou art to visit the father, it is but meet that thou shouldst become enamoured
of the daughter, for the time at least. What else could be expected of thee?" quavered he of
the cast. He poured himself another cup of wine; his hand, none too steady, shook, and the
liquor spilled. Hereat he wept, dolefully, and forgot his discourse on the duty of guests to
their hosts' daughters. Unheeding him, the others talked quietly, in low tones. But he, bound
to hold the centre of the stage, remembered suddenly what he wished to say, and began again.

"My boy, thou couldst have her for the taking!"

Marius, his speech with his father interrupted, eyed him with a sort of grim patience, waiting
until he chose to cease.

"A fit morsel for thy lips," the garrulous one repeated. "I speak of what mine eyes have seen.
What if the mind be wanting, so long as the face is fair? Many a man hath found too much mind
a sorry investment in a wife. And she's fair enough! By Venus, yes! Eyes like clouded stars,
midnight tresses, a bosom whiter than milk--"

Marius laughed scornfully.

"Maybe so! But so have a thousand others, with sense thrown in. Why so keen to set me after
her? Let the poor fool be. I tell you I'll have no damaged goods. If I marry at all, by the
veil of Isis, the price I must needs pay will be high enough to warrant me in asking the best
in return."

Nicanor, hearing the murmur of voices, raised his head slowly and looked over the edge of the
bunk. He saw Valerius in his corner, sound asleep, and wondered what he wanted there. The old
man sat with his back to him, but the face of the soldier was in plain sight. At him Nicanor
stared, stolidly, without interest, and let himself drop back into the blankets. But the remedy
of Nicodemus was beginning to have effect. By degrees his head became clearer; objects in the
room no longer jumped startlingly when he set his glance upon them; his thoughts became more
connected. There had been a scene in a garden--her garden. Marcus had come; had discovered
him with her. His heart stood still. What had happened then? Had he killed the old man? He
recalled the truth with a gasp of relief which yet was mingled with apprehension. But afterwards?
There came to him, slowly, a memory, vague and confused, of a weary wandering through endless
night, torn by temptation and desire, raging with defiance of the consequences of his rashness,
consumed by fever that ran through his veins like fire and dried the very heart within him.
What had become of Varia? Of Marcus? How much had been found out? Sudden blind fury at his
impotence in the face of supreme and arrogant power possessed him. The brazen collar about
his throat burned like a band of fire. He raised his hands to it, and let them drop. What could
he do--a slave? After all, what did it matter? Nothing mattered then, save Varia. He lay devising
ways and means of seeing her again, since this he was bound to do, though gods and men might
say him nay. The voices at the table droned on, as from a great distance, and Nicanor lay and
listened. They spoke of some woman. No name was mentioned, but the description of her, as it
fell from the old man's maudlin lips, sent his heart pounding. So might be described another
woman, who for him held life and death and all that lay between. The voice of Valerius at his
ear made him start.

"Awake, lad? Art better? So, then; it's time to start."

Nicanor got out of the bunk. Once on his legs, he discovered that he was by no means steady.
The three at the table ceased talking as he rose, more from prudence than curiosity, it seemed.
The soldier glanced at him, with keen eyes, indifferent at first, lighting to faint professional
interest, that noted every point of bearing and physique; the lean flanks, swelling upward
to muscular torso and the shoulders of a chariot-racer; the knotted muscle of forearm and back;
finally rested on the broad collar circling the brown massive throat.

"That fellow would look well in the ranks," he observed casually. His father glanced at Nicanor
as one might at a dog whose good points were under discussion, and nodded. Marius added, continuing
what had gone before:

"You can't kill a man with hard work if you know how to handle him. I tell Fabian that these
brushes with barbarians at least serve the purpose of keeping the men in condition."

His father sighed.

"Always thou wert a hard taskmaster, Marius," he said gently. "It may be that thou drivest
the men farther than thou knowest. Men are not brute beasts, that they must be goaded even
to the breaking-point."

"Most men are, my father," Marius returned. "Most men will do what they are made to do, no
more. As for driving them to breaking-point, I think you need not fear for that. Men need a
lot of killing."

He fell into silence, staring into the amber depths of his cup of wine. His father glanced
at him, sighed once more, and turned away. Nicodemus and Myleia hurried in to prepare fresh
beds for their lordly guests. Valerius and Nicanor went out into the night.

The keen air struck Nicanor like a dash of cold water. He drew a deep and grateful breath of
it, and felt revived.

"How long have I been from the house?" he asked, with intent to fill in the blank spaces of
his memory.

"It is the second night," Valerius answered. "When you asked Hito for leave, he gave command
that you return last night."

"When I asked Hito--" Nicanor repeated. He had no recollection of having asked the overseer
for anything.

"You did not come, so, being angry, he directed me to search for you and bring you back for
a flogging. What more was in store, he did not say."

Nicanor shot a glance of swift suspicion at him through the darkness.

"What more should there be?" he demanded.

"Why, how can I tell?" Valerius parried. "Imprisonment, maybe, for a day or so.... Though,
in truth, as the offence is repeated by some one or other every day, he can have no excuse for--"

"Well?" Nicanor said impatiently, as Valerius paused.

"Treating you as he would like to do," the latter added soberly. "Hito hates you, my friend."

Nicanor shrugged his shoulders. This tale of an overseer's feelings was not what he had feared.

"Oh, that!" he exclaimed, and snapped his fingers. "If that were all I had to think about....
Valerius, tell me this. Each time I have seen you I have wished to ask. How comes it that you
are in the service of the Torturer?"

"I got tired of the church," Valerius answered simply. "The good fathers were very good, but
me they singled out as the black sheep of all the fold, and it was more than could be endured.
'What religion have you?' says Father Ambrose. 'None at all,' says I, 'and want none.' So he
nearly wept, and told the others, and they agreed that I was fit food for the fires of hell.
So they gave me their blessing, and told me Holy Church was better off without me, and there
were no more sandals to be repaired. Then I fell in with Hito, and he took me into the service
of our lord. How hath it been with you?"

Nicanor told of the manner of his capture, and Valerius laughed.

"Clever!" he chuckled. "But tell me truth, lad. Is not this a long sight better than the work-room
of that fish-faced brother Tobias? Are we not hand in glove with the great ones of the earth?
Do we not know them, in all their parts, far better than those of their own world could ever
do, since we serve them?"

"Ay," said Nicanor. "That is so. And yet, after all--when I was in the workshop, if the bone
cut straight, and if there was what I liked for supper, I was happy, and wanted nothing more.
Now--"

"Now," said Valerius, dropping into his old familiar tone, with an arm thrust through Nicanor's--"now
thou hast found that there are many other things in life which a man may want. Is it not so?"

"Ay," Nicanor said again. "That is so also."

V

In the slaves' quarters, next morning, Nicanor took his flogging without a change of face,
while Hito, the fat overseer, looked on and grinned in evil glee. But Nicanor had so much worse
than flogging hanging over him that he scarcely felt the blows, and merely grinned back at
Hito, with insolent bravado, until the latter was cursing with rage. Then, being set to grind
sand for the floors of the kitchens, he made an opportunity to seek out Marcus. But Marcus
was nowhere to be found. Nicanor questioned, cautiously; no one had seen him. Apparently, no
one cared what had become of him. He might have been rotting in sewer or drain-hole for all
his fellow-slaves seemed concerned. To save his life Nicanor could not have told just why he
wished to find the old man, since the farther he and Marcus were apart, the better it would
be for both.

Foiled in his search, he went back to work again. Many times before his labor was ended, he
passed the closed door of the garden where Varia dwelt; and each time his heart beat hard and
his face flushed and his brown hands trembled. To know her so near, and not to see her; to
be conscious of her in every throbbing pulse, and not to seek her; not to know whether she
was safe and unharmed, or whether blame for his rashness had fallen, through her father's wrath,
on her--

"Last night I could have gone to her had I not chosen to make myself a drunken swine," he said,
and caught himself up in fear lest he had spoken the words aloud. "Did she look for me--wait
for me?--for I'll warrant she has not forgotten. But to-night--to-night--"

He caught his breath, his eyes lighting.

"I'll make her confess she loves me! I'll have the words from her own lips--words, ay, and
kisses also! Ah, lord, noble lord, mighty lord! what wouldst say to know that for the lifting
of a slave's finger thou standest to lose what all thy gold could never buy thee back?" His
passion died before it had fairly gathered force. He stood an instant, motionless and shaken,
drew a hand across his eyes, and returned to his labor.

All that day Hito worked him mercilessly, in a mean and entirely comprehensible spirit of revenge,
until, being not fully recovered from his drinking-bout, his brain was reeling and he could
scarcely keep his legs. At sunset he took his share of the rations dealt out nightly to the
slaves, but although he was faint from emptiness the sight of the food turned him sick. He
went to the cell where he, with others, slept, and dropped like a log, exhausted in mind and
body. Here he lay until Hito's whistle summoned the household slaves for emergency service.
Not to obey meant punishment, but in his present state Nicanor cared little for that. He lay
listening to the sound of hasty feet and voices as slaves passed to and fro across the courtyard
to the house, expecting momently to be called to account for his delinquency. But no one came
to him, and by and by he slept.

Waking, he found the world dark and peopled with restless, moving shadows. There was still
much hurrying here and there, and from the kitchens came strident sounds of nervous activity.
Thither Nicanor started, across the unlighted court, stopping on the way for a cup of water
at the well. As he put down the dipper and turned to go, he ran into some one bound in the
same direction, who staggered under the shock with an exclamation, and dropped a dish, which
crashed into fragments on the ground. At the same instant Nicanor caught her by the shoulder
and steadied her; in the darkness he could not see her face.

"It is broken!" she exclaimed. "I must go quickly and get another."

"It was my fault," said Nicanor. "I will go."

"There is no need," the woman answered.

She started back, Nicanor keeping perversely beside her.

"What is happening?" he wished to know. "Is there a feast made in the house to-night?" He could
feel that she was looking at him in surprise.

"You do not know? Two strangers came to-day, with news of importance, men say, for our lord.
There be strange things told: they urge that our lord will go back with them to Rome. The old
man was indisposed when he arrived; his servant tells that he is not over strong."

She hurried off, and Nicanor stood still, repeating stupidly her words.

"Our lord will go back with them to Rome. Then she will go with him. But that is not possible.
His home is here--why should he leave it?" At once he was filled with feverish anxiety to find
out what truth there might be in the gossip.

He invented an errand which would take him within the house, to see if by chance Lady Varia
might be among the feasters. Since she was kept in strictest seclusion by Eudemius, he was
quite sure of not finding her, but his mood of perversity still held. On the way he met a Saxon
slave, Wardo, a fair-haired, blue-eyed fellow, hurrying toward the atrium with a pierced copper
bowl packed with snow for cooling wines. Him Nicanor stopped with a question.

"Hast seen these strangers, Wardo? Whence come they, and who have been bidden to meet them?"

"They and our lord sup alone," Wardo answered. He shifted his bowl from hand to hand, and blew
on his fingers as though it burned instead of freezing him. "The dancing girls have been commanded,
and wine is to be brought. Much hath been brought already. And Nicanor, hark 'ee! Egon, who
pours the wines, saith that the talk is strange talk for feasting. They urge that our lord
go back with them to Rome--wherefore, think you? They speak of Rome, and Londinium, and the
legions from Gaul, and of losses of ships and money, until one's head rings. What might it
be about? Think you that we go to Rome? I should like to go to Rome, if it be anything like
Londinium--"

"We go to Rome?" Nicanor repeated. "Say rather that we should be left here to die like chained
rats that the trainer hath forgotten."

He went off; and watched his chance and slipped away outside, and stopped before the little
garden door. He put his hand upon it, drew back, and glanced over his shoulder as though for
possible pursuit. His face held a curious mixture of doubt and boldness, hesitancy and desire.
Only a moment he paused; then opened the door with a silent key, slipped inside so that the
vines scarcely rustled, and closed it without noise.

No one was in the garden. His eagerness took fire at the delay; lithe and silent as a mountain
cat he crossed the open space of lawn, mounted the steps of the terrace, and gained the windows,
whence came no light from the tall silver lamps within. And here he discovered that the windows
were closed. With all his boldness he dared venture no further. Baffled, yet keener set in
his determination for being thwarted, he drew back into the shadows and waited.

From where he stood by the marble bench no sound came to him save the chirring of insects in
the grass, the squeak of a bat or twitter of a sleepy bird. One might never have thought the
place to be in the heart of a house whose inmates numbered five hundred souls and more, so
still it was, so seemingly remote from all human noise and tumult. The combined effects of
the silence and the perfume of the many night-blooming plants made him drowsy; also his head
was light from want of food. Every clump of bushes seemed suspicious; he began at last to hear
footsteps in every sough of wind and creak of branch. But he set his teeth grimly, bound not
to be beaten, fighting hard against sleep and overwhelming weariness. Yet what it meant for
him should he, in spite of himself, fall asleep and be discovered there by Lady Varia's women,
none knew better than he.

"She will come! She must come!" he muttered, and kept himself awake with that.

And she did come. After untold hours of waiting, during which he alternately dozed and started
into uneasy watchfulness through sheer force of will, she came to him out of the scented darkness,
walking slowly, with hands hanging straight at her sides, a slim figure dimly white. So suddenly
did she appear that at first he did not move, believing himself still drowsing. But she stopped
before him; and at once the world fell away from him, leaving him thought and memory of nothing
but that she had come to him at his call and that they were alone together.

"I am here," she said, very low. "Didst call me, or did I dream it? And why?"

"Because I wanted thee!" he answered, and caught her hands and kissed them. His own hands shook
as he drew her down upon the bench beside him; he dared not trust his voice to utter what was
on his tongue. She sat beside him, leaving her hands in one of his, and he slipped his arm
about her, unrebuked. In the darkness he could not tell whether or not her eyes were on him.
Presently she spoke.

"Hast thou not a tale to tell to-night? Last night thou didst not come, and I was lonely. All
the night I did not sleep. Now I am tired--so tired...."

Her voice drifted into silence. She yawned, quite openly, like a sleepy child, and leaned her
head slowly back against his arm. Nicanor quivered from head to foot, and tightened his clasp
about her. It was these innocent tricks of hers, these child ways, wholly trusting, without
thought of guile, that made him mad for her, tempted him almost beyond endurance, and yet,
in their very innocence, made themselves her strongest shield. She knew nothing, with that
child's soul of hers, of the passion which shook him at her touch, which sent his hands hot
when her fingers fluttered into his, and set his heart pounding in heavy throbs when, as now,
she leaned her cheek above it. How should she know? Her mind was a child's mind, unawakened,
even though her body was a woman's body, fragrant cup of the mystic wine of life, abounding
in sweet allurements of which she knew not the smallest meaning.

"I would have another tale!" she said at length, imperiously, and raised her head to look at
him in grieved surprise that her command should be so slighted. But Nicanor drew her back to
him, lifting both her cool palms to his burning face.

"Ah, lady mine!" he said, "the only tale I have to tell thee, I may not utter. None other have
I to-night; my heart is big with it, my brain reels with it, but my lips must e'en be dumb.
And yet--I know that thou wouldst listen; that what I might say would echo in thy heart forever
and a day. Then why should I not say it? Why, if the thorns be not strong enough to guard,
should I not pluck the rose?"

He gathered her more closely into his arms, drinking the perfume of her hair, the warmth of
her, into every fibre of his being. She lay quiet, her head thrown back against his shoulder,
great eyes wide open in the darkness, resting easily as a bird in its nest against his strength.

"Because the rose is too fair and fragrant for common hands to pluck." Nicanor's voice grew
to a hushed intensity, as though he argued with himself a point gone over many times before,
yet never wholly gained--what higher manhood there was in him contending with temptation innocently
offered, striving against lawless passion and desire. "Now it is but a half-blown bud, this
rose, knowing nothing of the perils which beset all roses in all gardens, lady mine, hiding
the golden heart of it in shy, half-open leaves. Some day a high-born stranger will enter the
garden, and the gardener will point to this his rose, and say: 'Look you, friend, at the fair
flower I have nurtured here. I have tended it well, kept from it frost and blasting heat, watered
it, let the sun to shine upon it. Now it is ready for the plucking--take you it.' Then the
stranger will pluck the rose, and will watch it unfold, petal by petal, until all the beauty
of it is laid bare. And gardener nor stranger will ever know that one was in the garden there
before them, with his hand upon the rose's stem and his breath upon the rose's heart."

Varia stirred and brushed a hand across his lips.

"But that is not a tale!" she said plaintively. "Or if it be a tale, it is a sad one. The poor
rose! It may be that it wished to stay within the garden, and not be plucked to fade away and
die. I had not thought of that before! Never will I pluck a rose again; I will let it live
where the gardener plants it. I thought it pretty to pluck them and smell them, and watch the
leaves all fall; I did not know I killed them! Sometimes I think that people do not know when
they kill roses. Now tell another tale, I pray thee! Tell that tale of when thou and I lived
long and long ago, and of how we met in that other world which is gone. That tale I love the
best of all."

"Of how we met--" Nicanor repeated absently. Again his mood had changed, as always in her presence.
When away from her, with but the memory of her face, her innocent wiles, her passiveness under
his caresses, passion had its way with him, blinding him, rendering him desperate, careless
of consequences. But when with her, that very innocence of hers wrought its own spell upon
him, taming and stilling him with an awe which he but half understood. Curiously, this chastened
mood left him invariably sullen and surly, after the manner of a beast which sulks at having
missed its kill.

"Of how we met?" he said again. "So then. Once thou and I lived very long ago. Ages and ages
ago it was, when the world was young, and only the moon and the stars were old. None walked
upon the earth save we two, and the world and its beauty was for us alone. Dusky forests covered
all the land, where strange birds sang and great flowers grew. Wild beasts roamed these forests
with us, but we walked among them unafraid, for they knew not that they could harm us. Beneath
the sunken light of old scarred moons we wandered hand in hand; and day by day I told that
tale to thee I dare not tell thee now, and there was none to hinder me.

"Canst dream of a world all happiness, my lady, a world without shadow of sorrow or cloud of
care, with nothing but happy sunshine and the songs of birds? That world was our world. And
in it we were free, we two, free to wander where we would, free as the winds that called us.
Who may know freedom as do those who walk in chains? We knew not then the measure of this our
freedom, for we had known no thraldom of flesh nor spirit. Therefore the high gods decreed
that we should be brought to know the greatness of their gift, by losing it; that in our lives
to come we should be bound, and bound remain until we knew what we had lost. Thy bonds sit
upon thee lightly, yet in thine eyes I read that they are there. And I--I am learning fast
what freedom means. In the shade of great trees which upheld the very floor of heaven we rested,
thou and I, and saw the wide earth smiling in warm golden noons. It was then thy hands first
learned to cling to mine"--he raised her hands and kissed them--"it was then thy head first
leaned above my heart--ay, even so long since, in the beginning of the world. Down all the
after ages it hath been the same; somewhere, somehow, we met; and each time of our meeting
there came to us a memory of dear dead days long gone, forgotten until a breath from dim gardens
where we wandered blew to us from the past. Oh, but those days were long, each one a jewel
of flame and azure, strung on the golden chain of Time; and the nights were long, and warm,
and clear, and perfumed as thy hair. Our food was fruit and the nuts I gathered; our wine the
waters of clear brooks which thou drankest from my hands. Ferns, deep and fragrant, made our
couch."

He stopped abruptly.

"As my soul liveth, I can tell no more!" he said, and his voice was shaken. "Sweet lady o'
mine, urge me not, for thine own sake! Thou dost not understand--how shouldst thou? Any tale
I'll tell thee--any tale save a tale of thee and me."

"That is the tale which I will have," said Varia, drowsily.

Nicanor smothered an exclamation.

"Child, canst not see that my hands tremble, that I burn with fever, and am scarce master of
myself?" His tone quickly changed and softened. "There, then, I will not frighten thee! Only
ask me not to try my strength beyond its limit with that tale I taught thee to love and long for--"

"Then I shall go," said Varia, with no smallest understanding of his cry, and rose from the
bench. But Nicanor was quicker than she. He caught her hand and turned her half around to face him.

"Nay, I'll not let thee go!" he said unevenly. "The hour is mine, and the night is mine--and
I cannot let thee go!"

She sat down once more upon the bench, passively submissive as a child to its elders' will.
Nicanor dropped on one knee on the grass beside her, his arms across her lap, his hands prisoning
one of hers. His deep voice lowered to a note of lingering tenderness that thrilled like the
strings of a harp gently touched.

"Oh, light of all the world to me!" he said softly. "If I but dared tell thee of the thoughts
that are mine, and the madness that is mine, and the punishment for them that is mine also!
Wouldst understand? Ay, truly, I think so! For I'd tell it so that the deaf trees, that whisper
always and hear not--ay, and the very winds of heaven, could not help but know the meaning
of my words."

She put her free hand to his face, upturned to hers, and stroked it.

"Thou poor one!" she said with gentle pity. "Is it that thou art ill to-night? Thy face burns
hot, like fire. Is all well with thee?"

Nicanor suddenly bowed his head forward on her knees.

"Nay," he answered huskily. "It is not well."

She sat a moment, her hand resting idle on his rough black head.

"I am sorry!" she said then, simply. "Is there--is there aught that I could do? When my lord
father is ill, he will have me sometimes to stroke his head, to ease the pain. Wilt thou that
I should stroke thy head also?--Nay, do not move! See, I will touch it so, and so, and soon
thou shalt be cured."

She bent over him, as he leaned against her, her soft hands slowly stroking his forehead with
touch as light as the brushing of a rose-leaf. Nicanor stood it as long as he could. Then he
crushed her hands in his, and kissed them passionately, many times, and rose to his feet.

"Dear little hands, that would cure all the pain and sorrow of the world an they might! They
have healed me, sweet, and made me sane--ay, and wounded deeper than they healed! Go now, quickly,
dear heart, while I have courage and will to say it."

"But--" she began, hesitating. He interrupted, fiercely.

"Go, child, go! Or I'll not give thee the chance again!"

"But thy head--" she persisted.

"It is cured," he answered. As she turned away, surprised at his sudden brusqueness, he took
a step beside her.

"Hast heard that thy lord father will leave Britain for Rome?" he asked abruptly.

"Leave Britain? But it is not so!" she exclaimed. "Why should he do that? He would not leave
without me, and I--I will not go. I will stay here; I will not go to Rome! And thou,--" she
came closer to him,--"wilt thou come to-morrow and tell me tales? Last night I waited for thee,
and when thou didst not come I was lonely. Do not let me be lonely again, I pray thee!"

Nicanor looked at her for a time.

"Ay," he said finally, in a hushed voice. "I will come."

She turned from him and started across the grass. He watched her, and his hands slowly clenched.
She looked back once over her shoulder, her face glimmering white in the starlit darkness.
It was enough. In a stride he was after her; in a heart-beat she was in his arms, her face
hidden against his breast.

"I love thee--I love thee!" he whispered hoarsely. "Heart of mine, that is the tale I dared
not tell! A tale of three words, three little words, which yet is longer than any tale that
ever was said or sung. Dost understand, dear heart, what that must mean to thee and me?"

She drew herself away from him with her hands against his breast.

"You love me," she repeated, not questioningly, but as one making statement of a fact. "Ay,
I understand that. Why should I not?" Her voice grew tenderly solemn. "'Where thou art, Caius,
there am I, Caia; and thy people shall be my people' ... that is when one loves."

Nicanor cut her short with an exclamation.

"Ay, that is when happy other men and women love!" he said bitterly. "But not for such as thou
and I. For us, beloved, it means that where thou art, there I may not be; that all men, all
circumstance, would strive to part us, since the world will have it that high blood may not
mate with lowly."

"But why?" she asked. Her voice was wondering. "If two people love, is not that enough?"

"'If two people love,'" Nicanor repeated. He drew her back into his arms and turned her face
upward to the stars and to his eyes. "Beloved, I have said I love thee with a love that must
last through life and death and all that lies beyond. So, since I am what I must be, I have
placed my life within thy hands for good or ill. Thou sayest 'If two people love.' Dost thou
then love me?"

She raised her head and looked full at him.

"Ay, surely I love thee," she answered. "Thou hast told me tales so strange and wonderful that
none were ever like them in the world before. And thou hast been kind to me, nor ever scolded,
nor called me fool, as does my lord father when I have displeased him. Does not one always
love those who are kind to one? It is the least that one can do, I think. And yet ... I do
not know. What is this love thou hast?"

"The most terrible thing in the world, and the sweetest," Nicanor answered, his eyes on hers.
"It is a chain that binds life to life, and the links of the chain are drops of heart's blood.
It is pain from which one would not seek relief. Men have called it a flower, beloved, but
it is no flower, for flowers wither in a little space, and die, and love hath eternal life.
Ay, for it is eternal; and death, to it, is but a moment in the dark."

Varia caught her breath with a smothered sob.

"Ah, but I do love thee when thou talkest so!" she whispered. "Often I cannot understand thy
words, but I can feel them, here,--" she clasped her hands above her heart,--"and sometimes
they make me glad, and sometimes sorry, and sometimes they frighten me, and I do not at all
know why. But always I long to hear more. They make me to want things I have not got, to know
things I do not know, for I am very foolish. Oh, thou wizard of the silver tongue!" She raised
both hands to his temples, and he could feel that her fingers shook. "Play not with me for
the sake of thy sport, I pray thee! Ay, I am very foolish,--I know it,--for I may not understand
how such things be; but thy speech leads me as a nurse leads her child by the hand, and I am
afraid, because I cannot understand whither thou wouldst have me go."

"Play with thee! Beloved, it is no play to me," Nicanor answered. "I'd give thee all my life
and soul, as I've given thee my heart, could I but keep from thee a moment's fear or sorrow."
He bent his head and kissed her snowy eyelids. "Whatever God or gods there be that men may
pray to, may they have thee, lady mine, in their holy keeping. Whoever they may be, I give
thanks that this night they guarded thee--or was it the veil of thine own white innocence around
thee?--for this night hath a beast been held at bay."

He let her go, and stood watching hungrily as she slipped away from him across the grass. Over
the surrounding walls of the villa a faint gray mist came stealing. The song of the insects
had died, and the world hung silent, awaiting the mystery of the day. The trees and bushes
of the garden massed themselves into denser shadow against the tinge of ghostly light. From
somewhere, far away, a cock crew, and another answered.

Nicanor listened until the faint click of a closing window reached him. Suddenly he buried
his face in his hands and stood an instant motionless, a dark and sombre figure in the gray
loneliness of dawn. Before the light had gathered strength for him to be more than a moving
blot among the shadows, he pulled himself together with a quick shake of his shoulders, and
vanished amid the tangle of vines and shrubbery that hid the little garden door.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

PAWNS AND PLAYERS

BOOK III

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Book III

PAWNS AND PLAYERS

I

The lord Eudemius, covered with tawny leopard skins, lay stretched on a couch of carven ebony
in the library of the villa, of which the windows overlooked the great central courtyard. He
was a tall man, spare, with black, sombre eyes, a high nose, and a wiry black beard, close
clipped. His hands, long and white and nervous, held a scroll which he kept slowly unwinding
and letting roll together again. His face was remarkable for nothing save its complete impassivity;
devoid of all expression, it was merely a mask behind which the man kept locked his real self
and thoughts. A dish of fruit stood on a stand at his elbow. With him in the room sat Livinius,
the father of Marius, making notes with a stylus on a tablet of ivory coated with wax. The
face of Livinius was grave, yet eager. He began to speak presently, as though continuing a
conversation which had gone before.

"Rome has often needed gold, and has wrung it from the people mercilessly; but I tell you,
Eudemius, that her need was never greater than in this hour. Ay, and not gold alone she must
have, but brains to plan for her, hands to work for her, blood to be spilled for her. You,
yourself, friend, have been soldier, senator, statesman. You know, as I know, and as every
Roman in his soul must know, that the core of the trouble lies in the fact that she hath gathered
in more than her two hands could hold. I would not see her other than she is,--mistress of
the world; but I would first see her in a position to maintain that title in the face of all
challenge. And she is not in such position. Outwardly, she hath all show of might, of force
invincible and impregnable. But behind this, what is there? The weakness of dissension, where
there should be solidarity; division of interests, where nothing can save but union; rottenness,
where there should be wholesomeness and vigor. This is not treason I speak, but truth. We have
served her in field and forum, you and I; we have offered our blood on her altars; we shall
both carry the marks of her service until we die. And she hath paid us well. Now I am worn
out, useless, and cast aside; she has taken all she would from me, even my son. But you, old
friend, have still what she needs to offer. She needs gold; but more than that, she needs one,
powerful as you are powerful, to come forward and point to more timid ones the way. When she
enters her own once more, she will repay your loan with interest, for that hath ever been Rome's
way. I tell you, Rome in these days is like a sinking ship, from which the rats scurry in swarms,
to stand aside and wait to see if there be prospect of a safe return. Here, overseas, you get
but an echo of the truth. Every day the call goes out for more troops, and more."

Eudemius nodded thoughtfully.

"So the Third Legion is to be recalled from Gaul to Rome. It is what may be expected, but I
had not thought so soon. Their plans have been kept well secret. Ætius will soon not have men
enough for himself, not to speak of sending over men to our assistance. I suppose your son
goes with them? It must be all of ten years since I saw him last."

"He hath changed," the father answered quietly. "Yes, he goes, and I go with him. Come thou
with us, friend! What has Rome done to thee that thou shouldst not answer to her need? Now,
if ever, is the time when her sons must rally to her, for with all her faults--and she hath
many--she is still the mother of them all. I know well that it was within her walls that thy
trouble fell upon thee; but was she to blame for that?"

Eudemius's dark face never changed from its graven inscrutability, but his thin hands clutched
the scroll tighter and let it fall. Livinius eyed him tenderly.

"Is not the old wound healing, even yet?" he asked with great gentleness. For a moment silence
fell. Then Eudemius, stooping from the couch to pick up the fallen roll, said in his hard and
even voice, as though he discussed matters of small moment and everyday concern:

"Healing? Nay, how should it heal when each day fresh salt is rubbed into it? Take a look at
it now, if you will, for hereafter we'll let it bide and rankle as it must. Tell me; have not
your eyes seen changes, mental as well as physical, concerning which your lips have not questioned?"

"Changes? in you?" said Livinius, dropping into the other's more distant tone. "Ay, that is
true, and my heart aches to see them. That is another reason why I urge your return to Rome.
New scenes, new faces--your life is broken, yet a broken pitcher may be mended."

"True," Eudemius admitted evenly. "But who expects it to hold water again? Is it not rather
placed upon the shelf and forgotten--if, indeed, it be not flung upon the rubbish-heap?"

"But think of this--" Livinius persisted. Eudemius broke in.

"Ay, I have thought of this and that, and this is all it comes to!" he said harshly. "That
when I am gone, my name, blazoned in the annals of Rome before great Cæsar was, must dwindle
out to nothing with a weak girl. It came to me great, unstained, heavy with memories of soldiers,
heroes, statesmen, who had borne it worthily and left it clean for their sons and their sons'
sons. I made it the name of wealth as well as of greatness; I thought to hand it down to my
sons and my sons' sons, as the fires of Vesta are handed down from one generation to the next.
A son I prayed for--what any sodden carter is judged worthy to beget; a male child to uprear
in the traditions of his house, to add, an he might, his share to the glory of it. A son to
serve Rome as his fathers served. And what was born to me? A puling fool, not worthy even to
breed her kind into the world. Were she blessed with wit, she might mate with one worthy of
her blood and keep her name thus from complete extinction. As it is--what man would have her
to bear him mindless brats? Who would become sire to a race of idiots?"

Livinius scratched the wax of his tablet absently, and rubbed his finger over the mark.

"I have wondered often why you never married again," he remarked, tentatively. "It is fifteen
years since Constantia's death; surely in that time you might have found a woman to become
the mother of your sons."

"True, I might," Eudemius admitted, coolly. "But those fifteen years ago, through mine own
folly and hatred of life after that double blow of her death and knowledge of the girl's condition,--for
it was a blow, Livinius, since I was not then the wooden image of to-day,--there fell on me
the judgment of the gods for such rebellion as mine." He turned his sombre eyes full on Livinius.
"Would you believe, to see me as I sit here, that mine is a body racked by the tortures of
the damned, drained of the very sap of life by disease that eats into every nerve and leaves
it raw and quivering, yet that only numbs when its fury is spent, and will not kill? That time
after time, when its throes are on me, I have turned craven and begged Claudius for a potion
to end it all?" He laughed shortly, with no sound of merriment. "I marry again--a rotten hulk
fit only for carrion!"

Livinius listened, shocked.

"Oh, my dear!" he exclaimed in honest sympathy, "is it indeed thus with thee? And I had thought
of thee entering the harbor of thy rest, wealthy, honored, reconciled, perhaps, to what the
gods in their wisdom had ordained for thee, to end thy days in quiet and content. For fifteen
years, thou sayest. Man, how hast thou lived to tell it?"

Eudemius smiled, a smile which began at his lips and ended there, leaving his bitter eyes unlightened.

"Ay, fifteen years--and yet not so bad as that!" he said shortly. "Or it would have been well
over with me by now. But I have known from the first what lay ahead. I won it from Claudius,--poor
fool, how he trembled to tell me!--knew that each attack must be more severe than the one before;
that each day the disease would stride forward a slow inch, no more, and no human skill might
advance it or hold it back." His harsh voice sank a note lower. "At such times, when that grip
closes upon me, I know not what I do. Rather, I know, yet am powerless to act otherwise. I
tell thee, Livinius, I have had slaves flogged, ay, tortured, before my eyes, to see if by
chance I might find suffering greater than mine own. And if they died, I have had tortured
those who let them die, for it is not death I want, but what I have found to be worse than
death. Judge then if I were not better out of the world! Yet the only way of release open to
me I will not take, since I have not yet lost courage enough to brand myself a coward. I have
told Claudius, on pain of death for disobedience, that no matter how I cry to him for peace,
he shall pay no heed. Strange, is it not, that in this house the only happy thing is the cause
of all the sorrow that hath entered it? And yet--perhaps it is not so strange. She is but the
cause; on others fall the effects, ... and in their wisdom the gods have ordered that only
effects shall count in their scheme of things."

He put a hand over Livinius's hand, held it a moment, and let it go. For the first time he
fell into the intimacy of the other's speech.

"Thank thee, old friend, for thy sympathy. It is not often that the gall of my bitterness overflows,
for I have learned the wisdom of the Stoic at first hand. But I can claim scant sympathy here,--and
would not if I could,--where men call me the Torturer behind my back and cringe like curs before
my face. I am hard and cruel and calloused to the bone; yet were I not thus, in the name of
the high gods, what should I be? A thing lower than man, who can be lower than the beasts;
from which gods and men--ay, and beasts themselves--would turn in loathing. Thou art my childhood's
friend; thy sympathy hath been sweet to me, and I've bared my heart to thee. I have said: 'The
world runs thus and so with me; were it in my power, I'd have it otherhow. As it is, no good
will come of its discussion, so let there be an end to it, now and for all time.'"

A quick step sounded on the marble floor; the curtains at the entrance parted, and Marius came
in. He went clad in spotless white, which oddly accentuated his bulk and made his swarthiness
darker by contrast. He stopped short at sight of the two apparently in earnest conversation.

"Pardon!" he said easily. "I was told that I should find my father here, but I intrude."

"Not at all!" Eudemius answered. "We had finished our talk, and it was over time we were brought
back from the memory of other days."

Livinius smiled at his son as the latter sat down on the wide low ledge of the window, and
his genial eyes were full of pride. Eudemius caught the look, and his own eyes darkened, even
though the mask of his face never changed. This indeed was a son of whom one might be proud--a
son such as he himself should have had but for the mockery of the gods; a son strong of mind
and body, able to hold his own against all men, to assume the burdens that one by one slipped
from his father's shoulders. There was hint of dissipation in the clear-cut face; there was
more than a trace of headstrong will, which might easily enough turn to sheer brutality against
whoever crossed it. There was hardness, and small tenderness, in the firm jaw and the black
keen eyes; but what Roman father could not condone such things as these? For to Roman eyes,
all this went to spell strength; and Romans worshipped strength as Athenians worshipped beauty.
And Marius was strong, so that Eudemius, who was strong also, with the most unbreakable strength
of all, and could appreciate mere physical vigor the more since his own had gone from him,
looked at him and envied the father of him with bitterness.

"To-day I go on to Londinium," Marius said, gazing out into the sun-flecked courtyard. "Will
you wait here, father, for me? To-morrow I shall return, or next day at most--the business
will not take long." He turned to Eudemius with an explanation. "There is trouble about one
of the transports which are assigned to my cohort for our return to Gaul. She has been discovered
unseaworthy and in need of repairs, and may not be able to start with the rest of the fleet.
This is doubly inconvenient, as there is small prospect of securing a vessel to take her place,
and our orders are to sail for Gaul with as little delay as possible. So much misunderstanding
and confusion has resulted, that I have been sent to report personally what are the chances
for a start."

"That is too bad," Eudemius said. He was looking at Marius at the moment, and Marius was looking
beyond him into the court. Eudemius saw that all at once his face changed slightly, and his
eyes awoke to a faint, curious interest. Eudemius knew that nothing in his words could have
aroused this, and waited. Then he understood that Marius was watching some one outside in the
courtyard; some one whose approach he could gauge by following the man's glance. The some one
came to the door that opened on the court, and stopped there, and Eudemius glanced aside and
saw Varia on the threshold. At the same instant Marius rose.

She wore robes that flowed and yet were clinging, of faintest green, like the young shining
leaves of springtime; and her skin glowed and her lips were crimson, and her hair was loose
and tumbled. She held a ball in her hands, and stood in the doorway, hesitating, like a child
who does not know whether or not it will be welcomed, and yet would like to enter and find
out what was going on. In her pose there was a quaint and tender dignity, in odd contrast with
her rumpled hair and the childish plaything in her hands. Eudemius looked at her; and for a
single instant the veil of prejudice was lifted from his eyes, and he saw that, in spite of
all, this child of his was fair,--as fair as the dear dead woman who had given her to him and
lived to know what she had done. For that instant hope rose in him; he shot a glance at Marius
and read the dawning admiration in his eyes; perhaps, after all, in some not too distant time,
there might be--Then he realized the futility of such hopes, that had wakened and died so many
times before. Marius did not know the truth. When he did know--He saw that Varia did not look
at either of the others, but straight at him, and he spoke to her.

"Come hither, child!"

She came, docile, and stood near the foot of his couch. With her there seemed to enter a breath
of pure fragrance, as of wind blowing softly among unspoiled, wild flowers of the country-side,
of all things young and innocent and holy. Livinius's face softened as he looked at her. She
waited, watching her father, expecting nothing. Always he had given her nothing to expect,
neither unkindness nor affection. Eudemius looked at Livinius; from him to Marius, where he
stood in the window, silent, dominant even in his silence.

"And this is mine!" he said, with a motion of his hand toward Varia. Livinius, alone understanding
all that his words and tone implied, gave him a glance of mute reproach. He took Varia's hand,
as she stood near him, and patted it.

"I am glad to know thee, dear child," he said gently. "Thy father I have known these many years,
but thou wert a little baby when I saw thee last. Perhaps he has not told thee that I am a
friend of his, and this is my son."

And Varia, for the first time, looked into Marius's face, and smiled, saying nothing at all.
She sat on the edge of the couch, the ball in her lap.

"Where have you been, child?" Eudemius asked.

"In the garden, playing ball. I am going to play again," she answered, and never thought to
wonder why he frowned.

But Marius came over to the couch.

"Will you let me play also?" he asked, with a faint note of amusement in his voice. "Perhaps
I can show you a game you do not know, which soldiers play in camp. When they have no ball,
like yours, they take a lump of bread, that is round, and very hard, and will keep for months
without spoiling, and they play with that."

Varia jumped up.

"I should like that!" she said eagerly. "I cannot show you any game, for I know none that are
interesting; but I can learn yours!"

The two went out into the courtyard, side by side. Livinius said, in his gentle voice:

"She is a dear child."

And Eudemius answered:

"She is a bad bargain dearly bought," and turned his face away from the window.

Varia wearied of the new game shortly, and sat down beside the fountain to rest, with a frank
intimation that her companion might go back to the house. This he showed no intention of doing,
but threw himself on the grass beside her, and set himself the task of making her talk. He
studied her curiously; he had seen much of many women in many lands, but none who were quite
like her. Her utter simplicity was baffling; artificial himself, brought up in a civilization
which was artificial, he could not get it out of his mind that it was not a pose. Very soon
he got her mental calibre; with it got also certain surprises. She was all-innocent; yet, at
times, when she sat with hands clasping her knees and looked past him, without speech or motion,
as regardless of him as though he had not been there, he caught a hint in her eyes of something
he could not read. It was as though she struggled to recall a memory of something gone by,--something
sweet yet unholy which she did not understand, would not ask about, and could not forget. And,
at other times, in the midst of her childish prattle, she would say what would make him glance
at her strangely, in a voice like hers, yet whose subtle intonations were not like hers. Also,
he had not found many women who were at times as honestly regardless of him as though he had
not been there. With all her contrarieties he found her merry, full of a primitive joy of life,
touched only at moments with a haunting mystery which to his mind but added to her charm. Her
laughter bubbled over as water from a spring; she was careless, thought-free, light-hearted.
For it is only those who remember nothing that regret nothing; and Varia had neither remembrance
nor what it brings.

When he mounted and rode for Londinium that afternoon it was with the full determination to
despatch his business as quickly as might be and return. He told himself amusedly that he had
been singed too often, by too many flames, to care for the feeble light of one broken lamp.
This was quite true. But also he acknowledged that when other lamps were wanting, a broken
one might answer for an hour.

II

That night the sun went down in angry crimson that ate like fire through the sullen heart of
clouds banked low along the horizon. In Varia's garden the shrill insect voices were hushed;
the trees drooped their leaves motionless. It was a hot and breathless night, when thunder
muttered distantly and vague lightnings played hide-and-seek among the clouds, and the earth
was still as an animal that crouches waiting for a blow.

Eudemius entered his room shortly before midnight, while the storm menaced and would not break.
His thoughts still had their way with him, and they were none too happy thoughts. By the open
window stood a tall standard of wrought bronze, from the arms of which seven lamps swung by
chains, their flames flaring in the faint hot breeze which entered; otherwise the room was
dark. Eudemius drew a light couch near the window and stretched himself upon it, slowly, like
one worn out by weariness and pain. The lamplight fell upon his face, and showed it less of
a mask, more unguarded, grim and hollow-cheeked, stamped with the seal of suffering. A slave
entered, without noise, and placed on a stand a bowl of dewy fruit, a silver pitcher of wine,
and a tall cup of the exquisite Samian ware, rose-pink, thin as a fragile egg shell. In the
dim light it glowed like a ruby; Eudemius glanced at it with a faint pleasure in its beauty.
As the slave turned away, he spoke.

"Hath thy lady retired?"

The man stopped in the doorway.

"Lord, I know not."

"Then find out. If not, bid her come to me here."

The man, bending, crossed his arms before his face, and went. Eudemius lay and waited, watching
the wan lightning at play in the lowering sky, listening to the far-off grumble of the thunder.
Scents from the garden drifted to him on the warm sickly breeze; once a bat flapped past the
window. His eyes grew heavy with drowsiness.

But a step close at hand aroused him. He turned his head and saw Varia coming toward him, her
face pale in the dim light. She stopped when she reached the couch, and stood waiting in silence.
Eudemius rose, carefully, lest he bring on a spasm of pain, and stood under the light of the
seven lamps.

"Come here to me, child!" he said. Varia came, and stood where the light fell on her face and
throat; and he took her by the shoulders and looked long at her. His dark eyes passed over
her from brow to feet; noted the dusky warmth of her hair, where jewels gleamed like a coiled
snake's eyes; the curves of cheek and throat, the ripening grace of her slim body, half-revealed
beneath her silken robe. He studied her with an impersonal criticism, as though she were a
statue with whose workmanship fault might be found. Had she been a statue, he could have found
no fault.

"Thou art fair, child," he said musingly, while she stood passive under his hands. "Art thou
fair enough to win him, handicapped as thou art? And yet, who would take thee, when there are
others for the asking, as fair as thou and with none of thy defects? If thou didst but know
how to use that beauty of thine, it might make less of difference. For men have wedded fools
before this. Ay, but those fools must have been half woman as well as fool; but thou--thou
art all fool."

He looked at her strangely; suddenly pushed aside the robe from her shoulders and laid his
hands on her soft bare flesh.

"Ay, she's fair enough!" he muttered. "If I could but lash that torpid soul of hers to life--teach
her what all other women in the world know by nature and instinct! For if she have the beauty
of the immortal women, without the warm spirit of sex behind it, it will avail her nothing.
Passionless, she can never inspire passion. To see her mated to him--his child in her arms--a
son--a son!--who should redeem for me all the bitterness and the disappointment she hath brought--would
not that be better than nothing?"

His hands on her shoulders shook. She glanced up at him under her lids,--a strange glance into
which there flashed something that died as it came. Her eyes were dilated, but she made no
motion to push his hands from her.

"Could she win him?" Eudemius's voice was not above a whisper, yet it was tense with restrained
excitement. Drops of sweat beaded his forehead; the cords of his neck were taut. "Varia, dost
know, child, what thou art?"

"Ay," she answered quietly. "A fool. Thou hast said it."

Eudemius gave an exclamation of bitter impatience.

"Fool--yes, and child and woman as well. Hast thou never thought what it might be to become
as other women are? To know the kiss of a man's lips on thine--to feel his arms about thee--to
listen to the tale of love that is told to all but thee--"

"Tale!" said Varia, catching at the word. "Oh, I have heard tales--wonderful tales, more wonderful
than any that ever were told before! And I have known the kiss of a man's lips on mine; and
I have felt a man's arms about me!"

Eudemius gripped her slender shoulders, staring at her, and his face worked. Then he flung
her away from him.

"Thou poor fool!" he said in contemptuous pity. He clenched his hands and strode up and down
before the couch. "Oh, if I could but waken thee--if I could but waken thee! I'd use thee,
poor tool as thou art--I'd make thee, a worthless pawn, queen to play my game for me! Thou
art mine, bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, to do with as I will. Sometimes my hands itch
to shake into thee the sense thou lackest--or else to shake the useless life out of thee."

He stopped before her, breathless with thwarted passion that time after time dashed itself
like surge against the inexorable rock of Circumstance, to fall back baffled and beaten.

"Tell me!" he said, in a voice grown suddenly calm. "Child o' mine, dost think that thou couldst
win a man?"

It was a strange question from father to child, but then he did not see it so. And Varia, looking
at him, made a strange answer.

"I have won a man!" she said, and her voice was slow and haunting. "Body and soul I have won
him; he is mine for all time to come, to do with as I will. I am a fool, but I have done this
thing, and I think--" She stopped, and her voice changed and grew scornful--"I think it is
but a little thing to do!"

Eudemius stared at her.

"Thou hast--" he whispered, and moistened his lips with a dry tongue. "Say that again, girl!
Thou hast--Is this thy raving? Nay, tell me, who is the man?"

But another mood was on Varia. She laughed, like a rippling brook.

"He hath no name!" she said merrily. "No name--nothing; for he is nothing! He comes in the
clouds and in the storms and in the moonlight, and whispers strange things which none may hear
but I. His voice is the wind and his words are the rustle of the leaves, and his speech is
golden as flame; and oh, the tales he hath told to me!"

Eudemius laughed shortly.

"At first I even thought--" he muttered, and broke off. "Child, are thy women always with thee?"

"Ay, save at night. I sleep alone," said Varia.

Eudemius poured wine from the silver pitcher and drank it. Outside, the rain was falling with
a gentle dripping. The thunder had died; the breeze, cooler, came laden with damp earthy smells.
Varia went to the window and knelt beside it, leaning out into the warm darkness. Her father's
eyes followed her. But if Varia's mood had changed, his was not to be shaken off so lightly.
He sat down on the couch, wiping his forehead free from sweat. Here, he was close enough to
touch her, and he drew her back from the window so that she leaned against the couch and his knee.

"Varia," he said, moved by an impulse born of what had gone before, "dost love thy father?"

"Nay," said Varia, simply. "Why should I, my lord?"

"True," said Eudemius. "Why shouldst thou?"

Varia leaned her elbows on his knee, looking up at him with her chin on her hands. Her attitude
held the frank fearlessness of a child.

"Does my lord father love me?" she asked, and smiled up at him. Something within him warned
Eudemius to honesty.

"Nay, Varia," he said gently, and put a hand on her dark soft hair. "Thy father hath never
loved thee."

Varia suddenly rested her cheek against his other hand.

"Poor father!" she murmured, as though he were somehow deserving of all sympathy for this,
"Didst ever wish that I had not been born?"

"Ay," said Eudemius, still gently. "I have wished that."

Varia considered a long moment, and he knew that her eyes were on him.

"Why was I born?" she asked.

Eudemius turned his head away.

"Because thy mother loved me," he said, low and harshly.

"Because--my mother--loved thee!" Varia repeated. "Now that is strange! Did ever any one love
thee?"

Eudemius started. Then he laughed.

"Habet!" he exclaimed, in the language of the arena when a gladiator is down; and laughed again.
"Ay, child; once one loved me, and once I loved. Thou canst not credit such softness in me?
Well, I do not blame thee; but it is truth."

"I believe," said Varia, "for thou hast told me truth before, to-night. If thou hadst said
my father loved me, I should never have believed thy word again, but thou gavest me truth for
the truth I gave to thee. I am a fool, and sometimes it is given to fools to know the truth."

"And therein to be wiser than the sane," Eudemius muttered. "And that is truth also." He looked
at her a moment with something awakened in his face.

"Is there a change then, after all, in thee?" he said suddenly, deep in thought and study of
her face. "Thrice to-night hast thou said what I did not understand, and never thought to hear
thee say. Can it be that sometime in the future the dawn will break?"

Varia looked at him in her turn, a curious sidelong glance. In the dim light her face all at
once showed strange to him, as occasionally one will see a well-known face in a new aspect--pale,
with scarlet mouth and long veiled eyes. "Thou art something besides the child I've known;
though whether that thing be good or evil--" His speech died; he gazed at her as though he
would pierce the mystery which shrouded her and learn what it was that made her alien, forgetting
to finish his words. "There is a change, and I cannot fathom it. What is working in thee? Or
is it the delusion of mine own imaginings? Thy face--thy eyes--have they changed also? Mine
own imaginings--vain imaginings! What is there in thy life which could have changed thee? Ah,
if but these next months might see thee still more changed!"

Varia rose from her knees beside him.

"Why should I be changed?" she asked. "And why wouldst have me changed? I am happy--I have
been happy as I am. If the joy of life is not mine, as thou hast said so often, the sorrow
of life is not mine either; and I do not wish to change!" Her voice grew and gathered passion.
"I fear to change, for I know not what the change might bring. I do not understand. Oh, father--do
not wish that I should change!"

She took a step toward him with outstretched, appealing hands. Eudemius watched her with critical
eyes.

But even as he watched, his own face changed and went gray, and he caught his breath and put
a hand against his side. His body stiffened and grew rigid, while at the same time long shudders
ran through it, dumb protest of tortured nerves against what was in store for it and them.

"Go for Claudius!" Eudemius gasped; and Varia turned and ran. Eudemius flung himself back on
the couch and lay there, striving with all his iron will to hold the convulsions in check.
But he began to writhe, terribly, with no sound but the whistling of his breath through locked
jaws. His hand, outflung, touched the cup that glowed like a ruby on the stand beside the couch.
He clutched it, and crushed its fragile beauty into atoms; and blood dripped with the wine
upon the floor.

A torch gleamed outside the door, and hasty feet came running. Claudius, the physician, entered,
very old, very small, with silver hair and beard that was like a snow-drift, followed by two
slaves with lights and instruments. They lighted all the lamps, so that the room was bright
as noon; and Claudius took from them what he wanted, and sent them both away. Then he rolled
his sleeves above his elbows, and went to the couch where the silent figure lay twisting; and
as he went he tucked his long white beard inside the collar of his gown.

III

But the plans of Marius did not fall out as he had intended. It was a month before he returned
to the villa, with the prospect of remaining on British soil until another galley could be
fitted out and commissioned. This was exasperating, and Marius fumed secretly and swore at
the delay. Thinking to make the best of his enforced idleness by betaking himself to Aquæ Solis,
the fashionable watering-place of Britain, and what solace he could find there, he found himself
again disappointed. The leave he applied for was granted, but as he was starting upon his journey,
word was brought to him that his father was ill. He found it nothing serious, but Livinius,
grown querulous and childish in his fever, begged Marius not to leave him. So, perforce, Marius
stayed, contenting himself with boar-hunting in Eudemius's vast parks, and being entertained
by his host.

Eudemius, seemingly unchanged since his illness, had not forgotten that the young tribune's
eyes had once looked with favor on his daughter. And since love, like life, is but a game,
and much may be done by a player who handles his pawns wisely, Eudemius began to conjure up
hopes which, in spite of himself, he knew might never see fulfilment. The more he saw of Marius,
the more he coveted his strength to prop his dying house. His fortune would be safe in Marius's
hands, his name would be safe in Marius's keeping. For with all his faults Marius had a soldier's
honor, and could guard what was given to his charge. Forthwith, then, Eudemius began to lay
silent plans; to scheme indirectly, with cautious skill. It was a new game for him; he went
about it much as one ruler who seeks alliance, for political ends, with a neighboring kingdom.
He was entirely consistent in his course; no thought of his daughter's desires or wishes moved
him--even no thought as to whether or not she had desires or wishes on the subject. Nor did
he consider the personal inclinations of Marius himself. The alliance would mean much for him,
saving only for one thing--a thing which yet might override all advantages. This was where
Eudemius considered all his skill and finesse would be needed.

At first Eudemius mentioned this, the desire of his heart, to no living soul. He took Marius
with him over his estates on his tours of inspection, tours become unexpectedly frequent; he
took pains to have him present when overseers came with long tax-lists and rent-rolls to render
account to their lord. Marius saw himself surrounded with every luxury art could devise and
skill could execute, not as though brought forth for some occasion, but quite plainly in everyday
use and service. Life, eased for him from all exertion by the unseen hands of many slaves,
became a dream of indolence and content. Horses, grooms, slaves, were at his disposal; no wish
of his, however lightly uttered, but was unostentatiously fulfilled. In the midst of all this
he was left with no sense that it was done with a view to impress upon him the magnificence
of the villa and the villa's lord. He took it as he was intended to take it, and as it was,
as a matter of course, since all his life he had been accustomed to wealth and the luxury it
might bring. And, being so accustomed, he was able to appreciate justly the amount of money
it must take to maintain such an establishment in such a style. He listened to the reports
of overseers and stewards, all unaware that he was meant to do so; by degrees his own and his
father's fortunes came to seem by contrast mean and small. He fell readily enough into ways
which, reasonable for Eudemius, were extravagant for him. But, in spite of his inclinations
toward the life sybaritic, it was plain that he had no intention of getting himself in debt
to Eudemius in any shape or form. When Eudemius judged the time to be ripe, he brought Varia
upon the scene. This he did after his own fashion, studying carefully each effect that she
should make, with an artist's eye and a mind that would stop at no subterfuge to gain its end.

Livinius was convalescent, though still weak and unable to leave his bed, when Eudemius went
upon a day to his apartments and was admitted. Livinius lay in bed, looking gentler and frailer
than of old, with a slave reading to him from the De ira of Seneca. He signed to the latter
to leave, and held out a hand to his friend.

"Sit by me here, if you will," he said. "I have much to ask, and, I doubt not, you to tell.
That worthy physician of yours is dumb as any oyster. Were it not for my boy bringing me scraps
of news now and again, I should indeed feel out of touch with the world."

Eudemius seated himself beside the bed, his back, as usual, to the light.

"The world wags to its own appointed end," he said carelessly. "Have you heard, then, that
Rome has again refused to send troops to our aid? Verily, Britain is left to struggle with
her independence like a dog with a bone too large for it. There is but a sorry time in store
for us, if present indications point aright. You have asked me often to go back with you to
Rome, and I have been long considering it. But Rome has twenty strong men where Britain has
one, and I think that my place is here. To my mind, the people of the land, seeing those in
power withdrawing, and not knowing what to do of themselves, will turn like sheep to any who
will stand by them. Why, man, if one played his game with skill in this coming crisis, and
kept from joining in the panic into which others have flung themselves headlong, he might make
his power here little short of absolute, and reap his reward when Rome has settled her affairs
and the storm has blown over. One might become a second Carausius, another Constantine. Already,
since the troops of Ætius have gone, folk believe they hear that endless storm muttering again
in the West and South, and tell tales of new invasions of Jutes and Saxons. It is a fact also
that merchants going north require a double bonus on the goods they take. What Britain will
do without the hand to hold to which has led her for so long, is a question which no man can
answer and all men ask. But these be weighty topics to concern a sickroom, and I have other
matters to discuss with thee."

Livinius turned inquiring eyes upon him, but Eudemius was staring past him, thoughtfully.

"A matter which touches me nearly," he said, and all at once dropped into a more familiar mode
of speech. "Thou art my oldest friend, and there is none to whom I would sooner speak in confidence.
Thou knowest that I am growing old. Soon the gods of the shades will lay their hands upon mine
eyes, and my daughter and my house will be left alone. And a heavy time of trial it will be
for her, incompetent, with the burden of my wealth upon her. Were it not for this, I could
willingly leave all this; but some one first I must find to charge himself with that burden
for the recompense it may bring him. And there is but one way to do this; I must mate her to
some worthy man. If he be in humble circumstances, her gold shall alter that; if he be great,
it shall make him greater. To take her with it would be, after all, but a little thing, since
she is too much a child to want more than is given her, and is content with little. With her
unmated, as she is, fancy what would follow were she alone. No--it needs a strong hand to guard
what I have guarded; but it is a task well worth the taking. And it is in my mind that I have
found that strong hand I seek--if so it be that the owner thereof is willing."

He paused, to see that the sick man's eyes were on him in quickened interest.

"That man, friend," Eudemius said slowly, "is thy son. Him I would have, and none other, to
reign in my stead and take the place of that son denied me, who was to rear his children in
the traditions of my house and his. What say you to this, friend, if it chances that Marius
himself is willing?"

For a moment there was a pause. Livinius lay back on his pillows, and his face was a battleground
of contending thought. Plainly it said: "Power is great, but gold is greater, since it can
purchase power; therefore gold is a good thing to have. Yet no bargain was ever offered without
a 'but,' and what goes with this bargain of thine, O friend? An incubus which a man might well
hesitate to let fasten upon him; a hindrance to himself and, it may be, a menace to generations
yet unborn. And yet, the prize is worth risking much for, and the temptation is great."

At this point came wavering, uncertainty, a look of greed, cautious and eager. Eudemius, watching,
let the battle wage itself. When Livinius finally spoke, it was slowly, weighing his words
with care.

"You have spoken with all the frankness one friend could wish from another. It is only meet
that I too should be as frank. If my words offend, remember that it is I who shall grieve most.
Your daughter, fair though she is, and lovely, is yet a child, despite her years,--a child
who needs the care and thought which only love can give. Needing all, she could give nothing
save herself to her husband; and man's needs are of the spirit as well as of the flesh. And
suppose he wanted not the gift; what would there be for him? You see, I set aside all mention
of her dower; for though a man may marry gold, he must marry the woman also. I have watched
Marius from his cradle; I have marked when his nature followed the lines along which I strove
to train it, and when it turned of itself into new channels of its own. And of these channels,
some, I confess, ran widely counter to those which I had planned. No parent ever saw a child
grow precisely to the measure of the ideal of which he dreamed; it may be that every father
under the sun is doomed to disappointment at some trait or other in the child of his flesh."

Eudemius looked away from him, nodding soberly.

"So it hath been with me," said Livinius. "Marius has been a good son; but a good man he has
not been. For a bad man may make a good son, even though a bad son never makes a good man.
But I am not blind, and year by year have I watched the changes in him, some for the better,
some for the worse. When he was a child I chastised; when he was a youth I counselled; when
he became a man I could do no more than stand aside and watch him start upon the road he had
marked out for himself. And I tell you, Eudemius,--and you may guess if the words come easily,--that
were I in your place I would not give my daughter, being what she is, to such a man as he.
For her sake as well as his I say this. He is my son, and my house is his home for so long
as he wills it, and what I have is his. But to your daughter, young, innocent, knowing nothing
of the world, and less than nothing of men, he would bring only unhappiness and woe. She could
not understand him; he would be at no pains to understand her. Whether love might raise him
to its own height, I dare not say; rather I fear that he would lower it to him. He is passionate,
yet cold; but he is strong, and to men he is loyal and a lasting friend. He is a soldier through
and through; no mistress, were she never so madly loved, could come before his sword. For to
him, arms mean ambition and the fame he has set himself to gain; love is a dalliance by the
way, pleasant for the hour, soon forgotten. Sorry sport for a wife, you see! There you have
him, as I, his father, know him. And how can I, his father, say these things of him, who should
stand with him against all the world? Because he needs not my help to win his battles; and
there is one who in my mind may need it sorely."

And again there was a silence. Eudemius rose.

"Thank thee, friend," he said. "Thy words have made me to hunger all the more for that son
of thine. Mine also he shall be, if I can compass it. What need he give her but a name?--and
that, in good sooth, it will not hurt him to bestow."

He turned on his heel and went away; and Livinius looked after him long and gravely.

When Marius entered, some time later, it was to find his father alone and in deep thought.
Marius inquired how he had been feeling that day, and if he thought his strength returning.
Livinius answered abstractedly. He was aware that Eudemius's plan was taking root in his mind;
coming to weigh its pros and cons, he found that after all it might not be such a bad thing
for Marius--and himself. He motioned Marius to seat himself. Marius obeyed, waiting for what
his father might have to say. But Livinius kept his abstracted silence, and presently Marius
himself spoke.

"Will Eudemius return with you to Rome?"

Livinius shook his head thoughtfully.

"I fear not. I have tried to persuade him, but--I think his plans lie here. For one thing,
he does not like the idea of going back with that daughter of his."

Marius turned a slow glance on his father.

"It is a pity about that girl," he said indifferently. "She is very fair--as fair as any of
Rome's beauties."

"And as wealthy. When her father hath undergone his fate, his estates will pass to her," said
Livinius. He did not look at his son, and his voice was careless.

"It is a pity," Marius repeated, noncommittally. Livinius put his own construction upon the words.

"You mean--her misfortune? Ay, true. But many a man would overlook even that for sake of the
gold she would bring him."

"And that is true also," Marius said. "And yet--it were a risky thing for a man to give his
sons a mother found so wanting."

So that Livinius knew that Marius's thoughts, like his own, had strayed into those paths wherein
Eudemius would lead them. He changed the subject then, speaking of the delayed transport and
affairs in Gaul. Then he became weary, being still weak, and Marius left him.

The next evening, Marius, returning from hunting to the villa just before dusk, unwontedly
thoughtful over prospects which his mind was beginning to conjure up, to look at, and play
with, as it were, was met by a slave who said that the Lady Varia sent word that she wished
to see him on his return. Somewhat surprised at this, for he had scarcely seen her, much less
spoken with her, since his arrival from Londinium, he followed the man to the door of her apartments.
Here he passed a second slave, a tall fellow with a shock of black, unkempt hair, who was trimming
a lamp near by. This one turned his head to watch him as he entered, with fierce wolf eyes
into which leaped sudden jealous distrust. But a slave was a slave to Marius; and so heedless
was he of the man's presence, that later he could not have told whether or not he had been there.

Just inside the door Marius's guide crossed his arms before his face, bending low, and left
him, as though at an order. Marius, again surprised at this, stood and waited. The room, lofty
and warm and floored with exquisite tiling, seemed to overlook a garden, where dusk was gathering
fast. It was furnished sumptuously, and was filled with flowers which stood in great jars of
gorgeous Eastern coloring. Halfway down its centre ran one of the dwarf walls so common in
Roman rooms, which was made to serve as the back of a low and cushioned couch on either side
of it. A lamp of wrought bronze stood near, and by its light Marius saw that a figure was lying
on the couch, with head thrown back against the cushions and one white arm hanging over the side.

"Lady Varia?" Marius exclaimed. She did not answer, and he saw that she seemed asleep. He went
to the couch, walking softly, with a faint wonder as to why she had sent for him. She lay with
long lashes sweeping her cheeks and her warm lips parted, in the careless abandon of a child,
infinitely graceful, full of allurement. The thought entered his mind that it was a pose, a
piece of pretty trickery. He bent down until his lips all but touched her cheek and the perfume
of her hair rose to him, so that had she been feigning she must have given sign, or else been
better skilled in the gentle art of flirting than he believed. But she slept on, unconscious,
with slow, regular breathing, so still that he could see the beat of her heart under the filmy
stuff of her tunic.

And even as he watched her, so another, unseen, watched him,--another with gaunt, haggard face
and calculating eyes that took in every move of his pawns in the game to which he had set them.
With his father's words, in which he had read the hint, clear in his mind, Marius stood looking
long at the sleeping girl. Patrician she was from the crown of her dusky head to the tip of
her jewelled sandal. Fair she was,--and his breath came shorter as his gaze wandered unchecked
over her,--eminently desirable, and yet--He found himself confronted by the unavoidable fact
of her affliction. A man might well hesitate in face of all that it could mean. One could not
tell--that was the trouble. He realized, all at once, that her eyes were open, and that she
was looking at him, without speech or motion. He drew back, with a certain wholly unconscious
veiling of expression, and spoke.

"You sent for me, Lady Varia?"

She raised herself on an elbow, pushing the hair out of her eyes to look up at him. With the
motion, the jewelled fibula which held her tunic at the shoulder became unfastened, letting
the drapery slip lower over snowy neck and arm. He noticed that if she saw this, she made no
effort to replace it.

"Sent for you? Not I!" she said, and tapped her fingers on her lips to stifle a yawn. "Or if
I did, I have forgotten. Why should I have sent for you?"

She let herself sink back in the cushions, and he pulled a seat near the couch and sat down.
She began to play idly with the coiled golden snake around her bare arm, looking down at it
with long sleepy eyes. Again, as once before, the novelty of this lack of attention piqued
him into a passing interest.

"If I disturb you, I will go away," he offered. "You were sleeping; it were pity to disturb
such sweet repose."

"You do not disturb me," she answered, with all calmness, not looking at him. "Why should you?
If you like to stay, you may. I am not asleep now."

"Did you have pleasant dreams?" Marius asked, as he might have asked it of a child. She turned
scornful eyes on him.

"I do not dream asleep!" she said. "Only when I wake. What are dreams but thoughts, and how
can one think, asleep?"

He looked at her, surprised. She relapsed into silence, unwound the snake from her arm, at
length, and took to turning it over and over in her fingers, letting the light play on its
emerald eyes and the rich chasing of its scales. He continued to watch her, with greater freedom
under her entire indifference. He felt that, if he should get up and leave her, she would take
no notice, but lie there just the same, drowsy-eyed and indifferent, turning and turning the
golden snake. This slipped from her fingers after a time and dropped to the floor at his feet.
He picked it up, and as she held out her hand to receive it back, he clasped her wrist gently
and began to coil the snake about her arm, above the elbow. She let him do it; emboldened,
he kept her hand, when the jewel was in place, and pressed it gently. But she drew it away,
not as though in rebuke, however, and examined the armlet to see that it was on properly.

"Is it not right?" Marius asked, amused. "Let me do it again; this time I will make sure."

She shook her head, with a slow smile at him. Greatly daring, he leaned nearer, and fastened
the loosened pin on her shoulder. In the operation, his fingers touched her soft flesh. But
she seemed not to notice him at all; so that quite suddenly he felt baffled and perplexed.

"You are a strange girl!" he said abruptly. Again she smiled.

"Why?" she asked. "Because you cannot understand me, you call me strange?"

He laughed.

"Perhaps that is it, O my Lady Wisdom. But truly I begin to think you a riddle worth the reading.
It may be, that with somewhat of teaching, you might prove a pupil apt enough for any man."

She looked at him eagerly.

"Is it a game?" she asked. "You taught me one before, and I liked it. Wilt teach me also this
other game? Is it a good game?"

"Ay," said Marius, amusement in his voice. "It is a good game--the finest game in the world,
for the one who wins. And, indeed, I have it in mind to teach thee, thou pretty witch, the
more so since I should have the methods of no other to unteach. See, then, I'll show thee the
first move. Give me thy hand--so."

Varia held out her hand, leaning back on her pillows with eager eyes of anticipation. Marius
took the hand. It was small and soft and fragrant, with rosy, polished nails.

"This, you must know, is a game at which but two can properly play," he explained, as a schoolmaster
might propound theories to a class. "Three have sometimes tried it, but the third in most cases
has wished he had kept away. Most players divide it into three parts, for the sake of convenience.
The first, for the woman; the second, for the man; the third, usually, for the lawyers. This
latter may be played in various ways--sometimes is omitted altogether. A great advantage of
this game is that so many rules govern it, that whatever one does, is in accordance with some
rules, even though it may be at variance with certain others."

He turned the little hand over and kissed the palm.

"Certain things there be which every player should possess," he added in the same tone. "For
the woman, beauty--or if not this, a cleverness which is clever enough to manifest itself only
in results. Also, if a woman hath not beauty, it is imperative that she be an adept at the
game. Innocence, in one party, not in both, is a valuable asset, since one of the objects of
the game is the winning of it. Were both to have it, it would become in very truth a child's
game. Wealth is also a good thing to have,--and this for both players,--since one or both are
apt to pay dearly in the end. And wealth is also nearly always an object in the game. It hath
many points, you see, which must be remembered."

"I fear it is a hard game," said Varia, and shook her head in doubt. "I--I cannot remember
things very well sometimes."

"Even that hath been found an advantage at times," said Marius, and laughed softly. He changed
his place and sat on the edge of the couch beside her, and possessed himself of her other hand.
Varia glanced from her prisoned fingers to his face and back again.

"The game may be played fast, or it may be played slowly," said Marius, his eyes on her perplexed
face. "In most cases, the faster the better, lest one or other of the players should tire.
What say you, sweetheart--shall ours be short and therefore merrier?"

He drew her back into his arms, and raised her face with his free hand and kissed her lips.

"No!" said Varia, quickly, and struggled slightly to sit up.

"Yes--that is in the game!" said Marius, and would not let her go. "Does it come hard at first,
my sweet? Never mind--soon you will like it better. Besides, I have told you that it is part
of the game. So--rest quiet, and I will show you how else it goes."

In her eyes he read a struggle to recall something gone before and all but forgotten; a mental
groping, painful in its intensity. She ceased her resistance, and he drew her closer and kissed
her many times, with a growing passion which surprised himself. Her breath came quicker, but
in her eyes was only the dumb striving after things forgotten, with no fear at all nor anger
with him. His lips strayed where they would; in her strange absorption she seemed scarcely
conscious of him.

"Truly I did well to call thee strange!" Marius said low in her ear. "Did one not know the
facts of the case he might well count thee as good a player as himself."

Varia wrenched her hands from his and sat up. So swift was her motion that he had let her go
before he knew it. She put her hands to her temples.

"But I have played this game before!" she cried, unheeding him. "I know now--oh, I know now!
Thou wilt tell me that I am beautiful, and that thou lovest me, and thou wilt say that all
is not well with thee for the pain thou hast. And I will stroke thy head to ease the pain,
as sometimes my lord father will have me do. That is how the game goes. And Marcus comes and
tries to play as he came before; he was the third, as thou hast told, who wished that he had
not. But it should be in the garden; it was in the garden before!"

"Now what is this raving?" Marius exclaimed, wholly uncomprehending. He tried to take her again,
but she slid off the couch and escaped him. He pursued and caught her, but instead of the passive
yielding he expected, he met resistance which was unlooked-for.

"No! I'll have no more!" she cried. "Let me go--I do not wish to play this game with thee!
Always he stops when I bid him--thou must do the same. I do not like this thy way. He is not
rough, but gentle, and I do not fear him. Oh, let me go!"

"Thou hast played this game before, then?" said Marius. "Be still, girl! I'll not hurt thee,
but I will not let thee go. Is there more in this than I had fancied? Are thy words mere idle
raving? By the gods, I think not! Answer me what questions I shall ask, and I'll let thee go,
not sooner. I have a mind to know the truth of this!"

She stood still, half in tears, breathing fast, like a frightened child.

"Hast thou played this game before?" Marius asked.

"Ay," she murmured, like a child brought to task, and tried again to release herself as though
to escape punishment.

"With a man didst thou play it?"

"Ay, with a man."

"What man?"

She ceased her futile efforts to escape, and wrung her hands helplessly.

"I will not tell! He said that if my lord father knew it he would be displeased!" she wept.

"I think it likely that he would," said Marius, grimly. "But to tell me would not be telling
him. It may be that I can help thee. There, never cry like that! Am I not thy friend?"

"I know not!" she sobbed. "Oh, I am frightened! Let me go, I pray thee!"

"Tell me first!" Marius persisted. He cast a hasty glance around. "Quick, for we shall not
be alone much longer. Tell me, I say!"

She only wept, her face hidden in her hands. Marius's temper, a fragile thing at best, gave way.

"Never think to keep it from me! I'll have it whether thou wilt or no," he said roughly. The
idea of an intruder upon what he had suddenly come to consider his own domain was not to be
tolerated. Varia again struggled, with violence, and finding herself held fast, screamed loudly.

"Hush, little fool!" Marius exclaimed. "I am not hurting thee!"

"Let the girl go, lord!" said a voice behind them. Marius turned his head, to see a figure
bearing down upon them, lean and tall, with a shock of black hair and angry eyes. Varia, turning
at the same instant in Marius's grasp, saw the man, and cried:

"Make him to let me go! He hath tried to make me tell thy name--do not thou tell it!"

"So!" Marius exclaimed in triumph, catching the clew. "Thou art the man--thou!" His tone held
wrath and amazed disgust.

The slave stood his ground.

"Let the girl go!" he repeated. It might well have been that never had a man used such a tone
to Marius in his life before. From a slave it was not to be brooked.

"Get you gone, you dog!" he said savagely. "Later I'll settle with you, if it be that my suspicions
be correct. How dare you enter here unbidden?"

"I heard my lady cry out," Nicanor answered. Varia's voice broke into his speech.

"I tell thee make him to let me go! He is a beast, and I hate him--I hate him!"

Rather than prolong the scene before a slave, Marius let her go. She ran to Nicanor and caught
his arm.

"Take me away!" she cried through tears. "I will not stay with him!"

"It were best that you should go," Marius agreed promptly. "As for you, fellow--"

"He shall come with me!" Varia said imperiously. "You will harm him--I will not have him stay.
Go yourself, bad man!"

"There will be no harm done, my lady," Nicanor said gently. There was all possible respect
in his voice, but Varia went, obedient, with a last look backward on the threshold. Marius
turned upon Nicanor.

"Now, who are you?" he asked curtly.

"You see me--a slave," Nicanor made reply. His voice was sullen; he was cornered, and he knew
it. Also he was powerless, unable to strike a blow in his own defence; and who would see that
justice was done a slave?

Marius sat down on the couch and eyed him. Nicanor returned his gaze with watchful eyes alert
for any move.

"I have seen your face before!" Marius said suddenly, awaking to a consciousness of the fact.
Nicanor answered nothing. The two eyed one another in silence, neither yielding an inch, the
Roman coldly haughty, the slave always watchful.

"Hast ever held communication with the Lady Varia?" Marius asked.

"I have served her," Nicanor answered.

Marius laughed, looking him up and down as though he had been a horse put up for sale.

"So I begin to think!" he muttered. "After what fashion, dog?"

Nicanor's eyes blazed beneath their shaggy brows; his brown hands clenched in fury.

"As a servant should," he said harshly.

Again Marius laughed.

"So! That drew blood, did it? What has passed between you? Have you, you base-born clod, dared
draw her attention to you, and she a noble's daughter? Speak, you fool, if you would not die
the death!"

Nicanor raised his head slowly and looked his questioner in the eyes, a defiance as direct
as insolent bravado could make it. Marius's thin lips drew tighter.

"You refuse to answer, do you? Do you know that for this you will be broken on the rack at
the lifting of my finger? And if you refuse to speak, this shall be done before another day
is past. You have a chance now which you will not have again, to deny or to confess. And it
is not every one who would give it!"

"My lord hath not questioned me. To no other am I accountable," said Nicanor.

Marius grunted scornfully.

"You fool! Do you think your silence can save you? I'll have the story from Lady Varia; how
may she withhold it? Her own lips shall seal your guilt, as already they have convicted you."

This was true. Nicanor knew it, but he did not flinch. All that was left to him was to die
game, and this he knew also.

Marius all at once wearied of his examination.

"Be off with you!" he ordered insolently. "I'll have you cringing yet before I am through with
you."

Nicanor turned on his heel, with no obeisance such as a slave should make, and strode out of
the room. Marius gave a short, angry laugh.

"The brute will not whine! By all the Furies, he's worth the breaking. Now, methinks, I have
my scornful lady where I want her--and my lord as well. This slave may be a weapon worth the
having, since my foot is on his neck also. We shall soon see!"

IV

That night Eudemius and his younger guest supped alone, with but one slave to wait upon them.
Marius, never prone to speech, kept his own counsel as to the events of the afternoon, and
bided the time when he might turn them to his own ends. Eudemius also was more silent than
his position as host seemed to warrant. That he was in bad humor was to be seen from the threatening
glances he cast at the luckless slave when a dish was delayed or a wine too warm. He was an
old man, this latter, white-haired and bent and very skilful, with a sunken face as pale as
parchment. Marius, as keen to observe as he was silent, saw that always the old man watched
his lord's face with an eager anxiety, like a dog that would read every thought in its master's
eyes.

Eudemius, as was his custom, took only fruit and one of the light Cyprus wines. Marius, not
at all disturbed by his host's example, dined luxuriously and drank freely. Wine had small
effect on him; but he noticed that each time his glass was filled Eudemius glanced at him,
with apparent carelessness. This amused him, and, sure of himself, out of sheer perversity,
he took care to have it replenished many times.

Halfway through the meal, Eudemius clapped his hands.

"Marcus, come hither!" he said shortly. Marcus came, with servile submission. "Go to Nerissa,
and bid her bring her mistress here. She will know what to do."

The old man hesitated a bare instant, with a strange glance at his lord, crossed his arms,
and went.

"Marius." Marius's keen wits, instantly at work upon the name and the half-forgotten idea it
conjured up, found the thread they sought. "Marcus came once and tried to play; he was the
third," Varia had said. Marius's eyes lightened to a secret satisfaction. Here was one, at
his hand, who could supply the information he wanted. He leaned forward across the table.

"To-day I had speech with thy daughter," he said, as one introducing a topic which may prove
of interest. Eudemius turned his inscrutable eyes on him.

"So?" he said calmly.

"She told me a wondrous tale of a man who came to her in a garden," said Marius; and watched
suspicion grow into the other's eyes and burn there. "She said it was a game they played--what
game, thou and I may guess. I put it down to the--fancies she hath at times, and paid no heed.
But when she said that one Marcus had seen this man there also, it came to me that perhaps
there might be more in it than might be thought. If this be the Marcus of whom she spoke, it
may be that he would have something to tell.--Try these roasted snails, I pray thee; they are
beyond praise. It would seem that they are delicate enough--"

"She herself hath said--" Eudemius began, and stopped. The mask of his face never changed;
only his mouth settled into sterner lines and his eyes grew more forbidding. Silence fell between
the two and lasted until Marcus came in again and held the curtains apart for Varia. She entered
quickly, her bosom heaving, lips pouting, eyes full of tears.

"Nerissa would have it that I should wear this dress, and I hate it!" she cried petulantly,
before either man could speak. "She said that thou didst will it so. Wherefore? I will not
wear it ever again. I scolded her until she wept, but she made me wear it."

"She was right. I gave command to her," Eudemius said coldly. "Sit there."

Varia dropped into the seat opposite Marius, with a resentful glance at her father and a wrathful
twitch of the hated robe. It was of faintest amethyst, with tunic embroidered in gold, fastened
by many jewels. She looked like a fair young princess, a very angry young princess; and Marius,
from where he reclined at ease on the opposite side of the table, looked across at her with
quite evident admiration.

"Why should you hate it, if unworthy man may ask?" he said amusedly. "Surely not because you
think it makes you less fair, since nothing could do that. Why, then?"

"Because I do!" she flashed at him, as though that settled the matter. Marius bowed in mock
humility.

"The best reason of all!" he said gallantly.

"Child, with whom didst thou play thy game in the garden?" Eudemius asked. His voice was gentler
than his face, and quite casual. Varia fell into the trap. She looked up eagerly.

"It was a game--" she began, and stopped, with the red blood flushing into her face and her
eyes turning from her father to Marius. "I do not remember!" she stammered.

Eudemius turned his sombre eyes full on her, and she shrank and trembled.

"Thou dost not remember?" Eudemius said in his even, inexorable voice. "But there was a game?
Was it a game in which a man held thee in his arms and kissed thee?"

She nodded quickly.

"Ay, a game," she exclaimed, and caught herself up. "No, no!" she cried fearfully. "It was
no game--Oh, I do not know! I cannot remember!"

She hid her face in her hands and wept. Eudemius motioned to the silent slave behind her chair.

"Take her to her nurse and return," he said. "I'll have the truth of this by some means."

Marcus led his weeping mistress away; and Eudemius saw that Marius's eyes followed her until
the curtains fell behind her, and read the look therein.

With her exit, Eudemius all at once lost his composure. He sprang from his place at the table
and took to striding up and down the room. Unexpectedly he stopped before Marius.

"If there be truth in this," he said, and his voice shook with rising fury, "I'll find the
man who hath entered my gates by night, and for what damage he has wrought I will make him
pay tenfold with living flesh and blood. Marcus was there, thou sayest; he will know. And if
he will not tell--if he thinks to shield him--"

He broke off with a quick intake of breath, and put a hand to his side. A spasm of pain crossed
his pale face and distorted it. "Come back, thou knave, while I have sense to question!" he
muttered, and dropped into the nearest seat, and sat there, with head bent forward and hands
clutching claw-like the arms of the chair.

Marcus entered, alone. Eudemius raised his head.

"Didst thou--" he began, and stopped. But he gathered himself together, and tried again.

"Didst thou see him who entered the women's place by stealth to hold speech with thy mistress?"

Marcus nodded eagerly. His voice was drowned in Eudemius's exclamation of fury.

"So the fool spake truth when I thought she raved! Not so much fool after all, perhaps, but
better fool than--" He checked himself on the word. "Who is the man?" Again his face grew distorted;
on the hands that gripped his chair the veins stood out dark and swollen. Pain made him brutal;
he glared at Marcus with the bloodshot eyes of a goaded beast. Marcus, with a hoarse cry, bowed
himself to the ground, his hands before his face. Eudemius brought his fist down on the arm
of his chair.

"Who is the man? Answer, slave, if thou wouldst keep the flesh on thy living bones! Who is
the man, and what hath been his work?"

Then Marcus raised himself, with outstretched hands, gesticulating frantically. The effort
he made to speak was fearful; his face became congested, his eyes seemed starting from his
head. And his voice was as fearful, hoarse, bestial, with apish gibberings. But no words came;
he could only beat the air and cry out in impotent despair.

"The man is mad!" Marius exclaimed, staring.

Eudemius lifted himself half out of his chair. Beads of sweat stood thick upon his forehead.

"Mad or sane, I'll have the truth from him!" he snarled. He caught the dog-whip from the back
of his chair and lashed the slave across the face.

"Now speak!" he shouted. "Think not to shield him so, for I'll have thee flayed alive before
thou shalt defy me thus!"

"I--I!" groaned Marcus. The word had a strange and guttural sound, but Eudemius did not notice.

"Go on!" he ordered furiously.

"I--I--!" Marcus screamed, and fell grovelling at his master's feet.

A spasm of pain shook Eudemius and turned him livid. He kicked savagely at the writhing figure
on the floor and clapped his hands thrice loudly. Two slaves came running, with faces pale
with apprehension. Eudemius, almost beyond speech himself, raised a shaking hand and pointed
downward at the heap.

"Take him to the stone room and put him to the rack until he is ready to say what I would hear!"
he said hoarsely. His voice broke into a gasp; he leaned back heavily, with his other hand
against the chair from which he had risen. "When he is ready, call me!"

The men lifted Marcus to his feet and took him away.

Marius watched interestedly. To counsel mercy never crossed his mind--the mind of a Roman bred
to consider bloodshed a sport and mortal strife a pastime. If Eudemius chose to kill his slave
for a whim--well, the slave was his, and it was nobody else's business. He turned to the table
and poured himself another glass of wine.

Eudemius dropped back heavily into the chair and sat, as before, with head bent slightly forward
and gripping hands. And, as before, he seemed listening; only this time it was with a cruel
and eager greed, and his eyes, bloodshot and terrible, were as the red eyes of a vulture that
waits for its victim's death. From time to time his mouth twitched, and a shudder, long and
uncontrollable, ran through him.

But still he waited, and there was silence in the room.

V

That day Nicanor had been assigned by Hito to the squad of the fire slaves, whose duty it was
to tend the fires of the hypocausts which warmed the guest apartments, the rooms of the master's
family, the banquet halls, and the baths. The great fireplaces, one for every hypocaust, built
in arches under the outer walls of the villa, were approached from the outside by passages
of rough masonry. From them the hot air was carried back through the hypocaust and led to the
rooms above by means of an ingenious system of flue tiles. The fires, burning constantly from
the first approach of the keen weather of Autumn, needed incessant attention. All day slaves
went back and forth, carrying wood and buckets of mineral coal from the great mines near Uriconium,
through the narrow alleys to the roaring furnaces, where the air, smoke-laden and acrid, was
hot to suffocation. Here, panting, dripping with sweat, they fed the flaming mouths; then back
again into the outer air, which by contrast struck knife-like to the very vitals. The colder
the weather and the greater the necessity for fires, the more was the suffering of the slaves
increased. The feeding and attendant cleaning of the furnaces was a task given usually either
to none but the lowest menials or else as punishment. Hence Nicanor knew himself in Hito's
black books, and obeyed his orders with an ill grace which did not tend to lighten his labors.

Once that day already he had shirked his duty, driven by restless longing, to stand outside
the door which for him hid all the enchantment of the world, until the coming of Marius had
sent him about any task he could lay hand to. With what had followed, and with the knowledge
that his fate was absolutely in the hands of Marius, he became impatient at the delay. The
sword hung above him and would not fall. If he but knew what was to happen he fancied that
he might have prepared himself in a measure to meet it. Nothing in the way of escape could
be attempted until after nightfall; he was too much the object of Hito's malicious attention
for that. And escape meant escape from Varia, from stolen, memory-haunting visits, from all
that just then made life bearable. Suspense and his own powerlessness turned him sullen; he
went about his tasks under Hito's eye with a dogged surliness at which his fellow-slaves laughed
in private and dared not challenge him in good-natured raillery.

Away from Hito, he straightway forgot what was in his hands, and remained deep in boding thought,
his face lowering. He was on the edge of a precipice into whose depths no man dared look; into
which Marius's hands might plunge him at will. Thoughts of Thorney, of the churned-up waters
of the fords, of the camp-fires glowing through dusk, of the nervous press of men and beasts
that lit upon the island like a swarm of bees, and, like a swarm, buzzed awhile and settled
to brief rest, crowded upon him then. He would go back to Thorney--though never to the ivory
workshop--and he would make enough to live on by telling tales to those who circled about the
fires, even though these were not the worlds he had dreamed of conquering. And first of all,
and somehow, he must free himself from the welded collar of brass about his throat. With this
to brand him for what he was, the first man he met along the highway might return him to his
master--if he could--and claim reward.

The slaves' quarters, following the general plan of the house, were built around a square inner
court, with a cryptoporticus, or covered gallery, at the northern and southern ends. But here
were no polished floors of rich design and coloring; no soft couches and brilliant draperies,
no marbles and paintings. There were no hypocausts beneath to warm the rooms to Summer heat;
these, small and bare as cells, were always cold. On the eastern side of the court were housed
the women slaves; on the western, the men. Between these, on the northern end, were the apartments
of the freedmen and stewards and overseers, with their offices. On the southern side, to the
right of the main entrance to the court, were the storerooms leading down to the dark coldness
of the wine-cellars. To the left of the entrance were the kitchens, with stoves, and with hypocausts
beneath them. Outside the walls, singly and in groups, were the wattled huts of the field-hands,
who cared for the parks and immediate lands of the villa, and who came twice daily to the great
house to be fed.

In such a household, where economy was a lost word and extravagance the order of life, the
stewards and overseers who managed it, being accountable only to their lord, were vested with
much power, and made the most of it. Head and front of them all was Hito, fat and shining,
with glinting pig's eyes. No detail of the great establishment was too trivial for his notice.
Supposed to have general control over each division of slaves, which in turn was managed by
its own headman, he yet had a finger in all businesses. Like all men of his stamp, he went
in mortal fear of ridicule; thought to show his power by abuse of it. On his word alone a slave
might be put to the rack; let an unfortunate incur his displeasure, and he had endless ways
of revenge. His predominating characteristic was an oily sleekness; the very voice of him was
smooth with unctuousness. Violent likes and dislikes he took, and was in a position to gratify
both, a bad enemy and a worse friend. And his methods had but one trait in common,--an entire
and often apparently irrational unexpectedness. It was the one thing which in him might be
relied on; he would do the thing he was least expected to do.

After the evening meal came a period of respite for those not on duty at the house. Much license
was carried on at such times, at which Hito discreetly winked--unless he held a grudge against
some luckless one. Even he had been known to take a hand himself in various affairs, using
his official authority to gain his private ends.

Dusk deepened, and night fell. Hito rolled to the door of his office and stood looking out
into the court, picking his teeth with grunts of well-fed content. A slave was lighting a brazier
of charcoal near the well in the centre of the court. The bit of blazing tinder, which he nursed
carefully between his hands, threw its light up into his face and showed it in relief against
the darkness, sombre, strongly marked, with a thatch of black bushy hair. Hito, recognizing
him, scowled with an instantly aroused antagonism.

"Nicanor!" he shouted.

Nicanor lifted the brazier by its handle and came. When he reached Hito, he set it down, for
it was heavy. Hito jerked his head at it.

"Where are you taking that?" he demanded. If he had thought Nicanor had been trying to steal
it, he could not have thrown more suspicion into his voice.

"To the rooms of the Lady Varia," Nicanor answered. From his tone it was plain that the antagonism
was mutual.

"Who commanded it?"

"Her nurse."

Even Hito had nothing to say to this. But, bound to show his authority, he thought to have
the last word.

"Well, leave it, and I will send another. I have a thing for you to do."

"No!" said Nicanor.

Hito's little pig eyes glinted.

"So be it! Take it, then," he said, and his voice was smooth as oil. "You can still do what
I would have--perhaps even better. Now pay attention. When you go to our lady's apartments,
look well around and see one of her women there. She is, I know, on duty at this time, but
in what room I do not know. Speak with her, if you can, and say that I, Hito, am willing to
see her to-night, and that I expect her. She will understand! Say that I wait for her,--she
will know where,--and if she does not come, I will find out why." He crossed his arms on his
fat chest.

"If she is not in the outer room I cannot seek her. I am no eunuch," said Nicanor, shortly.

"Maybe she will be there," Hito replied. "See, this is how you shall know her. Look for one
with black hair, with dark brows and eyes blue, white in the face and somewhat lean, as though
consumed by inward fires,--of passion, you understand! Be sure and say to her that if she doth
not come, I will find out why." He hugged himself gently, leering at Nicanor. "And--Nicanor,
I ask this as a friend, not require it as a service; wherefore--you understand?--nothing need
be said about it. I would not get the poor girl into trouble, but seeing that she urgeth so--"

Nicanor looked unmoved upon his fat smirk.

"I will do as you command," he said, and picked up the brazier and turned to go.

"Nay, never say command," Hito said in haste, and deigned to lay a hand on the slave's broad
shoulder. "I do but ask it of you in all friendship. Therefore you should be grateful that
I, Hito, admit you thus to confidence. For, look you, there be reasons; this, one might say,
is--not official."

Nicanor's grim lips relaxed to a half smile.

"I will do it, then, since Hito craves it," he said, and went his way across the court. Hito
shook his heavy jowls in rage.

"Dog!" he muttered. "'Hito craves' forsooth! I'll have that up against you, mighty lordling,
one of these fine days! In the name of the gods, what is one to do with a fellow who cares
not the snap of his finger for any punishment I can devise?"

Nicanor went along the covered gallery leading from the slaves' quarters to the mansion. At
intervals he shifted the heavy brazier from hand to hand. The heat of the smouldering charcoal
in it rose to his face, gratefully warm. When he reached the anteroom of Lady Varia's apartments,
going by the rear passages, he found no one. The room, warmed to Summer heat, and filled with
flowers, was empty. Perfumed lamps burned low, swinging from their bronze and silver standards;
in a curtained recess in the wall a marble Minerva gleamed shadowed white, half concealed by
curtains of dusky red. A silver jar of incense, burning before the shrine, tinged the air with
faint fragrance. All was quiet and peaceful, a safe and sheltered nest. From the other inner
rooms he could hear voices; a girl's voice steadily intoning sonorous blank verse; at intervals
another voice, interrupting, slow and languid, that set his heart beating hard and his face
flushing. He picked up a bell from the stand near the entrance and rang it.

The recitative stopped; there was a murmur of mingled voices, and footsteps. A girl parted
the curtains which hung between the rooms and came toward him. Her hair was black, fastened
by long pins of bone; her face white and resentful; her brows were straight and dark, and the
eyes beneath were shadowy. She was slim and moved swiftly, and her skin was white as milk.
This, then, was the girl upon whom Hito had cast his evil glance. Nicanor kept his eyes on
her as she came, and wondered if she was newly bought, that he had not seen her during the
months he had been at the villa.

"I bring the brazier Nerissa commanded," said Nicanor, and she nodded.

"Nerissa is busy with our lady. I will take it in."

"She is not ill?" he asked anxiously.

"Nay, not ill," the girl answered. "It is but that she feels the cold. I will take the brazier."
She looked at him with some surprise that he did not give it up.

"It is heavy," he warned her. "Stay one moment, I pray you. Will you not tell me your name?
I have been in this house these many months, and never before have I seen you."

"I am called Eldris," she answered. "And I have been here also, but--it is true you have not
seen me, although at times I have seen you. I have been seen by none save--"

"Save one, perhaps," said Nicanor, and looked into her eyes. "I bring you word from Hito--if
you are she he told me to seek out. He saith that he, Hito, is willing to see you to-night;
that he expects you, and that you will understand. He saith that he awaits you--you will know
where; and if you do not come, he will find out why. Also--"

He stopped on the word. The girl had gone gray; and into her eyes there leaped a look of helpless
terror, of dumb anguish and nameless fear. And at once, with the look, she became elusively
familiar. A memory, half lost, beckoned to him, of a white and tortured face, of eyes which
held the terror of a wounded animal at bay, of a long red welt across brown shoulders. His
glance went to the girl's shoulders, white as milk, half hidden under her coarse white tunic.

"Hito!" the girl exclaimed below her breath; and again--"Hito!" She flung out her hands with
a movement of bitter despair and hid her face in them. "What can I do? Where can I go?" she
cried hopelessly. "Since the first day he saw me this hath hung over me--and what can I do?
O my God! what can I do against him?"

"You do not go willingly?" Nicanor questioned, and took note of the exclamation she had used.

"You will not force me to him!" she gasped in terror, misunderstanding, and shrank from him.

"Not I! I am no man's procurer!" Nicanor said curtly. "I give his message; the rest lieth with
you and him."

"Never with me!" the girl exclaimed. She broke into hard dry sobs that racked her. Nicanor
watched, quite at a loss what to say or do.

"He hath--he hath threatened force and the rack if I refuse," she sobbed.

"The rack is a bad thing to know!" said Nicanor, thinking of what he had seen in the room at
the end of the passage. He spoke with all sincerity, being no better than his time.

"Ay, but there is something worse!" Eldris flashed back. "I would rather face my lord in the
torture-chamber; I would rather be broken on the wheel and die the death--" She shuddered,
and again hid her face. "And there is no way out of it but death. What can I do, a slave?"

The old bitter cry, wrung from the lips of many that the word of the Nations' Law might be
fulfilled--wrung from the lips of Nicanor himself. He knew the full measure of its bitterness,
and somewhere in him an answering chord stirred and woke to life. He put his hand on her shoulder.

"See then, if that be thy feeling,--though them knowest not the rack!--I too am a slave, but
it may be that I can help thee." The girl stilled her sobs to listen. "Hito is a fat swine.
It would give me great joy to foil him."

"I have tried to move him," she said, with a weary hopelessness more suggestive than many words.
"It is because I struggle--" She stopped, biting her lips, her eyes dark with misery. "It is
not me he would have now, but his way," she said forlornly.

"For me to take thy refusal would do no good," said Nicanor, his voice reflective. "Tell thy
lady; surely she will give thee protection."

"Often I have tried to do that," Eldris answered. "Always Nerissa or other women are there
to know what I would have with her; and always they say it is not for me to talk with her unless
she gives command--that I am to tell them and they will carry the word to her. And when I tell,--"
she faltered, with drooping head,--"they laugh, and call me fool, and ask why I should hold
myself too good to do as others have done, and say our lady is not to be troubled with a thing
such as this. That is what they say, and they are worse than he. And I fear him! Oh, I fear
him!" She clenched her hands tightly across her breast and shivered with closed eyes. "By day
I go in dread lest he give command to seize me; by night I start awake lest I see his face
grinning in the dark, even though for weeks at a time he will give me peace and make no sign.
When my service is done, I hide like a rat in its hole, wishing to be seen by none. But he
never forgets, and he never forgives, and I have scorned him. Oh, I would to God that I were dead!"

"Art thou Christian?" Nicanor asked curiously.

"Ay," she answered, without spirit.

"Once I was at a Christian church," said Nicanor.

"Art thou of the faith?" she asked, quickly and eagerly.

"Not I," said Nicanor. "What good may it do a man? And if it doeth no good, any faith will
do to swear by. It hath not done thee much good, this faith of thine, since it leaves thee
in this pass."

"I trust it," she said quietly.

"Nay," said Nicanor, in all seriousness. "It is I whom thou must trust. It is not thy faith
will help thee here, but I, and the wit I have and the strength I have, because I am the only
one near thee. How then, if it be I, can it be thy faith?"

"I trust it," she repeated vaguely, as though she did not quite understand his meaning. He
laughed shortly.

"I had rather trust myself. See now, if the door were opened, couldst thou escape from here?"

"I have no money--nowhere to go," she answered.

Nicanor shook his head.

"Money I have not, but I could see that friends received thee."

She shrugged her shoulders, a gesture half resignation, half despair. And with the movement,
the elusive familiarity returned; the flickering memory leaped to life. Black straight hair,
framing a gray face and burning eyes; a girl, a lean wisp of a thing, with chained wrists and
a ragged frock which only half concealed a long red welt on a brown shoulder--he had seen them
all before. The memory grew and would not be denied; suddenly forced itself into words.

"Art thou she who was bought at Thorney of a slave-driver by one Valerius, and claimed sanctuary
of a Christian cross by the church of Saint Peter?"

Her glance at him was startled.

"Yea; but how dost thou know of it?" she asked in turn.

"I saw thee sold," said Nicanor, and looked at her with new eyes. "When Valerius pursued thee
to the foot of the cross, I ran also. It was I who went for the priest, and came back and found
no one. Often since, I have wondered what became of thee and the folk who had gathered." He
laughed. "But it made a good tale. More than once I have used it, and fitted to it endings
of mine own."

"While I lay grasping the cross, a man in the crowd cried out: 'Girl, the priest cometh! Run
thou quickly to him!' And I, being well-nigh dazed with fear, had no better sense than to spring
up, crying, 'Where?' And no priest was there at all; but the instant my hands were off the
cross that man seized me and ran, and all the crowd ran after to see what might happen next,
some saying it was not just, and others finding it rare good sport. At the river he thrust
me into a boat and gave the man money to row quickly; and since their sport was over, the people
went away. It did not take long." She looked at him with quickened interest, and in her face
also there was new thought.

"So--art thou, then, that teller of tales, whom men call Nicanor of the silver tongue?"

Nicanor laughed again, but softly, all the hardness gone from his grim face, his eyes shining
oddly. Did they indeed call him that?

"I am Nicanor," he said. His quick ears caught a step approaching from the inner rooms. "Some
one comes!" he said warningly, and added, "It is heavy; let me take it to the door."

He picked up the brazier and carried it to the door. Eldris followed, her steps lagging.

"I will wait near until thy duty here is ended," he said in a rapid undertone. "None shall
touch thee this night, I promise thee. As for to-morrow--well, to-morrow is to-morrow, and
there is small use in worrying to-day."

She flashed a glance of gratitude at him and took the brazier. It was too heavy for her, but
she staggered bravely with it across the threshold, and the curtains fell behind her. Nicanor
heard Nerissa's sharp voice from within.

"Why so long, girl? Bring it quickly--thy lady's feet are chilled."

Nicanor lingered a moment, his eyes on the hidden entrance, and turned and went out with his
long and cat-like stride.

In the courtyard one ran against him in the darkness and cursed him soundly. Nicanor, recognizing
the ring of Hito's eloquence, halted and waited for what might come. Hito, in his turn, recognized
him, and changed his tone.

"So, thou? In the dark I did not know thee. Didst find the girl?"

"Ay, I found her," Nicanor answered with indifference. "But she is on duty to-night with our
lady, and knows not when she can get away." He gave a short laugh. "Truly, Hito--since this
is not official!--I had thought thee with an eye for woman-flesh as keen as the best. But that!--At
first I doubted mine own eyes, that thou hadst singled out such an one for thy favor, when
there be others whose better no man could wish. What one can see in long sulky eyes, a gray
face that never smiles, hair like a mare's tail, a body gaunt and spare as a growing boy's--I
cannot say I admire thy taste. Thou, who art so keen a judge of women's beauty, who can pick
and choose from among the fairest--what hath bewitched thee, man?"

"You do not know her!" Hito said sulkily, forced into a defence of his choice. "A creature
all fire and ice--well, I know she hath no beauty, but--I'd not have thee believe it is because
I am no judge. What do I care for the girl? Bah!" He snapped his fingers in contempt. "But
she hath flouted me, defied me,--me, Hito, whose word could send her stripped to the torment,--and
by my father's head I'll break her for it! When I approached her with soft words, these many
weeks ago, she laughed,--mind you that!--and it is dangerous to laugh at Hito. But she will
not laugh when I am through with her! Also she said that she would prefer the rack. A pity
that in this world people cannot always have what they prefer. More than ever I desire her;
I would break her, see her cringe and follow like a beaten hound; and the more she fights me,
the more surely I shall win, and the more my victory shall cost her. That is my way--the way
of Hito!" He licked his thick lips.

"'And the lion said: "I find it rare good sport to hunt a mouse; it is most noble game!"'"
Nicanor quoted. His voice held a taunt.

"No insolence, sirrah!" Hito snarled, instantly suspicious of ridicule. "Because I held speech
with thee to-night, it does not follow that thou art privileged to criticize!"

"If I am insolent, why choose me for your messenger?" Nicanor asked boldly.

Hito slipped an arm about the slave's broad shoulders and patted him.

"Because thou art a man after mine own heart," he said smoothly. "Because I love thee and thy
bold eyes and thy dare-devil recklessness, and would make a friend of thee. Why else? Now,
then, to-morrow thou shalt bring the girl to me. I am minded for an hour's sport with the tiger-cat.
My fingers itch for that lean throat of hers. After, I will give her to thee if it please thee--and
then we'll see what the rack will leave of her beauty." His oily chuckle was diabolic.

"And our lady?" Nicanor suggested. "What will she say when she knows how a handmaiden of hers
hath been disposed of?"

"How will she know," Hito retorted, "when there be a dozen and odd to take her place? A slave
more or less is a small matter in this house." His tone was significant. "So bring her to-morrow
at the noon hour, my friend. I think thou canst find a way! Till then, good-night. The gods
have thee in their keeping!"

"And thee!" Nicanor responded with a grin.

Hito was absorbed into the darkness. Nicanor spat upon the ground where he had stood.

"Rather the gods smite thee with death and ruin!" he muttered. "Now to wait for thy lady. How
well he loves her, in truth!"

He took to pacing up and down the gallery before the storerooms, for the night air was biting
cold, noiseless, a blot of shadow in the darkness. His thoughts wandered from the black-haired
slave girl to her whom they both served; to Marius; to his own plight. How long would it be
before it pleased Marius to speak and snap the jaws of the trap upon him? Why did he hold his
hand? Or had he perhaps already spoken? He knew that if he were to escape at all, the sooner
he made the attempt, the better. His fingers went uncertainly to the collar at his throat.
He could bribe no one to cut it for him; to do it himself would be more than difficult, even
if he could steal the tools. He paused before a door that led into deeper blackness. At the
far end of that passage was another door through which he must enter, where many another had
entered before him, and where he had seen too much of what went on within to expect less for
himself than had fallen to the lot of these. He shrugged his shoulders.

"Even a trapped rat may fight," he muttered, and turned to continue his pacing. Then it was
that he saw a light coming down the gallery, dancing upon the wall; and a group of three approaching,
revealed by a torch in the hands of one. Wary as a buck which scents danger on every breeze,
he drew back into the space between two pillars to wait and watch. And he saw that of the three,
the middle one was Marcus, held fast and struggling, and whimpering like a dog dragged to a
beating.

In the first moment, Nicanor did not understand. Then it grew upon him that this had something
to do with him, and it might be well to find out what. The three passed him and entered at
that door before which Nicanor had paused.

"So--they take him to the torture!" Nicanor muttered. "I think that I shall see the end of this."

Lithe and noiseless as a cat he went after the three down the passage, keeping well out of
range of the flaring torch.

VI

But when he reached the door at the end of the passage, it was closed, and he could only stand
outside and listen. A lamp of pottery, burning wanly on a stone shelf jutting from the wall,
showed the door, low, metal-bound, of tough black oak. He could see nothing, but his ears caught
fragments of sound at intervals from within; a clank of chains, a scraping as of a heavy object
dragged across the floor. He leaned against the wall of the passage, the lamplight on his face,
his figure tense with expectation, his hands quite unconsciously hard clenched. Without warning
there rose from inside a frantic gibbering, meaningless, bestial, horribly shrill. Nicanor
smiled with narrowed eyes.

"Well for me I drew thy sting, old man!" he muttered.

The gibbering broke suddenly into a scream that rang for an instant and stopped short, leaving
blank silence. Nicanor's face sharpened and grew pinched with eagerness; under scowling brows
his eyes took on a strange glitter like the eyes of an animal in the dark. He crouched closer
to the door, his body rigid with the strain of listening. Once more the cry of pain rose, this
time sustained and savage with despair; it choked and gurgled horribly into silence; and rose
again, more agonized, more bitter.

"Perhaps he wishes now he had not entered that garden!" said Nicanor, and laughed low in triumph.
Every nerve was thrilling to the savage lust of blood, half-lost instinct of old days when
men lived and died by blood, when the battle was to the strongest, and life was a victim's
forfeit. He longed to look through the iron-bound door, to see for himself Marcus paying the
price for his temerity. Strangely, he could not bring himself to believe that Marcus was unable
to betray him; it seemed to him as though the man's fearful straining after speech must have
result of some sort. Even though he knew this idea to be absurd, he found himself on edge with
suspense.

The cries became long-drawn, agonized, unceasing. There is but one sound in the world as bad
as the sound of a man's screaming, and that other is the scream of a wounded horse. Nicanor
set his teeth.

"Now they are twisting the cord about his head.... And yet, though they kill him, the poor
fool cannot speak. I have well taken care of that, it appears.... They have him on the stone
table, and his hands are bound. I can see it--oh, ay, I can see it well enough. I can see that
he writhes in torment; and his face--what would his face be? Purple, perhaps; and the cord
about his temples hath bitten through the flesh. There is blood upon his face, and it takes
four men to hold him. Body of me! Who would have thought the old man to have such lungs!"

A smothered exclamation from the semi-darkness beside him sent his hand leaping to the dagger
concealed in his tunic. In the same instant he saw that it was Eldris.

"Who is it?" she whispered fearfully. "Oh, why do they not kill him and have it over! I heard
as I was passing--I had to come!" She clasped her hands over her ears and shuddered. Nicanor
folded his arms across his chest and leaned against the wall, looking down at her. When she
lowered her hands, he said:

"It may be that our lord hath not given command that he die."

"Who is it?" she repeated.

"Marcus," he answered, and saw her draw breath with a quick sob.

"Ah, poor old man! What hath he done to deserve this?"

"Rather it is because he will not--because he cannot do what they would have him," said Nicanor.
His words were reckless, still more his tone; it was even as though he cared not enough about
the matter to hide his knowledge from her.

"Do you know what it is? Oh, if they would but kill him in very pity!" She wrung her hands.

"Ay, I know," said Nicanor.

"Was it his fault?" she asked eagerly. He hesitated, his bold eyes on her face.

"No," he said. "It was not his fault. He was in the right."

She turned on him in horror.

"You know him innocent, and yet you stand here idle while he is done to death!" she cried.
"Oh, go--go quickly and tell them he is not to blame! Make them set him free!" She caught his
arm and he felt her fingers shake. "Are you a coward, that you will listen to his cries when
a word of yours could release him? I had not thought it of you--oh, I had not thought it of you!"

"Suppose a word of mine should set me in his place?" said Nicanor harshly. "Maybe I am coward;
but calling me one will not make me one. Suppose I were in his place; suppose that in my fall
I carried others with me,--others who at all costs must be shielded,--is it not better that
one should suffer than that our world should crash about our ears? He is old and worthless--"

"And you are young and worthy to have his blood spilled for you!" she taunted in a shaking
voice. "I do not understand, it may be, but it seems that this frail old man must suffer that
you, so brave, so powerful, whose life is of so great worth, may go unharmed. Why should you
be set in his place? Is the fault yours? If it be, and you seek shelter behind his helplessness,
you are lower than the cringing curs. Are you afraid, O great and worthy one, to stand forth
and confess your wrong as any man would do?"

She stopped breathless. He looked at her with eyes hot and sullen.

"Now I should like to wring your neck for that!" he said. At the swift ruthless savagery in
his tone the girl shrank back. Nicanor saw and laughed. "Since I may not, I'll take payment
otherhow. As for the old man, let him squeal as best likes him. If they break him on the wheel,
I shall go and tell them how to do it; if they boil him in oil, I shall go and stir the gravy.
Your opinion of the cringing cur should not go unjustified."

The screaming died suddenly into moaning. Eldris covered her face with her hands.

"Oh, but that is worse, if worse can be! Why does he not tell them he knows nothing, has done
nothing? Surely they would let him go! Is he trying, perhaps, to shield you?" Her voice, under
all its fear and pity, was mocking.

"Not he! He would be glad to see me in his place," Nicanor retorted. He laughed a little. "Strange,
is it not, that he doth not tell?--since thumb-screws and argolins soon find a man's limit."

She faced him, gathering all her courage.

"Now do I believe you know more of this than you will say!" she cried.

"Perhaps!" he said boldly. "It is not well to tell all one knows."

"Not even to save a fellow-creature's life! Oh, what are you--brute or man? Man with the speech
of angels--brute with the heart of hell!"

"Perhaps!" said Nicanor again. "Why should I tell you what I am?"

"Do you know, yourself?" she questioned.

His eyes hardened.

"Who can know himself?" he parried, with a shrug of his heavy shoulders. "This much I know--that
I am brute and man, slave and king. At times I am lower than man, who can be lower than any
crawling beast; at times I am more than god, with all the world beneath me. Why? How should
I tell?"

"You, who sing of birds and butterflies, of flowers in Summer, of sunshine and sweet love and
the brightness of life!" she said bitterly and with reproach. "Indeed, you are two men, and
I know not either. One, all men must hate and fear; the other--ah, the other is of the silver
tongue. Why should this be? I can tell no more than you--I can but pray that that black beast
may be tamed and stilled."

"I say I do not know!" Nicanor said sullenly. "And speak we of something else. I am one man,
Nicanor, slave and teller of tales. That is all with which you have concern. And I do not need
praying over."

"Have you no gods?" she asked him, shocked. He looked rather blank at her attack.

"Why, no," he said, and his voice held a faint tinge of surprise. "There are no gods in the
bogs and fens and on the hills where I tended sheep. What gods with any sense would live in
such parts as these? And I knew no need of them. Why should I have learned? When my mother
would tell me of one God whom she worshipped, I would go and play. Is this your God?"

"Ay," she answered, without hesitation. "I think your mother, too, was Christian."

"Maybe," Nicanor answered with indifference. "But he is not the God of the mighty--of none
but slaves and bondsmen and the humble, from all that hath been told to me."

"Of those who are oppressed," she said softly. "Wilt let me tell thee of Him? Of how He was
born in a stable, with wise men journeying from the East, bearing gifts of homage?"

Nicanor looked at her with a gleam of quickening interest.

"Why, that is a tale," he said. "Now I have never heard of this before. Why was he born in
a stable, and what gifts did those wise men bring?"

Within the room the sounds had died, leaving a heavy silence, and neither noticed. For of old
Death young Life is ever heedless; ever the brazen fanfare of life's trumpets drowns the thin
reed-plaint of death. In the passage their voices whispered guiltily.

"Because His mother went to a place which was called Bethlehem, with Joseph her husband, to
pay the taxes, and there was no room at the inn," said Eldris, explaining. "And the angel of
the Lord had told Joseph that these things should be, and that he need not put away Mary as
he was minded to do." She knew the facts of the story she would tell him; give it form and
coherence she could not.

"Who was Mary?"

"The wife of Joseph."

"Why put her away?"

"Because the Child was to be born."

Nicanor drew his heavy eyebrows to a scowl of intense perplexity.

"Now why should he put her away for doing what all good wives should do?"

"Because her child was the Son of God, and at first Joseph did not--"

"And not the son of Joseph!" cut in Nicanor. His voice became all at once enlightened. "Now
by my head, this is a quaint tale thou tellest! So the God you Christians worship was a--"

"Oh!" cried Eldris; and the shock in her voice cut his words short. "Never say it! You do not
understand! It was a miracle!"

"A miracle--well, that is different," said Nicanor. "I have told tales of miracles, for such
things may be. And so--?"

"For it had been foretold that One should be born, of a pure virgin, who should redeem the
world and take upon Himself the sins and sorrows of all men. So an angel told Mary that she
was blessed among women--but I think that she was frightened."

Nicanor nodded, as one in entire understanding. In place of the hard glitter of his eyes had
come a certain luminosity as though from inner fires, an odd deep shining; his face was keen
with a lively interest.

"And so--what happened then?" he questioned her, even as men, so many times before, had questioned
him.

"Yet she was glad, for that she was chosen to bring peace into the world," recounted Eldris.
"So they went into Bethlehem, and all the inns were full. But Mary could go no farther, and
they went into a stable, where oxen and cattle were stalled. And there the Child was born;
and men say that a great star in the sky guided shepherds who fed their flocks upon the moors
to that stable where He lay. And it is told that three Kings came out of the East, laden with
perfumes and gifts for him who was to be the Saviour of the world."

"Kings," Nicanor repeated, musing. "Then would they be clothed bravely, with jewels and fine
linen, and this would make good contrast with the stable. Go on. What did they when they came
into the stable?"

"They marvelled greatly that He whom they had journeyed to seek should be but a new-born babe,
and they bowed down and worshipped."

"Paid homage," said Nicanor, following out his own train of thought. "Ay, it is a good tale,
but as I have heard it, it lacketh something--what? I must think of that. It hath no point,
no pivot on which to hang the whole. For, look you, a tale is built as any other thing is built;
it must have its parts balanced; it must have cause, and meaning, and effect. This hath a beginning,
but it leads nowhere, without end."

"But it hath no end," said Eldris, not understanding. "And it can have no end until the end
of time. For it was but the beginning; and the little Jesus that lay in the manger is He who
liveth and reigneth above all gods--"

"Now I care not for the little Jesus!" said Nicanor, gruff with impatience. "It is the tale
I would get at--the tale! Well, it will come, as always it hath come before. On a night I will
wake to find it full-grown in my head and clamoring at my tongue. Now we will go, or that fat
lover of thine will be upon us."

Brought back to the present and its portents, Eldris bent her head, listening.

"Why, the cries have ceased," she said.

"Ay, this long time past," said Nicanor carelessly. "How much, think you, human flesh and blood
can stand?"

"Is he dead?" she asked, startled.

"I hope so!" said Nicanor. "Nay then, I do not care, which is nearer truth. If I do not fear
a fangless serpent in the grass, why should I fear him?"

There was sudden movement behind the door; before either could think of flight it opened, showing
the room within. A still figure on the raised slab of stone, for centre of the picture, with
two half-stripped Africans beside it; three figures coming doorward: and these were Eudemius,
and Marius, and the physician Claudius. Eudemius, his face pinched and gray, leaned tottering
with weakness on the arms of the other two; behind them walked a slave with a great peacock
fan, and another slave was waiting at the door. At once Nicanor clapped his hardened hand over
the thin flame of the lamp on the shelf, and the passage where they stood was plunged in darkness.
Before the three lords had reached the threshold, he had drawn the girl out of sight behind
one of the squat pillars of the passage. Perhaps no harm would come to them, even were they
discovered; but he had reasons for wishing to take no chances. The three passed by unheeding,
Eudemius stumbling and cursing because the passage was dark. When they had gone, Nicanor went
into the room, where the slaves were busy. Eldris stood hesitating on the threshold, afraid
to enter, unwilling to go.

"He is dead, is he?" Nicanor asked, and went and stood over the broken body on the stone slab.

One of the Africans grinned, showing strong white teeth beneath his yellow turban.

"Our lord was a devil to-night," he said. "The madness was on him, and he would have blood.
But look you; here is a strange thing." With ungentle hands he forced open the dead jaws, not
yet stiffened in the rigor of death. "Now sure this be a miracle, for mine own ears heard him
speak but yesterday."

"So?" said Nicanor, with lifted brows. "Now I should have said a week ago, or maybe two. Ay,
if you heard him speak yesterday, it was sure a miracle. Likely he hath done something displeasing
to his gods."

The slaves carried the limp body away, and others came and resanded the floors.

The chamber was circular, of rough blocks of stone, with two doors. Opposite the one where
Eldris stood was a raised dais where were two chairs and a flaring cresset on a tall standard.
Around the walls hung instruments of war, of torture, and of the chase; chains with heavy balls
of iron attached; a stand of spears, and another of great bronze swords, leaf-shaped and burnished.
A collection of daggers hung upon the walls, with the terrible short knives worn by the Saxons,
each with the two nicks in the blade which would leave a ragged and dreadful wound. Here also
were great six-foot bows, such as the Numidian archers used; and suits of armor in corium and
in bronze, with shields and breastplates and crested helmets of brass and iron. Here was a
narrow bed, of wood and iron, with bolts and screws for tearing muscle from muscle and joint
from joint. Nicanor, with grim humor, had called this the bridal bed, and the name would stick
to it forever. And here, higher than a man's height above the floor, was a leaden tank with
a water-cock, from which would fall water, drop by drop, hour by hour, into a leaden basin
with a drain-pipe sunk into the floor. Once Nicanor had seen a man sit screaming there for
untold hours, chained to a stone bench, with water dripping, drop by drop, upon his shaven
skull. He had used this upon a day, in a tale he had told in the wine-shop of Nicodemus; and
men had shuddered and drawn back from him as from one possessed of unholy powers. And Nicanor,
looking at this now, and with that terrible gift of his seeing himself chained and screaming
in that other's place, set his teeth and muttered:

"I shall leave this house this night."

But he did not, for he was but mortal, and subject, like other mortals, to the decree of the
goddess Fate.

For as the slaves went out of the other door with their buckets of sand, Nicanor heard a cry
from where the girl stood in the entrance to the passage; a cry sharp and quick, as he had
heard a rabbit squeal in the trap. He wheeled and saw her shrinking inside the doorway, her
hands before her face, and over her Hito standing, his little pig's eyes alight.

Now the girl was nothing to Nicanor; he could have cursed her roundly for getting in his way
and perplexing him with her troubles when he had need of all his wit to save himself. He would
have vented his displeasure upon her as readily as upon Hito. He was not chivalrous; if she
had pleased his fancy he would quite surely have pursued her as relentlessly as the steward.
But he had said, "None shall touch thee this night"; and he would maintain his word not because
he wanted to, but because he must.

"Keep your hands off her!" he said savagely, as Hito stooped. His hands were clenched, his
black brows lowering, his mood, plainly, was not to be trifled with. That he should pay for
his temerity he knew as well as Hito; but since he was lost in any case, he considered that
a little more or less would make small difference.

"What have you to say about it?" Hito snarled. "Did I not send you for the girl? Quartus! Sporus!
Come back, ye knaves, and bind me this fellow!"

But Nicanor, with a bound like a tiger cat's, flung himself on the door, slammed it shut, and
locked it. And he had need of all his quickness, for he was playing fast and loose with death.
Hito yelled and started for the second door through which he had come and near which the girl
was crouching. But again Nicanor was too quick. He got between Hito and the door and stood
ready to shut it,--erect, defiant, every muscle tense to spring. He would die, that was certain,
but he would give somebody trouble first. Now Hito was fat and scant of breath, and Hito was
soft with good living and much ease; and when he was cornered, he turned not rat, but rabbit.
Moreover, he had seen this lean devil of a slave in action before and he remembered it. So
he stopped and merely yelled again for Quartus and Sporus.

Without taking his eyes off the overseer, Nicanor put out his hand and pulled the girl to him.

"If you swoon, I shall kill you!" he muttered, stooping until he could whisper in her ear.
"Go to Thorney in the Fords, and find there Nicodemus the One-Eyed, who keeps a wine-shop.
Tell him I sent you. I cannot hold our friend here for long, but it is all that I can do. You
know what it will mean to be caught and brought back." He raised his voice somewhat, so that
Hito should hear apparently without his meaning it. "Go to your room and lock yourself in.
We shall see what our lord has to say to such doings!"

He held the door ajar, and pushed the girl through, and closed it, but in the lock there was
no key. Hito sneered.

"Clever lad! 'Go to your room and lock yourself in!' Hast thought what will happen when she
must come out? 'See what our lord has to say to such doings!' Hast thought that what he will
say will be through me? What else didst tell the girl? Answer, son of an ill-famed mother,
or the rack shall question for me!"

Nicanor said nothing. His ears strained for approaching footsteps, but the walls were thick,
and many had cried for help before and none had heard them. He had no plan; he had given the
girl what chance he could, and it was all that he could do. If she could not help herself--well,
there would be one more to cross the threshold of fate. His only thought was to give her what
time he could. Let her once get away from the house, and over the frozen ground it would be
hard to find her trail until morning.

Hito took it in his head to make a dash. He started for the door, shouting at the top of his
lungs for help. Nicanor barred his passage, silent and inexorable. He did not raise hand against
Hito, but stood like a rock against the fat one's futile pummellings. For to strike a superior
meant, for a slave, instant and lawful death. Hito would none the less maintain that he had
been struck, but Nicanor could not help that. So that Hito battered until his fists were sore;
and Nicanor stood and took it silently, with set jaws and eyes gleaming like a wolf's in his
dark face. He could not hope to keep Hito there much longer. The latter, wearied at length
and puffing, sat on the edge of that grim bridal bed and cursed Nicanor by all the evil gods.
After this, when his invention gave out, he fell silent and sat and stared at the tall figure
that guarded the door, with his little eyes half closed. But quite suddenly those eyes flew
wide with astonishment. For the figure against the door had begun to sway from side to side,
gently and rhythmically, with a low mutter of incoherent words. Hito looked again, somewhat
startled. The slave's face was set and blank; his eyes stared straight ahead and were dull
and without lustre.

"The gods save us!" Hito muttered, watching uneasily. "Hath the man a fit?"

"See them coming!" said Nicanor. His finger pointed here and there, and in spite of himself,
Hito's eyes followed it. "Bright maidens, flower-crowned, robed in gauze. Ah, flee not, sweet
ones!" He stretched his hands imploringly. "Whence come ye, from the mist? See the mist, how
it rises, full of dreams which are to come to men. Are ye dreams, ye radiant ones? No, for
ye do not vanish. Ha! I have thee, lovely nymph! and thou shalt find my arms as strong to hold
as the gods' from whom thou camest. Unveil thyself, sweet, and let me see thy face. It should
be fair, with so fair a form. So--thou thinkest to escape and fly from me?"

He sprang forward, hands outstretched, almost upon Hito, who turned with a yelp of alarm, and
dodged. Nicanor started back as one in sudden surprise.

"Ha, Julia, sweet friend!" he cried. "Who sent thee here to me, with thy scarf of gold and
pearl, thy raven locks and thy dewy lips, with bells upon thine ankles, and a tambour in thy
hand? See, our lord cometh! Let us dance for him that perhaps we may find favor in his sight."

Standing in front of Hito he began to dance, his hands hanging limp at his sides, his face
utterly without expression. Hito gasped.

"What hath come to thee?" he quavered. "Fool--come to thy senses before thou art flogged back
to them."

"Dance with me, sweet maiden!" said Nicanor; and suddenly caught Hito's fat and helpless hands
in his lean brown ones and danced down the length of the room with him. Perforce, since he
could not struggle free, Hito ran alongside, dragging back unwillingly, his face gray with
fright. At the end of the room Nicanor turned and danced back again, dragging his captive.

"Dance, fair Julia, dance!" he cried; and in his gyrations brought without warning his nail-spiked
sandal down on Hito's foot. Hito bellowed and danced upon one foot with pain, and once dancing,
found that he could not stop.

"Let me go!" he panted, furious. "Slave--thou madman--let me go, I say! I do not wish to dance--I
will not dance!"

"Not when our lord commands it?" cried Nicanor, breathing hard himself. "Why, then, I do not
wish to dance either. But since he saith 'Dance,' dance I must, and so must thou, sweet girl!"

"I am no girl!" shrieked Hito, haled off down the room again. "I am Hito, and I command that
you stop!"

"Now why give me lies like that?" said Nicanor. "Have I not eyes which have long hungered for
thy beauty? Do I not know thee, Julia the dancing girl?"

"Thou art mad in very truth! Good Nicanor--sweet Nicanor--let me go, and I'll swear to keep
between us this tale of thy doings!"

Nicanor answered nothing. Always his face was blank, but his grip on Hito's wrists was iron.
Up and down the room he went, leaping, dancing; and up and down went Hito after him, struggling,
sobbing for breath, his unwieldy bulk trembling with fright and weariness. When his steps slackened,
through sheer inability to keep up, Nicanor, with a bound forward, dragged him after, so that,
to save himself from falling on his face, he bounded also, on his fat legs, with explosive
grunts of breathlessness.

Without warning Nicanor increased his speed and danced faster. He also was panting hard, the
strain of towing two hundred odd pounds of unwilling flesh being great. His arms and shoulders
shone with sweat; on his forehead his hair was plastered and damp.

"Julia, Julia," he cried, "I pray you stop! I can dance no more. Thou art trained to this work,
but I--I faint with weariness. Though our lord flay me, I can dance no more!"--and danced the
faster.

"Stop! I stop!" gasped Hito, purple in the face. "Deae matres! Am I not trying to stop? Stop
thyself, or I die! I am exhausted--I have no breath--have a little pity--Oh, nay, nay, I did
not mean it! It is as thou sayest, of course! I--was wrong--to thwart thee! I will do whatever
thou sayest, if thou wilt let me go! I--I do not think our lord--likes to see--such rapid motion.
It maketh his head to swim. I, Julia, pray thee, not--quite--so fast!"

He lurched and nearly fell, and Nicanor jerked him up again. There was the noise of a door
being opened. Nicanor knew it must be the door leading to the passage, since the other was
locked. He dropped Hito, who crumpled into an abject heap upon the floor, past speech or motion,
and went on dancing by himself. From the tail of his eye he saw Wardo the Saxon and Quartus
enter and stand gaping, dumb with amazement. Hito shook his fist at them from the floor and
stuttered. When breath enough had entered into him, he screamed at them.

"Bind me this madman! He hath a devil in him. Hold him, I say, until I can speak!"

"Why, he's mad!" said Wardo, staring in awe at Nicanor, who, expressionless, danced invincibly.

"Thou sayest!" Quartus agreed, and stared also. "What hath seized him? Here, lad, what means
all this? Stop thy prancing and say what thou hast done to our lord Hito, here."

But Nicanor answered nothing, and danced.

"Chain him!" wheezed Hito. "Stop him, or I shall go mad, also, with looking at him! I'll have
him strung by the thumbs for this!"

And so it had been done, instantly, madness or no madness, since Hito's word was law, and Hito
was very wrathful, but that interruption came from a quarter least expected. A tall figure
blocked the open doorway, and a deep voice said:

"What is the meaning of all this?"

Every slave knew it for the voice of their lord's guest, and every slave wheeled and crossed
his arms before his face, and wondered what their lord's guest should be doing there,--every
slave except Nicanor, who still danced doggedly. It would have needed a quick eye to see that
his step had faltered, if never so slightly.

"This fellow hath a devil, lord!" said Hito, with an effort at coherency. "Me he did force
to dance until I am no better than dead. He called me Julia and made me to dance with him so
that my life fainted in me. He is mad--most mad--and I will have him strung--"

Marius looked at Nicanor, and in his face was recognition and a merciless triumph. He broke
Hito's speech midway.

"Who is this fellow?"

"Lord, he is called Nicanor," said Hito. "And he is mad--"

Again Marius's face changed, back to its former haughty calm, in which was mingled a certain
satisfaction.

"So--Nicanor, is it? I have seen men seized this way before." He spoke to Hito, but his eyes
were on Nicanor. "Most commonly it is the effect of over-severe discipline, but it may be that
there are other causes. Then if he is mad, friend Hito, it might be better not to slay him
lest the gods take vengeance for him upon you. Were it not best to take him to the dungeons?
So, you may see how long this madness of his will last; and when it is past will be the time
to punish." His tone assumed sudden authority. "Look to it that you harm him in no manner,
but hold him fast where you may deliver him at your lord's word. It will be your life for his
life--remember that."

He gathered his cloak about him and strode away, and the three looked after him with wonder
in their faces. Hito was first to voice it.

"Our lives for his life, is it?" he grunted. "So, master slave, you would be important, it
seems. What have you done now, that our lord's favorite should give such orders for you? You'll
not cheat me for long--promise you that! A little while and he'll forget you; so my turn will
come. Quartus, put the chains upon him and take him to the cells."

"Please you, we are told to harm him in no manner," Wardo ventured. Nicanor had done many a
good turn to the fair-haired Saxon, as one comrade to another, and Wardo was not one to forget
it. "Were he in chains, he would soon fret himself into worse raving, and likely do himself harm."

"Bring him without, then!" said Hito. The two seized Nicanor, and Wardo winked at him behind
Hito's back, as the latter got painfully to his feet. Nicanor submitted, sullenly. He, who
had trusted to no man save himself, was forced to pin what faith he might to the hint of succor
that lay in Wardo's wink. And this was but a frail straw to trust.

They took him along a side passage behind the storerooms, down damp and slippery steps to the
depths of the cellars. Here were the dungeons, half of masonry, half of living rock, whose
walls glistened with slime where the torchlight fell upon them. They thrust him into the smallest
of the cells, and left him.

The light of their torch was shut out with the slamming of the iron door; and darkness, dense
and tangible, fell upon him in a reeking pall.

Nicanor spoke aloud, with a laugh that jarred on the heavy stillness.

"When friend Hito gains wind enough after his gambollings to remember that lean lady of his,
she should be far enough away to snap her fingers at him. So, the rat is trapped at last. Now
to see whether he can fight or no; for if he cannot, he'll have no chance to try again."

Then silence fell; and other rats, boldened by the darkness, began to come forth to peer at
the intruder in their midst.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE LORD'S DAUGHTER AND THE ONE WHO WENT IN CHAINS

BOOK IV

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Book IV

THE LORD'S DAUGHTER AND THE ONE WHO WENT IN CHAINS

I

Marius rejoined Eudemius in his library.

"I have given command to have the slave Nicanor sent to the cells," he said. "It was he, as
I have just found, of whom the Lady Varia spoke in the early evening. When we left the torture
chamber, it is now two hours ago, I saw him in the passage outside, with another, a woman,
I think. He put out the lamp in the passage, but I saw him first. It is as well to catch our
bird before he flies, as without doubt he will now try to do, finding himself discovered, and
keep him safely nested until we want him. He is a surly brute, but I know a way to get what
we want out of him."

"And that is?" said Eudemius.

"Salt food and no water," said Marius curtly. "I have tried it before, in camp. We will let
him recover from this so-called madness, first. But you said you would speak with me. I am
at your command."

Eudemius shook his head.

"Not to-night," he said. "I am over tired, and it grows late. To-morrow, perhaps. Did the Africans
tell me that the old man Marcus is dead?"

"They did," Marius answered, somewhat surprised at the question. "Undoubtedly he was mad, for
never did I see such actions in a sane man."

"And you believe that the gods will take vengeance on me for having brought to pass the death
of such a haunted one?" Eudemius asked unexpectedly.

Marius shrugged.

"I did not say that," he answered. "Maybe they will, maybe not. If you believe that they will,
it is probable that they will do so."

Eudemius laughed. As quickly he became grave once more.

"I had not meant to kill him! I was fond of him--I was even going to give him gold and have
put upon him the pileus of a freedman, for he hath served me well. He had belonged to Constantia,
my wife. Perhaps it was I who was mad to-night. Sometimes I have thought--I must ask Claudius
if there is prospect of that--" He broke off. "Pardon! I forgot, and thought aloud. To-morrow
I shall be myself, but to-night I am shaken. If you will excuse me, I shall leave you. The
house is at your service, if you do not choose to retire yet. Summon Mycon--he shall fill Marcus's
place--and give what commands you will."

"I think that I shall follow your example," Marius said, and stifled a yawn, "if you will tell
me how to reach my rooms from here through these labyrinthine passages of yours. This part
of the house I do not know well."

Eudemius looked at him in silence a moment, so that Marius thought he had not heard his question.
He was about to repeat it, when Eudemius said:

"From this door go to your left, until you come to the gallery which runs along the northern,
not the southern, end of the large court. Go down this to your right, and you will reach your
own apartments. Vale!"

Marius took his leave, wishing his host good rest. He strolled through halls on which looked
numberless rooms, furnished richly, warm and silent, waiting for the guests who never came.
Not a servant was in sight; the silence of midnight wrapped the place in slumber. Lamps, swinging
from tall standards or from the ceilings, shed a mellow light around; his feet pressed rich
woven rugs which hid the mosaic pavements beneath. Around him was a golden perfumed stillness.
He went more slowly, steeping his senses in the aroma of luxury.

"How a man might welcome his friends to such a house as this!" he muttered. "I can see them
here around me--Fabian, Julius, Volux, all the rest. Ye gods, how the walls would echo! Now
it all lies fallow, its wealth unknown, its treasures unseen. It should be used--ay, used to
the very top notch of its value. Where is the use of paintings, marbles, rugs, halls, gardens,
wealth such as this, with none to enjoy them all, save a dying man and a fair-faced fool?"
His thin lips tightened. The seed Eudemius had planted was springing to lusty growth. "And
they are mine, all mine, for the taking. By the soul of my mother, I will take them! I shall
give feasts here such as Lucullus might have envied; I can win what legion and what station
I will; whatever fields Rome hath left unconquered, I shall conquer for her. From the field
I can reach the forum, with a name which without wealth I could never gain. The times are changing;
it is time that men changed with them."

The words died upon his lips. He had reached a glass door, leading into the small room formed
by the angle of the north and east galleries which flanked the court. This room, screened like
the gallery, by glass walls from the outer air, was filled with plants, answering in some sort
to a conservatory. Such rooms, used for different purposes and varied as to furnishing, were
at all the angles of the galleries. Marius, looking through the half-open door, thought that
the place seemed unfamiliar, and began to fear he had taken the wrong way. Yet he had followed
closely the directions of Eudemius. He was about to turn back when his eye fell on some one
asleep close by the window which overlooked the court.

"My lady herself, in very fact. This will be the second time I have waked her. Without doubt,
Fate hath willed it so. What may she be doing here at this hour, without her women? Watched
to see some one enter the court, perhaps, and dropped asleep. To see whom? Did she know, by
chance, that I must pass this way from her father's rooms?"

He opened the door softly and entered. But the slight noise aroused Varia. She sat up, rubbing
her eyes.

"Is it not late for such solitary communing, sweet friend?" Marius asked, approaching. He saw
that she was in a plain robe of sheerest white, ungirdled; that her hair fell loose, undecked
with jewels, that her feet were bare. "Perhaps you wait for some one?"

She sat on the edge of the couch, her hands clasped in her lap, betraying no smallest consciousness
of the unconventionality of her appearance. Her white feet against the deep crimson of the
rug held his eyes.

"Oh, no!" she said sweetly. "Besides, if I did, should I tell you?"

He found himself again in the attitude of treating her as a child; felt again his baffled perplexity
at her glance, veiled and sidelong, which was not a child's glance.

He bent toward her. The time had come to crown his schemes of high ambition, and the gods had
thrown opportunity in his way.

"Was it for me you waited?" he asked boldly. He was prepared for indignation, repulsion, anything
except what followed. She dropped her eyes, leaning a trifle away from him.

"And--if it were?" she murmured. He stared an instant, and seized his chance.

"I should thank the gods and you, sweet one, and do my best to show appreciation," he said;
and sat down on the couch beside her.

"But it was not!" she cried hastily, and moved farther away. In spite of himself Marius's lips
twitched to a smile. As she retreated, he advanced.

"No? But it was I who came!" he said, his keen eyes on her. But her look did not falter. "You
waited because the gods willed that I should come to you," he said, speaking rapidly, since
she showed signs of nervousness. "And I have come, to plead my love, and to ask yours in return.
Once before were we interrupted when I tried to speak; now the chance is mine at last. You
shall anoint my door with wolf's fat and rule at my hearth as wife. Your father wishes it--he
would be glad to see our love blossom into flower. Say, wilt thou love me, sweet?"

But Varia sprang to her feet, clasping her hands over her ears.

"Love--love!" she cried fretfully. "Nay, I have had enough of love!"

Marius laughed aloud.

"So, thou strange beauty? Maybe, but I have not. And I think there is still something left
for thee to learn. Dost remember a game I was to teach thee once--a game which two can play?"

She interrupted him, standing poised as though for flight, her head on one side, a smile touching
her crimson lips, her veiled eyes glancing sidewise into his.

"Nay--I remember?" she said with a rippling laugh. "Why now, how should I remember, my lord?
Am I not a fool?"

His glance was somewhat taken aback.

"Fool or not, I love thee, pretty witch, and thou shalt be my wife."

She shook her head, and the laughter died from her face, leaving it startled.

"Thy wife? Wife to thee? Oh, no! I cannot be that!"

"Oh, yes! Thou canst and must and shalt be that! I'll not let thee go so lightly!" He advanced
upon her, but she stretched out a white naked arm to full length, a finger pointing at him,
and he stopped. Just why, he did not pause to think.

"Nay, my lord!" she said, and her voice took on the haunting tones which had so perplexed her
father. "That I am not as other girls I know right well. Why, then, should my lord desire me
for wife? Thou dost not love me. Were I thy wife, I must love thee, and I do not wish to love
thee. I could say,--what are the words?--always and ever they are ringing in my heart,--'Where
thou art, Caius, there am I, Caia,' with my lips as well as with my heart, but not to thee--oh,
not to thee!" She flung out her arms with a gesture of sudden wild abandonment, and clasped
them over her eyes. Her voice broke in a storm of tears. "Now--woe is me!--all I can say is
'Where art thou, Caius?' I have waited so long--so long!"

"But he is here at last," said Marius, and took her hand.

She wept softly, with hanging head, making no effort to get away.

"I will pray my lord father that he force me not to become wife to thee!"

"Thy lord father gives command that thou shalt become wife to Marius since he desires thee,
and to no other man!" said Eudemius's voice behind them. Marius wheeled, as Varia gave a startled
cry and wrenched her hand free. Eudemius came into the room, his face changed as no living
soul had seen it changed until then.

"I feared that thou hadst not taken the right way back," he said to Marius, and there was a
shade of significance in his tone. "Therefore--I came to see."

"Father, say I need not be wife to him!" cried Varia, bold in her terror.

"Why not?" Eudemius asked harshly. "What reason lies behind thy refusal?"

"I do not know!" she stammered. "I know only that I would not wed with him. I love him not--"

"Love! what hath love to do with it? And what know you of love, little fool?" said Eudemius,
with impatience.

Varia started forward, catching desperately at the straw.

"Thou hast said it!" she cried stormily. "I am fool--fool--fool--fit wife for no man! Who wants
to wed a fool?"

"Be silent! I'll teach thee--" Eudemius exclaimed, but Marius interposed.

"Pray thee--father--leave the taming of this wild bird to me!" he said, and emphasized the
word, and watched. He had judged subtly. Eudemius turned to him, his hands out, his stern face
broken up and working. He patted Marius's shoulders with shaking hands, and leaned forward
and kissed him on the forehead.

"My son--oh, my son, my son!" he cried.

But Varia, unnoticed of either, cast herself upon the couch and wept, her face hidden in its
silken cushions.

Livinius came from his sickroom and joined them in a week, and was told the news. From his
face it was apparent that he was pleased, and that in spite of all his words, the match would
be very well to his liking. But when he got Marius alone, which was difficult, since Eudemius
would scarce let his prospective son-in-law out of his sight, he spoke to him with all seriousness.

"It will be a great thing for thee, my son; thou canst carve out for thyself what career thou
wilt. I am pleased; thou art pleased; Eudemius--why, for Eudemius, he is a changed man utterly."

"Truly, he is," Marius agreed. "Who could dream that behind that iron mask of his there dwelt
such affection, such store of human kindness?"

"All for thee, lad," said Livinius. His tone, with all its pride, held a tinge of sadness.
"It brings the water to my eyes to watch the new nature struggling in him with the old. He
hath pinned all his faith and hope to thee. Be thou worthy of the trust."

"Ay, so I will," said Marius readily. He shook himself with a quick breath. "And the task will
be no easy one, father mine. I do not feel myself at all a cuckoo stealing into a nest ready
feathered. What I get I shall pay for, in degree, if not in kind. There will be three men's
work in handling this estate."

"And the one who is most nearly touched in this?" said Livinius. "She whose poor little hands
are weighted with the gold of which she knows nothing, whose child's head is filled with dreams
in which thou hast no part?"

"Oh, Varia?" said his son. "I suppose it is no worse for her than for other women. She shall
have all that I can give to content her. Father, it is a strange thing about that child. When
I am away from her, I will own that her memory doth not linger over long with me. But when
I am with her, she bewitches me. I know not what else to call it. Always I am trying to probe
her; always I find myself foiled and baffled when I think that I have found the clew to her
mystery. If ever she should waken from this state of hers.... At present she is angry, and
I have not seen her for two days. That may be, but she forgets that soon it will not be for
her to say whether I shall see her or whether not."

His lips tightened; in his dark eyes a yellow spark flashed and died. Livinius glanced at him,
smiled, and held his peace.

It was even as Livinius had said. Eudemius was, if not a changed man, at least a changing one.
Sombre his face would always be; Fate had bitten too deep for the scars ever to be smoothed
away. But with the haunting fear removed that his name and fortune should fall into unworthy
hands, he seemed to have shaken off ten years of nightmare trouble. His voice began to lose
its bitter harshness; for the first time his slaves no longer trembled at his glance. His attitude
toward Marius was curious--also, in view of his nature, touching. On Marius he lavished all
the pride and tenderness of an adoring father to his son, and of both there was more than anyone
had guessed. He worshipped Marius openly, gloried in him exultingly, and was fiercely and suppressedly
jealous of Livinius's prior right. He hung on Marius's every word; shared his sports and hunting;
tried to regain a moment of his lost youth that he might be a comrade as well as a father.
At times a strange mood took him, when he, Eudemius the proud, became humbly grateful that
Marius should be willing to mate with the ill-starred daughter of his house. In general they
accepted each other on terms of complete equality. Each was receiving and conferring a favor;
there was no debt on either side.

Marius found himself not in the least embarrassed by his superfluity of parents. He adjusted
himself to the circumstances with tact and a sympathetic consideration which would scarcely
have been expected of him. He managed the two fathers with consummate skill, divided his attentions
honorably between them, and played the role of demigod to perfection. When Livinius and Eudemius
were together, he was circumspect, careful lest he arouse parental jealousy on either side;
but when he and Eudemius were alone, he cast aside restraint and called him "father" to Eudemius's
heart's content. More and more the two came to lean on the ready strength of him; since it
is the law of life that the old, for all their wisdom and the experience of their years, shall
inevitably come to look for support and guidance to the young, who enter the lists unproven
in all but strength.

Six months at least must elapse before Marius could lawfully claim what was already his in
fullest measure. There were endless settlements to be made, for Eudemius was determined that
nothing should be left undone which would assure the maintenance of his name and fortune. Marius's
heirs must take the name, even as he himself must do; the gold and lands must be protected
so far as human means might devise. Eudemius had lawyers from the famous law-school at Eboracum,
and spent long hours in his library, poring over deeds and instruments. There must be an exact
accounting of his estates in Britain and in Rome; houses, lands, personal effects, and slaves.
Also, since an imperial alliance could have been effected with scarcely greater pomp and circumstance
than Eudemius planned, six months was the shortest time in which the festivities could be arranged.

"While I live," said Eudemius, in one of their daily talks together, "I shall retain nominal
control as head of the family. When you write Diis manibus over me, every denarius will belong
to you and the heirs of your body forever. But should the gods of the shades claim me before
you are legally my inheritor, all will revert to our lord the emperor as guardian of the girl,
to be parcelled out among his minions, and there will be left nothing. Therefore my haste."

With this, Marius had entire sympathy. He also welcomed the speed with which the business was
being put through. If Eudemius had changed, Marius was changing also. For no man can look on
power well-nigh as limitless as any man below a sovereign may wield, knowing that power between
his own hands for good or ill, and not become either a despot or a chastened man. And there
comes a moment in the transition when it is doubtful which role will fit. Marius, in the natural
course of events, had reached this stage. He was sobered at the prospect opening before him;
withal his ambition was mounting by leaps and bounds. There seemed nothing which he could not
do. He thrilled at the contemplation of the position which would be his; for he was human and
Roman, and power, and still more power, was as the breath of life to his nostrils. And he thrilled
again at the absolute confidence placed in his integrity by Eudemius; for he was honorable,
and that his honor should remain untarnished as his sword was the only law to which he owned.
But since this would generally serve all other purposes, it sufficed.

II

Over the marshes twilight was falling. The sun had set; the western sky was tinged with cold
pale lemon; further, where the color faded into the dusky dome of night, hung a wan evening
star. The land was snow-bound and desolate as far as the eye could see. The marsh-ford was
glazed with a thin sheet of ice, through which, by the banks, clumps of black frozen reeds
protruded. Through this ice, much broken by wheels, dark shallow water showed. On the other
side of Thorney the river flowed sluggish and sullen, ice-bound along its banks. Midstream,
making slow way to the island, a round clumsy coracle, such as were used by fishermen, was
paddling, the only vessel abroad. In it sat two persons, the boatman and Eldris. She sat huddled
forlornly in the coracle's bottom, shivering in her long black cloak.

Two carts creaked from the high-road down to the marsh-ford on the northern side of the island,
and labored through, their drivers muffled to the eyes in cloaks with heavy hoods drawn close
around their faces. On the island itself men appeared at intervals in the alleys between the
houses. There were few camp-fires on the beach, showing that those who had come had nearly
all found shelter within the houses. The air was keenly cold and very still, so that sounds
carried clearly; but, unaccountably, there were few sounds. At this, the busiest time of the
day, Thorney seemed strangely silent.

The coracle grounded gently on the beach, almost at the moment that the carts entered the ford
on the opposite side of the island. Eldris stepped ashore, gave a bit of money to the boatman,
who spat on it and cursed. She asked faintly:

"Canst tell me, friend, where might be the wine-shop of one Nicodemus?"

But the man, plainly considering that he had given good measure for the wage he had received,
was surly.

"Near the end of this street that runs straight back from the beach to the other side," he
answered briefly, and heaved his boat of bull's hide and wicker to his back, and went off,
waiting for no further questioning. Eldris looked after him in half resentful reproach, and
started up the street which cut across the island from ford to ford, walking slowly like one
faint and weary from long continued exertion. In all the length of the street she saw no one
who might direct her to the wine-shop. It was deserted, save for stray prowling dogs that nosed
and shivered among heaps of refuse. Lights showed through chinks from behind closed doors of
houses; there was a smell of cooking in the air; at times a low-pitched growl of talk or muffled
boisterous laughter reached her.

Dusk was deepening fast and the cold was bitter. Eldris stumbled on toward the end of the street,
her eyes searching the houses on either hand. When but three remained between her and the open
strip of beach on the marsh side, she paused irresolute. One was a low and vulgar place, its
door fast closed, no light to be seen about it. The second was a half burnt ruin, where cattle
had been stalled. The third seemed of somewhat better class. It presented a blank wall to the
street, broken only by a low and narrow door with a wicket, betraying nothing. Eldris, still
hesitating, saw two carts, growing out of the gloom ahead, coming toward her. She heard the
thud of the horses' feet on the frozen ground, the creak of wheels and straps, finally the
voices of the drivers.

"Surely they will know this Nicodemus," she said, and started forward to hail them, when a
word of one carter, shouted back to the other, a few yards to the rear, transfixed her where
she stood and sent her shivering with fright as well as cold.

"Quicker, man, or we'll get no bed this night. Hito will have something to say to us for the
hours we've been away, I'm thinking."

Swift terror seized on Eldris at the word. That there might be two Hitos in the country she
never stopped to think. These were Eudemius's men; if they saw her, they would report to Hito
at the house; she would be searched for, overtaken, and suffer the fate of captured runaway
slaves. In a panic she fled back to the blank-walled house and beat upon the door.

Instantly it was opened. In her excitement she had time for no surprise at this, no feeling
but relief that no time was lost. As the carters drew abreast of the door, she slipped within
and slammed it shut.

"Well!" said the one who had opened. "What are you trying to do?"

"Pardon!" Eldris stammered. "There were men passing--"

At her voice the woman looked at her keenly.

"Girl, you are frozen with cold! This is no night for you to be abroad."

"I could not help it!" said Eldris with chattering teeth. Her voice failed her with her strength;
before she had time to so much as see the woman's face all things grew dark before her eyes.
The woman caught her as she fell.

She awoke to life again with burning pains in her face and head, and found two women bending
over her. One held a bowl, from which the other was rubbing Eldris's face with snow. Both were
young; both were tawdrily dressed, with many strings of beads and rings on neck and fingers.
Eldris, looking at them, raised her head, and asked the first question that came into her head.

"Where am I?"

The woman with the bowl smiled a little. She was a fair-haired creature, with eyes of Saxon
blue, with hollow cheeks and scarlet lips.

"Do you not know the house of Chloris?" she asked.

Eldris shook her head. Her eyes asked a question which her lips had not strength to utter.
The second woman spoke; a dark-haired beauty, she, with a profile of purest Grecian outline.

"Cease thy chatter, Sada! Canst not see the girl is dead with cold and hunger? Leave me the
bowl and go get food and wine."

Sada put down the bowl and ran out of the room.

"Your face was frozen," said the Greek. "It is well that you found help in time."

"You are good," Eldris murmured with stiff lips. She was dropping to sleep again through sheer
exhaustion in spite of pain, when Sada returned with a tray which held a bowl, smoking hot,
an ampulla of wine, and a cheap brass cup. Between them the women roused Eldris and fed her
carefully. As her strength began to return, she looked about her with quickening interest.
But the room told her nothing. It was small and bare, furnished with but the bed on which she
lay, a copper brazier of charcoal, and a couple of wooden stools. The women, over her head,
talked in low voices.

"She will sleep to-night, and to-morrow our mistress will see her," said Sada. "Where didst
find her, Eunice?"

"At the door," the Greek answered. "I was stationed there to let in you know who, and heard
a knock. So this girl entered, crying out that men were after her, so far as I could understand,
and slammed the door before I could say her nay. You told Chloris of her, then?"

Sada nodded and laid a finger on her lips.

"She sleeps," she whispered. "Let us go."

But Eldris opened heavy eyes with effort.

"Pray you tell me where is the wine-shop of Nicodemus!" she murmured, husky with drowsiness.
"It is there that I must go and wait--"

The tall Greek Eunice laid a hand on her aching head.

"Sleep now," she said. "To-morrow will be time enough to know."

And Eldris slept, as lost to the world behind the dead blank wall as Nicanor in his dungeon cell.

It seemed to her, in her sleep, that she lay with body dead but soul alive and conscious. She
dreamed confusedly, strange formless dreams, in which women dark and fair, Hito, Nicanor, and
herself were involved inextricably. She dreamed of stealthy whisperings behind closed doors,
of laughing faces which looked down upon her as she lay with body dead and soul conscious.
With awakening came remembrance and a thrill of apprehension. She lifted herself on an elbow
and saw the Saxon girl Sada sitting on the floor, regarding her steadfastly.

"Have I slept long?" Eldris asked.

"It is evening again," said Sada.

"Then I must go at once!" Eldris exclaimed. She got out of bed, tottering a little, and shivering
in the chilly air of the room. "If thanks be any payment for what you have done for me, you
have all of mine. They are all I have to give."

Sada answered nothing. She helped Eldris to dress, combed her hair, and brought her food. Then
Eldris, in a fever to be at her journey's end and know what was in store for her, said again:

"Pray you tell me where is the wine-shop of Nicodemus"--and thought the other smiled. But Sada,
instead of answering, said only:

"Before you go, our mistress would hold speech with you."

"Your mistress? Are you, then, slaves?" Eldris ventured.

A strange look crossed Sada's face.

"Ay," she answered. "Slaves, who shall die in bondage."

She led Eldris from the room across a small and ill-paved court to another door.

"You will find her here," she said, and pushed Eldris gently across the threshold.

The room was lighted by many lamps, some of pottery of the cheapest sort, others of wrought
bronze, and was filled with a strange and subtle perfume. There was a confusion of furniture,
and the walls were hung with curtains, which gave the place a bizarre and Eastern look. So
much Eldris took in with her first step forward. Then she saw a figure seated upon a mattress
on the floor, a fat and shapeless figure, bunched in many garments. Atop of the fat figure
was a fat face, with thin hair whose natural gray showed through its ruddy dye, with flabby
painted cheeks, and heavy-lidded eyes darkened beneath with antimony. A Greek might have called
it the face of a Greek, and looked again to make sure; a Roman might have called it the face
of a Roman. In it one seemed to catch a hint, mysterious and elusive, of all ages and all nations.
Once it had been a fine face; even, in a time long past, it had been touched with beauty. Now
it was at once a relic and a monument. The substance was the same, but transmuted into coarser
mould. Where had been soft blue tracings were red and angry veins; where had been gracious
roundness was gross fleshiness. Only the brow, God-made, the only feature which may be neither
made nor marred by human means, remained the same, broad and white, and smooth as marble.

The woman sat perfectly motionless, looking at nothing. On her fat hands, which rested on her
knees, were rings set with blazing stones; on every finger a ring, and on every ring a slender
chain which led back over the hand to a heavy wristlet of gold in which a great ruby burned.
Her garments were held by fibulæ of iron and bone, cheaply made; around her neck were many
strings of beads, some of carved jet, some of silver, some of colored glass. In her grotesqueness
and impassivity she might have posed as a graven goddess of some unholy rite. In the sight
of her, also, was something so unexpected that Eldris stopped and stared.

"Will you close that door?" said the woman. Her voice was low-pitched and clear and very sweet,
with no hint of coarseness in its modulations. Coming from such a bulk it was surprising--more,
it was startling. Eldris obeyed, taken wholly aback. "Now come hither."

Eldris came.

The woman's heavy-lidded eyes settled on her as a vulture settles on its prey, devouring her,
line by line, feature by feature, until, to her surprise and discomfort, Eldris felt herself
flushing as though she had been under the eyes of a man.

"Whence come you?" said the soft voice; so commonplace a question and so casually asked, that
Eldris was nearly betrayed into indiscretion. She caught herself and said instead:

"From Londinium."

"And you are--" The woman looked her over again. "Perhaps a dancer, or maybe a mime, running
away because your master misused you?"

"A dancer--yes, that is it," said Eldris, catching at the invention. "And my master misused
me, and I ran away. Now I seek the wine-shop--"

The woman laughed, a silvery tinkle of mirth.

"Child, spare your conscience!" she said lightly. "See, let me tell you how it lies with you.
Whence come you? From a great house to the southward, where one Hito rules with a rod of fear.
What are you? A slave, my dear, and a runaway, with your life, in consequence, forfeit and
lying this moment in my hand. Some one helped you to get away, and bade you wait for him at
the wine-shop of this master Nicodemus, for whom you clamor. How dare you put me and mine in
jeopardy, girl, by thrusting yourself upon us? Know you not the penalty visited on those who
harbor fugitive slaves?"

Eldris started back from her, gray and pinched with fear. How did the woman know? Who had told
her? Eldris could not guess; knew nothing but that her life indeed lay in the fat jewelled
hands resting on the woman's knees.

But the latter's tone changed. Perhaps there was in her something of the feline; the instinct
of the cat to gambol with its prey. She laughed again.

"Nay, child!" she said gently. "I did but sport with thee. And I am sorry, poor hunted rabbit.
Never fear, my girl--Chloris has yet to turn distress from her door. How do I know these things?
Why, that is easily answered, since all night long in sleep your tongue went over this and
that--such a babble as was never heard. The tongue by day may lie, but the tongue by night
speaks truth. My women who waited on you did piece its fragments, and came with the whole and
told me. Now I have this to say: Stay in this house, and you shall be safer than in your father's.
When search is made for you, be sure the searchers will come hither, and that is the best thing
that could be. You will not be the first girl who has sought shelter with Chloris. And I dare
take the risk of keeping you, because I am so very sure that you will not be found. If the
house be searched, no one of your description would be found herein--and you yourself might
tell the stationarii so without fear. Stay with me, and you shall have food and shelter and
protection from the law."

"And I--what wouldst have of me in return?" asked Eldris slowly.

"Naught but what you would give willingly," said Chloris. "Mark you this, girl: Chloris forces
no man nor woman to do her bidding. If one wishes to enter here, she may enter; if one wishes
to leave, she may leave. I can but repeat what I have said. Come to me and you shall be safe--I'll
lay my life on that. If you will not, well, go your way; you shall not be betrayed by me or mine."

"If you would but let me be servant to you!" Eldris begged. "I am friendless and weary, and
I dread to face the world again, for there is no rest nor safety for me at all. I would work
in scullery or in kitchen, and serve you loyally and gladly; more than this I will not do.
Once I fled to escape shame; shall I then seek that from which I fled?"

"So be it, then," said Chloris. "I shall not compel you, for that is not the way of Chloris.
You have told so much while no sense was in you that you might now straighten out the tale.
I see your doubts; you do not know me, yet you have your opinion. That is right, child; better
for one's own peace of mind to trust too little than too much. But you need fear nothing. I,
too, was friendless once, and weary once, and found no rest nor safety. That was long and long
ago; but sometimes I think of it, even these days. So, if you will, tell your tale; and if
you will not, keep it. But remember, I have said that your secret shall not be betrayed by
me or mine. Many things I have come to hold lightly, but my promise is not one of them."

"I will tell," said Eldris. It was an impulse, born of she knew not what emotion. So she told,
taking a fellow-mortal on trust for sake of the faith that was in her; and again the heavy-lidded
eyes fastened on her, never wavering from her face as she told her tale.

"I am slave to the lord Eudemius, him whom men call the Torturer. Hito, who is steward there,
hath persecuted me for a year and more, so that I went in dread of him. Six nights ago I escaped
from that house through the help of one therein, and was told by him to seek Thorney, and Nicodemus
who kept a wine-shop there. But I dared not come here direct lest I be traced at once. I wandered,
seeking what food I might, and then I lost my way. For five days did I toil on, but yesterday
regained my road. I had strayed wrong many miles, but it may be that this was a good thing,
if it would help to throw off those pursuing. For unless I can find hiding, I shall be lost."

"And that one who aided your escape?" said Chloris.

"I do not think it would be just to speak of him," Eldris answered, hesitating. "What I have
told concerns myself. There is no need that another should be put in danger through me."

"Is he your lover?"

Under those changeless, boring eyes, dull color crept into Eldris's white face.

"Nay," she answered.

"Do you, then, love him?"

"Nay," said Eldris again. "I think--" she spoke slowly, as though the words were impelled--"I
think that no one loves him. Rather is he looked on with fear and hate."

"Then must he rear his head in some fashion above the herd," said Chloris, and laughed at the
uncomprehension in Eldris's eyes.

But with the mention of Nicanor, remembrance of his direction returned anew to Eldris, seduced
for a moment by sure promise of safety.

"He bade me go to this Nicodemus, and I dare not do otherwise," she said distressfully. "Last
night I was searching for the place. If he were to come and find me not there--"

"So, he will be a runaway also?" said Chloris, lightly. And at Eldris's distress--"Fear not,
foolish! Should not all slaves stand together? Body of Bacchus! Did they do so, there would
shortly be no slaves! But that is as it must be. As for Nicodemus, know you what place his
wine-shop is? A drinking den where violent men gather to brawl and gamble. No fit one, truly,
for a maid! Rather, stay you here, and when this unloved comrade of yours arrives, why, I'll
hear of it, and you shall know."

Eldris hesitated and lost her game. Chloris clapped her hands. Sada entered, with a glance
full of curiosity.

"Take the girl to the kitchen," Chloris gave command. "Tell the cooks she will serve as scullery
maid and naught else. And hark you, Sada girl! No word of last night's doings, or it will go
hard with you. Now go, the two of you."

She waved them away, and they went out and left her sitting there.

"She is strange!" said Eldris, pondering deeply.

"Ay, strange!" Sada echoed. "Us she rules with a rod of iron, and yet--we love her, every one."

"I fear her," said Eldris, trying, after her nature, to analyze the emotions in her. "For she
is old and very evil. And I was helpless, and she gave me help; homeless, and she took me in."

III

The Winter wore away and the great house hummed with preparation for the marriage festivities
of Marius and Varia. All the friends of Eudemius and of Livinius and Marius were bidden; rich
men and powerful, these, foremost of the circle of feudal lords whose power in Britain had
become supreme, and whose allegiance to the Empire was long since merely nominal. Of them were
Quintus Fabius, a senator in the curia, or governing body of Londinium; Caius Julius Valens,
duumvir--chief magistrate, with rank corresponding in some sort to that of governor--of Isca
Silurum, that great city which in the old days the Second Legion, the Augustan, had made famous.
Also came the Comes Litoris Saxonici, Marcus Silenus Pomponius, Count of the Saxon Shore, in
whose ward were the Eastern Marches and the Fens, of whose ancient power all the responsibilities
and few of the prerogatives were left; Maximus Crispis, who owned the largest villa at the
fashionable Aquæ Solis, and boasted his own private and complete system of mineral baths; and
fifty others with names as great as these.

Eudemius threw himself into the arrangements with an energy which made light of all obstacles.
And of these there were many, since inevitably the disordered state of the country reacted
on private concerns. From all the ends of the earth treasures were brought at his command.
Swift-winged vessels, manned by tireless rowers whose one law of life was speed, came laden
with rich stuffs and gems from the East; cups and dishes of virgin gold, crusted with uncut
jewels; statuettes of Bacchus, the god of feasts, crowned with grapes of purple amethyst and
leaves of emerald; of Fortuna, with the horn of Amalthea; of Hymen the torch-bearer, god of
marriage; cups of figured and embossed glass, inscribed with sentiments such as "Bibe feliciter!"
or "Ex hoc amici bibunt,"--all intended to be bestowed upon the guests as souvenirs during
the feasts at which they were to be used. Lustrous silks came from far-away Serica; cloth of
gold from Persian looms; glassware, fragile as tinted bubbles, from the great works near Lucrinum;
spices and perfumes from Arabia, aloe, myrrh, and spikenard. To all that he owned he added
tenfold more. Sometimes his ships were lost at sea; sometimes plundered by bands of pirates
at his very doors. Then a messenger would be sent speeding by night and day to the agent from
whom that ship had come, to return in a time incredibly short with an identical cargo--if by
any means this could be duplicated. In this way he more than once sunk what was in truth a
fortune without a denarius of profit in return. He wished to have tigers and lions brought
from Africa, that his guests might hunt royal game, and spent many thousand aurei before he
discovered that the cold invariably killed those of the animals which had survived the voyage.
So he gave up that idea and stocked his parks and forests with wild boar,--the prime favorite
for big game hunting,--with wolves, and lordly stags, and the wary, wild bos longifrons, which
afforded as good sport as might be wished.

Each day goods arrived, and messengers came with some rare thing brought by hand half across
the world; each day bales and boxes were opened in rooms set apart for them; and each day Eudemius
called his daughter and put into her careless hands some costly trifle which men had sweated
and striven like overworked beasts of burden to lay before her.

When Varia's last month of maidenhood was nearly gone, Eudemius called Hito to him, to give
account of what was in his hands. In the house were so many services of gold and silver, so
many of Samian ware from Aretium, costly enough for an emperor's table; in the cellars, so
many amphoræ of Falernian wine and wines from Cyprus, so many ollæ of ale and beer. In the
servants' quarters were so many slaves of the field and of the household, male and female;
so many trained to trades, so many dancing boys, musicians, and dancing girls. There were so
many coloni and casarii, who owned Eudemius as patronus and paid house and land rent yearly
in money, produce, or service, who belonged to the estate and might not be sold without it.
Of the slaves those who had died were accounted for; those who had been resold, or exchanged,
or manumitted,--all save two.

"These, lord," said Hito, without a change of face, "are two of whom I had it in mind to speak
these many months ago. But when all things were to be prepared, there was no time. This woman,
Eldris, did attempt escape; for what reason is not known. I gave command to pursue her. This
was done. But when the men found her, she was dead; it is to be thought of cold and hunger.
So she was put away. Let not my lord think that his servant was neglectful; we recaptured her,
but she was dead. This one, Nicanor, was committed to the dungeons by order of our lord Marius;
it is now nearly eight months ago. And for what reason is not known either. He is there still,
since no further command hath been received regarding him. He was taken with a madness, and
well-nigh killed my lord's slave. I would have put him to the rack, but my lord Marius said
nay, that he was to be held until wanted. This was done." Lies and truth mingled on his tongue
like oil and honey.

Marius, sitting at Eudemius's elbow, looked up.

"I remember the fellow," he said, searching his memory. "I meant to bring him to thy notice,
that thou shouldst deal with him, and as I live, I forgot him. He it was who sought Lady Varia
in her garden and was found by Marcus, whom you killed because he would not betray. But it
appears, from what I could learn of Varia since then, that the man did no harm--was rather
a poor fool telling crazy tales to which she listened as a child. It was a whim of Varia's,
nothing more. And Nerissa doth swear that always she was within sight and hearing of the two,--though
whether she says this to free her own skirts from blame, I know not,--and that all which was
said and done was with her knowledge, for the humoring of her lady. So that the fellow hath
done no actual wrong, it would seem."

From the high pinnacle of his power he could afford to be indifferent--and he and Eudemius
had weightier matters than a slave's fate to settle.

"Hath he the privilege of trial?" Eudemius asked. "In what degree is he slave?"

"Absolute!" said Hito, promptly. "Neither colonus nor casarius nor the son of such is he, nor
even esne, whose trade might win him privileges."

"Then send him to the mines," said Eudemius, with indifference. "If he hath done nothing, he
cannot die, but his presumption deserves punishment, and this he shall have,"--and was deep
in fresh papers before Hito had left the room.

Hito summoned Wardo, upon whom of late days his favor had unexpectedly descended, and laid
on him his commands.

"Friend, there be a dozen and odd slaves marked for punishment, who are to be sent to the mines
within the week. And among them is one black brute Nicanor; he goeth first of all. Thus our
lord commands. Thou shalt go with them, with two men or three to aid thee, to receive their
tally from the superintendent of the mines. Make arrangements so soon as may be, for I would
be well rid of them. And if any seek escape by flight or mutiny--well, there is no need to
be over easy with them. They will not be missed."

But for one reason and another it was full two weeks before Wardo could get his people together;
and by that time the festivities had begun, with the first of the arriving guests.

First to come was Marcus Pomponius, Count of the Saxon Shore, with his wife Gratia, a woman
whose beauty was famed throughout the island. He was a stately man, of the type which had made
Rome what she would never be again,--mistress of the world. His face was pale, and high-bred,
and graven deep with the chisel-lines of thought; his hair was hoary, a silver crown; his eyes,
under black contrasting brows, were quick, keen, indomitable, as in his long-dead days of youth.

Eudemius received his guests at the threshold of his house, attired royally, with a torques
of gold about his neck and the great signet ring of his house upon his thumb. Gracious and
commanding, he made his friends welcome with a courtly ease which no brooding years of solitude
could rust. Beside him were Livinius and Marius; and to all who came Eudemius presented Marius
as "my son."

So shortly after the first guests came others, alone, or with their wives and daughters, until
the great house was crowded full with busy life. The stately halls, warmed, perfumed with exotic
plants, resounded with talk grave and gay, with songs and merriment and laughter. Musicians
played on lyre and cithara, reed and tambour; there began an endless round of feasting, hunting,
games, and sports. From the women's side of the house came floating breaths of perfume, suppressed
laughter, a subtle emanation of aristocratic and luxurious femininity. And Varia, the pivotal
point on which all hinged, the least considered of all of the household, was given neither
peace nor solitude. From day till dark women fluttered around her, examining robes, jewels,
head-dresses, shoes, with question and comment. She must try on this and try on that; she must
be petted and caressed like a pampered plaything, and all with significant glances of pity
and concern.

Varia was very quiet these days. Childlike, she hid from Marius; childlike, sulked when he
found her. Childlike, also, she hung in raptures over the gifts which were showered upon her,
nor ever dreamed that they were the price with which she was bought. She hung aloof, shyly,
from the invasion of her home; in her eyes a child's longing to join the merrymaking, mingled
with all its dread of a rebuff.

Marius, for his part, bore his honors easily. That he was popular among the guests went without
saying. He hunted with the men and talked of state and war; he parried the agile thrusts of
the women with laughing skill; he made persistent love to Varia.

Nerissa, the old nurse who had brought up Varia from her forsaken childhood, going in to her
charge to instruct her formally in the duties of wife and mother which lay before her, looked
in at the door, smiled to herself, and went away. Half a dozen young beauties had taken possession
before her, with chatter and laughter--slender Roman girls, of the haughtiest blood in Britain.
Julia danced on the marble floor, in and out among the slender columns, in jewelled sandals
of Varia's, her skirts held high; Nigidia and Valencia, between them, examined a peplus of
white silk soft enough to be drawn through the hand, and woven with threads of gold. Gratia,
named for her mother, and daughter of Count Pomponius of the Saxon Shore, sat on the couch
beside Varia, slowly waving a new fan of peacock's feathers set in a handle of chased gold.
Paula and Virginia were turning over an ivory casket of trinkets at a table near by. Varia
sat with empty hands, watching and listening. For the first time in her darkened life she was
knowing the companionship of her own age and kind, very shy, but longing greatly to be friendly,
to talk and laugh as did these radiant others.

"Tell us, Varia, what thy lover hath given thee?" Paula called gayly across the room. Julia,
ceasing her dancing, put off the sandals, slipped on her own, and came to sit by Varia, on
the other side.

"Ay, tell us!" she cried, and slipped an arm around Varia's neck, girlwise. Varia flushed,
half with pleasure at the embrace, half with confusion.

"Many things, but I will have none of them," she answered.

"Now but thou art a strange girl!" cried Paula. "Here thou hast a lover, on fire with love
for thee, as all the world may see, and thou wilt avail thyself nothing of him. By the girdle
of Venus! Had I such a lover pursuing me, I'd lead him such a dance that when I did yield he'd
swear there was no goddess in heaven like me, and the beckon of my finger would be his command."

"Thou, Paula!" Gratia scoffed, and shook the peacock fan at her. "Thou who hast more lovers
than fingers on thy hands--"

"Ay, but truly none quite like Varia's here. Whom can you name so strong, so masterful, so--well,
so all that a girl would have? Varia, I am jealous! Why chose he thee instead of me?"

"That were easy to tell," Nigidia murmured over the end of the peplus she held. But Varia did
not hear.

"I would that he had!" she said seriously, so that Gratia hugged her in a gale of laughter.
"I do not wish to be pursued, as you say."

"Now did ever woman wish that before!" cried Julia. "Even though we act perforce as though
we did not. But I will say, cara, that thou hast succeeded very well with him. For it needs
practice to treat a man with icy disdain when all the while thou art secretly longing that
he will be bold and dare thy displeasure. When a girl knows how to tell a man that he must
not, but he may if he will, her education is complete."

"I do not understand," Varia said slowly, and flushed again. "I am very stupid; but--may, if
he will, do what?"

"Nay, never put such fancies in this innocent's head!" cried Gratia, in a protest only half
serious. "She will learn soon enough without thy teaching."

Nigidia left the ivory casket and came and sat on a footstool at Varia's feet, looking up at
her with black eyes alight with raillery.

"Tell us, cara," she said, "dost love him very much, this so masterful lover of thine?"

"Nay," said Varia, in all seriousness. "I love him not at all."

At once they fluttered around her, exchanging glances.

"Why, how may that be? Tell us of it! How did he woo thee? What did he say and do?"

Varia, laughing because they laughed, considered a moment, her head on one side.

"As thou sayest, he is strong and very masterful," she said. "How did he woo me? Why, as ever
a man wooes a maid, I suppose."

"You suppose?" said Nigidia, sweetly, with a glance at the others. "Do you not know? Has none
sought you in marriage before?"

Varia shook her head. She knew not how to parry their curiosity; they, seeing this, were the
more curious.

"No," she confessed, low-voiced.

They looked at her and at each other with round eyes of wonder in which laughter lurked.

"Thy husband thy first lover!" Nigidia exclaimed, as one incredulous. "Poor little thing! Girls,
is this not sad to hear? But then, poor child, how couldst thou help it, shut away in here
where thou canst see never a man at all?"

"Oh, I have seen a man!" Varia cried eagerly. "It is not quite so bad with me as that! A man
like unto no other man in the world, I think!" Her face flushed, her eyes shone. Again a glance
went round. "He, too, is strong and masterful, but tender--ah, so tender!" She clasped her
hands; her lips trembled.

"So, it is he whom thou lovest?" said Paula.

Again the old pained bewilderment grew in Varia's eyes.

"I--do not know," she faltered.

"But I do!" said Paula. "See, then, is this how it is with thee?" She glanced at her companions
with lowered lids; they drew closer, silent. "Night and day his voice, his eyes, are with thee.
His name is a song which thy heart singeth dumbly; when it is spoken it makes thee quiver like
a harp on which a certain note is touched. At the very thought of him, of his words, and his
caresses, thou dost flush and tremble as though his hands had touched thee. (Girls, see the
color burn!) A dear and tender pain is at thy heart; thou livest in dreams, and art possessed
by aching unrest which yet is sweet. Is it not even thus with thee?"

"Ay," said Varia, very low. "It is even thus."

"Then thou dost love this man," said Paula. Her tone was final, admitting of no doubt.

Varia, flushed from throat to brow, looked at her with shining eyes.

"Ay, I love him--I know it now! For night and day his voice and eyes are with me, and his name
and the words he hath said are a song to me. And night and day I hear him calling me, from
far and far away, as so many times he hath called me to the garden. But now--woe is me! I may
not come."

"Get married, sweet, to him who loves thee, and then thou mayest have him whom thou dost love,"
said Nigidia. "If one has courage to do as one wills, and cleverness not to be found out, may
not one do as one chooses? I know that Rubria, wife of Maximus Crispus, hath two lovers, and
one of them is guest in this house. Who is thy lover, dear? What his name and station?"

Varia hesitated. The impulse which kept her from revealing the truth was dumb and blind, but
it was there, and it saved her. She bit her lip.

"I will not tell!" she said in distress.

"We promise not to take him from thee," said Nigidia, and laughed with the rest.

"He sure must be the highest in the land, to win thy love," chimed in Paula, ready to carry
on the game. "Perhaps it is Fabian, the friend of Marius, who hath the eyes of a god. Or perhaps
it is old Aulus Plautus, of Gobannium. He is a widower these twenty years, and hath no teeth
and but one eye--but his jewels sparkle enough for the other."

But Varia's face changed, and her eyes grew dark and hunted.

"Now you do make sport of me!" she cried. "What have I done that ye should bait me thus?" Before
any girl could answer she faced them in a mist of quick, angry tears. "I am glad that my father's
guests may be thus easily amused!"

They started upon her, in a moment all contrition, ready to embrace her and make amends; but
she jumped off the couch and fled from them into her bedchamber and closed the door.

"We are as mean as we can be!" said Gratia, with reproach. "I think it great shame for us that
we should not have remembered how it is with her. I am glad I was not first to start it!"

Paula and Nigidia took fire.

"What have we done save what we would do to any bride?" asked Paula. "Who could have thought
she would take it so? But she is not so different from the rest of us, perhaps!"

"Perhaps no better!" said Nigidia.

"Then would she have thy teaching to thank for that!" Gratia flashed back. "And it is in my
mind that the less she gets of it the better it will be for her."

When Nerissa came again, shortly, it was to find her lady alone and weeping. But this was no
new thing of late. Nerissa came prepared to speak solemnly, as was her duty; Varia turned a
petulant shoulder to her.

"Why will ye not let me be in peace?" she cried. "I do not wish to wed--I am happy as I am.
I will not be meek and obedient, and incline in all things unto my lord husband! I do not wish
him for husband! I hate him. And oh, Nerissa, in three days--"

She wept afresh. Nerissa stroked her hair.

"There, then, lady-bird, never take it so! It is right that all maids should wed. The lord
Marius will be kind to thee; he will give thee great affection. At least, the gods grant that
he may! Thou wilt have jewels such as thou hast never dreamed of, and robes such as thou hast
never seen. Thou wilt be a very great lady, little nursling o' mine. Ay me, but it is strange!
These arms were the first to cradle thee; these hands dressed thee in the first little clothes
of thy babyhood. Such little clothes! Now they deck thee for thy bridal--and perhaps it may
not be so long before they have other little clothes to handle. See, child of my heart, wouldst
not be glad to have a tiny son of thine own, to love and play with? Wouldst not like to feel
a round little head against thy heart, two so tiny hands opening the gates of all happiness
before thee? Wouldst not see two baby eyes lulled into sleep by thy drowsy crooning? Say, sweet
one, wouldst thou not like this?"

Varia raised her face slowly, starry eyes wide and very sweet with awe, young lips parting
in reverent wonder.

"Ay," she breathed, and flushed and trembled. "I should like that. A little son, of all mine
own! But I would not have it his son, O Nerissa! I would he might be son of a man such as I
have dreamed of; a man brave, and rough, and tender--ay, all these! What should I care that
he had no gold--have I found it such a blessing? For he would have more than gold--that which
no man could give him, and no man take away. And his son should be like him; and the son of
such a man I could love, and be proud that he was mine."

Nerissa smiled, a tender hand on Varia's head.

"Ay, I know, I know! Poor little one, we all have our dreams--even thou--and we all must wake
from them. If this son of thine should be as the one who is to be his father, it will be very
well. For the lord Marius is an honorable man, and strong."

Varia made a gesture of fierce protest.

"Bah! If he looked at me with those eyes, black and haughty, if his mouth was thin and his
nose like an eagle's beak, and his hair stiff, so that I could not run it through my fingers,
I should hate him even as I hate his father!"

Nerissa laughed.

"Sweet, my baby girl, it would be long or ever thou couldst see haughtiness in the eyes of
that baby of thine, or thin lips; and as for the nose--! And I dare swear that when thou first
dost look, thou wilt not find any hair at all, much less what is stiff. Come, cheer thee, my
very dear! Believe that thy lord father knoweth what is best for thee. Thou art his own; he
would never do thee wrong."

"Now am I not so sure of that!" said Varia, and her voice changed and was strange. "Oh, Nerissa,
it is not that I would not wed! I, too, would know what joy and fulness a woman's life may
hold, and perhaps I am not too much fool to understand. But one cannot teach me from whom I
shrink with every breath I draw. These things I cannot understand. When I would think and question,
there is something just beyond me, which I cannot grasp,--" she raised a hand, groping,--"something
which escapes me, and when I think I have it, lo! it vanishes, and I wander in the dark. Birds
I can understand, and trees, and little flowers, and clouds, and sunlight, and rippling brooks;
but men and women I cannot understand; they all are strange to me, and I do not at all know
why. I fear them; I am restless and unhappy. One only in all the world have I seen who was
not strange. Him I could understand; when he spoke, all my heart sang in answer; it was what
I longed to say and could not, and I do not at all know why. There was that in him which was
in me, and yet I am fool and he is not, and this also I cannot understand. Will it ever be
that I shall understand, O Nerissa?"

Nerissa sat on the couch beside her and drew her into her arms.

"Some day, surely, my pet," she soothed. "Think of it no more--never fret thyself with foolish
fancies. Now it groweth late and is time to sleep. Thou shalt be my baby once again, for this
night is the last I shall have thee all mine own."

She called slave women, and had them pack away the scattered silks and gauzes in the chests
from which they had been taken, and make all ready for the night. Thereafter she sent them
all away, even the body-slaves and tire-women, and herself waited upon her mistress. She freed
Varia's hair from the jewelled pins which held it, combed its dusky length, and braided it
in two long braids. She brought water in a great brazen jar, and filled the sunken marble bath
in the red-tiled bathroom, and bathed her lady with scented soaps and perfumes. She cradled
her in her arms, wrapped in warm rugs, and rocked and crooned old slumber songs as though her
charge had been in fact a child again.

The lamps burned low, the room was warm and still. Varia, nestled in the arms that had been
to her a mother's arms, stirred drowsily once or twice, and each time Nerissa bent over her,
and felt her feet beneath the rugs to see that they were warm, studying with tender care the
soft outline of rounded cheek, the long lashes down-dropped to hide the starry eyes, the quiet
rise and fall of breath.

"She is but a child! She will forget!" she murmured.

But Varia spoke, in a voice straight from the land of dreams, opening upon her eyes misty with
sleep.

"One does not forget!" she said drowsily. "One loses a thing, for a long time, it may be, but
some shadow of that thing is always left, even to a fool. Is it not so?"

"Ay, if thou sayest," said Nerissa, as readily as she would have agreed that pigs were butterflies
if her lady had willed them so. But Varia was asleep before she spoke.

All through that night Nerissa held her nursling in fond, anxious arms that knew no weariness,
brooding over her as a mother with her child.

Just as gray dawn came drifting in at the windows, the feast in the great house broke up, and
the guests, most of them half drunken, sought their rooms. And just at dawn word began to pass
from station to station, and from town to town, of a city set in flames--fair Anderida in the
South, as the crow flies, sixty Roman miles away. But of this, and what it portended, the villa
knew nothing.

IV

Many things happened that day which the villa and the world came to know too well. The sun
was scarcely an hour high when mounted men rode to the villa, demanding to see its lord. Of
these, one was Aurelius Menotus, one of the two duumviri or governors of Anderida; and with
him was his son Felix, small and fair of skin, with weak eyes and a loose, stubborn mouth,
who wore no sword and whose arm was in a sling. Slaves brought them to Eudemius, and he welcomed
them, and they told their tale. Aurelius was a shrunken man, with a baboon face, straggling
gray hair, and hands perfect as those of a god. He had ridden hard all night, and was pasty
pale with fatigue and trouble; and his staff, mostly old men, were in hardly better plight.
Two of the servants with them were wounded; it was told that a third had died on the road.
They were cared for and given food and wine, and Eudemius sent for Marius to hear also what
they had to tell. No other guests were stirring.

