Saugus, too, was the scene of the early labors of Rev. Edward T. Taylor, familiarly known as
Father Taylor. Here he learned to read, and preached his first sermon at what was then known
as the "Rock Schoolhouse," at East Saugus, though converted at North Saugus. Mrs. Sally Sweetser,
a pious lady, taught him his letters, and Mrs. Jonathan Newhall used to read to him the chapter
in the Bible from which he was to preach until he had committed it to memory.

North Saugus is a fine agricultural section with table land, pleasant and well watered, well
adapted to farming purposes, and it was here that Adam Hawkes, the first of this name in this
county, settled with his five sons in 1630, and took up a large tract of land. He built his
house on a rocky knoll, the spot being at the intersection of the road leading from Saugus
to Lynnfield with the Newburyport turnpike, known as Hawkes' Corner. This house being burned
the bricks of the old chimney were put into another, and when again this chimney was taken
down a few years ago there were found bricks with the date of 1601 upon them. This shows, evidently,
that the bricks were brought from England. This property is now in the hands of one of his
lineal descendants, Louis P. Hawkes, having been handed down from sire to son for more than
250 years. On the 28th and 29th of July, 1880, a family reunion of the descendents of Adam
Hawkes was held to celebrate the 250th anniversary of his advent to the soil of Saugus. It
was a notable meeting, and brought together the members of this respected and respectable family
from Maine to California. Two large tents were spread and the trees and buildings were decorated
with flags and mottoes in an appropriate and tasteful manner. Judges, Generals, artists, poets,
clergymen, lawyers, farmers and mechanics were present to participate in the re-union. Addresses
were made, poems suitable to the occasion rendered, and all passed off in a most creditable
manner. Among the antique and curious documents in the possession of Samuel Hawkes was the
"division of the estate of Adam Hawkes, made March 27, 1672."

Mrs. Dinsmore resided in this part of the town. A most amiable woman, a good nurse, kind in
sickness, and it was in this way that she discovered a most valuable medicine. Her specific
is claimed to be very efficacious in cases of croup and kindred diseases, and its use in such
cases has become very general, as well as for headache. She is almost as widely known as Lydia
Pinkham. She died in 1881.

Saugus nobly responded to the call for troops to put down the rebellion, furnishing a large
contingent for Company K, Seventeenth Massachusetts Volunteers, which was recruited almost
wholly from Malden and Saugus, under command of Captain Simonds of Malden. Thirty-six Saugus
men also enlisted in Company A, Fortieth Massachusetts Volunteers, while quite a number joined
the gallant Nineteenth Regiment, Col. E.W. Hinks, whose name Post 95, G.A.R., of Saugus bears,
which is a large and flourishing organization. There were many others who enlisted in various
other regiments, beside those who served in the navy.

Charles A. Newhall of this town is secretary and treasurer of the Nineteenth Regiment association,
whose survivors still number nearly one hundred members.

THE OLD IRON WORKS.

These justly celebrated works, the first of their kind in this country, were situated on the
west bank of the Saugus river, about one-fourth of a mile north of the Town Hall, on the road
leading to Lynnfield, and almost immediately opposite the mansion of A.A. Scott, Esq., the
present proprietor of the woolen mills which are located just above, the site of the old works
being still marked by a mound of scoria and debris, the locality being familiarly known as
the "Cinder Banks." Iron ore was discovered in the vicinity of these works at an early period,
but no attempt was made to work it until 1643. The Braintree iron works, for which some have
claimed precedence, were not commenced until 1647, in that part of the town known as Quincy.

Among the artisans who found employment and scope for their mechanical skill at these works
was Mr. Joseph Jenks who, when the colonial mint was started to coin the "Pine Tree Shilling,"
made the die for the first impressions at the Iron works at Saugus.

The old house, formerly belonging to the Thomas Hudson estate of sixty-nine acres first purchased
by the Iron Works, is still standing, and is probably one of the oldest in Essex County, although
it has undergone so many repairs that it is something like the boy's jack-knife, which belonged
to his grandfather and had received three new blades and two new handles since he had known
it. One of the fire-places, with all its modernizing, a few years ago measured about thirteen
feet front, and its whole contour is yet unique. It is now owned by A.A. Scott and John B. Walton.

Near Pranker's Pond, on Appleton street, is a singular rock resembling a pulpit. This portion
of the town is known as the Calemount.

There is a legend of the Colonial period that a man by the name of Appleton harangued or preached
to the people of the vicinity, urging them to stand by the Republican cause, hence the name
of "Pulpit Rock." The name "Calemount" also comes, according to tradition, from the fact that
one of the people named Caleb Appleton, who had become obnoxious to the party, had agreed upon
a signal with his wife and intimate friends, that, when in danger, they should notify him by
this expressive warning, "Cale, mount!" upon which he would take refuge in the rocky mountain,
which, being then densely wooded, afforded a secure hiding place. Several members of this family
of Appletons have since, during successive generations, been distinguished and well known citizens
of Boston, one of whom, William Appleton, was elected to Congress over Anson Burlingame, in 1860.

Recently, one of the descendants of this family has had a tablet of copper securely bolted
to the rock with the following inscription:--

     "APPLETON'S PULPIT!

     In September, 1687, from this rock tradition asserts that resisting
     the tyranny of Sir Edmond Andros, Major Samuel Appleton of Ipswich
     spake to the people in behalf of those principles which later were
     embodied in the declaration of Independence."

This tablet was formally presented to the town by letter from the late Thomas Appleton, at
the annual March meeting in 1882, and its care assumed by the town of Saugus.

Among the present industries of Saugus are Pranker's Mills, a joint stock corporation, doing
business under the style of Edward Pranker & Co., for the manufacture of woollen goods, employing
about one hundred operatives, and producing about 1,800,000 yards of cloth annually--red, white
and yellow flannel. The mill of A.A. Scott is just below on the same stream, making the same
class of goods, with a much smaller production, both companies being noted for the standard
quality of their fabrics. The spice and coffee mills of Herbert B. Newhall at East Saugus do
a large business in their line, and his goods go all over New England and the West.

Charles S. Hitchings, at Saugus, turns out some 1,500 cases of hand-made slippers of fine quality
for the New York and New England trade. Otis M. Burrill, in the same line, is making the same
kind of work, some 150 cases, Hiram Grover runs a stitching factory with steam power, and employs
a large number of employees, mostly females.

Win. E. Shaw also makes paper boxes and cartoons, and does quite a business for Lynn manufacturers.

Enoch T. Kent at Saugus and his brother, Edward S. Kent, at Cliftondale, are engaged in washing
crude hair and preparing it for plastering and other purposes, such as curled hair, hair cloth,
blankets, etc. They each give employment to quite a number of men. Albert H. Sweetser makes
snuff, succeeding to the firm of Sweetser Bros., who did an extensive business until after
the war. The demand for this kind of goods is more limited than formerly. Joseph. A. Raddin,
manufactures the crude tobacco from the leaf into chewing and smoking tobacco. Edward O. Copp,
Martha Fiske, William Parker and a few others still manufacture cigars.

Quite an, extensive ice business is done at Saugus by Solon V. Edmunds and Stephen Stackpole.
A few years ago Eben Edmunds shipped by the Eastern Railroad some 1,200 tons to Gloucester,
but the shrinkage and wastage of the ice by delays on the train did not render it a profitable
operation.

The strawberry culture has recently become quite a feature in the producing industry of Saugus.
In 1884 Elbridge S. Upham marketed 3,600 boxes, Charles S. Hitchings 1,200, Warren P. Copp
400, and others, Martin Carnes, Calvin Locke, Edward Saunders and Lorenzo Mansfield, more or less.

John W. Blodgett and the Hatch Bros. do a large business in early and late vegetables for Boston
and Lynn markets, such as asparagus, spinach, etc., and employ quite a number of men.

Nor must we forget to mention the milk business. Louis P. Hawkes has a herd of some forty cows
and has a milk route at Lynn. J.W. Blodgett keeps twenty-five cows, and takes his milk to market.
Geo. N. Miller and T.O.W. Houghton also keep cows and have a route. Joshua Kingsbury, George
H. Pearson and George Ames have a route, buying their milk. Byron Hone keeps fifty cows. Dudley
Fiske has twenty-five, selling their milk. O.M. Hitchings, H. Burns, A.B. Davis, Lewis Austin,
Richard Hawkes and others keep from seven to twelve cows for dairy purposes.

Having somewhat minutely noticed the industries we will speak briefly of some of the dwellings.
The elegant mansion and gardens of Brainard and Henry George, Harmon Hall and Rufus A. Johnson
of East Saugus, and Eli Barrett, A.A. Scott and E.E. Wilson of Saugus, C.A. Sweetser, C.H.
Bond and Pliny Nickerson at Cliftondale, with their handsome lawns, rich and rare flowers and
noble shade trees attract general attention. The last mentioned estate was formerly owned by
a brother of Governor William Eustis, where his Excellency used to spend a portion of his time
each year.

At the south-westerly part of the town, not far from the old Eustis estate, the boundaries
of three counties and four towns intersect with each other, viz: Suffolk, Essex and Middlesex
counties, and the towns of Revere, Saugus, Melrose and Maiden. Near by, too, is the old Boynton
estate, and the Franklin Trotting park, where some famous trotting was had, when Dr. Smith
managed it in 1866-7, Flora Temple, Fashion, Lady Patchen and other noted horses contending.
After a few years of use it was abandoned, but it has recently been fitted up by Marshall Abbott
of Lynn, and several trots have taken place the present summer.

The Boynton estate above referred to is divided by a small brook, known as "Bride's Brook,"
which is also the dividing line between Saugus and Revere, and the counties of Suffolk and
Essex. Tradition asserts that many years ago a couple were married here, the groom standing
on one side and the bride on the other; hence the name "Bride's Brook."

The existence of iron ore used for the manufacturing at the old Iron Works was well known,
and there have been many who have believed that antimony also exists in large quantities in
Saugus, but its precise location has as yet not become known to the public.

