PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

ACT III.

    HIALMAR's Studio. A photograph has just been taken, GINA
    and HEDVIG are tidying up.

Gina (apologetically). There should have been a luncheon-party in this Act, with Dr. RELLING
and MÖLVIK, who would have been in a state of comic "chippiness," after his excesses overnight.
But, as it hadn't much to do with such plot as there is, we cut it out. It came cheaper. Here
comes your father back from his walk with that lunatic, Young WERLE--you had better go and
play with the Wild Duck. [HEDVIG goes.

Hialmar (coming in). I have been for a walk with GREGERS; he meant well--but it was tiring.
GINA, he has told me that, fifteen years ago, before I married you, you were rather a Wild
Duck, so to speak. (Severely.) Why haven't you been writhing in penitence and remorse all these
years, eh?

Gina (sensibly). Why? Because I have had other things to do. You wouldn't take any photographs,
so I had to.

Hialmar. All the same--it was a swamp of deceit. And where am I to find elasticity of spirit
to bring out my grand invention now? I used to shut myself up in the parlour, and ponder and
cry, when I thought that the effort of inventing anything would sap my vitality. (Pathetically.)
I did want to leave you an inventor's widow; but I never shall now, particularly as I haven't
made up my mind what to invent yet. Yes, it's all over. Rabbits are trash, and even poultry
palls. And I'll wring that cursed Wild Duck's neck!

Gregers (coming in beaming). Well, so you've got it over. Wasn't it soothing and ennobling,
eh? and ain't you both obliged to me?

Gina. No; it's my opinion you'd better have minded your own business, [Weeps.

Gregers (in great surprise). Bless me! Pardon my Norwegian naïveté but this ought really to
be quite a new starting-point. Why, I confidently expected to have found you both beaming!--Mrs.
EKDAL, being so illiterate, may take some little time to see it--but you, HIALMAR, with your
deep mind, surely you feel a new consecration, eh?

Hialmar (dubiously). Oh--er--yes. I suppose so--in a sort of way.

    [HEDVIG runs in, overjoyed.

Hedvig. Father, only see what Mrs. SÖRBY has given, me for a birthday present--a beautiful
deed of gift! [Shows it.

Hialmar (eluding her). Ha! Mrs. SÖRBY, the family Housekeeper. My father's sight failing! HEDVIG
in goggles! What vistas of heredity these astonishing coincidences open up! I am not short-sighted,
at all events, and I see it all--all! This is my answer. (He takes the deed, and tears it across.)
Now I have nothing more to do in this house. (Puts on overcoat.) My home has fallen in ruins
about me. (Bursts into tears.) My hat!

Gregers. Oh, but you mustn't go. You must be all three together, to attain the true frame of
mind for self-sacrificing forgiveness, you know!

Hialmar. Self-sacrificing forgiveness be blowed!

    [He tears himself away, and goes out.

Hedvig (with despairing eyes). Oh, he said it might be blowed! Now he'll never come home any more!

Gregers. Shall I tell you how to regain your father's confidence, and bring him home surely?
Sacrifice the Wild Duck.

Hedvig. Do you think that will do any good?

Gregers. You just try it! [Curtain.

ACT IV.

    Same Scene. GREGERS enters, and finds GINA retouching
    photographs.

Gregers (pleasantly). HIALMAR not come in yet, after last night, I suppose?

Gina. Not he! He's been out on the loose all night with RELLING and MÖLVIK. Now he's snoring
on their sofa.

Gregers (disappointed.) Dear!--dear!--when he ought to be yearning to wrestle in solitude and
self-examination!

Gina (rudely). Self-examine your grandmother!

    [She goes out; HEDVIG comes in.

Gregers (to Hedvig). Ah, I see you haven't found courage to settle the Wild Duck yet!

Hedvig. No--it seemed such a delightful idea at first. Now it strikes me as a trifle--well,
Ibsenish.

Gregers (reprovingly). I thought you hadn't grown up quite unharmed in this house! But if you
really had the true, joyous spirit of self-sacrifice, you'd have a shot at that Wild Duck,
if you died for it!

Hedvig (slowly). I see; you mean that my constitution's changing, and I ought to behave as such?

Gregers. Exactly, I'm what Americans would term a "crank"--but I believe in you, HEDVIG.

    [HEDVIG takes down the pistol from the mantelpiece, and goes
    into the garret with flashing eyes; GINA comes in.

Hialmar (looking in at door with hesitation; he is unwashed and dishevelled). Has anybody happened
to see my hat?

Gina. Gracious, what a sight you are! Sit down and have some breakfast, do. [She brings it.

Hialmar (indignantly). What! touch food under this roof? Never! (Helps himself to bread-and-butter
and coffee.) Go and pack up my scientific uncut books, my manuscripts, and all the best rabbits,
in my portmanteau. I am going away for ever. On second thoughts, I shall stay in the spare
room for another day or two--it won't be the same as living with you!

    [He takes some salt meat.

Gregers. Must you go? Just when you've got nice firm ground to build upon--thanks to me! Then
there's your great invention, too.

Hialmar. Everything's invented already. And I only cared about my invention because, although
it doesn't exist yet, I thought HEDVIG believed in it, with all the strength of her sweet little
shortsighted eyes! But now I don't believe in HEDVIG!

    [He pours himself out another cup of coffee.

Gregers (earnestly). But, HIALMAR, if I can prove to you that she is ready to sacrifice her
cherished Wild Duck? See!

    [He pushes back sliding-door, and discovers HEDVIG aiming
    at the Wild Duck with the butt-end of the pistol. Tableau.

Gina (excitedly). But don't you see? It's the pigstol--that fatal Norwegian weapon which, in
Ibsenian dramas, never shoots straight! And she has got it by the wrong end too. She will shoot
herself!

Gregers (quietly). She will! Let the child make amends. It will be a most realistic and impressive
finale!

Gina. No, no--put down the pigstol, HEDVIG. Do you hear, child?

Hedvig (still aiming). I hear--but I shan't unless father tells me to.

Gregers. HIALMAR, show the great soul I always said you had. This sorrow will set free what
is noble in you. Don't spoil a fine situation. Be a man! Let the child shoot herself!

Hialmar (irresolutely). Well, really I don't know. There's a good deal in what GREGERS says. Hm!

Gina. A good deal of tomfool rubbish! I'm illiterate, I know. I've been a Wild Duck in my time,
and I waddle. But for all that, I'm the only person in the play with a grain of common-sense.
And I'm sure--whatever Mr. IBSEN or GREGERS choose to say--that a screaming burlesque like
this ought not to end like a tragedy--even in this queer Norway of ours! And it shan't, either!
Tell the child to put that nasty pigstol down and come away, do!

Hialmar (yielding). Ah, well, I am a farcical character myself, after all. Don't touch a hair
of that duck's head, HEDVIG. Come to my arms and all shall be forgiven!

    [HEDVIG throws down the pistol,--which goes off and kills a
    rabbit--and rushes into her father's arms. Old EKDAL comes
    out of a corner with a fowl on each shoulder, and bursts into
    tears. Affecting family picture.

Gregers (annoyed). It's all very pretty, I dare say--but it's not IBSEN! My real mission is
to be the thirteenth at table. I don't know what I mean--but I fly to fulfil it! [He goes.

Hialmar. And now we've got rid of him, HEDVIG, fetch me the deed of gift I tore up, and a slip
of paper, and a penny bottle of gum, and we'll soon make a valid instrument of it again!

    [He pastes the torn deed together as the Curtain slowly
    descends.

THE END (with apologies as before.)

       *       *       *       *       *

WHY SHOULD LONDON WAIT?

OR, THE SLIGHTED METROPOLIS AND THE DISAPPOINTED MEDICAL STUDENT.

    [Sir RICHARD QUAIN (seconding the proposal of Lord HERSCHELL
    "that the draft Supplemental Charter for the University
    of London be approved") said that with respect to Medical
    Degrees, those who were not in the profession could not
    realise the grievance which the Medical Students of London
    felt themselves to be sustaining by not being able to obtain
    their Degrees in the Metropolis. Hundreds of capable men were
    driven to seek in Scotland, at Newcastle, and elsewhere the
    Medical Degrees which they ought to have obtained in London.]

AIR--"The University of Gottingen." London, loquitur:--

  I.

  Whene'er with longing eyes you view
    Degrees, I feel I'm undone, Sir,
  And so do the companions true
  Who studied with you at the U-
      -niversity of London, Sir--
      -niversity of London, Sir!

    [Weeps, and pulls out report of stormy meeting of Convocation
    of University of London, where new draft charter (of which
    Lord HERSCHELL and Lord Justice FRY were the most prominent
    advocates) was rejected by 461 votes against 197.

  II.

  Report! It saddens me--and you.
    Was it in cruel fun done, Sir!
  What QUAIN and HERSCHELL, said was true!
  Durham can crow it o'er the U-
      -niversity of London, Sir!
      -niversity of London, Sir!

[At the repetition of this line young--but degreeless--Medical Student groans in cadence.

  III.

  Degrees! I cannot grant them--true!
    Or it were with a run done, Sir.
  I'm only the Metropolis. Pooh!
  Provincial pedants flout the U-
      -niversity of London, Sir!
      -niversity of London, Sir!

  IV.

  Talk of Home Rule? It's all askew!
    I have it not, for one done, Sir.
  I've taught you; your "trademark"--boohoo!--
  I cannot give you at the U-
      -niversity of London, Sir!
      -niversity of London, Sir!

  V.

  To knowledge in my halls you grew;
    But now you are--dear son, done, Sir!
  You're only a mere Medical Stu-
  -dent at the sorely slighted U-
      -niversity of London, Sir.
      -niversity of London, Sir!

  VI.

  Off--to Newcastle, boy! Adieu!
    By that big vote we're undone, Sir.
  Provincial Colleges have exclu-
  -sive rights denied to the poor U-
      -niversity of London, Sir?
      -niversity of London, Sir!

    [During the last stanza, M.S. beats his breast with his
    stethoscope and goes off--like coals--to Newcastle, or like
    mustard--to Durham--to waste valuable time in getting in those
    colossal provincial centres what "Poor Little London" cannot
    grant him.

       *       *       *       *       *

BREAKFAST TABLE-TALK.

(FROM EDISON'S PHRASE-BOOK.)

Good gracious! what was that horrible noise? It sounded like the falling of a leg of mutton!

Oh! that was only the blow delivered by the Hackney Cockchafer on the eye of the Midland Wrap-Rascal.
It's the best fight I've seen for a long time.

I wish, then, you would take it with you into another room. I can scarcely catch a single word
of the Rev. JABEZ FISHE's delightful sermon, to which I am endeavouring to listen.

Heavens! why all the windows are broken! And the mirrors are shattered! And the chandelier
has come down!

Well, my dear, I am very sorry, but I was much interested in the firing of this new 137-ton
gun, and they have just let it off. That's all.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEOGRAPHICAL.

"Low-lying" districts are much talked about just now as breeding-grounds for the pestiferous
Influenza microbe. The worst "low-lying" districts Punch knows are the editorial offices of
certain scurrilous journals, and the social pestilences they engender and disseminate sorely
need abatement. Perhaps when they have duly fumigated the House, they will turn their attention
to the Office.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BITTER CRY OF OUTCAST COMPETITION.

    "The breakfast at St. James's Hall, which we reported
    yesterday, and which was held in order to allow those who
    partook of it to discuss the possibility of establishing
    in this country a 'non-competitive system of university
    examination,' was, in some respects, a natural outcome of the
    revolt against competition which has of late years made itself
    felt in many different quarters."--The Times.

  I'm in a pretty pickle!
  The world is wondrous fickle;
  But lately it would stickle
    For Progress by Exam.
  And now, in Trade and Learning,
  Against me they seem turning,
  Deliberately discerning
    In me a noxious sham!

  The Laissez-faire philosopher
  My enemies grew gross over;
  But now Economists toss over
    Their idol of old days.
  They swear "Free Competition"
  Leads to Trade inanition:
  That I'm a superstition,
    A cruel vampire craze.

  And now Big Wigs scholastic,
  To modern movements plastic,
  Would try reform most drastic
    Upon the School Exam.
  The ways my nerves that jar on
  AUBERON HERBERT's far on;
  E'en Dr. WARRE makes war on
    Dear old Competitive Cram!

  If pundits thus--at breakfast--
  Neologise, neck-and-neck, fast,
  My kingdom they will wreck fast!
    The Army loves me not;
  Socialists whet their soul-edge
  Against me; now the College
  Swears that my road to knowledge
    Is simply--Tommy rot.

  Revolt? It's most revolting!
  My road might yield some jolting,
  But boobies from it bolting
    Will probably get bogged,
  And, lost in some dim bye-way,
  Regret the well-paved highway
  Along which long in my way
    Contentedly they jogged.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR PARTICULAR TIP FOR THE DERBY.

(FURNISHED BY THE ODD MAN OUT.)

Looking through the List of Probable Starters (who are all coming on well, and might therefore
be called, in the quaint turf Italian, "comeystarters"), I cannot help feeling that this year
the Blue Riband of the Turf will fall to the flower of the flock--as, indeed, it should. But
if it does not, why, there are other really sound horses that are sure to give a good account
of themselves. We may take it, that the winner will be out of the common. As the glorious animal
passes the post, the cheers will be so deafening, that there will be a universal cry, "This
must be ordinance!" As the fun of the Derby of late times has seen some revival, the hero of
the hour will, par excellence, be the doll, which, in spite of many rivals, has never ceased
to be popular. Not that the fun will be fast and furious--not at all; the days of the Mohawks
are over, and I am, therefore, in a position to declare, that the day when it is past and gone,
will be appropriately called a dorcas meeting. And this I can say with the less hesitation
as I rely on the power of a deemster. To everyone the occasion will be pleasant, both to wise
men and persons of a simple sort; to adopt the words of the historical Pieman, "for this meeting
fits Simon." And here let me remark, that I am an enthusiastic admirer of the perambulating
gentleman who outwitted the pastie purchaser; in fact, "I go solid for the Simonian." If the
field is dusty on the morning of the race, it will be following precedent. When I think of
the Derby, I cannot help remembering HENRY THE EIGHTH, for it was to hold the Field of the
Cloth of Gold that that eminent monarch had to raise the dust. Well might FRANÇOIS PREMIER
have observed (as I do), "Bravo, Gouverneur!" If DICKENS's naval hero, the Captain whose words
were always worth "making a note of," were to use the belt of Orion as a support in a sea of
trouble, I should applaud his wisdom. In fact, I should observe, that the occasion was worthy
of the Cuttle's tone. And now to come to business. For after all, what I have written above
is merely a hint to those who require no telling. A prophet to be believed must be mysterious.
But that the simplest understanding may comprehend, I give my final tip. Here it is. This year's
Derby will be won by one of two. It will either fall to the Favourite or--the Field!

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

Tuesday, May 19.--With pleasant recollections of MARIE ROZE and BARTON McGUCKIN, and, as I
think, a Mr. SCOBELL playing the swaggering relative, I went to see Manon, at Covent Garden,
Miss SIBYL SANDERSON being the Heroine, and M. VAN DYCK the Hero.

The new prima donna has everything in her favour, and very soon she was in favour with the
audience, but not in such high favour as was the tenor with the artistic name, who, fairly
taking the audience by assault, constituted himself, pro tem., the man in possession of the
ear of the House. He is a success; as a young master bearing the name of so distinguished an
Old Master should be. [Query, would it be rude to say to a really good Van Dyck, "You go and
be hung!" Perhaps the learned Editor of Musical Notes and Queries will reply. Of course much
depends on the frame.] As for the new soprano SIBYL--more power to her organ! Her acting was
good, but not great, and what ought to be her song par excellence went for nothing, or, at
least, it could have been bought very cheap. There is far more dialogue in Manon than a Covent
Garden audience is accustomed to, and this superfluity is resented by those who come for the
singing, and who, if any talking is to be done, like to do it themselves. The three young ladies
who go about together as a perpetual trio, suggest the notion of a light and airy version,
feminine gender, of the three Anabaptists in the Prophète. M. ISNARDON as Des Grieux, père,
a character that might be operatically nearly related to Germont, père, in La Traviata, was
impressively dramatic, but decidedly disappointing in his one great song, which ought to be
a certain encore. It may be true that an opera intended for a small stage does not stand a
fair chance of success on a large one, and vice versâ, as no doubt the LORD MAYOR's coach provided
by DRURIOLANUS SHERIFFUS for the occasion would look absurd on the stage of the Opéra Comique,
while here when it comes round to the gate to fetch Des Grieux, it creates as great a sensation
as ever it would do in the Strand on the Ninth of November, even with the Sheriff inside it.

