In addition to the various business men, solicitors, civil servants, and widow ladies who lived
in the Morningside Park Avenue, there was a certain family of alien sympathies and artistic
quality, the Widgetts, with which Ann Veronica had become very friendly. Mr. Widgett was a
journalist and art critic, addicted to a greenish-gray tweed suit and "art" brown ties; he
smoked corncob pipes in the Avenue on Sunday morning, travelled third class to London by unusual
trains, and openly despised golf. He occupied one of the smaller houses near the station. He
had one son, who had been co-educated, and three daughters with peculiarly jolly red hair that
Ann Veronica found adorable. Two of these had been her particular intimates at the High School,
and had done much to send her mind exploring beyond the limits of the available literature
at home. It was a cheerful, irresponsible, shamelessly hard-up family in the key of faded green
and flattened purple, and the girls went on from the High School to the Fadden Art School and
a bright, eventful life of art student dances, Socialist meetings, theatre galleries, talking
about work, and even, at intervals, work; and ever and again they drew Ann Veronica from her
sound persistent industry into the circle of these experiences. They had asked her to come
to the first of the two great annual Fadden Dances, the October one, and Ann Veronica had accepted
with enthusiasm. And now her father said she must not go.

He had "put his foot down," and said she must not go.

Going involved two things that all Ann Veronica's tact had been ineffectual to conceal from
her aunt and father. Her usual dignified reserve had availed her nothing. One point was that
she was to wear fancy dress in the likeness of a Corsair's bride, and the other was that she
was to spend whatever vestiges of the night remained after the dance was over in London with
the Widgett girls and a select party in "quite a decent little hotel" near Fitzroy Square.

"But, my dear!" said Ann Veronica's aunt.

"You see," said Ann Veronica, with the air of one who shares a difficulty, "I've promised to
go. I didn't realize--I don't see how I can get out of it now."

Then it was her father issued his ultimatum. He had conveyed it to her, not verbally, but by
means of a letter, which seemed to her a singularly ignoble method of prohibition. "He couldn't
look me in the face and say it," said Ann Veronica.

"But of course it's aunt's doing really."

And thus it was that as Ann Veronica neared the gates of home, she said to herself: "I'll have
it out with him somehow. I'll have it out with him. And if he won't--"

But she did not give even unspoken words to the alternative at that time.

Part 3

Ann Veronica's father was a solicitor with a good deal of company business: a lean, trustworthy,
worried-looking, neuralgic, clean-shaven man of fifty-three, with a hard mouth, a sharp nose,
iron-gray hair, gray eyes, gold-framed glasses, and a small, circular baldness at the crown
of his head. His name was Peter. He had had five children at irregular intervals, of whom Ann
Veronica was the youngest, so that as a parent he came to her perhaps a little practised and
jaded and inattentive; and he called her his "little Vee," and patted her unexpectedly and
disconcertingly, and treated her promiscuously as of any age between eleven and eight-and-twenty.
The City worried him a good deal, and what energy he had left over he spent partly in golf,
a game he treated very seriously, and partly in the practices of microscopic petrography.

He "went in" for microscopy in the unphilosophical Victorian manner as his "hobby." A birthday
present of a microscope had turned his mind to technical microscopy when he was eighteen, and
a chance friendship with a Holborn microscope dealer had confirmed that bent. He had remarkably
skilful fingers and a love of detailed processes, and he had become one of the most dexterous
amateur makers of rock sections in the world. He spent a good deal more money and time than
he could afford upon the little room at the top of the house, in producing new lapidary apparatus
and new microscopic accessories and in rubbing down slices of rock to a transparent thinness
and mounting them in a beautiful and dignified manner. He did it, he said, "to distract his
mind." His chief successes he exhibited to the Lowndean Microscopical Society, where their
high technical merit never failed to excite admiration. Their scientific value was less considerable,
since he chose rocks entirely with a view to their difficulty of handling or their attractiveness
at conversaziones when done. He had a great contempt for the sections the "theorizers" produced.
They proved all sorts of things perhaps, but they were thick, unequal, pitiful pieces of work.
Yet an indiscriminating, wrong-headed world gave such fellows all sorts of distinctions....

He read but little, and that chiefly healthy light fiction with chromatic titles, The Red Sword,
The Black Helmet, The Purple Robe, also in order "to distract his mind." He read it in winter
in the evening after dinner, and Ann Veronica associated it with a tendency to monopolize the
lamp, and to spread a very worn pair of dappled fawn-skin slippers across the fender. She wondered
occasionally why his mind needed so much distraction. His favorite newspaper was the Times,
which he began at breakfast in the morning often with manifest irritation, and carried off
to finish in the train, leaving no other paper at home.

It occurred to Ann Veronica once that she had known him when he was younger, but day had followed
day, and each had largely obliterated the impression of its predecessor. But she certainly
remembered that when she was a little girl he sometimes wore tennis flannels, and also rode
a bicycle very dexterously in through the gates to the front door. And in those days, too,
he used to help her mother with her gardening, and hover about her while she stood on the ladder
and hammered creepers to the scullery wall.

It had been Ann Veronica's lot as the youngest child to live in a home that became less animated
and various as she grew up. Her mother had died when she was thirteen, her two much older sisters
had married off--one submissively, one insubordinately; her two brothers had gone out into
the world well ahead of her, and so she had made what she could of her father. But he was not
a father one could make much of.

His ideas about girls and women were of a sentimental and modest quality; they were creatures,
he thought, either too bad for a modern vocabulary, and then frequently most undesirably desirable,
or too pure and good for life. He made this simple classification of a large and various sex
to the exclusion of all intermediate kinds; he held that the two classes had to be kept apart
even in thought and remote from one another. Women are made like the potter's vessels--either
for worship or contumely, and are withal fragile vessels. He had never wanted daughters. Each
time a daughter had been born to him he had concealed his chagrin with great tenderness and
effusion from his wife, and had sworn unwontedly and with passionate sincerity in the bathroom.
He was a manly man, free from any strong maternal strain, and he had loved his dark-eyed, dainty
bright-colored, and active little wife with a real vein of passion in his sentiment. But he
had always felt (he had never allowed himself to think of it) that the promptitude of their
family was a little indelicate of her, and in a sense an intrusion. He had, however, planned
brilliant careers for his two sons, and, with a certain human amount of warping and delay,
they were pursuing these. One was in the Indian Civil Service and one in the rapidly developing
motor business. The daughters, he had hoped, would be their mother's care.

He had no ideas about daughters. They happen to a man.

Of course a little daughter is a delightful thing enough. It runs about gayly, it romps, it
is bright and pretty, it has enormous quantities of soft hair and more power of expressing
affection than its brothers. It is a lovely little appendage to the mother who smiles over
it, and it does things quaintly like her, gestures with her very gestures. It makes wonderful
sentences that you can repeat in the City and are good enough for Punch. You call it a lot
of nicknames--"Babs" and "Bibs" and "Viddles" and "Vee"; you whack at it playfully, and it
whacks you back. It loves to sit on your knee. All that is jolly and as it should be.

But a little daughter is one thing and a daughter quite another. There one comes to a relationship
that Mr. Stanley had never thought out. When he found himself thinking about it, it upset him
so that he at once resorted to distraction. The chromatic fiction with which he relieved his
mind glanced but slightly at this aspect of life, and never with any quality of guidance. Its
heroes never had daughters, they borrowed other people's. The one fault, indeed, of this school
of fiction for him was that it had rather a light way with parental rights. His instinct was
in the direction of considering his daughters his absolute property, bound to obey him, his
to give away or his to keep to be a comfort in his declining years just as he thought fit.
About this conception of ownership he perceived and desired a certain sentimental glamour,
he liked everything properly dressed, but it remained ownership. Ownership seemed only a reasonable
return for the cares and expenses of a daughter's upbringing. Daughters were not like sons.
He perceived, however, that both the novels he read and the world he lived in discountenanced
these assumptions. Nothing else was put in their place, and they remained sotto voce, as it
were, in his mind. The new and the old cancelled out; his daughters became quasi-independent
dependents--which is absurd. One married as he wished and one against his wishes, and now here
was Ann Veronica, his little Vee, discontented with her beautiful, safe, and sheltering home,
going about with hatless friends to Socialist meetings and art-class dances, and displaying
a disposition to carry her scientific ambitions to unwomanly lengths. She seemed to think he
was merely the paymaster, handing over the means of her freedom. And now she insisted that
she MUST leave the chastened security of the Tredgold Women's College for Russell's unbridled
classes, and wanted to go to fancy dress dances in pirate costume and spend the residue of
the night with Widgett's ramshackle girls in some indescribable hotel in Soho!

He had done his best not to think about her at all, but the situation and his sister had become
altogether too urgent. He had finally put aside The Lilac Sunbonnet, gone into his study, lit
the gas fire, and written the letter that had brought these unsatisfactory relations to a head.

Part 4

MY DEAR VEE, he wrote.

These daughters! He gnawed his pen and reflected, tore the sheet up, and began again.

"MY DEAR VERONICA,--Your aunt tells me you have involved yourself in some arrangement with
the Widgett girls about a Fancy Dress Ball in London. I gather you wish to go up in some fantastic
get-up, wrapped about in your opera cloak, and that after the festivities you propose to stay
with these friends of yours, and without any older people in your party, at an hotel. Now I
am sorry to cross you in anything you have set your heart upon, but I regret to say--"

"H'm," he reflected, and crossed out the last four words.

"--but this cannot be."

"No," he said, and tried again: "but I must tell you quite definitely that I feel it to be
my duty to forbid any such exploit."

"Damn!" he remarked at the defaced letter; and, taking a fresh sheet, he recopied what he had
written. A certain irritation crept into his manner as he did so.

"I regret that you should ever have proposed it," he went on.

He meditated, and began a new paragraph.

"The fact of it is, and this absurd project of yours only brings it to a head, you have begun
to get hold of some very queer ideas about what a young lady in your position may or may not
venture to do. I do not think you quite understand my ideals or what is becoming as between
father and daughter. Your attitude to me--"

He fell into a brown study. It was so difficult to put precisely.

"--and your aunt--"

For a time he searched for the mot juste. Then he went on:

"--and, indeed, to most of the established things in life is, frankly, unsatisfactory. You
are restless, aggressive, critical with all the crude unthinking criticism of youth. You have
no grasp upon the essential facts of life (I pray God you never may), and in your rash ignorance
you are prepared to dash into positions that may end in lifelong regret. The life of a young
girl is set about with prowling pitfalls."

He was arrested for a moment by an indistinct picture of Veronica reading this last sentence.
But he was now too deeply moved to trace a certain unsatisfactoriness to its source in a mixture
of metaphors. "Well," he said, argumentatively, "it IS. That's all about it. It's time she knew."

"The life of a young girl is set about with prowling pitfalls, from which she must be shielded
at all costs."

His lips tightened, and he frowned with solemn resolution.

"So long as I am your father, so long as your life is entrusted to my care, I feel bound by
every obligation to use my authority to check this odd disposition of yours toward extravagant
enterprises. A day will come when you will thank me. It is not, my dear Veronica, that I think
there is any harm in you; there is not. But a girl is soiled not only by evil but by the proximity
of evil, and a reputation for rashness may do her as serious an injury as really reprehensible
conduct. So do please believe that in this matter I am acting for the best."

He signed his name and reflected. Then he opened the study door and called "Mollie!" and returned
to assume an attitude of authority on the hearthrug, before the blue flames and orange glow
of the gas fire.

His sister appeared.

She was dressed in one of those complicated dresses that are all lace and work and confused
patternings of black and purple and cream about the body, and she was in many ways a younger
feminine version of the same theme as himself. She had the same sharp nose--which, indeed,
only Ann Veronica, of all the family, had escaped. She carried herself well, whereas her brother
slouched, and there was a certain aristocratic dignity about her that she had acquired through
her long engagement to a curate of family, a scion of the Wiltshire Edmondshaws. He had died
before they married, and when her brother became a widower she had come to his assistance and
taken over much of the care of his youngest daughter. But from the first her rather old-fashioned
conception of life had jarred with the suburban atmosphere, the High School spirit and the
memories of the light and little Mrs. Stanley, whose family had been by any reckoning inconsiderable--to
use the kindliest term. Miss Stanley had determined from the outset to have the warmest affection
for her youngest niece and to be a second mother in her life--a second and a better one; but
she had found much to battle with, and there was much in herself that Ann Veronica failed to
understand. She came in now with an air of reserved solicitude.

Mr. Stanley pointed to the letter with a pipe he had drawn from his jacket pocket. "What do
you think of that?" he asked.

