As for Mrs. Cliff, her delight in the thought of meeting Captain Horn, great as it was, was
overshadowed by her almost frantic desire to clasp once more in her arms her dear friend Edna.
The clergymen had heard everything that the Summer Shelter people could tell them about Captain
Horn and his exploits, and each man of them was anxious to look into the face and shake the
hand of the brave sailor, whom they had learned to look upon as a hero; and one or two of them
thought that it might be proper, under the circumstances, to resume their clerical attire before
the interview. But this proposition, when mentioned, was discountenanced. They were here as
sailors to work the yacht, and they ought not to be ashamed to look like sailors. The yacht
was now put about and got under headway, and slowly moved in the direction of the approaching
steamer.

When Captain Horn had finished the fight in which he was engaged with the Vittorio, and had
steamed down in the direction of the two other vessels in the vicinity, it was not long before
he discovered that one of them was an American yacht. Why it and the Dunkery Beacon should
be lying there together he could not even imagine, but he was quite sure that this must be
the vessel owned by Mrs. Cliff, and commanded by his old shipmate, Burke.

When at last the Monterey and the Summer Shelter were lying side by side within hailing distance,
and Captain Horn had heard the stentorian voice of Burke roaring through his trumpet, he determined
that he and Edna would go on board the yacht, for there were dead men and wounded men on his
own vessel, and the condition of his deck was not such as he would wish to be seen by Mrs.
Cliff and whatever ladies might be with her.

When Captain Horn and his wife, with Captain Hagar, rowed by four men, reached the side of
the Summer Shelter, they were received with greater honor and joy than had ever been accorded
to an admiral and his suite. The meeting of the five friends was as full of excited affection
as if they were not now standing in the midst of strange circumstances, and, perhaps, many
dangers of which none of them understood but a part.

Captain Horn seized the first opportunity which came to him to ask the question, "What's the
matter with your yacht? You seem to have had a smash-up forward."

"Yes," said Burke, "there's been a collision. Those beastly hounds tried to run us down, but
we caught her squarely on her bow."

At this moment the conversation was interrupted by a shout from Captain Hagar, who had taken
notice of nobody on the yacht, but stood looking over the water at his old ship. "What's the
matter," he cried, "with the Dunkery Beacon? Has she sprung a leak? Are those the pirates still
on board?"

Captain Horn and the others quickly joined him. "Sprung a leak!" cried Shirley. "She's got
a hole in her bow as big as a barrel. I've been on board of her, but I can't tell you about
that now. There's no use to think of doing anything. Those are bloody pirates that are lowering
the boats, and we can't go near them. Besides, you can see for yourself that that steamer is
settling down by the head as fast as she can."

Captain Horn was now almost as much excited as the unfortunate commander of the Dunkery Beacon.
"Where's that gold?" he cried. "Where is it stowed?"

"It is in the forward hold, with a lot of cargo on top of it!" groaned Captain Hagar.

Shirley now spoke again. "Don't think about the gold!" he said. "I kept my eyes opened and
my ears sharpened when I was on board, and although I didn't understand all their lingo, I
knew what they were at. When they found there was no use pumping or trying to stop the leak,
they tried to get at that gold, but they couldn't do it. The water was coming in right there,
and the men would not rig up the tackle to move the cargo. They were all wild when I left."

Captain Horn said no more, but stood with the others, gazing at the Dunkery Beacon. But Captain
Hagar beat his hands upon the rail and declared over and over again that he would rather never
have seen the ship again than to see her sink there before his eyes, with all that treasure
on board. The yacht lay near enough to the Dunkery Beacon for Captain Hagar to see plainly
what was going on on his old ship, without the aid of a glass. With eyes glaring madly over
the water, he stood leaning upon the rail, his face pale, his whole form shaking as if he had
a chill. Every one on the deck of the yacht gathered around him, but no one said anything.
This was no time for asking questions, or making explanations.

The men on the Dunkery Beacon were hurrying to leave the vessel. One of the starboard boats
was already in the water, with too many men in her. The vessel had keeled over so much that
there seemed to be difficulty in lowering the boats on the port side. Everybody seemed rushing
to starboard, and two other boats were swinging out on their davits. Every time the bow of
the steamer rose and fell upon the swell it seemed to go down a little more and up a little
less, and the deck was slanted so much that the men appeared to slide down to the starboard
bulwarks.

Now the first boat pushed off from the sinking ship, and the two others, both crowded, were
soon pulling after her. It was not difficult to divine their intentions. The three boats headed
immediately for the northeast, where, less than two miles away, the Vittorio could be plainly seen.

At this moment Captain Hagar gave a yell; he sprang back from the rail, and his eyes fell upon
a rifle which had been laid on a bench by one of the clergymen. He seized it and raised it
to his shoulder, but in an instant Captain Horn took hold of it, pointing it upward. "What
are you going to do?" he said. "Captain, you don't mean to fire at them?"

"Of course I mean it!" cried Captain Hagar. "We've got them in a bunch. We must follow them
up and shoot them down like rats!"

"We'll get up steam and run them down!" shouted Burke. "We ought to sink them, one boat after
another, the rascally pirates! They tried to sink us!"

"No, no," said Captain Horn, taking the gun from Captain Hagar, "we can't do that. That's a
little too cold-blooded. If they attack us, we'll fight them, but we can't take capital punishment
into our own hands."

Now the excited thoughts of Captain Hagar took another turn. "Lower a boat! Lower a boat!"
he cried. "Let me be pulled to the Dunkery! Everything I own is on that ship, the pirates wouldn't
let me take anything away. Lower a boat! I can get into my cabin."

Shirley now stepped to the other side of Captain Hagar. "It's no use to think of that, Captain,"
he said. "It would be regular suicide to go on board that vessel. Those fellows were afraid
to stay another minute. She'll go down before you know it. Look at her bows now!"

Captain Hagar said no more, and the little company on the deck of the yacht stood pale and
silent, gazing out over the water at the Dunkery Beacon. Willy Croup was crying, and there
were tears in the eyes of Mrs. Cliff and Edna. In the heart of the latter was deep, deep pain,
for she knew what her husband was feeling at that moment. She knew it had been the high aim
of his sensitive and honorable soul that the gold for which he had labored so hard and dared
so much should safely reach, in every case, those to whom it had been legally adjudged. If
it should fail to reach them, where was the good of all that toil and suffering? He had in
a measure taken upon himself the responsibility of the safe delivery of that treasure, and
now here he was standing, and there was the treasure sinking before his eyes. As she stood
close by him, Edna seized her husband's hand and pressed it. He returned the pressure, but
no word was said.

Now the Dunkery Beacon rolled more heavily than she had done yet, and as she went down in the
swell it seemed as if the water might easily flow over her forward bulwarks; and her bow came
up with difficulty, as if it were sticking fast in the water. Her masts and funnel were slanting
far over to starboard, and when, after rising once more, she put her head again into the water,
she dipped it in so deep that her rail went under and did not come up again. Her stern seemed
to rise in the air, and at the same time the sea appeared to lift itself up along her whole
length. Then with a dip forward of her funnel and masts, she suddenly went down out of sight,
and the water churned, and foamed, and eddied about the place where she had been. The gold
of the Incas was on its way to the bottom of the unsounded sea.

Captain Hagar sat down upon the deck and covered his face with his hands. No one said anything
to him,--there was nothing to say. The first to speak was Mrs. Cliff. "Captain Horn," said
she, her voice so shaken by her emotion that she scarcely spoke above a whisper, "we did everything
we could, and this is what has come of it!"

"Everything!" exclaimed Captain Horn, suddenly turning towards her. "You have done far more
than could be expected by mortals! And now," said he, turning to the little party, "don't let
one of us grieve another minute for the sinking of that gold. If anybody has a right to grieve,
it's Captain Hagar here. He's lost his ship, but many a good sailor has lost his ship and lived
and died a happy man after it. And as to the cargo you carried, my mate," said he, "you would
have done your duty by it just the same if it had been pig lead or gold; and when you have
done your duty, there's the end of it!"

Captain Hagar looked up, rose to his feet, and after gazing for a second in the face of Captain
Horn, he took his extended hand. "You're a good one!" said he; "but you're bound to agree that
it's tough. There's no getting around that. It's all-fired tough!"

"Burke," said Captain Horn, quickly, glancing up at the noon-day sun, "put her out there near
the wreckage, and take an observation."

It was shortly after this that Mr. Portman, the sailing-master, came aft and reported the position
of the yacht to be eleven degrees, thirty minutes, nineteen seconds north latitude by fifty-six
degrees, ten minutes, forty-nine seconds west longitude.

"What's the idea," said Burke to Captain Horn, "of steering right to the spot? Do you think
there'll ever be a chance of getting at it?"

Captain Horn was marking the latitude and longitude in his note-book. "Can't say what future
ages may do in the way of deep-sea work," said he, "but I'd like to put a dot on my chart that
will show where the gold went down."

Nothing could be more unprofitable for the shaken and disturbed, spirits of the people on the
Summer Shelter than to stand gazing at the few pieces of wood and the half-submerged hencoop
which floated above the spot where the Dunkery Beacon had gone down, or to look out at the
three boats which the pirates were vigorously rowing towards the steamer in the distance, and
this fact strongly impressed itself upon the practical mind of Mrs. Cliff. "Captain Horn,"
said she, "is there any reason why we should not go away?"

"None in the world," said he, "and there's every reason why your vessel and mine should get
under headway as soon as possible. Where are you bound for now?"

"Wherever you say, Captain," she answered. "This is my ship, and Mr. Burke is my captain, but
we want you to take care of us, and you must tell us where we should go."

"We'll talk it over," said he, and calling Burke and Captain Hagar, a consultation was immediately
held; and it did not take long to come to a decision when all concerned were of the same mind.

It was decided to set sail immediately for Kingston, for each vessel had coal enough, with
the assistance of her sails, to reach that port. Mrs. Cliff insisted that Edna should not go
back to the Monterey, and Captain Horn agreed to this plan, for he did not at all wish any
womankind on the Monterey in her present condition. The yacht had been found to be perfectly
seaworthy, and although a little water was coming in, her steam pump kept her easily disposed
of it. Edna accepted Mrs. Cliff's invitation, provided her husband would agree to remain on
the yacht, and, somewhat to her surprise, he was perfectly willing to do this. The idea had
come to him that the best thing for all parties, and especially for the comfort and relief
of the mind of Captain Hagar, was to put him in command of a ship and give him something to
think about other than the loss of his vessel.

While they were talking over these matters, and making arrangements to send to the Monterey
for Edna's maid and some of her baggage, Captain Horn sought Burke in his room. "I want to
know," said he, "what sort of a crew you've got on board this yacht? One of them--a very intelligent-looking
man, by the way, with black trousers on--came up to me just now and shook hands with me, and
said he was ever so much pleased to make my acquaintance and hoped he would soon have some
opportunities of conversation with me. That isn't the kind of seaman I'm accustomed to."

Burke laughed. "It's the jolliest high-toned, upper-ten crew that ever swabbed a deck or shoveled
coal. They're all ministers."

"Ministers!" ejaculated Captain Horn, absolutely aghast. Then Burke told the story of the Synod.
Captain Horn sank into a chair, leaned back, and laughed until the tears ran down his cheeks.

"I didn't suppose," he said presently, "that anything could make me laugh on a day like this,
but the story of those Synod gentlemen has done it! But, Burke, there's no use of their serving
as seamen any longer. Let them put on their black clothes and be comfortable and happy. I've
got a double crew on board the Monterey, and can bring over just as many men as are needed
to work this yacht. I'll go over myself and detail a crew, and then, when everything is made
ready, I'll come on board here myself. And after that I want you to remember that I'm a passenger
and haven't anything to do with the sailing of this ship. You're Captain and must attend to
your own vessel, and I'm going to make it my business to get acquainted with all these clergymen,
and that lady I see with Mrs. Cliff. Who is she?"

"By George!" exclaimed Burke, "she's the leading trump of the world! That's Willy Croup!"

There was no time then to explain why Willy was a leading trump, but Captain Horn afterwards
heard the story of how she backed the ship, and he did not wonder at Burke's opinion.

When the Summer Shelter, accompanied by the Monterey, had started northward, Burke stood by
Shirley on the bridge. Mr. Burdette had a complete crew of able seamen under his command; there
was a cook in the kitchen, and stewards in the saloons, and there was a carpenter with some
men at work at a spare spar which was to be rigged as a bowsprit.

"I'm mighty glad to lay her course for home," said Burke, "for I've had enough of it as things
are; but if things were not exactly as they are, I wouldn't have enough of it."

"What do you mean?" said Shirley.

"I mean this," was the answer. "If this was my yacht, and there was no women on board, and
no ministers, I would have put on a full head of steam, and I would have gone after those boats,
and I would have run them down, one after another, and drowned every bloody pirate on board
of them. It makes my blood boil to think of those scoundrels getting away after trying to run
us down, and to shoot you!"

