§ 50. Before inquiring whether the law of effect, thus far traced, explains the superiority
of poetry to prose, it will be needful to notice some supplementary causes of force in expression,
that have not yet been mentioned. These are not, properly speaking, additional causes; but
rather secondary ones, originating from those already specified reflex results of them. In
the first place, then, we may remark that mental excitement spontaneously prompts the use of
those forms of speech which have been pointed out as the most effective. "Out with him!" "Away
with him!" are the natural utterances of angry citizens at a disturbed meeting. A voyager,
describing a terrible storm he had witnessed, would rise to some such climax as--"Crack went
the ropes and down came the mast." Astonishment may be heard expressed in the phrase--"Never
was there such a sight!" All of which sentences are, it will be observed, constructed after
the direct type. Again, every one knows that excited persons are given to figures of speech.
The vituperation of the vulgar abounds with them: often, indeed, consists of little else. "Beast,"
"brute," "gallows rogue," "cut-throat villain," these, and other like metaphors and metaphorical
epithets, at once call to mind a street quarrel. Further, it may be noticed that extreme brevity
is another characteristic of passionate language. The sentences are generally incomplete; the
particles are omitted; and frequently important words are left to be gathered from the context.
Great admiration does not vent itself in a precise proposition, as--"It is beautiful"; but
in the simple exclamation--"Beautiful!" He who, when reading a lawyer's letter, should say,
"Vile rascal!" would be thought angry; while, "He is a vile rascal!" would imply comparative
coolness. Thus we see that alike in the order of the words, in the frequent use of figures,
and in extreme conciseness, the natural utterances of excitement conform to the theoretical
conditions of forcible expression.

§ 51. Hence, then, the higher forms of speech acquire a secondary strength from association.
Having, in actual life, habitually heard them in connection with vivid mental impressions,
and having been accustomed to meet with them in the most powerful writing, they come to have
in themselves a species of force. The emotions that have from time to time been produced by
the strong thoughts wrapped up in these forms, are partially aroused by the forms themselves.
They create a certain degree of animation; they induce a preparatory sympathy, and when the
striking ideas looked for are reached, they are the more vividly realized.

§ 52. The continuous use of these modes of expression that are alike forcible in themselves
and forcible from their associations, produces the peculiarly impressive species of composition
which we call poetry. Poetry, we shall find, habitually adopts those symbols of thought, and
those methods of using them, which instinct and analysis agree in choosing as most effective,
and becomes poetry by virtue of doing this. On turning back to the various specimens that have
been quoted, it will be seen that the direct or inverted form of sentence predominates in them;
and that to a degree quite inadmissible in prose. And not only in the frequency, but in what
is termed the violence of the inversions, will this distinction be remarked. In the abundant
use of figures, again, we may recognize the same truth. Metaphors, similes, hyperboles, and
personifications, are the poet's colours, which he has liberty to employ almost without limit.
We characterize as "poetical" the prose which uses these appliances of language with any frequency,
and condemn it as "over florid" or "affected" long before they occur with the profusion allowed
in verse. Further, let it be remarked that in brevity--the other requisite of forcible expression
which theory points out, and emotion spontaneously fulfils--poetical phraseology similarly
differs from ordinary phraseology. Imperfect periods are frequent; elisions are perpetual;
and many of the minor words, which would be deemed essential in prose, are dispensed with.

§ 53. Thus poetry, regarded as a vehicle of thought, is especially impressive partly because
it obeys all the laws of effective speech, and partly because in so doing it imitates the natural
utterances of excitement. While the matter embodied is idealized emotion, the vehicle is the
idealized language of emotion. As the musical composer catches the cadences in which our feelings
of joy and sympathy, grief and despair, vent themselves, and out of these germs evolves melodies
suggesting higher phases of these feelings; I so, the poet develops from the typical expressions
in which men utter passion and sentiment, those choice forms of verbal combination in which
concentrated passion and sentiment may be fitly presented.

§ 54. There is one peculiarity of poetry conducing much to its effect--the peculiarity which
is indeed usually thought its characteristic one--still remaining to be considered: we mean
its rhythmical structure. This, improbable though it seems, will be found to come under the
same generalization with the others. Like each of them, it is an idealization of the natural
language of strong emotion, which is known to be more or less metrical if the emotion be not
too violent; and like each of them it is an economy of the reader's or hearer's attention.
In the peculiar tone and manner we adopt in uttering versified language, may be discerned its
relationship to the feelings; and the pleasure which its measured movement gives us, is ascribable
to the comparative ease with which words metrically arranged can be recognized.

§ 55. This last position will scarcely be at once admitted; but a little explanation will show
its reasonableness. For if, as we have seen, there is an expenditure of mental energy in the
mere act of listening to verbal articulations, or in that silent repetition of them which goes
on in reading--if the perceptive faculties must be in active exercise to identify every syllable--then,
any mode of so combining words as to present a regular recurrence of certain traits which the
mind can anticipate, will diminish that strain upon the attention required by the total irregularity
of prose. Just as the body, in receiving a series of varying concussions, must keep the muscles
ready to meet the most violent of them, as not knowing when such may come; so, the mind in
receiving unarranged articulations, must keep its perceptives active enough to recognize the
least easily caught sounds. And as, if the concussions recur in a definite order, the body
may husband its forces by adjusting the resistance needful for each concussion; so, if the
syllables be rhythmically arranged, the mind may economize its energies by anticipating the
attention required for each syllable.

§ 56. Far-fetched though this idea will perhaps be thought, a little introspection will countenance
it. That we do take advantage of metrical language to adjust our perceptive faculties to the
force of the expected articulations, is clear from the fact that we are balked by halting versification.
Much as at the bottom of a flight of stairs, a step more or less than we counted upon gives
us a shock; so, too, does a misplaced accent or a supernumerary syllable. In the one case,
we know that there is an erroneous preadjustment; and we can scarcely doubt that there is one
in the other. But if we habitually preadjust our perceptions to the measured movement of verse,
the physical analogy above given renders it probable that by so doing we economize attention;
and hence that metrical language is more effective than prose, because it enables us to do this.

§ 57. Were there space, it might be worthwhile to inquire whether the pleasure we take in rhyme,
and also that which we take in euphony, axe not partly ascribable to the same general cause.

PART II. CAUSES OF FORCE IN LANGUAGE WHICH DEPEND UPON ECONOMY OF THE MENTAL SENSIBILITIES.

i. The Law of Mental Exhaustion and Repair.

§ 58. A few paragraphs only, can be devoted to a second division of our subject that here presents
itself. To pursue in detail the laws of effect, as applying to the larger features of composition,
would carry us beyond our limits. But we may briefly indicate a further aspect of the general
principle hitherto traced out, and hint a few of its wider applications.

§ 59. Thus far, then, we have considered only those causes of force in language which depend
upon economy of the mental energies: we have now to glance at those which depend upon economy
of the mental sensibilities. Questionable though this division may be as a psychological one,
it will yet serve roughly to indicate the remaining field of investigation. It will suggest
that besides considering the extent to which any faculty or group of faculties is tasked in
receiving a form of words and realizing its contained idea, we have to consider the state in
which this faculty or group of faculties is left; and how the reception of subsequent sentences
and images will be influenced by that state. Without going at length into so wide a topic as
the exercise of faculties and its reactive effects, it will be sufficient here to call to mind
that every faculty (when in a state of normal activity) is most capable at the outset; and
that the change in its condition, which ends in what we term exhaustion, begins simultaneously
with its exercise. This generalization, with which we are all familiar in our bodily experiences,
and which our daily language recognizes as true of the mind as a whole, is equally true of
each mental power, from the simplest of the senses to the most complex of the sentiments. If
we hold a flower to the nose for long, we become insensible to its scent. We say of a very
brilliant flash of lightning that it blinds us; which means that our eyes have for a time lost
their ability to appreciate light. After eating a quantity of honey, we are apt to think our
tea is without sugar. The phrase "a deafening roar," implies that men find a very loud sound
temporarily incapacitates them for hearing faint ones. To a hand which has for some time carried
a heavy body, small bodies afterwards lifted seem to have lost their weight. Now, the truth
at once recognized in these, its extreme manifestations, may be traced throughout. It may be
shown that alike in the reflective faculties, in the imagination, in the perceptions of the
beautiful, the ludicrous, the sublime, in the sentiments, the instincts, in all the mental
powers, however we may classify them-action exhausts; and that in proportion as the action
is violent, the subsequent prostration is great.

§ 60. Equally, throughout the whole nature, may be traced the law that exercised faculties
are ever tending to resume their original state. Not only after continued rest, do they regain
their full power not only do brief cessations partially reinvigorate them; but even while they
are in action, the resulting exhaustion is ever being neutralized. The two processes of waste
and repair go on together. Hence with faculties habitually exercised--as the senses of all
persons, or the muscles of any one who is strong--it happens that, during moderate activity,
the repair is so nearly equal to the waste, that the diminution of power is scarcely appreciable;
and it is only when the activity has been long continued, or has been very violent, that the
repair becomes so far in arrear of the waste as to produce a perceptible prostration. In all
cases, however, when, by the action of a faculty, waste has been incurred, some lapse of time
must take place before full efficiency can be reacquired; and this time must be long in proportion
as the waste has been great.

ii Explanation of Climax, Antithesis, and Anticlimax.

§ 61. Keeping in mind these general truths, we shall be in a condition to understand certain
causes of effect in composition now to be considered. Every perception received, and every
conception realized, entailing some amount of waste--or, as Liebig would say, some change of
matter in the brain; and the efficiency of the faculties subject to this waste being thereby
temporarily, though often but momentarily, diminished; the resulting partial inability must
affect the acts of perception and conception that immediately succeed. And hence we may expect
that the vividness with which images are realized will, in many cases, depend on the order
of their presentation: even when one order is as convenient to the understanding as the other.

§ 62. There are sundry facts which alike illustrate this, and are explained by it. Climax is
one of them. The marked effect obtained by placing last the most striking of any series of
images, and the weakness--often the ludicrous weakness--produced by reversing this arrangement,
depends on the general law indicated. As immediately after looking at the sun we cannot perceive
the light of a fire, while by looking at the fire first and the sun afterwards we can perceive
both; so, after receiving a brilliant, or weighty, or terrible thought, we cannot appreciate
a less brilliant, less weighty, or less terrible one, while, by reversing the order, we can
appreciate each. In Antithesis, again, we may recognize the same general truth. The opposition
of two thoughts that are the reverse of each other in some prominent trait, insures an impressive
effect; and does this by giving a momentary relaxation to the faculties addressed. If, after
a series of images of an ordinary character, appealing in a moderate degree to the sentiment
of reverence, or approbation, or beauty, the mind has presented to it a very insignificant,
a very unworthy, or a very ugly image; the faculty of reverence, or approbation, or beauty,
as the case may be, having for the time nothing to do, tends to resume its full power; and
will immediately afterwards appreciate a vast, admirable, or beautiful image better than it
would otherwise do. Conversely, where the idea of absurdity due to extreme insignificance is
to be produced, it maybe greatly intensified by placing it after something highly impressive:
especially if the form of phrase implies that something still more impressive is coming. A
good illustration of the effect gained by thus presenting a petty idea to a consciousness that
has not yet recovered from the shock of an exciting one, occurs in a sketch by Balzac. His
hero writes to a mistress who has cooled towards him the following letter:

"Madame, Votre conduite m'étonne autant qu'elle m'afflige Non contente de me déchirer le coeur
par vos dédains vous avez l'indélicatesse de me retenir une brosse à dents, que mes moyens
ne me permettent pas de remplacer, mes propriétés etant grevées d'hypothèques

"Adieu, trop, belle et trop ingrate ainie! Puissions nous nous revoir dans un monde meilleur!

"Charles Edouard"

