Vailima Letters

CHAPTER I

IN THE MOUNTAIN, APIA, SAMOA, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2ND, 1890

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is a hard and interesting and  beautiful life that we lead now.  For
near a fortnight I  did not go beyond the verandah; then I found my rush of work  run out,
and went down for the night to Apia; put in Sunday  afternoon with our consul, 'a nice young
man,' dined with my  friend H. J. Moors in the evening, went to church - no less -  at the
white and half-white church - I had never been before,  and was much interested; the woman
I sat next LOOKED a full- blood native, and it was in the prettiest and readiest  English that
she sang the hymns; back to Moors', where we  yarned of the islands, being both wide wanderers,
till bed- time; bed, sleep, breakfast, horse saddled; round to the  mission, to get Mr. Clarke
to be my interpreter; over with  him to the King's, whom I have not called on since my return;
received by that mild old gentleman; have some interesting  talk with him about Samoan superstitions
and my land - the  scene of a great battle in his (Malietoa Laupepa's) youth -  the place which
we have cleared the platform of his fort -  the gulley of the stream full of dead bodies -
the fight  rolled off up Vaea mountain-side; back with Clarke to the  Mission; had a bit of
lunch and consulted over a queer point  of missionary policy just arisen, about our new Town
Hall and  the balls there - too long to go into, but a quaint example  of the intricate questions
which spring up daily in the  missionary path.

Then off up the hill; Jack very fresh, the sun (close on  noon) staring hot, the breeze very
strong and pleasant; the  ineffable green country all round - gorgeous little birds (I  think
they are humming birds, but they say not) skirmishing  in the wayside flowers.  About a quarter
way up I met a  native coming down with the trunk of a cocoa palm across his  shoulder; his
brown breast glittering with sweat and oil:  'Talofa' - 'Talofa, alii - You see that white
man?  He speak  for you.'  'White man he gone up here?' - 'Ioe (Yes)' -  'Tofa, alii' - 'Tofa,
soifua!'  I put on Jack up the steep  path, till he is all as white as shaving stick - Brown's
euxesis, wish I had some - past Tanugamanono, a bush village  - see into the houses as I pass
- they are open sheds  scattered on a green - see the brown folk sitting there,  suckling kids,
sleeping on their stiff wooden pillows - then  on through the wood path - and here I find the
mysterious  white man (poor devil!) with his twenty years' certificate of  good behaviour as
a book-keeper, frozen out by the strikes in  the colonies, come up here on a chance, no work
to be found,  big hotel bill, no ship to leave in - and come up to beg  twenty dollars because
he heard I was a Scotchman, offering  to leave his portmanteau in pledge.  Settle this, and
on  again; and here my house comes in view, and a war whoop  fetches my wife and Henry (or
Simele), our Samoan boy, on the  front balcony; and I am home again, and only sorry that I
shall have to go down again to Apia this day week.  I could,  and would, dwell here unmoved,
but there are things to be  attended to.

Never say I don't give you details and news.  That is a  picture of a letter.

I have been hard at work since I came; three chapters of THE  WRECKER, and since that, eight
of the South Sea book, and,  along and about and in between, a hatful of verses.  Some day
I'll send the verse to you, and you'll say if any of it is  any good.  I have got in a better
vein with the South Sea  book, as I think you will see; I think these chapters will do  for
the volume without much change.  Those that I did in the  JANET NICOLL, under the most ungodly
circumstances, I fear  will want a lot of suppling and lightening, but I hope to  have your
remarks in a month or two upon that point.  It  seems a long while since I have heard from
you.  I do hope  you are well.  I am wonderful, but tired from so much work;  'tis really immense
what I have done; in the South Sea book I  have fifty pages copied fair, some of which has
been four  times, and all twice written, certainly fifty pages of solid  scriving inside a
fortnight, but I was at it by seven a.m.  till lunch, and from two till four or five every
day; between  whiles, verse and blowing on the flageolet; never outside.   If you could see
this place! but I don't want any one to see  it till my clearing is done, and my house built.
It will be  a home for angels.

So far I wrote after my bit of dinner, some cold meat and  bananas, on arrival.  Then out to
see where Henry and some of  the men were clearing the garden; for it was plain there was 
to be no work to-day indoors, and I must set in consequence  to farmering.  I stuck a good
while on the way up, for the  path there is largely my own handiwork, and there were a lot
of sprouts and saplings and stones to be removed.  Then I  reached our clearing just where
the streams join in one; it  had a fine autumn smell of burning, the smoke blew in the  woods,
and the boys were pretty merry and busy.  Now I had a  private design:-

[Map which cannot be reproduced]

The Vaita'e I had explored pretty far up; not yet the other  stream, the Vaituliga (g=nasal
n, as ng in sing); and up  that, with my wood knife, I set off alone.  It is here quite  dry;
it went through endless woods; about as broad as a  Devonshire lane, here and there crossed
by fallen trees; huge  trees overhead in the sun, dripping lianas and tufted with  orchids,
tree ferns, ferns depending with air roots from the  steep banks, great arums - I had not skill
enough to say if  any of them were the edible kind, one of our staples here! -  hundreds of
bananas - another staple - and alas!  I had skill  enough to know all of these for the bad
kind that bears no  fruit.  My Henry moralised over this the other day; how hard  it was that
the bad banana flourished wild, and the good must  be weeded and tended; and I had not the
heart to tell him how  fortunate they were here, and how hungry were other lands by  comparison.
The ascent of this lovely lane of my dry stream  filled me with delight.  I could not but be
reminded of old  Mayne Reid, as I have been more than once since I came to the  tropics; and
I thought, if Reid had been still living, I  would have written to tell him that, for, me,
IT HAD COME  TRUE; and I thought, forbye, that, if the great powers go on  as they are going,
and the Chief Justice delays, it would  come truer still; and the war-conch will sound in the
hills,  and my home will be inclosed in camps, before the year is  ended.  And all at once
- mark you, how Mayne Reid is on the  spot - a strange thing happened.  I saw a liana stretch
across the bed of the brook about breast-high, swung up my  knife to sever it, and - behold,
it was a wire!  On either  hand it plunged into thick bush; to-morrow I shall see where  it
goes and get a guess perhaps of what it means.  To-day I  know no more than - there it is.
A little higher the brook  began to trickle, then to fill.  At last, as I meant to do  some
work upon the homeward trail, it was time to turn.  I  did not return by the stream; knife
in hand, as long as my  endurance lasted, I was to cut a path in the congested bush.

At first it went ill with me; I got badly stung as high as  the elbows by the stinging plant;
I was nearly hung in a  tough liana - a rotten trunk giving way under my feet; it was  deplorable
bad business.  And an axe - if I dared swing one -  would have been more to the purpose than
my cutlass.  Of a  sudden things began to go strangely easier; I found stumps,  bushing out
again; my body began to wonder, then my mind; I  raised my eyes and looked ahead; and, by George,
I was no  longer pioneering, I had struck an old track overgrown, and  was restoring an old
path.  So I laboured till I was in such  a state that Carolina Wilhelmina Skeggs could scarce
have  found a name for it.  Thereon desisted; returned to the  stream; made my way down that
stony track to the garden,  where the smoke was still hanging and the sun was still in  the
high tree-tops, and so home.  Here, fondly supposing my  long day was over, I rubbed down;
exquisite agony; water  spreads the poison of these weeds; I got it all over my  hands, on
my chest, in my eyes, and presently, while eating  an orange, A LA Raratonga, burned my lip
and eye with orange  juice.  Now, all day, our three small pigs had been adrift,  to the mortal
peril of our corn, lettuce, onions, etc., and  as I stood smarting on the back verandah, behold
the three  piglings issuing from the wood just opposite.  Instantly I  got together as many
boys as I could - three, and got the  pigs penned against the rampart of the sty, till the
others  joined; whereupon we formed a cordon, closed, captured the  deserters, and dropped
them, squeaking amain, into their  strengthened barracks where, please God, they may now stay!

Perhaps you may suppose the day now over; you are not the  head of a plantation, my juvenile
friend.  Politics  succeeded: Henry got adrift in his English, Bene was too  cowardly to tell
me what he was after: result, I have lost  seven good labourers, and had to sit down and write
to you to  keep my temper.  Let me sketch my lads. - Henry - Henry has  gone down to town or
I could not be writing to you - this  were the hour of his English lesson else, when he learns
what  he calls 'long expessions' or 'your chief's language' for the  matter of an hour and
a half - Henry is a chiefling from  Savaii; I once loathed, I now like and - pending fresh
discoveries - have a kind of respect for Henry.  He does good  work for us; goes among the
labourers, bossing and watching;  helps Fanny; is civil, kindly, thoughtful; O SI SIC SEMPER!
But will he be 'his sometime self throughout the year'?   Anyway, he has deserved of us, and
he must disappoint me  sharply ere I give him up. - Bene - or Peni-Ben, in plain  English -
is supposed to be my ganger; the Lord love him!   God made a truckling coward, there is his
full history.  He  cannot tell me what he wants; he dares not tell me what is  wrong; he dares
not transmit my orders or translate my  censures.  And with all this, honest, sober, industrious,
miserably smiling over the miserable issue of his own  unmanliness. - Paul - a German - cook
and steward - a glutton  of work - a splendid fellow; drawbacks, three: (1) no cook;  (2) an
inveterate bungler; a man with twenty thumbs,  continually falling in the dishes, throwing
out the dinner,  preserving the garbage; (3) a dr-, well, don't let us say  that - but we daren't
let him go to town, and he - poor, good  soul - is afraid to be let go. - Lafaele (Raphael),
a strong,  dull, deprecatory man; splendid with an axe, if watched; the  better for a rowing,
when he calls me 'Papa' in the most  wheedling tones; desperately afraid of ghosts, so that
he  dare not walk alone up in the banana patch - see map.  The  rest are changing labourers;
and to-night, owing to the  miserable cowardice of Peni, who did not venture to tell me  what
the men wanted - and which was no more than fair - all  are gone - and my weeding in the article
of being finished!   Pity the sorrows of a planter.

I am, Sir, yours, and be jowned to you, The Planter, R. L. S.

Tuesday 3rd

I begin to see the whole scheme of letter-writing; you sit  down every day and pour out an
equable stream of twaddle.

