But where is all Newport? Why, on the road to Cowes, to be sure; for who dreams of staying
at home on the day of sailing for the King's Cup? If the "courteous reader" will accompany
us, we will descant on the scenery presented on the road, as well as the numerous vehicles
and thronging pedestrians will permit us. Leaving the town-like extent of the Albany Barracks,
the prospect on the left is the Medina, graced with gently gliding boats and barges, and skirted
by fine woods. Opposite is the wood-embosomed village of Whippingham, from which peers the
"time-worn tower" of the little church. Passing another romantic hamlet (Northwood) the river
approaching its mighty mother, the sea, widens into laky breadth; and here the prospect is
almost incomparable. On a lofty and woody hill stands the fine modern castellated residence
of John Nash, Esq. an erection worthy of the baronial era, lifting its ponderous turrets in
the gleaming sunshine; and on another elevation contiguous to the sea, is the castle of the
eccentric Lord Henry Seymour, a venerable pile of antique beauty. Here the spectator, however
critical in landscape scenery, cannot fail to be gratified; the blended and harmonizing shades
of wood, rock, and water; the diversities of architecture, displayed in castle, cottage, and
villa; the far-off heights of St. George's and St. Catherine's overtopping the valley; the
fine harbour of Cowes, filled with the sails of divers countries, and studded with anchored
yachts, decked in their distinguishing flags; and around, the illimitable waters of the ocean
encircling the island, form an interesting coup d'oeil of scenery which might almost rival
the imaginary magnificence of Arcadia.

Approaching Cowes by the rural by-road adjoining Northwood Park, the residence of George Ward,
Esq. the ocean scenery is sublimely beautiful. In the distance is seen the opposite shores,
with Calshot Castle, backed by the New Forest, and one side of it, divided by Southampton Water,
and the woods of Netley Abbey. Here we descried the contending yachts, ploughing their way
in the direction of the Needles; but as our acquaintance with the sailing regulations of the
Royal Yacht Club will not admit of our awarding the precedence to one or the other, we will
descend from the elevation of Northwood, amidst the din of music from the Club House, and the
hum of promenaders on the beach, and ensconce ourselves in the snug parlour of "mine host"
Paddy White, whom we used to denominate the Falstaff of the island. Though from the land of
shillelaghs and whiskey, Paddy is entirely devoid of that gunpowder temperament which characterizes
his country; and his genuine humour, ample obesity, and originality of delivery, entitle him
to honourable identification with "Sir John." Now, by the soul of Momus! who ever beheld a
woe-begone face at Paddy White's? Even our own, remarkable for "loathed melancholy," has changed
its moody contour into the lineaments of mirth, while listening to him. View him holding forth
to his auditors between the intervening whiffs of his soothing pipe, and you see written in
wreaths of humour on his jolly countenance, the spirit of Falstaff's interrogatory, "What,
shall I not take mine ease at mine inn?" The most serious moods he evinces are, when after
detailing the local chronology of Cowes, and relating the obituary of "the bar," consisting
of the deaths of dram-drinking landladies, and dropsical landlords, he pathetically relaxes
the rotundity of his cheeks, and exclaims, "Poor Tom! he was a good un." But we must to the
beach, and glance at the motley concourse assembled to behold the nautical contest.

