Had the word been originally written sixty, the chances are that there would be no perceptible
break between the x and the t. Few persons write such short words in a disconnected manner.
On placing the word under an ordinary glass the point of junction will be plainly apparent,
and a microscope, or an enlarged photograph, cannot fail to reveal the fraud. Of course these
latter tests will not be possible under the ordinary circumstances attending the paying out
of a cheque over the counter, but when once the peculiarities of such alterations have been
studied, it is marvellous how quick the eye becomes in recognizing them at a glance.

Erasure in writings on stout thick paper is not quite so readily noticed as those on thin paper
such as cheques; but the same methods of examination will apply--holding the document to the
light, or level with and horizontal to the eye. A very effective application of the latter
test is to bend or curve the paper, making an arch. The bending has a tendency to stretch and
widen the erased part, and if any smoothing substance such as starch or wax has been added
to restore the gloss of the scraped portion, it will usually reveal itself by separating and
coming away in dust or tiny flakes. This process may be accentuated by drawing the suspected
document over a ruler, or, better still, a pencil, repeating the motion several times.

CHAPTER XII.

PENCILS AND STYLOGRAPHS.

It is obvious that writing executed with a pencil or the now much-used stylograph will differ
in many respects from that performed by an ordinary pen. It is not too much to say that their
use will eliminate many features and introduce new ones. This change is mainly brought about
by the different way in which a pencil or stylograph is held in comparison with a pen. There
is a much greater sense of freedom. The pencil can be, and is, turned and twisted in the process
of making a stroke as a pen cannot be, and the signs of this freedom become apparent in a more
rounded stroke. Even a writer whose characters are acutely angular shows a tendency to a more
graceful outline. As a matter of fact, it is comparatively rare to meet a pencilled writing
that is pronouncedly angular.

The same remarks apply with only little modification to writing produced by the stylograph,
and for the same reason--the ease and freedom with which the instrument is held.

There is no possibility of mistaking writing produced by a stylograph for that of an ordinary
steel nib. The strokes are absolutely uniform in thickness. No nib-formed writing can be so,
for it is impossible for a writer, however careful, to avoid putting pressure on his pen at
some point; and the opening of the nib, however slight, must produce an apparent thickening.

Therefore, recognising these facts, the expert is always extremely careful in giving an opinion
upon a writing produced by pencil or stylo unless he have ample specimens of the writer's productions
done with these instruments.

At the same time, although an absence of characteristics present in pen writing would be noticeable,
the main features would exist: for example, the space between words and letters would be the
same; the dot over the i would be in its customary position; the bar of the t would be of the
same type as heretofore. The principal changes would be in the direction of a more uniform
stroke with a tendency to greater rotundity.

