 The wings of a bird make him able to
fly, and the tail guides him through the air, just as you may see the men steer boats with
the rudder; and if you pulled the feathers off his tail, he would not be able to fly near so
straight or fast as when they are on. When the rain falls on the feathers, they are never soaked
through with it as a piece of rag would be if you threw water on it, because they are covered
with a sort of oil which does not let in the water. If you ever look at a duck dive into the
water, you can see it when it comes up quite dry; but if you dipped you head into the water
it would wet it all over. When little birds, such as the sparrow and canary, come out of the
egg, they have no feathers on, but the old ones cover them with their wings to keep the cold
away, and the feathers soon grow, and then they can fly away and find food and make nests for
themselves; but large birds, such as the goose, turkey, hen, and duck, have a sort of soft
down on them when they come out of the shell, and little ducks will go and swim as soon as
they are hatched, as I suppose some of you have seen.

Some birds' feathers are much prettier than others: the goose has not such pretty feathers
as the swan, nor the swan as the peacock; but we must not think ill of the goose for this,
for its flesh is better to eat than either the peacock or swan. I am sure many of you little
children like roast goose. The peacock has very pretty feathers indeed, and so has the pheasant,
and the drake, and the cock; but some birds that live in countries many hundred miles away
from this, have much prettier than any bird that lives in this country. This feather that we
have for our lesson is the feather of a goose; it is not very pretty, but if we examine it
well we shall find it is very curious, and all the men in the world could not make one like
it. Goose feathers are the most useful; the small ones make stuffing for pillows and beds,
and the large ones make pens to write with. Birds change their feathers often; they drop off
and they get new ones; this is called moulting.

Having thus given the children as much information on the subject as they will be likely to
be able to digest properly, you may then get it back from them by question and answer; as for
instance

Q. What have we been talking about? A. Birds' feathers. Q. Do they do the birds any good? A.
Yes, keep them warm. Q. What more good? A. Make them able to fly. Q. Who gives the birds feathers
to make them warm? A. God. Q. Are feathers very heavy? A. No, very light. Q. What is the reason
that they are very light? A. That they may fly easily. Q. What part of the body does a bird
fly with? A. Its wings. Q. Is no other part useful in flying? A. Yes. Q. Do you remember what
part? A. Its tail. Q. Of what use is its tail? A. To guide it. Q. What do you mean by guiding
it? A. Turning it any way it wants to go. Q. What is the reason that birds' feathers do not
get all full of wet when the rain falls on them? A. Because there is an oily juice that makes
the rain fall off. Q. When little birds, such as sparrows and robins, come out of the eggs,
have they got feathers? A. No, they are naked. Q. Are they very long naked? A. No, in a few
days the feathers grow. Q. Is it not curious that the cold does not kill the little birds while
they are naked? A. So it would, only the old ones sit over them and keep them warm. Q. Are
ducks and turkeys and hens naked when the come out of the shell? A. No. Q. What are they covered
with? A. A sort of down. Q. Do you know of any bird that has very pretty feathers? A. Yes,
the peacock. Q. Is it prettier than the goose? A. Yes. Q. Is it so useful? A. No. Q. What do
the goose feathers make? A. The feathers in the quill make pelts? Q. What do the small ones
make? A. They make stuffing for pillows and beds. Q. Where do the prettiest birds live? A.
In very warm places, far away from this. Q. Do the same feathers always remain on a bird? A.
No, they drop off, and new ones come. Q. What is this called? A. Moulting.

Such lessons as this will never be forgotten by the little ones. They will learn to adore the
great God at the sight of any thing he has made. It is hoped they learn to love to read Nature's
book when they grow older, as every correct notion obtained by a child, through a natural object,
which it is frequently accustomed to meet with, can never be entirely effaced; and what is
more, it prepares the way, at some future time, for a larger amount of knowledge as to God's
revealed will.

A spider, a living specimen of which may be easily procured, may be made a very instructive
gallery lesson; it may prevent the fears and foolish prejudices against ugly yet harmless insects,
which often remain through life. Part of a bush may be procured with a real web and spider
upon it, so that its beautiful and highly curious web may be also exhibited to the children,
its uses may be also pointed out, and a short history of the little animal's habits may be
given, but not before their opinions have been taken on the object, which may be done in a
similar manner as that which we pointed out in the former lesson, and then the teacher may
proceed thus:

You have told me that this little creature is called a spider, and some of you think it very
ugly, and say you are afraid of it, but sensible children will not be frightened at a spider,
because they will remember that they are very harmless little things, and have not got a sting
as the wasp and bee have. They are very ugly, to be sure, but every ugly insect is not to be
called a nasty creature, for some are very useful, notwithstanding their not being as handsome
as others; and spiders are very useful too, although very few people know how to make use of
them; but they little think that the poor little insect which they brush off the wall, and
trample under their feet, can tell them what weather they are going to have, as sure, and surer
than a weather-glass. When the weather is going to be fine it peeps its head out of its hole,
and stretches out its legs; and the farther its legs and head are out, the longer will the
fine weather stay. When the weather is going to be very bad it goes farther back; and when
very dreadful and stormy weather is going to come, it turns its back to the door of its hole
and its head inside. In winter, when frost and snow is going to commence, they make their webs
very fast, and by this you may know the frosty weather is coming; so you see, children, that
spiders may be useful to know what kind of weather we shall have.

Spiders are very cunning; they live on flies; but they could never catch them, only they are
able to weave a strong web, which they do in a place where the flies often come; and when a
poor fly gets into the web, the spider runs out and soon kills it, and then drags it up to
his den, where he eats it at his ease, and hides the wings and skin, that the other flies may
not see them; but if an enemy stronger than itself comes to his web, the spider remains in
his hole till the danger is all over. Some spiders that live in countries far away are a great
deal larger and uglier than our spiders; but we need not be ever afraid of a spider, because
they can neither bite nor sting us, and are very curious insects. Q. What have I been telling
you about? A. The spider. Q. Are you afraid of it? A. No, you told us it would do us no harm.
Q. Are spiders very ugly? A. They are. Q. Should we think badly of them for this? A. No. Q.
Who made the spider? A. God. Q. Does he not make every animal, whether handsome or ugly? A.
Yes. Q. Can spiders be of use? A. They will tell us what weather we are going to have. Q. When
it is going to be fine what do they do? A. They put their legs and head out of their hole.
Q. When it is going to be bad weather what do they do? A. They turn their heads round and go
into their holes. Q. When the weather is going to be very cold and frosty what do they do?
A. They build their webs very fast. Q. What do they live upon? A. Flies. Q. How do they catch
them? A. By making webs. Q. When a fly gets into their web what do they do? A. They kill it
and eat it. Q. Are the spiders in other countries larger than ours? A. Yes, in some places
they are much larger and uglier. Q. Who teaches the spider to make its web? A. God. Q. Could
any man in the world make a spider's web? A. No, no one could do it.

The teacher may then add thus:--Thus you see, little children, that every living thing has
some merit of its own, and can do many things which we cannot do, although God has given us
the means to become so much wiser than they; and be sure you are not frightened at them, nor
put them to unnecessary pain. Some other day I will tell you what is the shape of the spider's
web, and shew you what a number of regular figures the spider's web is composed of.

Almost every object, however simple it may be, will form an instructive gallery lesson; thus
for example, you may take a piece of bog-turf, and after submitting it to the inspection of
the infants, you may inquire, What is this? If it be in a country where turf is used, a general
exclamation will inform you of its name; if not, you may find a better and more familiar object
for your lesson. When you have got the name, you may then ask its uses, and will soon find
that the children are well acquainted with them. You may then proceed to give your own information
on the subject in something like the following words, taking care that you use no word that
the children do not themselves understand, or that you have not explained to them.

Little children, look at what I hold. You have told me it is a piece of bog-turf, and it is
used to make fires. In Ireland turf is more used to make fires than coal, because it is very
plentiful there, and many of the poor people in Ireland build their houses of it, and when
they keep them well mended and covered, they are very warm and comfortable, and they burn good
turf fires in their turf houses; but some of them are lazy, and do not keep their turf houses
mended, so the rain comes in, and they are very miserable, and so will all idle lazy people
be. I hope no little child here will be lazy, Now I will tell you where they get all this turf,
they dig it out of the bogs. There are bogs in England; they call them mosses or fens, and
in Scotland there are bogs, but the bogs in Ireland are much more plentiful. Some of them are
so very large that you cannot see across them, and a great many birds live amongst them, such
as wild ducks, and geese, and cranes, and herons, and snipe, all of which I will tell you about
some other time. Those great bogs are very wild, lonesome, dreary places; no person can live
on them, because they are so wet and soft, and they are full of great deep holes with water
in them, which are called bog holes, and if any person fell in they would be drowned. Sometimes
in the middle of this great bog you will see a pretty green island, where the land is firm
and strong, and the grass is nice and sweet, so that the poor people make a dry path across
the wet bog to these islands, that they may drive their cows, and goats, and horses to feed
there; and some of these islands are very pretty places, and look so green in the centre of
the black bog. Those bogs which are now such wet, black, nasty places, were once forests of
great trees, as large as any you children ever saw, and pretty bright rivers ran through those
forests, and nice birds sang in the branches, and great stags eat the grass underneath; we
will read about the stag at some other time. This was many hundred years ago, and there were
very few people living then in Ireland, and by degrees, when the trees got very old, they began
to fall down into the rivers and stopped them up, so that the water could not flow on, and
the rivers overflowed all the nice forests, and the trees all fell, so that when some hundred
years passed they were all down, and the branches rotted, and the grass and clay became wet,
like sponge, and the whole of the nice shady forests of great trees became what we call bogs,
and the remains of those pretty branches and leaves, where the birds used to sing so sweetly,
has become turf, like this piece which we have for a lesson; and when men are cutting this
turf out, they often find the great trunks of those trees, that many hundred years ago were
so green and beautiful, quite black and ugly, but still so hard that they can scarcely be cut,
and these old trees are called bog-oak, and the cabinet-maker buys them and makes them into
beautiful chairs, and tables, and presses, and many other things, and they are quite black,
and when polished you little children might see your faces in them. Thus you see, my little
children, that there is nothing which God has made which is not very wonderful and curious,
even this piece of bog-turf, which you would not have heard about if you did not come to the
infant school to learn about so many useful and curious things.

This will perhaps be enough of information for one lesson; and having thus infused it in an
agreeable form into their minds, you may proceed in the manner before mentioned to get it back
from them, in order to impress it more firmly on their understandings; and if this be always
done in the proper manner, they will become as familiar with the subject, and learn it as quickly
as they would the tissue of nonsense contained in the common nursery tales of "Jack and Jill,"
or, "the old woman and her silver penny," whose only usefulness consists in their ability to
amuse, but from which no instruction can be possibly drawn; beside which, they form in the
child's mind the germ of that passion for light reading which afterwards, in many instances,
prevents an application to any thing solid or instructive. Being in themselves the foundation
stone on which a huge and useless mass of fiction is piled in after years, the philosophical
mind will at once perceive the advantage of our system of amusement mingled with instruction,
and perceive that upon its simple basis a noble structure may be afterwards raised; and minds
well stored with useful lore, and capable of discerning evil in whatever shape it presents
itself, and extracting honey from every object, will be farmed, which, when they become numerous,
will cause a glorious change in the moral world, the first germ of which will be traced to
the properly managed gallery lessons of an infant school. Having asked the children if they
are tired, the teacher, if he receives an answer in the negative, may thus proceed:--

Q. What have we been hearing about? A. Turf. Q. What is the use of turf? A. To make fires.
Q. What other use is sometimes made of it? A. To build houses. Q. Where do they build turf
houses? A. In Ireland. Q. Are they not very cold? Q. No; if they are kept mended, they are
not. Q. What do you call people, when they like to sleep in the cold rather than mend their
houses? A. Lazy. Q. Is it bad to be lazy? A. Yes; very bad. Q. What do we call it besides being
lazy? Q. Being idle. Q. Are idle people very happy? A. No; they are always miserable. Q. Right;
and I hope no little children will be ever idle; they should always try to be useful, and do
all they can to help their friends. Now tell me, where is the turf got From? A. From bogs.
Q. What are they called in England? A. Mosses and fens. Q. Are the bogs in England larger than
in Ireland? A. No; the Irish bogs are the largest. Q. What animals live in the bogs? A. Some
sorts of birds. Q. Do men and women live in them? A. No. Q. Why not? A. They are too wet and
soft. Q. What very dangerous places are in some parts of them? A. Bog-holes. Q. What are they?
A. Deep holes full of water. Q. What did I tell you were in some parts of these bogs? A. Nice
green islands. Q. Are they of any use? A. Yes; the people put cows and horses to feed on them.
Q. How do they get across the bog? A. They make a kind of rough road over to them. Q. What
do they cut the turf with? A. A sort of spade with two sides. Q. What is this called? A. A
Slane. Q. When the turf is cut, what do they do next? A. Put it in heaps to dry. Q. What were
those great bogs many hundred years ago? A. Beautiful forests of fine large trees. Q. What
flowed through those forests? A. Nice bright rivers. Q. What sang in the trees? A. Pretty birds.
Q. What eat the grass? A. Fine large stags and deer. Q. How did those beautiful places become
ugly black wet bogs? A. The trees, when they got old, fell into the rivers and stopped them
up. Q. What did this cause? A. The water flowed over the banks. Q. What harm did this do? A.
It made all the nice grass wet and marshy. Q. What more? A. It rotted the roots of the trees.
Q. What happened then? A. They all fell down. Q. In some hundred years, what did all those
forests become? A. Great bogs. Q. Are any of the trunks or bodies of those old trees ever found?
A. Yes; many hundreds are yet far under the bogs. Q. Are they of any use? A. Yes; they are
useful to make chairs, tables, and presses. Q. What colour are they? A. As black as a piece
of coal. Q. When they are polished, do they look nice? A. Yes; so bright you can see your face
in them. Q. What is this wood called? A. Bog-oak. Q. Will you all try to remember this lesson?
A. We will. Teacher. That is right; for little children should always remember the pretty things
that their teacher takes such trouble to tell them.

In places where coal is most burned, a piece of it may be made the medium of a very useful
and instructive lesson, being so familiar an object, their attention will be arrested by its
being made the subject of a lesson; and their curiosity aroused to know every thing about it.
When the teacher asks what is this, the simultaneous shout, of "a piece of coal," will convince
him that he has arrested their attention; and a few questions will exhaust their stock of information
on the subject--they will tell him its uses are to make fires to boil up their dinners, &c.
&c. He may then proceed as follows:--You see, little children, this piece of coal; look at
it attentively; it is black and shining; and you all know will burn very quickly. The places
from whence all coal is brought are called coal mines; the men who dig it out of the ground,
and the ships that carry it over the sea, are called colliers, and the place where the coals
are got is called a colliery. The coal mines are deep holes made very far under the ground,
in order to get at the coal; some of them go under the sea. The colliers live a great part
of their life, in those dark holes, in order to get us coal to make us fires to dress our food,
and very often are killed, either by the falling in of the roof from above, or from a sort
of air called fire-damp, which, if touched with any fire, will blow up like gunpowder, and
will kill any person that is near it; the poor colliers are also often smothered by the bad
air that is in those damp, dark holes; so you see, little children, what dangers they go through,
in order to get us coal, which we could very badly do without.

How very good God is to us; he made this coal under the earth that we might have nice fires
to dress our food, and warm ourselves by in cold weather; we should be very thankful to him
for all his great blessings, and should never do anything to make him angry with us; he is
very sorry when he sees a little child naughty, because he has done every thing to make us
happy, and we never can be so if we are naughty and bad. Bad boys and girls are never happy,
and God does not love them when they are so, and it is very sad to make God angry with us.

Coal is very useful for other things besides making fires to dress our food, and to warm us.
Many things that are very useful could not be made without it. The gas that lights the streets
is made from coal, and when the gas is taken from it what is left is called coke, which makes
a very bright warm fire.

The teacher that properly enters into the spirit of these lessons, may find in the simplest
objects, a never-ending source of pleasure and instruction for his infant pupils. No person
who is not qualified to give proper and really useful gallery lessons is by any means fit for
a teacher of infants; to learn the mere routine of an infant school is not very difficult,
but this will be of no avail if the teacher have not qualifications of a much higher order,
which will enable him continually to pour instruction clothed in simple language, into the
minds of his pupils; simplicity is the life and soul of gallery teaching; without this, the
breath is wasted, and time is spent in vain. To teach infants we must reduce our language to
their tender capacities, and become, in idea and words, one of themselves. Having given the
children your information on a piece of coal, you now proceed to get it back, as follows

Q. Little children, what have we been speaking about? A. About coal. Q. What colour is it?
A. Black. Q. Is it anything besides? A. Yes; shining. Q. What are the places called from whence
coal is got? A. A colliery. Q. What are coal pits? A. Deep holes dug to get at the coal. Q.
Are the colliers in danger down in these deep pits? A. They are. Q. From what? A. From fire-damp?
Q. What is it? A. A sort of air that blows up like gun-powder. Q. From what more are they in
danger? A. The roofs falling in. Q. From what more? A. From bad air which often smothers them.
Q. What is made from coal to light the streets? A. Gas. Q. What is coal called after the gas
has been taken from it? A. Coke. Q. Does coke make a good fire? A. Yes; very bright and strong.
Q. Who made the coal? A. God. Q. What should we be to him for it? A. Very thankful. Q. How
can we shew we are thankful? A. By being very good. Q. Is God glad to see a child naughty?
A. No; he is very sorry. Q. Does he love naughty children? A. No; he does not. Q. Are naughty
children happy? A. No; very unhappy. Thus every lesson may be made not only a vehicle for conveying
instruction, but also of instilling into the infant mind a reverence, a sense of gratitude
and love towards that great Being who called us all into existence; this should be never lost
sight of, in giving the child those primary sentiments, reverence and gratitude towards its
God, you lay a basis on which doctrinal religion may be afterwards built with more advantage.
The child thus early trained in such feelings, conveyed in a manner so admirably adapted to
its tender mind, can scarcely fail, unless it possesses a heart of great natural depravity,
of becoming a good man, and it is thus that infant schools may become a great and lasting blessing
to the country. But where this is overlooked--where the vital principle of the infant system
is rejected, and the mere mechanical parts alone retained, as to any great and lasting benefit,
it will be a complete and unhappy failure. That the grand object of the infant system may be
accomplished, namely, of raising up a generation superior to the last, both in religious, moral,
and intellectual acquirements, an immense caution and great experience in the selection of
teachers is required; till proper teachers are universally provided the infant system will
never be really successful: success does not merely consist in universal adoption and extension,
if it did it would be now really so. But another thing is wanting before it can be called successful,
that is, it must be understood.

None can understand it but thinkers, and deep thinkers, and thinkers in the right direction.
Merely to glance around and gather scraps of knowledge from the various, "ologies" in existence,
which the "march of intellect" has brought into being, and which were unknown to our forefathers;
and then to force them on the young memory at random, may be to teach what was not before taught,
but it is not to display any new method of teaching; any more efficient way of communicating
knowledge. Those who would truly understand the infant system, must think for themselves, and
observe the workings of the young mind, mark the intellectual principles which first develope
themselves, strive to understand the simple laws of mental action; and all this that they may
know how to teach in accordance with them. When this is fairly done, perhaps the whole that
is recorded in this book, may be thought more valuable than it is at present, and be found
a not unworthy subject to devote a whole life to become acquainted with and elucidate both
practically and theoretically. Others then will, perhaps, not be quite so audacious in unjust
plagiarisms. When Columbus had made the egg stand on an end all others could then do it. When
he had discovered America, every one said they might have done it also. All great and important
truths are simple, and when presented to the mind, although unknown before, seem as if they
had been well known, there is such an accurate consistency between the mind and them. This
leads me to suppose that there is simple and useful truths in my volumes, as every one seems
to take them for their own. I can only say that they have cost me many and many an hour of
close observation, and deep and independent thinking. I have devoted my whole life for the
good of others, and have injured myself and family, that I might do so. To rescue little children
from vice and misery, and to have them placed under physical, intellectual, moral, and religious
discipline, has been the delight of my heart, and the object of my life. After this labour,
to have my inventions pirated, my plans made use of in part, and in the rest spoken against;
to have others to reap the fields that I have sown, and at the same time traduce and injure
me; to be thus thrust out as it were from my rightful employment, and left in comparative obscurity
as old age begins to draw on; requires a spirit stronger than that of man, and a heart more
than human, not to feel it, and feel it deeply. I care little for myself, but regret most to
see spurious systems of infant education palmed upon the public by ignorant persons, and thus
deprive them of a great benefit which they might possess.

Facts recorded in Scripture may be given orally as gallery lessons, taking care to exhibit
some picture representing the subject proposed for the lesson--take, for example, the finding
of Moses--which represents the daughter of Pharaoh coming down to bathe with her maidens, and
also the infant Moses in the ark, cradle, or boat, which was made for the purpose. The subject
is then to be propounded to the children as follows, and the teacher is to take care to repeat
it clearly and distinctly in short sentences, and to be careful that all the pupils repeat
it as distinctly after him; by thus means the essence of the story is infused into the minds
of the children, with the addition of their being taught to repeat all the words distinctly
and properly, which will assist their pronunciation very much when they begin to read the lesson
described in another part of this work.

Q. What does this picture represent? A. The finding of Moses. Q. Who came down to wash herself
at the river? A. Pharaoh's daughter. Q. Who was Pharaoh? A. The king of Egypt. Q. What is Egypt?
A. A country in Africa. Q. What is Africa? A. A part of the earth on which we live. Q. Where
did her maidens walk? A. They walked along by the river's side. Q. When Pharaoh's daughter
saw the ark amongst the flags, what did she do? A. She sent her maid to fetch it. Q. And when
she opened it, what did she see. A. She saw the child. Q. What was the ark? A. A sort of boat
made of rushes, such as grow in the river. Q. Would not the water get into this? A. No; it
was kept dry inside by pitch and slime. Q. What were the flags that the ark was among? A. A
sort of plant that grows in rivers. Q. Did the child laugh? Q. What is meant by his sister?
A. The sister of Moses who stood to watch what would become of him. Q. What did she ask to
call a nurse for? A. To nurse the child. Q. What did Pharaoh's daughter say? A. Go. Q. Who
did the maid fetch? Q. What name did she give him? A. She called his name Moses. Q. What for?
A. Because she drew hum out of the water. Q. Look at this picture, what is the girl holding
over Pharaoh's daughter's head? A. A sort of umbrella. Q. What is she holding it up for? A.
To keep away the heat of the sun. Q. Were there slaves in those days? A. Yes. Q. Is the little
girl holding the umbrella meant to represent a slave? A. Yes. Q. Do you know what a slave is?
A. A person who is taken from his home and made to work for nothing and against his wills. 46-52.

Q. Where did they find him? A. In the temple. Q. Sitting in the midst of whom? A. Of the doctors.
Q. What was he doing there? A. Hearing and asking them questions. Q. And they were astonished
at his, what? A. Understanding and answers. Q. What did Jesus' mother say unto him? A. Son,
why hast thou thus dealt with us? Q. What more did she say? A. Thy father and I have sought
thee sorrowing. Q. What did Jesus say unto her? A. He said, how is it that ye sought me? Q.
Did he say anything more? A. Yes; wist ye not that I must be about my father's business. Q.
What is the meaning of wist ye not? A. Know ye not. Q. When Jesus went with them, where did
they come to? A. To Nazareth? Q. What is Nazareth? A. A town in Asia. Q. His mother kept those
sayings, where? A. In her heart. Q. In what did Jesus increase? A. In wisdom and stature. Q.
What do you mean by increasing in stature? A. Growing larger.

Many books of scripture stories have been written for children, but it is far best to select
simple and suitable passages from the sacred volume, and have them properly illustrated by
coloured plates. By this method the children become acquainted with the very letter of scripture.
Written stories often leave very wrong impressions; and the history of David and Goliah has
been given in an infant school, so that it would make an excellent counterpart to Jack, the
giant killer. Surely such things ought never to be! Abundance of historical portions, full
of moral and religious instruction, and such as are calculated from their simplicity and beauty,
to deeply impress the minds of children, can be selected from both Testaments; but the miracles
and parables of our Saviour constitute the richest store.

MORAL TRAINING.

One of the grand aims of the infant system was intended to improve the system of moral training.
The great deficiency in our systems of education, with respect to moral training, is truly
lamentable, from the highest down to the lowest schools in the land. There is room for immense
improvement in this matter, it is hardly possible to visit a school and witness proper efforts
made on this important subject; and never will education produce the glorious effects anticipated
from it, until this subject is legislated for and well understood by the public; and I pray
to God that he will enable me to use arguments in this chapter to prove effective in the minds
of my readers, so as to induce them to co-operate with me to produce another state of things.
In these days there is much said about education; it has at last arrested the attention of
parliament; and through them, the government, and, as it should be, through the government,
the sovereign. Thus is truly encouraging and will act as a stimulus to practical men to develop
a system workable in all its parts, and thus carry out the views and benevolent intentions
of the legislature. Infant education, however, must be the basis, this is beginning at the
right end; if errors are committed here the superstructure is of little avail. The foundation
of moral training must be laid in infancy, it cannot be begun too soon, and is almost always
commenced too late. Mere infants can understand the doing as they would be done by; no child
likes to be deprived of its play-things, his little toys, or any thing which he considers his
property; he will always punish the aggressor if he can, and if he cannot he will cry, or put
himself in a passion, or seek aid from his parents, or any other source where he thinks he
may get justice done to him. Little children have beautiful ideas on this subject, and would
have, if properly trained, correct notions as to the rights of property; to teach them to respect
the property of others, and even to respect themselves, is far preferable to cramming their
memories with good rules in theory; this was the old plan; we have proof that it has not worked
well. The new plan must operate upon the will, it must influence the heart of the child; this
is the Scripture plan, which continually refers to the heart, and not so much to the head.
Every opportunity must be allowed the child to develop its character; to do this it must be
associated with its fellows; if the child is a solitary being, his faculties cannot be drawn
out, it is in society only they can be beneficially acted upon, and it is in the company of
its fellows, that it will shew its true character and disposition; hence the necessity of moral
training. There should be temptations placed within reach of the children, such as fruits,
flowers, and shrubs. The child taught to respect these will set due bounds to his desire, gardens
will cease to be robbed, hedges will not be broken down, turnips and potatoes will not be stolen
to the extent which is but too prevalent in the present day. And I am perfectly convinced that
every pound the country spends in promoting a rightly directed education, will be saved in
the punishment of crime, which in a political point of view, is quite sufficient to induce
the country to call for a properly directed system of national education, which must ultimately
be based on the oracles of eternal truth. If these ends could be obtained by theory, we have
plenty of that in these days. All the writers on education tell us that such and such things
should be done, but most of them that I have read, forget to tell us how to do it. They complain
of the schools already in existence, they complain of the teachers, they complain of the apathy
upon the subject; all of which is very easy. And I regret to say there is but too much cause
for all these complaints; but this will not remedy the evil, we must have new plans for moral
training; teachers must have greater encouragements held out to them; they must take their
proper rank in society, which I contend is next to the clergy; and, until these things take
place, we may go on complaining, as talented men will sooner devote themselves to any profession
rather than to the art of teaching.

We will now endeavour to show how these things are to be remedied, so far as moral training
is applicable to infants from twelve months old to six or seven years. In another part of this
work, we have shewn what may and ought to be done in the play-ground; in this chapter we will
endeavour to shew what may be done to this end in the school-room. In the pages on gallery
teaching we have given specimens of lessons on natural objects and scriptural subjects. Moral
training may receive considerable aid from gallery teaching also; the children must not only
be continually told what they ought to do, but as often what they ought not to do; they must
be told that they are not to fight, and the reasons must be given; they must be told that they
are not to throw stones, and also told the consequences; they must be told not to strike each
other with sticks; they must be told not to play in the dirt; they must be trained in cleanly
and delicate habits; they must not only be told all these things; but they must be watched
in their private hours, they must be encouraged to assist and love each other, and it must
be proved to them that this is the way to advance their own individual happiness. It is self-love
that is the cause of half our miseries. Children cannot be told this too soon; it must be explained
and proved to them that evil, sooner or latter, brings its own punishment, and that goodness
as assuredly brings its own reward. Opportunities will be continually developing themselves
for giving moral training to the children, the judicious teacher will seize these as they occur,
and always make the best of them for the good of the children. A school is a family upon a
large scale; nay, 'tis a commonwealth, and no day will pass without facts shewing themselves,
to enable the teacher to give sound moral instruction. It is true we want a better race of
teachers, but we must have a better sort of schools first; for it is only from these that a
better race of teachers can be supplied. The well trained infants of this generation, will
make the efficient teachers of the next.

We will suppose the children to be seated in the gallery, the doors of the school closed, and
every thing snug and quiet; the teacher must be alone, and there must be nothing to distract
the children's attention. He must then bring out his store of facts which he has noted down
as they occurred; he makes his selection according to circumstances, according to the state
of his own mind; not forgetting the state of mind that the children may be in, and especially
the state of the weather. The following little ditty may then be repeated, the subject being
On Cruelty to Animals.

  I'll never hurt my little dog,
  But stroke and pat his head;
  I love to see him wag his tail,
  I like to see him fed.

  Poor little thing, how very good
  And very useful too;
  And do you know? that he will mind
  What he is bid to do.

  Then I will never hurt my dog,
  Nor ever give him pain,
  But I will always treat him kind,
  And he will love again.

If the children do not appear so bright as the teacher should desire, the before-mentioned
ditty, after it has been repeated, may be sung. But the tune must be such as would be likely
to operate upon the moral feelings; great caution and circumspection is necessary in selecting
proper times for children, and this must be guided by the subject treated of. If the subject
is exhilarating, a lively tune must be selected; if the subject is serious, a corresponding
tune must also be chosen; but if the subject is intended to operate upon the feelings, what
is usually called "a love tune" will be the most desirable. The tune having been sung, and
the feelings operated upon as desired, the teacher may entertain the little pupils with some
one of the numerous stories written about the dog. But before he does this, he must exhaust
so much of the subject as appears in the before-mentioned ditty, by question and answer, similar
to the other lessons mentioned before, something like the following:--

Little children; you have just sung that you would never hurt a little dog, can you tell me
why not? Some of the children will be sure to say, Please, sir, because he has got the sense
of feeling. Teacher. Right, a little dog has got the same sense of feeling as you little children
have, and when it is hurt, how does it shew that it has got the sense of feeling? Children.
Please, sir, it will cry out. Teacher. Yes, it can only tell us it is hurt by doing so. A poor
dog cannot speak, and so we should never hurt it. Has a little fly the sense of feeling? Children.
Yes, sir. Teacher. Right again, and so has every creature that God gave life to, and we should
never give any of them unnecessary pain. In the song that we have just sung, you said you would
stroke and pat the little dog's head. What would you do this for? Children. Please, sir, the
little dog likes it, and he is not afraid of us when we do it, but loves us. Teacher. So he
does, and will always love those that are kind to him; no one but a very bad boy would be unkind
to a dog. You told me, little children, that a poor little dog cries out when it is hurt. Now
when he is pleased, what does he do? Please, sir, he wags his tail, and his eyes look very
bright. Teacher. So he does, which is the same as if he said, How happy I am to be with such
good children who do not beat me as some wicked boys and girls would, but love me and pat my
head, and feed me; for you, little children, you have said you liked to see your little dog
fed, and remember, any of you that have a little dog, or who may have one when you get older
and larger, that it is very cruel not to see it fed every day; the poor dog cannot ask for
its dinner as a little child can, and that is the, very reason why we should always remember
to give it to him. Will you all remember this? Children. Yes, sir, we will. Teacher. You sung
in your song that the dog was very useful, tell me how? Children, Please, sir, he will mind
the house, and bark when any one comes to steal anything. Teacher. Yes, you see how sensible
the little dog is, he knows what a wicked thing it is to be a thief, and so he barks when he
sees one. How else is a little dog useful? Children. Please, sir, they often lead poor blind
people about. Teacher. So they do, and good faithful guides they are. When they see any danger
they will lead their master out of it, and they will bring him safely through the crowded streets;
and when they go home the poor blind man divides his bit of bread with his good dog; and dogs
are useful in other ways, they catch hares and rabbits for their masters, and do many other
things. You said also that the dog minded what he was bid to do, did you not? Children. Yes,
sir, and they will often go back a long way for any thing they are bid, or stay all day minding
their master's coat while he is at work. Teacher. Right, and little children when they will
not do as they are desired are not so good as a little dog, and should take example by one.
Do you remember what you said the dog would do if you treated him kindly? Children. Please,
sir, that he would love us again. Teacher. Right. When we love any thing, a dog, or a horse,
or a little lamb, it will love us again; for you know, little children, that love makes love,
and if you all love one another, and are kind to one another, and never beat or strike each
other with any thing, then you will all be very happy, no little children in the world will
be more happy, or have prettier smiling faces than you will have; for when we look kind and
pleasant we always look pretty, but when we look cross and angry, then we look ugly and frightful.
Remember then, never be cruel to a dog, or any thing else, but think of this lesson, and the
pretty song we sung. Now, little children, shall I tell you a story, a real true story about
a very cruel boy? If the children say, Yes, the following may be related.

A poor little dog was once going along the streets of a town, and a carriage which was coming
up the street very fast, ran over it, and the poor thing was very nearly killed, but it had
still strength to crawl over to a house where a boy was standing at the door, and it began
to whine and looked up in the boy's face, as if to say, you see how much I am hurt, so please
take me in and try and cure me; but the boy was a very cruel boy, and had no pity on the poor
dog, but took a large pot of boiling water and threw it over the poor wounded little dog, so
that it died soon after in very dreadful pain. But the chief governor of the place, that is,
the person whom the king had put there to punish wicked people, heard of what a cruel thing
this bad boy had done. So he brought him up to the market place, and he made a man take off
this cruel boy's clothes, and lash him on the bare back before all the people of the town,
in order that he might know a little of the pain that the poor dog had felt. From this story,
little children, you may learn, that you must not begin to be cruel, if you do, the habit will
grow up with you as it did with this bigger boy, and will never leave you, even when you are men.

Such lessons as these, given at proper times and when the infant mind is in a fit state to
receive them, will do more to prevent what you wish to avoid, than any thing which could be
possibly done at a more advanced age; this is indeed moral training, and when such is given
generally in infant schools, we may look forward to a generation very superior to the present,
in the genuine parts of Christianity, and in every moral and social virtue.

The beneficial results of moral training have been practically shown in every infant school
where the subject has been properly understood and carried out, and numerous anecdotes illustrative
of its beneficial effects might be here introduced, which would convince those who have any
doubt on the subject, of the good effects of exercising kindness and consideration for others,
in opposition to reckless mischief, hardheartedness, and cruelty, vices which render the lower
orders dangerous and formidable; but as a complete collection of such anecdotes would form
in themselves a volume, we will for the present lay before our readers a few taken at random,
to illustrate the subject; they are from the appendix of the first report of the Edinburgh
Infant School Society, the model school of which was organized by the author of this book.

"Two of the children, brothers, about five and four years of age, coming one morning late into
school, were to go to their seats without censure, if they could give an account of what they
had been doing, which should be declared satisfactory by the whole school, who should decide;
they stated separately that they had been contemplating the proceedings of a large caterpillar,
and noticing the different positions of its body as it crossed their path, that it was now
horizontal, and now perpendicular, and presently curved, and finally inclined, when it escaped
into a tree. The master then asked them abruptly, Why did you not kill it? The children stared.
Could you have killed it? asked the teacher. Yes, but that would have been cruel and naughty,
and a sin against God. The little moralists were acquitted by acclamation; having, infants
as they were, manifested a character which, were it universal in the juvenile population, would
in another generation reduce our moral code to a mass of waste paper, in one grand department
of its bulk.

"This anecdote illustrates the good effect of inculcating into the infant mind an abhorrence
of cruelty to animals, which is too often a seed sown in the young heart, which goes on increasing
daily with the growth of the child, until a fearful career of crime is ended by murder, and
its necessary expiation on the scaffold. How many men who have suffered death for murder, could
date their first steps towards it, from the time when in infancy they tortured a fly, or spun
a cock-chaffer.

"The teacher mentioned to the children one day, that he had been occupied about a boy and a
girl who had no father or mother, and whose grandfather and grandmother, who took care of them,
were bed-rid and in great poverty. The boy was seven years of age, too old for the infant school,
but some gentlemen, he said, were exerting themselves to get the boy into one of the hospitals.
Here he purposely stopped to try the sympathies of his audience for the girl. He was not disappointed,
several little voices called out at once, 'Oh! master! What for no the lassie too?' he assured
them the girl was to come to the infant school, and to be boarded there; which intelligence
was received with loud plaudits."

Here we see the seeds of philanthropy sown in the young mind, beginning, even in infancy, to
burst and blossom forth, giving promise in after years of a glorious and abundant harvest.
The germ of love and mercy is in every breast, and cannot fail to be developed, if early called
into action; and by the blessing of Almighty God, who is the great First Cause of all good
results, the day is fast approaching, yea, is now at hand, when the fierce passions, the love
of self, the long catalogues of debasing crimes, which have so long disgraced human nature,
will give way before a golden age of true Christianity; when man will not be arrayed against
his fellow-men, but all will go hand in hand together in the bond of love, seeking to do good,
and to accomplish the purposes for which they were created by an all-wise and all-benevolent God.

The following anecdote illustrates the subject still further:--

"One day, when the children were in the play-ground, four boys occupied the boys' circular
swing, while a stranger gentleman was looking on with the teacher. Conscious of being looked
at, the little fellows were wheeling round with more than usual swiftness and dexterity, when
a little creature of two or three years made a sudden dart forward into their very orbit, and
in an instant must have been knocked down with great force. With a presence of mind and consideration,
and with a mechanical skill,--which to admire most we knew not, one of the boys, about five
years old, used the instant of time in which the singular movement was practicable, threw his
whole body into a horizontal position, and went clear over the infant's head. But this was
not all; in the same well employed instant it occurred to him that that movement was not enough
to save the little intruder, as he himself was to be followed as quick as thought by the next
swinger; for this he provided, by dropping his own feet to the ground, and stopping the whole
machine the instant he had cleared the child's head. The spectator of this admirable specimen
of intellect and good feeling, which was all necessarily the thought and act of a moment, had
his hand instinctively in his pocket for a shilling, but was stopped by the teacher, who disowns
all inferior motives for acts of kindness and justice. The little hero, however, had his reward,
for the incident was related by the teacher in a full school, in the presence of the strangers,
and was received with several rounds of hearty applause."

We will quote another anecdote illustrative of the good effects of exercising the kindly feelings.

J.J. accused H.S. of having eaten up J.J.'s dinner. It was proved by several witnesses that
H.S. not only appropriated the dinner, but used force: the charge being proved to the satisfaction
of the jury (the whole school), the same tribunal were requested by the teacher to decide what
should be the consequence to the convict. One orator rose, and suggested that as H.S. had not
yet eat his own dinner, he ought to give it to J.J. This motion, for the children always welcome
any reasonable substitute for corporal punishment, was carried by acclamation. When one o'clock
came, and the dinner was handed over, "coram publico," to J.J., H.S. was observed by him to
be in tears, and lingering near his own dinner. They were by this time nearly done, but the
teacher was watching the result. The tears were too much for J.J., who went to H.S., threw
his arms round his neck, told him not to cry, but to sit down and take half. This invitation
was of course accepted by H.S., who manifested a great inferiority of character to the other,
and furnished an example of the blindness of the unjust to the justice of retribution, which
they always feel to mere revenge and cruelty. He could not bear to see J.J. even sharing his
dinner, and told him with bitterness that he would tell his mother. "Weel, weel!" said the
generous child, "I'll gin y'd a' back again." Of course the teacher interfered to prevent this
gross injustice, and in the afternoon made their school-fellows perfectly aware of the part
each had acted. It is not easy to render a character like H.S. liberal, but a long course of
such practice, for precept is impotent in such cases, might modify what in after life would
have turned out a selfish, unjust, and unsocial character.

This selfish principle it is the great object of moral training to combat against. We may trace
almost all the misery in the world to it; and until it ceases to exist to the extent which
it now does, little can be done to accomplish any good or great purpose. But lessons like the
above, and received into the infant mind when in a receptive state, will, if proper advantage
be taken of their occurrence, prove in the hands of the Almighty a powerful engine for the
removal of selfishness; and we know of no method so effectual to accomplish this object as
the drawing infants into societies, which is done only in infant schools.

The following anecdote, bearing on the same subject, came under the observation of the author
of this work, very early in his labour for the extension of his system. He gives it here in
the same words as he communicated it to a friend at the time of its occurrence.

A few days since I went to the Boston Street school; the children were in the gallery, and
the moment I entered, they rose to receive me. When the school was over, the children came
around me, as they usually do, saying, When will you come again? and so on. I told them I could
not tell, but that I would come as soon as I could. This answer would not satisfy them, and
I talked to them until near six o'clock in the evening. One little girl, about four years old,
kept looking stedfastly at me the whole time, not letting a single word or gesture escape her
notice. At last I finished my observations, and desired the children to go. The infant in question
immediately took hold of my hand, and said, "We shall never see you any more, you must come
home with me." I replied, "What do you want me to go home for?" The child answered, "I have
nothing to give you, but if you will come home mother will give you some tea." I patted the
child on the head, telling it I could not go. The child went home, as I thought, and I remained
some time talking to one of the ladies of the committee. On walking down the street I saw the
same child crying bitterly, and surrounded by many other children. On inquiring the cause,
I received for answer, "You would not come home to tea." If only one half the invitations that
are given amongst men were given with as much sincerity and disinterestedness as was manifested
by this infant, I am much mistaken if we should not see a very different state of society.

"Moral education," writes Mr. Simpson in his "Philosophy of Education," "embraces both the
animal and moral impulses. It regulates the former, and strengthens the latter, whenever gluttony,
indelicacy, violence, cruelty, greediness, cowardice, pride, insolence, vanity, or any mode
of selfishness shew themselves in the individual under training, one and all must be repressed
with the most watchful solicitude, and the most skilful treatment. Repression may at first
fail to be accomplished, unless by severity; but the instructor sufficiently enlightened in
the faculties, will, in the first practicable moment, drop the coercive system, and awaken
and appeal powerfully to the higher faculties of conscience and benevolence, and to the powers
of reflection: this, done with kindness, in other words, with a marked manifestation of benevolence
itself, will operate with a power, the extent of which in education is yet, to a very limited
extent, estimated. In the very exercise of the superior faculties the inferior are indirectly
acquiring a habit of restraint and regulation; for it is morally impossible to cultivate the
superior faculties without a simultaneous though indirect regulation of the inferior."

It is indeed a melancholy truth, that moral training is yet, to a very limited extent, estimated,
and this is mainly owing to its not being understood by the generality of those selected for
the office of teachers of infants, nor can it be expected that persons of sufficient intellect
and talent to comprehend and carry out this great object, can be procured, until a sufficient
remuneration is held out to them, to make it worth their while to devote their whole energies
to the subject. It is a fatal error to suppose that mere girls, taken perhaps from some laborious
occupation, and whose sum total of education consists of reading and writing, can carry out
views which it requires a philosophical mind, well stored with liberal ideas and general knowledge,
to effect. They may be able to instruct the children in the mere mechanical part of the system;
and as long as they confine themselves to this, they will go on capitally, but no further than
this can they go; and though the children may appear to a casual visitor, to be very nicely
instructed, and very wonderful little creatures, on a closer examination they will be found
mere automatons; and then, without a thought on the subject, the system will be blamed, without
once considering that the most perfect figure of mechanism will not work properly in any hands,
except those that thoroughly understand it.

Enough may have now been said on this subject, and my earnest prayer is, that by God's help,
these remarks may produce beneficial results; and if my endeavours to make the subject of moral
instruction more easily understood, and to demonstrate its importance as clearly as possible
are successful, the results will soon shew me that the hard labour of three-and-thirty years
has not been entirely in vain, and this will be to me a greater reward than all the praise,
distinction, and honour that it is in man's power to confer.

Whenever an infant is detected in any of those animal impulses, to regulate which is the great
end of moral training, a gallery lesson should be immediately given, having a tendency to excite
an abhorrence of the fault on the minds of all the children. An opportunity of this description
should never be let pass. These are the very best times to implant virtuous and moral sentiments
in the minds of the young pupils. These are the golden opportunities of bringing into action
the higher faculties of conscience and benevolence, and the powers of reflection.

If an instance of the too prevalent cruelty of the young to animals be detected, which often
occurs from mere thoughtlessness, it may be prevented from again occurring by a few lessons
like the one which we have given as a specimen. The same means may be taken for crushing the
rudiments of gluttony, violence, pride, deceit, or any other vice. The gallery is the proper
place for these lessons; and after the matter has been thoroughly sifted in the play-ground,
or wherever else it has occurred, the children should then be marched to the gallery, to receive
a proper instruction on the subject. Cruelty, on the part of boys, is too prevalent; it is
energy, enterprise, and high animal spirit, not legislated for on the part of parents and teachers,
which descends to cruelty, first to animals, then to all which has life, that cannot defend
itself. Children soon learn to distinguish those children and animals, who can, and will, resent
cruelty, from those who will not; and therefore, speculate on the results accordingly, and
become self-taught up to this point. A child should never be without a kind and wise guide
at this period; that which in itself descends to evil, for the want of a moral guide, may be
turned to good. The faculties mentioned, cannot be extinguished, but can be regulated. This
is the office of the teacher. Too frequently we try to crush the powers that early want training
and regulating. The same powers which run to vice, may be trained to virtue, but the activities
cannot, and ought not, to be kept too much in abeyance.

Children are not naturally cruel, although they differ much in the propensity to annoy and
reduce animals and each other under their individual control; the passive submit at once, but
the energetic will not; it is then that the active assailant learns an important lesson, which
can only be learned in society, and which to him, is of great importance. The difficulty on
the part of the teacher, is to know when to interfere, and when to let alone. I have often
erred by interference, of this I am quite satisfied; the anxiety to prevent evil, has caused
me to interfere too soon, by not giving time to the pupil fully to develops his act. I hope
others will profit from this; it requires much practice and long study of different temperaments,
in children, to know when to let alone and when to interfere; but certain it is, that the moral
faculties can and must be developed, in any system worthy of the name of education. Other vices
beside cruelty are to be found in children. Moral training applies to these, and none are left
to run their own course. Why should they? What are schools for? but to form the virtuous character--the
being who can command self control--the orderly character, the good citizen, and, the being
who fears and loves God. Ends less than these, cannot be worthy of the efforts of the philanthropist
and the truly religious man.

There is another idea which has long been in my mind, and which I hope some day to see carried
into practice, viz., a Religious Service adapted for children, in our various places of worship.
No accurate observer of the young in churches during divine service, can have failed to witness
the inattention of the numbers of children who are assembled on such occasions. The service
is too long and inappropriate for them, as is also the sermon. It is addressed to adults, and
sometimes the terms used by the preacher, is Greek to half the adults, in agricultural districts.
Men cannot be too simple with the young and illiterate; there is much room for improvement
in these things, and with regard to the young, I can answer for them that, if they are addressed
in proper language, which they can understand, and are supplied with proper religious food
for the understanding, suitable to its state of receptivity, and, if I may say, digestive powers;
they, as a body, will shew us an example which will surprise many. With regard to the Church,
there might be taken from the Prayer Book, a simple service adapted to the purpose. I am certain
I could do it with ease, as I know what is adapted for children, or at least I ought to do.
The next point, all the preachers should be men of peculiar temperament and great simplicity
of manner. I do not care how learned they are; the more learned, the better; but it, need not
be in languages but in spiritual things. There are thousands of passages in the Holy Word which
are adapted, and I think, intended for the purpose, and there are many men now living who are
able to do the thing, and more will be raised up. One thing, however, must not be forgotten,
they must be men advanced in life, not lads. To teach natural things properly to children,
requires more knowledge than the generality of the public suppose. The younger the children
are, the more knowledge it requires on the part of the instructor. But to teach spiritual things
properly to children, men cannot know too much, provided they have the power to simplify that
knowledge and reduce it to practice. An evening service will not do for children, it must be
either in the morning or the middle of the day. So fully am I impressed with the importance
of this idea, that I am determined shortly to take means to carry it out.

       *       *       *       *       *

How does the Deity deal with His creatures, on this momentous question? This is the question
which every thinker--and every religious man, must ask himself; and then, act accordingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

As man comes into the world with a propensity to do that which is forbidden, it has been found
necessary at all times, to enact laws to govern and even to punish him, when he acts contrary
to them; and who will deny the man a just reward who has done any act whereby his fellow-men
have been benefitted? "The hope of reward sweetens labour." If, then, rewards and punishments
are necessary to make men active, and to keep them in order, how can it be expected that children
can be governed without some kind of punishment? I am aware that I am taking the unpopular
side of the question, by becoming an advocate for punishment, but notwithstanding this, I must
say, that I think no school in England has ever been governed without it; and that the many
theories ushered into the world, on this subject, have not been exactly acted upon. And since
this was written I am in a position to state the same with regard to both Scotland and Ireland.
Indeed, it appears to me, that while men continue to be imperfect beings, it is not possible
that either they or their offspring, can be governed without some degree of punishment. I admit
that it should be administered with great prudence, and never employed but as a last resource;
and I am sorry to say, that it has descended to brutality in some schools, which, perhaps,
is one reason why so many persons set their faces against it altogether. I might write as others
have done, by stating that I had brought up a family of my own without ever having struck even
once any of my children, but then this is no argument for the general conducting of a school;
in school, children are spoiled before they come to you, in a family the judicious parent begins
at the beginning, the cases therefore entirely differ.

The first thing that appears to me necessary, is to find out, if possible, the real disposition
and temper of a child, in order to be able to manage it with good effect. I will allow that
it is possible to govern some children without corporal punishment, for I have had some under
my charge whom I never had occasion to punish, to whom a word was quite sufficient, and who,
if I only looked displeased, would burst into tears. But I have had others quite the reverse;
you might talk to them till you were tired, and it would produce no more effect half an hour
afterwards, than if they had not been spoken to at all. Indeed, children's dispositions are
as various as their faces; no two are alike; consequently, what will do for one child will
not do for another; and hence the impropriety of having an invariable mode of punishment. What
should we think of a medical man who was to prescribe for every constitution in the same manner?
The first thing a skilful physician does, is to ascertain the constitution of the patient,
and then he prescribes accordingly; and nothing is more necessary for those who have charge
of little children, than to ascertain their real character. Raving done this, they will be
able, should a child offend, to apply some appropriate antidote.

To begin with rewards: to the monitors I have generally allowed one penny a week each, as I
found much difficulty in procuring monitors; for, whatever honours were attached to the office,
children of five years old could not exactly comprehend them. They could much more easily perceive
the use of a penny; and as a proof how much they valued the penny a week above all the honours
that could be bestowed, I always had a good supply of monitors after this remuneration was
adopted. Before this time, they used to say, "Please, sir, may I sit down? I do not like to
be a monitor." Perhaps I might prevail on some to hold the office a little longer, by explaining
to them what an honourable office it was: but after all, I found that the penny a week spoke
more powerfully than I did, and the children would say to each other, "I like to be a monitor
now, for I had a penny last Saturday; and master says, we are to have a penny every week; don't
you wish you were a monitor?" "Yes, I do; and master says, if I am a good boy, I shall be a
monitor by and bye, and then I shall have a penny." I think they richly deserve it. Some kind
of reward I consider necessary, but what kind of reward, must, of course, rest entirely with
the promoters of the different schools.[A]

[Footnote A: In many of the infant schools I hull visited, I found the spelling and reading
very much neglected, that neither the monitors nor children look at the lessons, but merely
say them by rote; if the monitors are punished for inattention they wish to give up the office,
because there is no reward attached to it; but if there is a reward attached to it of any kind,
the children have sense enough to see that the thing is fairly balanced, for if they are rewarded
for doing their duty they see no injustice in being punished for neglecting it.]

Perhaps nothing would tend more to the order and efficient conducting of an infant school,
than the plan of giving rewards to the monitors. From the part they take in teaching and superintending
others, it seems due to them,--for the labourer is worthy of his hire. If we are to make use
of monitors at all, I am now convinced that they must be rewarded; parents do not like their
children to work for nothing, and when they become useful, they are taken away entirely, unless
rewarded. The training system uses monitors only in that which is purely mechanical; or, to
infuse into the external memory that which is to be learned by rote, singly or simultaneously,
by the pupils, such as chapters out of the Scriptures, catechisms, creeds, poetry, psalms,
hymns, prayers, and commandments, and whatever is (as it is called) to be learned by heart,
but to develope the faculties of the pupils--to really teach religion, morals, intellectuals,
or anything which applies to the interior of the pupils, they are useless.

A most important means of discipline appears in what we term "trial by jury," which is composed
of all the children in the school. It has been already stated that the play-ground is the scene
for the full development of character, and, consequently, the spot where circumstances occur
which demand this peculiar treatment. It should also be particularly observed, that it is next
to prayer in solemnity, and should only be adopted on extraordinary occasions. Any levity manifested
either by the teacher or the pupils will be fatal to the effect. But to illustrate it, I will
state a fact. In the play-ground of an Infant School there was an early dwarf cherry-tree,
which, from its situation, had fruit, while other trees had only flowers. It became, therefore,
an object of general attention, and ordinarily called forth a variety of important observations.
Now it happened that two children, one five years of age, and the other not quite three, entered
the school in the autumn, and on the return of spring, they, having had only a winter's training,
were charmed by this object, and in consequence fell into temptation. Accustomed to watch new
scholars narrowly, I particularly observed them; when I marked the elder one anxiously, intently,
and wishfully gazing on the fruit, and especially on one amazingly large cherry pendent from
a single shoot. While thus absorbed, the younger child was attracted to the spot, and imitated
his example. The former then asked if he did not think it a large one, and the reply was of
course, in the affirmative. Having thus addressed the powers of observation, the next appeal
was to the taste, by the inquiry, "Is not it a nice one?" The answer to which was, "Yes." Then
followed the observation, "It is quite soft," when the young one, being thus excited by the
touch of the other, touched it also. This act, he subsequently repeated, by desire of the elder,
who, having charged him to hold it tight, struck his hand, and thus detached the cherry. I
now withdrew to some distance, and it was evident that the little one was distressed by what
he had done, as he did not eat it, but began to cry faintly, on which the elder took the cherry
out of his hand, and ate it. This increased the crying, when, on approaching, he ran up to
me, saying that the other took my cherry. The little one continuing to cry, the other stated
that he saw him take it; to which I replied, "We will try him by and bye." As soon, therefore,
as the proper time arrived, the bell was rung; prior to which, however, I was apprised of the
loss by several children, and when all were seated in the gallery, I proceeded as follows "Now,
little children, I want you to use all your faculties, to look at me attentively, and to think
of what I am about to say, for I am going to tell you a tale of two little boys. Once on a
time they were amusing themselves with a great many other children in a play-ground, where
there was a great many flowers and some fruit trees. But before I go on, let me ask you is
it right to take the flowers or fruit which belong to others?" to which the general reply was
"No," with the exception of the culprits. I then described their age, stated that one boy was
five years old, and the other three; that the former was looking at one of his master's fine
cherries, which was growing against the wall, and that the latter approached, and looked at
it too; on which several exclaimed, "Please, sir, your big cherry is gone;" which caused an
inspection of each others' countenances. To this, I replied, "I am sorry for it, but let me
finish my tale. Now, children, while they were both looking at the cherry, the older one asked
the younger if it were not large, to which he replied, 'Yes;' he then inquired, whether it
were not nice, when he again answered, 'Yes;' afterwards, be told him, having touched it himself
first, to touch it because it was soft, and the little boy unfortunately did so, on which the
big one pulled his arm, and the cherry came off in his hand." While this was proceeding, the
two delinquents sat very demurely, conscious that they were pourtrayed, though all the rest
were ignorant of the fact. I then said, "Which do you think the worst of these boys?" when
several answered, "The biggest was the worst." On inquiring, "Why?" the reply was, "Because
he told the little one to take it;" while others said, "Because he pulled his arm." I added,
"I have not told you the whole tale yet, but I am glad to see that you know right from wrong,
and presently you will be still better prepared to judge. When the big boy had told the little
one to take the cherry, he then robbed him of it, and immediately betrayed him by telling the
master. Now which do you think was the worst?" When a great number of voices vociferated, "The
big one." I then inquired, if they thought we had such children in our school? the general
reply was 'No;' but the scrutiny among themselves was redoubled. To this I rejoined, "I am
sorry to say such children are now sitting among you in the gallery." At this crisis the little
one burst into tears, on which the children said, "Please, sir, that's one of them, for his
face is so red, and he cries." I answered, "I am sorry it is so," and called the culprit down
with "Come here, my dear, and sit by the side of me until we examine into it." This was followed
by the outcry, "Please, sir, we have found the other, he hangs his head down, and his face
looks so white."

This child was then called down in the same mild manner to sit on the other side of me. I then
told them, that they would find, when they became men and women, that in our courts of law,
witnesses of what was done were called, and as the elder boy had seen the young one take the
cherry, it was necessary and desireable to hear what he had to say. On being desired to stand
up, I therefore said, "Did you see him take the cherry?" To which he promptly replied, "Yes."
The next inquiry was, "What did he do with it?" To this he was silent, on which the little
one, not being able to contain himself, called out, "He took it from me, and ate it." All eyes
were now turned to the big one, and all felt convinced that he was the most guilty, whilst
the confidence of the little one increased by the prospect of having justice done him, as he
previously feared that being accused by the elder one, he should be condemned without ceremony.

Finding that the elder one had no more to say, it only remained to hear the defence of the
young one, who, sensible of having done what was wrong, said, in broken accents, "He told me
to take it,--he hit my hand,--and he ate the cherry." To which it was necessary to give the
admonition, That he never ought to do wrong, though required to do so by others; and that such
a defence would avail him nothing were he a man. Both the children were now exceedingly distressed,
and hence this was the time to appeal to the rest, as to the measure of the punishment that
was due. The general opinion was, that the eldest should be punished, but no one mentioned
that the young one should even have a pat on the hand; the next thing was to appeal to the
higher faculties of the little culprit, who, seeing that he had thus far got off, required
to be softened down in reference to the other, though he had betrayed him, while the best way
of operating on the elder was a display of love on the part of the younger; he was therefore
asked if he would forgive the other, and shake hands with him, which he immediately did, to
the evident delight and satisfaction of all the children, while the countenance of the elder
showed that he felt himself unworthy of the treatment he received. I then inflicted the sentence
which had been pronounced,--two pats of the hand, which the girls asked might be soft ones,
and sent him to his seat, while I concluded the whole with some appropriate exhortations. It
is pleasing to add that the elder proved one of the most useful monitors I ever had.[A]

[Footnote A: This mode of treatment has succeeded in a number of instances, several first-rate
writers on education have tried it, and have found it work well; it is one of the most effective
methods to operate upon the minds of young children that I have been able to discover: I have
tried the plan with older children with great success. Reader! can teachers, who are mere boys
and girls, act thus, in such a case?]

Should any person be disposed to object to such a process, they may be reminded that the Infant
System deals with children as rational creatures, and is designed to prepare them for future
life. I have seen numerous instances of its beneficial effects? these have induced me to pursue
the plan, and in the strongest terms to recommend it to others. In all cases, the matter should
be stated to the children simply, calmly, and slowly, and they will seldom, if ever, come to
a wrong conclusion.

A manual trade, or a business, which requires dexterity can never be learnt from books alone,
or properly understood from mere precepts. All must be acquired by practice, and then the knowledge
of it becomes, as it were, a part of our very selves. The same applies to the precepts of morality.
If they be merely committed to memory by rote, they will often lie there cold and inactive,
and not unfrequently tend even to harden the feelings. But when they are brought out into actual
practice, and made to bear upon the conscience of the culprit, and on the moral feelings of
all the children through him, they are seen in a new and convincing light, and learnt with
a power that will impress them indelibly on the memory. "Nathan said unto David, Thou art the
man." The most effectual teaching of a christian parent is not at the time of the mere infusion
of moral truth into a child's mind, but in the example he gives in his life, and the direction
he gives according to it to his child when he "walks by the way" and when he "sits in the house."
Such should be the teaching aimed at in every infant school. How wise are the dealings of the
creator with us on the subject of reward. What being ever yet did good, who did not feel within
a certain reward? Who felt most of the influence of the Holy Spirit? the passers by,--or the
good Samaritan? Nay! who felt the greatest reward in his own breast, the Samaritan himself,
or the man who fell amongst thieves? I think the Samaritan. Throughout all creation we see
rewards; for assiduity, "the early crow gets the worms; the cautious animal escapes his enemies;
the good man enjoys the most happiness; out of goodness happiness cannot be found;--virtue
brings its own reward;" obedience to the natural laws does the same, so does obedience to the
spiritual laws bring such rewards as my pen cannot describe, but, I doubt not, many have felt
them. The whole system of society appears to me to depend upon this stimulant. Who would wish
to be the heads of the church and take the additional responsibilites and labours attached
to them without reward? Who would accept the office, the weighty office of being Her Majesty's
ministers without reward? I might go on in this strain of reasoning and prove that rewards
are founded in knowledge of human nature; but I am content to skew we have some ground for
them, they are useful, if not essential, in the right management of the young, but, like every
thing else, require to be managed judiciously. It appears to me that the argument to the contrary
would be untenable. I should like to see the man who would invest his capital in railways--electric
telegraphs, steam ships, and in business of any kind, without hope of reward, pooh! it is the
mainspring of human action, the incentive to public service, it rests not in this world but
follows us to the next, "Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord."
Ah! but this refers to men, not to children. What are children but men in embryo? Why be unjust
to them, and just to man. I say rewards are necessary in a sound system of education to little
children; if judiciously selected and properly applied, they will be found incentives to action,
and add greatly to the pleasure of learning. In my other work for the education of older children,
this subject is treated of more at length as applicable to them.

With regard to punishments, they are various, and must be adapted to the disposition of the
child. The only corporal punishment that we inflict is a pat on the hand, which is very of
great service in flagrant cases of misconduct. For instance, I have seen one child bite another's
arm, until it has almost made its teeth meet. I should suppose few persons are prepared to
say, such a child should not be punished for it. I have seen others who, when they first came
to school, would begin to scream as if they were being punished, as soon as their mother brought
them to the door, while the mother continued to threaten the child without ever putting one
threat into execution. The origin of all this noise, has been, perhaps, because the child has
demanded a half-penny, as the condition of coming to school, and the mother probably has not
had one to give him, but has actually been obliged to borrow one in order to induce him to
come in at the school door. Thus the child has come off conqueror, and set it down as a maxim,
that, for the future, he may do just as he pleases with his mother. I have sometimes made my
appearance at this time, to know what all the noise was about, when the mother has entered
into a lamentable tale, telling me what trouble she has had with the child, and that he would
not come to school without having a half-penny each time. But the moment the child has seen
me, all has been as quiet as possible. I have desired him to give me the half-penny, which
he has done directly, I have returned it to the mother, and the child has gone into school,
as quietly as any child could do. I have had others who would throw their victuals into the
dirt, and then lie down in it themselves, and refuse to rise up, crying, "I will go home; I
want to go into the fields; I will have a half-penny." The mother has answered, "Well, my dear,
you shall have a half-penny, if you will stay at school." "No, I want to go and play with Billy
or Tommy;" and the mother at length has taken the churl home again, and thus fed his vanity
and nursed his pride, till he has completely mastered her, so that she has been glad to apply
to the school again, and beg that I would take him in hand.

At another time a girl came with a pillow; she had insisted on having it for a doll; but, so
far from contributing to her happiness, it had a contrary effect. Nevertheless, the parent,
for want of that firmness so necessary in the management of children, had allowed her to bring
it to school, and on her journey she cried all the way, to the amusement of the lookers on.
When I remonstrated with the mother, she replied, "What could I do? she would not come without
it" The child, however, gave it up to me without any trouble, and the over indulgent mother
took it back with her. Numerous have been the instances of a similar kind; and all far the
want of firmness.

The master of an infant school, whenever opportunity occurs, should feel it incumbent upon
him to urge the parents to make a due use of judicious parental authority. This is the very
foundation of all social order, rule, and government, and to relax it is to loosen the very
keystone of society. He ought also perpetually to inculcate obedience to their parents upon
the children, as being one of their first and most important duties. Some have objected to
our schools, that they are calculated to loosen the ties and the authority between parent and
child; but if these precepts are carefully attended to, the result will be precisely the reverse.
It is, however, necessary to state, in the three cases just noticed, that in each, the children
had been previously conquered by me, and young as they were, they knew quite well that, although
such conduct as they exhibited gained the end they had in view with the parent, similar conduct
would not succeed with me. It is little short of cruelty to let any child have its own way
in such matters. They will always try hard to get the tipper hand, not knowing but that such
conduct adds to their own happiness. When once conquered, and proof is afforded that it does
not, then the children are always thankful for the discipline. At all events, I have never
found it otherwise. Many, I may say numerous cases, have occurred of worse kinds than the above,
such as children insisting on bringing something from home, as the bellows, tongs, poker, the
mother's bonnet, father's hat, &c., as the condition of coming to school, which the simple
parent has complied with rather than adopt the required firmness, which is essential in matters
of this kind. More infants know quite well the weak and the strong points of a parent's character,
they all are excellent judges on this subject.

I found it necessary, under such circumstances, to enter into a kind of agreement with the
mother, that she should not interfere in any respect whatever: that on such conditions, and
such only, could the child be admitted; observing, that I should act towards it as if it were
my own, but that it must and should be obedient to me; to which the mother has consented, and
the child has been taken in again; and, strange to say, in less than a fortnight, has been
as good, and has behaved as orderly as any child in the school. But I should deem myself guilty
of duplicity and deceit, were I to say that such children, in all cases could be managed without
corporal punishment, as it appears to me, that this, in moderation, has been the mode of correcting
refractory children, from the earliest ages; for it is expressly said in the Scriptures, "He
that spareth his rod, hateth his son, but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes;" and again,
"He that knoweth his Lord's will, and doeth it not, shall be beaten with many stripes." There
is certainly something very pleasing in the sound, that several hundred infant children may
be well managed, kept in good order, and corrected of their bad habits, without any sort of
punishment. But as I have not been able to attain to that state of perfection in the art of
teaching, I shall lay before the reader what modes of punishment I have adopted, and the success
that attended them.

If punishments be judiciously and justly applied, when offences require them, from the earliest
periods of life, they will soon cease to be wanted. We cannot form a more important association
in the young mind than one between pain and moral evil, and this judicious correction will
effect. It should not be given in anger, or it will have the appearance of revenge; but if
administered calmly and with feelings of sorrow and regret, it will soon exercise a mighty
moral influence. The providence of God applies to us the correction of sickness, pain, and
sorrow, to withdraw us from evil; and thus in His moral government, as well as in His Word,
He commands us to use the rod; but always for good, and never in anger or cruelty. Recent events
have proved to me that there is a mawkish sentimentality but too prevalent on this subject
abroad, which interferes greatly with moral training, the proper freedom of the school-master,
and even with the administration of public justice.

The first offence deserving punishment which I shall notice, is playing the truant; and I trust
I may be permitted to state, that notwithstanding the children are so very young, they frequently,
at first, stay away from the school, unknown to their parents; nor is this to be wondered at,
when we consider how they have been permitted to range the streets, and get acquainted with
other children in similar circumstances. When this is the case, they cannot be brought into
order in a moment; it is a work of time, and requires much patience and perseverance to accomplish
it effectually. It is well known that when we accustom ourselves to particular company, and
form acquaintances, it is no easy matter to give them up; and it is a maxim, that a man is
either better or worse for the company he keeps. Just so it is with children; they form very
early attachments, and frequently with children whose parents will not send them to school,
and care not where they are, so long as they keep out of their way. Hence such children will
persuade others to accompany them, and of course they will be absent from school; but as night
approaches, the child will begin to think of the consequences, and mention it to his companions;
who will instruct him how to deceive both his teachers and his parents, and perhaps bring him
through his trouble. This will give him fresh confidence, and finding himself successful, there
will be little difficulty in persuading him to accompany them a second time. I have had children
absent from school two or three half-days in a week, and sometimes whole days, who have brought
me such rational and plausible excuses as completely to put me off my guard, but who have been
found out by their parents from having stayed out till seven or eight o'clock at night. The
parents have applied at the school to know why they kept the children so late, add have then
in formed me that they have been absent all day. Thus the whole plot has been developed; it
has been found that the children were sent to school at eight o'clock in the morning, and had
their dinners given them to eat at school, but instead of coming they have got into company
with their older companions, who, in many cases, I have found were training them up for every
species of vice. Some of them have been cured of truant playing by corporal punishment, when
all other means I could devise have failed, others by means the most simple, such as causing
the child to hold a broom for a given time.

The most powerful punishment I have yet discovered is to insist on the child sitting still,
without moving hand or foot for a given time, say half an hour at most. Long punishment always
has the tendency to harden the child; he soon gets contented in his situation, and you defeat
your own object.

By keeping a strict eye upon them it will be remarked, they soon begin to form an attachment
with some of their own school-fellows, and ultimately become as fond of their new companions,
their books, and their school, as they were before of their old companions and the streets.
I need scarcely observe, how strong our attachments, formed in early years at school, are,
and I doubt not but many who read this have found a valuable and real friend in a school-fellow
for whom they would do any thing within their power.

There were several children in the school who had contracted some very bad habits, entirely
by their being accustomed to run about the streets; and one boy in particular, only five years
of age, was so frequently absent, and brought such reasonable excuses for his being so, that
it was some time before I detected him. I thought it best to see his mother, and therefore
sent the boy to tell her that I wished her to come. The boy soon returned, saying his mother
was not at home.

The following morning he was absent again, and I sent another boy to know the reason, when
the mother waited on me immediately, and assured me that she had sent the child to school.
I then produced the slate which I kept for that purpose, and informed her how many days and
half-days her child had been absent during the last month, when she again assured me that she
had never kept the child at home for a single half-day, nor had he ever told her that I wanted
to see her; at the same time observing that be must have been decoyed away by some of the children
in the neighbourhood. She regretted that she could not afford to send him to school before,
adding, that the Infant School was a blessed institution, and one, she thought, much wanted
in the neighbourhood. I need scarcely add, that both the father and mother lost no time in
searching for their child, and after several hours, they found him in the nearest fruit-market
with several children, pretty well stored with apples, &c., which they had, no doubt, stolen
from the fruit-baskets continually placed there. They brought him to the school, and informed
me they had given him a good flogging, which I found to be correct from the marks that were
on the child. This, they said, they had no doubt would cure him; but he was not so soon conquered,
for the very next day he was absent again; and after the parents had tried every experiment
they could think of, in vain, they delivered him over to me, telling me I might do what I thought
proper. I tried every means I could devise with as little success, except keeping him at school
after school hours; for I had a great disinclination to convert the school into a prison, as
my object was, if possible, to cause the children to love the school, and I knew I could not
take a more effectual method of causing them to dislike it than by keeping them there against
their will. At last I tried this experiment, but to as little purpose as the others, and I
was about to exclude the child altogether as incorrigible; but unwilling that it should be
said a child five years old had mastered us, I at last hit upon an expedient which had the
desired effect. The plan I adopted was to put him on an elevated situation within sight of
all the children, so secured that he could not hurt himself. I believe it was the force of
ridicule that effected the cure. This I had never tried before, and I must say I was extremely
glad to witness it. I never knew him absent without leave afterwards, and, what is more surprising,
he appeared to be very fond of the school, and became a very good child. Was not this, then,
a brand plucked from the fire?

I have been advised to dismiss twenty such children, rather than retain them by the above means;
but if there be more joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, than over ninety and nine
just persons who need no repentance, ought not such a feeling to be encouraged on earth, particularly
when it can be done by means that are not injurious to the orderly, but, on the contrary, productive
of the best effects? The child just mentioned afterwards went into the National School, with
several others who had been nearly as bad as himself, but they scarcely ever failed to come
and see me when they had a half holiday, and the master of the school told me that not one
of them had ever been absent without leave, and that he had no fault to find with them. I have
further to observe that the moment I perceived a bad effect produced by any method of punishment,
it was relinquished. But I feel it my duty here to caution the reader against the too frequent
practice of many to object. It may cost a man many years to find out what may be desirable
and workable; but to become an objector requires no thought, accordingly the most thoughtless
are generally the greatest objectors.

I believe that there was not a child in the school who would not have been delighted to carry
the broom, if I had called it play; the other children might have laughed as long as they pleased,
for he would have laughed as heartily as any of them, and as soon as he had done, I should
have had a dozen applicants, with "Please, sir, may I? please, sir, may I?" but it was called
a punishment, and hence I had no applications whatever; they all dreaded it as much as they
would a flogging. I am aware that this plan of punishment may appear ridiculous, and perhaps
it would be so to use it for older children; but with such young children I have found it to
answer well, and therefore I have no wish to dispense with it. I would, however, have care
taken not to encourage the children to ridicule each other while undergoing this or any other
punishment, except in extraordinary cases, such as the one I have mentioned; on the contrary,
we should encourage them to sympathize with and comfort a child, as soon as the punishment
is over, and I can truly add, that I do not recollect a single instance when any child has
been undergoing the broom punishment, but some of the others have come, and attempted to beg
him off, with "Please, sir, may he sit down now?" and when asked the reason why they wished
the little delinquent to be forgiven, they have answered, "May be, sir, he will be a good boy."
Their request has been complied with, and the culprit forgiven; and what have I seen follow?
Why, that which has taught me an important lesson, and convinced me that children can operate
on each other's minds, and be the means of producing very often better effects than adult people
can. I have seen them clasp the child round the neck, take him by the hand, lead him about
the play-ground, comfort him in every possible way, wipe his eyes with their pinafores, and
ask him if he was not sorry for what he had done. The answer has been, "Yes;" and they have
flown to me with, "Master, he says he is sorry for it, and that he will not do it again." In
short, they have done that which I could not do--they have so won the child over by kindness,
that it has caused the offender not only to be fond of them, but equally as fond of his master
and the school. To these things I attribute the reclaiming of the children I have mentioned,
and so far from punishment being productive of the "worst effects," I have found it productive
of the best.

The ill effects of expelling children as incorrigible may be seen in the case of Hartley, who
was executed some years back. He confessed before his execution that he had been concerned
in several murders, and upwards of two hundred burglaries; and by the newspaper account we
learn that he was dismissed from school at nine years of age, there being no school master
who would be troubled with him, when, finding himself at liberty, he immediately became a robber.
"Hartley's father" (the account proceeds), "formerly kept the Sir John Falstaff inn at Hull
in Yorkshire; he was put to school in that neighbourhood, but his conduct at school was so
marked with depravity, and so continually did he play the truant, that he was dismissed as
unmanageable. He then, although only nine years of age, began with pilfering and robbing gardens
and orchards, till his friends were obliged to send him to sea. He soon contrived to run away
from the ship in which he had been placed, and having regained the land, pursued his old habits,
and got connected with many of the principal thieves in London, with whom he commenced business
regularly as a house-breaker, which was almost always his line of robbery."

Should not every means have been resorted to with this child before proceeding to the dangerous
mode of expulsion? for it is not the whole who need a physician, but those who are sick; and
I strongly suspect that if judicious punishment had been resorted to, it would have had the
desired effect. I can only say that there never was a child expelled from the infant school
under my care as incorrigible.

In conclusion, I have to observe, that the broom punishment is only for extraordinary occasions,
and I think we are justified in having recourse to any means that are consistent with duty
and humanity, in preference to turning a child out into the wide world.

Of all the difficulties I ever had to encounter, to legislate for rewards and punishments,
gave me the most trouble. How often have I seen one child laugh at that which would make another
child cry. If any department in teaching requires knowledge of character more than another
it is this. Many a fine child's spirits are broken through the ignorance of teachers and parents
in this particular; but for me to lay down invariable rules to manage every child, would be
like a person undertaking to describe a voyage to the moon. Every person's own good sense must
decide for them according to character and circumstances; and as to rewards, the same discrimination
must be used. One child will set much value on a little book, whilst another will destroy it
in a day; and though the book might be worth the sixpence, a half-penny worth of what they
call good stuff would be much more valuable. I have had more business done sometimes for a
plum than for a sixpenny book. It is never necessary to give the child badges of distinction,
and to allow it as many orders and degrees as an Austrian field-marshal. Crosses at the button
holes, and bits of ribbon on the shoulders are unnecessary; they throw an apple of discord
between the young creatures, who have sense enough to see that these things are frequently
given away with a wonderous lack of discrimination, and sometimes to please parents more than
reward merit. A carraway comfit put into the mouth of an infant will do more good than all
the badges of distinction that I have mentioned, as a reward; but with respect to punishment,
more will be said on it in my larger work, when we come to treat of National Education. Each
creation of the most High is truly wonderful, and worthy of our constant study. We may learn
lessons of the truest wisdom from the meanest leaf or insect, if we would regard it as one
of His works. But how much more may be learnt, and what an amount of useful instruction may
be gained, by a study of the finite mind, the highest work in creation. Many have turned their
attention to minerals, plants, and animals, and thus added to our stores of knowledge. If equal
attention had been paid to the young mind, to mark the gradual germination of its intellectual
and moral powers, how much more accurate would our knowledge be of the proper methods of dealing
with it both in instruction, direction, and punishment. Thus to study it has been the aim of
my life, and I have made observations on thousands of children. When this great and living
book is more constantly read, the contents of this humble volume may have a better chance of
being appreciated; and the utter absurdity of many things palmed upon the public for the education
of infants made glaringly manifest.

       *       *       *       *       *

The senses of children having revealed every object in its true light, they next desire to
know its name, and then express their perceptions in words. This you have to gratify, and from
the time you tell them the name of an object, it is the representative of the thing in the
mind of the child; if the object be not present, but you mention the name, this suggests it
to the infant mind. Had this been more frequently thought of by instructors, we should have
found them less eager to make the child acquainted with the names of things of which it has
no knowledge or perception. Sounds and signs which give rise to no idea in the mind, because
the child has never seen or known the things represented, are of no use, and can only burden
the memory. It is, therefore, the object of our system to give the children a knowledge of
things, and then a knowledge of the words which represent those things. These remarks not only
apply to the names of visible things, but more particularly to those which are abstract. If
I would say, shew a child a horse, before you tell it the name of the animal, still more would
I urge it on the teacher to let a child see what love, kindness, religion, &c. are, before
it is told what names to designate those principles by. If our ignorance as to material things
be the result of instructing the children in names, instead of enabling them to become acquainted
with things, so, on the other hand, I believe we may account, in the same way to some extent,
for virtue being so frequently a mere word, an empty sound, amongst men, instead of an active
principle.

Our next endeavour is to teach the children to express their thoughts upon things; and if they
are not checked by injudicious treatment, they will have some on every subject. We first teach
them to express their notions, we then tell them ours, and truth will prevail even in the minds
of children. On this plan, it will operate by its own strength, not by the power of coercion,
which renders even truth disagreeable and repulsive; the children will adopt it from choice
in preference to error, and it will be firmly established in their minds.

It will no doubt be perceived, that for the promotion of the course here recommended, it will
be advisable to connect with our alphabetical and reading lessons, as much information as we
possibly can. By so doing, the tedium of the task to the child will be considerably lessened,
as well as much knowledge attained. The means of doing this in a variety of ways will, no doubt,
suggest themselves to the intelligent teacher; but as an illustration of what we mean, the
following conversational plan may not be useless.

We have twenty-six cards, and each card has on it one letter of the alphabet, and some object
in nature; the first, for instance, has the letter A on the top, and an apple painted on the
bottom. The children are desired to go into the gallery, which is formed of seats, one above
the other, at one end of the school. The master places himself before the children, so that
they can see him, and he them, and being thus situated, proceeds in the following manner:--

A.

Q. Where am I? A. Opposite to us. Q. What is on the right side of me? A. A lady. Q. What is
on the left side of me? A. A chair. Q. What is before me? A. A desk. Q. Who is before me? A.
We, children. Q. What do I hold up in my hand? A. A letter A.Q. What word begins with A? A.
Apple. Q. Which hand do I hold it up with? A. With the right hand. Q. Spell apple.[A] A. A-p-p-l-e.
Q. How is an apple produced? A. It grows on a tree. Q. What part of the tree is in the ground?
A. The root. Q. What is that which comes out of the ground? A. The stem. Q. When the stem grows
up straight, what would you call its position? A. Perpendicular. Q. What are on the stem? A.
Branches. Q. What are on the branches? A. Leaves. Q. Of what colour are they? A. Green. Q.
Is there any thing else beside leaves on the branches? A. Yes, apples. Q. What was it before
it became an apple? A. Blossom. Q. What part of the blossom becomes fruit? A. The inside. Q.
What becomes of the leaves of the blossom? A. They fall off the tree. Q. What was it before
it became a blossom? A. A bud. Q. What caused the buds to become larger, and produce leaves
and blossom? A. The sap. Q. What is sap? A. A juice. Q. How can the sap make the buds larger?
A. It comes out of the root, and goes up the stem. Q. What next? A. Through the branches into
the buds. Q. What do the buds produce? A. Some buds produce leaves, some blossoms, and some
a shoot. Q. What do you mean by a shoot? A. A young branch, which is green at first, but becomes
hard by age. Q. What part becomes hard first? A. The bottom.

[Footnote A: It is not supposed that all or many of the children will be able to spell this
or many of the subsequent words, or give such answers as we have put down. But some among the
older or more acute of them will soon be able to do so, and thus become instructors to the
rest. It may be proper to mention also that the information in Natural History, &c. &c., displayed
in some of the answers, is the result of the instructions in Natural History which the children
simultaneously receive, and which is spoken of in a subsequent chapter. Mr. Golt's simple arrangement
of the Alphabet I much approve of, and no doubt it will come into general use.]

B.

Q. What is this? A. The letter B--the first letter in baker, butter, bacon, brewer, button,
bell, &c., &e. [The teacher can take any of these names he pleases, for instance, the first:]
Children, let me hear you spell baker. A. B-a-k-e-r. Q. What is a baker? A. A man who makes
bread. Q. What is bread made of? A. It is made of flour, water, yeast, and a little salt. Q.
What is flour made of? A. Wheat. Q. How is it made? A. Ground to powder in a mill. Q. What
makes the mill go round? A. The wind, if it is a windmill. Q. Are there any other kinds of
mills? A. Yes; mills that go by water, mills that are drawn round by horses, and mills that
go by steam. Q. When the flour and water and yeast are mixed together, what does the baker
do? A. Bake them in an oven. Q. What is the use of bread? A. For children to eat. Q. Who causes
the corn to grow? A. Almighty God.

C.

Q. What is this? A. It is letter C, the first letter in cow, c-o-w, and cat, &c. Q. What is
the use of the cow? A. The cow gives us milk to put into the tea. Q. Is milk used for any other
purpose besides putting it into tea? A. Yes; it is used to put into puddings, and for many
other things. Q. Name some of the other things? A. It is used to make butter and cheese. Q.
What part of it is made into butter? A. The cream which swims at the top of the milk. Q. How
is it made into butter? A. It is put into a thing called a churn, in the shape of a barrel.
Q. What is done next? A. The churn is turned round by means of a handle, and the motion turns
the cream into butter. Q. What is the use of butter? A. To put on bread, and to put into pie-crust,
and many other nice things. Q. Of what colour is butter? A. It is generally yellow. A. Are
there any other things made of milk? A. Yes, many things; but the principal one is cheese.
Q. How is cheese made? A. The milk is turned into curds and whey, which is done by putting
a liquid into it called rennet. Q. What part of the curd and whey is made into cheese? A. The
curd, which is put into a press; and when it has been in the press a few days it becomes cheese.
Q. Is the flesh of the cow useful? A. Yes; it is eaten, and is called beef; and the flesh of
the young calf is called veal. Q. Is the skin of the cow or calf of any use? A. Yes; the skin
of the cow or calf of any use? A. Yes; the skin of the cow is manufactured into leather for
the soles of shoes. Q. What is made with the calf skin? A. The top of the shoe, which is called
the upper-leather. Q. Are there any other parts of the cow that are useful? A. Yes; the horns,
which are made into combs, handles of knives, forks, and other things. Q. What is made of the
hoofs that come off the cow's feet? A. Glue, to join boards together. Q. Who made the cow?
A. Almighty God.

D.

Q. What is this? A. Letter D, the first letter it dog, dove, draper, &c. Q. What is the use
of the dog, A. To guard the house and keep thieves away. Q. How can a dog guard the house and
keep thieves away? A. By barking to wake the persons who live in the house. Q. Is the dog of
any other use? A. Yes; to draw under a truck. D. Does he do as his master bids him? A. Yes;
and knows his master from any other person. Q. Is the dog a faithful animal? A. Yes, very faithful;
he has been known to die of grief for the loss of his master. Q. Can you mention an instance
of the dog's faithfulness? A. Yes; a dog waited at the gates of the Fleet prison for hours
every day for nearly two years, because his master was confined in the prison. Q. Can you mention
another instance of the dog's faithfulness? A. Yes; a dog lay down on his master's grave in
a churchyard in London for many weeks. Q. How did the dog get food? A. The people who lived
near noticed him, and brought him victuals. Q. Did the people do any thing besides giving him
victuals A. Yes; they made a house for him for fear he should die with wet and cold. Q. How
long did he stay there? A. Until the people took him away, because he howled dreadfully when
the organ played on Sundays. Q. Is it right to beat a dog? A. No; it is very wrong to use any
animal ill, because we do not like to be beaten ourselves. Q. Did Almighty God make the dog?
A. Yes; and every thing else that has life.

E.

Q. What letter is this? A. E, the first letter in egg. Q. What is the use of an egg? A. It
is useful for many purposes; to put into puddings, and to eat by itself. Q. Should country
children keep an egg if they find it in the hedge? A. No, it is thieving; they should find
out the owner and take it home. Q. Do children ever throw stones at the fowls? A. Yes; but
they are mischievous children, and perhaps do not go to school. Q. What ought children to learn
by going to school? A. To be kind and good to every body, and every thing that has life.

F.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter F, the first letter in frying-pan, father, &c. Q. Let me
hear you spell frying-pan. A. F-r-y-i-n-g-p-a-n. Q. What is the use of the frying-pan? A. To
fry meat and pan-cakes. Q. Spell me the names of the different kinds of meat. A. B-e-e-f, p-o-r-k,
m-u-t-t-o-n, l-a-m-b, h-a-m, &c. Q. Of what shape are frying-pans? A. Some circular, and some
are like an ellipsis.[A] Q. Are there any other utensils into which meat is put that are circular?
A. Yes, please, sir, my mother has some circular plates; and, please, sir, my mother has some
elliptical dishes. Q. Any thing besides? A. Yes, please, sir, my mother has a circular table;
and, please, sir, my mother has a rectangular one, and it is made of deal.

[Footnote A: It may possibly strike some of my readers as strange that a geometrical question
should be put in a conversation on the alphabet, but it should be remembered that, according
to the Infant School system, language is not taught exclusively, but in connection with number
and form;--questions like the above, therefore are calculated to excite their memories, and
induce an application of their geometrical knowledge.]

G.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter G, the first letter in goat, good, girl, &c. Q. Spell goat.
A. G-o-a-t. Q. What is the use of the goat'? A. In some countries people drink the goat's milk;
and the skin is useful to make the upper-leather of shoes. Q. Are goats fond of going into
the valleys and low places? A. No; they are fond of going up hills and high places. Q. If a
goat is coming down a hill which has only one narrow path merely wide enough for one goat to
walk on without falling down, and another goat is coming up the same path, what do they do?
A. The goat that is coming up lies down and lets the other goat walk over him. Q. Why does
not one of the goats turn round and go back again? A. Because there would not be room, and
the one which should try to turn round would fall down and be killed.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter H, the first letter in horse, house, &c. Q. What is the use
of the horse? A. To draw carts, coaches, stages, waggons, fire-engines, &c. Q. Spell horse,
and cart, and coach. A. H-o-r-s-e, c-a-r-t, c-o-a-c-h. Q. What is the difference between a
cart and coach? A. A cart has two wheels, and a coach has four. Q. Tell me some other difference.
A. The horses in a cart go before each other, but the horses in a coach go side by side. Q.
What is the use of a fire-engine? A. To put the fire out when the house is on fire. Q. Is it
right for children to play with the fire? A. No, very wrong; as many children are burnt to
death, and many houses burnt down from it. Q. Should the horse be cruelly used? A. No; he should
be kindly treated, as he is the most useful animal we have. Q. Who created him? A. Almighty God.

I.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter I, the first letter in iron, idleness, &c. Q. Spell iron.
A. I-r-o-n. Q. What is the use of an iron? A. To iron the clothes after they are washed, and
to make them smooth. Q. How do they iron the clothes? A. Make the iron hot, and then work it
backwards and forwards on the clothes. Q. Should little children come with clean clothes to
school? A. Yes; and clean hands and faces too. Q. Is not iron used for other purposes? A. Oh,
yes; for a great many things, as knives, forks, &c.

J.

Q. What is this letter? A. J, the first letter in jug, John, &c. Q. What is the use of the
jug? A. To hold water, or beer, or any other liquid. Q. What is a jug made of? A. Of clay,
which is worked round into the shape of a jug, and then burnt, and that hardens it. Q. Should
children be careful when they are carrying a jug? A. Yes; or else they will let it fall and
break it. Q. Then it is necessary for children to be careful? A. Yes, every body should be careful.

K.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter K, the first letter in kite, &c. Q. What is the use of the
kite? A. For little children to fly. Please, sir, my big brother has got a kite. Q. What does
your brother do with his kite? A. Please, sir, he goes into the fields when he has got time,
and flies it. Q. How does he fly it? A. Please, sir, he has got a long string, which he fixes
to another called a loop, and then he unwinds the string, and gets some boy to hold it up.
Q. What then? A. Please, sir, then he runs against the wind, and the kite goes up. Q. What
is the use of the tail of the kite? A. Please, sir, it will not fly without a tail. Q. Why
not? A. Please, sir, it goes round and round without a tail, and comes down. Q. Then what do
you suppose is the use of the tail? Please, sir, I don't know. Another child will probably
supply the answer. Please, sir, to balance it.

L.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter L, the first letter in lion, &c. Q. Spell lion. A. L-i-o-n.
Q. What is the size of a full grown lion? A. A full grown lion stands four feet and a half
high, and is eight feet long. Q. How high do you stand? A. Please, sir, some of us stand two
feet, and none of us above three. Q. Has the lion any particular character among beasts? A.
Yes, he is called the king of beasts on account of his great strength. Q. When he seizes his
prey, how far can he leap? A. To the distance of twenty feet. Q. Describe some other particulars
concerning the lion. A. The lion has a shaggy mane, which the lioness has not. Q. What other
particulars? A. The lion's roar is so loud that other animals run away when they hear it. Q.
Where are lions found? A. In most hot countries: the largest are found in Asia and Africa.

M.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter M, the first letter in Monday, mouse, &c. Q. What is the
use of the mouse? A. To make the servants diligent and put the things out of the way. Q. How
can mice make servants diligent? A. If people do not put their candles in a proper place the
mice will gnaw them. Q. Are mice of any other service? A. Please, sir, if the mice did not
make a smell, some people would never clean their cupboards out.[A]

[Footnote A: This answer was given by a child four years old; and immediately afterwards another
child called out, "Please, sir, if it were not for bugs, some people would not clean their
bedsteads."]

N.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter N, the first letter in nut, &c. Q. What is a nut? A. A thing
that is hard, and it grows on a tree. Q. What shape is it? A. Something in the shape of a marble.
Q. How can it be eaten, if it is like a marble? A. Please, air, it is the kernel that we eat.
Q. flow are nuts produced? A. They grow on trees.

O.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter O, the first letter in orange. Q. Of what colour is an orange?
A. An orange is green at first, but afterwards becomes of a colour called orange-red. Q. Do
they grow in the ground like potatoes? A. No, they grow on trees like apples. Q. Can you tell
me anything in the shape of an orange? A. Yes, the earth on which we live is nearly of that
shape. Q. On what part of the earth do we live? A. The surface. Q. What do you mean by the
surface? A. The outside. Q. Who formed the earth, and preserves it in its proper motions? A.
Almighty God.

P.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter P, the first letter in pig, plum-pudding, &c. Q. What is
the use of the pig? A. Its flesh is eaten, and is called pork. Q. What is the use of the hair
or bristles? A. To make brushes or brooms. Q. What is the use of a brush? A. Some brushes are
to brush the clothes, and others to brush the dirt out of the corners of the room. Q. Does
a good servant ever leave the dirt in the corners? A. No, never; a good servant or any clean
little girl would be ashamed of it.

Q.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter Q, the first letter in quill, &c. Q. How are quills produced?
A. From the wings of geese and other large birds. Q. What is the use of the quill? A. To form
into pens and many other things. Q. What is the use of the pen? A. To dip into ink and write
with it. Q. What do you write upon? A. Paper. Q. What is paper made of? A. Rags.

R.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter R, the first letter in rabbit, &c. Q. What is the use of
the rabbit? A. The flesh of the rabbit is eaten, and is very nice. Q. What does the rabbit
eat? A. Corn, grass, cabbage-leaves, and many different herbs. Q. What is the use of the skin?
A. To make hats, and to trim boys' caps. Q. Are they very numerous? A. They are to be found
in almost all countries.

S.

Q. What is this? A. Letter S, the first letter in shoe, &c. Q. What is the use of shoes? A.
To keep the feet warm and dry. Q. Should children walk in the mud or in the kennel? A. No,
because that would spoil the shoes, and wear them out too soon. Q. And why should little children
be careful not to wear them out any more than they can help? A. Because our parents must work
harder to buy us more.

T.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter T, the first letter in tea-kettle. Q. What are tea-kettles
made of? A. Some are made of tin, and some of copper, and some of iron. Q. Why are they not
made of wood? A. Because the wood would burn. Q. What thing is that at the top? A. The handle.
Q. What is underneath the handle? A. The lid. Q. What is in the front of it? A. The spout.
Q. What is the use of the spout? A. For the water to come out. Q. What is the use of the handle?
A. To take hold of. Q. Why do they not take hold of the spout? A. Because it is the wrong way.

U.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter U, the first letter in umbrella, &c. Q. Is letter U a vowel
or consonant? A. A vowel. Q. What is the use of the umbrella? A. To keep the rain off any body.
Q. What are umbrellas made of? A. Some of silk and some of cotton. Q. Which are the best? A.
Those that are made of silk. Q. Is there any thing else in an umbrella? A. Yes; whalebone.
Q. Where does whalebone come from? A. Out of a large fish called a whale. Q. Who made the whale?
A. Almighty God.

V.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter V, the first letter in vine, &c. Q. What is a vine? A. A
thing that grows against the wall and produces grapes. Q. Why does it not grow like another
tree, and support its own weight? A. Because it is not strong enough. Q. Then it cannot grow
and become fruitful in this country without man's assistance? A. No; and, please, sir, we cannot
grow and become fruitful without the assistance of Almighty God.[A]

[Footnote A: This answer was given by a child five-years of age.]

W.

Q. What letter is this? A. It is Letter W, the first letter in wheel. Q. Spell wheel. A. W-h-e-e-l.
Q. What is the use of wheels? A. To make it easier for horses to draw. Q. How do you know that?
A. Please, sir, I had a little cart full of stones, and the wheel came off; and, please, sir,
I found it much harder to draw. Q. Then if it was not for wheels, the horses could not draw
so great a weight? A. No, and, please, sir, people could not go into the country so quick as
they do. Q. What trade do they call the persons that make wheels? A. Wheel-wrights.

X.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter X, the first letter in Xenophon, a man's name. Q. What was
the particular character of Xenophon? A. He was very courageous. Q. What does courageous mean?
A. To be afraid to do harm, but not to be afraid to do good, or anything that is right. Q.
What is the greatest courage? A. To conquer our own bad passions and bad inclinations. Q. Is
he a courageous man that can conquer his bad passions? A. Yes; because they are the most difficult
to conquer.

Y.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter Y, the first letter in yoke, &c. Q. Is it a vowel or consonant?
A. When it begins a word it is called a consonant, but if not, a vowel. Q. What is a yoke?
A. Please, sir, what the milk people carry the milk pails on. Q. What is the use of the yoke?
A. To enable the people to carry the milk easier.

Z.

Q. What letter is this? A. Letter Z, the first letter in Zealander. Q. What is a Zealander?
A. A man that lives on an island in the Southern Ocean, called Zealand. Q. How do they live?
A. Principally by hunting and fishing. Q. What is hunting? A. Following animals to catch them.
Q. Who made all the animals? A. Almighty God.

       *       *       *       *       *

The method above described is adapted to the large room, where the children may be taught all
together; but it is necessary to change the scene even in this; for however novel and pleasing
a thing may be at first, if it be not managed with prudence it will soon lose its effect. It
is here to be observed, that the mode of teaching described, is not practised every day, but
only twice or thrice a week. The children will take care that the teacher does not altogether
forget to teach them in any way that they have been accustomed to. After letting the above
plan lie by for a day or two, some of the children will come to the teacher, and say, "Please,
sir, may we say the picture alphabet up in the gallery?" If the other children overhear the
question, it will go through the school like lightning: "Oh yes--yes--yes, sir, if you please,
do let us say the letters in the gallery." Thus a desire is created in the children's minds,
and it is then especially that they may be taught with good effect.

Another plan which we adopt, is in practice almost every day; but it is better adapted to what
is called the class-room: we have the alphabet printed in large letters, both in Roman and
Italic characters, on one sheet of paper: this paper is pasted on a board, or on pasteboard,
and placed against the wall; the whole class then stand around it, but instead of one of the
monitors pointing to the letters, the master or mistress does it; so that the children not
only obtain instruction from each other, but every child has a lesson from the master or mistress
twice every day.

Before they go to the reading lessons, they have the sounds of all the words in spelling: thus
the sound of a--ball, call, fall, wall; then the reading-lesson is full of words of the same
sound. In like manner they proceed with other letters, as i--the sound of which they learn
from such words as five, drive, strive, until, by a series of lessons, they become acquainted
with all the sounds; and are able to read any common book.

I have observed in some instances the most deplorable laxity in this particular. Cases have
occurred in which children have been for two years at school, and yet scarcely knew the whole
alphabet; and I have known others to be four years in an infant school, without being able
to read. I hesitate not to say that the fault rests exclusively with the teachers, who, finding
this department of their work more troublesome than others which are attractive to visitors,
have sometimes neglected it, and even thrown it entirely aside, affirming that reading is not
a part of the infant system at all! Such a declaration is, however, only to be accounted for
from the most lamentable ignorance, preverseness, or both. Had it been true, we should not
have had a single infant school in Scotland, and throughout that country the children read
delightfully.

The great importance of full instruction in reading will be apparent from the following considerations.

1. If the parents do not find the children learn to read, they will discontinue sending them.
This they consider essential, and nothing else will be deemed by them an adequate substitute.

2. Children cannot make desirable progress in other schools which they may enter, unless they
obtain an ability to read at least simple lessons.

3. Neglect in this respect impedes the progress of the infant system. Such an obstacle ought
not to exist, and should at once be removed.

4. In manufacturing districts children go to work very soon; and if they are not able to read
before, there is reason to fear they will not afterwards acquire the power; but if they have
this, Sunday schools may supply other deficiencies.

5. Want of ability to read prevents, of course, a knowledge of the Word of God.

To prevent this evil, I have arranged a series, denominated "Developing Lessons," the great
object of which is to induce children to think and reflect on what they see. They are thus
formed: at the top is a coloured picture, or series of coloured pictures of insects, quadrupeds,
and general objects. For instance, there is one containing the poplar, hawk-moth, and wasp.
The lesson is as follows: "The wasp can sting, and fly as well as the moth, which does not
sting. I hope no wasp will sting me; he is small, but the hawk-moth is large. The moth eats
leaves, but the wasp loves sweet things, and makes a round nest. If boys take the nest they
may be stung: the fish like the wasp-grubs." On this, questions are proposed: Which stings?
Which is small and which large? Which eats leaves? Which makes a round nest? &c. &c.

To take another instance. There is a figure of an Italian, to which is appended the following:
"The Italian has got a flask of oil and a fish in his hand, and something else in his hand
which the little child who reads this must find out. Any child can tell who makes use of the
sense of seeing. In Italy they make a good deal of wine; big grapes grow there that they make
it with. Italians can sing very well, and so can little children when they are taught." Questions
are likewise proposed on this, as before.

Of these lessons, however, there is a great variety. All schools should possess them: they
will effectually prevent the evil alluded to, by checking the apathy of children in learning
to read, and calling the teacher's powers into full exercise. They are equally adapted to spelling
and reading.

I will give several specimens of reading lessons in natural history, each of which has a large,
well-engraved and coloured plate at the top, copied from nature.

THE EAGLE.

How glad some poor children would be if they could read about the eagle. He is a big strong
bird, and has such great wings, and such long sharp claws, that he can dig them into the lamb,
hare, rabbit, and other animals, and thus fly away with them to feed his young ones, and to
eat them himself. Eagles make such a large nest on the side of some high rock, where nobody
can get at it. There used to be eagles in Wales, and there are some now in Scotland, but very
few in England, for they do not like to be where there are many people. The Almighty gave man
dominion over the birds of the air, as well as over the other animals, and as he gave man power
to think, if the eagles become troublesome, men catch them, though they can fly so high; and
as the eagle knows this, he likes to keep out of our way, and go into parts of the world where
there are not so many people. There are many sorts of eagles: the black eagle, the sea eagle,
the bald eagle, and others. They have all strong bills bent down in front, and strong claws.
This bird is mentioned in the Bible.

Questions are proposed after this is read, and thus the examination proceeds:--Q. What is that?
A. An eagle. Q. What sort of a bird is he? A. He is big and strong. Q. What are those? A. His
feathers. Q. What else are they called? A. His plumage. Q. Is the eagle a small bird? A. No,
very large. Q. Are his claws long and sharp? A. Yes. Q. What animals could he carry away? A.
A lamb, a hare, a rabbit, or other small animals. Q. What does he do with those? A. Feed his
young ones. Q. Where does the eagle make his nest? A. On the side of some rock. Q. Why does
he make it there? A. That no one may get at it. Q. Used there to be eagles in Wales? A. Yes.
Q. Where are there a few still? A. In England, Scotland, and Ireland. Q. Why are they not as
plentiful as they were? A. Because they do not like to be where many men live. Q. Did the Almighty
give man dominion over the birds of the air? A. Yes. Q. What other power did he give man? A.
Power to think. Q. As men can think, when the eagles became troublesome, what did they do?
A. They caught them. Q. And what did the eagles that were not caught do? A. They went to places
where men were not so plenty. Q. Are, there many different kinds of eagles? A. Yes. Q. Name
some. A. The black eagle, the bald eagle, the sea eagle, and others.

THE VULTURE.

The vulture is like the eagle in size, and some of its habits; but it is so very different
from it in many ways, that there is little danger of confusing the two together: the greatest
distinction between them is, that the head of the vulture is either quite naked, or covered
only with a short down, while the eagle's is well feathered. This is the chief difference in
appearance, but in their habits there is a much greater. Instead of flying over hills and valleys
in pursuit of living game, the vultures only search for dead carcasses, which they prefer,
although they may have been a long time dead, and therefore very bad, and smelling very offensively.
They generally live in very warm countries, and are useful in clearing away those dead carcasses
which, but for them, would cause many dreadful diseases. In some countries, indeed, on account
of this, the inhabitants will not allow any one to injure them, and they are called for this
reason scavengers, which means that they do the business for which scavengers are employed.
Vultures are very greedy and ravenous; they will often eat so much that they are not able to
move or fly, but sit quite stupidly and insensible. One of them will often, at a single meal,
devour the entire body of an albatross (bones and all), which is a bird nearly as large as
the vulture itself. They will smell a dead carcass at a very great distance, and will soon
surround and devour it.

Vultures lay two eggs at a time and only once a year: they build their nests on the same kind
of places as eagles do, so that it is very hard to find them.

What does the vulture resemble the eagle in? A. In size and in some of its habits. Q. In what
does it differ from the eagle? A. In having a neck and head either naked or covered with short
down. Q. What is the difference in the manner in which they feed? A. The eagle seeks its food
over hill and valley, and lives entirely on prey which he takes alive, while the vulture seeks
out dead and putrid carcasses. Q. For what reason do you suppose is the vulture's neck not
covered with feathers as the eagle's is? A. If they had feathers on their necks, like eagles
and hawks, they would soon become clotted with blood. Q. Why would this happen? A. Because
they are continually plunging their necks into decayed flesh and bloody carcasses. Q. How do
vultures sit? A. In a dull, mopeing manner. Q. Where do they generally sit? A. On tall dead
trees. Q. Do they continue thus long? A. Yes, for several hours. Q. What is the cause of their
thus sitting so dull and inactive? A. The great quantity of food they have eaten. Q. Is there
any description of vulture forming an exception to the general character of those birds? A.
Yes, that particular kind called the snake eater. Q. Where is this bird a native of? A. Of
Africa. Q. Why is it called the snake eater? A. On account of its singular manner of destroying
serpents, on which it feeds. Q. Describe the manner in which this bird kills its prey. A. He
waits until the serpent raises its head, and then strikes him with his wing, and repeats the
blow until the serpent is killed. Q. What do the natives of Asia and Africa call the vulture?
A. The scavenger. Q. Why? A. Because they are so useful in eating dead carcasses. Q. How is
this useful? A. It clears the ground of them; otherwise, in those warm places, they would be
the cause of much disease. Q. What does this shew us? A. That the good God has created nothing
without its use. Q. What is the largest bird of the vulture kind? A. The great condor of South
America. Q. What does its wing often measure from tip to tip? A. Twelve feet when spread out.
Q. How do the natives of South America often catch the vulture? A. The dead carcass of a cow
or horse is set for a bait, on which they feed so ravenously that they become stupid, and are
easily taken.

THE CROCODILE.

I hope you will not put your dirty hands on this picture of the crocodile. The live ones have
hard scales on their backs, and such a many teeth, that they could bite a man's leg off; but
there are none in our land, only young ones that sailors bring home with them. The crocodile
can run fast; those are best off who are out of his way. He lives by the water; he goes much
in it; and he can swim well. Young ones come out of eggs, which the old ones lay in the sand.
Some beasts eat the eggs, or else there would be too many crocodiles. The crocodile can run
fast if he runs straight, and those who wish to get out of his way run zigzag, and he takes
some time to turn; the poor black men know this, and can get out of his way; but some of them
can fight and kill him on the land or in the water. I think the crocodile is mentioned in Scripture.
Ask your teacher what Scripture means. When you learn geography you will know where many of
the places are that are mentioned in the Bible, and you will see where the river Nile is. There
are such a many crocodiles on the banks of that river that the people are afraid to go alone.
What a many wonderful animals our great Creator has made! How humble and thankful we should
be to see so many great wonders!

Q. What have crocodiles on their backs? A. Hard scales. Q. Have they many teeth? A. Yes, a
great many. Q. Could they bite off a man's leg? A. They could. Q. Are there any in our country?
A. None wild, but a few that sailors bring in ships. Q. Can the crocodile run fast? A. Yes.
Q. Where does he live? A. In the water. Q. What do their young ones come out of? A. Out of
eggs, which the old one lays in the sand. Q. How do people run that wish to get out of the
crocodile's way? A. Zigzag, like the waved line in our lesson. Q. What do some men do? A. Fight
and kill them in the water. Q. Where do most of those animals live? A. In the river Nile. Q.
Where is this river? A. In Egypt.

The spelling lessons contain words capable of explanation, such as white, black, round, square;
others are classed as fleet, ship, brig, sloop, &c.; and others are in contrast, as hot, cold,
dark, light, wet, dry, &c.

In this department we use the tablet placed beneath the arithmeticon, the invention and improvement
of which are described in the volume entitled "Early Discipline Illustrated, or the Infant
System Successful and Progressing." A clear idea of the whole apparatus is given by the wood-cut
on the next page, and it ought certainly to be found in every infant school. The sense of sight
is then brought into full action to aid the mind, and that with results which would not easily
be conceived. We shall take another opportunity of explaining the use of the upper part of
the apparatus, the lower demanding our present attention.

To use the tablet, let the followings things be observed. It is supposed the children know
well there are twenty-six letters in the alphabet; that twenty are called consonants, and that
six are vowels. We take first one perpendicular row of letters in the figure. Now point to
D, and say, What is that'? and the answer will be, D. Ask, Is it a vowel or consonant, and
they will reply, A consonant; but ask, Why do you know it is D, and the answer will probably
be, It is so because it is. Hide the circular part of the letter, and ask, What is the position
of the other part, and they will say, having previously learnt the elements of form which will
shortly be explained, A perpendicular line; hide that, and ask them what the other part is,
telling them to bend one of their fore-fingers in the same form, and they will say, A curved
line. If they are then asked how they may know it is D, they will say, Because it is made of
a perpendicular line and has a curved line behind. Further information may then be given. Turn
the D letter up thus , and say, I want to teach you the difference between concave and convex:
the under part of the curve is concave and the upper part of it is convex. Then say, I shall
now take the letter away, and wish you to shew me concave and convex on one of your fingers;
when they will bend the forefinger and point them both out on it. Go on with the other letters
in the same way: shew them the vowels after the consonants and analyze each one. For example,
A is formed of two inclined lines and a horizontal line to join them in the centre; and the
top of that letter is an acute angle, and were a line placed at the bottom it would be a triangle.
A brass letter may be moreover shewn to be a substance: its properties may be described as
hard, smooth, bright, &c., and its coming from the mineral kingdom may be noticed, and thus
the instruction may be indefinitely varied.

The power of letters may then be pointed out. Ask them to spell M R, and they will give you
the sound of R, or something like it, and so in reference to other letters. But place the A
against the M as it appears in the figure, and you may teach them to say A, M, AM; and thus
all the way down the left side of the row of consonants. If then you carry the vowel down on
the other side of them, you will change the lesson, and by such means go on almost ad infinitum.
Double rows of consonants may be placed with a vowel between them, and when well practiced
in this, they will ask for the vowel to be omitted that they may supply it, which they will
do very readily and with great pleasure, while there is a tasking of the mind which cannot
but prove beneficial.

Again, turn the frame with the balls round, so that the wires are perpendicular instead of
horizontal, raise a ball gently, and say, To ascend, ascending, ascended; let it fall gently,
saying, to descend, descending, descended; with a little explanation these words will then
be understood, and others may be taught in the same way. To fall, falling, fallen; to rise,
rising, risen; to go, going, gone, will readily occur, and others will easily be supplied by
the ingenuity of the instructor. The frame may also be applied to grammar.

It is to be used as follows:--Move one of the balls to a part of the frame distinct from the
rest. The children will then repeat, "There it is, there it is." Apply your finger to the ball,
and set it running round. The children will immediately change from saying, "There it is,"
to "There it goes, there it goes."

When they have repeated "There it goes" long enough to impress it on their memory, stop the
ball; the children will probably say, "Now it stops, now it stops." When that is the case,
move another ball to it, and then explain to the children the difference between singular and
plural, desiring them to call out, "There they are, there they are;" and when they have done
that as long as may be proper, set both balls moving, and it is likely they will call out,
"There they go, there they go." I do not particularize further, because I know that good teachers
will at once see the principle aimed at, and supply the other requisite lessons: the object
of this book being rather to shew the principle of the thing, than to go into detail.

CHAPTER XII.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In arithmetic, as in every other branch of education, the principal object should be to preserve
the understanding from implicit belief, to invigorate its powers, and to induce the laudable
ambition of progressive improvement."--Edgeworth

       *       *       *       *       *

The advantage of a knowledge of arithmetic has never been disputed. Its universal application
to the business of life renders it an important acquisition to all ranks and conditions of
men. The practicability of imparting the rudiments of arithmetic to very young children has
been satisfactorily shewn by the Infant-school System; and it has been found, likewise, that
it is the readiest and surest way of developing the thinking faculties of the infant mind.
Since the most complicated and difficult questions of arithmetic, as well as the most simple,
are all solvable by the same rules, and on the same principles, it is of the utmost importance
to give children a clear insight into the primary principles of number. For this purpose we
take care to shew them, by visible objects, that all numbers are combinations of unity; and
that all changes of number must arise either from adding to or taking from a certain stated
number. After this, or rather, perhaps I should say, in conjunction with this instruction,
we exhibit to the children the signs of number, and make them acquainted with their various
combinations; and lastly, we bring them to the abstract consideration of number; or what may
be termed mental arithmetic. If you reverse this, which has generally been the system of instruction
pursued--if you set a child to learn its multiplication, pence, and other tables, before you
have shewn it by realities, the combinations of unity which these tables express in words--you
are rendering the whole abstruse, difficult, and uninteresting; and, in short, are giving it
knowledge which it is unable to apply.

As far as regards the general principles of numerical tuition, it may be sufficient to state,
that we should begin with unity, and proceed very gradually, by slow and sure steps, through
the simplest forms of combinations to the more comprehensive. Trace and retrace your first
steps--the children can never be too thoroughly familiar with the first principles or facts
of number.

We have various ways of teaching arithmetic, in use in the schools; I shall speak of them all,
beginning with a description of the arithmeticon, which is of great utility.

I have thought it necessary in this edition to give the original woodcut of the arithmeticon,
which it will be seen contains twelve wires, with one ball on the first wire, two on the second,
and so progressing up to twelve. The improvement is, that each wire should contain twelve balls,
so that the whole of the multiplication table may be done by it, up to 12 times 12 are 144.
The next step was having the balls painted black and white alternately, to assist the sense
of seeing, it being certain that an uneducated eye cannot distinguish the combinations of colour,
any more than an uneducated ear can distinguish the combinations of sounds. So far the thing
succeeded with respect to the sense of seeing; but there was yet another thing to be legislated
for, and that was to prevent the children's attention being drawn off from the objects to which
it was to be directed, viz. the smaller number of balls as separated from the greater. This
object could only be attained by inventing a board to slide in and hide the greater number
from their view, and so far we succeeded in gaining their undivided attention to the balls
we thought necessary to move out. Time and experience only could shew that there was another
thing wanting, and that was a tablet, as represented in the second woodcut, which had a tendency
to teach the children the difference between real numbers and representative characters, therefore
the necessity of brass figures, as represented on the tablet; hence the children would call
figure seven No. 1, it being but one object, and each figure they would only count as one,
thus making 937, which are the representative characters, only three, which is the real fact,
there being only three objects. It was therefore found necessary to teach the children that
the figure seven would represent 7 ones, 7 tens, 7 hundreds, 7 thousands, or 7 millions, according
to where it might be placed in connection with the other figures; and as this has already been
described, I feel it unnecessary to enlarge upon the subject.

THE ARITHMETICON.

It will be seen that on the twelve parallel wires there are 144 balls, alternately black and
white. By these the elements of arithmetic may be taught as follows:--

Numeration.--Take one ball from the lowest wire, and say units, one, two from the next, and
say tens, two; three from the third, and say hundreds, three; four from the fourth, and say
thousands, four; five from the fifth, and say tens of thousands, five; six from the sixth,
and say hundreds of thousands, six; seven from the seventh, and say millions, seven; eight
from the eighth, and say tens of millions, eight; nine from the ninth, and say hundreds of
millions, nine; ten from the tenth, and say thousands of millions, ten; eleven from the eleventh,
and say tens of thousands of millions, eleven; twelve from the twelfth, and say hundreds of
thousands of millions, twelve.

The tablet beneath the balls has six spaces for the insertion of brass letters and figures,
a box of which accompanies the frame. Suppose then the only figure inserted is the 7 in the
second space from the top: now were the children asked what it was, they would all say, without
instruction, "It is one." If, however, you tell them that an object of such a form stands instead
of seven ones, and place seven balls together on a wire, they will at once see the use and
power of the number. Place a 3 next the seven, merely ask what it is, and they will reply,
"We don't know;" but if you put out three balls on a wire, they will say instantly, "O it is
three ones, or three;" and that they may have the proper name they may be told that they have
before them figure 7 and figure 3. Put a 9 to these figures, and their attention will be arrested:
say, Do you think you can tell me what this is? and, while you are speaking, move the balls
gently out, and, as soon as they see them, they will immediately cry out "Nine;" and in this
way they may acquire a knowledge of all the figures separately. Then you may proceed thus:
Units 7, tens 3; place three balls on the top wire and seven on the second, and say, Thirty-seven,
as you point to the figures, and thirty-seven as you point to the balls. Then go on, units
7, tens, 3, hundreds 9, place nine balls on the top wire, three on the second, and seven on
the third, and say, pointing to each, Nine hundred and thirty-seven. And so onwards.

To assist the understanding and exercise the judgment, slide a figure in the frame, and say,
Figure 8. Q. What is this? A. No. 8. Q. If No. 1 be put on the left side of the 8, what will
it be? A. 81. Q. If the 1 be put on the right side, then what will it be? A. 18. Q. If the
figure 4 be put before the 1, then what will the number be? A. 418. Q. Shift the figure 4,
and put it on the left side of the 8, then ask the children to tell the number, the answer
is 184. The teacher can keep adding and shifting as he pleases, according to the capacity of
his pupils, taking care to explain as he goes on, and to satisfy himself that his little flock
perfectly understand him. If the children are practised in this way, they will soon learn numeration.

The frame was employed for this purpose long before its application to others was perceived;
but at length I found we might proceed to

Addition.--We proceed as follows:--1 and 2 are 3, and 3 are 6, and 4 are 10, and 5 are 15,
and 6 are 21, and 7 are 28, and 8 are 36, and 9 are 45, and 10 are 55, and 11 are 66, and 12
are 78.

Then the master may exercise them backwards, saying, 12 and 11 are 23, and 10 are 33, and 9
are 42, and 8 are 50, and 7 are 57, and 6 are 63, and 5 are 68, and 4 are 72, and 3 are 75,
and 2 are 77, and 1 is 78, and so on in great variety.

Again: place seven balls on one wire, and two on the next, and ask them how many 7 and 2 are;
to this they will soon answer, Nine: then put the brass figure 9 on the tablet beneath, and
they will see how the amount is marked: then take eight balls and three, when they will see
that eight and three are eleven. Explain to them that they cannot put underneath two figure
ones which mean 11, but they must put 1 under the 8, and carry 1 to the 4, when you must place
one ball under the four, and, asking them what that makes, they will say, Five. Proceed by
saying, How much are five and nine? put out the proper number of balls, and they will say,
Five and nine are fourteen. Put a four underneath, and tell them, as there is no figure to
put the 1 under, it must be placed next to it: hence they see that 937 added to 482, make a
total of 1419.

Subtraction may be taught in as many ways by this instrument. Thus: take 1 from 1, nothing
remains; moving the first ball at the same time to the other end of the frame. Then remove
one from the second wire, and say, take one from 2, the children will instantly perceive that
only 1 remains; then 1 from 3, and 2 remain; 1 from 4, 3 remain; 1 from 5, 4 remain; 1 from
6, 5 remain; 1 from 7, 6 remain; 1 from 8, 7 remain; 1 from 9, 8 remain; 1 from 10, 9 remain;
1 from 11, 10 remain; 1 from 12, 11 remain.

Then the balls may be worked backwards, beginning at the wire containing 12 balls, saying,
take 2 from 12, 10 remain; 2 from 11, 9 remain; 2 from 10, 8 remain; 2 from 9, 7 remain; 2
from 8, 6 remain; 2 from 7, 5 remain; 2 from 6, 4 remain; 2 from 5, 3 remain; 2 from 4, 2 remain;
2 from 3, 1 remains.

The brass figure should be used for the remainder in each case. Say, then, can you take 8 from
3 as you point to the figures, and they will say "Yes;" but skew them 3 balls on a wire and
ask them to deduct 8 from them, when they will perceive their error. Explain that in such a
case they must borrow one; then say take 8 from 13, placing 12 balls on the top wire, borrow
one from the second, and take away eight and they will see the remainder is five; and so on
through the sum, and others of the same kind.

In Multiplication, the lessons are performed as follows. The teacher moves the first ball,
and immediately after the two balls on the second wire, placing them underneath the first,
saying at the same time, twice one are two, which the children will readily perceive. We next
remove the two balls on the second wire for a multiplier, and then remove two balls from the
third wire, placing them exactly under the first two, which forms a square, and then say twice
two are four, which every child will discern for himself, as he plainly perceives there are
no more. We then move three on the third wire, and place three from the fourth wire underneath
them saying, twice three are six. Remove the four on the fourth wire, and four on the fifth,
place them as before and say, twice four are eight. Remove five from the fifth wire, and five
from the sixth wire underneath them, saying twice five are ten. Remove six from the sixth wire,
and six from the seventh wire underneath them and say, twice six are twelve. Remove seven from
the seventh wire, and seven from the eighth wire underneath them, saying, twice seven are fourteen.
Remove eight from the eighth wire, and eight from the ninth, saying, twice eight are sixteen.
Remove nine on the ninth wire, and nine on the tenth wire, saying twice nine are eighteen.
Remove ten on the tenth wire, and ten on the eleventh underneath them, saying, twice ten are
twenty. Remove eleven on the eleventh wire, and eleven on the twelfth, saying, twice eleven
are twenty-two. Remove one from the tenth wire to add to the eleven on the eleventh wire, afterwards
the remaining ball on the twelfth wire, saying, twice twelve are twenty-four.

Next proceed backwards, saying, 12 times 2 are 24, 11 times 2 are 22, 10 times 2 are 20, &c.

For Division, suppose you take from the 144 balls gathered together at one end, one from each
row, and place the 12 at the other end, thus making a perpendicular row of ones: then make
four perpendicular rows of three each and the children will see there are 4 3's in 12. Divide
the 12 into six parcels, and they will see there are. 6 2's in 12. Leave only two out, and
they will see, at your direction, that 2 is the sixth part of 12. Take away one of these and
they will see one is the twelfth part of 12, and that 12 1's are twelve.

To explain the state of the frame as it appears in the cut, we must first suppose that the
twenty-four balls which appear in four lots, are gathered together at the figured side: when
the children will see there are three perpendicular 8's, and as easily that there are 8 horizontal
3's. If then the teacher wishes them to tell how many 6's there are in twenty-four, he moves
them out as they appear in the cut, and they see there are four; and the same principle is
acted on throughout.

The only remaining branch of numerical knowledge, which consists in an ability to comprehend
the powers of numbers, without either visible objects or signs--is imparted as follows:

Addition.

One of the children is placed before the gallery, and repeats aloud, in a kind of chaunt, the
whole of the school repeating after him; One and one are two; two and one are three; three
and one are four, &c. up to twelve.

Two and two are four; four and two are six; six and two are eight, &c. to twenty-four.

Three and three are six; six and three are nine; nine and three are twelve, &c. to thirty-six.

Subtraction.

One from twelve leaves eleven; one from eleven leaves ten, &c.

Two from twenty-four leave twenty-two; two from twenty-two leave twenty, &c.

Multiplication.

Twice one are two; twice two are four, &c. &c. Three times three are nine, three times four
are twelve, &c. &c.

Twelve times two are twenty-four; eleven times two are twenty-two, &c. &c.

Twelve times three are thirty-six; eleven times three are thirty-three, &c. &c. until the whole
of the multiplication table is gone through.

Division.

  There are twelve twos in twenty-four.--There are
  eleven twos in twenty-two, &c. &c.
  There are twelve threes in thirty-six, &c.
  There are twelve fours in forty-eight, &c. &c.

Fractions.

  Two are the half (1/2) of four.
  "    "   "  third (1/3) of six.
  "    "   "  fourth (1/2) of eight.
  "    "   "  fifth (1/5) of ten.
  "    "   "  sixth (1/6) of twelve.
  "    "   "  seventh (1/7) of fourteen.
  "    "   "  twelfth (1/12) of twenty-four; two are the
  eleventh (1/11) of twenty-two, &c. &c.

  Three are the half (1/2) of six.
  "     "    "  third (1/3) of nine.
  "     "    "  fourth (1/4) of twelve.

  Three are the twelfth (1/12) of thirty-six; three are
  the eleventh (1/11) of thirty-three, &c. &c.

  Four are the half (1/2) of eight, &c.

  In twenty-three are four times five, and three-fifths
  (3/5) of five; in thirty-five are four times eight, and three-eighths
  (3/8) of eight.

  In twenty-two are seven times three, and one-third
  (1/3) of three.

  In thirty-four are four times eight, and one-fourth
  (1/4) of eight.

The tables subjoined are repeated by the same method, each section being a distinct lesson.
To give an idea to the reader, the boy in the rostrum says ten shillings the half (1/2) of
a pound; six shillings and eightpence one-third (1/3) of a pound, &c.

Sixpence the half (1/2) of a shilling, &c. Always remembering, that whatever the boy says in
the rostrum, the other children must repeat after him, but not till the monitor has ended his
sentence; and before the monitor delivers the second sentence, he waits till the children have
concluded the first, they waiting for him, and he for them; this prevents confusion, and is
the means of enabling persons to understand perfectly what is going on in the school.

In a book lately published, which is a compilation by two London masters, it is stated, in
the preface, that they were at a loss for proper lessons: had they used those in existence
I cannot help thinking they were enough for the capacity of children under six years of age.

254 ARITHMETICAL TABLES.

Numeration, Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division, and Pence Tables. ||      NUMERATION
TABLE.    | |------------------------------------||---------------------------| |2--2 are 4|4--5
are 20| 6--12 are 72||          1 Units.         | |   3 --  6|   6 --  24| 7-- 7 --  49||
21 Tens.          | |   4 --  8|   7 --  28|     8 --  56||        321 Hundreds       | | 
5 -- 10|   8 --  32|     9 --  63||      4,321 Thousands.     | |   6 -- 12|   9 --  36|  
10 --  70||     54,321 X of Thousands.| |   7 -- 14|  10 --  40|    11 --  77||    654,321
C of Thousands.| |   8 -- 16|  11 --  44|    12 --  84||  7,654,321 Millions.      | |   9
-- 18|  12 --  48| 8-- 8 --  64|| 87,654,321 X of Millions. | |  10 -- 20|5--5 --  25|    
9 --  72||987,654,321 C of Millions. | |  11 -- 22|   6 --  30|    10 --  80||===========================|
|  12 -- 24|   7 --  35|    11 --  88||                           | |3--3 --  9|   8 --  40|
12 --  96||       PENCE TABLE         | |   4 -- 12|   9 --  45| 9-- 9 --  81||           
| |   5 -- 15|  10 --  50|    10 --  90||---------------------------| |   6 -- 18|  11 -- 
55|    11 --  99|| d. s. d.|d.  s. d.| |   7 -- 21|  12 --  60|    12 -- 108|| 20 is 1  8 
| 90 is 7  6  | |   8 -- 24|6--6 --  36|10--10 -- 100|| 30 -- 2  6  |100 -- 8  4  | |   9 --
27|   7 --  42|    11 -- 110|| 40 -- 3  4  |110 -- 9  2  | |  10 -- 30|   8 --  48|    12 --
120|| 50 -- 4  2  |120 --10  0  | |  11 -- 33|   9 --  54|11--11 -- 121|| 60 -- 5  0  |130
--10 10  | |  12 -- 36|  10 --  60|    12 -- 132|| 70 -- 5 10  |140 --11  8  | |4--4 -- 16|
11 --  66|12--12 -- 144|| 80 -- 6  8  |144 --12  0  | -------------------------------------------------------------------

Tables of Weights and Measures.

Shilling Tables

s.   l. s. 20 are  1  0 30 ---- 1  10 40 ---- 2  0 50 ---- 2  10 60 ---- 3  0 70 ---- 3  10
80 ---- 4  0 90 ---- 4  10 100 are 5  0 110 --- 5  10 120 --- 6  0 130 --- 6  10 140 --- 7
0 150 --- 7  10 160 --- 8  0 170 --- 8  10

       *       *       *       *       *

Practice Tables.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of a Pound.

s. d.
  10  0 are half
  6   8 --- third
  5   0 --- fourth
  4   0 --- fifth
  3   4 --- sixth
  2   6 --- eighth
  1   8 --- twelfth
  1   0 --- twentieth

Of a shilling.

6d. are half 4     --- third 3     --- fourth 2     --- sixth 1     --- twelfth

       *       *       *       *       *

Time.

60 seconds       1 minute 60 minutes       1 hour 24 hours         1 day 7 days           1
week 4 weeks          1 lunar month 12 cal. mon.     1 year 13 lunar months, 1 day, 6 hours,
or 365 days, 6 hours, 1 year.

       *       *       *       *       *

Troy Weight.

24 grains         1 pennywt. 20 pennywhts.     1 ounce 12 ounces         1 pound

       *       *       *       *       *

Avoirdupoise Weight.

16 drams          1 ounce 16 ounces         1 pound 28 pounds         1 quarter 4 quarters
1 hund. wt. 20 hund. wt.      1 ton

       *       *       *       *       *

 Apothecaries Weight.

7 pounds     1 clove 2 cloves     1 stone 2 stones     1 tod 6½ tods      1 wey 2 weys    
1 sack 12 sacks     1 last

       *       *       *       *       *

Wine Measure.

4 pecks         1 bushel 9 bushels       1 vat or strike 3 bushels       1 sack 12 sacks  
1 chaldron 91 chaldron     1 score

       *       *       *       *       *

Dry Measure.

2 pints        1 quart 2 quarts       1 pottle 2 pottles      1 gallon 2 gallons      1 peck
4 pecks        1 bushel 2 bushels      1 strike 5 bushels      1 sack flour 8 bushels     
1 quarter 5 quarters     1 wey or load 5 pecks        1 bushl. water measure 4 bushels    
1 coom 10 cooms       1 wey 2 weys         1 last corn

       *       *       *       *       *

Solid or Cubic Measure.

1728 inches     1 foot 27 feet         1 yard or load

       *       *       *       *       *

Long Measure.

3 barleycorns     1 inch 12 inches         1 foot 3 feet            1 yard 6 feet         
1 fathom 5½ yards          1 pole or rod 40 poles          1 furlong 8 furlongs        1 mile
3 miles           1 league 20 leagues        1 degree

       *       *       *       *       *

Cloth Measure.

24 inches      1 nail 4 nails        1 quarter 4 quarters     1 yard 5 quarters     1 English
ell 3 quarters     1 Flemish ell 6 quarters     1 French ell

       *       *       *       *       *

Land or Square Measure.

144 inches     1 foot 9 feet         1 yard 30¾ yards      1 pole 40 poles       1 rood 4 roods
1 acre 640 acres      1 mile

This includes length and breadth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hay.

36 pounds      1 truss of straw 56 pounds      1 do. of old hay 60 pounds      1 do. of new
hey 36 trusses     1 load

MONEY.

  Two farthings one halfpenny make,
  A penny four of such will take;
  And to allow I am most willing
  That twelve pence always make a shilling;
  And that five shillings make a crown,
  Twenty a sovereign, the same as pound.
  Some have no cash, some have to spare--
  Some who have wealth for none will care.
  Some through misfortune's hand brought low,
  Their money gone, are filled with woe,
  But I know better than to grieve;
  If I have none I will not thieve;
  I'll be content whate'er's my lot,
  Nor for misfortunes care a groat.
  There is a Providence whose care
  And sovereign love I crave to share;
  His love is gold without alloy;
  Those who possess't have endless joy.

TIME OR CHRONOLOGY.

  Sixty seconds make a minute;
    Time enough to tie my shoe
  Sixty minutes make an hour;
    Shall it pass and nought to do?

  Twenty-four hours will make a day
    Too much time to spend in sleep,
  Too much time to spend in play,
    For seven days will end the week,

  Fifty and two such weeks will put
    Near an end to every year;
  Days three hundred sixty-five
    Are the whole that it can share.

  Saving leap year, when one day
    Added is to gain lost time;
  May it not be spent in play,
    Nor in any evil crime.

  Time is short, we often say;
    Let us, then, improve it well;
  That eternally we may
    Live where happy angels dwell.

AVOIRDUPOISE WEIGHT.

  Sixteen drachms are just an ounce,
    As you'll find at any shop;
  Sixteen ounces make a pound,
    Should you want a mutton chop.

  Twenty-eight pounds are the fourth
    Of an hundred weight call'd gross;
  Four such quarters are the whole
    Of an hundred weight at most.

      Oh! how delightful,
      Oh! how delightful,
      Oh! how delightful,
      To sing this rule.

  Twenty hundreds make a ton;
    By this rule all things are sold
  That have any waste or dross
    And are bought so, too, I'm told.

  When we buy and when we sell,
    May we always use just weight;
  May we justice love so well
    To do always what is right.

      Oh! how delightful,
        &c., &c., &c.

APOTHECARIES' WEIGHT.

  Twenty grains make a scruple,--some scruple to take;
  Though at times it is needful, just for our health's sake;
  Three scruples one drachm, eight drachms make one ounce,
  Twelve ounces one pound, for the pestle to pounce.

  By this rule is all medicine mix'd, though I'm told
  By Avoirdupoise weight 'tis bought and 'tis sold.
  But the best of all physic, if I may advise,
  Is temperate living and good exercise.

DRY MEASURE.

  Two pints will make one quart
    Of barley, oats, or rye;
  Two quarts one pottle are, of wheat
    Or any thing that's dry.

  Two pottles do one gallon make,
    Two gallons one peck fair,
  Four pecks one bushel, heap or brim,
    Eight bushels one quarter are.

  If, when you sell, you give
    Good measure shaken down,
  Through motives good, you will receive
    An everlasting crown.

ALE AND BEER MEASURE.

  Two pints will make one quart,
    Four quarts one gallon, strong:--
  Some drink but little, some too much,--
    To drink too much is wrong.

  Eight gallons one firkin make,
    Of liquor that's call'd ale
  Nine gallons one firkin of beer,
    Whether 'tis mild or stale.

  With gallons fifty-four
    A hogshead I can fill:
  But hope I never shall drink much,
    Drink much whoever will.

WINE, OIL, AND SPIRIT MEASURE.

  Two pints will make one quart
    Of any wine, I'm told:
  Four quarts one gallon are of port
    Or claret, new or old.

  Forty-two gallons will
    A tierce fill to the bung:
  And sixty-three's a hogshead full
    Of brandy, oil, or rum.

  Eighty-four gallons make
    One puncheon fill'd to brim,
  Two hogsheads make one pipe or butt,
    Two pipes will make one tun.

  A little wine within
    Oft cheers the mind that's sad;
  But too much brandy, rum, or gin,
    No doubt is very bad.

  From all excess beware,
    Which sorrow must attend;
  Drunkards a life of woe must share,--
    When time with them shall end.

The arithmeticon, I would just remark, may be applied to geometry. Round, square, oblong, &c.
&c., may be easily taught. It may also be used in teaching geography. The shape of the earth
may be shewn by a ball, the surface by the outside, its revolution on its axis by turning it
round, and the idea of day and night may be given by a ball and a candle in a dark-room.

As the construction and application of this instrument is the result of personal, long-continued,
and anxious effort, and as I have rarely seen a pirated one made properly or understood, I
may express a hope that whenever it is wanted either for schools or nurseries, application
will be made for it to my depot.

I have only to add, that a board is placed at the back to keep the children from seeing the
balls, except as they are put out; and that the brass figures at the side are intended to assist
the master when he is called away, so that he may see, on returning to the frame, where he
left off.

The slightest glance at the wood-cut will shew how unjust the observations of the writer of
"Schools for the Industrious Classes, or the Present State of Education amongst the Working
People of England," published under the superintendance of the Central Society of Education,
are, where he says, "We are willing to assume that Mr. Wilderspin has originated some improvements
in the system of Infant School education; but Mr. Wilderspin claims so much that many persons
have been led to refuse him that degree of credit to which he is fairly entitled. For example,
he claims a beneficial interest in an instrument called the Arithmeticon, of which he says
he was the inventor. This instrument was described in a work on arithmetic, published by Mr.
Friend forty years ago. The instrument is, however, of much older date; it is the same in principle
as the Abacus of the Romans, and in its form resembles as nearly as possible the Swanpan of
the Chinese, of which there is a drawing in the Encyclopaedia Brittanica. Mr. Wilderspin merely
invented the name." Now, I defy the writer of this to prove that the Arithmeticon existed before
I invented it. I claim no more than what is my due. The Abacus of the Romans is entirely different;
still more so is the Chinese Swanpan; if any person will take the trouble to look into the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, they will see the difference at once, although I never heard of either
until they were mentioned in the pamphlet referred to. There are 144 balls on mine, and it
is properly simplified for infants with the addition of the tablet, which explains the representative
characters as well as the real ones, which are the balls.

I have not yet heard what the Central Society have invented; probably we shall soon hear of
the mighty wonders performed by them, from one end of the three kingdoms to the other. Their
whole account of the origin of the Infant System is as partial and unjust as it possibly can
be. Mr. Simpson, whom they quote, can tell them so, as can also some of the committee of management,
whose names I see at the commencement of the work. The Central Society seem to wish to pull
me down, as also does the other society to whom reference is made is the same page of which
I complain; and I distinctly charge both societies with doing me great injustice; the society
complains of my plans without knowing them, the other adopts them without acknowledgment, and
both have sprung up fungus-like, after the Infant System had been in existence many years,
and I had served three apprenticeships to extend and promote it, without receiving subscriptions
or any public aid whatever. It is hard, after a man has expended the essence of his constitution,
and spent his children's property for the public good, in inducing people to establish schools
in the principal towns in the three kingdoms,--struck at the root of domestic happiness, by
personally visiting each town, doing the thing instead of writing about it--that societies
of his own countrymen should be so anxious to give the credit to foreigners. Verily it is most
true that a Prophet has no honour in his own country. The first public honour I ever received
was at Inverness, in the Highlands of Scotland, the last was by the Jews in London, and I think
there was a space of about twenty years between each.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Geometry is eminently serviceable to improve and strengthen the intellectual faculties."--Jones.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the novel features of the Infant School System, that of geometrical lessons is the most
peculiar. How it happened that a mode of instruction so evidently calculated for the infant
mind was so long overlooked, I cannot imagine; and it is still more surprising that, having
been once thought of, there should be any doubt as to its utility. Certain it is that the various
forms of bodies is one of the first items of natural education, and we cannot err when treading
in the steps of Nature. It is undeniable that geometrical knowledge is of great service in
many of the mechanic arts, and, therefore, proper to be taught children who are likely to be
employed in some of those arts; but, independently of this, we cannot adopt a better method
of exciting and strengthening their powers of observation. I have seen a thousand instances,
moreover, in the conduct of the children, which have assured me, that it is a very pleasing
as well as useful branch of instruction. The children, being taught the first elements of form,
and the terms used to express the various figures of bodies, find in its application to objects
around them an inexhaustible source of amusement. Streets, houses, rooms, fields, ponds, plates,
dishes, tables; in short, every thing they see calls for observation, and affords an opportunity
for the application of their geometrical knowledge. Let it not, then, be said that it is beyond
their capacity, for it is the simplest and most comprehensible to them of all knowledge;--let
it not be said that it is useless, since its application to the useful arts is great and indisputable;
nor is it to be asserted that it is unpleasing to them, since it has been shewn to add greatly
to their happiness.

It is essential in this, as in every other branch of education, to begin with the first principles,
and proceed slowly to their application, and the complicated forms arising therefrom. The next
thing is to promote that application of which we have before spoken, to the various objects
around them. It is this, and this alone, which forms the distinction between a school lesson
and practical knowledge; and so far will the children be found from being averse from this
exertion, that it makes the acquirement of knowledge a pleasure instead of a task. With these
prefatory remarks I shall introduce a description of the method I have pursued, and a few examples
of geometrical lessons.

We will suppose that the whole of the children are seated in the gallery, and that the teacher
(provided with a brass instrument formed for the purpose, which is merely a series of joints
like those to a counting-house candlestick, from which I borrowed the idea,[A] and which may
be altered as required, in a moment,) points to a straight line, asking, What is this? A. A
straight line. Q. Why did you not call it a crooked line? A. Because it is not crooked, but
straight. Q. What are these? A. Curved lines. Q. What do curved lines mean? A. When they are
bent or crooked. Q. What are these? A. Parallel straight lines. Q. What does parallel mean?
A. Parallel means when they are equally distant from each other in every part. Q. If any of
you children were reading a book. that gave an account of some town which had twelve streets,
and it is said that the streets were parallel, would you understand what it meant? A. Yes;
it would mean that the streets were all the same way, side by side, like the lines which we
now see. Q. What are those? A. Diverging or converging straight lines. Q. What is the difference
between diverging and converging lines and parallel lines? A. Diverging or converging lines
are not at an equal distance from each other, in every part, but parallel lines are. Q. What
does diverge mean? A. Diverge means when they go from each other, and they diverge at one end
and converge at the other.[B] Q. What does converge mean? A. Converge means when they come
towards each other. Q. Suppose the lines were longer, what would be the consequence? A. Please,
sir, if they were longer, they would meet together at the end they converge. Q. What would
they form by meeting together? A. By meeting together they would form an angle. Q. What kind
of an angle? A. An acute angle? Q. Would they form an angle at the other end? A. No; they would
go further from each other. Q. What is this? A. A perpendicular line. Q. What does perpendicular
mean? A. A line up straight, like the stem of some trees. Q. If you look, you will see that
one end of the line comes on the middle of another line; what does it form? A. The one which
we now see forms two right angles. Q. I will make a straight line, and one end of it shall
lean on another straight line, but instead of being upright like the perpendicular line, you
see that it is sloping. What does it form? A. One side of it is an acute angle, and the other
side is an obtuse angle. Q. Which side is the obtuse angle? A. That which is the most open.
Q. And which is the acute angle? A. That which is the least open. Q. What does acute mean?
A. When the angle is sharp. Q. What does obtuse mean? A. When the angle is less sharp than
the right angle. Q. If I were to call any one of you an acute child, would you know what I
meant? A. Yes, sir; one that looks out sharp, and tries to think, and pays attention to what
is said to him; and then you would say he was an acute child.

[Footnote b: Mr. Chambers has been good enough to call the instrument referred to, a gonograph;
to that name I have no objection.]

[Footnote B: Desire the children to hold up two fingers, keeping them apart, and they will
perceive they diverge at top and converge at bottom.]

Equi-lateral Triangle.

Q. What is this? A. An equi-lateral triangle. Q. Why is it called equi-lateral? A. Because
its sides are all equal. Q. How many sides has it? A. Three sides. Q. How many angles has it?
A. Three angles. Q. What do you mean by angles? A. The space between two right lines, drawn
gradually nearer to each other, till they meet in a point. Q. And what do you call the point
where the two lines meet? A. The angular point. Q. Tell me why you call it a tri-angle. A.
We call it a tri-angle because it has three angles. Q. What do you mean by equal? A. When the
three sides are of the same length. Q. Have you any thing else to observe upon this? A. Yes,
all its angles are acute.

Isoceles Triangle.

Q. What is this? A. An acute-angled isoceles triangle. Q. What does acute mean? A. When the
angles are sharp. Q. Why is it called an isoceles triangle? A. Because only two of its sides
are equal. Q. How many sides has it? A. Three, the same as the other. Q. Are there any other
kind of isoceles triangles? A. Yes, there are right-angled and obtuse-angled.

[Here the other triangles are to be shewn, and the master must explain to the children the
meaning of right-angled and obtuse-angled.]

Scalene Triangle.

Q. What is this? A. An acute-angled scalene triangle. Q. Why is it called an acute-angled scalene
triangle? A. Because all its angles are acute, and its sides are not equal. Q. Why is it called
scalene? A. Because it has all its sides unequal. Q. Are there any other kind of scalene triangles?
A. Yes, there is a right-angled scalene triangle, which has one right angle. Q. What else?
A. An obtuse-angled scalene triangle, which has one obtuse angle. Q. Can an acute triangle
be an equi-lateral triangle? A. Yes, it may be equilateral, isoceles, or scalene. Q. Can a
right-angled triangle, or an obtuse-angled triangle, be an equilateral? A. No; it must be either
an isoceles or a scalene triangle.

Square.

Q. What is this? A. A square. Q. Why is it called a square? A. Because all its angles are right
angles, and its sides are equal. Q. How many angles has it? A. Four angles. Q. What would it
make if we draw a line from one angle to the opposite one? A. Two right-angled isoceles triangles.
Q. What would you call the line that we drew from one angle to the other? A. A diagonal. Q.
Suppose we draw another line from the other two angles. A. Then it would make four triangles.

Pent-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A regular pentagon. Q. Why is it called a pentagon? A. Because it has five
sides and five angles. Q. Why is it called regular? A. Because its sides and angles are equal.
Q. What does pentagon mean? A. A five-sided figure. Q. Are there any other kinds of pentagons?
A. Yes, irregular pentagons? Q. What does irregular mean? A. When the sides and angles are
not equal.

Hex-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A hexagon. Q. Why is it called a hexagon? A. Because it has six sides and
six angles. Q. What does hexagon mean? A. A six-sided figure. Q. Are there more than one sort
of hexagons? A. Yes, there are regular and irregular. Q. What is a regular hexagon? A. When
the sides and angles are all equal. Q. What is an irregular hexagon? A. When the sides and
angles are not equal.

Hept-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A regular heptagon. Q. Why is it called a heptagon? A. Because it has seven
sides and seven angles. Q. Why is it called a regular heptagon? A. Because its sides and angles
are equal. Q. What does a heptagon mean? A. A seven-sided figure. Q. What is an irregular heptagon?
A. A seven-sided figure, whose sides are not equal.

Oct-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A regular octagon. Q. Why is it called a regular octagon? A. Because it
has eight sides and eight angles, and they are all equal. Q. What does an octagon mean? A.
An eight-sided figure. Q. What is an irregular octagon? A. An eight-sided figure, whose sides
and angles are not all equal. Q. What does an octave mean? A. Eight notes in music.

Non-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A nonagon. Q. Why is it called a nonagon? A. Because it has nine sides
and nine angles. Q. What does a nonagon mean? A. A nine-sided figure. Q. What is an irregular
nonagon? A. A nine-sided figure whose sides and angles are not equal.

Dec-agon.

Q. What is this? A. A regular decagon. Q. What does a decagon mean? A. A ten-sided figure.
Q. Why is it called a decagon? A. Because it has ten sides and ten angles, and there are both
regular and irregular decagons.

Rect-angle or Oblong.

Q. What is this? A. A rectangle or oblong. Q. How many sides and angles has it? A. Four, the
same as a square. Q. What is the difference between a rectangle and a square? A. A rectangle
has two long sides, and the other two are much shorter, but a square has its sides equal.

Rhomb.

Q. What is this? A. A rhomb. Q. What is the difference between a rhomb and a rectangle? A.
The sides of the rhomb are equal, but the sides of the rectangle are not all equal. Q. Is there
any other difference? A. Yes, the angles of the rectangle are equal, but the rhomb has only
its opposite angles equal.

Rhomboid.

Q. What is this? A. A rhomboid. Q. What is the difference between a rhomb and a rhomboid? A.
The sides of the rhomboid are not equal, nor yet its angles, but the sides of the rhomb are equal.

Trapezoid.

Q. What is this. A. A trapezoid. Q. How many sides has it? A. Four sides and four angles, it
has only two of its angles equal, which are opposite to each other.

Tetragon.

Q. What do we call these figures that have four sides. A. Tetragons, tetra meaning four. Q.
Are they called by another name? A. Yes, they are called quadrilaterals, or quadrangles. Q.
How many regular tetragons are among those we have mentioned? A. One, that is the square, all
the others are irregular tetragons, because their sides and angles are not all equal. Q. By
what name would you call the whole of the figures on this board? A. Polygons; those that have
their sides and angles equal we would call regular polygons. Q. What would you call those angles
whose sides were not equal? A. Irregular polygons, and the smallest number of sides a polygon
can have is three, and the number of corners are always equal to the number of sides.

Ellipse or Oval.

Q. What is this? A. An ellipse or an oval. Q. What shape is the top or crown of my bat? A.
Circular. Q. What shape is that part which comes on my forehead and the back part of my head?
A. Oval.

The other polygons are taught the children in rotation, in the same simple manner, all tending
to please and edify them.

The following is sung:--

  Horizontal, perpendicular,
  Horizontal, perpendicular,
   Parallel, parallel,
   Parallel, lines,
  Diverging, converging, diverging lines,
  Diverging, converging, diverging lines.

  Spreading wider, or expansion,
  Drawing nearer, or contraction,
    Falling, rising,
    Slanting, crossing,
  Convex, concave, curved lines,
  Convex, concave, curved lines.

  Here's a wave line, there's an angle,
  Here's a wave line, there's an angle;
    An ellipsis,
    Or an oval,
  A semicircle half way round,
  Then a circle wheeling round.

Some amusing circumstances have occured from the knowledge of form thus acquired.

"D'ye ken, Mr. Wilderspin," said a child at Glasgow one day, "that we have an oblong table:
it's made o' deal; four sides, four corners, twa lang sides, and twa short anes; corners mean
angles, and angles mean corners. My brother ga'ed himsel sic a clink o' the eye against ane
at hame; but ye ken there was nane that could tell the shape o' the thing that did it!"

A little boy was watching his mother making pan-cakes and wishing they were all done; when,
after various observations as to their comparative goodness with and without sugar, he exclaimed,
"I wonder which are best, elliptical pan-cakes or circular ones!" As this was Greek to the
mother she turned round with "What d'ye say?" When the child repeated the observation. "Bless
the child!" said the astonished parent, "what odd things ye are always saying; what can you
mean by liptical pancakes? Why, you little fool, don't you know they are made of flour and
eggs, and did you not see me put the milk into the large pan and stir all up together?" "Yes,"
said the little fellow, "I know what they are made of, and I know what bread is made of, but
that is'nt the shape; indeed, indeed, mother, they are elliptical pan-cakes, because they are
made in an elliptical frying-pan." An old soldier who lodged in the house, was now called down
by the mother, and he decided that the child was right, and far from being what, in her surprize
and alarm, she took him to be.

On another occasion a little girl had been taken to market by her mother, where she was struck
by the sight of the carcasses of six sheep recently killed, and said, "Mother, what are these?"
The reply was, "Dead sheep, dead sheep, don't bother." "They are suspended, perpendicular,
and parallels," rejoined the child. "What? What?" was then the question. "Why, mother," was
the child's answer, "don't you see they hang up, that's suspended; they are straight up, that's
perpendicular; and they are at equal distances, that's parallel."

On another occasion a child came crying to school, at having been beaten for contradicting
his father, and begged of me to go to his father and explain; which I did. The man received
me kindly, and told me that he had beaten the child for insisting that the table which he pointed
out was not round, which he repeated was against all evidence of the senses; that the child
told him that if it was round, nothing would stand upon it, which so enraged him, that he thrashed
him, as he deserved, and sent him off to school, adding, to be thus contradicted by a child
so young, was too bad. The poor little fellow stood between us looking the picture of innocence
combined with oppression, which his countenance fully developed, but said not a word. Under
the said table there happened to be a ball left by a younger child. I took it up and kindly
asked the man the shape of it? he instantly replied, "Round." "Then," said I, "is that table
the same shape as the ball?" The man thought for a minute, and then said, "It is round-flat."
I then explained the difference to him between the one and the other, more accurately, of course,
than the infant could; and told him, as he himself saw a distinction, it was evident they were
not both alike, and told him that the table was circular. "Ah!" said be, "that is just what
the little one said! but I did not understand what circular meant; but now I see he is right."
The little fellow was so pleased, that he ran to his father directly with delight. The other
could not resist the parental impulse, but seized the boy and kissed him heartily.

The idea of size is necessary to a correct apprehension of objects. To talk of yards, feet,
or inches, to a child, unless they are shown, is just as intelligible as miles, leagues, or
degrees. Let there then be two five-feet rods, a black foot and a white foot alternately, the
bottom foot marked in inches, and let there be a horizontal piece to slide up and down to make
various heights. Thus, when the height of a lion, or elephant, &c. &c., is mentioned, it may
be shown by the rod; while the girth may be exhibited by a piece of cord, which should always
be ready. Long measure is taught as follows:

  Take barley-corns of mod'rate length,
    And three you'll find will make an inch;
  Twelve inches make a foot;--if strength
    Permit; I'll leap it and not flinch.
  Three feet's a yard, as understood
    By those possess'd with sense and soul;
  Five feet and half will make a rood,
    And also make a perch or pole.
  Oh how pretty, wond'rously pretty,
    Every rule
    We learn at school
  Is wondrously pretty.

  Forty such poles a furlong make,
    And eight such furlongs make a mile,
  O'er hedge, or ditch, or seas, or lake;
    O'er railing, fence, or gate, or stile.
  Three miles a league, by sea or land,
    And twenty leagues are one degree;
  Just four times ninety degrees a band
    Will make to girt the earth and sea.
  Oh how pretty, &c.

  But what's the girth of hell or heaven?
    (No natural thought or eye can see,)
  To neither girth or length is given;
    'Tis without space--Immensity.
  Still shall the good and truly wise,
    The seat of heaven with safety find;
  Because 'tis seen with inward eyes,
    The first resides within their mind.
  Oh how pretty, &c.

Whatever can be shewn by the rod should be, and I entreat teachers not to neglect this part
of their duty. If the tables be merely learnt, the children will be no wiser than before.

Another anecdote may be added here, to shew that children even under punishment may think of
their position with advantage. Doctor J., of Manchester, sent two of his children to an infant
school, for the upper classes, and one of his little daughters had broken some rule in conjunction
with two other little ladies in the same school; two of the little folks were placed, one in
each corner of the room, and Miss J. was placed in the centre, when the child came home in
the evening, Doctor J. enquired, "Well, Mary, how have you got on at school to day?" the reply
was "Oh, papa, little Miss ---- and Fanny ----, and I, were put out, they were put in the corners
and I in the middle of the room, and there we all stood, papa, a complete triangle of dunces."
The worthy doctor took great pleasure in mentioning this anecdote in company, as shewing the
effect of a judicious cultivation of the thinking faculties.

In my peregrinations by sea and land, with infants, we have had some odd and amusing scenes.
I sometimes have had infants at sea for several days and nights to the great amusement of the
sailors: I have seen some of these fine fellows at times in fits of laughter at the odd words,
as they called them, which the children used; at other times I have seen some of them in tears,
at the want of knowledge, they saw in themselves; and when they heard the infants sing on deck,
and explain the odd words by things in the ship, the sailors were delighted to have the youngsters
in their berths, and no nurse could take better care of them than these noble fellows did.

I could relate anecdote after anecdote to prove the utility of this part of our system, but
as it is now more generally in the training juvenile schools, and becoming better known, it
may not be necessary, especially as the prejudice against it is giving way, and the public
mind is better informed than it was on the subject, and moreover it must be given more in detail
in the larger work on Juvenile Training or National Education.

       *       *       *       *       *

"From sea to sea, from realm to realm I rove."--Tickell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Geography is to children a delightful study. We give some idea of it at an early period in
infant schools, by singing, "London is the capital, the capital, the capital, London is the
capital, the capital of England," and other capitals in the same way; and also by pictures
of the costumes of the various people of the world. To teach the four quarters of the globe,
we tell children the different points of the play-ground, and then send them to the eastern,
western, northern, or southern quarters, as we please. A weathercock should also be placed
at the top of the school, and every favourable day opportunities should be seized by the teachers
to give practical instructions upon it.[A]

[Footnote A: If the lesson is on objects it will shew how children are taught the points of
the compass, with which we find they are very much delighted, the best proof that can be given
that it is not injurious to the faculties.]

Sacred geography is of great importance, and children are much pleased at finding out the spots
visited by our Saviour, or the route of the apostle Paul.

THE EARTH.

  The earth, on which we all now live,
  Is called a globe--its shape I'll give;
  If in your pocket you've a ball,
  You have it's shape,--but that's not all;
  For land and water it contains,
  And presently I'll give their names.
  The quarters are called, Africa,
  Europe, Asia, and America;
  These contain straits, oceans, seas,
  Continents, promontories,
  Islands, rivers, gulfs, or bays,
  Isthmusses, peninsulas,--
  Each divides or separates
  Nations, kingdoms, cities, states,--
  Mountains, forests, hills, and dales,
  Dreary deserts, rocks, and vales.

   In forests, deserts, bills, and plains,
     Where feet have never trod,
   There still in mighty power, He reigns,
     An ever-present God.

THE CARDINAL POINTS.

  The east is where the sun does rise
  Each morning, in the glorious skies;
  Full west he sets, or hides his head,
  And points to us the time for bed;
  He's in the south at dinner time;
  The north is facing to a line.

The above can be given as a gallery lesson, and it will at once be seen that it requires explanation:
the explanation is given by the teacher in the same way as we have hinted at in former lessons,
though for the sake of those teachers who may not be competent to do it, we subjoin the following:

Q. Little children what have we been singing about? A. The earth on which we live. Q. What
is the earth called? A. A globe. Q. What is the shape of a globe? A. Round, like an orange.
Q. Is the earth round, like an orange? A. Yes. Q. Does it always stand still? A. No, it goes
round the sun. Q. How often does it go round the sun in a year? A. Once. Q. Does it go round
anything else but the sun? A. Yes, round its own axis, in the same way as you turn the balls
round on the wires of the arithmeticon. Q. What are these motions called? A. Its motion round
the sun is called its annual or yearly motion. Q. What is its other motion called? A. Its diurnal
or daily motion. Q. What is caused by its motion round the sun? A. The succession of summer,
winter, spring, and autumn, which are called the four seasons, is caused by this. Q. What is
caused by its daily motion round its own axis? A. Day and night. Q. Into what two principal
things is this earth on which we live divided? A. Into land and water. Q. Into how many great
parts is the globe divided? A. Into five. Q. Which are they? A. Europe, Asia, Africa, America,
and Australia. Q. Which part do you live in? A. In Europe.

Q. What is a strait? A. A narrow part of the sea joining one great sea to another. Q. What
is an ocean? A. A very large sea. Q. What is a gulf or bay? A. A part of the sea running a
long way into the land. Q. What is a continent? A. A very large tract of land. Q. What does
a continent contain? A. Nations and kingdoms, such as England. Q. What more? A. Many cities
and towns. Q. What more? A. Mountains. Q What are mountains? A. Very high steep places. Q.
What more does a continent contain? A. Forests, hills, deserts, and valleys. Q. What is a forest?
A. Many large trees growing over a great deal of the land is a forest. Q. What are hills? A.
Parts of the ground which rise higher than the rest. Q. What is a desert? A. A part of the
earth where nothing will grow, and which is covered with hot sand. Q. What is a valley? A.
A part of the earth which is lower than the rest, with hills at each side. Q. Who made all
that we have been speaking of? A. Almighty God.

I can remember the time when no national school in England possessed a map. It was thought
dangerous to teach geography, as in fact anything but cramming the memory, and reading and
writing. With regard to the reading I will say nothing as to how much was understood, explaining
then, was out of the question. What a change have I lived to see!

CHAPTER XV.

PICTURES AND CONVERSATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The parents of Dr. Doddridge brought him up in the early knowledge of religion. Before he
could read, his mother taught him the histories of the Old and New Testament, by the assistance
of some Dutch tiles in the chimney of the room where they usually sat; and accompanied her
instructions with such wise and pious reflections, as make strong and lasting impressions upon
his heart"--See his Life.[A]

[Footnote A: This gave me the idea of introducing Scripture pictures for the infants; and that
they are successful can be vouched for by hundreds of teachers besides myself.]

       *       *       *       *       *

To give the children general information, it has been found advisable to have recourse to pictures
of natural history, such as of birds, beasts, fishes, flowers, insects, &c., all of which tend
to shew the glory of God; and as colours attract the attention of children as soon as any thing,
they eagerly inquire what such a thing is, and this gives the teacher an opportunity of instructing
them to great advantage; for when a child of his own free will eagerly desires to be informed,
he is sure to profit by the information then imparted.

We use also pictures of public buildings, and of the different trades; by the former, the children
acquire much information, from the explanations which are given to them of the use of buildings,
in what year they were built, &c.; whilst by the latter, we are enabled to find out the bias
of a child's inclination. Some would like to be shoemakers, others builders, others weavers,
others brewers, &c.; in short it is both pleasing and edifying to hear the children give answers
to the different questions. I remember one little boy, who said he should like to be a doctor;
and when asked why he made choice of that profession in preference to any other, his answer
was, "Because he should like to cure all the sick people." If parents did but study the inclinations
of their children a little more, I humbly conceive, that there would be more eminent men in
every profession than there are. It is great imprudence to determine what business children
shall be of before their tempers and inclinations are well known. Every one is best in his
own profession--and this should not be determined on rashly and carelessly.

But as it is possible that a person may be very clever in his business or profession, and yet
not be a Christian, it has been thought necessary to direct the children's attention particularly
to the Scriptures. Many difficulties lie in our way; the principal one arises not from their
inability to read the Bible, nor from their inability to comprehend it, but from the apathy
of the heart to its divine principles and precepts. Some parents, indeed, are quite delighted
if their children can read a chapter or two in the Bible, and think that when they can do this,
they have arrived at the summit of knowledge, without once considering whether they understand
a single sentence of what they read, or whether, if they understand it, they feel its truth
and importance. And how can it be expected that they should do either, when no ground-work
has been laid at the time when they received their first impressions and imbibed their first
ideas? Every one comes into the world without ideas, yet with a capacity to receive knowledge
of every kind, and is therefore capable, to a certain extent, of becoming intelligent and wise.
An infant would take hold of the most poisonous reptile, that might sting him to death in an
instant; or attempt to stroke the lion with as little fear as he would the lamb; in short,
he is incapable of distinguishing a friend from a foe. And yet so wonderfully is man formed
by his adorable Creator, that he is capable of increasing his knowledge, and advancing towards
perfection to all eternity, without ever being able to arrive at the summit.

I am the ardent friend of religious education, but what I thus denominate I must proceed to
explain; because of the errors that abound on this subject. Much that bears the name is altogether
unworthy of it. Moral and religious sentiments may be written as copies; summaries of truth,
admirable in themselves, may be deposited in the memory; chapter after chapter too may be repeated
by rote, and yet, after all, the slightest salutary influence may not be exerted on the mind
or the heart. These may resemble "the way-side" in the parable, on which the fowls of the air
devoured the corn as soon as it was sown; and hence those plans should be devised and pursued
from which we may anticipate a harvest of real good. On these, however, my limits will only
allow a few hints.

As soon as possible, I would have a distinction made between the form and power of religion;
between the grimaces and long-facedness so injurious to multitudes, and that principle of supreme
love to God which he alone can implant in the heart. I would exhibit too that "good will to
man" which the gospel urges and inspires, which regards the human race apart from all the circumstances
of clime, colour, or grade; and which has a special reference to those who are most necessitous.
And how can this be done more hopefully than by inculcating, in dependence on the divine blessing,
the history, sermons, and parables of our Lord Jesus Christ; and by the simple, affectionate,
and faithful illustration and enforcement of other parts of holy writ? The infant system, therefore,
includes a considerable number of Scripture lessons, of which the following are specimens:

JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN.

The following method is adopted:--The picture being suspended against the wall, and one class
of the children standing opposite to it, the master repeats the following passages: "And Joseph
dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren; and they hated him yet the more.

The teacher being provided with a pointer will point to the picture, and put the following
questions, or such as he may think better, to the children:

Q. What is this? A. Joseph's first dream. Q. What is a dream? A. When you dream, you see things
during the time of sleep. Q. Did any of you ever dream any thing?

Here the children will repeat what they have dreamed; perhaps something like the following:--Please,
sir, once I dreamed I was in a garden. Q. What did you see? A. I saw flowers and such nice
apples. Q. How do you know it was a dream? A. Because, when I awoke, I found I was in bed.

During this recital the children will listen very attentively, for they are highly pleased
to hear each other's relations. The master having satisfied himself that the children, in some
measure, understand the nature of a dream, he may proceed as follows:--

Q. What did Joseph dream about first? A. He dreamed that his brother's sheaves made obeisance
to his sheaf. Q. What is a sheaf? A. A bundle of corn. Q. What do you understand by making
obeisance? A. To bend your body, which we call making a bow. Q. What is binding sheaves? A.
To bind them, which they do with a band of twisted straw. Q. How many brothers had Joseph?
A. Eleven. Q. What was Joseph's father's name? A. Jacob, he is also sometimes called Israel.

Q. What do you understand by the sun? A. The sun is that bright object in the sky which shines
in the day-time, and which gives us heat and light. Q. Who made the sun? A. Almighty God. Q.
For what purpose did God make the sun? A. To warm and nourish the earth and every thing upon
it. Q. What do you mean by the earth? A. The ground on which we walk, and on which the corn,
trees, and flowers grow. Q. What is it that makes them grow? A. The heat and light of the sun.
Q. Does it require any thing else to make them grow? A. Yes; rain, and the assistance of Almighty
God. Q. What is the moon? A. That object which is placed in the sky, and shines in the night,
and appears larger than the stars. Q. What do you mean by the stars? A. Those bright objects
that appear in the sky at night. Q. What are they? A. Some of them are worlds, and others are
suns to give them light. Q. Who placed them there? A. Almighty God. Q. Should we fear and love
him for his goodness? A. Yes; and for his mercy towards us. Q. Do you think it wonderful that
God should make all these things? A. Yes. Q. Are there any more things that are wonderful to
you? A. Yes;--

  Where'er we turn our wondering eyes,
    His power and skill we see;
  Wonders on wonders grandly rise,
    And speak the Deity.

Q. Who is the Deity? A. Almighty God.

Nothing can be a greater error than to allow the children to use the name of God on every trifling
occasion. Whenever it is necessary, it should, in my opinion, be commenced with Almighty, first,
both by teacher and scholars. I am convinced, from what I have seen in many places, that the
frequent repetition of his holy name has a very injurious effect.

SOLOMON'S WISE JUDGMENT.

Q. What is this? A. A picture of Solomon's wise judgment. Q. Describe what you mean? A. Two
women stood before king Solomon. Q. Did the women say any thing to the king when they came
before him? A. Yes; one woman said, O my Lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I had
a child there, and this woman had a child also, and this woman's child died in the night. Q.
To whom did the women speak when they said, O my Lord? A. To king Solomon. Q. What did the
woman mean when she said, we dwell in one house? A. She meant that they both lived in it. Q.
Did the woman say any thing more to the king? A. Yes; she said the other woman rose at midnight,
and took her son from her. Q. What is meant by midnight? A. Twelve o'clock, or the middle of
the night. Q. What did the other woman say in her defence? A. She said the live child was hers,
and the other said it is mine; this they spake before the king. Q. When the king heard what
the women had to say, what did he do? A. He said bring me a sword; and they brought a sword
before the king. Q. Did the king do any thing with the sword? A. No; he said, divide the child
in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other. Q. What did the women say to that?
A. One said, O my Lord, give her the living child, and in nowise slay it; but the other said,
let it be neither mine nor thine, but divide it. Q. What took place next? A. The king answered
and said, Give her the living child, and in nowise slay it, she is the mother thereof. Q. What
is meant by slaying? A. To kill any thing. Q. To which woman was the child given? A. To the
woman that said do not hurt it. Q. What is the reason that it was called a wise judgment? A.
Because Solomon took a wise method to find it out. Q. Did the people hear of it? A. Yes, all
Israel heard of it, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him
to do judgment. Q. What is meant by all Israel? A. All the people over whom Solomon was king?
Q. If we want to know any more about Solomon where can we find it? A. In the third chapter
of the first book of Kings.

Incidental Conversation.

Q. Now my little children, as we have been talking about king Solomon, suppose we talk about
our own king; so let me ask you his name? A. King William the Fourth.[A] Q. Why is he called
king? A. Because he is the head man, and the governor of the nation. Q. What does governor
mean? A. One that governs the people, the same as you govern and manage us. Q. Why does the
king wear a crown on his head? A. To denote that he governs from a principle of wisdom, proceeding
from love. Q. Why does he hold a sceptre in his hand? A. To denote that he is powerful, and
that he governs from a principle of truth. Q. What is a crown? A. A thing made of gold overlaid
with a number of diamonds and precious stones, which are very scarce? Q. What is a sceptre?
A. A thing made of gold, and something like an officer's staff. Q. What is an officer? A. A
person who acts in the king's name; and there are various sorts of officers, naval officers,
military officers, and civil officers. Q. What is a naval officer? A. A person who governs
the sailors, and tells them what to do. Q. What is a military officer? A. A person who governs
the soldiers, and tells them what to do. Q. What does a naval officer and his sailors do? A.
Defend us from our enemies on the sea. Q. What does a military officer and his soldiers do?
A. Defend us from our enemies on land. Q. Who do you call enemies? A. Persons that wish to
hurt us and do us harm. Q. What does a civil officer do? A. Defend us from our enemies at home.
Q. What do you mean by enemies at home? A. Thieves, and all bad men and women. Q. Have we any
other enemies besides these? A. Yes, the enemies of our own household, as we may read in the
Bible, and they are the worst of all. Q. What do you mean by the enemies of our own household?
A. Our bad thoughts and bad inclinations. Q. Who protects and defends us from these? A. Almighty
God. Q. Are there any other kind of officers besides these we have mentioned? A. Yes, a great
many more, such as the king's ministers, the noblemen and gentlemen in both houses of parliament,
and the judges of the land. Q. What do the king's ministers do? A. Give the king advice when
he wants it. Q. And what do the noblemen and gentlemen do in both houses of parliament? A.
Make laws to govern us, protect us, and make us happy. Q. After they have made the laws, who
do they take them to? A. To the king. Q. What do they take them to the king for? A. To ask
him if he will be pleased to approve of them. Q. What are laws? A. Good rules for the people
to go by, the same as we have rules in our school to go by. Q. Suppose the people break these
good rules, what is the consequence? A. They are taken before the judges, and afterwards sent
to prison. Q. Who takes them before the judge? A. A constable, and afterwards he takes them
to prison, and there they are locked up and punished. Q. Ought we to love the king? A. Yes,
and respect his officers. Q. Do you suppose the king ever prays to God? A. Yes, every day.
Q. What does he pray for? A. That God would be pleased to make him a wise and good man, so
that he may make all his people happy. Q. What do the Scriptures say about the king? A. They
say that we are to fear God and honour the king. Q. Who was the wisest king? A. King Solomon.
Q. How did he become the wisest king? A. He asked God to give him wisdom to govern his kingdom
well; and God granted his request. Q. Will God give our king wisdom? A. Yes, he will give him
what is best for him. Q. What is the best book to learn wisdom from? A. The Bible. Q. Is the
queen mentioned in the Bible? A. Yes; it is said queens shall be thy nursing mothers. Q. Who
came to Solomon besides the two women? A. The queen of Sheba, she came to ask him questions.
Q. When he answered her questions what happened? A. The queen was so much delighted with his
wisdom, that she gave him a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and spices in abundance. Q.
How much is one talent of gold worth? A. Five thousand, four hundred, and seventy-five sovereigns.
Q. Did she give him anything more? A. Yes, she gave him precious stones. Q. What are precious
stones? A. Diamonds, jasper, sapphire, chalcedony, emerald, sardonyx, sardius, chrysolite,
beryl, topaz, chrysoprasus, jacinth, amethyst. Q. Did king Solomon give the queen of Sheba
anything? A. Yes, he gave her whatsoever she desired, besides that which she brought with her.
Q. Where did she go? A. She went away to her own land. Q. What part of the Bible is this? A.
The ninth chapter of the second book of Chronicles, Master. The queen is mentioned in other
places in the Bible, and another day I will tell in what parts.

[Footnote A: This lesson was written in the life time of our late sovereign. It can easily
be applied by the judicious teacher, and made to bear upon present circumstances, and I earnestly
hope that her present gracious Majesty may become patroness of infant education. Not infant
education travestied, but the thing itself.]

THE NATIVITY OF JESUS CHRIST.

The picture being suspended as the others, and a whole class being in the class-room, put the
pointer into one of the children's hands, and desire the child to find out the Nativity of
Jesus Christ. The other children will be on the tip-toe of expectation, to see whether the
child makes a mistake; for, should this be the case, they know that one of them will have the
same privilege of trying to find it; should the child happen to touch the wrong picture, the
teacher will have at least a dozen applicants, saying, "Please, sir, may I? Please, sir, may
I?" The teacher having selected the child to make the next trial, say one of the youngest of
the applicants, the child walks round the room with the pointer, and puts it on the right picture;
which will be always known by the other children calling out, "That is the right, that is the
right." To view the child's sparkling eyes, who has found the picture, and to see the pleasure
beaming forth in his countenance, you might imagine that be conceived he had performed one
of the greatest wonders of the age. The children will then proceed to read what is printed
on the picture, which is as follows: "The Nativity of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ;" which
is printed at the top of the picture. A. The time he was born. Q. Where was he born? A. In
Bethlehem of Judea. Q. Where did they lay him? A. In a manger. Q. What is a manger? A. A thing
that horses feed out of. Q. What was the reason they put him there? A. Because there was no
room in the inn. Q. What is an inn? A. A place where persons lodge who are travelling, and
it is like a public house. Q. What do you mean by travelling? When you go from one place to
another; from London into the country, or from the country into London. Q. Is any thing else
to be understood by travelling? A. Yes, we are all travelling. Q. What do you mean by all travelling?
A. We are all going in a good road or else in a bad one. Q. What do you mean by a good road?
A. That which leads to heaven. Q. What will lead us to heaven? A. Praying to God and endeavouring
to keep his commandments, and trying all we can to be good children. Q. Can we make ourselves
good? A. No; we can receive nothing, except it be given us from heaven. Q. What is travelling
in a bad road? A. Being naughty children, and not minding what is said to us; and when we say
bad words, or steal any thing, or take God's name in vain. Q. Where will this road lead to?
A. To eternal misery.

Here we usually give a little advice according to circumstances, taking care always to avoid
long speeches, that will tend to stupify the children. If they appear tired, we stop, but if
not, they repeat the following hymn, which I shall insert in full, as I believe there is nothing
in it that any Christian would object to.

  Hark! the skies with music sound!
  Heavenly glory beams around;
  Christ is born! the angels sing,
  Glory to the new-born King.

  Peace is come, good-will appears,
  Sinners, wipe away your tears;
  God in human flesh to-day
  Humbly in the manger lay.

  Shepherds tending flocks by night,
  Heard the song, and saw the light;
  Took their reeds, and softest strains
  Echo'd through the happy plains.

  Mortals, hail the glorious King
  Richest incense cheerful bring;
  Praise and love Emanuel's name,
  And his boundless grace proclaim.

The hymn being concluded, we put the following questions to the children:

Q. Who was the new-born king? A. Jesus Christ. Q. Who are sinners? A. We, and all men. Q. What
are flocks? A. A number of sheep. Q. What are shepherds? A. Those who take care of the sheep.
Q. What are plains? A. Where the sheep feed. Q. Who are mortals? A. We are mortals. Q. Who
is the glorious king? A. Jesus Christ. Q. What is meant by Emanuel's name? A. Jesus Christ.

Here the teacher can inform the children, that Jesus Christ is called by a variety of names
in the Bible, and can repeat them to the children if he thinks proper; for every correct idea
respecting the Saviour which he can instil into their minds will serve as a foundation for
other ideas, and he will find that the more ideas the children have, the more ready they will
be in answering his questions; for man is a progressive being; his capacity for progression
is his grand distinction above the brutes.

LAZARUS RAISED FROM THE DEAD.

The picture being suspended as before described, we proceed thus:--

Q. What is this? A. Jesus Christ raising Lazarus from the dead. Q. Who was Lazarus? A. A man
who lived in a town called Bethany, and a friend of Christ's. Q. What is a town? A. A place
where there are a great number of houses, and persons living in them. Q. What do you mean by
a friend? A. A person that loves you, and does all the good he can for you, to whom you ought
to do the same in return. Q. Did Jesus love Lazarus? A. Yes, and his sisters, Martha and Mary.
Q. Who was it that sent unto Jesus Christ, and told him that Lazarus was sick? A. Martha and
Mary. Q. What did they say? A. They said, Lord, behold he whom thou lovest is sick. Q. What
answer did Jesus make unto them? A. He said, this sickness is not unto death, but for the glory
of God. Q. What did he mean by saying so? A. He meant that Lazarus should be raised again by
the power of God, and that the people that stood by should see it, and believe on him. Q. How
many days did Jesus stop where he was when he found Lazarus was sick? A. Two days. Q. When
Jesus Christ wanted to leave the place, what did he say to his disciples? A. He said, let us
go into Judea again. Q. What do you mean by Judea? A. A country where the Jews lived. Q. Did
the disciples say any thing to Jesus Christ, when he expressed a wish to go into Judea again?
Q. What did Jesus Christ tell them? A. He told them a great many things, and at last told them
plainly that Lazarus was dead. Q. How many days had Lazarus lain in the grave before he was
raised up? A. Four. Q. Who went to meet Jesus Christ, when she heard that he was coming? A.
Martha; but Mary sat still in the house. Q. Did Martha say anything to Jesus when she met him?
A. Yes, she said, Lord, if thou hadst been here my brother had not died. Q. Did Martha tell
her sister that Jesus Christ was come? A. Yes; she said, the Master is come, and calleth for
thee. Q. Did Mary go to meet Jesus Christ? A. Yes; and when she saw him, she fell down at his
feet, and said, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. Q. Did Mary weep? A.
Yes, and the Jews that were with her. Q. What is weeping? A. To cry. Q. Did Jesus weep? A.
Yes; and the Jews said, Behold, how he loved him. Q. Did the Jews say any thing else? A. Yes;
they said, Could not this man that opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this
man should not have died? Q. What took place next? A. He went to the grave, and told the persons
that stood by to take away the stone. Q. And when they took away the stone, what did Jesus
Christ do? Q. If we wanted any more information about Lazarus and his sisters, where should
we find it? A. In the Bible. Q. What part? A. The eleventh and twelfth chapters of John.

I have had children at the early age of four years, ask me questions that I could not possibly
answer; and among other things, the children have said, when being examined at this picture,
"That if Jesus Christ had cried, softly, Lazarus, come forth, he would have come."--And when
asked, why they thought so, they have answered, "Because God can do anything;" which is a convincing
proof that children, at a very early age, have an idea of the Omnipotence of the Supreme Being.
Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness to the children of men!

PICTURE OF THE LAST SUPPER.

Q. What is this? A. A picture of the Last Supper. Q. What do you mean by the last supper? A.
A sacrament instituted by Jesus Christ himself. Q. What do you understand by a sacrament? A.
There are two sacraments, baptism and the holy supper, and they are both observed by true Christians.
Q. We will speak about baptism presently, but as we have the picture of the holy supper before
as, let me ask if it is called by any other name? Q. What took place next? A. He took the cup,
and when he had given thanks, he gave it them, saying, This is my blood, the blood of the New
Testament, which is shed for many. Q. Did Jesus command this ordinance to be observed by his
people? A. Yes; he said in another place, This do in remembrance of me (Luke xxii. 19). Q.
What ought those persons to remember who do this? A. They should remember that Jesus Christ
died on the cross to save sinners. Q. Is any thing else to be understood by the sacrament of
the Lord's supper? A. Yes, a great deal more. Q. Explain some of it. A. When they drink the
wine, they should recollect that they ought to receive the truth of God into their understandings.
Q. What will be the effect of receiving the truth of God into our understandings? A. It will
expel or drive out all falsehood. Q. What ought they to recollect when they eat the bread?
A. They should recollect that they receive the love of God into their wills and affections.
Q. What will be the effect of this? A. It will drive out all bad passions and evil desires;
for it is said, he that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me and I in him
(John vi. 27). Q. Is any thing more to be understood by these things? A. Much more, which we
must endeavour to learn when we get older. Q. How will you learn this? A. By reading the Bible
and going to a place of worship.[A]

