"Ah, the gipsy thief," said Joceline, "how well she scented there was food in the pantry!--they
have noses like ravens, these strollers. Look you, Mistress Alice, you shall not see a raven
or a carrion-crow in all the blue sky for a mile round you; but let a sheep drop suddenly down
on the green-sward, and before the poor creature's dead you shall see a dozen of such guests
croaking, as if inviting each other to the banquet.--Just so it is with these sturdy beggars.
You will see few enough of them when there's nothing to give, but when hough's in the pot,
they will have share on't."

"You are so proud of your fresh supply of provender," said Alice, "that you suspect all of
a design on't. I do not think this woman will venture near your kitchen, Joceline."

"It will be best for her health," said Joceline, "lest I give her a ducking for digestion.--But
give me the pitcher, Mistress Alice--meeter I bear it than you.--How now? what jingles at the
bottom? have you lifted the pebbles as well as the water?"

"I think the woman dropped something into the pitcher," said Alice.

"Nay, we must look to that, for it is like to be a charm, and we have enough of the devil's
ware about Woodstock already--we will not spare for the water--I can run back and fill the
pitcher." He poured out the water upon the grass, and at the bottom of the pitcher was found
a gold ring, in which was set a ruby, apparently of some value.

"Nay, if this be not enchantment, I know not what is," said Joceline. "Truly, Mistress Alice,
I think you had better throw away this gimcrack. Such gifts from such hands are a kind of press-money
which the devil uses for enlisting his regiment of witches; and if they take but so much as
a bean from him, they become his bond-slaves for life--Ay, you look at the gew-gaw, but to-morrow
you will find a lead ring, and a common pebble in its stead."

"Nay, Joceline, I think it will be better to find out that dark-complexioned woman, and return
to her what seems of some value. So, cause enquiry to be made, and be sure you return her ring.
It seems too valuable to be destroyed."

"Umph! that is always the way with women," murmured Joceline. "You will never get the best
of them, but she is willing to save a bit of finery.--Well, Mistress Alice, I trust that you
are too young and too pretty to be enlisted in a regiment of witches."

"I shall not be afraid of it till you turn conjuror," said Alice; "so hasten to the well, where
you are like still to find the woman, and let her know that Alice Lee desires none of her gifts,
any more than she did of her society."

So saying, the young lady pursued her way to the Lodge, while Joceline went down to Rosamond's
Well to execute her commission. But the fortune-teller, or whoever she might be, was nowhere
to be found; neither, finding that to be the case, did Joceline give himself much trouble in
tracking her farther.

"If this ring, which I dare say the jade stole somewhere," said the underkeeper to himself,
"be worth a few nobles, it is better in honest hands than in that of vagabonds. My master has
a right to all waifs and strays, and certainly such a ring, in possession of a gipsy, must
be a waif. So I shall confiscate it without scruple, and apply the produce to the support of
Sir Henry's household, which is like to be poor enough. Thank Heaven, my military experience
has taught me how to carry hooks at my finger-ends--that is trooper's law. Yet, hang it, after
all, I had best take it to Mark Everard and ask his advice--I hold him now to be your learned
counsellor in law where Mistress Alice's affairs are concerned, and my learned Doctor, who
shall be nameless, for such as concern Church and State and Sir Henry Lee.--And I'll give them
leave to give mine umbles to the kites and ravens if they find me conferring my confidence
where it is not safe."

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE NINETEENTH.

  Being skilless in these parts, which, to a stranger,
  Unguided and unfriended, often prove
  Rough and inhospitable.
   TWELFTH NIGHT.

There was a little attempt at preparation, now that the dinner hour was arrived, which showed
that, in the opinion of his few but faithful domestics, the good knight had returned in triumph
to his home.

The great tankard, exhibiting in bas-relief the figure of Michael subduing the Arch-enemy,
was placed on the table, and Joceline and Phoebe dutifully attended; the one behind the chair
of Sir Henry, the other to wait upon her young mistress, and both to make out, by formal and
regular observance, the want of a more numerous train.

"A health to King Charles!" said the old knight, handing the massive tankard to his daughter;
"drink it, my love, though it be rebel ale which they have left us. I will pledge thee; for
the toast will excuse the liquor, had Noll himself brewed it."

The young lady touched the goblet with her lip, and returned it to her father, who took a copious
draught.

"I will not say blessing on their hearts," said he; "though I must own they drank good ale."

"No wonder, sir; they come lightly by the malt, and need not spare it," said Joceline.

"Say'st thou?" said the knight; "thou shalt finish the tankard thyself for that very jest's sake."

Nor was his follower slow in doing reason to the royal pledge. He bowed, and replaced the tankard,
saying, after a triumphant glance at the sculpture, "I had a gibe with that same red-coat about
the Saint Michael just now."

"Red-coat--ha! what red-coat?" said the hasty old man. "Do any of these knaves still lurk about
Woodstock?--Quoit him down stairs instantly, Joceline.--Know we not Galloway nags?"

"So please you, he is in some charge here, and will speedily be gone.--It is he--he who had
a rencontre with your honour in the wood."

"Ay, but I paid him off for it in the hall, as you yourself saw.--I was never in better fence
in my life, Joceline. That same steward fellow is not so utterly black-hearted a rogue as the
most of them, Joceline. He fences well--excellent well. I will have thee try a bout in the
hall with him to-morrow, though I think he will be too hard for thee. I know thy strength to
an inch."

He might say this with some truth; for it was Joceline's fashion, when called on, as sometimes
happened, to fence with his patron, just to put forth as much of his strength and skill as
obliged the Knight to contend hard for the victory, which, in the long run, he always contrived
to yield up to him, like a discreet serving-man.

"And what said this roundheaded steward of our great Saint Michael's standing cup?"

"Marry, he scoffed at our good saint, and said he was little better than one of the golden
calves of Bethel. But I told him he should not talk so, until one of their own roundheaded
saints had given the devil as complete a cross-buttock as Saint Michael had given him, as 'tis
carved upon the cup there. I trow that made him silent enough. And then he would know whether
your honour and Mistress Alice, not to mention old Joan and myself, since it is your honour's
pleasure I should take my bed here, were not afraid to sleep in a house that had been so much
disturbed. But I told him we feared no fiends or goblins, having the prayers of the Church
read every evening."

"Joceline," said Alice, interrupting him, "wert thou mad? You know at what risk to ourselves
and the good doctor the performance of that duty takes place."

"Oh, Mistress Alice," said Joceline, a little abashed, "you may be sure I spoke not a word
of the doctor--No, no--I did not let him into the secret that we had such a reverend chaplain.--I
think I know the length of this man's foot. We have had a jollification or so together. He
is hand and glove with me, for as great a fanatic as he is."

"Trust him not too far," said the knight. "Nay, I fear thou hast been imprudent already, and
that it will be unsafe for the good man to come here after nightfall, as is proposed. These
Independents have noses like bloodhounds, and can smell out a loyalist under any disguise."

"If your honour thinks so," said Joceline, "I'll watch for the doctor with good will, and bring
him into the Lodge by the old condemned postern, and so up to this apartment; and sure this
man Tomkins would never presume to come hither; and the doctor may have a bed in Woodstock
Lodge, and he never the wiser; or, if your honour does not think that safe, I can cut his throat
for you, and I would not mind it a pin."

"God forbid!" said the knight. "He is under our roof, and a guest, though not an invited one.--Go,
Joceline; it shall be thy penance, for having given thy tongue too much license, to watch for
the good doctor, and to take care of his safety while he continues with us. An October night
or two in the forest would finish the good man."

"He's more like to finish our October than our October is to finish him," said the keeper;
and withdrew under the encouraging smile of his patron.

He whistled Bevis along with him to share in his watch; and having received exact information
where the clergyman was most likely to be found, assured his master that he would give the
most pointed attention to his safety. When the attendants had withdrawn, having previously
removed the remains of the meal, the old knight, leaning back in his chair, encouraged pleasanter
visions than had of late passed through his imagination, until by degrees he was surprised
by actual slumber; while his daughter, not venturing to move but on tiptoe, took some needle-work,
and bringing it close by the old man's side, employed her fingers on this task, bending her
eyes from time to time on her parent, with the affectionate zeal, if not the effective power,
of a guardian angel. At length, as the light faded away, and night came on, she was about to
order candles to be brought. But, remembering how indifferent a couch Joceline's cottage had
afforded, she could not think of interrupting the first sound and refreshing sleep which her
father had enjoyed, in all probability, for the last two nights and days.

She herself had no other amusement, as she sat facing one of the great oriel windows, the same
by which Wildrake had on a former occasion looked in upon Tomkins and Joceline while at their
compotations, than watching the clouds, which a lazy wind sometimes chased from the broad disk
of the harvest-moon, sometimes permitted to accumulate, and exclude her brightness. There is,
I know not why, something peculiarly pleasing to the imagination, in contemplating the Queen
of Night, when she is wading, as the expression is, among the vapours which she has not power
to dispel, and which on their side are unable entirely to quench her lustre. It is the striking
image of patient virtue, calmly pursuing her path through good report and bad report, having
that excellence in herself which ought to command all admiration, but bedimmed in the eyes
of the world, by suffering, by misfortune, by calumny.

As some such reflections, perhaps, were passing through Alice's imagination, she became sensible,
to her surprise and alarm, that some one had clambered up upon the window, and was looking
into the room. The idea of supernatural fear did not in the slightest degree agitate Alice.
She was too much accustomed to the place and situation; for folk do not see spectres in the
scenes with which they have been familiar from infancy. But danger from maurauders in a disturbed
country was a more formidable subject of apprehension, and the thought armed Alice, who was
naturally high spirited, with such desperate courage, that she snatched a pistol from the wall,
on which some fire-arms hung, and while she screamed to her father to awake, had the presence
of mind to present it at the intruder. She did so the more readily, because she imagined she
recognised in the visage, which she partially saw, the features of the woman whom she had met
with at Rosamond's Well, and which had appeared to her peculiarly harsh and suspicious. Her
father at the same time seized his sword and came forward, while the person at the window,
alarmed at these demonstrations, and endeavouring to descend, missed footing, as had Cavaliero
Wildrake before, and went down to the earth with no small noise. Nor was the reception on the
bosom of our common mother either soft or safe; for, by a most terrific bark and growl, they
heard that Bevis had come up and seized on the party, ere he or she could gain their feet.

"Hold fast, but worry not," said the old knight.--"Alice, thou art the queen of wenches! Stand
fast here till I run down and secure the rascal."

"For God's sake, no, my dearest father!" Alice exclaimed; "Joceline will be up immediately--Hark!--I
hear him."

There was indeed a bustle below, and more than one light danced to and fro in confusion, while
those who bore them called to each other, yet suppressing their voices as they spoke, as men
who would only be heard by those they addressed. The individual who had fallen under the power
of Bevis was most impatient in his situation, and called with least precaution--"Here, Lee,--Forester--take
the dog off, else I must shoot him."

"If thou dost," said Sir Henry, from the window, "I blow thy brains out on the spot. Thieves,
Joceline, thieves! come up and secure this ruffian.--Bevis, hold on!"

"Back, Bevis; down, sir!" cried Joceline. "I am coming, I am coming, Sir Henry--Saint Michael,
I shall go distracted!"

A terrible thought suddenly occurred to Alice; could Joceline have become unfaithful, that
he was calling Bevis off the villain, instead of encouraging the trusty dog to secure him?
Her father, meantime, moved perhaps by some suspicion of the same kind, hastily stepped aside
out of the moonlight, and pulled Alice close to him, so as to be invisible from without, yet
so placed as to hear what should pass. The scuffle between Bevis and his prisoner seemed to
be ended by Joceline's interference, and there was close whispering for an instant, as of people
in consultation.

"All is quiet now," said one voice; "I will up and prepare the way for you." And immediately
a form presented itself on the outside of the window, pushed open the lattice, and sprung into
the parlour. But almost ere his step was upon the floor, certainly before he had obtained any
secure footing, the old knight, who stood ready with his rapier drawn, made a desperate pass,
which bore the intruder to the ground. Joceline, who clambered up next with a dark lantern
in his hand, uttered a dreadful exclamation, when he saw what had happened, crying out, "Lord
in heaven, he has slain his own son!"

"No, no--I tell you no," said the fallen young man, who was indeed young Albert Lee, the only
son of the old knight; "I am not hurt. No noise, on your lives; get lights instantly." At the
same time, he started from the floor as quickly as he could, under the embarrassment of a cloak
and doublet skewered as it were together by the rapier of the old knight, whose pass, most
fortunately, had been diverted from the body of Albert by the interruption of his cloak, the
blade passing right across his back, piercing the clothes, while the hilt coming against his
side with the whole force of the lunge, had borne him to the ground.

Joceline all the while enjoined silence to every one, under the strictest conjurations. "Silence,
as you would long live on earth--silence, as ye would have a place in heaven; be but silent
for a few minutes--all our lives depend on it."

