     "Of love, by which is to be understood the joy man taketh in the
     fruition of any present good, hath been spoken already in the
     first section, chapter seven, under which is contained the love
     men bear to one another or pleasure they take in one another's
     company: and by which nature men are said to be sociable. But
     there is another kind of love which the Greeks call Erôs, and is
     that which we mean when we say that a man is in love: forasmuch
     as this passion cannot be without diversity of sex, it cannot be
     denied but that it participateth of that indefinite love
     mentioned in the former section. But there is a great difference
     betwixt the desire of a man indefinite and the same desire
     limited ad hunc: and this is that love which is the great theme
     of poets: but, notwithstanding their praises, it must be defined
     by the word need: for it is a conception a man hath of his need
     of that one person desired. The cause of this passion is not
     always nor for the most part beauty, or other quality in the
     beloved, unless there be withal hope in the person that loveth:
     which may be gathered from this, that in great difference of
     persons the greater have often fallen in love with the meaner,
     but not contrary. And from hence it is that for the most part
     they have much better fortune in love whose hopes are built on
     something in their person than those that trust to their
     expressions and service; and they that care less than they that
     care more: which not perceiving, many men cast away their
     services as one arrow after another, till, in the end, together
     with their hopes, they lose their wits."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There are some who therefore imagine monarchy to be more
     grievous than democracy, because there is less liberty in that
     than in this. If by liberty they mean an exemption from that
     subjection which is due to the laws, that is, the commands of the
     people; neither in democracy nor in any other state of
     government whatsoever is there any such kind of liberty. If they
     suppose liberty to consist in this, that there be few laws, few
     prohibitions, and those too such that, except they were
     forbidden, there could be no peace; then I deny that there is
     more liberty in democracy than in monarchy; for the one as truly
     consisteth with such a liberty as the other. For although the
     word liberty may in large and ample letters be written over the
     gates of any city whatsoever, yet it is not meant the subjects'
     but the city's liberty; neither can that word with better right
     be inscribed on a city which is governed by the people than that
     which is ruled by a monarch. But when private men or subjects
     demand liberty under the name of liberty, they ask not for
     liberty but domination: which yet for want of understanding they
     little consider. For if every man would grant the same liberty to
     another which he desires for himself, as is commanded by the law
     of nature, that same natural state would return again in which
     all men may by right do all things; which if they knew they would
     abhor, as being worse than all kinds of civil subjection
     whatsoever. But if any man desire to have his single freedom, the
     rest being bound, what does he else demand but to have the
     dominion?"

It may be observed that Hobbes's sentences are by no means very short as far as actual length
goes. He has some on a scale which in strictness is perhaps hardly justifiable. But what may
generally be asserted of them is that the author for the most part is true to that great rule,
of logic and of style alike, which ordains that a single sentence shall be, as far as possible,
the verbal presentation of a single thought, and not the agglomeration and sweeping together
of a whole string and tissue of thoughts. It is noticeable, too, that Hobbes is very sparing
of the adjective--the great resource and delight of flowery and discursive writers. Sometimes,
as in the famous comparison of human life to a race (where, by the way, a slight tendency to
conceit manifests itself, and makes him rather force some of his metaphors), his conciseness
assumes a distinctly epigrammatic form; and it is constantly visible also in his more consecutive
writings.

In the well-known passage on Laughter as "a passion of sudden glory" the writer may be charged
with allowing his fancy too free play; though I, for my part, am inclined to consider the explanation
the most satisfactory yet given of a difficult phenomenon. But the point is the distinctness
with which Hobbes puts this novel and, at first sight, improbable idea, the apt turns and illustrations
(standing at the same time far from the excess of illustration and analogy, by which many writers
of his time would have spun it out into a chapter if not into a treatise), the succinct, forcible,
economical adjustment of the fewest words to the clearest exposition of thought. Perhaps these
things strike the more as they are the more unlike the work in juxtaposition with which one
finds them; nor can it be maintained that Hobbes's style is suitable for all purposes. Admirable
for argument and exposition, it is apt to become bald in narration, and its abundance of clearness,
when translated to less purely intellectual subjects, may even expose it to the charge of being
thin. Such a note as that struck in the Love passage above given is rare, and sets one wondering
whether the dry-as-dust philosopher of Malmesbury, the man who seems to have had hardly any
human frailties except vanity and timidity, had himself felt the bitterness of counting on
expressions and services, the madness of throwing away one effort after another to gain the
favour of the beloved. But it is very seldom that any such suggestion is provoked by remarks
of Hobbes's. His light is almost always dry; and in one sense, though not in another, a little
malignant. Yet nowhere is there to be found a style more absolutely suited, not merely to the
author's intentions but to his performances--a form more exactly married to matter. Nor anywhere
is there to be found a writer who is more independent of others. He may have owed something
to his friend Jonson, in whose Timber there are resemblances to Hobbes; but he certainly owed
nothing, and in all probability lent much, to the Drydens, and Tillotsons, and Temples, who
in the last twenty years of his own life reformed English prose.

CHAPTER X

CAROLINE POETRY

There are few periods of poetical development in English literary history which display, in
a comparatively narrow compass, such well-marked and pervading individuality as the period
of Caroline poetry, beginning, it may be, a little before the accession of Charles I., but
terminating as a producing period almost before the real accession of his son. The poets of
this period, in which but not of which Milton is, are numerous and remarkable, and at the head
of them all stands Robert Herrick.

Very little is really known about Herrick's history. That he was of a family which, distinguished
above the common, but not exactly reaching nobility, had the credit of producing, besides himself,
the indomitable Warden Heyrick of the Collegiate Church of Manchester in his own times, and
the mother of Swift in the times immediately succeeding his, is certain. That he was born in
London in 1591, that he went to Cambridge, that he had a rather stingy guardian, that he associated
to some extent with the tribe of Ben in the literary London of the second decade of the century,
is also certain. At last and rather late he was appointed to a living at Dean Prior in Devonshire,
on the confines of the South Hams and Dartmoor. He did not like it, being of that class of
persons who cannot be happy out of a great town. After the Civil War he was deprived, and his
successor had not the decency (the late Dr. Grosart, constant to his own party, made a very
unsuccessful attempt to defend the delinquent) to pay him the shabby pittance which the intruders
were supposed to furnish to the rightful owners of benefices. At the Restoration he too was
restored, and survived it fifteen years, dying in 1674; but his whole literary fame rests on
work published a quarter of a century before his death, and pretty certainly in great part
written many years earlier.

The poems which then appeared were divided, in the published form, into two classes: they may
be divided, for purposes of poetical criticism, into three. The Hesperides (they are dated
1648, and the Noble Numbers or sacred poems 1647; but both appeared together) consist in the
first place of occasional poems, sometimes amatory, sometimes not; in the second, of personal
epigrams. Of this second class no human being who has any faculty of criticism can say any
good. They are supposed by tradition to have been composed on parishioners: they may be hoped
by charity (which has in this case the support of literary criticism) to be merely literary
exercises--bad imitations of Martial, through Ben Jonson. They are nastier than the nastiest
work of Swift; they are stupider than the stupidest attempts of Davies of Hereford; they are
farther from the author's best than the worst parts of Young's Odes are from the best part
of the Night Thoughts. It is impossible without producing specimens (which God forbid that
any one who has a respect for Herrick, for literature, and for decency, should do) to show
how bad they are. Let it only be said that if the worst epigram of Martial were stripped of
Martial's wit, sense, and literary form, it would be a kind of example of Herrick in this vein.

In his two other veins, but for certain tricks of speech, it is almost impossible to recognise
him for the same man. The secular vigour of the Hesperides, the spiritual vigour of the Noble
Numbers, has rarely been equalled and never surpassed by any other writer. I cannot agree with
Mr. Gosse that Herrick is in any sense "a Pagan." They had in his day shaken off the merely
ascetic temper of the Middle Ages, and had not taken upon them the mere materialism of the
Aufklärung, or the remorseful and satiated attitude of the late eighteenth and nineteenth century.
I believe that the warmest of the Julia poems and the immortal "Litany" were written with the
same integrity of feeling. Here was a man who was grateful to the upper powers for the joys
of life, or who was sorrowful and repentant towards the upper powers when he felt that he had
exceeded in enjoying those joys, but who had no doubt of his gods, and no shame in approaching
them. The last--the absolutely last if we take his death-date--of those poets who have relished
this life heartily, while heartily believing in another, was Robert Herrick. There is not the
slightest reason to suppose that the Hesperides were wholly péchés de jeunesse and the Noble
Numbers wholly pious palinodes. Both simply express, and express in a most vivid and distinct
manner, the alternate or rather varying moods of a man of strong sensibilities, religious as
well as sensual.

Of the religious poems the already-mentioned "Litany," while much the most familiar, is also
far the best. There is nothing in English verse to equal it as an expression of religious fear;
while there is also nothing in English verse to equal the "Thanksgiving," also well known,
as an expression of religious trust. The crystalline simplicity of Herrick's style deprives
his religious poems of that fatal cut-and-dried appearance, that vain repetition of certain
phrases and thoughts, which mars the work of sacred poets generally, and which has led to an
unjustly strong censure being laid on them by critics, so different from each other as Dr.
Johnson and Mr. Matthew Arnold. As the alleged Paganism of some of Herrick's sacred poems exists
only in the imagination of readers, so the alleged insincerity is equally hypothetical, and
can only be supported by the argument (notoriously false to history and to human nature) that
a man who could write the looser Hesperides could not sincerely write the Noble Numbers. Every
student of the lives of other men--every student of his own heart--knows, or should know, that
this is an utter mistake.

Undoubtedly, however, Herrick's most beautiful work is to be found in the profane division,
despite the admixture of the above-mentioned epigrams, the dull foulness of which soils the
most delightful pages to such an extent that, if it were ever allowable to take liberties with
an author's disposition of his own work, it would be allowable and desirable to pick these
ugly weeds out of the garden and stow them away in a rubbish heap of appendix all to themselves.
Some of the best pieces of the Hesperides are even better known than the two well-known Noble
Numbers above quoted. The "Night Piece to Julia," the "Daffodils," the splendid "To Anthea,"
("Bid me to live"), "The Mad Maid's Song" (worthy of the greatest of the generation before
Herrick), the verses to Ben Jonson, those to Electra ("I dare not ask a kiss"), the wonderful
"Burial Piece to Perilla," the "Grace for a Child," the "Corinna Maying" (the chief of a large
division of Herrick's poems which celebrate rustic festivals, superstitions, and folklore generally),
the epitaph on Prudence Baldwin, and many others, are justly included in nearly all selections
of English poetry, and many of them are known by heart to every one who knows any poetry at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I dare not ask a kiss;
      I dare not beg a smile;
    Lest having that or this,
      I might grow proud the while.

    "No, no--the utmost share
      Of my desire shall be
    Only to kiss that air
      That lately kissèd thee."

But Herrick's charm is everywhere--except in the epigrams. It is very rare to find one of the
hundreds of little poems which form his book destitute of the peculiar touch of phrasing, the
eternising influence of style, which characterises the poetry of this particular period so
remarkably. The subject may be the merest trifle, the thought a hackneyed or insignificant
one. But the amber to enshrine the fly is always there in larger or smaller, in clearer or
more clouded, shape. There has often been a certain contempt (connected no doubt with certain
general critical errors as they seem to me, with which I shall deal at the end of this chapter)
flavouring critical notices of Herrick. I do not think that any one who judges poetry as poetry,
who keeps its several kinds apart and does not demand epic graces in lyric, dramatic substance
in an anthologia, could ever feel or hint such a contempt. Whatever Herrick may have been as
a man (of which we know very little, and for which we need care less), he was a most exquisite
and complete poet in his own way, neither was that way one to be lightly spoken of.

Indissolubly connected with Herrick in age, in character, and in the singularly unjust criticism
which has at various times been bestowed on him, is Thomas Carew. His birth-date has been very
differently given as 1587 and (that now preferred) 1598; but he died nearly forty years before
the author of the Hesperides, and nearly ten before the Hesperides themselves were published,
while his own poems were never collected till after his own death. He was of a Gloucestershire
branch of the famous Devonshire family of Carew, Cary, or Cruwys, was of Merton College, Oxford,
and the Temple, travelled, followed the Court, was a disciple of Ben Jonson, and a member of
the learned and accomplished society of Clarendon's earlier days, obtained a place in the household
of Charles I., is said by his friend Hyde to have turned to devotion after a somewhat libertine
life, and died in 1639, before the evil days of triumphant Puritanism, felix opportunitate
mortis. He wrote little, and the scantiness of his production, together with the supposed pains
it cost him, is ridiculed in Suckling's doggerel "Sessions of the Poets." But this reproach
(which Carew shares with Gray, and with not a few others of the most admirable names in literature),
unjust as it is, is less unjust than the general tone of criticism on Carew since. The locus
classicus of depreciation both in regard to him and to Herrick is to be found, as might be
expected, in one of the greatest, and one of the most wilfully capricious and untrustworthy
of English critics, in Hazlitt. I am sorry to say that there can be little hesitation in setting
down the extraordinary misjudgment of the passage in question (it occurs in the sixth Lecture
on Elizabethan Literature), in part, at least, to the fact that Herrick, Carew, and Crashaw,
who are summarily damned in it, were Royalists. If there were any doubt about the matter, it
would be settled by the encomium bestowed in the very same passage on Marvell, who is, no doubt,
as Hazlitt says, a true poet, but who as a poet is but seldom at the highest height of the
authors of "The Litany," "The Rapture," and "The Flaming Heart." Hazlitt, then, while on his
way to tell us that Herrick's two best pieces are some trivial anacreontics about Cupid and
the Bees--things hackneyed through a dozen literatures, and with no recommendation but a borrowed
prettiness--while about, I say, to deny Herrick the spirit of love or wine, and in the same
breath with the dismissal of Crashaw as a "hectic enthusiast," informs us that Carew was "an
elegant Court trifler," and describes his style as a "frequent mixture of the superficial and
commonplace, with far-fetched and improbable conceits."

What Carew really is, and what he may be peremptorily declared to be in opposition even to
such a critic as Hazlitt, is something quite different. He is one of the most perfect masters
of lyrical form in English poetry. He possesses a command of the overlapped heroic couplet,
which for sweep and rush of rhythm cannot be surpassed anywhere. He has, perhaps in a greater
degree than any poet of that time of conceits, the knack of modulating the extravagances of
fancy by the control of reason, so that he never falls into the unbelievableness of Donne,
or Crashaw, or Cleveland. He had a delicacy, when he chose to be delicate, which is quintessential,
and a vigour which is thoroughly manly. Best of all, perhaps, he had the intelligence and the
self-restraint to make all his poems wholes, and not mere congeries of verses. There is always,
both in the scheme of his meaning and the scheme of his metre, a definite plan of rise and
fall, a concerted effect. That these great merits were accompanied by not inconsiderable defects
is true. Carew lacks the dewy freshness, the unstudied grace of Herrick. He is even more frankly
and uncontrolledly sensual, and has paid the usual and inevitable penalty that his best poem,
The Rapture, is, for the most part, unquotable, while another, if he carried out its principles
in this present year of grace, would run him the risk of imprisonment with hard labour. His
largest attempt--the masque called Coelum Britannicum--is heavy. His smaller poems, beautiful
as they are, suffer somewhat from want of variety of subject. There is just so much truth in
Suckling's impertinence that the reader of Carew sometimes catches himself repeating the lines
of Carew's master, "Still to be neat, still to be drest," not indeed in full agreement with
them, but not in exact disagreement. One misses the "wild civility" of Herrick. This acknowledgment,
I trust, will save me from any charge of overvaluing Carew.

A man might, however, be easily tempted to overvalue him, who observes his beauties, and who
sees how, preserving the force, the poetic spell, of the time, he was yet able, without in
the least descending to the correctness of Waller and his followers, to introduce into his
work something also preserving it from the weaknesses and inequalities which deface that of
almost all his contemporaries, and which, as we shall see, make much of the dramatic and poetical
work of 1630-1660 a chaos of slipshod deformity to any one who has the sense of poetical form.
It is an unwearying delight to read and re-read the second of his poems, the "Persuasions to
Love," addressed to a certain A. L. That the sentiment is common enough matters little; the
commonest things in poetry are always the best. But the delicate interchange of the catalectic
and acatalectic dimeter, the wonderful plays and changes of cadence, the opening, as it were,
of fresh stops at the beginning of each new paragraph of the verse, so that the music acquires
a new colour, the felicity of the several phrases, the cunning heightening of the passion as
the poet comes to "Oh! love me then, and now begin it," and the dying fall of the close, make
up to me, at least, most charming pastime. It is not the same kind of pleasure, no doubt, as
that given by such an outburst as Crashaw's, to be mentioned presently, or by such pieces as
the great soliloquies of Shakespere. Any one may say, if he likes to use words which are question-begging,
when not strictly meaningless, that it is not such a "high" kind. But it is a kind, and in
that kind perfect.

Carew's best pieces, besides The Rapture, are the beautiful "Ask me no more," the first stanza
of which is the weakest; the fine couplet poem, "The Cruel Mistress," whose closing distich--

    "Of such a goddess no times leave record,
    That burned the temple where she was adored"--

Dryden conveyed with the wise and unblushing boldness which great poets use; the "Deposition
from love," written in one of those combinations of eights and sixes, the melodious charm of
which seems to have died with the seventeenth century; the song, "He that loves a rosy cheek,"
which, by the unusual morality of its sentiments, has perhaps secured a fame not quite due
to its poetical merits; the epitaph on Lady Mary Villers; the song "Would you know what's soft?"
the song to his inconstant mistress:

    "When thou, poor excommunicate
    From all the joys of love, shalt see
    The full reward, and glorious fate
    Which my strong faith shall purchase me,
    Then curse thine own inconstancy.

    "A fairer hand than thine shall cure
    That heart which thy false oaths did wound;
    And to my soul, a soul more pure
    Than thine, shall by love's hand be bound,
    And both with equal glory crown'd.

    "Then shalt thou weep, entreat, complain
    To Love, as I did once to thee;
    When all thy tears shall be as vain
    As mine were then, for thou shalt be
    Damn'd for thy false apostacy."--

the pleasant pictures of the country houses of Wrest and Saxham; the charming conceit of "Red
and white roses":

    "Read in these roses the sad story
    Of my hard fate and your own glory:
    In the white you may discover
    The paleness of a fainting lover;
    In the red, the flames still feeding
    On my heart with fresh wounds bleeding.
    The white will tell you how I languish,
    And the red express my anguish:
    The white my innocence displaying
    The red my martyrdom betraying.
    The frowns that on your brow resided
    Have those roses thus divided;
    Oh! let your smiles but clear the weather
    And then they both shall grow together."--

and lastly, though it would be easy to extend this already long list of selections from a by
no means extensive collection of poems, the grand elegy on Donne. By this last the reproach
of vain and amatorious trifling which has been so often levelled at Carew is at once thrown
back and blunted. No poem shows so great an influence on the masculine panegyrics with which
Dryden was to enrich the English of the next generation, and few are fuller of noteworthy phrases.

    "Thou shalt yield no precedence, but of time,
    And the blind fate of language, whose tuned chime
    More charms the outward sense: yet thou mayst claim
    From so great disadvantage greater fame.
    Since to the awe of thine imperious wit
    Our troublesome language bends, made only fit
    With her tough thick-ribbed hoops to gird about
    Thy giant fancy, which had proved too stout
    For their soft melting phrases."

And it is the man who could write like this that Hazlitt calls an "elegant Court trifler!"

The third of this great trio of poets, and with them the most remarkable of our whole group,
was Richard Crashaw. He completes Carew and Herrick both in his qualities and (if a kind of
bull may be permitted) in his defects, after a fashion almost unexampled elsewhere and supremely
interesting. Hardly any one of the three could have appeared at any other time, and not one
but is distinguished from the others in the most marked way. Herrick, despite his sometimes
rather obtrusive learning, is emphatically the natural man. He does not show much sign of the
influence of good society, his merits as well as his faults have a singular unpersonal and,
if I may so say, terræfilian connotation. Carew is a gentleman before all; but a rather profane
gentleman. Crashaw is religious everywhere. Again, Herrick and Carew, despite their strong
savour of the fashion of the time, are eminently critics as well as poets. Carew has not let
one piece critically unworthy of him pass his censorship: Herrick (if we exclude the filthy
and foolish epigrams into which he was led by corrupt following of Ben) has been equally careful.
These two bards may have trouble with the censor morum,--the censor literarum they can brave
with perfect confidence. It is otherwise with Crashaw. That he never, as far as can be seen,
edited the bulk of his work for press at all matters little or nothing. But there is not in
his work the slightest sign of the exercise of any critical faculty before, during, or after
production. His masterpiece, one of the most astonishing things in English or any other literature,
comes without warning at the end of The Flaming Heart. For page after page the poet has been
poorly playing on some trifling conceits suggested by the picture of Saint Theresa and a seraph.
First he thinks the painter ought to have changed the attributes; then he doubts whether a
lesser change will not do; and always he treats his subject in a vein of grovelling and grotesque
conceit which the boy Dryden in the stage of his elegy on Lord Hastings would have disdained.
And then in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, without warning of any sort, the metre changes,
the poet's inspiration catches fire, and there rushes up into the heaven of poetry this marvellous
rocket of song:--

    "Live in these conquering leaves: live all the same;
    And walk through all tongues one triumphant flame;
    Live here, great heart; and love, and die, and kill;
    And bleed, and wound, and yield, and conquer still.
    Let this immortal life where'er it comes
    Walk in a crowd of loves and martyrdoms.
    Let mystic deaths wait on't; and wise souls be
    The love-slain witnesses of this life of thee.
    O sweet incendiary! show here thy art,
    Upon this carcase of a hard cold heart;
    Let all thy scatter'd shafts of light, that play
    Among the leaves of thy large books of day,
    Combin'd against this breast at once break in,
    And take away from me myself and sin;
    This gracious robbery shall thy bounty be
    And my best fortunes such fair spoils of me.
    O thou undaunted daughter of desires!
    By all thy pow'r of lights and fires;
    By all the eagle in thee, all the dove;
    By all thy lives and deaths of love;
    By thy large draughts of intellectual day;
    And by thy thirsts of love more large than they;
    By all thy brim-fill'd bowls of fierce desire;
    By thy last morning's draught of liquid fire;
    By the full kingdom of that final kiss
    That seized thy parting soul, and seal'd thee his;
    By all the heavens thou hast in him,
    (Fair sister of the seraphim)
    By all of him we have in thee;
    Leave nothing of myself in me.
    Let me so read thy life, that I
    Unto all life of mine may die."

The contrast is perhaps unique as regards the dead colourlessness of the beginning, and the
splendid colour of the end. But contrasts like it occur all over Crashaw's work.

He was a much younger man than either of the poets with whom we have leashed him, and his birth
year used to be put at 1616, though Dr. Grosart has made it probable that it was three years
earlier. His father was a stern Anglican clergyman of extremely Protestant leanings, his mother
died when Crashaw was young, but his stepmother appears to have been most unnovercal. Crashaw
was educated at Charterhouse, and then went to Cambridge, where in 1637 he became a fellow
of Peterhouse, and came in for the full tide of high church feeling, to which (under the mixed
influence of Laud's policy, of the ascetic practices of the Ferrars of Gidding, and of a great
architectural development afterwards defaced if not destroyed by Puritan brutality) Cambridge
was even more exposed than Oxford. The outbreak of the civil war may or may not have found
Crashaw at Cambridge; he was at any rate deprived of his fellowship for not taking the covenant
in 1643, and driven into exile. Already inclined doctrinally and in matters of practice to
the older communion, and despairing of the resurrection of the Church of England after her
sufferings at the hands of the Parliament, Crashaw joined the Church of Rome, and journeyed
to its metropolis. He was attached to the suit of Cardinal Pallotta, but is said to have been
shocked by Italian manners. The cardinal procured him a canonry at Loretto, and this he hastened
to take up, but died in 1649 with suspicions of poison, which are not impossibly, but at the
same time by no means necessarily true. His poems had already appeared under the double title
of Steps to the Temple (sacred), and Delights of the Muses (profane), but not under his own
editorship, or it would seem with his own choice of title. Several other editions followed,--one
later than his death, with curious illustrations said to be, in part at least, of his own design.
Manuscript sources, as in the case of some other poets of the time, have considerably enlarged
the collection since. But a great part of it consists of epigrams (in the wide sense, and almost
wholly sacred) in the classical tongues, which were sometimes translated by Crashaw himself.
These are not always correct in style or prosody, but are often interesting. The famous line
in reference to the miracle of Cana,

    "Vidit et erubuit nympha pudica Deum,"

is assigned to Crashaw as a boy at Cambridge; of his later faculty in the same way the elaborate
and, in its way, beautiful poem entitled Bulla (the Bubble) is the most remarkable.

Our chief subject, however, is the English poems proper, sacred and profane. In almost all
of these there is noticeable an extraordinary inequality, the same in kind, if not in degree,
as that on which we have commented in the case of The Flaming Heart. Crashaw is never quite
so great as there; but he is often quite as small. His exasperating lack of self-criticism
has sometimes led selectors to make a cento out of his poems--notably in the case of the exceedingly
pretty "Wishes to His Unknown Mistress," beginning, "Whoe'er she be, That not impossible she,
That shall command my heart and me"--a poem, let it be added, which excuses this dubious process
much less than most, inasmuch as nothing in it is positively bad, though it is rather too long.
Here is the opening, preceded by a piece from another poem, "A Hymn to Saint Theresa":--

    "Those rare works, where thou shalt leave writ
    Love's noble history, with wit
    Taught thee by none but him, while here
    They feed our souls, shall clothe thine there
    Each heavenly word by whose hid flame
    Our hard hearts shall strike fire, the same
    Shall flourish on thy brows and be
    Both fire to us and flame to thee:
    Whose light shall live bright, in thy face
    By glory, in our hearts by grace.

    "Thou shalt look round about, and see
    Thousands of crown'd souls throng to be
    Themselves thy crown, sons of thy vows:
    The virgin births with which thy spouse
    Made fruitful thy fair soul; go now
    And with them all about thee, bow
    To Him, 'Put on' (He'll say) 'put on,
    My rosy love, that thy rich zone,
    Sparkling with the sacred flames,
    Of thousand souls whose happy names
    Heaven heaps upon thy score, thy bright
    Life brought them first to kiss the light
    That kindled them to stars.' And so
    Thou with the Lamb thy Lord shall go,
    And whereso'er He sets His white
    Steps, walk with Him those ways of light.
    Which who in death would live to see
    Must learn in life to die like thee."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Whoe'er she be,
    That not impossible she,
    That shall command my heart and me;

    "Where'er she lie,
    Lock'd up from mortal eye,
    In shady leaves of destiny;

    "Till that ripe birth
    Of studied Fate stand forth,
    And teach her fair steps to our earth:

    "Till that divine
    Idea take a shrine
    Of crystal flesh, through which to shine:

    "Meet you her, my wishes
    Bespeak her to my blisses,
    And be ye call'd, my absent kisses."

