The essential problem before the Socialists under State capitalism, with every reform now under
serious discussion already in force, will be fundamentally the same as it is under the private
capitalism of to-day. The capitalists will be even more powerful than they are, the relative
position of the non-capitalists in government and industry still more inferior than it now
is. However, with better health, more means, greater leisure, superior education, with a better
organized and more easily comprehended social system, with the enemy more united and more clearly
defined, Socialists believe that the conditions for the successful solution of this problem
will be far more favorable.

The evolution of industry and government under capitalism sets the problems and furnishes the
conditions necessary for the solution, but the solution, if it comes at all, must come from
the Socialists themselves. I have shown what the Socialists are doing to-day to gain supreme
control over governments. What do they expect to do when they have obtained that power? I have
given little attention to the steps they will probably take at that time because the question
belongs to the future, and has not yet been practically confronted. It is impossible to tell
how any body of men will answer any question until it is before them and they know their answer
must be at once translated into acts. Yet a few concrete statements as to what Socialists expect
and intend for the future--especially in those matters where there is practical unanimity among
them, may be justified, and may help to define their present aims. There are certain matters
where Socialists have as yet had no opportunity to show their position in acts, and yet where
their present activities, supported by their statements, indicate what their course will be.

First, how do Socialists expect to proceed during the transitional period, when they have won
supreme power, but have not yet had time to put any of their more far-reaching principles into
execution? The first of these transitional problems is: What shall be done with those particular
forms of private property or privilege which stand in the way of an economic democracy? How
far shall existing vested rights be compensated?

     "And as for taking such property from the owners," asks Mr. H. G.
     Wells, "why shouldn't we? The world has not only in the past taken
     slaves from their owners, with no compensation or with meager
     compensation; but in the history of mankind, dark as it is, there
     are innumerable cases of slave owners resigning their inhuman
     rights.... There are, no doubt, a number of dull, base, rich people
     who hate and dread Socialism for purely selfish reasons; but it is
     quite possible to be a property owner and yet be anxious to see
     Socialism come into its own.... Though I deny the right to
     compensation, I do not deny its probable advisability. So far as
     the question of method goes it is quite conceivable that we may
     partially compensate the property owners and make all sorts of
     mitigating arrangements to avoid cruelty to them in our attempt to
     end the wider cruelties of to-day."[292]

Socialists are, of course, quite determined that either the vested interests of all persons
dependent on small unearned incomes and unable otherwise to earn their living shall be protected,
or that they shall be equally well provided for by other means. No practical Socialist has
ever proposed, during this transitional period, to interfere in any way either with savings
bank accounts or with life insurance policies on a reasonable scale, or with widows and orphans
who are using incomes from very small pieces of property for identical purposes.

