"Tais-toi, Louise," exclaimed the landlady of a small but neat auberge at ------ to her daughter,
a sweet child, about seven years of age, who, playing with a little curly French dog, was sitting
on a three-legged stool, humming a trifling chanson which she had gleaned from a collection
of ditties pertaining to an old woman, who, when the landlady might be busily engaged, attended
the infant steps and movements of Louise. "Tais-toi, ecoutez, la diligence s'approche;" the
truth of the good woman's remark being vouched for by the heavy rumbling of that ponderous
machine, the "Vite, vite" of the postilion, and the "crack, crack" of his huge whip. This was
shortly after the battle of Waterloo, when our troops, crowned with laurels, were hastily leaving
the continent, burning with anxiety to revisit their native soil, and their countrymen of the
peace department were as hastily leaving it, fired with curiosity to behold the spot where
such laurels had been so hardly earned. At least such was undoubtedly the most prevalent cause
of the great influx of continental visiters at that period; but there were, by way of contrast
to these votaries of curiosity, too many whose contracted brow and thoughtful melancholy cast
of visage betrayed forcibly their owners' curiosity to be otherwise and more feelingly worked
upon; 'twas the anxiety, the wish to gather information respecting relatives or friends, killed
or wounded in the late dire struggle, which had caused those appearances. But to my subject.
'Twas at the close of a very hot July day that the diligence drew up to the door of the before-mentioned
auberge. "A diner," as the postilion (nearly smothered in his tremendous "bottes fortes," genteelly
taking from his head a hat almost as small as the boots were in comparison large) was politely
pleased to term it. No pressing invitation was requisite to incline our English travellers
to take their seats around the table well arranged with French fare, and fatigue seemed to
lose itself in the exhilaration proceeding from the chablis, champagne, and chambertin; but
there was one traveller, whose melancholy defied eradication--an English lady, genteelly but
plainly habited, to appearance about seven and twenty years of age; her features handsome and
strongly marked; when in health of mind and body, they might have possessed the "besoin du
souci," habitual to the country in which she was then travelling, but were now too deeply clouded
with that "apparence de la misère," to which the English seem alone to give fullness of effect--a
fault, perhaps, but a sentimental one, worthy of that or any other country. She had with her
a beautiful boy, whose age might be about five, who, attracted partly by the pretty appearance
of the dog, by signs and childish frolics, soon formed acquaintance with the hostess's daughter,
the little Louise. For some time previous to the arrival of the diligence at the auberge, a
storm had been expected; and the distant thunder and heavy drops of rain beating against the
casements before the dinner was half over, gave appearance of justice and reason to the entertainment
of such anticipations, and caused a general congratulation at the party being so safely housed.
As the storm was increasing every minute, much argument was not necessary to induce the postilion
to delay proceeding until it might abate. Some of the party adhered to the bottle, some resorted
to a book, and some to cards, to wile away the time. The lady requested to be conducted to
a private apartment, wherein to pass with her dear child (remote from the noisy mirth of her
companions, so little according with her then feelings) the time, until the diligence might
again be ready to start. But half an hour had scarce elapsed from the formation of this arrangement
ere admission was sought and gained by a brigade of English soldiers, six of whom, on a support
formed by muskets, bore what seemed to be the corpse of an officer, whose arm, hanging down,
gave to another officer the hand. Such a scene soon attracted general attention. In a few minutes
a couch, by the junction of two or three chairs, was made, and on that the body laid. The soldiers
who had formed the support, with arms grounded and grief deeply marked on their countenances,
presented a melancholy group; whilst the young officer, kneeling by the couch, and gazing intently
on his friend, but served to heighten the melancholy of the scene. A long silence of anxiety,
interrupted but by the rolling of the thunder and the pattering of the rain, ensued. "'Tis
no use," at length exclaimed the friend of the wounded man, "'tis now no use even to hope,
my brave fellows; the surgeon was deceived, and rash to consent to his removal. Your commander
has sunk beneath the fatigue. I thought it would be so. Peace," he exclaimed, as the tears
fell fast from his eyes, "peace to thy manes, brave, generous St. Clair." An agonizing shriek
from above startled all; and in another moment the lady (the traveller in the diligence) fell
on what appeared to be the soldier's bier. "Heavens! what dream is this?" exclaimed the officer
who had been so assiduous in his attention to the unfortunate man; "my sister here!--let me
intreat, let me beg--" "No, Albert Fitzalleyn--no, brother, no," uttered Mrs. St. Clair, "remove
me not--I am calm, resigned, very, very calm--I expected this--if I cannot live I can die with
him. St. Clair, awake--your wife, your Charlotte calls--what not one smile?--look here," she
cried, pulling the frightened, trembling, weeping child towards the body, "your child, your
boy, your dearest Edward calls for you too. O, agony! he does not move. Dead! no, no, it cannot
be--my life, my love, my husband." And there was something, it did seem, in that sweet voice
which reached the dying warrior's heart, for he opened those eyes already partly glazed with
the film of death, and if in them expression remained, it beamed on his afflicted wife. Reason
and strength too returned, but their dominion was momentary, for with one hand feebly grasping
that of his wife, his other resting on the head of his dear boy, and his sunken eyes directed
from the one to the other, the brave, the respected, the beloved St. Clair died! He sank on
the rough, uncouth couch, and with him the senseless form of his fond wife. The stillness of
the corpse scarcely surpassed that which for a time was reigning over the group assembled there;
at length the brother gently raised the wretched widow from her sad resting-place; but the
fair sufferer was released from all earthly pain; with her husband she could not live, but
she indeed with him had died! Their son, Edward St. Clair, is in existence, living with, and
beloved by, his uncle, Albert Fitzalleyn,

THE PAINTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMEO COATES.

What was Kemble, Cooke, Kean, or Young, to the celebrated Diamond Coates, who, about twenty
years since, shared with little Betty the admiration of the town? Never shall I forget his
representation of Lothario at the Haymarket Theatre, for his own pleasure, as he accurately
termed it; and certainly the then rising fame of Liston was greatly endangered by his Barbadoes
rival. Never had Garrick or Kemble, in their best times, so largely excited the public attention
and curiosity. The very remotest nooks of the galleries were filled by fashion, while in a
stage-box sat the performer's notorious friend, the Baron Ferdinand Geramb.

Coates's lean Quixotic form, being duly clothed in velvets and in silks, and his bonnet richly
fraught with diamonds, (whence his appellation,) his entrance on the stage was greeted by such
a general crowing, (in allusion to the large cocks, which as his crest adorned his harness,)
that the angry and affronted Lothario drew his sword upon the audience, and actually challenged
the rude and boisterous inhabitants of the galleries, seriatim, or en masse, to combat on the
stage. Solemn silence, as the consequence of mock fear, immediately succeeded. The great actor,
after the overture had ceased, amused himself for some time with the baron, ere he condescended
to indulge the wishes of an anxiously expectant audience. At length he commenced; his appeals
to his heart were made by an application of the left hand so disproportionably lower than the
"seat of life" has been supposed to be placed; his contracted pronunciation of the word "breach,"
and other new readings and actings, kept the house in a right joyous humour, until the climax
of all mirth was attained by the dying scene of "the gallant and the gay;" but who shall describe
the prolonged agonies of the dark seducer! his platted hair escaping from the comb that held
it, and the dark crineous cordage that flapped upon his shoulders in the convulsions of his
dying moments, and the cries of the people for medical aid to accomplish his eternal exit.
Then, when in his last throes his bonnet fell, it was miraculous to see the defunct arise,
and after he had spread a nice handkerchief on the stage, and there deposited his head-dress,
free from impurity, philosophically resume his dead condition; but it was not yet over, for
the exigent audience, not content "that when the man were dead, why there an end," insisted
on a repetition of the awful scene, which the highly flattered corpse executed three several
times to the gratification of the cruel and torment-loving assembly.

Coates, too, was destined to participate somewhat in the celebrated fête in honour of the Bourbons
in 1811. Having no opportunity of learning in the West Indies the propriety of being presented
at court, ere he could be upon a more intimate footing with the prince, he was less astonished
than delighted at the reception of an invitation on that occasion to Carlton house. What was
the fame acquired by his cockleshell curricle, (by the way, the very neatest thing seen in
London before or since;) his scenic reputation; all the applause attending the perfection of
histrionic art; the flatteries of Billy Finch, (a sort of kidnapper of juvenile actors and
actresses, of the O. P. and P. S. in Russell-court;) the sanction of a Petersham; the intimacy
of a Barrymore; even the polite endurance of a Skeffington to this! To be classed with the
proud, the noble, and the great. It seemed a natural query, whether the Bourbon's name were
not a pretext for his own introduction to royalty, under circumstances of unprecedented splendour
and magnificence. It must have been so. What cogitations respecting dress, and air, and port,
and bearing! What torturing of the confounded lanky locks, to make them but revolve ever so
little! then the rich cut velvet--the diamond buttons--ay, every one was composed of brilliants!
The night arrived: ushered by well-rigged watchmen to clear the way, the honoured sedan bore
its precious burthen to the palace, and the glittering load was deposited in the royal vestibule
itself. Alas! what confusion, horror, and dismay were there, when the ticket was pronounced
a forgery! All that the considerate politeness of a Bloomfield or a Turner might effect was
done to alleviate the fatal disappointment. The case was even reported instanter to the prince
himself; but etiquette was amongst the other "restrictions" imposed upon his royal highness;
and, however tempered by compliment and excuse, "the diamonds blaze" reached not farther than
the hall, and were destined to waste their splendour, for the remainder of the night, in the
limited apartments of Craven-street.

New Monthly Magazine.

