Another.--I am studying the stars, under advantages, as I cross tonight. (It is late in February,
and again extra clear.) High toward the west, the Pleiades, tremulous with delicate sparkle,
in the soft heavens,--Aldebaran, leading the V-shaped Hyades--and overhead Capella and her
kids. Most majestic of all, in full display in the high south, Orion, vast-spread, roomy, chief
historian of the stage, with his shiny yellow rosette on his shoulder, and his three kings--and
a little to the east, Sirius, calmly arrogant, most wondrous single star. Going late ashore,
(I couldn't give up the beauty, and soothingness of the night,) as I staid around, or slowly
wander'd I heard the echoing calls of the railroad men in the West Jersey depot yard, shifting
and switching trains, engines, etc.; amid the general silence otherways, and something in the
acoustic quality of the air, musical, emotional effects, never thought of before. I linger'd
long and long, listening to them.

Night of March 18, '79.--One of the calm, pleasantly cool, exquisitely clear and cloudless,
early spring nights--the atmosphere again that rare vitreous blue-black, welcom'd by astronomers.
Just at 8, evening, the scene overhead of certainly solemnest beauty, never surpass'd. Venus
nearly down in the west, of a size and lustre as if trying to outshow herself, before departing.
Teeming, maternal orb--I take you again to myself.

With departing Venus, large to the last, and shining even to the edge of the horizon, the vast
dome presents at this moment, such a spectacle! Mercury was visible just after sunset--a rare
sight. Arcturus is now risen, just north of east. In calm glory all the stars of Orion hold
the place of honor, in meridian, to the south,--with the Dog-star a little to the left. And
now, just rising, Spica, late, low, and slightly veil'd. Castor, Regulus and the rest, all
shining unusually clear, (no Mars or Jupiter or moon till morning.) On the edge of the river,
many lamps twinkling--with two or three huge chimneys, a couple of miles up, belching forth
molten, steady flames, volcano-like, illuminating all around--and sometimes an electric or
calcium, its Dante-Inferno gleams, in far shafts, terrible, ghastly-powerful. Of later May
nights, crossing, I like to watch the fishermen's little buoy-lights--so pretty, so dreamy--like
corpse candles--undulating delicate and lonesome on the surface of the shadowy waters, floating
with the current.

THE FIRST SPRING DAY ON CHESTNUT STREET

Winter relaxing its hold, has already allow'd us a foretaste of spring. As I write, yesterday
afternoon's softness and brightness, (after the morning fog, which gave it a better setting,
by contrast,) show'd Chestnut street--say between Broad and Fourth--to more advantage in its
various asides, and all its stores, and gay-dress'd crowds generally, than for three months
past. I took a walk there between one and two. Doubtless, there were plenty of hard-up folks
along the pavements, but nine-tenths of the myriad-moving human panorama to all appearance
seem'd flush, well-fed, and fully-provided. At all events it was good to be on Chestnut street
yesterday. The peddlers on the sidewalk--("sleeve-buttons, three for five cents")--the handsome
little fellow with canary-bird whistles--the cane men, toy men, toothpick men--the old woman
squatted in a heap on the cold stone flags, with her basket of matches, pins and tape--the
young negro mother, sitting, begging, with her two little coffee-color'd twins on her lap--the
beauty of the cramm'd conservatory of rare flowers, flaunting reds, yellows, snowy lilies,
incredible orchids, at the Baldwin mansion near Twelfth street-- the show of fine poultry,
beef, fish, at the restaurants--the china stores, with glass and statuettes--the luscious tropical
fruits--the street cars plodding along, with their tintinnabulating bells--the fat, cab-looking,
rapidly driven one-horse vehicles of the post-office, squeez'd full of coming or going letter-carriers,
so healthy and handsome and manly-looking, in their gray uniforms--the costly books, pictures,
curiosities, in the windows--the gigantic policemen at most of the corners will all be readily
remember'd and recognized as features of this principal avenue of Philadelphia. Chestnut street,
I have discover'd, is not without individuality, and its own points, even when compared with
the great promenade-streets of other cities. I have never been in Europe, but acquired years'
familiar experience with New York's, (perhaps the world's) great thoroughfare, Broadway, and
possess to some extent a personal and saunterer's knowledge of St. Charles street in New Orleans,
Tremont street in Boston, and the broad trottoirs of Pennsylvania avenue in Washington.

A few days ago one of the six-story clothing stores along here had the space inside its plate-glass
show-window partition'd into a little corral, and litter'd deeply with rich clover and hay,
(I could smell the odor outside,) on which reposed two magnificent fat sheep, full-sized but
young--the handsomest creatures of the kind I ever saw. I stop's long and long, with the crowd,
to view them--one lying down chewing the cud, and one standing up, looking out, with dense-fringed
patient eyes. Their wool, of a clear tawny color, with streaks of glistening black--altogether
a queer sight amidst that crowded promenade of dandies, dollars and dry-goods.

UP THE HUDSON TO ULSTER COUNTY

April 23.--Off to New York on a little tour and visit. Leaving the hospitable, home-like quarters
of my valued friends, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Johnston--took the 4 P. M. boat, bound up the Hudson,
100 miles or so. Sunset and evening fine. Especially enjoy'd the hour after we passed Cozzens's
landing--the night lit by the crescent moon and Venus, now swimming in tender glory, and now
hid by the high rocks and hills of the western shore, which we hugg'd close. (Where I spend
the next ten days is in Ulster county and its neighborhood, with frequent morning and evening
drives, observations of the river, and short rambles.)

April 24--Noon.--A little more and the sun would be oppressive. The bees are out gathering
their bread from willows and other trees. I watch them returning, darting through the air or
lighting on the hives, their thighs covered with the yellow forage. A solitary robin sings
near. I sit in my shirt sleeves and gaze from an open bay-window on the indolent scene--the
thin haze, the Fishkill hills in the distance--off on the river, a sloop with slanting mainsail,
and two or three little shad-boats. Over on the railroad opposite, long freight trains, sometimes
weighted by cylinder-tanks of petroleum, thirty, forty, fifty cars in a string, panting and
rumbling along in full view, but the sound soften'd by distance.

DAYS AT J. B.'S TURF-FIRES--SPRING SONGS

April 26.--At sunrise, the pure clear sound of the meadow lark. An hour later, some notes,
few and simple, yet delicious and perfect, from the bush-sparrow-towards noon the reedy trill
of the robin. To-day is the fairest, sweetest yet--penetrating warmth--a lovely veil in the
air, partly heat-vapor and partly from the turf-fires everywhere in patches on the farms. A
group of soft maples near by silently bursts out in crimson tips, buzzing all day with busy
bees. The white sails of sloops and schooners glide up and down the river; and long trains
of cars, with ponderous roll, or faint bell notes, almost constantly on the opposite shore.
The earliest wild flowers in the woods and fields, spicy arbutus, blue liverwort, frail anemone,
and the pretty white blossoms of the bloodroot. I launch out in slow rambles, discovering them.
As I go along the roads I like to see the farmers' fires in patches, burning the dry brush,
turf, debris. How the smoke crawls along, flat to the ground, slanting, slowly rising, reaching
away, and at last dissipating. I like its acrid smell--whiffs just reaching me--welcomer than
French perfume.

The birds are plenty; of any sort, or of two or three sorts, curiously, not a sign, till suddenly
some warm, gushing, sunny April (or even March) day--lo! there they are, from twig to twig,
or fence to fence, flirting, singing, some mating, preparing to build. But most of them en
passant--a fortnight, a month in these parts, and then away. As in all phases, Nature keeps
up her vital, copious, eternal procession. Still, plenty of the birds hang around all or most
of the season--now their love-time, and era of nest-building. I find flying over the river,
crows, gulls and hawks. I hear the afternoon shriek of the latter, darting about, preparing
to nest. The oriole will soon be heard here, and the twanging meoeow of the cat-bird; also
the king-bird, cuckoo and the warblers. All along, there are three peculiarly characteristic
spring songs--the meadow-lark's, so sweet, so alert and remonstrating (as if he said, "don't
you see?" or, "can't you understand?")--the cheery, mellow, human tones of the robin--(I have
been trying for years to get a brief term, or phrase, that would identify and describe that
robin call)--and the amorous whistle of the high-hole. Insects are out plentifully at midday.

April 29.--As we drove lingering along the road we heard, just after sundown, the song of the
wood-thrush. We stopp'd without a word, and listen'd long. The delicious notes--a sweet, artless,
voluntary, simple anthem, as from the flute-stops of some organ, wafted through the twilight--echoing
well to us from the perpendicular high rock, where, in some thick young trees' recesses at
the base, sat the bird --fill'd our senses, our souls.

MEETING A HERMIT

I found in one of my rambles up the hills a real hermit, living in a lonesome spot, hard to
get at, rocky, the view fine, with a little patch of land two rods square. A man of youngish
middle age, city born and raised, had been to school, had travel'd in Europe and California.
I first met him once or twice on the road, and pass'd the time of day, with some small talk;
then, the third time, he ask'd me to go along a bit and rest in his hut (an almost unprecedented
compliment, as I heard from others afterwards.) He was of Quaker stock, I think; talk'd with
ease and moderate freedom, but did not unbosom his life, or story, or tragedy, or whatever it was.

AN ULSTER COUNTY WATERFALL

I jot this mem, in a wild scene of woods and hills, where we have come to visit a waterfall.
I never saw finer or more copious hemlocks, many of them large, some old and hoary. Such a
sentiment to them, secretive, shaggy--what I call weather-beaten and let-alone--a rich underlay
of ferns, yew sprouts and mosses, beginning to be spotted with the early summer wild-flowers.
Enveloping all, the monotone and liquid gurgle from the hoarse impetuous copious fall--the
greenish- tawny, darkly transparent waters, plunging with velocity down the rocks, with patches
of milk-white foam--a stream of hurrying amber, thirty feet wide, risen far back in the hills
and woods, now rushing with volume--every hundred rods a fall, and sometimes three or four
in that distance. A primitive forest, druidical, solitary and savage--not ten visitors a year--broken
rocks everywhere--shade overhead, thick underfoot with leaves--a just palpable wild and delicate
aroma.

WALTER DUMONT AND HIS MEDAL

As I saunter'd along the high road yesterday, I stopp'd to watch a man near by, ploughing a
rough stony field with a yoke of oxen. Usually there is much geeing and hawing, excitement,
and continual noise and expletives, about a job of this kind. But I noticed how different,
how easy and wordless, yet firm and sufficient, the work of this young ploughman. His name
was Walter Dumont, a farmer, and son of a farmer, working for their living. Three years ago,
when the steamer "Sunnyside" was wreck'd of a bitter icy night on the west bank here, Walter
went out in his boat--was the first man on hand with assistance--made a way through the ice
to shore, connected a line, perform'd work of first-class readiness, daring, danger, and saved
numerous lives. Some weeks after, one evening when he was up at Esopus, among the usual loafing
crowd at the country store and post-office, there arrived the gift of an unexpected official
gold medal for the quiet hero. The impromptu presentation was made to him on the spot, but
he blush'd, hesitated as he took it, and had nothing to say.

HUDSON RIVER SIGHTS

It was a happy thought to build the Hudson river railroad right along the shore. The grade
is already made by nature; you are sure of ventilation one side--and you are in nobody's way.
I see, hear, the locomotives and cars, rumbling, roaring, flaming, smoking, constantly, away
off there, night and day--less than a mile distant, and in full view by day. I like both sight
and sound. Express trains thunder and lighten along; of freight trains, most of them very long,
there cannot be less than a hundred a day. At night far down you see the headlight approaching,
coming steadily on like a meteor. The river at night has its special character-beauties. The
shad fishermen go forth in their boats and pay out their nets--one sitting forward, rowing,
and one standing up aft dropping it properly-marking the line with little floats bearing candles,
conveying, as they glide over the water, an indescribable sentiment and doubled brightness.
I like to watch the tows at night, too, with their twinkling lamps, and hear the husky panting
of the steamers; or catch the sloops' and schooners' shadowy forms, like phantoms, white, silent,
indefinite, out there. Then the Hudson of a clear moonlight night.

But there is one sight the very grandest. Sometimes in the fiercest driving storm of wind,
rain, hail or snow, a great eagle will appear over the river, now soaring with steady and now
overbended wings --always confronting the gale, or perhaps cleaving into, or at times literally
sitting upon it. It is like reading some first-class natural tragedy or epic, or hearing martial
trumpets. The splendid bird enjoys the hubbub--is adjusted and equal to it--finishes it so
artistically. His pinions just oscillating--the position of his head and neck--his resistless,
occasionally varied flight--now a swirl, now an upward movement--the black clouds driving--the
angry wash below--the hiss of rain, the wind's piping (perhaps the ice colliding, grunting)--he
tacking or jibing--now, as it were, for a change, abandoning himself to the gale, moving with
it with such velocity--and now, resuming control, he comes up against it, lord of the situation
and the storm--lord, amid it, of power and savage joy.

Sometimes (as at present writing,) middle of sunny afternoon, the old "Vanderbilt" steamer
stalking ahead--I plainly hear her rhythmic, slushing paddles--drawing by long hawsers an immense
and varied following string, ("an old sow and pigs," the river folks call it.) First comes
a big barge, with a house built on it, and spars towering over the roof; then canal boats,
a lengthen'd, clustering train, fasten'd and link'd together--the one in the middle, with high
staff, flaunting a broad and gaudy flag--others with the almost invariable lines of new-wash'd
clothes, drying; two sloops and a schooner aside the tow--little wind, and that adverse--with
three long, dark, empty barges bringing up the rear. People are on the boats: men lounging,
women in sun-bonnets, children, stovepipes with streaming smoke.

TWO CITY AREAS, CERTAIN HOURS

NEW YORK, May 24, '79.--Perhaps no quarters of this city (I have return'd again for awhile,)
make more brilliant, animated, crowded, spectacular human presentations these fine May afternoons
than the two I am now going to describe from personal observation. First: that area comprising
Fourteenth street (especially the short range between Broadway and Fifth avenue) with Union
square, its adjacencies, and so retrostretching down Broadway for half a mile. All the walks
here are wide, and the spaces ample and free--now flooded with liquid gold from the last two
hours of powerful sunshine. The whole area at 5 o'clock, the days of my observations, must
have contain'd from thirty to forty thousand finely-dress'd people, all in motion, plenty of
them good-looking, many beautiful women, often youths and children, the latter in groups with
their nurses--the trottoirs everywhere close-spread, thick-tangled, (yet no collision, no trouble,)
with masses of bright color, action, and tasty toilets; (surely the women dress better than
ever before, and the men do too.) As if New York would show these afternoons what it can do
in its humanity, its choicest physique and physiognomy, and its countless prodigality of locomotion,
dry goods, glitter, magnetism, and happiness.

Second: also from 5 to 7 P.M. the stretch of Fifth avenue, all the way from the Central Park
exits at Fifty-ninth street, down to Fourteenth, especially along the high grade by Fortieth
street, and down the hill. A Mississippi of horses and rich vehicles, not by dozens and scores,
but hundreds and thousands--the broad avenue filled and cramm'd with them--a moving, sparkling,
hurrying crush, for more than two miles. (I wonder they don't get block'd, but I believe they
never do.) Altogether it is to me the marvel sight of New York. I like to get in one of the
Fifth avenue stages and ride up, stemming the swift-moving procession. I doubt if London or
Paris or any city in the world can show such a carriage carnival as I have seen here five or
six times these beautiful May afternoons.

CENTRAL PARK WALKS AND TALKS

May 16 to 22.--I visit Central Park now almost every day, sitting, or slowly rambling, or riding
around. The whole place presents its very best appearance this current month--the full flush
of the trees, the plentiful white and pink of the flowering shrubs, the emerald green of the
grass spreading everywhere, yellow dotted still with dandelions --the specialty of the plentiful
gray rocks, peculiar to these grounds, cropping out, miles and miles--and over all the beauty
and purity, three days out of four, of our summer skies. As I sit, placidly, early afternoon,
off against Ninetieth street, the policeman, C. C., a well-form'd sandy-complexion'd young
fellow, comes over and stands near me. We grow quite friendly and chatty forth-with. He is
a New Yorker born and raised, and in answer to my questions tells me about the life of a New
York Park policeman, (while he talks keeping his eyes and ears vigilantly open, occasionally
pausing and moving where he can get full views of the vistas of the road, up and down, and
the spaces around.) The pay is $2.40 a day (seven days to a week)--the men come on and work
eight hours straight ahead, which is all that is required of them out of the twenty-four. The
position has more risks than one might suppose--for instance if a team or horse runs away (which
happens daily) each man is expected not only to be prompt, but to waive safety and stop wildest
nag or nags--(do it, and don't be thinking of your bones or face)--give the alarm-whistle too,
so that other guards may repeat, and the vehicles up and down the tracks be warn'd. Injuries
to the men are continually happening. There is much alertness and quiet strength. (Few appreciate,
I have often thought, the Ulyssean capacity, derring do, quick readiness in emergencies, practicality,
unwitting devotion and heroism, among our American young men and working-people--the firemen,
the railroad employes, the steamer and ferry men, the police, the conductors and drivers--the
whole splendid average of native stock, city and country.) It is good work, though; and upon
the whole, the Park force members like it. They see life, and the excitement keeps them up.
There is not so much difficulty as might be supposed from tramps, roughs, or in keeping people
"off the grass." The worst trouble of the regular Park employe is from malarial fever, chills,
and the like.

A FINE AFTERNOON, 4 TO 6

Ten thousand vehicles careering through the Park this perfect afternoon. Such a show! and I
have seen all--watch'd it narrowly, and at my leisure. Private barouches, cabs and coupes,
some fine horseflesh--lapdogs, footmen, fashions, foreigners, cockades on hats, crests on panels--the
full oceanic tide of New York's wealth and "gentility." It was an impressive, rich, interminable
circus on a grand scale, full of action and color in the beauty of the day, under the clear
sun and moderate breeze. Family groups, couples, single drivers--of course dresses generally
elegant--much "style," (yet perhaps little or nothing, even in that direction, that fully justified
itself.) Through the windows of two or three of the richest carriages I saw faces almost corpse-like,
so ashy and listless. Indeed the whole affair exhibited less of sterling America, either in
spirit or countenance, than I had counted on from such a select mass-spectacle. I suppose,
as a proof of limitless wealth, leisure, and the aforesaid "gentility," it was tremendous.
Yet what I saw those hours (I took two other occasions, two other afternoons to watch the same
scene,) confirms a thought that haunts me every additional glimpse I get of our top-loftical
general or rather exceptional phases of wealth and fashion in this country--namely, that they
are ill at ease, much too conscious, cased in too many cerements, and far from happy--that
there is nothing in them which we who are poor and plain need at all envy, and that instead
of the perennial smell of the grass and woods and shores, their typical redolence is of soaps
and essences, very rare may be, but suggesting the barber shop--something that turns stale
and musty in a few hours anyhow.

Perhaps the show on the horseback road was prettiest. Many groups (threes a favorite number,)
some couples, some singly--many ladies--frequently horses or parties dashing along on a full
run--fine riding the rule--a few really first-class animals. As the afternoon waned, the wheel'd
carriages grew less, but the saddle-riders seemed to increase. They linger'd long--and I saw
some charming forms and faces.

DEPARTING OF THE BIG STEAMERS

