Two 3 by 10-in. soldiers (SS in Figs. 1 and 2, Plate LXXIV) were fastened to each biat and
braced across by two horizontal and two diagonal braces. To each pair of soldiers a floor template,
T, was then nailed. The form for the center drain was then suspended as shown in Fig. 1, Plate
LXXIV. Three pieces of shuttering, FFF, 20 ft. long, were then nailed to the bottom of the
soldiers. One is all that would have been needed for the first concrete placed, but it was
easier to place them at this stage than later, when there was less room. Three rough shutters
were also nailed to the curved portion for the floor template. Opposite each biat, a bracket,
bb, was then nailed, which carries a set of rough boards which formed the risers for the duct
steps. Everything was then ready for concreting except that, where refuge niches occurred,
a form for the portion of the niche below the seat was nailed to the shuttering. This form
is shown at R in Fig. 1, Plate LXXIV.

The concrete was dumped down on each side from side-dump cars standing on the track, and, falling
between the risers for the duct steps, ran or was shoveled under the forms and down into the
bottom. The horizontal surface on each side the center drain was smoothed off with a shovel.
The workmen became very skillful at this, and got a fairly smooth surface. This concrete was
usually placed in lengths of 45 or 60 ft. After setting for about 24 hours, the brackets, bb,
were removed, together with the shuttering on the steps. The triangular pieces, t in Fig. 1,
Plate LXXIV, were not removed until later. Instead, a board was laid upon this lower step on
which the duct layers could work. This and the triangular piece were not removed until just
before the bench concrete was placed. This was important, as otherwise the bond between the
old and new concrete would be much impaired by dirt ground into the surface of the old concrete.
The ducts were then laid, as shown in Fig. 2, Plate LXXIV.

The remaining shutters for the face of the bench walls were then placed. The remainder of the
forms for the refuge niches, RR, in Fig. 1, Plate LXXIV, were nailed to the shutters, the steel
beam over the niche was laid in place, the forms for the ladders, L in Fig. 2, Plate LXXIV,
which occur every 25 ft., were tacked to the shutters, the shutters and forms were given a
coat of creosote oil, and then all was ready for placing the bench concrete.

The specifications required a 2-in. mortar face to be placed on all exposed surfaces and the
remainder to be smoothed with a trowel and straight-edge. After about 48 hours, the biats were
blocked up on the bench, and all forms between the bench walls below the working floor were
removed.

The centering for the arch concrete consisted of simple 5 by 3-1/2 by 5/16-in. steel-angle
arch ribs, curved to the proper radius, spaced at 5-ft. intervals. Each rib was made up of
two pieces spliced together at the top. Two men easily handled one of these pieces. After splicing,
the rib was supported by four hanger-bolts fastened to the iron lining as shown in Fig. 3,
Plate LXXIV.

In the early part of the work, two additional bolts were used about half way up on the side
between the upper and lower hanger-bolts. It was soon found that by placing the strut between
the tunnel lining and the crown of the rib, these hanger-bolts could be dispensed with. The
lagging was of 3-in. dressed yellow pine, 12 in. wide, and in 15-ft. lengths. Each piece had
three saw cuts on the back, from end to end, allowing it to be bent to the curve of the arch;
it was kept curved by an iron strap screwed to the back. The arches were put in, either in
15, 30 or 45-ft. lengths, depending on what was ready for concrete and what could be done in
one continuous working. The rule was that when an arch was begun, the work must not stop until
it was finished. An arch length always ended in the middle of a ring. The lagging was placed
to a height of about 6 ft. above the bench before any concreting was done. When the concrete
had been brought up to that point, lagging was added, one piece at a time, just ahead of the
concrete, up to the crown, where a space of about 18 in. was left. When the lagging had reached
the upper hanger-bolts, they were removed, which left only the two bottom bolts fixed in the
concrete. Most of these were unscrewed from the eye and saved, as tin sleeves were placed around
them before concreting. Two cast-iron eyes were lost for every 5 ft. of tunnel. To place the
key concrete, a stage was set up in the middle of the floor, and, beginning at one end, about
2 ft. of block lagging was placed. Over this, concrete was packed, filling the key as completely
as possible. This was done partly by shoveling and using a short rammer, and partly by packing
with the hands by the workmen, who wore rubber gloves for the purpose. Another 2 ft. of lagging
was then placed, and the operation was repeated, and thus working backward, foot by foot, the
key was completed. This is the usual way of keying a concrete arch, but in this case the difficulty
was increased by the flanges of the iron lining. It was practically impossible to fill all
parts of the pockets formed by these flanges. To meet this difficulty, provision was made for
grouting any unfilled space. As the concrete was being put in, tin pipes were placed with their
tops nearly touching the iron lining, and their bottoms resting on the lagging. Each pocket
was intended to have two of these pipes, one to grout through and the other to act as a vent
for the escape of air. Each center key ring had six pipes, and each side key had eight. The
bottoms of the pipes were held by a single nail driven half way into the lagging. This served
to keep the pipes in position and to locate them after the lagging was taken down.

The cost of labor in the tunnels directly chargeable to concrete was $1.80 per cu. yd. The
top charges, exclusive of the cost of materials (cement, sand, and stone), amounted to $3.92.

ELECTRIC CONDUITS.

In one bench wall of each tunnel there were fifteen openings for power cables and in the other,
between the river shafts, there were forty openings for telephone, telegraph, and signal cables.
East of the Long Island shaft, the number of the latter was reduced to twenty-four. The telephone
ducts were all of the four-way type. The specifications required that the power ducts should
have an opening of not less than 3-1/2 in., nor more than 3-7/8 in., and that after laying
they should pass a 4-ft. mandrel, 3-3/8 in. at the leading end and 2-5/8 in. at the other.
The outside dimension was limited between 5 and 5-3/8 in. The openings of the four-way ducts
were required to be not less than 3-3/8 in., nor more than 3-5/8 in., and after laying to pass
a 5-ft. mandrel, 3-1/4 in. at the leading end and 2-1/2 in. at the other. The outside dimensions
were limited between 9 and 9-1/2 in. All were to be laid in 1/4-in. beds of mortar. The specifications
were not definite as to the shape of the opening, but those used were square with corners rounded
to a radius of 3/8 in. The four-ways were 3 ft. long, and the singles, 18 in.

