    [The Curtain draws up, and reveals a small stage, with an
    inclined sheet of glass in a heavy frame in front; behind this
    glass is the Cottage Home of MARIA MARTIN.

Maria (coming out of Cottage, and speaking in an inaudible tone). At last--WILLIAM CORDER--to
make me his wife--I know not why--strange misgiving 'as come over me.

    [She is unfeelingly requested to speak up.

William Corder (whose villany is suggested at once by his wearing a heavy silver double watch-chain,
with two coins appended, and no neck-tie--enters left). Yes, MARIA, as I have promised, I will
take you to London, and make you my wife--but first meet me in disguise to-night, and in secret,
at the Red Barn.

    [MARIA is understood to demur, but finally agrees to the
    rendezvous, and retires into the Cottage. Old Mr. MARTIN
    comes out in a black frock-coat, and a white waistcoat--he
    has no neck-tie either, but the omission, in his case, merely
    suggests a virtuous economy. He feebly objects to MARIA
    being married in London, but admits that, "Perhaps he has no
    right to interfere with WILLIAM's arrangements," and goes
    indoors again. WILLIAM retires, and the scene changes to a
    'very small street, which is presently invaded by a very large
    Comic Countryman, called "TIM," who is engaged to MARIA's
    sister NANNY.

Tim. They tell I, as how the streets o' Lunnon be paved wi' gold, and I be goin' 'oop to make
ma fortune, I be.

    [NANNY comes in and bribes him to remain by the promise of
    "cold pudden with plenty of gravy." Comic business, during
    which every reference to "cold pudden" (and there are several)
    is received with roars of laughter. WILLIAM CORDER, on
    the ingenious plea that he wishes to take some flowers up
    to London, borrows a spade and pickaxe from TIM, to whom it
    appears he owes ninepence, which he promises--like the villain
    he is--to repay "the very next time he sees him in Church."

William (going off with a flourish and a Shakspearian couplet).
    My mind's made up. Hence all thoughts that are good!
    Crimes once commenced, Must. End in--blood! [Act drop.

A Female Spect. They don't seem in no 'urry to come to th' Gho-ast part, seemin'ly.

Her Swain. Ye wudn't have 'em do th' Gho-ast afoor th' Murder, wud ye?

    ACT II.--The interior of the Red Barn. WILLIAM discovered
    digging MARIA's grave in his shirt-sleeves, and thereby
    revealing that his shirt-front is as false as his heart.
    He announces that "Nothing can shake him, now, from his
    pre-determined purpose," and that "the grave gapes for its
    coming victim."

    Enter MARIA, disguised in a brown bowler hat and a very
    tight suit of tweed "dittoes," in which she looks very like
    the "Male Impersonator" at a Music-hall. The Audience receive
    her with derision and the recommendation to go and get her
    hair cut.

Maria. Here am I in disguise at the Red Barn. And yet something seems to whisper to me that
danger is near. WILLIAM, where, where are you?

William (coming out of a corner). 'Ere, MARIA, 'ere! (Aside.) Now to 'url my victim to an early
grave! (Aloud.) 'Ave you obeyed my instructions and avoided notice?

Maria. I have. Whenever I saw anyone approaching, I hid behind a hedge and ducked in the ditch.

William (with sombre approval). That was most discreet on your part, MARIA. No one saw you
come in, and no one will ever see you go out. Be'old your open grave!

    [After some pleading from MARIA, a desperate struggle takes
    place--that is, they catch one another's wrists, and walk up
    and down together. MARIA calls upon her Mother's spirit,
    whereupon a very youthful Angel is seen floating above the
    couple.

The Female S. (triumphantly). Theer now--theer ain't bin no murder yet, and theer's th' Gho-ast
sure enough!

Swain (who is not going to own that he is mistaken). That ain't naw Gho-ast!

Female S. What is it, then?

Swain. Why, it's the "De-cep-ti-o Vissus," as was wrote up outside.

    [The Guardian Angel vanishes; WILLIAM gets a spade, and
    aims at MARIA, who takes it away, and strikes him; he is
    then reduced to the pick-axe, but she wrests this from him
    too, and hits him in the face with it. He pulls her coat off,
    and her hair down--but she escapes from him a third time--on
    which he snatches up a pistol, and fires it.

William (with unreasonable surprise). Great Evans! What 'ave I done? I, am become a Murderer!
The shot 'as taken effect! See, she staggers this way! (Which MARIA does, to die comfortably
in WILLIAM's arms.) I 'ave slain the only woman who ever truly loved me; and I know not whether
I loved her most while living, or hate her most now she's dead! (The Curtain falls, leaving
WILLIAM with this nice point still unsolved, and the Audience profoundly unmoved by the tragedy,
and evidently longing for more of the Comic Countryman.)

    ACT III.--Interior of Old MARTIN's Cottage. He attempts to
    forget his anxiety about his daughter--who he fears, with
    only too much reason, has come to an untimely end--by going to
    sleep in a highly uncomfortable position on a kitchen-chair.
    The Murder is re-enacted in a vision, in dumb-show. The form
    of MARIA appears in the tweed suit, and urges him to search
    for her remains in the Red Barn.

Old Martin (awaking). I have 'ad a fearful dream, and I am under the impression that MARIA
has been foully murdered in the Red Barn.

    [He calls the Comic Countryman to help him "to commence
    a thorough investigation"--which he does, in a spirit of
    rollicking fun befitting the occasion, as the Scene changes to
    the Red Barn.

Old M. (finding the spade). What's this? A spade--and, by its appearance, it 'as recently been
used, for there are marks of blood upon it! I now begin to be afraid my dream will come true.

    [Roars of laughter when the Comic C. discovers the body, and
    implores it to "say summat!" Change of Scene. WILLIAM CORDER
    discovered At Home, in a long perspective of pillars and
    curtains, ending in a lawn and fountain.

William (moodily). 'Tis now exactly twelve months since MARIA MARTIN was done to death by these
'ands. Since then, I have married a young, rich, and beautiful wife--and yet I am not 'appy.

    [Enter Old MARTIN, who, by the simple method of changing
    his hat and coat, has now become a Bow-street Officer; he puts
    questions to WILLIAM, who at once betrays himself, and has
    to be searched. As a pair of pistols exactly resembling one
    that was left in the Red Barn, are found in his coat-tail
    pockets; his guilt is conclusively proved, and he is led away.
    The next Scene shows him in the Condemned Cell, resolving to
    sleep away his few remaining hours on a kitchen-chair. He has
    a vision of MARIA in tweeds, who exhorts him to repent.
    Old MARTIN, who is now either the Governor of the Gaol or the
    Hangman, enters to conduct him to the scaffold, and on the way
    he is met--to the joy of the Audience--by the Comic, C.,
    who duns him for the ninepence. WILLIAM shakes his head
    solemnly, points to the skies, and passes on. The Comic C.
    then goes to sleep in a chair and has a vision on his own
    account, in which he beholds the apotheosis of MARIA--still
    in the suit of dittoes--and piloted by a couple of obviously
    overweighted Angels; and also the last moments of WILLIAM
    CORDER, who, as he stands under an enlarged "Punch"
    gibbet, pronounces the following impressive farewell before
    disappearing through a trap.

  Ye Youth, be warned by my Despair!
  Avoid bad women, false as they are fair. (This is just a little
          hard on poor MARIA by-the-way.)
  Be wise in time, if you would shun my fate,
  For oh! how wretched is the man who's wise too late!

    [And with this the Drama comes to an end, and the Comic
    Countryman begs the Audience to give the performance a good
    word to their friends outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

BETWEEN THE ACTS; OR, THE DRAMA IN LIQUOR.

    SCENE--Refreshment Saloon at a London Theatre. A three-play
    bill forms the evening's entertainment. First Act over. Enter
    BROWN, JONES, and ROBINSON.

Brown. Well, really a very pleasant little piece. Quite amusing. Yes; I think I will have a
cup of coffee or a glass of lemonade. Too soon after dinner for anything stronger.

Jones. Yes, and really, after laughing so much, one gets a thirst for what they call light
refreshments. I will have some ginger-beer.

Robinson. Well, I think I will stick to iced-water. You know the Americans are very fond of
that. They always take it at meal-times, and really after that capital équivoque one feels
quite satisfied. (They are served by the Bar Attendant.) That was really very funny, where
he hides behind the door when she is not looking.

    [Laughs at the recollection.

Brown. And when the uncle sits down upon the band-box and crushes the canary-cage! [Chuckles.

Jones. Most clever. But there goes the bell, and the Curtain will be up directly. Rather clever,
I am told. The Rose of Rouen--it is founded on the life of Joan of Arc. I am rather fond of
these historical studies.

Brown. So am I. They are very interesting.

Robinson. Do you think so? Well, so far as I am concerned, I prefer Melodrama. Judging from
the title, The Gory Hand should be uncommonly good.

    [Exeunt into Theatre. After a pause they return to the
    Refreshment Room.

Brown. Well, it is very clever; but I confess it beats me. (To Bar Attendant.) We will all
take soda-water. No, thanks, quite neat, and for these gentlemen too.

Jones. Well, I call it a most excellent psychological study. However, wants a clear head to
understand it. (Sips his soda-water.) I don't see how she can take the flag from the Bishop,
and yet want to marry the Englishman.

Robinson. Ah, but that was before the vision. If you think it over carefully, you will see
it was natural enough. Of course, you must allow for the spirit of the period, and other surrounding
circumstances.

Brown. Are you going to stay for The Gory Hand?

Jones. Not I. I am tired of play-acting, and think we have had enough of it.

Robinson. Well, I think I shall look in. I am rather fond of strong scenes, and it should be
good, to judge from the programme.

Jones. Well, we will "sit out." It's rather gruesome. Quite different from the other plays.

Robinson. Well, I don't mind horrors--in fact, like them. There goes the bell. So I am off.
Wait until I come back.

Brown. That depends how long you are away. Ta, ta!

    [Exit ROBINSON.

Jones. Now, how a fellow can enjoy a piece like that, I cannot understand. It is full of murders,
from the rise to the fall of the Curtain.

Brown. Yes--but ROBINSON likes that sort of thing. You will see by-and-by how the plot will
affect him. It is rather jumpy, especially at the end, when the severed head tells the story
of the murder to the assistant executioner. I would not see it again on any account.

Jones. No--it sent my Maiden Aunt in hysterics. However, it has the merit of being short. (Applause.)
Ah, there it's over! Let's see how ROBINSON likes it. That tableau at the end, of the starving-coastguardsman
expiring under the rack, is perfectly awful! (Enter ROBINSON, staggering in.) Why, my boy,
what's the matter?

Brown. You do look scared! Have something to drink? That will set it all to-rights!

Robinson (with his eyes protruding from his head, from horror). Here, help! help! (After a
long shudder.) Brandy! Brandy I: Brandy!

    [At all the places at the bar there is a general demand for
    alcohol.

Brown. Yes. IRVING was right; soda-water does very well for SHAKSPEARE's histories, but when
you come to a piece like The Bells, you require supporting. [Curtain and moral.

       *       *       *       *       *

"IN A WINTER (COVENT) GARDEN."

That indefatigable Showman, Sir DRURIOLANUS, the Invincible Knight, commenced his Winter Operatic
Season on Monday, the Tenth, at Covent Garden, so as to be well in advance of Signor LAGO,
who may now boast of having La Donna, Her Most Gracious MAJESTY, for his patron.

Monday Night.--The two RAVOGLIS in good form in the Orféo. Likewise the Player of the Big Drum
made more than one big hit during the evening. "Che farò" was re-demanded. "Tired of 'Faro,'"
quoth Mr. WAGGSTAFF--"why not make it 'Whisto,' or some other game?" Exit WAGGY. The Intermezzo
of Cavalleria Rusticana of course encored enthusiastically. "Signor CREMONNINI," quoth WAGG,
returning, "is not half the 'ninny' his name implies." And, indeed, from the moment he was
heard singing "in his ambush" (as the Irish boy in the Gallery said of TOM HOHLER at the Dublin
Theatre when he heard the Trovatore's voice behind the scenes) before the rise of the Curtain,
everyone said, "This is the tenner for our money."

Tuesday.--The namesake of our own GEORGE AUGUSTUS, Mlle. ROSITA SALA, made a real hit as Leonora
in Il Trovatore. "Handsome is as handsome does," and Mlle. SALA didn't act as "handsome" as
she looked. Another "ninny" played to-night, namely GIANNINNI, all right vocally, but not much
dramatically. "Il Balen" was encored when sung by a manly baritone with the feminine name of
ANNA; i.e., Signor DE ANNA. He might advantageously alter DE-ANNA to APOLLO, that is if he
could be sure of looking the part.

Wednesday.--Lohengrin. MELBA as Elsa. WAGGSTAFF tried to make his usual pun on the name of
Ortruda, but was "countered" by Young JUMPER who protested that he had heard it before and
never wanted to hear it again. "I know what you're going to say," he exclaimed; "it's something
about 'aught ruder!' I know!" "I've no doubt you do," returned the defrauded WAGGY, sarcastically,
"for you're uncommonly like Othello, 'Rude am I in speech'--only," added WAGGSTAFF, "he apologised
for it." Young JUMPER sniggered, his friends laughed, and the incident terminated. The Chorus
seemed to have become Wandering Minstrels, so very uncertain were they.

Altogether, Sir DRURIOLANUS OPERATICUS, with his successful Drury Lane Race-course, his Provincial
Theatre, his Italian Opera, his Paper (not in the House, but his weekly one out of it), his
Music-of-the-Future Hall, for which a temporary and limited licence has been granted, will--in
a general-dealer kind of way--be having a good time of it till Pantomime Season slaps him on
the back with a cheery "Here we are again!" and then he will have another and a better time.
No doubt of Sir Gus's success, or in abbreviated proverbial Latin, "De Gus. non disputandum."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COLUMBUS.

  COLUMBUS! We read of him every day,
    In books, pamphlets, magazines, papers;
  Whilst Italy, Portugal, Spain, U.S.A.,
    Cut constant, consecutive capers.

  They started last month with reviews on the main;
    On the land with processions--a quaint row.
  Such the fêtes, aptly called by the French "Fêtes de Gènes,"
    Fait accompli, good luck, ça nous gêne trop!

  But never say die; now Huelva goes on,
    New York follows, steady and sober,
  And Chicago makes ready for more derned, dog gone
    Fêtes to last till, at least, next October!

  COLUMBUS, your search for a sort of New Cut
    Was meant for the best, we don't doubt it;
  No harm in discovering Continents, but
    You might have said nothing about it.

