Although the large Central Station Companies are continually extending their power lines, and
are enlarging the territory served by them, yet there are many places where such service is
not available. To meet the demand for electrical power in these places, small but complete
generating plants have been produced by a number of manufacturers. These plants consist of
an electrical generator, an engine, to drive the generator, and a storage battery to supply
power when the generator is not running. The complete plants are called "House Lighting," "Farm
Lighting," or "Isolated" plants.

The batteries used in these plants differ considerably from the starting batteries used on
automobiles. The starting battery is called upon to deliver very heavy currents for short intervals.
On the car the battery is always being charged when the car is running at a moderate speed
or over. The battery must fit in the limited space provided for it on the car, and must not
lose any electrolyte as the car jolts along over the road. It is subjected to both high and
low temperatures; and is generally on a car whose owner often does not know that his car has
such a thing as a battery until his starting motor some day fails to turn over the engine.
All starting batteries have wooden cases (some now use rubber cases), hard rubber jars, and
sealed on covers. The case contains all the cells of the battery. Automobile batteries have,
therefore, become highly standardized, and to the uninformed, one make looks just like any other.

Farm lighting batteries, on the other hand, are not limited as to space they occupy, are not
subjected to irregular charging and discharging, do not need leak proof covers, and are not
called upon to delivery very heavy currents for short periods. These facts are taken advantage
of by the manufacturers, who have designed their farm lighting batteries to give a much longer
life than is possible in the automobile battery. As a result the farm lighting battery differs
from the automobile battery in a number of respects.

Jars. Both glass and rubber are used for farm lighting battery jars, and they may or may not
have sealed-in covers. Fig. 294 shows a glass jar of an Exide battery having a hard rubber
cover, and Fig. 295 shows a Prest-O-Lite glass jar cell having a cover made of lead and antimony.
Unsealed glass jars, such as the Exide type shown in Fig. 324, generally have a plate of glass
placed across the top to catch acid spray when the cell is gassing. Each jar with its plates
and electrolyte forms a complete and separate unit which may easily be disconnected from the
other cells of the battery by removing the bolts which join them. In working on a farm lighting
battery, the repairman, therefore, works with individual cells instead of the battery as a
whole, as is done with automobile batteries.

  [Fig. 294 Exide "Delco Light" farming lighting cell with
   hard rubber cover]

Batteries with sealed jars are generally shipped completely assembled and filled with electrolyte,
and need only a freshening charge before being put into service, just as automobile batteries
which are shipped "wet" are in a fully charged condition when they leave the factory and need
only a charge before being installed on the car.

  [Fig. 295 Prest-O-Lite farm lighting cell with lead-antimony
   cover]

Jars that are not sealed are set in separate glass trays filled with sand, or sometimes the
entire battery is set in a shallow wooden box or tray filled with sand. This is necessary because
the absence of a sealed cover allows acid spray to run down the outside of the jar and this
acid would, of course, attack the wooden shelf and make a dirty, sloppy battery. Batteries
using jars without sealed covers cannot be shipped assembled and charged, and hence they require
a considerable amount of work and along initial charge to put them in a serviceable condition.

  [Fig. 296 Exide farm lighting cell with sealed glass jar]

Farm lighting battery jars are less liable to become cracked than those of automobile batteries
because they are set in one place and remain there, and are not jolted about as automobile
batteries are. Cracked jars in farm lighting batteries are more easily detected as the jar
will be wet on the outside and the acid will wet the shelf or sand tray on which the jar rests.

Batteries with sealed rubber jars are normally assembled four cells in a case or tray, with
a nameplate on each tray which gives the type and size of cell. The cells are connected together
with lead links which are bolted to the cell posts by means of lead covered bolt connectors.

  [Fig. 297 Combination wood and rubber separator used in
   Delco-Light and Exide Farm light cell]

Plates. Since farm lighting batteries are not required to deliver very heavy currents at any
time, the plates are made thicker than in starting batteries, this giving a stronger plate
which has a longer life than the starting battery plate.

All makes of starting batteries use the Faure, or pasted plate. This type of plate is also
used in many farm lighting batteries, but the Plante plate (see page 27) may also be used.
The Exide "Chloride Accumulator" cell, Fig. 323 uses a type of positive plate called the "Manchester"
positive as described on page 497.

Separators. Grooved wooden separators are used in some farm lighting batteries, while others
use rubber separators, or both rubber and wooden separators. Some use wooden separators which
are smooth on both sides, but have dowels pinned to them.

Electrolyte. In farm lighting batteries, the different types have different values of specific
gravity when fully charged. The usual values are as follows:

(a) Batteries with sealed glass jars 1.210 to 1.250

(b) Batteries with open glass jars 1.200 to 1.250

(c) Batteries with sealed rubber jars 1.260 to 1.280

A brief discussion of specific gravity might be helpful at this point. In any lead acid battery
current is produced by a chemical action between the active material in the plates and the
water and sulphuric acid in the electrolyte. The amount of energy which can be delivered by
the battery depends on the amount of active material, sulphuric acid, and water which enter
into the chemical actions of the cell. As these chemical actions take place, sulphuric acid
is used up, and hence there must be enough acid contained in the electrolyte to enter into
the chemical actions. The amount of water and acid in the electrolyte may be varied, as long
as there is enough of each present to combine with the active material of the plates so as
to enable the cell to deliver its full capacity. Increasing the amount of acid will result
in the plates and separators being attacked and injured by the acid. Increasing the amount
of water dilutes the acid, giving a lower gravity, and preventing the Acid from injuring plates
and separators. This results in a longer life for the battery, and is a desirable condition.
In starter batteries, there is not enough space in the jars for the increased amount of water.
In farm lighting batteries, where the space occupied by the battery is not so important, the
jars are made large enough to hold a greater amount of water, thus giving an electrolyte which
has a lower specific gravity than in starting batteries.

Take a fully charged cell of any starting battery. It contains a set of plates and the electrolyte
which is composed of a certain necessary amount of acid and a certain amount of water. If we
put the plates of this cell in a larger jar, add the same amount of acid as before, but add
a greater amount of water than was contained in the smaller jar, we will still have a fully
charged cell of the same capacity as before, but the specific gravity of the electrolyte will
be lower.

Charging Equipment. Automobile batteries are being charged whenever the car is running at more
than about 10 miles per hour, regardless of what their condition may be.

In farm lighting outfits, the charging is under the control of the operator, and the battery
is charged when a charge is necessary. There is, therefore, very much less danger of starving
or overcharging the battery. The operator must, however, watch his battery carefully, and charge
it as often as may be necessary, and not allow it to go without its regular charge.

The generator of a farm lighting outfit is usually driven by an internal combustion engine
furnished with the outfit. The engine may be connected to the generator by a belt, or its shaft
may be connected directly to the generator shaft. A switchboard carrying the necessary instruments
and switches also goes with the outfit. The charging of farm lighting batteries is very much
like the charging of automobile batteries on the charging bench, except that the batteries
are at all times connected to switches, by means of which they may be put on the charging line.

Some plants are so arranged that the battery and generator do not provide current for the lights
at the same time, lights being out while the battery is charging. In others the generator and
battery, in emergency, may both provide current. In others the lights may burn while the battery
is being charged; in this case the battery is sometimes provided with counter-electromotive
force cells which permit high enough voltage across the battery to charge it and yet limit
the voltage across the lamps to prevent burning them out or shortening their life. In some
cases the battery is divided into two sets which are charged in parallel and discharged in series.

Relation of the Automobile Storage Battery Man to the Farm Lighting Plant. Owners and prospective
owners of farm lighting plants generally know but little about the care or repair of electrical
apparatus, especially batteries, which are not as easily understood as lamps, motors or generators.
Prospective owners may quite likely call upon the automobile battery repair man for advice
as to the installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of his battery and the automobile
battery repairman should have little trouble in learning how to take care of farm lighting
batteries. The details in which these batteries differ from starting batteries should be studied
and mastered, and a new source of business will be opened.

Farm lighting plants in the vicinity should be studied and observed while they are in good
working order, the details of construction and operation studied, the layout of the various
circuits to lamps, motors, heaters, etc., examined so as to become familiar with the plants.
Then When anything goes wrong with the battery, or even the other parts of the plant, there
will be no difficulty in putting things back in running order.

Selection of Plant

"Farm Lighting Plant" is the name applied to the small electric plant to be used where a central
station supply is not available. Such a plant, of course, may be used for driving motors and
heating devices, as well as operating electric lights, and the plant is really a "Farm Lighting
and Power Plant."

Make. There are several very good lighting plants on the market and the selection of the make
of the plant must be left to the discretion of the owner, or whomever the owner may ask for
advice. The selection will depend on cost, whether the plant will fill the particular requirements,
what makes can be obtained nearby, on the delivery that can be made, and the service policy
of the manufacturer.

Type. Plants are made which come complete with battery, generator, engine, and switchboard
mounted on one base. All such a plant requires is a suitable floor space for its installation.
Other plants have all parts separate, and require more work to install. With some plants, the
generator and engine may be mounted as a unit on one base, with battery and switchboard separate.

The type of jar used in the battery may influence the choice. Jars are made of glass or rubber.
The glass jars have sealed covers, or have no covers. The rubber jars generally have a sealed
cover. The glass jar has the advantage that the interior may be seen at all times, and the
height of the electrolyte and sediment may be seen and the condition of the plates, etc., determined
by a simple inspection. This is an important feature and one that will be appreciated by the
one who takes care of the battery. Jars with sealed covers, or covers which although not sealed,
close up the top of the jar completely have the advantage of keeping in acid spray, and keeping
out dirt and impurities. Open jars are generally set in trays of sand to catch electrolyte
which runs down the outside walls of the jars. The open jars have the advantage that the plates
are very easily removed, but have the disadvantage that acid spray is not kept in effectually,
although a plate of glass is generally laid over part of the top of the jar, and that dirt
and dust may fall into the jar.

Size. The capacity of storage battery cells is rated in ampere hours, while power consumed
by lights, motors, etc., is measured in watt hours, or kilowatt hours. However, the ampere
hour capacity of a battery can be changed to watt hours since watt hours is equal to

   Watt hours = ampere hours multiplied by the volts

If we have a 16 cell battery, each cell of which is an 80 ampere hour cell, the ampere hour
capacity of the entire battery will be 80, the same as that of one of its cells, since the
cells are all in series and the same current passes through all cells. The watt hour capacity
of the battery will be 32 times 80, or 2560. The ampere hour capacity is computed for the 8
hour rate, that is, the current is drawn from the battery continuously for 8 hours, and at
the end of that time the battery is discharged. If the current is not drawn from the battery
continuously for 8 hours, but is used for shorter intervals intermittently, the ampere hour
capacity of the battery will be somewhat greater. It seldom occurs that in any installation
the battery is used continuously for eight hours at a rate which will discharge it in that
time, and hence a greater capacity is obtained from the battery. Some manufacturers do not
rate their batteries at the 8 hour continuous discharge rate but use the intermittent rate,
thus rating a battery 30 to 40 percent higher. Rated in this way, a battery of 16 cells rated
at 80 ampere hours at the 8 hour rate would be rated at 112 ampere hours, or 3584 watt hours.

In determining the size of the battery required, estimate as nearly as possible how many lamps,
motors, and heaters, etc., will be used. Compute the watts (volts X amperes), required by each.
Estimate how long each appliance will be used each day, and thus obtain the total watt hours
used per day. Multiply this by 7 to get the watt hours per week. The total watt hours required
in one week should not be equal to more than twice the watt hour capacity of the battery (ampere
hours multiplied by the total battery voltage) at the eight hour rate. This means that the
battery should not require a charge oftener than two times a week.

The capacity of a battery is often measured in the number of lamps it will burn brightly for
eight hours. The watts consumed by motors, heaters, etc., may be expressed in a certain number
of lamps. The following table will be of assistance in determining the size of the battery
required:

                                      Watts      Equivalent Number
No.   Type of Appliance               Consumed   of 20 Watt Lamps
---   -----------------               --------   -----------------

1     16 candle power, Mazda lamp      20          1 2     12 candle power, Mazda lamp    
115         3/4 3     Electric Fan, small size         75          4 4     Small Sewing machine
motor       100         5 5     Vacuum cleaner                   160         8 6     Washing
machine                  200         10 7     Churn, 1/6 h.p.                  200        
10 8     Cream Separator, 1/6 h.p.        200         10 9     Water pump 1/6 h.p.        
200         10 10    Electric water heater, small     350         18 11    Electric toaster
525         26 12    Electric stove, small            600         30 13    Electric iron  
600         30 14    Pump, 1/2 h.p.                   600         30

From the foregoing table we can determine the current consumption of the various appliances:

                  Amps at 32     Amps at 110
No.     Watts     Volts          Volts
---     -----     ----------     ------------
1       20        0.625          0.18
2       15        0.47           0.14
3       75        2.34           6.80
4       100       3.125          0.90
5       160       5.00           1.44
6       200       6.25           1.80
7       200       6.25           1.80
8       200       6.25           1.80
9       200       6.25           1.80
10      350       11.00          3.20
11      525       16.4           4.77
12      600       18.75          5.40
13      600       18.75          5.40
14      600       18.75          5.40

The following tables show how long the battery will carry various currents continuously:

  [Images:  various charts/tables]

Location of Plant

The various appliances should be placed as near to each other as possible. The lights, of course,
must be placed so as to illuminate the different rooms, barns, etc., but the power devices
should be placed as close as possible to each other and to the plant. The purpose of this is
to use as little wire as possible between the plant and the various appliances so as to prevent
excessive voltage drop in the lines.

Wiring

The wires leading to the various appliances should be large enough so that not more than one
or two volts are lost in the wires. To obtain the resistance of the wire leading to any appliance,
use the following equation:

Knowing the resistance of the wire, and the total length of the two wires leading from the
plant to the appliance, the size of the wire may be obtained from a wiring table.

Rubber insulated copper wire covered with a double braid should preferably be used, and the
duplex wire is often more convenient than the single wire, especially in running from one building
to another. Wiring on the inside of buildings should be done neatly, running the wires on porcelain
insulators, and as directly to the appliance as possible. The standard rules for interior wiring
as to fuses, soldering joints, etc., should be followed.

Installation

(See also special instructions for the different makes, beginning page 460.)

The room in which the plant is installed should be clean, dry, and well ventilated. It should
be one which is not very cold in winter, as a cold battery is very sluggish and seems to lack
capacity. If possible, have the plant in a separate room in order to keep out dirt and dust.
If no separate room is available, it is a good plan to build a small room in a corner of a
large room. Keep the room clean and free of miscellaneous tools and rubbish.

If the entire plant comes complete on one base, all that is necessary is to bolt the base securely
to the floor, which should be as nearly level as possible. If the battery is to be installed
separately, build a rack. Give the rack several coats of asphaltum paint to make it acid proof.
The location of the battery rack should be such that the rack will be:

(a) Free from vibration.

