STRANGELY enough, the decade immediately following Newton was one of comparative barrenness
in scientific progress, the early years of the eighteenth century not being as productive of
great astronomers as the later years of the seventeenth, or, for that matter, as the later
years of the eighteenth century itself. Several of the prominent astronomers of the later seventeenth
century lived on into the opening years of the following century, however, and the younger
generation soon developed a coterie of astronomers, among whom Euler, Lagrange, Laplace, and
Herschel, as we shall see, were to accomplish great things in this field before the century closed.

One of the great seventeenth-century astronomers, who died just before the close of the century,
was Johannes Hevelius (1611-1687), of Dantzig, who advanced astronomy by his accurate description
of the face and the spots of the moon. But he is remembered also for having retarded progress
by his influence in refusing to use telescopic sights in his observations, preferring until
his death the plain sights long before discarded by most other astronomers. The advantages
of these telescope sights have been discussed under the article treating of Robert Hooke, but
no such advantages were ever recognized by Hevelius. So great was Hevelius's reputation as
an astronomer that his refusal to recognize the advantage of the telescope sights caused many
astronomers to hesitate before accepting them as superior to the plain; and even the famous
Halley, of whom we shall speak further in a moment, was sufficiently in doubt over the matter
to pay the aged astronomer a visit to test his skill in using the old-style sights. Side by
side, Hevelius and Halley made their observations, Hevelius with his old instrument and Halley
with the new. The results showed slightly in the younger man's favor, but not enough to make
it an entirely convincing demonstration. The explanation of this, however, did not lie in the
lack of superiority of the telescopic instrument, but rather in the marvellous skill of the
aged Hevelius, whose dexterity almost compensated for the defect of his instrument. What he
might have accomplished could he have been induced to adopt the telescope can only be surmised.

Halley himself was by no means a tyro in matters astronomical at that time. As the only son
of a wealthy soap-boiler living near London, he had been given a liberal education, and even
before leaving college made such novel scientific observations as that of the change in the
variation of the compass. At nineteen years of age he discovered a new method of determining
the elements of the planetary orbits which was a distinct improvement over the old. The year
following he sailed for the Island of St, Helena to make observations of the heavens in the
southern hemisphere.

It was while in St. Helena that Halley made his famous observation of the transit of Mercury
over the sun's disk, this observation being connected, indirectly at least, with his discovery
of a method of determining the parallax of the planets. By parallax is meant the apparent change
in the position of an object, due really to a change in the position of the observer. Thus,
if we imagine two astronomers making observations of the sun from opposite sides of the earth
at the same time, it is obvious that to these observers the sun will appear to be at two different
points in the sky. Half the angle measuring this difference would be known as the sun's parallax.
This would depend, then, upon the distance of the earth from the sun and the length of the
earth's radius. Since the actual length of this radius has been determined, the parallax of
any heavenly body enables the astronomer to determine its exact distance.

The parallaxes can be determined equally well, however, if two observers are separated by exactly
known distances, several hundreds or thousands of miles apart. In the case of a transit of
Venus across the sun's disk, for example, an observer at New York notes the image of the planet
moving across the sun's disk, and notes also the exact time of this observation. In the same
manner an observer at London makes similar observations. Knowing the distance between New York
and London, and the different time of the passage, it is thus possible to calculate the difference
of the parallaxes of the sun and a planet crossing its disk. The idea of thus determining the
parallax of the planets originated, or at least was developed, by Halley, and from this phenomenon
he thought it possible to conclude the dimensions of all the planetary orbits. As we shall
see further on, his views were found to be correct by later astronomers.

In 1721 Halley succeeded Flamsteed as astronomer royal at the Greenwich Observatory. Although
sixty-four years of age at that time his activity in astronomy continued unabated for another
score of years. At Greenwich he undertook some tedious observations of the moon, and during
those observations was first to detect the acceleration of mean motion. He was unable to explain
this, however, and it remained for Laplace in the closing years of the century to do so, as
we shall see later.

Halley's book, the Synopsis Astronomiae Cometicae, is one of the most valuable additions to
astronomical literature since the time of Kepler. He was first to attempt the calculation of
the orbit of a comet, having revived the ancient opinion that comets belong to the solar system,
moving in eccentric orbits round the sun, and his calculation of the orbit of the comet of
1682 led him to predict correctly the return of that comet in 1758. Halley's Study of Meteors.

Like other astronomers of his time he was greatly puzzled over the well-known phenomena of
shooting-stars, or meteors, making many observations himself, and examining carefully the observations
of other astronomers. In 1714 he gave his views as to the origin and composition of these mysterious
visitors in the earth's atmosphere. As this subject will be again referred to in a later chapter,
Halley's views, representing the most advanced views of his age, are of interest.

"The theory of the air seemeth at present," he says, "to be perfectly well understood, and
the differing densities thereof at all altitudes; for supposing the same air to occupy spaces
reciprocally proportional to the quantity of the superior or incumbent air, I have elsewhere
proved that at forty miles high the air is rarer than at the surface of the earth at three
thousand times; and that the utmost height of the atmosphere, which reflects light in the Crepusculum,
is not fully forty-five miles, notwithstanding which 'tis still manifest that some sort of
vapors, and those in no small quantity, arise nearly to that height. An instance of this may
be given in the great light the society had an account of (vide Transact. Sep., 1676) from
Dr. Wallis, which was seen in very distant counties almost over all the south part of England.
Of which though the doctor could not get so particular a relation as was requisite to determine
the height thereof, yet from the distant places it was seen in, it could not but be very many
miles high.

