If we pass under the archway into Dean's Yard, we find a backwater indeed, where the roar of
traffic scarcely penetrates, where sleek pigeons coo in the elm-trees round a grass plot, as
if they were in the close of one of the sleepiest of provincial towns instead of in the midst
of one of the greatest cities in the world. On the east side there is a long building of smoke-blackened,
old stone. The door at the north end leads into the cloisters, from whence we can pass into
the school courtyard, otherwise the school entry is by a pointed doorway a little further down,
beneath the Headmaster's house. Entering this, we have on the left Ashburnham House, on the
right the houses of masters who take boarders, and opposite, a fine gateway with the arms of
Queen Elizabeth over it; this is said to have been designed by Inigo Jones. The greater part
of the buildings was designed by Wren, who died before the project was carried out, but there
seems to be little doubt that the Earl of Burlington, who followed him in the appointment,
used Wren's plans. The great square building, the scholars' dormitory (now cubicles), which
faces us, standing a little way to the right of the ornamental gateway, is of this period;
also much of the main building into which we enter by the gateway above mentioned, and a flight
of steps. The seventh form room on the right has a fine ceiling of Italian plaster and bookcases
with carved panels. This is known as Dr. Busby's Library, because built by him. It looks out
over the college garden.

The great schoolroom beyond, known as Up-School, is a splendid room, with mighty beams in its
fine timber roof, and panels with the arms of Westminster boys now dead on the walls. The bar
over which the pancake is tossed on Shrove Tuesday is pointed out, and a very great height
it is. At the upper end of the room, which, by the way, is now used only for prayers, concerts,
etc., is the birching-table, black and worn with age and use. Dryden's name, carved on a bench,
is shown, and a chair presented by King Charles to Dr. Busby. The walls date originally from
the twelfth century or earlier, but were practically rebuilt in the end of the eighteenth century.
The only part of the college buildings which formed part of the original school is the college
hall, built by Abbot Litlington in 1380 as the monks' refectory. But by far the oldest part
of the buildings at present incorporated in the school is the Norman crypt, approached from
the dark cloister, and forming part of the gymnasium made by the Chapter in 1860, by roofing
in the walls beyond it, between it and the Chapter-house. A stranger gymnasium, surely, no
school can boast.

The name of Dr. Busby, Headmaster from 1638 to 1695, will be for ever held in honour at Westminster.
He himself had been a Westminster boy, and all his great ability and strong character were
bent to furthering the interests of the school.

The roll of names of those educated at Westminster includes Dryden, Bishop Atterbury, Cowley,
Warren Hastings, Gibbon, Thomas Cowper, Charles Wesley, Lord John Russell, and many others
well known wherever the English tongue is spoken.

In 1706 there were nearly 400 boys, but after this the school began to decline; in 1841 it
was at a very low ebb--there were less than seventy boys. The reasons for this decline were
manifold. Building had been going on apace round the quiet precincts, and parents fancied their
sons would be better in the country; also, though the charges were high, the system of living
was extremely rough, and no money was spent on repairing the buildings. In 1845, when Wilberforce
was appointed Dean, he set to work to inspire fresh life into the institution, but he had hardly
time to do anything before he was appointed to the See of Oxford; however, the current set
flowing by him gathered strength, and in 1846, when Liddell (afterwards Dean of Christchurch)
was made Headmaster, the school was recovering its prosperity.

Ashburnham House was taken over by the school in 1882, and it is well worth a visit. In the
hall where the day boys have their lockers there is a very old buttery hatch, probably part
of the monks' original building; at the back the little green garden is the site of the refectory,
and traces of Norman windows are seen against the exterior cloister wall. The staircase in
Ashburnham House is very fine; it is of the "well" variety, and is surmounted by a cupola with
a little gallery. The walls are all panelled; unfortunately, paint has been laid on everything
alike, and though the balusters have been recently uncovered, the process is difficult and
laborious, and apt to injure the carving. The carving round the doorways is very fine, of the
laurel-wreath pattern associated with the period of Wren. The house belonged to Lord Ashburnham,
and was later used by the Prebendaries of the cathedral. The school is no longer in any sense
dependent on the Abbey, and except that the boys attend the services there as "chapel," the
old ties are severed. A great feature of the school are the King's (or Queen's) Scholars, founded
by Elizabeth; of these there are now forty resident and twenty non-resident. There are three
scholarships and three exhibitions yearly at Christ Church, Oxford, for Westminster boys, and
three exhibitions at Trinity College, Oxford. There are at present (1902) about two hundred
and thirty boys in the school. The Latin play, which is well known in connection with the school,
is acted by the King's Scholars annually in the middle of December, and dates back to 1704.

HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT.

The annals of New Palace Yard are long and interesting. It looks so new and modern, with its
Houses of Parliament, and its iron railings, that one forgets how ancient a place it is. What
stood on the site of Westminster Hall before William Rufus built it we know not, but certainly
some buildings belonging to the Old Palace of Cnut and Edward the Confessor. It was called,
however, New Palace Yard on account of the buildings erected by William and his successors.
It was enclosed by a wall which had three gates. The water-gate was on the site of the present
bridge, while the Star Chamber occupied very nearly the site of the present Clock Tower. The
yard was further beautified by a fountain, which on great days flowed with wine; this fountain,
which was taken down in the reign of Charles II., stood on the north side. On the same side
behind the fountain was the "Clochard," or Clock Tower. This fine building was erected by Sir
Ralph Hingham, Lord Chief Justice under Edward I., in payment of a fine of 800 marks imposed
upon him by the King for having altered a court roll. It was done in mercy, in order to change
a poor man's fine of 12s. 4d. to 6s. 8d., but a court roll must not be altered. The care of
the clock was granted to the Dean of St. Stephen's, with an allowance of sixpence a day. The
bell, very famous in its day, was large and sonorous; it could be heard all over London when
the wind was south-west. It was first called Edward, and bore this legend:

    "Tercius aptavit me Rex Edward que vocavit
    Sancti decore Edwardi signerentur ut hore."

When the Clock Tower, the "Clochard," was taken down in 1698, the bell called "Tom" was found
to weigh 82 cwt. 2 qrs. 211 lb. It was bought by the Dean of St. Paul's. As it was being carried
to the City, it fell from the cart in crossing the very boundary of Westminster, viz., under
Temple Bar. In 1716 it was recast, and presently placed in the western tower of St. Paul's.

In Palace Yard Perkin Warbeck sat in the stocks before the gate of Westminster Hall for a whole
day, enduring innumerable reproaches, mockings and scornings.

Here John Stubbs, the Puritan, an attorney of Lincoln's Inn, and Robert Page, his servant (December
3, 1580), had their hands struck off for a libel on the Queen, called "The Gaping Gulph, in
which England will be swallowed by the French Marriage." What part the unfortunate servant
played that he, too, should deserve a punishment so terrible is difficult to say. On March
2, 1585, William Parry was drawn from the Tower and hanged and quartered here. And in January,
1587, one Thomas Lovelace, sentenced by the Star Chamber for false accusations, was carried
on horseback about Westminster Hall, his face to the tail; he was then pilloried, and had one
of his ears cut off. The execution, in 1612, of Lord Sanquire for the murder of a fencing-master,
and of the Duke of Hamilton, the Earl of Holland and Lord Capel, on March 9, 1649, for so-called
treason, took place in New Palace Yard. Here in 1630 Alexander Leighton was whipped, pilloried
and branded for a libel on the Queen and the Bishops. In May, 1685, Titus Oates was stripped
of his ecclesiastical robes and led round Westminster Hall; afterwards he was put in the pillory.
The printer of the famous "No. 45" of the North Briton also stood in the pillory in New Palace
Yard in 1765.

In the Old Palace Yard, now covered by buildings, were fought out certain ordeals of battle.
Here was held at least one famous tournament, that in which the two Scottish prisoners, the
Earl Douglas and Sir William Douglas, bore themselves so gallantly that the King restored them
to liberty on their promise not to fight against the English.

One memory of Old Palace Yard must not be forgotten. Geoffrey Chaucer lived during his last
year at a house adjoining the White Rose Tavern abutting on the Lady Chapel of the Abbey. The
house was swept away to make room for Henry VII.'s chapel. Nor must we forget that Ben Jonson
lived and died in a house over the gate or passage from the churchyard to the old palace. In
the south-east corner of Old Palace Yard stood the house hired by the Gunpowder Plot conspirators
for the conveyance of the barrels into the vault. And it was in Old Palace Yard that four of
them suffered death.

The whole of the ground now occupied by the Houses of Parliament, Westminster Hall and New
Palace Yard was formerly covered with the walls, gates, tower, state chambers, private chambers,
offices, stables, gardens, and outhouses, of the King's House, Westminster. Until sixty years
ago, when fire finally destroyed them, still stood on this spot many of the buildings, altered
and reroofed, repaired, and with changed windows and new decorations, of Edward the Confessor,
and perhaps of Knut. Still under these modern houses the ground is covered with the old cellars,
vaults and crypts, which it was found safer and cheaper to fill with cement than to break up
and carry away.

It is at present impossible to present a plan of the King's House such as it was when Edward
the Confessor occupied it; we can, however, draw an incomplete plan of the place later on,
say in the fourteenth century.

