[276] Ibid. x. 226.

[277] Works, x. 260. It is doubtful whether the letter was sent.

[278] The Panopticon story is confusedly told in Bowring's life. The Panopticon Correspondence,
in the eleventh volume, gives fragments from a 'history of the war between Jeremy Bentham and
George III.,' written by Bentham in 1830-31, and selections from a voluminous correspondence.

[279] Works, x. 301.

[280] Ibid. xi. 167.

[281] The plan, according to Bentham (Works, xi. 102), was suggested by Ruggles, author of
the work upon the poor-laws, first printed in Young's Annals.

[282] Works, viii. 440.

[283] Works, xi. 102-3.

[284] Ibid. x. 400.

[285] Works, xi. 144.

[286] For its later history see Memorials of Millbank, by Arthur Griffiths. 2 vols., 1875.

[287] Works, xi. 106.

[288] Ibid. x. 294.

[289] Wilberforce's Life, ii. 71.

[290] Works, x. 541.

IV. THE UTILITARIAN PROPAGANDA

Bentham in 1802 had reached the respectable age of fifty-four. He had published his first work
twenty-six years, and his most elaborate treatise thirteen years, previously. He had been brought
into contact with many of the eminent politicians and philanthropists of the day. Lansdowne
had been a friendly patron: his advice had been treated with respect by Pitt, Dundas, and even
by Blackstone; he was on friendly terms with Colquhoun, Sir F. Eden, Arthur Young, Wilberforce,
and others interested in philanthropic movements, and his name at least was known to some French
politicians. But his reputation was still obscure; and his connections did not develop into
intimacies. He lived as a recluse and avoided society. His introduction to great people at
Bowood had apparently rather increased than softened his shyness. The little circle of intimates,
Romilly and Wilson and his own brother, must have satisfied his needs for social intercourse.
It required an elaborate negotiation to bring about a meeting between him and Dr. Parr, the
great Whig prophet, although they had been previously acquainted, and Parr was, as Romilly
said by way of introduction, a profound admirer and universal panegyrist.[291] He refused to
be introduced by Parr to Fox, because he had 'nothing particular to say' to the statesman,
and considered that to be 'always a sufficient reason for declining acquaintance.'[292]

But, at last, Bentham's fame was to take a start. Bentham, I said, had long before found himself.
Dumont had now found Bentham. After long and tedious labours and multiplied communications
between the master and the disciple, Dumont in the spring of 1802 brought out his Traités de
Législation de M. Jérémie Bentham. The book was partly a translation from Bentham's published
and unpublished works,[293] and partly a statement of the pith of the new doctrine in Dumont's
own language. It had the great merit of putting Bentham's meaning vigorously and compactly,
and free from many of the digressions, minute discussions of minor points and arguments requiring
a special knowledge of English law, which had impeded the popularity of Bentham's previous works.

The Jacobin controversies were passing into the background: and Bentham began to attain a hearing
as a reformer upon different lines. In 1803 Dumont visited St. Petersburg, and sent home glowing
reports of Bentham's rising fame. As many copies of the Traités had been sold there as in London.
Codes were wanted; laws were being digested; and Bentham's work would supply the principles
and the classification. A magnificent translation was ordered, and Russian officials wrote
glowing letters in which Bentham was placed in a line with Bacon, Newton, and Adam Smith--each
the founder of a new science.[294] At home the new book was one of the objects of what Dumont
calls the 'scandalous irreverence' of the Edinburgh Review.[295] This refers to a review of
the Traités in the Edinburgh Review of April 1804. Although patronising in tone, and ridiculing
some of Bentham's doctrines as commonplace and condemning others as criminal, it paid some
high compliments to his ability. The irreverence meant at least that Bentham had become one
of the persons worth talking about, and that he was henceforth to influence the rising generation.
In January 1807 the Edinburgh itself (probably Jeffrey) suggested that Bentham should be employed
in a proposed reform of the Scottish judicial system. His old friend, Lansdowne, died on 7th
May 1805, and in one of his last letters expresses a hope that Bentham's principles are at
last beginning to spread.[296] The hope was fulfilled.

During the eighteenth century Benthamism had gone through its period of incubation. It was
now to become an active agency, to gather proselytes, and to have a marked influence not only
upon legislative but upon political movements. The immediate effect upon Bentham of the decline
of the Panopticon, and his consequent emancipation from immediately practical work, was apparently
his return to his more legitimate employment of speculative labour. He sent to Dumont at St.
Petersburg[297] part of the treatise upon Political Economy, which had been naturally suggested
by his later work: and he applied himself to the Scottish judiciary question, to which many
of his speculations had a close application. He published a work upon this subject in 1808.
To the period between 1802 and 1812 belongs also the book, or rather the collection of papers,
afterwards transformed into the book, upon Evidence, which is one of his most valuable performances.

A letter, dated 1st November 1810, gives a characteristic account of his position. He refers
to hopes of the acceptance of some of his principles in South America. In Spain Spaniards are
prepared to receive his laws 'as oracles.' 'Now at length, when I am just ready to drop into
the grave' (he had still twenty years of energetic work before him), 'my fame has spread itself
all over the civilised world.' Dumont's publication of 1802 is considered to have superseded
all previous writings on legislation. In Germany and France codes have been prepared by authorised
lawyers, who have 'sought to do themselves credit by references to that work.'[298] It has
been translated into Russian. Even in England he is often mentioned in books and in parliament.
'Meantime I am here scribbling on in my hermitage, never seeing anybody but for some special
reason, always bearing relation to the service of mankind.'[299] Making all due allowance for
the deceptive views of the outer world which haunt every 'hermitage,' it remains true that
Bentham's fame was emerging from obscurity.

The end of this period, moreover, was bringing him into closer contact with English political
life. Bentham, as we have seen, rejected the whole Jacobin doctrine of abstract rights. So
long as English politics meant either the acceptance of a theory which, for whatever reason,
gathered round it no solid body of support, or, on the other hand, the acceptance of an obstructive
and purely conservative principle, to which all reform was radically opposed, Bentham was necessarily
in an isolated position. He had 'nothing particular to say' to Fox. He was neither a Tory nor
a Jacobin, and cared little for the paralysed Whigs. He allied himself therefore, so far as
he was allied with any one, with the philanthropic agitators who stood, like him, outside the
lines of party. The improvement of prisons was not a party question. A marked change--not always,
I think, sufficiently emphasised by historians--had followed the second war. The party-divisions
began to take the form which was to become more marked as time went on. The old issues between
Jacobin and Anti-Jacobin no longer existed. Napoleon had become the heir of the revolution.
The great struggle was beginning in which England commanded the ocean, while the Continent
was at the feet of the empire. For a time the question was whether England, too, should be
invaded. After Trafalgar invasion became hopeless. The Napoleonic victories threatened to exclude
English trade from the Continent: while England retorted by declaring that the Continent should
trade with nobody else. Upon one side the war was now appealing to higher feelings. It was
no longer a crusade against theories, but a struggle for national existence and for the existence
of other nations threatened by a gigantic despotism. Men like Wordsworth and Coleridge, who
could not be Anti-Jacobins, had been first shocked by the Jacobin treatment of Switzerland,
and now threw themselves enthusiastically into the cause which meant the rescue of Spain and
Germany from foreign oppression. The generous feeling which had resented the attempt to forbid
Frenchmen to break their own bonds, now resented the attempts of Frenchmen to impose bonds
upon others. The patriotism which prompted to a crusade had seemed unworthy, but the patriotism
which was now allied with the patriotism of Spain and Germany involved no sacrifice of other
sentiment. Many men had sympathised with the early revolution, not so much from any strong
sentiment of evils at home as from a belief that the French movement was but a fuller development
of the very principles which were partially embodied in the British Constitution. They had
no longer to choose between sympathising with the enemies of England and sympathising with
the suppressors of the old English liberties.

