Upon their not submitting, he at once marched against Torone in Chalcidice, which was held
by an Athenian garrison, having been invited by a few persons who were prepared to hand over
the town. Arriving in the dark a little before daybreak, he sat down with his army near the
temple of the Dioscuri, rather more than a quarter of a mile from the city. The rest of the
town of Torone and the Athenians in garrison did not perceive his approach; but his partisans
knowing that he was coming (a few of them had secretly gone out to meet him) were on the watch
for his arrival, and were no sooner aware of it than they took it to them seven light-armed
men with daggers, who alone of twenty men ordered on this service dared to enter, commanded
by Lysistratus an Olynthian. These passed through the sea wall, and without being seen went
up and put to the sword the garrison of the highest post in the town, which stands on a hill,
and broke open the postern on the side of Canastraeum.

Brasidas meanwhile came a little nearer and then halted with his main body, sending on one
hundred targeteers to be ready to rush in first, the moment that a gate should be thrown open
and the beacon lighted as agreed. After some time passed in waiting and wondering at the delay,
the targeteers by degrees got up close to the town. The Toronaeans inside at work with the
party that had entered had by this time broken down the postern and opened the gates leading
to the market-place by cutting through the bar, and first brought some men round and let them
in by the postern, in order to strike a panic into the surprised townsmen by suddenly attacking
them from behind and on both sides at once; after which they raised the fire-signal as had
been agreed, and took in by the market gates the rest of the targeteers.

Brasidas seeing the signal told the troops to rise, and dashed forward amid the loud hurrahs
of his men, which carried dismay among the astonished townspeople. Some burst in straight by
the gate, others over some square pieces of timber placed against the wall (which has fallen
down and was being rebuilt) to draw up stones; Brasidas and the greater number making straight
uphill for the higher part of the town, in order to take it from top to bottom, and once for
all, while the rest of the multitude spread in all directions.

The capture of the town was effected before the great body of the Toronaeans had recovered
from their surprise and confusion; but the conspirators and the citizens of their party at
once joined the invaders. About fifty of the Athenian heavy infantry happened to be sleeping
in the market-place when the alarm reached them. A few of these were killed fighting; the rest
escaped, some by land, others to the two ships on the station, and took refuge in Lecythus,
a fort garrisoned by their own men in the corner of the town running out into the sea and cut
off by a narrow isthmus; where they were joined by the Toronaeans of their party.

Day now arrived, and the town being secured, Brasidas made a proclamation to the Toronaeans
who had taken refuge with the Athenians, to come out, as many as chose, to their homes without
fearing for their rights or persons, and sent a herald to invite the Athenians to accept a
truce, and to evacuate Lecythus with their property, as being Chalcidian ground. The Athenians
refused this offer, but asked for a truce for a day to take up their dead. Brasidas granted
it for two days, which he employed in fortifying the houses near, and the Athenians in doing
the same to their positions. Meanwhile he called a meeting of the Toronaeans, and said very
much what he had said at Acanthus, namely, that they must not look upon those who had negotiated
with him for the capture of the town as bad men or as traitors, as they had not acted as they
had done from corrupt motives or in order to enslave the city, but for the good and freedom
of Torone; nor again must those who had not shared in the enterprise fancy that they would
not equally reap its fruits, as he had not come to destroy either city or individual. This
was the reason of his proclamation to those that had fled for refuge to the Athenians: he thought
none the worse of them for their friendship for the Athenians; he believed that they had only
to make trial of the Lacedaemonians to like them as well, or even much better, as acting much
more justly: it was for want of such a trial that they were now afraid of them. Meanwhile he
warned all of them to prepare to be staunch allies, and for being held responsible for all
faults in future: for the past, they had not wronged the Lacedaemonians but had been wronged
by others who were too strong for them, and any opposition that they might have offered him
could be excused.

Having encouraged them with this address, as soon as the truce expired he made his attack upon
Lecythus; the Athenians defending themselves from a poor wall and from some houses with parapets.
One day they beat him off; the next the enemy were preparing to bring up an engine against
them from which they meant to throw fire upon the wooden defences, and the troops were already
coming up to the point where they fancied they could best bring up the engine, and where place
was most assailable; meanwhile the Athenians put a wooden tower upon a house opposite, and
carried up a quantity of jars and casks of water and big stones, and a large number of men
also climbed up. The house thus laden too heavily suddenly broke down with a loud crash; at
which the men who were near and saw it were more vexed than frightened; but those not so near,
and still more those furthest off, thought that the place was already taken at that point,
and fled in haste to the sea and the ships.

Brasidas, perceiving that they were deserting the parapet, and seeing what was going on, dashed
forward with his troops, and immediately took the fort, and put to the sword all whom he found
in it. In this way the place was evacuated by the Athenians, who went across in their boats
and ships to Pallene. Now there is a temple of Athene in Lecythus, and Brasidas had proclaimed
in the moment of making the assault that he would give thirty silver minae to the man first
on the wall. Being now of opinion that the capture was scarcely due to human means, he gave
the thirty minae to the goddess for her temple, and razed and cleared Lecythus, and made the
whole of it consecrated ground. The rest of the winter he spent in settling the places in his
hands, and in making designs upon the rest; and with the expiration of the winter the eighth
year of this war ended.

In the spring of the summer following, the Lacedaemonians and Athenians made an armistice for
a year; the Athenians thinking that they would thus have full leisure to take their precautions
before Brasidas could procure the revolt of any more of their towns, and might also, if it
suited them, conclude a general peace; the Lacedaemonians divining the actual fears of the
Athenians, and thinking that after once tasting a respite from trouble and misery they would
be more disposed to consent to a reconciliation, and to give back the prisoners, and make a
treaty for the longer period. The great idea of the Lacedaemonians was to get back their men
while Brasidas's good fortune lasted: further successes might make the struggle a less unequal
one in Chalcidice, but would leave them still deprived of their men, and even in Chalcidice
not more than a match for the Athenians and by no means certain of victory. An armistice was
accordingly concluded by Lacedaemon and her allies upon the terms following:

1. As to the temple and oracle of the Pythian Apollo, we are agreed that whosoever will shall
have access to it, without fraud or fear, according to the usages of his forefathers. The Lacedaemonians
and the allies present agree to this, and promise to send heralds to the Boeotians and Phocians,
and to do their best to persuade them to agree likewise.

2. As to the treasure of the god, we agree to exert ourselves to detect all malversators, truly
and honestly following the customs of our forefathers, we and you and all others willing to
do so, all following the customs of our forefathers. As to these points the Lacedaemonians
and the other allies are agreed as has been said.

3. As to what follows, the Lacedaemonians and the other allies agree, if the Athenians conclude
a treaty, to remain, each of us in our own territory, retaining our respective acquisitions:
the garrison in Coryphasium keeping within Buphras and Tomeus: that in Cythera attempting no
communication with the Peloponnesian confederacy, neither we with them, nor they with us: that
in Nisaea and Minoa not crossing the road leading from the gates of the temple of Nisus to
that of Poseidon and from thence straight to the bridge at Minoa: the Megarians and the allies
being equally bound not to cross this road, and the Athenians retaining the island they have
taken, without any communication on either side: as to Troezen, each side retaining what it
has, and as was arranged with the Athenians.

4. As to the use of the sea, so far as refers to their own coast and to that of their confederacy,
that the Lacedaemonians and their allies may voyage upon it in any vessel rowed by oars and
of not more than five hundred talents tonnage, not a vessel of war.

5. That all heralds and embassies, with as many attendants as they please, for concluding the
war and adjusting claims, shall have free passage, going and coming, to Peloponnese or Athens
by land and by sea.

6. That during the truce, deserters whether bond or free shall be received neither by you,
nor by us.

7. Further, that satisfaction shall be given by you to us and by us to you according to the
public law of our several countries, all disputes being settled by law without recourse to
hostilities.

The Lacedaemonians and allies agree to these articles; but if you have anything fairer or juster
to suggest, come to Lacedaemon and let us know: whatever shall be just will meet with no objection
either from the Lacedaemonians or from the allies. Only let those who come come with full powers,
as you desire us. The truce shall be for one year.

Approved by the people.

The tribe of Acamantis had the prytany, Phoenippus was secretary, Niciades chairman. Laches
moved, in the name of the good luck of the Athenians, that they should conclude the armistice
upon the terms agreed upon by the Lacedaemonians and the allies. It was agreed accordingly
in the popular assembly that the armistice should be for one year, beginning that very day,
the fourteenth of the month of Elaphebolion; during which time ambassadors and heralds should
go and come between the two countries to discuss the bases of a pacification. That the generals
and prytanes should call an assembly of the people, in which the Athenians should first consult
on the peace, and on the mode in which the embassy for putting an end to the war should be
admitted. That the embassy now present should at once take the engagement before the people
to keep well and truly this truce for one year.

On these terms the Lacedaemonians concluded with the Athenians and their allies on the twelfth
day of the Spartan month Gerastius; the allies also taking the oaths. Those who concluded and
poured the libation were Taurus, son of Echetimides, Athenaeus, son of Pericleidas, and Philocharidas,
son of Eryxidaidas, Lacedaemonians; Aeneas, son of Ocytus, and Euphamidas, son of Aristonymus,
Corinthians; Damotimus, son of Naucrates, and Onasimus, son of Megacles, Sicyonians; Nicasus,
son of Cecalus, and Menecrates, son of Amphidorus, Megarians; and Amphias, son of Eupaidas,
an Epidaurian; and the Athenian generals Nicostratus, son of Diitrephes, Nicias, son of Niceratus,
and Autocles, son of Tolmaeus. Such was the armistice, and during the whole of it conferences
went on on the subject of a pacification.

In the days in which they were going backwards and forwards to these conferences, Scione, a
town in Pallene, revolted from Athens, and went over to Brasidas. The Scionaeans say that they
are Pallenians from Peloponnese, and that their first founders on their voyage from Troy were
carried in to this spot by the storm which the Achaeans were caught in, and there settled.
The Scionaeans had no sooner revolted than Brasidas crossed over by night to Scione, with a
friendly galley ahead and himself in a small boat some way behind; his idea being that if he
fell in with a vessel larger than the boat he would have the galley to defend him, while a
ship that was a match for the galley would probably neglect the small vessel to attack the
large one, and thus leave him time to escape. His passage effected, he called a meeting of
the Scionaeans and spoke to the same effect as at Acanthus and Torone, adding that they merited
the utmost commendation, in that, in spite of Pallene within the isthmus being cut off by the
Athenian occupation of Potidaea and of their own practically insular position, they had of
their own free will gone forward to meet their liberty instead of timorously waiting until
they had been by force compelled to their own manifest good. This was a sign that they would
valiantly undergo any trial, however great; and if he should order affairs as he intended,
he should count them among the truest and sincerest friends of the Lacedaemonians, and would
in every other way honour them.

The Scionaeans were elated by his language, and even those who had at first disapproved of
what was being done catching the general confidence, they determined on a vigorous conduct
of the war, and welcomed Brasidas with all possible honours, publicly crowning him with a crown
of gold as the liberator of Hellas; while private persons crowded round him and decked him
with garlands as though he had been an athlete. Meanwhile Brasidas left them a small garrison
for the present and crossed back again, and not long afterwards sent over a larger force, intending
with the help of the Scionaeans to attempt Mende and Potidaea before the Athenians should arrive;
Scione, he felt, being too like an island for them not to relieve it. He had besides intelligence
in the above towns about their betrayal.

In the midst of his designs upon the towns in question, a galley arrived with the commissioners
carrying round the news of the armistice, Aristonymus for the Athenians and Athenaeus for the
Lacedaemonians. The troops now crossed back to Torone, and the commissioners gave Brasidas
notice of the convention. All the Lacedaemonian allies in Thrace accepted what had been done;
and Aristonymus made no difficulty about the rest, but finding, on counting the days, that
the Scionaeans had revolted after the date of the convention, refused to include them in it.
To this Brasidas earnestly objected, asserting that the revolt took place before, and would
not give up the town. Upon Aristonymus reporting the case to Athens, the people at once prepared
to send an expedition to Scione. Upon this, envoys arrived from Lacedaemon, alleging that this
would be a breach of the truce, and laying claim to the town upon the faith of the assertion
of Brasidas, and meanwhile offering to submit the question to arbitration. Arbitration, however,
was what the Athenians did not choose to risk; being determined to send troops at once to the
place, and furious at the idea of even the islanders now daring to revolt, in a vain reliance
upon the power of the Lacedaemonians by land. Besides the facts of the revolt were rather as
the Athenians contended, the Scionaeans having revolted two days after the convention. Cleon
accordingly succeeded in carrying a decree to reduce and put to death the Scionaeans; and the
Athenians employed the leisure which they now enjoyed in preparing for the expedition.

Meanwhile Mende revolted, a town in Pallene and a colony of the Eretrians, and was received
without scruple by Brasidas, in spite of its having evidently come over during the armistice,
on account of certain infringements of the truce alleged by him against the Athenians. This
audacity of Mende was partly caused by seeing Brasidas forward in the matter and by the conclusions
drawn from his refusal to betray Scione; and besides, the conspirators in Mende were few, and,
as I have already intimated, had carried on their practices too long not to fear detection
for themselves, and not to wish to force the inclination of the multitude. This news made the
Athenians more furious than ever, and they at once prepared against both towns. Brasidas, expecting
their arrival, conveyed away to Olynthus in Chalcidice the women and children of the Scionaeans
and Mendaeans, and sent over to them five hundred Peloponnesian heavy infantry and three hundred
Chalcidian targeteers, all under the command of Polydamidas.

Leaving these two towns to prepare together against the speedy arrival of the Athenians, Brasidas
and Perdiccas started on a second joint expedition into Lyncus against Arrhabaeus; the latter
with the forces of his Macedonian subjects, and a corps of heavy infantry composed of Hellenes
domiciled in the country; the former with the Peloponnesians whom he still had with him and
the Chalcidians, Acanthians, and the rest in such force as they were able. In all there were
about three thousand Hellenic heavy infantry, accompanied by all the Macedonian cavalry with
the Chalcidians, near one thousand strong, besides an immense crowd of barbarians. On entering
the country of Arrhabaeus, they found the Lyncestians encamped awaiting them, and themselves
took up a position opposite. The infantry on either side were upon a hill, with a plain between
them, into which the horse of both armies first galloped down and engaged a cavalry action.
After this the Lyncestian heavy infantry advanced from their hill to join their cavalry and
offered battle; upon which Brasidas and Perdiccas also came down to meet them, and engaged
and routed them with heavy loss; the survivors taking refuge upon the heights and there remaining
inactive. The victors now set up a trophy and waited two or three days for the Illyrian mercenaries
who were to join Perdiccas. Perdiccas then wished to go on and attack the villages of Arrhabaeus,
and to sit still no longer; but Brasidas, afraid that the Athenians might sail up during his
absence, and of something happening to Mende, and seeing besides that the Illyrians did not
appear, far from seconding this wish was anxious to return.

While they were thus disputing, the news arrived that the Illyrians had actually betrayed Perdiccas
and had joined Arrhabaeus; and the fear inspired by their warlike character made both parties
now think it best to retreat. However, owing to the dispute, nothing had been settled as to
when they should start; and night coming on, the Macedonians and the barbarian crowd took fright
in a moment in one of those mysterious panics to which great armies are liable; and persuaded
that an army many times more numerous than that which had really arrived was advancing and
all but upon them, suddenly broke and fled in the direction of home, and thus compelled Perdiccas,
who at first did not perceive what had occurred, to depart without seeing Brasidas, the two
armies being encamped at a considerable distance from each other. At daybreak Brasidas, perceiving
that the Macedonians had gone on, and that the Illyrians and Arrhabaeus were on the point of
attacking him, formed his heavy infantry into a square, with the light troops in the centre,
and himself also prepared to retreat. Posting his youngest soldiers to dash out wherever the
enemy should attack them, he himself with three hundred picked men in the rear intended to
face about during the retreat and beat off the most forward of their assailants, Meanwhile,
before the enemy approached, he sought to sustain the courage of his soldiers with the following
hasty exhortation:

"Peloponnesians, if I did not suspect you of being dismayed at being left alone to sustain
the attack of a numerous and barbarian enemy, I should just have said a few words to you as
usual without further explanation. As it is, in the face of the desertion of our friends and
the numbers of the enemy, I have some advice and information to offer, which, brief as they
must be, will, I hope, suffice for the more important points. The bravery that you habitually
display in war does not depend on your having allies at your side in this or that encounter,
but on your native courage; nor have numbers any terrors for citizens of states like yours,
in which the many do not rule the few, but rather the few the many, owing their position to
nothing else than to superiority in the field. Inexperience now makes you afraid of barbarians;
and yet the trial of strength which you had with the Macedonians among them, and my own judgment,
confirmed by what I hear from others, should be enough to satisfy you that they will not prove
formidable. Where an enemy seems strong but is really weak, a true knowledge of the facts makes
his adversary the bolder, just as a serious antagonist is encountered most confidently by those
who do not know him. Thus the present enemy might terrify an inexperienced imagination; they
are formidable in outward bulk, their loud yelling is unbearable, and the brandishing of their
weapons in the air has a threatening appearance. But when it comes to real fighting with an
opponent who stands his ground, they are not what they seemed; they have no regular order that
they should be ashamed of deserting their positions when hard pressed; flight and attack are
with them equally honourable, and afford no test of courage; their independent mode of fighting
never leaving any one who wants to run away without a fair excuse for so doing. In short, they
think frightening you at a secure distance a surer game than meeting you hand to hand; otherwise
they would have done the one and not the other. You can thus plainly see that the terrors with
which they were at first invested are in fact trifling enough, though to the eye and ear very
prominent. Stand your ground therefore when they advance, and again wait your opportunity to
retire in good order, and you will reach a place of safety all the sooner, and will know for
ever afterwards that rabble such as these, to those who sustain their first attack, do but
show off their courage by threats of the terrible things that they are going to do, at a distance,
but with those who give way to them are quick enough to display their heroism in pursuit when
they can do so without danger."

