The variety of purposes to which iron is thus capable of being applied, renders it of more
use to mankind than all the other metals combined. Unlike iron, gold is found pure, and in
an almost workable state; and at an early period in history, it seems to have been much more
plentiful than iron or steel.  But gold was unsuited for the purposes of tools, and would serve
for neither a saw, a chisel, an axe, nor a sword; whilst tempered steel could answer all these
purposes.  Hence we find the early warlike nations making the backs of their swords of gold
or copper, and economizing their steel to form the cutting edge.  This is illustrated by many
ancient Scandinavian weapons in the museum at Copenhagen, which indicate the greatest parsimony
in the use of steel at a period when both gold and copper appear to have been comparatively
abundant.

The knowledge of smelting and working in iron, like most other arts, came from the East.  Iron
was especially valued for purposes of war, of which indeed it was regarded as the symbol, being
called "Mars" by the Romans.[6]  We find frequent mention of it in the Bible.  One of the earliest
notices of the metal is in connexion with the conquest of Judea by the Philistines.  To complete
the subjection of the Israelites, their conquerors made captive all the smiths of the land,
and carried them away.  The Philistines felt that their hold of the country was insecure so
long as the inhabitants possessed the means of forging weapons. [7]

At a later period, when Jerusalem was taken by the Babylonians, one of their first acts was
to carry the smiths and other craftsmen captives to Babylon.[8]  Deprived of their armourers,
the Jews were rendered comparatively powerless.

It was the knowledge of the art of iron-forging which laid the foundation of the once great
empire of the Turks.  Gibbon relates that these people were originally the despised slaves
of the powerful Khan of the Geougen.  They occupied certain districts of the mountain-ridge
in the centre of Asia, called Imaus, Caf, and Altai, which yielded iron in large quantities.
This metal the Turks were employed by the Khan to forge for his use in war.  A bold leader
arose among them, who persuaded the ironworkers that the arms which they forged for their masters
might in their own hands become the instruments of freedom. Sallying forth from their mountains,
they set up their standard, and their weapons soon freed them.

We can only conjecture how the art of smelting iron was discovered. Who first applied fire
to the ore, and made it plastic; who discovered fire itself, and its uses in metallurgy? No
one can tell.  Tradition says that the metal was discovered through the accidental burning
of a wood in Greece.  Mr. Mushet thinks it more probable that the discovery was made on the
conversion of wood into charcoal for culinary or chamber purposes.  "If a mass of ore," he
says, "accidentally dropped into the middle of the burning pile during a period of neglect,
or during the existence of a thorough draught, a mixed mass, partly earthy and partly metallic,
would be obtained, possessing ductility and extension under pressure.  But if the conjecture
is pushed still further, and we suppose that the ore was not an oxide, but rich in iron, magnetic
or spicular, the result would in all probability be a mass of perfectly malleable iron.  I
have seen this fact illustrated in the roasting of a species of iron-stone, which was united
with a considerable mass of bituminous matter.  After a high temperature had been excited in
the interior of the pile, plates of malleable iron of a tough and flexible nature were formed,
and under circumstances where there was no fuel but that furnished by the ore itself." [9]

The metal once discovered, many attempts would be made to give to that which had been the effect
of accident a more unerring result.  The smelting of ore in an open heap of wood or charcoal
being found tedious and wasteful, as well as uncertain, would naturally lead to the invention
of a furnace; with the object of keeping the ore surrounded as much as possible with fuel while
the process of conversion into iron was going forward.  The low conical furnaces employed at
this day by some of the tribes of Central and Southern Africa, are perhaps very much the same
in character as those adopted by the early tribes of all countries where iron was first made.
Small openings at the lower end of the cone to admit the air, and a larger orifice at the top,
would, with charcoal, be sufficient to produce the requisite degree of heat for the reduction
of the ore.  To this the foot-blast was added, as still used in Ceylon and in India; and afterwards
the water-blast, as employed in Spain (where it is known as the Catalan forge), along the coasts
of the Mediterranean, and in some parts of America.

It is worthy of remark, that the ruder the method employed for the reduction of the ore, the
better the quality of the iron usually is. Where the art is little advanced, only the most
tractable ores are selected; and as charcoal is the only fuel used, the quality of the metal
is almost invariably excellent.  The ore being long exposed to the charcoal fire, and the quantity
made small, the result is a metal having many of the qualities of steel, capable of being used
for weapons or tools after a comparatively small amount of forging.  Dr. Livingstone speaks
of the excellent quality of the iron made by the African tribes on the Zambesi, who refuse
to use ordinary English iron, which they consider "rotten." [10]  Du Chaillu also says of the
Fans, that, in making their best knives and arrow-heads, they will not use European or American
iron, greatly preferring their own.  The celebrated wootz or steel of India, made in little
cakes of only about two pounds weight, possesses qualities which no European steel can surpass.
Out of this material the famous Damascus sword-blades were made; and its use for so long a
period is perhaps one of the most striking proofs of the ancient civilization of India.

The early history of iron in Britain is necessarily very obscure.  When the Romans invaded
the country, the metal seems to have been already known to the tribes along the coast.  The
natives had probably smelted it themselves in their rude bloomeries, or obtained it from the
Phoenicians in small quantities in exchange for skins and food, or tin. We must, however, regard
the stories told of the ancient British chariots armed with swords or scythes as altogether
apocryphal.  The existence of iron in sufficient quantity to be used for such a purpose is
incompatible with contemporary facts, and unsupported by a single vestige remaining to our
time.  The country was then mostly forest, and the roads did not as yet exist upon which chariots
could be used; whilst iron was too scarce to be mounted as scythes upon chariots, when the
warriors themselves wanted it for swords.  The orator Cicero, in a letter to Trebatius, then
serving with the army in Britain, sarcastically advised him to capture and convey one of these
vehicles to Italy for exhibition; but we do not hear that any specimen of the British war-chariot
was ever seen in Rome.

It is only in the tumuli along the coast, or in those of the Romano-British period, that iron
implements are ever found; whilst in the ancient burying places of the interior of the country
they are altogether wanting.  Herodian says of the British pursued by Severus through the fens
and marshes of the east coast, that they wore iron hoops round their middles and their necks,
esteeming them as ornaments and tokens of riches, in like manner as other barbarous people
then esteemed ornaments of silver and gold.  Their only money, according to Caesar, consisted
of pieces of brass or iron, reduced to a certain standard weight.[11]  It is particularly important
to observe, says M. Worsaae, that all the antiquities which have hitherto been found in the
large burying places of the Iron period, in Switzerland, Bavaria, Baden, France, England, and
the North, exhibit traces more or less of Roman influence.[12]  The Romans themselves used
weapons of bronze when they could not obtain iron in sufficient quantity, and many of the Roman
weapons dug out of the ancient tumuli are of that metal.  They possessed the art of tempering
and hardening bronze to such a degree as to enable them to manufacture swords with it of a
pretty good edge; and in those countries which they penetrated, their bronze implements gradually
supplanted those which had been previously fashioned of stone.  Great quantities of bronze
tools have been found in different parts of England,--sometimes in heaps, as if they had been
thrown away in basketfuls as things of little value.  It has been conjectured that when the
Romans came into Britain they found the inhabitants, especially those to the northward, in
very nearly the same state as Captain Cook and other voyagers found the inhabitants of the
South Sea Islands; that the Britons parted with their food and valuables for tools of inferior
metal made in imitation of their stone ones; but finding themselves cheated by the Romans,
as the natives of Otaheite have been cheated by Europeans, the Britons relinquished the bad
tools when they became acquainted with articles made of better metal.[13] The Roman colonists
were the first makers of iron in Britain on any large scale.  They availed themselves of the
mineral riches of the country wherever they went.  Every year brings their extraordinary industrial
activity more clearly to light.  They not only occupied the best sites for trade, intersected
the land with a complete system of well-constructed roads, studded our hills and valleys with
towns, villages, and pleasure-houses, and availed themselves of our medicinal springs for purposes
of baths to an extent not even exceeded at this day, but they explored our mines and quarries,
and carried on the smelting and manufacture of metals in nearly all parts of the island. The
heaps of mining refuse left by them in the valleys and along the hill-sides of North Derbyshire
are still spoken of by the country people as "old man," or the "old man's work."  Year by year,
from Dartmoor to the Moray Firth, the plough turns up fresh traces of their indefatigable industry
and enterprise, in pigs of lead, implements of iron and bronze, vessels of pottery, coins,
and sculpture; and it is a remarkable circumstance that in several districts where the existence
of extensive iron beds had not been dreamt of until within the last twenty years, as in Northamptonshire
and North Yorkshire, the remains of ancient workings recently discovered show that the Roman
colonists were fully acquainted with them.

But the principal iron mines worked by that people were those which were most conveniently
situated for purposes of exportation, more especially in the southern counties and on the borders
of Wales.  The extensive cinder heaps found in the--Forest of Dean--which formed the readiest
resource of the modern iron-smelter when improved processes enabled him to reduce them--show
that their principal iron manufactures were carried on in that quarter.[14]  It is indeed matter
of history, that about seventeen hundred years since (A.D. 120) the Romans had forges in the
West of England, both in the Forest of Dean and in South Wales; and that they sent the metal
from thence to Bristol, where it was forged and made into weapons for the use of the troops.
Along the banks of the Wye, the ground is in many places a continuous bed of iron cinders,
in which numerous remains have been found, furnishing unmistakeable proofs of the Roman furnaces.
At the same time, the iron ores of Sussex were extensively worked, as appears from the cinder
heaps found at Maresfield and several places in that county, intermixed with Roman pottery,
coins, and other remains.  In a bed of scoriae several acres in extent, at Old Land Farm in
Maresfield, the Rev. Mr. Turner found the remains of Roman pottery so numerous that scarcely
a barrow-load of cinders was removed that did not contain several fragments, together with
coins of the reigns of Nero, Vespasian, and Dioclesian.[15]  In the turbulent infancy of nations
it is to be expected that we should hear more of the Smith, or worker in iron, in connexion
with war, than with more peaceful pursuits.  Although he was a nail-maker and a horse-shoer--made
axes, chisels, saws, and hammers for the artificer--spades and hoes for the farmer--bolts and
fastenings for the lord's castle-gates, and chains for his draw-bridge--it was principally
because of his skill in armour-work that he was esteemed. He made and mended the weapons used
in the chase and in war--the gavelocs, bills, and battle-axes; he tipped the bowmen's arrows,
and furnished spear-heads for the men-at-arms; but, above all, he forged the mail-coats and
cuirasses of the chiefs, and welded their swords, on the temper and quality of which, life,
honour, and victory in battle depended.  Hence the great estimation in which the smith was
held in the Anglo-Saxon times.  His person was protected by a double penalty. He was treated
as an officer of the highest rank, and awarded the first place in precedency.  After him ranked
the maker of mead, and then the physician.  In the royal court of Wales he sat in the great
hall with the king and queen, next to the domestic chaplain; and even at that early day there
seems to have been a hot spark in the smith's throat which needed much quenching; for he was
"entitled to a draught of every kind of liquor that was brought into the hall."

The smith was thus a mighty man.  The Saxon Chronicle describes the valiant knight himself
as a "mighty war-smith."  But the smith was greatest of all in his forging of swords; and the
bards were wont to sing the praises of the knight's "good sword" and of the smith who made
it, as well as of the knight himself who wielded it in battle.  The most extraordinary powers
were attributed to the weapon of steel when first invented.  Its sharpness seemed so marvellous
when compared with one of bronze, that with the vulgar nothing but magic could account for
it.  Traditions, enshrined in fairy tales, still survive in most countries, illustrative of
its magical properties.  The weapon of bronze was dull; but that of steel was bright--the "white
sword of light," one touch of which broke spells, liberated enchanted princesses, and froze
giants' marrow.  King Arthur's magic sword "Excalibur" was regarded as almost heroic in the
romance of chivalry.[16]  So were the swords "Galatin" of Sir Gawain, and "Joyeuse" of Charlemagne,
both of which were reputed to be the work of Weland the Smith, about whose name clusters so
much traditional glory as an ancient worker in metals.[17]  The heroes of the Northmen in like
manner wielded magic swords.  Olave the Norwegian possessed the sword "Macabuin," forged by
the dark smith of Drontheim, whose feats are recorded in the tales of the Scalds.  And so,
in like manner, traditions of the supernatural power of the blacksmith are found existing to
this day all over the Scottish Highlands.[18]  When William the Norman invaded Britain, he
was well supplied with smiths.  His followers were clad in armour of steel, and furnished with
the best weapons of the time.  Indeed, their superiority in this respect is supposed to have
been the principal cause of William's victory over Harold; for the men of both armies were
equal in point of bravery.  The Normans had not only smiths to attend to the arms of the knights,
but farriers to shoe their horses.  Henry de Femariis, or Ferrers, "prefectus fabrorum," was
one of the principal officers entrusted with the supervision of the Conqueror's ferriery department;
and long after the earldom was founded his descendants continued to bear on their coat of arms
the six horse-shoes indicative of their origin.[19]  William also gave the town of Northampton,
with the hundred of Fackley, as a fief to Simon St.  Liz, in consideration of his providing
shoes for his horses.[20]  But though the practice of horse-shoeing is said to have been introduced
to this country at the time of the Conquest, it is probably of an earlier date; as, according
to Dugdale, an old Saxon tenant in capite of Welbeck in Nottinghamshire, named Gamelbere, held
two carucates of land by the service of shoeing the king's palfrey on all four feet with the
king's nails, as oft as the king should lie at the neighbouring manor of Mansfield.

Although we hear of the smith mostly in connexion with the fabrication of instruments of war
in the Middle Ages, his importance was no less recognized in the ordinary affairs of rural
and industrial life.  He was, as it were, the rivet that held society together.  Nothing could
be done without him.  Wherever tools or implements were wanted for building, for trade, or
for husbandry, his skill was called into requisition.  In remote places he was often the sole
mechanic of his district; and, besides being a tool-maker, a farrier, and agricultural implement
maker, he doctored cattle, drew teeth, practised phlebotomy, and sometimes officiated as parish
clerk and general newsmonger; for the smithy was the very eye and tongue of the village.

The smith's tools were of many sorts; but the chief were his hammer, pincers, chisel, tongs,
and anvil.  It is astonishing what a variety of articles he turned out of his smithy by the
help of these rude implements.  In the tooling, chasing, and consummate knowledge of the capabilities
of iron, he greatly surpassed the modern workman; for the mediaeval blacksmith was an artist
as well as a workman.  The numerous exquisite specimens of his handicraft which exist in our
old gateways, church doors, altar railings, and ornamented dogs and andirons, still serve as
types for continual reproduction.  He was, indeed, the most "cunninge workman" of his time.
But besides all this, he was an engineer.  If a road had to be made, or a stream embanked,
or a trench dug, he was invariably called upon to provide the tools, and often to direct the
work.  He was also the military engineer of his day, and as late as the reign of Edward III.
we find the king repeatedly sending for smiths from the Forest of Dean to act as engineers
for the royal army at the siege of Berwick.

The smith being thus the earliest and most important of mechanics, it will readily be understood
how, at the time when surnames were adopted, his name should have been so common in all European
countries.

    "From whence came Smith, all be he knight or squire,
     But from the smith that forgeth in the fire?" [21]

Hence the multitudinous family of Smiths in England, in some cases vainly disguised under the
"Smythe" or "De Smijthe;" in Germany, the Schmidts; in Italy, the Fabri, Fabricii, or Fabbroni;
in France, the Le Febres or Lefevres; in Scotland, the Gows, Gowans, or Cowans.  We have also
among us the Brownsmiths, or makers of brown bills; the Nasmyths, or nailsmiths; the Arrowsmiths,
or makers of arrowheads; the Spearsmiths, or spear makers; the Shoosmiths, or horse shoers;
the Goldsmiths, or workers in gold; and many more.  The Smith proper was, however, the worker
in iron--the maker of iron tools, implements, and arms--and hence this name exceeds in number
that of all the others combined.

In course of time the smiths of particular districts began to distinguish themselves for their
excellence in particular branches of iron-work.  From being merely the retainer of some lordly
or religious establishment, the smith worked to supply the general demand, and gradually became
a manufacturer.  Thus the makers of swords, tools, bits, and nails, congregated at Birmingham;
and the makers of knives and arrowheads at Sheffield.  Chaucer speaks of the Miller of Trompington
as provided with a Sheffield whittle:--

    "A Shefeld thwytel bare he in his hose." [22]

The common English arrowheads manufactured at Sheffield were long celebrated for their excellent
temper, as Sheffield iron and steel plates are now.  The battle of Hamildon, fought in Scotland
in 1402, was won mainly through their excellence.  The historian records that they penetrated
the armour of the Earl of Douglas, which had been three years in making; and they were "so
sharp and strong that no armour could repel them."  The same arrowheads were found equally
efficient against French armour on the fields of Crecy and Agincourt.

Although Scotland is now one of the principal sources from which our supplies of iron are drawn,
it was in ancient times greatly distressed for want of the metal.  The people were as yet too
little skilled to be able to turn their great mineral wealth to account.  Even in the time
of Wallace, they had scarcely emerged from the Stone period, and were under the necessity of
resisting their iron-armed English adversaries by means of rude weapons of that material. 
To supply themselves with swords and spearheads, they imported steel from Flanders, and the
rest they obtained by marauding incursions into England.  The district of Furness in Lancashire--then
as now an iron-producing district--was frequently ravaged with that object; and on such occasions
the Scotch seized and carried off all the manufactured iron they could find, preferring it,
though so heavy, to every other kind of plunder.[23] About the same period, however, iron must
have been regarded as almost a precious metal even in England itself; for we find that in Edward
the Third's reign, the pots, spits, and frying-pans of the royal kitchen were classed among
his Majesty's jewels.[24]

The same famine of iron prevailed to a still greater extent in the Highlands, where it was
even more valued, as the clans lived chiefly by hunting, and were in an almost constant state
of feud.  Hence the smith was a man of indispensable importance among the Highlanders, and
the possession of a skilful armourer was greatly valued by the chiefs.  The story is told of
some delinquency having been committed by a Highland smith, on whom justice must be done; but
as the chief could not dispense with the smith, he generously offered to hang two weavers in
his stead!

