Celia, in one of her letters--it was during her first year at a woman's college, when the development
of muscle in gymnastics, running, and the vigorous game of ball was largely engaging the attention
of this enthusiastic young lady--took him to task for his inactivity. "This is the age of muscle,"
she wrote; "the brain is useless in a flabby body, and probably the brain itself is nothing
but concentrated intelligent muscle. I don't know how men are coming out, but women will never
get the position they have the right to occupy until they are physically the equals of men."

Philip had replied, banteringly, that if that were so he had no desire to enter in a physical
competition with women, and that men had better look out for another field.

But later on, when Celia had got into the swing of the classics, and was training for a part
in the play of "Antigone," she wrote in a different strain, though she would have denied that
the change had any relation to the fact that she had strained her back in a rowing-match. She
did not apologize for her former advice, but she was all aglow about the Greek drama, and made
reference to Aspasia as an intellectual type of what women might become. "I didn't ever tell
you how envious I used to be when you were studying Greek with that old codger in Rivervale,
and could talk about Athens and all that. Next time we meet, I can tell you, it will be Greek
meets Greek. I do hope you have not dropped the classics and gone in for the modern notion
of being real and practical. If I ever hear of your writing 'real' poetry--it is supposed to
be real if it is in dialect or misspelled! never will write you again, much less speak to you."

Whatever this decided young woman was doing at the time she was sure was the best for everybody
to do, and especially for Master Phil.

Now that the days of preparation were over, and Philip found himself in New York, face to face
with the fact that he had nowhere to look for money to meet the expense of rent, board, and
clothes except to his own daily labor, and that there was another economy besides that which
he had practiced as to luxuries, there were doubtless hours when his faith wavered a little
in the wisdom of the decision that had invested all his patrimony in himself. He had been fortunate,
to be sure, in securing a clerk's desk in the great law-office of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle, and
he had the kindly encouragement of the firm that, with close application to business, he would
make his way. But even in this he had his misgivings, for a great part of his acquirements,
and those he most valued, did not seem to be of any use in his office-work. He had a lofty
conception of his chosen profession, as the right arm in the administration of justice between
man and man. In practice, however, it seemed to him that the object was to win a case rather
than to do justice in a case. Unfortunately, also, he had cultivated his imagination to the
extent that he could see both sides of a case. To see both sides is indeed the requisite of
a great lawyer, but to see the opposite side only in order to win, as in looking over an opponent's
hand in a game of cards. It seemed to Philip that this clear perception would paralyze his
efforts for one side if he knew it was the wrong side. The argument was that every cause a
man's claim or his defense--ought to be presented in its fullness and urged with all the advocate's
ingenuity, and that the decision was in the bosom of an immaculate justice on the bench and
the unbiased intelligence in the jury-box. This might be so. But Philip wondered what would
be the effect on his own character and on his intellect if he indulged much in the habit of
making the worse appear the better cause, and taking up indifferently any side that paid. For
himself, he was inclined always to advise clients to "settle," and he fancied that if the occupation
of the lawyer was to explain the case to people ignorant of it, and to champion only the right
side, as it appeared to an unprejudiced, legally trained mind, and to compose instead of encouraging
differences, the law would indeed be a noble profession, and the natural misunderstandings,
ignorance, and different points of view would make business enough.

"Stuff!" said Mr. Sharp. "If you begin by declining causes you disapprove of, the public will
end by letting you alone in your self-conceited squeamishness. It's human nature you've got
to deal with, not theories about law and justice. I tell you that men like litigation. They
want to have it out with somebody. And it is better than fisticuffs."

From Mr. Hunt, who moved in the serener upper currents of the law, Philip got more satisfaction.

"Of course, Mr. Burnett, there are miserable squabbles in the law practice, and contemptible
pettifoggers and knaves, and men who will sell themselves for any dirty work, as there are
in most professions and occupations, but the profession could not exist for a day if it was
not on the whole on the side of law and order and justice.

"No doubt it needs from time to time criticism and reformation. So does the church. You look
at the characters of the really great lawyers! And there is another thing. In dealing with
the cases of our complex life, there is no accomplishment, no learning in science, art, or
literature, that the successful practitioner will not find it very advantageous to possess.
And a lawyer will never be eminent who has not imagination."

Philip thought he had a very good chance of exercising his imagination in the sky chamber where
he slept--a capital situation from which to observe the world. There could not have been an
uglier view created--a shapeless mass of brick and stone and painted wood, a collected, towering
monstrosity of rectangular and inharmonious lines, a realized dream of hideousness--but for
the splendid sky, always changing and doing all that was possible in the gleams and shadows
and the glowing colors of morning and evening to soften the ambitious work of man; but for
the wide horizon, with patches of green shores and verdant flats washed by the kindly tide;
but for the Highlands and Staten Island, the gateway to the ocean; but for the great river
and the mighty bay shimmering and twinkling and often iridescent, and the animated life of
sails and steamers, the leviathans of commerce and the playthings of pleasure, and the beetle-like,
monstrous ferry-boats that pushed their noses through all the confusion, like intelligent,
business-like saurians that knew how to keep an appointed line by a clumsy courtesy of apparent
yielding. Yes, there was life enough in all this, and inspiration, if one only knew what to
be inspired about.

When Philip came home from the office at sunset, through the bustling streets, and climbed
up to his perch, he insensibly brought with him something of the restless energy and strife
of the city, and in this mood the prospect before him took on a certain significance of great
things accomplished, of the highest form of human energy and achievement; he was a part of
this exuberant, abundant life, to succeed in the struggle seemed easy, and for the moment he
possessed what he saw.

The little room had space enough for a cot bed, a toilet-stand, a couple of easy-chairs--an
easy-chair is the one article of furniture absolutely necessary to a reflecting student--some
well-filled book-shelves, a small writing-desk, and a tiny closet quite large enough for a
wardrobe which seemed to have no disposition to grow. Except for the books and the writing-desk,
with its heterogeneous manuscripts, unfinished or rejected, there was not much in the room
to indicate the taste of its occupant, unless you knew that his taste was exhibited rather
by what he excluded from the room than by what it contained. It must be confessed that, when
Philip was alone with his books and his manuscripts, his imagination did not expand in the
directions that would have seemed profitable to the head of his firm. That life of the town
which was roaring in his ears, that panorama of prosperity spread before him, related themselves
in his mind not so much as incitements to engage in the quarrels of his profession as something
demanding study and interpretation, something much more human than processes and briefs and
arguments. And it was a dark omen for his success that the world interested him much more for
itself than for what he could make out of it. Make something to be sure he must--so long as
he was only a law clerk on a meagre salary--and it was this necessity that had much to do with
the production of the manuscripts. It was a joke on Philip in his club--by-the-way, the half-yearly
dues were not far off--that he was doing splendidly in the law; he already had an extensive
practice in chambers!

The law is said to be a jealous mistress, but literature is a young lady who likes to be loved
for herself alone, and thinks permission to adore is sufficient reward for her votary. Common-sense
told Philip that the jealous mistress would flout him and land him in failure if he gave her
a half-hearted service; but the other young lady, the Helen of the professions, was always
beckoning him and alluring him by the most subtle arts, occupying all his hours with meditations
on her grace and beauty, till it seemed the world were well lost for her smile. And the fascinating
jade never hinted that devotion to her brought more drudgery and harassment and pain than any
other service in the world. It would not have mattered if she had been frank, and told him
that her promise of eternal life was illusory and her rewards commonly but a flattering of
vanity. There was no resisting her enchantments, and he would rather follow her through a world
of sin and suffering, pursuing her radiant form over bog and moor, in penury and heartache,
for one sunrise smile and one glimpse of her sunset heaven, than to walk at ease with a commonplace
maiden on any illumined and well-trod highway.

V

It is the desire of every ambitious soul to, enter Literature by the front door, and the few
who have patience and money enough to live without the aid of the beckoning Helen may enter
there. But a side entrance is the destiny of most aspirants, even those with the golden key
of genius, and they are a long time in working their way to be seen coming out, of the front
entrance. It is true that a man can attract considerable and immediate attention by trying
to effect an entrance through the sewer, but he seldom gains the respect of the public whom
he interests, any more than an exhibitor of fireworks gains the reputation of an artist that
is accorded to the painter of a good picture.

Philip was waiting at the front door, with his essays and his prose symphonies and his satirical
novel--the satire of a young man is apt to be very bitter--but it was as tightly shut against
him as if a publisher and not the muse of literature kept the door.

There was a fellow-boarder with Philip, whose acquaintance he had made at the common table
in the basement, who appeared to be free of the world of letters and art. He was an alert,
compact, neatly dressed little fellow, who had apparently improved every one of his twenty-eight
years in the study of life, in gaining assurance and confidence in himself, and also presented
himself as one who knew the nether world completely but was not of it. He would have said of
himself that he knew it profoundly, that he frequented it for "material," but that his home
was in another sphere. The impression was that he belonged among those brilliant guerrillas
of both sexes, in the border-land of art and society, who lived daintily and talked about life
with unconventional freedom. Slight in figure, with very black hair, and eyes of cloudy gray,
an olive complexion, and features trained to an immobility proof against emotion or surprise,
the whole poised as we would say in the act of being gentlemanly, it is needless to say that
he took himself seriously. His readiness, self-confidence, cocksureness, Philip thought all
expressed in his name--Olin Brad.

Mr. Brad was not a Bohemian--that is, not at all a Bohemian of the recognized type. His fashionable
dress, closely trimmed hair, and dainty boots took him out of that class. He belonged to the
new order, which seems to have come in with modern journalism--that is, Bohemian in principle,
but of the manners and apparel of the favored of fortune. Mr. Brad was undoubtedly clever,
and was down as a bright young man in the list of those who employed talent which was not dulled
by conscientious scruples. He had stood well in college, during three years in Europe he had
picked up two or three languages, dissipated his remaining small fortune, acquired expensive
tastes, and knowledge, both esoteric and exoteric, that was valuable to him in his present
occupation. Returning home fully equipped for a modern literary career, and finding after some
bitter experience that his accomplishments were not taken or paid for at their real value by
the caterers for intellectual New York, he had dropped into congenial society on the staff
of the Daily Spectrum, a mighty engine of public opinion, which scattered about the city and
adjacent territory a million of copies, as prodigally as if they had been auctioneers' announcements.
Fastidious people who did not read it gave it a bad name, not recognizing the classic and heroic
attitude of those engaged in pitchforking up and turning over the muck of the Augean stables
under the pretense of cleaning them.

Mr. Brad had a Socratic contempt for this sort of fault-finding. It was answer enough to say,
"It pays. The people like it or they wouldn't buy it. It commands the best talent in the market
and can afford to pay for it; even clergymen like to appear in its columns--they say it's a
providential chance to reach the masses. And look at the 'Morning GooGoo' (this was his nickname
for one of the older dailies), it couldn't pay its paper bills if it hadn't such a small circulation."

Mr. Brad, however, was not one of the editors, though the acceptance of an occasional short
editorial, sufficiently piquant and impudent and vivid in language--to suit, had given him
hopes. He was salaried, but under orders for special service, and was always in the hope that
the execution of each new assignment would bring him into popular notice, which would mean
an advance of position and pay.

Philip was impressed with the ready talent, the adaptable talent, and the facility of this
accomplished journalist, and as their acquaintance improved he was let into many of the secrets
of success in the profession.

"It isn't an easy thing," said Mr. Brad, "to cater to a public that gets tired of anything
in about three days. But it is just as well satisfied with a contradiction as with the original
statement. It calls both news. You have to watch out and see what the people want, and give
it to 'em. It is something like the purveying of the manufacturers and the dry-goods jobber
for the changing trade in fashions; only the newspaper has the advantage that it can turn a
somersault every day and not have any useless stock left on hand.

"The public hasn't any memory, or, if it has, this whirligig process destroys it. What it will
not submit to is the lack of a daily surprise. Keep that in your mind and you can make a popular
newspaper. Only," continued Mr. Brad, reflectively, "you've got to hit a lot of different tastes."

"You'd laugh," this artist in emotions went on, after a little pause, "at some of my assignments.
There was a run awhile ago on elopements, and my assignment was to have one every Monday morning.
The girl must always be lovely and refined and moving in the best society; elopement with the
coachman preferred, varied with a teacher in a Sunday-school. Invented? Not always. It was
surprising how many you could find ready made, if you were on the watch. I got into the habit
of locating them in the interior of Pennsylvania as the safest place, though Jersey seemed
equally probable to the public. Did I never get caught? That made it all the more lively and
interesting. Denials, affidavits, elaborate explanations, two sides to any question; if it
was too hot, I could change the name and shift the scene to a still more obscure town. Or it
could be laid to the zeal of a local reporter, who could give the most ingenious reasons for
his story. Once I worked one of those imaginary reporters up into such prominence for his clever
astuteness that my boss was taken in, and asked me to send for him and give him a show on the
paper.

"Oh, yes, we have to keep up the domestic side. A paper will not go unless the women like it.
One of the assignments I liked was 'Sayings of Our Little Ones.' This was for every Tuesday
morning. Not more than half a column. These always got copied by the country press solid. It
is really surprising how many bright things you can make children of five and six years say
if you give your mind to it. The boss said that I overdid it sometimes and made them too bright
instead of 'just cunning.'

"'Psychological Study of Children' had a great run. This is the age of science. Same with animals,
astronomy--anything. If the public wants science, the papers will give it science.

"After all, the best hold for a lasting sensation is an attack upon some charity or public
institution; show up the abuses, and get all the sentimentalists on your side. The paper gets
sympathy for its fearlessness in serving the public interests. It is always easy to find plenty
of testimony from ill-used convicts and grumbling pensioners."

Undoubtedly Olin Brad was a clever fellow, uncommonly well read in the surface literatures
of foreign origin, and had a keen interest in what he called the metaphysics of his own time.
He had many good qualities, among them friendliness towards men and women struggling like himself
to get up the ladder, and he laid aside all jealousy when he advised Philip to try his hand
at some practical work on the Spectrum. What puzzled Philip was that this fabricator of "stories"
for the newspaper should call himself a "realist." The "story," it need hardly be explained,
is newspaper slang for any incident, true or invented, that is worked up for dramatic effect.
To state the plain facts as they occurred, or might have occurred, and as they could actually
be seen by a competent observer, would not make a story. The writer must put in color, and
idealize the scene and the people engaged in it, he must invent dramatic circumstances and
positions and language, so as to produce a "picture." And this picture, embroidered on a commonplace
incident, has got the name of "news." The thread of fact in this glittering web the reader
must pick out by his own wits, assisted by his memory of what things usually are. And the public
likes these stories much better than the unadorned report of facts. It is accustomed to this
view of life, so much so that it fancies it never knew what war was, or what a battle was,
until the novelists began to report them.

Mr. Brad was in the story stage of his evolution as a writer. His light facility in it had
its attraction for Philip, but down deep in his nature he felt and the impression was deepened
by watching the career of several bright young men and women on the press--that indulgence
in it would result in such intellectual dishonesty as to destroy the power of producing fiction
that should be true to life. He was so impressed by the ability and manifold accomplishments
of Mr. Brad that he thought it a pity for him to travel that road, and one day he asked him
why he did not go in for literature.

"Literature!" exclaimed Mr. Brad, with some irritation; "I starved on literature for a year.
Who does live on it, till he gets beyond the necessity of depending on it? There is a lot of
humbug talked about it. You can't do anything till you get your name up. Some day I will make
a hit, and everybody will ask, 'Who is this daring, clever Olin Brad?' Then I can get readers
for anything I choose to write. Look at Champ Lawson. He can't write correct English, he never
will, he uses picturesque words in a connection that makes you doubt if he knows what they
mean. But he did a dare-devil thing picturesquely, and now the publishers are at his feet.
When I met him the other day he affected to be bored with so much attention, and wished he
had stuck to the livery-stable. He began at seventeen by reporting a runaway from the point
of view of the hostler."

"Well," said Philip, "isn't it quite in the line of the new movement that we should have an
introspective hostler, who perhaps obeys Sir Philip Sidney's advice, 'Look into your heart
and write'? I chanced the other night in a company of the unconventional and illuminated, the
'poster' set in literature and art, wild-eyed and anaemic young women and intensely languid,
'nil admirari' young men, the most advanced products of the studios and of journalism. It was
a very interesting conclave. Its declared motto was, 'We don't read, we write.' And the members
were on a constant strain to say something brilliant, epigrammatic, original. The person who
produced the most outre sentiment was called 'strong.' The women especially liked no writing
that was not 'strong.' The strongest man in the company, and adored by the women, was the poet-artist
Courci Cleves, who always seems to have walked straight out of a fashion-plate, much deferred
to in this set, which affects to defer to nothing, and a thing of beauty in the theatre lobbies.
Mr. Cleves gained much applause for his well-considered wish that all that has been written
in the world, all books and libraries, could be destroyed, so as to give a chance to the new
men and the fresh ideas of the new era."

"My dear sir," said Brad, who did not like this caricature of his friends, "you don't make
any allowance for the eccentricities of genius."

"You would hit it nearer if you said I didn't make allowance for the eccentricities without
genius," retorted Philip.

"Well," replied Mr. Brad, taking his leave, "you don't understand your world. You go your own
way and see where you will come out."

And when Philip reflected on it, he wondered if it were not rash to offend those who had the
public ear, and did up the personals and minor criticisms for the current prints. He was evidently
out of view. No magazine paper of his had gained the slightest notice from these sublimated
beings, who discovered a new genius every month.

A few nights after this conversation Mr. Brad was in uncommon spirits at dinner.

"Anything special turned up?" asked Philip.

"Oh, nothing much. I've thrown away the chance of the biggest kind of a novel of American life.
Only it wouldn't keep. You look in the Spectrum tomorrow morning. You'll see something interesting."

"Is it a--" and Philip's incredulous expression supplied the word.

"No, not a bit. And the public is going to be deceived this time, sure, expecting a fake. You
know Mavick?"

"I've heard of him--the operator, a millionaire."

"A good many times. Used to be minister or consul or something at Rome. A great swell. It's
about his daughter, Evelyn, a stunning girl about sixteen or seventeen--not out yet."

"I hope it's no scandal."

"No, no; she's all right. It's the way she's brought up--shows what we've come to. They say
she's the biggest heiress in America and a raving beauty, the only child. She has been brought
up like the Kohinoor, never out of somebody's sight. She has never been alone one minute since
she was born. Had three nurses, and it was the business of one of them, in turn, to keep an
eye on her. Just think of that. Never was out of the sight of somebody in her life. Has two
maids now--always one in the room, night and day."

"What for?"

"Why, the parents are afraid she'll be kidnapped, and held for a big ransom. No, I never saw
her, but I've got the thing down to a dot. Wouldn't I like to interview her, though, get her
story, how the world looks to her. Under surveillance for sixteen years! The 'Prisoner of Chillon'
is nothing to it for romance."

"Just the facts are enough, I should say."

"Yes, facts make a good basis, sometimes. I've got 'em all in, but of course I've worked the
thing up for all it is worth. You'll see. I kept it one day to try and get a photograph. We've
got the house and Mavick, but the girl's can't be found, and it isn't safe to wait. We are
going to blow it out tomorrow morning."

VI

The Mavick mansion was on Fifth Avenue in the neighborhood of Central Park. It was one of the
buildings in the city that strangers were always taken to see. In fact, this was a palace not
one kind of a palace, but all kinds of a palace. The clever and ambitious architect of the
house had grouped all the styles of architecture he had ever seen, or of which he had seen
pictures. Here was not an architectural conception, like a sonnet or a well-constructed novel,
but if all the work could have been spread out in line, in all its variety, there would have
been produced a panorama. The sight of the mansion always caused wonder and generally ignorant
admiration. Its vastness and splendor were felt to be somehow typical of the New World and
of the cosmopolitan city.

The cost, in the eyes of the spectators, was a great part of its merits. No doubt this was
a fabulous sum. "You can form a little idea of it," said a gentleman to his country friend,
"when I tell you that that little bit there, that little corner of carving and decoration,
cost two hundred thousand dollars! I had this from the architect himself."

"My!"

The interior was as fully representative of wealth and of the ambition to put under one roof
all the notable effects of all the palaces in the world. But it had, what most palaces have
not, all the requisites for luxurious living. The variety of styles in the rooms was bewildering.
Artists of distinction, both foreign and native, had vied with each other in the decoration
of the rooms given over to the display of their genius. All paganism and all Christianity,
history, myth, and the beauties of nature were spread upon the walls and ceilings. Rare woods,
rare marbles, splendid textures, the product of ancient handiwork and modern looms, added a
certain dignity to the more airy creations of the artists. Many of the rooms were named from
the nations whose styles of decoration and furnishing were imitated in them, but others had
the simple designation of the gold room, the silver room, the lapis-lazuli room, and so on.
It was not only the show-rooms, the halls, passages, stairways, and galleries (both of pictures
and of curios) that were thus enriched, but the boudoirs, retiring-rooms, and more private
apartments as well. It was not simply a house of luxury, but of all the comfort that modern
invention can furnish. It was said that the money lavished upon one or two of the noble apartments
would have built a State-house (though not at Albany), and that the fireplace in the great
hall cost as much as an imitation mediaeval church. These were the things talked about, and
yet the portions of this noble edifice, rich as they were, habitually occupied by the family
had another character--the attractions and conveniences of what we call a home. Mrs. Mavick
used to say that in her apartments she found refuge in a sublimated domesticity. Mavick's own
quarters--not the study off the library where he received visitors whom it was necessary to
impress--had an executive appearance, and were, in the necessary appliances, more like the
interior bureau of a board of trade. In fact, the witty brokers who were admitted to its mysteries
called it the bucket-shop.

Mr. Brad's article on "A Prisoned Millionaire" more than equaled Philip's expectations. No
such "story" had appeared in the city press in a long time. It was what was called, in the
language of the period, a work of art--that is, a sensation, heightened by all the words of
color in the language, applied not only to material things, but to states and qualities of
mind, such as "purple emotions" and "scarlet intrepidity." It was also exceedingly complimentary.
Mavick himself was one of the powers and pillars of American society, and the girl was an exquisite
exhibition of woodland bloom in the first flush of spring-time. As he read it over, Philip
thought what a fine advertisement it is to every impecunious noble in Europe.

That morning, before going to his office, Philip strolled up Fifth Avenue to look at that now
doubly, famous mansion. Many others, it appeared, were moved by the same curiosity. There was
already a crowd assembled. A couple of policemen, on special duty, patrolled the sidewalk in
front in order to keep a passage open, and perhaps to prevent a too impudent inspection. Opposite
the house, on the sidewalk and on door-steps, was a motley throng, largely made up of toughs
and roughs from the East Side, good-natured spectators who merely wanted to see this splendid
prison, and a moving line of gentlemen and ladies who simply happened to be passing that way
at this time. The curbstone was lined with a score of reporters of the city journals, each
with his note-book. Every window and entrance was eagerly watched. It was hoped that one of
the family might be seen, or that some servant might appear who could be interviewed. Upon
the windows supposed by the reporters to be those from which the heiress looked, a strict watch
was kept. The number, form, and location of these windows were accurately noted, the stuff
of the curtains described in the phrase of the upholsterer, and much good language was devoted
to the view from these windows. The shrewdest of the reporters had already sought information
as to the interior from the flower dealers, from upholsterers, from artists who had been employed
in the decorations, and had even assailed, in the name of the rights of the public whom they
represented, the architects of the building; but their chief reliance was upon the waiters
furnished by the leading caterers on occasions of special receptions and great dinners, and
milliners and dress-makers, who had penetrated the more domestic apartments. By reason of this
extraordinary article in the newspaper, the public had acquired the right to know all about
the private life of the Mavick family.

This right was not acknowledged by Mr. Mavick and his family. Of course the object of the excitement
was wholly ignorant of the cause of it, as no daily newspaper was ever seen by her that had
not been carefully inspected by the trusted and intelligent governess. The crowd in front of
the mansion was accounted for by the statement that a picture of it had appeared in one of
the low journals, and there was naturally a curiosity to see it. And Evelyn was told that this
was one of the penalties a man paid for being popular.

Mrs. Mavick, who seldom lost her head, was thoroughly frightened and upset, and it was a rare
occasion that could upset the equanimity of the late widow, Mrs. Carmen Henderson. She gave
way to her passion and demanded that the offending editor should be pursued with the utmost
rigor of the law. Mr. Mavick was not less annoyed and angry, but he smiled when his wife talked
of pursuing the press with the utmost rigor of the law, and said that he would give the matter
prompt attention. That day he had an interview with the editor of the Daily Spectrum; which
was satisfactory to both parties. The editor would have said that Mavick behaved like a gentleman.
The result of the interview appeared in the newspaper of the following morning.

Mr. Mavick had requested that the offending reporter should be cautioned; he was too wise to
have further attention called to the matter by demanding his dismissal. Accordingly the reporter
was severely reprimanded, and then promoted.

The editorial, which was written by Mr. Olin Brad, and was in his best Macaulay style, began
somewhat humorously by alluding to the curious interest of the public in ancient history, citing
Mr. Froude and Mr. Carlyle, and the legend of Casper Hauser. It was true, gradually approaching
the case in point, that uncommon precautions had been taken in the early years of the American
heiress, and it was the romance of the situation that had been laid before the readers of the
Spectrum. But there had been really no danger in our chivalrous, free American society, and
all these precautions were long a thing of the past (which was not true). In short, with elaboration
and great skill, and some humor, the exaggerations of the former article were minimized, and
put in an airy and unsubstantial light. And then this friend of the people, this exposer of
abuses and champion of virtue, turned and justly scored the sensational press for prying into
the present life of one of the first families in the country.

Incidentally, it was mentioned that the ladies of the family had before this incident bespoken
their passage for their annual visit to Europe, and that this affair had not disturbed their
arrangements (which also was not true). This casual announcement was intended to draw away
attention from the Fifth Avenue house, and to notify the roughs that it would be useless to
lay any plans.

The country press, which had far and wide printed the interesting story, softened it in accordance
with the later development. Possibly no intelligent person was deceived, but in the estimation
of the mass of the people the Spectrum increased its reputation for enterprise and smartness
and gave also an impression of its fairness. The manager, told Mr. Brad that the increased
sales of the two days permitted the establishment to give him a vacation of two weeks on full
pay, and during these weeks the manager himself set up a neat and modest brougham.

All of which events, only partially understood, Mr. Philip Burnett revolved in his mind, and
wondered if what was called success was worth the price paid for it.

VII

