She cannot transport, because she does not care to contest the control of the sea with her
enemies. Have we aught to do with that? To supplement her naval inferiority by denying to the
Allies the fruits of their superiority would be equivalent to sharing in the war on the German
side. Moreover, to assume and base action upon German naval inferiority in advance of any general
trial of strength would be not only illegal, but even an insult to Germany. Notice that no
complaints of our export of munitions have come from the German Government. To make such complaint
would be to plead the baby act. Rather than risk her fleet by contesting the control of the
sea, thus gaining her share of munitions imports, Germany has chosen to withdraw it behind
fortifications, thus losing the munitions trade. Probably the decision is a sound one, but
she must accept the results.

The opposition to the trade seems to come from two classes:

(1) German sympathizers who seek to minimize the advantage which sea power gives the Allies.

(2) Those who are governed by their emotions rather than by reason and respect for law. I would
call the attention of both these classes to the usage, especially to the German usage, in other
wars.

Professor Gregory, in an interesting article, gives statistics of the large German exports
of arms to the British forces in the Boer war after the Boer trade had been cut off. In the
Russo-Japanese war Krupp notoriously supplied both sides. In the Balkan war there was said
to be competition between Krupp and Creusot in furnishing cannon. No state in the nature of
things can satisfy its needs in war completely from its own resources. Every belligerent has
bought, every neutral has allowed its citizens to sell, munitions since modern war began. England
sympathized with the South in our civil war, yet sold to the North. She did the same in 1870
to France.

If the trade in munitions is to be forbidden, then every state must accumulate its own supply
or greatly enlarge its arms manufacturing capacity, both wasteful processes. To say that a
moderate trade is lawful which a big trade is not is like the excuse of the lady who thought
her baby born out of wedlock did not matter because it was such a little one.

The critics of the munitions trade must note furthermore that in our own country that trade
cannot be forbidden without explicit legislation.

At the outset of the Spanish war such legislation was passed, as a war measure, forbidding
the export of coal or other war material at the discretion of the President. But by resolution
of Congress of March 14, 1912, the 1898 resolution was so amended as to apply to American countries
only. The reason for this distinction was, of course, to limit the danger of such exports of
arms to our neighbor states, particularly to Mexico, as might endanger our own peace and safety.
The general right to trade was left undisturbed.

But let us argue the question on ethical grounds alone. I can see no difference between a peace
trade and a war trade from the humanitarian standpoint; between arming a neighbor by our exports
in preparation for war and rearming him during war. In both cases we help him to kill. Now,
if one regards all war as wrong, aid in waging war by trade in munitions, whether in peace
time or war time, should be abhorrent to one's conscience. A Quaker gun is not only a paradox,
but a sinful one.

Most of us, however, believe that a defensive war, against aggression threatening the life
and liberties of a nation, is just and right. In the present war both parties claim to be fighting
in self-defense. We are not their judge; we must take both at their word; what we owe both,
ethically, is simply equality of treatment.

We help both alike in waging a just war. To do otherwise is to take part in their war. With
the flux and flow of the contest which makes our trade valuable or worthless now to one side,
now to the other, both ethically and legally we have nothing to do.

Armenian, Orduna, and Others

The diplomatic significance of the sinking of the Leyland liner Armenian on June 28 off the
northwest coast of Cornwall is thus dwelt upon in a Washington dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES,
dated July 2, 1915:

The lessons to be derived from the destruction of the Leyland liner Armenian off the English
coast are expected to have a most important bearing upon the diplomatic controversy between
Germany and the United States over the safety of human life in the submarine warfare.

It is believed here that the Armenian affair demonstrates that it is possible for German submarines
of the latest types, when equipped with outside rapid-fire guns, to comply with the demand
of President Wilson that the belligerent right of visit and search must be complied with before
merchantmen and passenger ships are torpedoed.

Whatever the facts as to minor detail, the outstanding lesson of the affair is that a merchantman
tried to escape capture and was finally forced to halt and surrender by a pursuing submarine,
and the destruction of the liner by torpedo was not attempted until after those on board who
survived the chase had an opportunity to take to the boats. It is evident that if the Armenian's
Captain had heeded the warning shots of the submarine and halted the steamer he could have
submitted to visit and search and in all probability the destruction of the Armenian could
have been effected without loss of life. All international law experts agree that a vessel
that refuses to halt when challenged by warning shots from a properly commissioned belligerent
war vessel proceeds at her own peril.

In its broader aspects, the Armenian incident presents the most important lesson that has come
out of the German undersea campaign for consideration by those engaged in the diplomatic controversy
over the various acts of the German submarines--and the lesson is considered extremely vital
in its bearing on the pending negotiations, because, if it is at all possible for submarines
to exercise the right of visit and search and they actually proceed in accordance with that
rule, the Germans may proceed with their warfare against merchantmen carrying contraband without
running counter to the expectations of the United States Government. Occasional merchantmen
may try to escape capture or destruction by disregarding warning shots, but that will be their
affair and the responsibility for loss of life due to efforts to elude submarines, and caused
during the period of continued efforts to escape, would not then rest upon the submarines.

The effective use of rapid-fire guns mounted on submarines in bona fide efforts to halt merchant
steamers for purpose of visit and search is the important factor in the situation. A submarine
not so equipped would find it difficult, if not impossible, to apply the rule of visit and
search. Without the outside guns such a submarine would possess no other effective weapon than
the torpedo. The submarine that carried no exterior armament could not compel obedience to
its mandate for the merchant Captain to stop without firing a torpedo and thus risking the
destruction of life with the sinking of the steamer, and a submarine with no outside armament
might run the risk, as frequently contended by the German Admiralty, of bomb attack from the
rails of the merchant steamer when going alongside of such a vessel.

A submarine like the U-38, which sank the Armenian, carrying one or more outside guns, capable
of discharging various kinds of shell, from blank shots to shrapnel, represents an important
evolution in the development of marine warfare. Such a craft has the equipment to enable her
to visit and search a passing merchantman, and to provide for the safe removal of officers,
crew or passengers from a challenged steamer, before the destruction of the vessel. It is only
necessary for such a submarine to fire her torpedoes as a last resort for the destruction of
the steamer. With her exterior guns a submarine like the U-38, upon meeting a merchant vessel,
may fire one or more warning shots, as Captain Trickey of the Armenian says the U-38 did.[1]
The raider, he said, fired two warning shots, and when he turned away from her and put on speed,
the submarine's guns opened fire on him with shrapnel.

[Footnote 1: Captain Trickey, describing the destruction of his vessel, through which several
Americans lost their lives, said on July 1 in Liverpool:

"We sighted the submarine about 6.48 o'clock Monday night, June 28, when we were about twenty
miles west of Trevose Head, on the northwest coast of Cornwall. We were then about four miles
away. She drew closer. She fired two shots across our bows. I then turned my stern to her and
ran for all I was worth. The submarine shelled us all the time, killing several of the crew
and cutting away several of our boats. The boats had already been swung out, and some of the
men had taken up positions in them ready for the order to lower away. In some cases the falls
were cut by shrapnel, and several of the men fell into the sea.

"A stern chase ensued, lasting for about an hour, the German shelling us unceasingly. My steering
gear was cut and knocked out of order. One shell came through the engine-room skylight, and
another knocked the Marconi house away. Still another shell went down the funnel, disabling
the stokehole and making it impossible to keep up a full head of steam. Thirteen of my crew
were lying dead on the deck, and the ship was on fire in three places. Then I decided to surrender.
It was the only thing I could do. By this time the submarine had decreased the distance between
us to about a mile.

"From the moment we surrendered the Germans acted fairly toward us and gave us ample time to
get out of the ship. They even rescued some of the men--three, I think--who had previously
fallen from the boats and were still afloat aided by their lifebelts. When we had got away
from the ship the submarine fired two torpedoes into her and she sank at 8.07 o'clock. We remained
in the boats all night and were picked up the next morning by the Belgian steam trawler President
Stevens."]

THE ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

Like the Armenian, the British merchantman Anglo-Californian refused to lie-to when signaled
by a German submarine on July 2. Her crew of ninety-five included fifty Americans and Canadians.
A Queenstown dispatch of July 5 gave the following account of the action:

The Anglo-Californian left Montreal for the British Isles on June 24. The submarine was sighted
at 8 o'clock last Sunday morning. Captain Parslow ordered full steam ahead and wireless calls
for aid were sent out. The submarine on the surface proved to be a far speedier craft than
the steamer and rapidly overhauled her, meanwhile deluging her with shells. One shot put the
wireless apparatus on the Anglo-Californian out of action. Finding that he could not escape
by running for it Captain Parslow devoted his attention to manoeuvring his ship so as to prevent
the submarine from using torpedoes effectively.

"Our Captain was a brave man," said one of the narrators. "He kept at his post on the bridge,
coolly giving orders as the submarine circled around us vainly seeking to get a position from
which it could give us a death blow with a torpedo. All the while the under-water boat continued
to rain, shot and shell upon us, and at times was so close that she was able to employ rifle
fire effectively.

