 There
is sufficient evidence of this in even what we know of great men, though of the greatest we
nearly always know the least (and that necessarily; they being very silent, and not much given
to setting themselves forth to questioners,--apt to be contemptuously reserved no less than
unselfishly). But in such writings and sayings as we possess of theirs we may trace a quite
curious gentleness and serene courtesy. Rubens's letters are almost ludicrous in their unhurried
politeness. Reynolds, swiftest of painters, was gentlest of companions; so also Velasquez,
Titian, and Veronese.

"It is gratuitous to add that no shallow or petty person can paint. Mere cleverness or special
gift never made an artist. It is only perfectness of mind, unity, depth, decision, the highest
qualities, in fine, of the intellect, which will form the imagination.

"And, lastly, no false person can paint. A person false at heart may, when it suits his purposes,
seize a stray truth here or there; but the relations of truth, its perfectness, that which
makes it wholesome truth, he can never perceive. As wholeness and wholesomeness go together,
so also sight with sincerity; it is only the constant desire of and submissiveness to truth,
which can measure its strange angles and mark its infinite aspects, and fit them and knit them
into sacred invention.

"Sacred I call it deliberately; for it is thus in the most accurate senses, humble as well
as helpful,--meek in its receiving as magnificent in its disposing; the name it bears being
rightly given even to invention formal, not because it forms, but because it finds. For you
cannot find a lie; you must make it for yourself. False things may be imagined, and false things
composed; but only truth can be invented."

One of those cardinal doctrines by which we may learn the bearings of a writer's system of
truth is that of Ruskin's of the intimate connection between landscape art and humanity.

"Fragrant tissue of flowers, golden circlet of clouds, are only fair when they meet the fondness
of human thoughts and glorify human visions of heaven.

"It is the leaning on this truth which more than any other has been the distinctive character
of all my own past work. And in closing a series of art-studies, prolonged during so many years,
it may be perhaps permitted me to point out this specialty,--the rather that it has been, of
all their characters, the one most denied. I constantly see that the same thing takes place
in the estimation formed by the modern public of the work of almost any true person, living
or dead. It is not needful to state here the causes of such error; but the fact is indeed so,
that precisely the distinctive root and leading force of any true man's work and way are the
things denied him.

"And in these books of mine, their distinctive character, as essays on art, is their bringing
everything to a root in human passion or human hope. Arising first not in any desire to explain
the principles of art, but in the endeavor to defend an individual painter from injustice,
they have been colored throughout, nay, continually altered in shape, and even warped and broken,
by digressions respecting social questions, which had for me an interest tenfold greater than
the work I had been forced into undertaking. Every principle of painting which I have stated
is traced to some vital or spiritual fact; and in my works on architecture the preference accorded
finally to one school over another is founded on a comparison of their influences on the life
of the workman,--a question by all other writers on the subject of architecture wholly forgotten
or despised.

"The essential connection of the power of landscape with human emotion is not less certain
because in many impressive pictures the link is slight or local. That the connection should
exist at a single point is all that we need.... That difference, and more, exists between the
power of Nature through which humanity is seen, and her power in the desert. Desert,--whether
of leaf or sand,--true desertness, is not in the want of leaves, but of life. Where humanity
is not and was not, the best natural beauty is more than vain. It is even terrible; not as
the dress cast aside from the body, but as an embroidered shroud hiding a skeleton."

The volume, as a whole, will be found less dogmatic, calmer, more convincing, and more directly
applicable to artistic judgment, than any of the others. There is the same love of mysticism
and undermeanings, but freighted with deeper and more central truths: a charming conclusion
to a fourteen-years' diary of such study of Art and Nature, so severe, so unremitting, as never
critic gave before.

Syntax of the Moods and Tenses of the Greek Verb. By W.W. GOODWIN, Ph.D. Cambridge: Sever and
Francis.

Grammarians had once a simple way of disposing of the subject on which Professor Goodwin has
given us this elaborate treatise of three hundred pages.

In the Greek Grammar of the Messieurs de Port Royal, which Gibbon praises so highly in his
charming autobiography, and which has passed through several editions in England within the
present century, we are taught, that, "though the moods [in Greek] are not to be rejected entirely,
yet their signification is sometimes so very arbitrary, that they are put for one another through
all tenses." Lancelot himself seems to have had a glimmering of the essential incredibility
of this statement; for, though he attempts to substantiate it by citing from Greek authors
a number of passages in which the Greek idiom happens to differ from the Latin,--passages,
however, which Mr. Goodwin would have been glad to use, had they fallen in his way, to illustrate
the regular constructions of the language,--he feels it necessary to appeal to the authority
of the learned Budæus, the greatest of the early Greek scholars. Strange as it seems that really
accomplished Greek scholars should have charged Plato and Demosthenes, speaking the most perfect
of tongues, with arbitrary interchanges of moods and tenses, yet the same views continued to
be presented in grammatical works down to the close of the last century. The transition to
the new school of grammarians was made in 1792, by the publication of a Greek Grammar by Philip
Buttmann, which, in the greatly improved form which it afterwards received from his hands,
is familiar to all Greek scholars. In our frequent boasts of the great strides that knowledge
has taken in the present century, we commonly have in mind the physical sciences; but we doubt
whether in any department of physical science the manuals in use seventy-five years ago are
so utterly inferior to those of the present day as are, for instance, the remarks of Viger,
and his commentators before Hermann, on the syntax of the Greek verb, to the philosophical
treatment of the same points by Professor Goodwin.

This work is entitled, we think, to rank with the best grammars of the Greek language that
have appeared in German or English, in all the points that constitute grammatical excellence;
while its monographic character justified and required an exhaustive treatment of its particular
topic, not to be found even in the huge grammars of Matthiæ and Kühner. Indeed, not the least
of its merits is this, that, in addition to the excellent matter which is original with Professor
Goodwin, it furnishes to the student, American or English,--for we hope to see its merits recognized
on the other side of the Atlantic,--a digest, as it were, of all that is most valuable on the
subject of the syntax of the Greek verb in the best German grammars, from Buttmann to Madvig,
enhanced, too, in value by being recast and worked into a homogeneous system by an acute scholar
and experienced teacher. One excellence of the book we would by no means pass over, an excellence
which we are sure will be particularly appreciated by all who have used translations of German
grammars,--the precision both of thought and expression by which it is characterized, which
releases the student from the labor of constructing the meaning of a rule from the data of
the appended examples. Not that Mr. Goodwin is chary of examples; on the contrary, one of the
most attractive and not least profitable features of the book is the copiousness and freshness
of the illustrative quotations from Greek authors. These are as welcome as the brightness of
newly minted coin to the eye which, in consulting grammar after grammar, has been condemned
to meet under corresponding rules always the same examples, till they begin to produce that
effect upon the nerves which all have experienced at the mention of the deadly upas-tree, or
the imminence of the dissolution of the Union.

We must not omit to speak of the typographical merit of the work,--and especially of what constitutes
the first and the last merit of books of this class, the excellent table of contents, and the
indexes, Greek and English, which leave nothing to be desired in the way of facility of reference,
except, perhaps, an index to the quotations.

The Law of the Territories. Philadelphia: C. Sherman & Son.

The author of the two able essays contained in this volume will be remembered by many of our
readers under his assumed name of "Cecil." The second, as he himself tells us, on "Popular
Sovereignty in the Territories," was published, as one of a series of essays on Southern politics,
in the Philadelphia North American and United States Gazette. The first, we believe, has never
been published before.

Our author, whom we may designate, without violating any confidence, as Mr. George Sidney Fisher,
devotes an elaborate preface, which is itself a third essay, to discussing the invasion of
Virginia by John Brown and the Southern threats of secession, drawing from the foray of Harper's
Ferry a conclusion very different from that of the disunionists. In his own words,--

  "Disunion is a word of fear. Is it not
  strange that it should have been as yet pronounced
  only by the South? The danger of
  insurrection and servile war belongs to the
  nature of slavery. It is, perhaps, not too much
  to assert that the safety and tranquillity of
  Southern society depend on the fact that the
  Northern people are close at hand to aid in
  case of need,--that the power of the General
  Government is ever ready for the same purpose.
  Four millions of barbarians, growing
  with tropical vigor, and soon to be eight millions,
  with tropical passions boiling in their
  blood, endowed with native courage, with
  sinews strong by toil, and stimulated by the
  hope of liberty and unbounded license, are
  not to be trifled with. Take away from them
  the idea of an irresistible power in the North,
  ready at any moment to be invoked by their
  masters, or let them expect in the North, not
  enemies, but friends and supporters, which
  even now they are told every day by these
  masters they may expect,--and how soon
  might a flame be lighted which no power in
  the South could extinguish!"

Mr. Fisher treats of the "Law of the Territories" in two essays,--the first considering more
particularly "The Territories and the Constitution," the second, "Popular Sovereignty in the
Territories." The first commences with a quotation so happy that it has all the effect of original
wit:--

  "The wily and witty Talleyrand was once
  asked the meaning of the word 'non-intervention,'
  so often used in European diplomacy.
  'It is a word,' he replied, 'metaphysical and
  political, not accurately defined, but which
  means--much the same thing as intervention!'
  The same word has been frequently
  employed, of late years, in our politics, with
  the same difference between its professed
  and its practical signification. It was introduced
  for the first time in reference to the
  government of the Territories, when it became
  an object for the South to gain Kansas as a
  Slave State. Two obstacles were to be overcome.
  One was the Missouri Compromise,
  which was a solemn compact between North
  and South to settle a disturbing and dangerous
  question; the other was a possible majority
  in Congress, that, it was feared, might prohibit
  slavery in the new Territory. Southern
  politicians had at the time control of the government;
  and they got rid of both difficulties
  by repealing the Missouri Compromise in the
  Kansas and Nebraska Bill. By necessary implication,
  arising from the relation of the Territories
  to the rest of the nation, by the language
  of the Constitution, and by the uniform
  construction of it and practice under it from
  the earliest period of our history, the Territories
  had been subjected to the absolute control
  of the General Government. By the Kansas
  and Nebraska Bill they were withdrawn
  from that control. The principle of Popular
  Sovereignty, it was said, applied to them as
  well as to the States; and this bill declared
  that the people of the Territories should be
  perfectly free to choose their own domestic
  institutions and regulate their own affairs in
  their own way."

The means employed to carry out this plan and the ultimate failure of the plan itself are sketched
with a boldness and vigor that our limits, much to our regret, forbid our reproducing. Mr.
Fisher, however, fails to notice the wretched plea put forth by the Democratic managers, in
favor of the recognition by Congress of the Lecompton Constitution,--that it had been officially
authenticated. All might be wrong, but the official record pronounced it right; and behind
that record Congress had no authority to go. And this plea was advanced in the face of overwhelming
evidence tending to show that the officials, for whose record so inviolable a sanctity was
claimed, were appointed for the express purpose of falsifying that record! If confirmation
be wanted, we need go no farther than the fate of Robert J. Walker, who was eager to make Kansas
a Slave State, but was so false to every principle of Democratic integrity as to confine himself
to legitimate means to bring about that result,--a remissness for which he was promptly removed
by President Buchanan! Mr. Fisher pertinently says,--

"Two great facts were plainly visible through the flimsy web of attorney logic and quibbling
technicality, not very ingeniously woven to conceal them. One of these facts was, that the
people of Kansas were heartily and almost unanimously averse to slavery; the other was, that
the Government was trying by every means in its power to impose slavery upon them."

After describing the contemptuous rejection by the people of Kansas of the pro-slavery constitution,
Mr. Fisher proceeds with an analysis of the Kansas-Nebraska fraud, so clear and so masterly
that we must again quote his own language, with an occasional condensation or omission.

"It was clear, therefore, that the principle of Popular Sovereignty, introduced by the Kansas
and Nebraska Bill, a principle before unknown to the law and practice of our government, would
not suit the South. It appeared too probable that not only the people to inhabit all the territory
north of 36° 30', but also much territory south of it, would, like the people of Kansas, reject
slavery, if left to regulate their domestic institutions in their own way. What, then, were
Southern politicians to do? Invoke the ancient and long exercised, but now denied and derided
power of Congress over the Territories? This might prove a dangerous weapon in the hands of
possible future Northern majorities. It was obviously necessary to withdraw slavery alike from
the control of Congress and of the people of a Territory. Some ingenuity was required for this.
The doctrine that the Constitution extends to the Territories (a doctrine broached before by
Mr. Calhoun, but always defeated on the ground that the Constitution, by its language and the
practice under it, was made for States only, and that the Territories were subject to the supreme
control of Congress,--a control frequently exercised, not only independently of the Constitution,
but in a manner incompatible with it) was introduced, with other innovations, into the Kansas
and Nebraska Bill. The Dred Scott decision of the Supreme Court followed, by which the Constitution
recognizes slavery as a national institution. It recognizes slaves as mere property, differing
in no respect from other merchandise. The Territories belong to the nation. Every citizen has
equal rights to them and in them. Why, therefore, may not a Southern man, as well as a Northern
man, go into them with his property? What right has Congress to place the South under an ignominious
bar of restriction? The Constitution declares that slaves are property; that all the States
and the people have equal rights. The Territories belong to all. Therefore, under the Constitution,
they should be enjoyed by all.

"By this ingenious logic the Kansas and Nebraska Bill is made to contradict itself. It first
declares that the Constitution extends to the Territories; in other words, slavery exists there
by force of the Constitution, without reference to the will of the people. The first sentence
announces a change in the settled principles and policy of the Government; else why declare
that the Constitution 'shall' extend to Nebraska, if it already extended there? Then comes
the repeal of the Missouri Compromise. The reason given for this is, that it is inconsistent
with the non-intervention by Congress with slavery, recognized in the Compromise of 1850. But
that law declares positively that Congress does not intervene, because it is 'inexpedient'
to do so; and gives the reason why it is inexpedient. The power of Congress was asserted by
Mr. Clay, who made the law, and the terms of it were chosen for the very purpose of preventing
any inference being drawn from it against that power.

"It is remarkable, too, that the Bill, whilst declaring the perfect freedom of the Territories,
should still have left them subject to the power of the President, who, as before, is permitted
to appoint their Governor, Judges, and Marshals, officers who are his agents, and without whose
sanction the acts of the Territorial Legislature can neither become laws, nor be construed
and applied, nor executed. So that the will of the people may be defeated, should it happen
to be opposed to the will of the President: as was seen in the case of Kansas.

"Why," Mr. Fisher asks, "is the anomalous monster of Popular Sovereignty to be introduced with
reference to slavery? Is it because slaves are 'mere property'? Why, then, not subject all
property, land included, to popular control? Is it because the subject of slavery is an exciting
topic, a theme for dangerous agitation, to be checked only by placing the subject beyond the
power of Congress? The answer is, that Congress cannot abdicate its power on the ground of
expediency. If it may give up one power, it may give up all. Nor can Congress delegate its
power for the same reason. Trust power, from its very nature, cannot be delegated. To break
down great principles, to set aside ancient usage, to abandon legal authority, in order to
appease the contests of parties, is too great a sacrifice. No true peace can come of it; only
suppressed and adjourned war."

The natural inference from the extracts we have given would be that Mr. Fisher was a member
of the Republican party. But such is not the fact: Mr. Fisher rests his hope upon a party "yet
to be organized." "The extreme Northern, or Free-soil, or Abolition party is only less guilty
than the extreme Southern and Democratic party." Which? Does Mr. Fisher mean that "Northern,"
"Free-soil," and "Abolition" are synonymous terms? And does any or do all of them mean the
Republican party? Or, finally, does Mr. Fisher shrink from the conclusions presented by his
logic, and is his vaguely convenient linking together of different words intended to leave
his position gracefully doubtful? And in that case, do the Baltimore nominations, with their
innocent unconsciousness, supply his political needs? It is not easy to answer these questions.
We begin now upon the views of a Pennsylvania Oppositionist; and quicksilver defied not more
utterly the skill of Raymond Lullius than the doctrines of the Philadelphia school perplex
the inquiries of sharply defined New England minds. The rudimentary state of Republican principles
may nowhere else be so clearly seen as in Pennsylvania. Four years of the Democratic administration
of her "favorite son" have done much to make her less favored sons into good Republicans; but
the State needs another Democratic President. Mr. Fisher appears to much more advantage in
pulling down than in building up. We have hitherto seen only the keen, fearless dissector of
fraud and hypocrisy; we are now to contemplate a circumspect alarmist, who dreads to call things
by their right names for fear of unpleasant consequences. He is such a master of English, so
judicious in the use of middle terms,--so shrewd a fencer altogether,--that even his timidity
cannot make him other than a formidable opponent.

Mr. Fisher, believing that slavery receives ample protection from a fair interpretation of
the Constitution, holds that

"Congress has plenary power over the Territories, often exercised on this subject of slavery.
It may be said that Congress has on various occasions prohibited slavery in the Territories.
True; but with the consent and coöperation of the Southern States. The people of all the States
have equal right in the Territories. To exclude the people of the Slave States, therefore,
without their consent, would be unequal and opposed to the spirit of the Constitution."

Certainly it would. Who proposes to do it? No living man, woman, or child. It is worth noticing,
by the way, that the Republican party is not committed to the doctrine of carrying out the
principle of the Wilmot Proviso. But supposing it were, Mr. Fisher's argument has no force
or direction, unless he can establish his suppressed premise,--that the exclusion of slavery
from the Territories is the exclusion of "the people of the Slave States" from the Territories.
And to make that good, all Mr. Fisher's skill and ingenuity will be required. Why so many Northern
politicians should have weakly surrendered this point is a mystery. Because the slaveholders
(who are not, Mr. Fisher, "the people of the Slave States," by any means, but a small portion
of them) are at home a privileged aristocracy, have they any claim to the same position abroad?
If so, on what does it rest? The laws of the Southern States? They are now beyond their jurisdiction.
The common law? To that wise and beneficent law slavery is a thing unknown. The Constitution?
It is silent. There is no exclusion of the Southerners even proposed. Let them come: but when
they claim to carry with them the right to hold a certain class of men as property because
they are recognized as property by certain local regulations elsewhere prevailing, they must
not complain, if such a claim be disallowed. The Southerner's complaint, that he is accustomed
to the institution of slavery, is fairly met by the Northerner's retort, that he is accustomed
to the institution of freedom.

Now, which voice shall prevail? Neither party has any more right than the other; and neither
party has any right at all. The Territories are in a state of wardship; and Congress is to
decide as it thinks best for their welfare, present and future; and if Congress thinks that
a nation prospers with free institutions and droops under slavery, then let Congress admit
the Territory as a Free State. True, there is some inconvenience to the slave-holder; but from
so abnormal a relation as slavery some inconvenience must result. When admitted to be a necessary
evil, it is barely tolerable; when boastingly proclaimed to be a sovereign good, it is fairly
intolerable. And it is both criminal and foolish to try to make good all the evils inseparable
from slavery by systematic injustice to other interests.

  "Slavery has changed. When Southern
  men consented to its prohibition, they hoped
  and believed that the time would come when
  it could be abolished altogether. They have
  as much right to these as to their former opinions,
  and to have them represented in the
  Government."

Here Mr. Fisher hints at, rather than fully states, the grand retort of the Southerners,--"Our
fathers, you say, were opposed to slavery: very good; but we are not: why should we be bound
by their opinions?" A mere misapprehension of the force of the argument. The Southerner of
1860 is not bound by the opinions of Madison and Jefferson; but the North may fairly adduce
the opinions of those men, who were framers of the Constitution, not as binding upon their
descendants, but as serving to explain the meaning of disputed provisions in that Constitution.
The Constitution binds us all, North and South: then recurs the question, What is the meaning
of its provisions? and then the contemporaneous opinions of its framers come legitimately into
play as an argument.

Of the Missouri Compromise Mr. Fisher says,--

  "It may be said that this law was a violation
  of the equal rights of the Southern people,
  by excluding them from a large portion
  of the national domain. The answer is, not
  merely that this was done with their consent,
  their representatives having approved the law,
  but that the law did recognize their rights,
  by dividing between them and the Northern
  people all the territory then possessed by the
  Government."

We are surprised that upon his own presentation of the case this simple question does not occur
to Mr. Fisher: Supposing the South and the North to have had equal and conflicting rights in
the national domain, and supposing that there was need of some arbiter, and remembering that
Congress undertook the duties of arbiter and decided that the division under the Missouri Compromise
gave each section its rightful share,--then, with what propriety can the South, after occupying
its own share, call for a portion in the share allotted to the North?

The second essay, on "Popular Sovereignty in the Territories," presents comparatively few salient
points. A very spirited and just history of the working of the Administration schemes in Kansas,
a restating of some of the arguments against the Kansas-Nebraska Act set forth in the preceding
essay, and a remonstrance against the headstrong course of Southern politicians are its most
noticeable features.

  "The Union, the Constitution, and the
  friendship of the North: these are the pillars
  on which rest the peace, the safety, the
  independence of the South. The extraordinary
  thing is, that for some years past the South
  has been, and now is, sedulously employed in
  undermining this triple foundation of its power
  and safety. Its extravagant pretensions,
  its excesses, its crimes, are rapidly cooling
  the friendship of the North,--converting it,
  indeed, into positive enmity. Its leading politicians
  are ever plotting and threatening disunion.
  disunion will he proffered to them from the North, not
  as a vague and passionate threat, but as a positive
  and well-considered plan, backed by a
  force of public opinion which nothing can resist.
  Ere long, the South is likely to be left
  with no other defence than the Union it has
  weakened and the Constitution it has mutilated
  and defaced.

  "The makers of the Kansas and Nebraska
  law were clumsy workmen. They forgot to
  provide for the case of an anti-slavery President.
  They will, perhaps, learn wisdom by
  experience.

  "'To wilful men
  The injuries that they themselves procure
  Must be their schoolmasters.'

  "Those who framed the Constitution and laid
  the foundation of this Union understood their
  business better. That Constitution was intended
  to protect the South, and has protected
  it. Southern politicians cannot improve
  it. For their own sakes they had better
  let it alone."

We have given enough to show that in discussing Mr. Fisher we are dealing with two different
men. The field is now clear for the great political contest of 1860. Mr. Fisher may have allied
himself before this with the Republicans, or may look to have his anticipations fulfilled by
that third party who are as unconscious of wrong as powerless to rectify it, "the world-forgetting,
by the world forgot." We wish him well through his troubles.

A Dictionary of English Etymology. By HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, M. A. Late Fellow of Chr. Coll. Cam.
Vol. I. (A-D.) London: Trübner and Co., 60 Paternoster Row. 1859. pp. xxiv., 507.

There is nothing more dangerously fascinating than etymologies. To the uninitiated the victim
seems to have eaten of "insane roots that take the reason prisoner"; while the illuminate too
often looks upon the stems and flowers of language, the highest achievements of thought and
poesy, as mere handles by which to pull up the grimy tubers that lie at the base of articulate
expression, shapeless knobs of speech, sacred to him as the potato to the Irishman.

The sarcasms of Swift were not without justification; for crazier analogies than that between
Andromache and Andrew Mackay have been gravely insisted on by persons who, like the author
of "Amilec," believed that the true secret of philosophizing est celui de rêver heureusement.
It is only within a few years that etymological investigations have been limited by anything;
like scientific precision, or that profound study, patient thought, and severity of method
have asserted in this, as in other departments of knowledge, their superiority to point-blank
guessing and the bewitching generalization conjured out of a couple or so of assumed facts,
which, even if they turn out to be singly true, are no more nearly related than Hecate and
green cheese.

We do not object to that milder form of philology of which the works of Dean Trench offer the
readiest and most pleasing example, and which confines itself to the mere study of words, to
the changes of form and meaning they have undergone and the forgotten moral that lurks in them.
But the interest of Dr. Trench and others like him sticks fast in words, it is almost wholly
an aesthetic interest, and does not pretend to concern itself with the deeper problems of language,
its origin, its comparative anatomy, its bearing upon the prehistoric condition of mankind
and the relations of races, and its claim to a place among the natural sciences as an essential
element in any attempt to reconstruct the broken and scattered annals of our planet. It would
not be just to find fault with Dr. Trench's books for lacking a scientific treatment to which
they make no pretension, but they may fairly be charged with smelling a little too much of
the shop. There is a faint odor of the sermon-case about every page, and we learn to dread,
sometimes to skip, the inevitable homily, as we do the moral at the end of an Æsopic fable.
We enter our protest, not against Dr. Trench in particular, for his books have other and higher
claims to our regard, but because we find that his example is catching, the more so as verbal
morality is much cheaper than linguistic science. If there be anything which the study of words
should teach, it is their value.

There are two theories as to the origin of language, which, for shortness, may be defined as
the poetic and the matter-of-fact. The former (of which M. Ernest Renan is one of the most
eloquent advocates) supposes a primitive race or races endowed with faculties of cognition
and expression so perfect and so intimately responsive one to the other, that the name of a
thing came into being coincidently with the perception of it. Verbal inflections and other
grammatical forms came into use gradually to meet the necessities of social commerce between
man and man, and were at some later epoch reduced to logical system by constructive minds.
If we understand him rightly, while not excluding the influence of onomatopeia, (or physical
imitation,) he would attach a far greater importance to metaphysical causes. His theory amounts
to this: that the fresh perfection of the senses and the mental faculties made the primitive
man a poet.

The other theory seeks the origin of language in certain imitative radicals out of which it
has analogically and metaphorically developed itself. This system has at least the merits of
clearness and simplicity, and of being to a certain extent capable of demonstration. Its limitation
in this last respect will depend upon that mental constitution which divides men naturally
into Platonists and Aristotelians. It has never before received so thorough an exposition or
been tested by so wide a range of application as in Mr. Wedgwood's volume, nor could it well
be more fortunate in its advocate. Mr. Wedgwood is thorough, scrupulous, and fair-minded.

It will be observed that neither theory brings any aid to the attempt of Professor Max Müller
and others to demonstrate etymologically the original unity of the human race. Mr. Wedgwood
leaves this question aside, as irrelevant to his purpose. M. Renan combats it at considerable
length. The logical consequence of admitting either theory would be that the problem was simply
indemonstrable.

At first sight, so imaginative a scheme as that of M. Renan is singularly alluring; for, even
when qualified by the sentence we have quoted, we may attach such a meaning to the word motivée
as to find in words the natural bodies of which the Platonic ideas are the soul and spirit.
We find in it a correlative illustration of that notion not uncommon among primitive poets,
and revived by the Cabalists, that whoever knew the Word of a thing was master of the thing
itself, and an easy way of accounting for the innate fitness and necessity, the fore ordination,
which stamps the phrases of real poets. If, on the other hand, we accept Mr. Wedgwood's system,
we must consider speech, as the theologians of the Middle Ages assumed of matter, to be only
potentiated with life and soul, and shall find the phenomenon of poetry as wonderful, if less
mysterious, when we regard the fineness of organization requisite to a perception of the remote
analogies of sense and thought, and the power, as of Solomon's seal, which can compel the unwilling
genius back into the leaden void which language becomes when used as most men use it.

There is a large class of words which every body admits to be imitative of sounds,--such, for
example, as bang, splash, crack,--and Mr. Wedgwood undertakes to show that their number and
that of their derivative applications is much larger than is ordinarily supposed. He confines
himself almost wholly to European languages, but not always to the particular class of etymologies
which it is his main object to trace out. Some of his explanations of words, not based upon
any real or assumed radical, but showing their gradual passage toward their present forms and
meanings, are among the most valuable parts of the book. As striking proofs of this, we refer
our readers to Mr. Wedgwood's treatment of the words abide, abie, allow, danger, and denizen.
When he differs from other authorities, it is never inconsiderately or without examination.
Now and then we think his derivations are far-fetched, when simpler ones were lying near his
hand. He makes the Italian balcone come from the Persian båia khaneh, an upper chamber. An
upper chamber over a gate in the Persian caravanserais is still called by that name, according
to Rich. (p. 97.) Yet under the word balk we find, "A hayloft is provincially termed the balks,
(Halliwell,) because situated among the rafters. Hence also, probably, the Ital. balco, or
pulcoy a scaffold; a loftlike erection supported upon beams." As a balcone is not an upper
chamber, nor a chamber over a gate, but is precisely "a loftlike erection supported upon beams,"
it seems more reasonable to suppose it an augmentative formed in the usual way from balco.
Mr. Wedgwood's derivation of barbican from bala khaneh seems to us more happy. (Ducange refers
the word to an Eastern source.) He would also derive the Fr. ébaucher from balk, though we
have a correlative form, sbozzare, in Italian, (old Sp. esbozar, Port, esboyar, Diez,) with
precisely the same meaning, and from a root bozzo, which is related to a very different class
of words from balk. So bewitched is Mr. Wedgwood with this word balk, that he prefers to derive
the Ital. valicam, varcare, from it rather than from the Latin varicare. We should think a
deduction from the latter to the English walk altogether as probable. Mr. Wedgwood also inclines
to seek the origin of acquaint in the Germ, kund, though we have all the intermediate steps
between it and the Mid. Lat. adcognitare. Again, under daunt he says, "Probably not directly
from Lat. domare, but from the Teutonic form damp, which is essentially the same word." It
may be plain that the Fr. dompter (whence daunt) is not directly from domare, but not so plain,
as it seems to us, that it is not directly from the frequentative form domitare.--"Decoy. Properly
duck-coy, as pronounced by those who are familiar with the thing itself. 'Decoys, vulgarly
duck-coys.'--Sketch of the Fens, in Gardener's Chron. 1849. Du. koye, cavea, septum, locus
in quo greges stabulantur.--Kil. Kooi, konw, kevi, a cage; vogel-kooi, a bird-cage, decoy,
apparatus for entrapping waterfowl. Prov. E. Coy, a decoy for ducks, a coop for lobsters.--Forby.
The name was probably imported with the thing itself from Holland to the fens." (p. 447.) Duck-coy,
we cannot help thinking, is an instance of a corruption like bag o' nails from bacchanals,
for the sake of giving meaning to a word not understood. Decoys were and are used for other
birds as well as ducks, and vogel-kooi in Dutch applies to all birds, (answering to our trap-cage,)
the special apparatus for ducks being an eende-kooi. The French coi adverbialized by the prefix
de, and meaning quietly, slyly, as a hunter who uses decoys must demean himself, would seem
a more likely original.--Andiron Mr. Wedgwood derives from Flem. wend-ijser, turn-irons, because
the spit rested upon them. But the original meaning seems to have no reference to the spit.
The French landier is plainly a corruption of the Mid. Lat. anderia, by the absorption of the
article (l'andier). This gives us an earlier form andier, and the augmentative andieron would
be our word.--Baggage. We cannot think Mr. Wedgwood's derivation of this word from bague an
improvement on that of Ducange from baga, area.--Coarse Mr. Wedgwood considers identical with
course,--that is, of course, ordinary. He finds a confirmation of this in the old spelling.
Old spelling is seldom a safe guide, though we wonder that the archaic form boorly did not
seem to him a sufficient authority for the common derivation of burly. If coarse be not another
form of gross, (Fr. gros, grosse,) then there is no connection between corn and granum, or
horse and ross.--"Cullion. It. Coglione, a cullion, a fool, a scoundrel, properly a dupe. See
Cully. It. cogionare, to deceive, to make a dupe of.... In the Venet. coglionare becomes cogionare,
as vogia for voglia.... Hence E. to cozen, as It. fregio, frieze; cugino, cousin; prigione,
prison." (p. 387.) Under cully, to which Mr. Wedgwood refers, he gives another etymology of
coglione, and, we think, a wrong one. Coglionare is itself a derivative form from coglione,
and the radical meaning is to be sought in cogliere, to gather, to take in, to pluck. Hence
a coglione is a sharper, one who takes in, plucks. Cully and gull (one who is taken in) must
be referred to the same source. Mr. Wedgwood's derivation of cozen is ingenious, and perhaps
accounts for the doubtful Germ, kosen, unless that word itself be the original.--"To chaff,
in vulgar language to rally one, to chatter or talk lightly. From a representation of the inarticulate
sounds made by different kinds of animals uttering rapidly repeated cries. Du. keffen, to yap,
to bark, also to prattle, chatter, tattle. Halma," etc. We think it demonstrable that chaff
is only a variety of chafe, from Fr. écauffer, retaining the broader sound of the a from the
older form chaufe. So gaby, which Mr. Wedgwood (p. 84) would connect with gäwisch, (Fr. gauche,)
is derived immediately from O. Fr. gabé, (a laughing-stock, a butt,) the participial form of
gaber, to make fun of, which would lead us to a very different root. (See the Fabliaux, passim.)--Cress.
"Perhaps," says Mr. Wedgwood, (p. 398,) "from the crunching sound of eating the crisp, green
herb." This is one of the instances in which he is lured from the plain path by the Nixy Onomatopoeia.
The analogy between cress and grass flies in one's eyes; and, perhaps, the more probable derivation
of the latter is from the root meaning to grow, rather than from that meaning to eat, unless,
indeed, the two be originally identical. The A. S. forms coers and goers are almost identical.
The Fr. cresson, from It. crescione, which Mr. Wedgwood cites, points in the direction of crescere;
and the O. Fr. cressonage, implying a verb cressoner, means the right of grazing.--Under dock
Mr. Wedgwood would seem (he does not make himself quite clear) to refer It. doccia to a root
analogous with dyke and ditch. He cites Prov. doga, which he translates by bank. Raynouard
has only "dogua, douve, creux, cavité," and refers to It. doga. The primary meaning seems rather
the hollow than the bank, though this would matter little, as the same transference of meaning
may have taken place as in dyke and ditch, But when Mr. Wedgwood gives mill-dam as the first
meaning of the word doccia, his wish seems to have stood godfather. Diez establishes the derivation
of doccia from ductus; and certainly the sense of a channel to lead (ducere) water in any desired
direction is satisfactory. The derivative signification of doccia (a gouge, a tool to make
channels with) coincides. Moreover, we have the masculine form doccio, answering exactly to
the Sp. ducho in aguaducho, the o for u, as in doge for duce, from the same root ducere. Another
instance of Mr. Wedgwood's preferring the bird in the bush is to be found in his refusing to
consider dout, to extinguish, (do out,) as analogous to don, doff, and dup. He would rather
connect it with tödten, tuer. He cites as allied words Bohemian dusyti, to choke, to extinguish;
Polish dusic, to choke, stifle, quell; and so arrives at the English slang phrase, "dowse the
glim." As we find several other German words in thieves' English, we have little doubt that
dowse is nothing more than thu' aus, do (thou) out, which would bring us back to our starting-point.

We have picked out a few instances in which we think Mr. Wedgwood demonstrably mistaken, because
they show the temptation which is ever lying in wait to lead the theoretical etymologist astray.
Mr. Wedgwood sometimes seems to reverse the natural order of things, and to reason backward
from the simple to the more complex. He does not always respect the boundaries of legitimate
deduction. On the other hand, his case becomes very strong where he finds relations of thought
as well as of sound between whole classes of words in different languages. But it is very difficult
to say how long ago instinctive imitation ceased and other elements are to be admitted as operative.
We see words continually coming into vogue whose apparent etymologies, if all historical data
of their origin were lost, would inevitably mislead. If we did not know, for example, the occasion
which added the word chouse to the English language, we have little doubt that the twofold
analogy of form and meaning would have led etymologists to the German kosen, (with the very
common softening of the k to ch,) and that the derivation would have been perfectly satisfactory
to most minds.--Tantrums would look like a word of popular coinage, and yet we find a respectable
Old High German verb tantarôn, delirare, (Graff, V. 437,) which may perhaps help us to make
out the etymology of dander, in our vulgar expression of "getting one's dander up," which is
equivalent to flying into a passion.--Jog, in the sense of going, (to jog along,) has a vulgar
look. Richardson derives it from the same root with the other jog, which means to shake, ("A.
S. sceac-an, to shake, or shock, or shog.") Shog has nothing whatever to do with shaking, unless
when Nym says to Pistol, "Will you shog off?" he may be said to have shaken him off. When the
Tinker in Beaumont and Fletcher's "Coxcomb" says, "Come, prithee, let's shog off," what possible
allusion to shaking is there, except, perhaps, to "shaking stumps"? The first jog and shog
are identical in meaning and derivation, and may be traced, by whosoever chooses, to the Gothic
tiuhan, (Germ, ziehen,) and are therefore near of kin to our tug. Togs and toggery belong here
also. (The connecting link may be seen in the preterite form zog.) The other jog probably comes
to us immediately from the French choquer; and its frequentative joggle answers to the German
schutkeln, It. cioccolare. Whether they are all remotely from the same radical is another question.
We only cited it as a monosyllabic word, having the air of being formed by the imitative process,
while its original tiuhan makes quite another impression.--Had the word ramose been a word
of English slang-origin, (and it might easily have been imported, like so many more foreign
phrases, by sailors,) we have as little doubt that a derivation of it from the Spanish vamos
would have failed to convince the majority of etymologists. This word is a good example of
the way in which the people (and it is always the people, never the scholars, who succeed in
adding to the spoken language) proceed in naturalizing a foreign term. The accent has gone
over to the last syllable, in accordance with English usage in verbs of two syllables; and
though the sharp sound of the s has been thus far retained, it is doubtful how long it will
maintain itself against a fancied analogy with the grave sound of the same letter in such words
as inclose and suppose.--We should incline to think the slang verb to mosey a mere variety
of form, and that its derivation from a certain absconding Mr. Moses (who broke the law of
his great namesake through a blind admiration of his example in spoiling the Egyptians) was
only a new instance of that tendency to mythologize which is as strong as ever among the uneducated.
Post, ergo propter, is good people's-logic; and if an antecedent be wanting, it will not be
long before one is invented.

If we once admit the principle of onomatopoeia, the difficulty remains of drawing the line
which shall define the territory within which those capable of judging would limit its operation.
Its boundary would be a movable one, like that of our own Confederacy. Some students, from
natural fineness of ear, would be quicker to recognize resemblances of sound; others would
trace family likeness in spite of every disguise; others, whose exquisiteness of perception
was mental, would find the scent in faint analogies of meaning, where the ordinary brain would
be wholly at fault. In the original genesis of language, also, we should infer the influence
of the same idiosyncrasies. We were struck with this the other day in a story we heard of a
little boy, who, during a violent thunder-storm, asked his father what that was out there,--all
the while winking rapidly to explain his meaning. Had his vocabulary been more complete, he
would have asked what that winking out there was. The impression made upon him by the lightning
was not the ordinary one of brightness, (as in blitz, (?) éclair, fulmen, flash,) but of the
rapid alternations of light and dark. Had he been obliged to make a language for himself, like
the two unfortunate children on whom King Psarnmetichus made his linguistic experiment, he
would have christened the phenomenon accordingly.

Mr. Wedgwood has by no means carried out his theory fully even in reference to the words contained
in his first volume, nor does the volume itself nearly exhaust the vocabulary of the letters
it includes (A to D). Sometimes, where we should have expected him to apply his system, he
refrains, whether from caution or oversight it is not easy to discover. The word cow, which
is commonly referred to an imitative radical, he is provokingly reserved about; and under chew
he hints at no relation between the name of the action and that of the capital ruminant animal.[a]
Even where he has derived a word from an imitative radical, he sometimes fails to carry the
process on to some other where it would seem equally applicable, sometimes pushes it too far.
For instance, "Crag. 1. The neck, the throat.--Jam. Du. kraeghe, the throat; Pol. kark, the
nape, crag, neck; Bohem. krk, the neck; Icel. krage, Dan. krave, the collar of a coat. The
origin is an imitation of the noise made by clearing the throat. Bohem. krkati, to belch, krcati,
to vomit; Pol. krzakaé, to hem, to hawk. The same root gives rise to the Fr. cracher, to spit,
and It. recere, to vomit; E. reach, to strain in vomiting; Icel. hraki, spittle; A. S. hrara,
cough, phlegm, the throat, jaws; G. rachen, the jaws." (As crag is not an English word, all
this should have come under the head of craw.) "Crag. 2. A rock. Gael. creag, a rock; W. careg,
a stone; caregos, pebbles." We do not see why the rattling sound of stones should not give
them a claim to the same pedigree,--the name being afterwards transferred to the larger mass,
the reverse of which we see in the popular rock for stone. Nay, as Mr. Wedgwood (sub voce draff,
p. 482) assumes rac (more properly rk) as the root, it would answer equally well for rock also.
Indeed, as the chief occupation of crags, and their only amusement, in mountainous regions,
is to pelt unwary passengers and hunters of scenery with their débris, we might have creag,
quasi caregos faciens sive dejiciens, sicut rupes a rumpere. Indeed, there is an analogous
Sanscrit root, meaning break, crack. But though Mr. Wedgwood lets off this coughing, hawking,
spitting, and otherwise unpleasant old patriarch Rac so easily in the case of the foundling
Crag, he has by no means done with him. Stretched on the unfilial instrument of torture that
bears his name, he is made to confess the paternity of draff, and dregs, and dross, and so
many other uncleanly brats, that we feel as if he ought to be nailed by the ear to the other
side of the same post on which Mr. Carlyle has pilloried August der starke forever. But we
honestly believe the old fellow to be belied, and that he is as guiltless of them as of that
weak-witted Hebrew Raca who looks so much like him in the face.

[Footnote a: An etymology of this kind would have been particularly interesting in the hands
of so learned and acute a man as Mr. Wedgwood. It would have afforded him a capital example
of the fact that considerable differences in the form and sound of words meaning the same thing
prove nothing against the onomatopoeic theory, but merely that the same sound represents a
different thing to different ears. L. Boare, mugire, E. moo; F. beugler, E. bellow; G. leuen,
L. lugere, E. low, are all attempts at the same sound, or, which would not affect the question,
variations of an original radical gô or gu. For a full discussion of the matter, admirable
for its thorough learning, see Pictet, Les Origines Indo-Européennes, Vol. I. Section 86.]

In the case of crag, Mr. Wedgwood argues from a sound whose frequency and marked character
(and colds must have been frequent when the fig-tree was the only draper) gave a name to the
organ producing it. We can easily imagine it. One of these early pagans comes home of an evening,
heated from the chase, and squats himself on the damp clay floor of a country-seat imperfectly
guarded against draughts. The next morning he says to his helpmeet, "Mrs. Barbar, I have a
dreadful cold in my--hrac! hrac!" Here he is interrupted by a violent fit of coughing, and
resorts to semeiology by pointing to his throat. Similar incidents carrying apprehension (as
Lord Macaulay would say) to the breezy interiors of a thousand shanties on the same fatal morning,
the domestic circle would know no name so expressive as hrac for that fatal tube through which
man, ingenious in illegitimate perversion, daily compels the innocent breath to discharge a
plumbeous hail of rhetoric.

But seriously, we think Mr. Wedgwood's derivation of crag (or rather, that which he adopts,
for it has had other advocates) a very probable one, at least for more northern tribes. There
is no reason why men should have escaped the same law of nomenclature which gave names to the
cuckoo and the pavo.[a] But when he approaches draff, he gets upon thinner ice. Where a metaphorical
appropriateness is plainly wanting to one etymology and another as plainly supplies it, other
considerations being equal, probability may fairly turn the scale in favor of the latter. Mr.
Wedgwood is here dealing with a sound translated to another meaning by an intellectual process
of analogy; and no one knows better than he--for his book shows everywhere the fair-mindedness
of a thorough scholar--the extreme difficulty of convincing other minds in such matters. He
seems to have been unconsciously influenced in this case by a desire to give more support to
a very ingenious etymology of the word dream. His process of reasoning may be briefly stated
thus: draff and dregs are refuse, they are things thrown away, sometimes (as in German dreck,
sordes) they are even disgustful; and as there is no expression of contempt and disgust so
strong as spitting, the sound rac transferred itself by a natural association of ideas from
the act to the object of it. He cites Du. drabbe, Dan. drav, Ger. träbern, Icel. dregg, Prov.
draco, Ger., Du. dreck, O. F. drache, drêche, (and he might have added E. trash,) E. dross,
all with nearly the same meaning. We have selected such as would show the different forms of
the word. To the same radical Mr. Wedgwood refers G. trüjen, betrügen, and this would carry
with it our English trick (Prov. tric, in Diez, Fr. triche). In our opinion he is wrong, doubly
wrong, inasmuch as we think he has confounded two widely different roots. He has taken his
O. Fr. forms from Roquefort (Gloss. Rom. I. 411,) but has omitted one of his definitions, coque
qui enveloope le grain, that is, the husk, or hull. Mr. Wedgwood might perhaps found an argument
on this in support of our old friend Rac and his relation to huskiness; but it seems to us
one of those trifles, the turned leaf, or broken twig, that put one on the right trail. We
accept Mr. Wedgwood's derivative signification of refuse, worthless, contemptible, and ask
if all these terms do not apply equally well to the chaff of the threshing-floor? It is more
satisfactory to us, then, to attribute a part of the words given above to the Gothic dragan,
(L. trahere, G. tragen,) to drag, to draw, and a part to Goth. thriskan, to thresh. The conjecture
of Diez, (cited by Diefenbach,) that the Italian trescare (to stamp with the feet, to dance)
should be referred to the same root, is confirmed by the ancient practice of threshing grain
by treading it out with cattle. We might, indeed, refer all to one root, by deriving dross
(a provincial form of which is drass) through the O. Fr. drache, (as in O. Fr. treche, Fr.
tresse, E. tress,) but we have A. S. dresten, which is better accounted for by therscan. The
other forms, such as drabbe, dregg, and dragan, the b and v being analogous to E. draggle,
drabble, draught, draft, all equally from dragan. We have a suspicion that dragon is to be
referred to the same root. Mr. Wedgwood follows Richardson, who follows Vossius in a fanciful
etymology from the Greek [Greek: derkomai = blepein] to see. Sharpness of sight, it is true,
was attributed to the mythologized reptile, but the primitive draco was nothing but a large
serpent, supposed to be the boa. This sense must accordingly be comparatively modern. The eagle
is the universal type of keenness of vision. The reptile's way of moving himself without legs
is his most striking peculiarity; and if we derive dragon from the root meaning to drag, to
draw, (because he draws himself along,) we find it analogous to serpent, reptile, snake.[b]
The relation between [Greek: trechein] and dragan may be seen in G. ziehen, meaning both to
draw and to go. Mr. Wedgwood says that he finds it hard to conceive any relation between the
notion of treachery, betrayal, (trügen, betrügen,) and that of drawing. It would seem that
to draw into an ambush, the drawing of a fowler's net, and the more sublimated drawing a man
on to his destruction, supplied analogies enough. The contempt we feel for treachery (for it
is only in this metaphysical way that Mr. Wedgwood can connect the word with his radical rac[c])
is a purely subsidiary, derivative, and comparatively modern notion. Many, perhaps most, kinds
of treachery were looked upon as praiseworthy in early times, and are still so regarded among
savages. Does Mr. Wedgwood believe that Romulus lost caste by the way in which he made so many
respectable Sabines fathers-in-law against their will, or that the wise Odysseus was a perfectly
admirable gentleman in our sense of the word? Even in the sixteenth century, in the then most
civilized country of the world, the grave irony with which Macchiavelli commends the frightful
treacheries of Cæsar Borgia would have had no point, if he had not taken it for granted that
almost all who read his treatise would suppose him to be in earnest. In the same way dregs
is explained simply as the sediment left after drawing off liquids. Dredge also is certainly,
in one of its meanings, a derivative of dragan; so, too, trick in whist, and perhaps trudge.
Indeed, all the words above-cited are more like each other than Fr. toit and E. deck, both
from one root, or the Neapol. sciù and the Lat. flos, from which it is corrupted.

[Footnote a: The German pfau retains the imitative sound which the English pea-cock has lost,
and of which our system of pronunciation robs the Latin.]

[Footnote b: And to worm, (another word for dragon,) if, as has been conjectured, there be
any radical affinity between that and schwärmen, whose primitive sense of crawl or creep is
seen in the swarming of bees, and swarming up a tree.]

[Footnote c: That is, unless he takes the rag in dragan to be the same thing, which he might
support with several plausible analogies, such as E. rake, It. recare, etc.]

But the same subtilty of mind, which sometimes seduces Mr. Wedgwood into making distinctions
without a difference and preferring an impalpable relation of idea to a plain derivative affinity,
is of great advantage to him when the problem is to construct an etymology by following the
gossamer clews that lead from sensual images to the metaphorical and tropical adaptations of
them to the demands of fancy and thought. The nice optics that see what is not to be seen have
passed into a sarcastic proverb; yet those are precisely the eyes that are in the heads and
brains of all who accomplish much, whether in science, poetry, or philosophy. With the kind
of etymologies we are speaking of, it is practically useful to have the German gift of summoning
a thing up from the depths of one's inward consciousness. It is when Mr. Wedgwood would reverse
the order of Nature, and proceed from the tropical to the direct and simple, that we are at
issue with him. For it is not philosophers who make language, though they often unmake it.

Mr. Wedgwood's most successful application of his system may be found, as we think, under the
words, dim, dumb, deaf, and death. He might have confirmed the relation between dumbness and
darkness from the acutest metaphysician among poets, in Dante's ove il sol tace. We have not
left ourselves room enough to illustrate Mr. Wedgwood's handling of these etymologies by extracts;
we must refer our readers to the book itself. Apart from its value as suggesting thought, or
quickening our perception of shades of meaning, and so freshening our feeling of the intimate
harmony of sense and spirit in language, and of the thousand ways in which the soul assumes
the material world into her own heaven and transfigures it there, the volume will be found
practically the most thorough contribution yet made to English etymology. We are glad to hear
that we are to have an American edition of it under the able supervision of Mr. Marsh. Etymology
becomes of practical importance, when, as the newspapers inform us, two members of a New York
club have been fighting a duel because one of them doubted whether Garry Baldy were of Irish
descent. Any student of language could have told them that Garibaldi is only the plural form
(common in Italian family names) of Garibaldo, the Teutonic Heribald, whose meaning, appropriate
enough in this case, would be nearly equivalent to Bold Leader.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Physiology of Common Life. By George Henry Lewes, Author of "Seaside Studies," "Life of
Goethe," etc. In Two Volumes. Vol. II. New York. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 410. $1.00. Vol.
XIV. New York. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. 747. $3.00.

The Young Farmer's Manual: Detailing the Manipulations of the Farm in a Plain and Intelligible
Manner. With Practical Directions for laying out a Farm, and erecting Buildings, Fences, and
Farm Gates. Embracing also the Young Farmer's Workshop: giving full Directions for the Selection
of Good Farm and Shop Tools, their Use and Manufacture, with Numerous Original Illustrations
of Fences, Gates, Tools, etc., and for performing nearly Every Branch of Farming Operations.
By S. Edwards Todd. New York. Saxton, Barker, & Co. 12mo. pp. 459. $1.25.

Ritchie's Illustrated Catalogue of Philosophical Instruments. Boston. E.S. Ritchie. 8vo. pp.
84. 25 cts.

The Kellys and the O'Kellys. A Novel. By Anthony Trollope, Author of "Dr. Thorne," etc. From
the Last London Edition. New York. Rudd & Carleton. 12mo. pp. 432. $1.25.

A History of New York, from the Beginning of the World to the End of the Dutch Dynasty; containing,
among Many Surprising and Curious Matters, the Unutterable Ponderings of Walter the Doubter,
the Disastrous Projects of William the Testy, and the Chivalric Achievements of Peter the Headstrong,--the
Three Dutch Governors of New Amsterdam: being the Only Authentic History of the Times that
ever hath been or ever will be published. By Diedrich Knickerbocker. The Author's Revised Edition.
Complete in One Volume. New York. Putnam. 12mo. pp. 472. $1.50.

The Confessions of Augustine. Edited, with an Introduction, by William G.T. Shedd. Andover.
Warren F. Draper. 12mo. pp. xxxvi., 417. $1.25.

History of the United States, from the Discovery of the American Continent. By George Bancroft.
Vol. VIII. Boston. Little, Brown, & Co. 8vo. pp. 475. $2.25

Quaker Quiddities; or, Friends in Council. A Colloquy. Boston. Crosby, Nichols, Lee, & Co.
16mo. pp. 48. 25 cts.

History of Genghis Khan. 60 cts.

Danesbury House. By Mrs. Henry Wood. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 282. 75 cts.

The Little Beauty. By Mrs. Grey, Author of "Passion and Principle," "Old Dower House," etc.
Philadelphia. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 626. 31.25.

Cicero on Oratory and Orators. Translated or edited by J.S. Watson. New York. Harper & Brothers.
16mo. pp. 379. New York. Harper & Brothers. 18mo. pp. xxiv., 248. 60 cts.

Class-Book of Botany. Being Outlines of the Structure, Physiology, and Classification of Plants.
With a Flora of All Parts of the United States and Canada. By Alphonso Wood, A.M. New York.
Barnes & Burr. 8vo. pp. 174. 75 cts.

Manual of Geology: Designed for the Use of Colleges and Academics. By Ebenezer Emmons, State
Geologist of North Carolina, late State Geologist of New York, Professor of Natural History
and Geology in Williams College, etc., etc. Illustrated with Numerous Engravings. Second Edition.
New York. Barnes & Burr. 8vo. pp. 297. $1.00.

Elements of English Composition, Grammatical, Rhetorical, Logical, and Practical. Prepared
for Academies and Schools. By James R. Boyd, A.M., Author of "Annotated Editions of English
Poets," of "Elements of Logic," of an Improved Edition of "Kames's Elements," etc. New York.
Barnes & Burr. 12mo. pp. 406. 75 cts.

Elements of Analytical Geometry and of the Differential and Integral Calculus. By Charles Davies,
LL.D., Professor of Higher Mathematics, Columbia College. New York. Barnes & Burr. 8vo. pp.
194. $1.00.

Natural History. For the Use of Schools and Families. By Worthington Hooker, M.D., Professor
of the Theory and Practice of Medicine in Yale College, Author of "Human Physiology," "Child's
Book of Nature," etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 382. $1.00.

Introduction to the Study of International Law, Designed as an Aid in Teaching, and in Historical
Studies. By Theodore D. Woolsey, President of Yale College. Boston. Munroe & Co. 12mo. pp.
xx., 486. $1.25.

Somnambulism and Cramp. By Baron Reichenbach. Translated from the German, by John S. Hittell.
New York. Calvin Blanchard. 12mo. pp. xxvi., 253. $1.00.

Right at Last, and Other Tales. By Mrs. Gaskell, Author of "Mary Barton," "Ruth," "Cranford,"
etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 305. 75 eta.

The Three Clerks. A Novel. By Anthony Trollope, Author of "Dr. Thorne," "The West Indies and
the Spanish Main," etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 497. $1.00. By the Rev. Dr.
J. Lewis Krapf, Secretary of the Chrishona Institute at Basel, and late Missionary in the Service
of the Church Missionary Society in Eastern and Equatorial Africa, etc., etc. With an Appendix
respecting the Snow-capped Mountains of Eastern Africa; the Sources of the Nile; the Languages
and Literature of Abessinia and Eastern Africa, etc., etc. And a Concise Account of the Geographical
Researches in Eastern Africa up to the Discovery of the Uyenycsi by Dr. Livingstone, in September
last. By E.J. Ravenstein, F.R.G.S. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 8vo. pp. xi., 464. $1.25.

The Pathfinder; or, The Inland Sea. $1.50.

The Union. Boston. Crocker & Brewster. 16mo. pp. 48. 50 cts.

The Hidden Gem. A Drama in Two Acts. Composed for the College Jubilee of St. Cuthberts, Ushaw,
1858. By H.E. Cardinal Wiseman. Baltimore. Kelly, Hedian, & Piet. 16mo. pp. 176. 75 cts.

Autobiographical Recollections. With Portrait. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. lx., 363. $1.25.

The Confederate Chieftains: A Tale of the Irish Rebellion of 1641. By Mrs. J. Sadlier, Author
of "New Lights," "Red Hand of Ulster," etc. New York. Sadlier & Co. 12mo. pp. 460. $1.25.

The Mount Vernon Papers. By Edward Everett. New York. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. xxii., 491. $1.25.

Leaves from a Bachelor's Book of Life. By Francis Copcutt. New York. Rollo. 12mo. pp. 250. $1.00.

Chamber's Encyclopædia; a Dictionary of Universal Knowledge for the People. On the Basis of
the Latest Edition of the German Conversations-Lexicon. Illustrated with Wood Engravings and
Maps. Parts XIV. and XV. New York. Appleton & Co. 8vo. [each part] 64 pp. 15 cts.

The Sand-Hills of Jutland. By Hans Christia Andersen, Author of the "Improvisatore," etc. Boston.
Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. iv., 267. Vol. I. New York. Harper & Brothers. 18mo. pp. 304. 40 cts.

Castle Richmond. A Novel. By Anthony Trollope, Author of "Doctor Thorne," "The Three Clerks,"
etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 474. $1.00.

Both Sides of the Grape Question. Together with a Classification of Species and Varieties of
the Grape-Vine. Philadelphia. Lippincott & Co. 16mo. paper, pp. 96. 25 cts.

Lovel the Widower. A Novel. By W.M. Thackeray, Author of "Vanity Fair," "Pendennis," "The Newcomes,"
etc. With Illustrations. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. paper, pp. 60. 25 cts.

The Avoidable Causes of Disease, Insanity, and Deformity. By John Ellis, M.D., Professor of
the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Western Medical College of Cleveland, Ohio;
Author of "Marriage and its Violations." A Book for the People as well as for the Profession.
New York. Mason Brothers. 16mo. pp. 348, 48. $1.25.

Life in the Desert: or, Recollections of Travel in Asia and Africa. By Colonel L. Du Couret,
(Hadji-Abd'el-Hamid-Bey,) Ex-Lieutenant of the Emirs of Mecca, Yémen, and Persia, Delegate
of the French Government to Central Africa, Member of the Société Orientale, Académie Nationale,
etc. Translated from the French. New York. Mason Brothers. 12mo. pp. 502. $1.25.

Immanuel. An Examination of the Two Natures of Christ in their Relations to Physiology and
Revelation. By P.W. Ellsworth, A.M., M.D. Hartford. D.B. Moseley, Printer. 8vo. paper, pp.
24. 15 cts.

The Barbarism of Slavery. Speech of Hon. Charles Sumner, on the Bill for the Admission of Kansas
as a Free State, in the United States Senate, June 4, 1860. Boston. Thayer & Eldredge. 8vo.
paper, pp. 118. 25 cts.