So he rushed in as fast as possible among the fir-trees, and inflicted such a vehement blow
with his sword on the wolf's head, that the animal, groaning piteously, fell to the ground.
Hereupon there came over the young man all at once a strange mood of regret and compassion
for his poor victim. Instead of putting it immediately to death, he bound up the wounds as
well as he could with moss and twigs of trees, placed it on a sort of canvas sling on which
he was in the habit of carrying great fagots, and with much labour brought it home, in hopes
that he might be able at last to cure and tame his fallen adversary. He did not find his father
in the cottage, and it was not without some fear and anxiety that he laid the wolf on his own
bed, which was made of moss and rushes, and over which he had nailed St. George and the Dragon.
He then turned to the fire-place of the small hut, in order to prepare a healing salve for
the wounds. While he was thus occupied, how much was he astonished to hear the moanings and
lamentations of a human voice from the bed on which he had just before deposited the wolf.
On returning thither his wonder was inexpressible on perceiving, instead of the frightful wild
beast, a most beautiful damsel, on whose head the wound which he had inflicted was bleeding
through her fine golden hair, and whose right arm, in all its grace and snow-white luxuriance,
was stretched out motionless, for it had been broken by the blow from his axe.

"Pray," said she, "have pity, and do not kill me outright. The little life that I have still
left is, indeed, painful enough, and may not last long; yet, sad as my condition is, it is
yet tenfold better than death."

The young man then sat down weeping beside her, and she explained to him that she was the daughter
of a magician, on the other side of the mountain, who had sent her out in the shape of a wolf
to collect plants from places which, in her own proper form, she could not have reached. It
was but in terror she had made that violent spring which the youth had mistaken for an attack
on him, when her only wish had been to pass by him.

"But you directly broke my right arm," said she, "though I had no evil design against you."

How she had now regained her proper shape she could not imagine, but to the youth it was quite
clear that the picture of St. George and the Dragon had broken the spell by which the poor
girl had been transformed.

While the son was thus occupied, the old man returned home, and soon heard all that had occurred,
perceiving, at the same time, that if the young pagan wanderer had been released from the spells
by which she had been bound, the youth was, in his turn, enchanted and spellbound by her beauty
and amiable behaviour.

From that moment he exerted himself to the utmost for the welfare of her soul, endeavouring
to convert her to Christianity, while his son attended to the cure of her wounds; and, as their
endeavours were on both sides successful, it was resolved that the lovers should be united
in marriage, for the youth had not restricted himself by any monastic vows.

The magician's daughter was now restored to perfect health. A day had been appointed for her
baptism and marriage. It happened that one evening the bride and bridegroom went to take a
pleasure walk through the woods. The sun was yet high in the west, and shone so fervently through
the beech-trees on the green turf that they could never resolve on turning home, but went still
deeper and deeper into the forest. Then the bride told him stories of her early life, and sang
old songs which she had learned when a child, and which sounded beautifully amid the woodland
solitude. Though the words were such that they could not be agreeable to the youth's ears (for
she had learned them among her pagan and wicked relations), yet he could not interrupt her,
first, because he loved her so dearly, and, secondly, because she sang in a voice so clear
and sweet that the whole forest seemed to rejoice in her music. At last, however, the pointed
heads of the pine-trees again became visible, and the youth wished to turn back, in order that
he might not come again too near the hated Finnish frontier. His bride, however, said to him--

"Dearest Conrad, why should we not walk on a little further? I would gladly see the very place
where you so cruelly wounded me on the head and arm, and made me prisoner, all which has, in
the end contributed to my happiness. Methinks we are now very near the spot."

Accordingly they sought about here and there until at last the twilight fell dim and heavy
on the dense woods. The sun had long since set. The moon, however, had risen, and, as a light
broke forth, the lovers stood on the Finland frontier, or rather they must have gone already
some distance beyond it, for the bridegroom was exceedingly terrified when he found his cap
lifted from his head, as if by human hand, though he saw only the branch of a fir-tree. Immediately
thereafter the whole air around them was filled with strange and supernatural beings--witches,
devils, dwarfs, horned-owls, fire-eyed cats, and a thousand other wretches that could not be
named and described, whirled around them as if dancing to rapid music. When the bride had looked
on for a while, she broke out into loud laughter, and at last began to dance furiously along
with them. The poor bridegroom might shout and pray as much and as earnestly as he would, for
she never attended to him, but at last transformed herself in a manner so extraordinary that
he could not distinguish her from the other dancers. He thought, however, that he had kept
his eyes upon her, and seized on one of the dancers; but alas! it was only a horrible spectre
which held him fast, and threw its wide waving shroud around him, so that he could not make
his escape, while, at the same time, some of the subterraneous black demons pulled at his legs,
and wanted to bear him down along with them into their bottomless caves.

Fortunately he happened at that moment to cross himself and call on the name of the Saviour,
upon which the whole of this vile assembly fell into confusion. They howled aloud and ran off
in all directions, while Conrad in the meantime saved himself by recrossing the frontier, and
getting under the protection of the Swedish copsewood. His beautiful bride, however, was completely
lost; and by no endeavours could he ever obtain her again, though he often came to the Finland
border, called out her name aloud, wept and prayed, but all in vain. Many times, it is true,
he saw her floating about through the pine-trees, as if in chase, but she was always accompanied
by a train of frightful creatures, and she herself also looked wild and disfigured. For the
most part she never noticed Conrad, but if she could not help fixing her eyes upon him, she
laughed so immoderately, and in a mood of merriment so strange and unnatural, that he was terrified
and made the sign of the cross, whereupon she always fled away, howling, into one of the thickets.

Conrad fell more and more into melancholy abstraction, hardly ever spoke, and though he had
given over his vain walks into the forest, yet if one asked him a question, the only answer
he returned was--

"Ay, she is gone away beyond the mountains," so little did he know or remember of any other
object in the world but the lost beauty.

At last he died of grief; and according to a request which he had once made, his father prepared
a grave for him on the place where the bride was found and lost, though during the fulfilment
of this duty he had enough to do--one while in contending with his crucifix against evil spirits,
and at another, with his sword against wild beasts, which were no doubt sent thither by the
magicians to attack and annoy him. At length, however, he brought his task to an end, and thereafter
it seemed as if the bride mourned for the youth's untimely death, for there was heard often
a sound of howling and lamentation at the grave. For the most part, indeed, this voice is like
the voices of wolves, yet, at the same time, human accents are to be distinguished, and I myself
have often listened thereto on dark winter nights.

Alas! that the poor maiden should have ventured again so near the accursed paths she had once
renounced. A few steps in the backward course, and all is lost!

THE HILL-MAN INVITED TO THE CHRISTENING.

The hill-people are excessively frightened during thunder. When, therefore, they see bad weather
coming on, they lose no time in getting to the shelter of their hills. This terror is also
the cause of their not being able to endure the beating of a drum. They take it to be the rolling
of thunder. It is, therefore, a good recipe for banishing them to beat a drum every day in
the neighbourhood of their hills, for they immediately pack up, and depart to some quieter
residence.

A farmer lived once in great friendship and concord with a hill-man, whose hill was in his
lands. One time when his wife was about to have a child, it gave him great perplexity to think
that he could not well avoid inviting the hill-man to the christening, which might, not improbably,
bring him into ill repute with the priest and the other people of the village. He was going
about pondering deeply, but in vain, how he might get out of this dilemma, when it came into
his head to ask the advice of the boy that kept his pigs, who had a great head-piece, and had
often helped him before. The pig-boy instantly undertook to arrange the matter with the hill-man
in such a manner that he should not only stay away without being offended, but, moreover, give
a good christening present.

Accordingly, when it was night, he took a sack on his shoulder, went to the hill-man's hill,
knocked, and was admitted. He delivered his message, gave his master's compliments, and requested
the honour of his company at the christening. The hill-man thanked him, and said--

"I think it is but right I should give you a christening present."

With these words he opened his money-chests, bidding the boy hold up his sack while he poured
money into it.

"Is there enough now?" said he, when he had put a good quantity into it.

"Many give more, few give less," replied the boy.

The hill-man once more fell to filling the sack, and again asked--

"Is there enough now?"

The boy lifted the sack a little off the ground to see if he was able to carry any more, and
then answered--

"It is about what most people give."

Upon this the hill-man emptied the whole chest into the bag, and once more asked--

"Is there enough now?"

The guardian of the pigs now saw that there was as much in the sack as he would be able to
carry, so he answered--

"No one gives more, most people give less."

"Come now," said the hill-man, "let us hear who else is to be at the christening."

"Ah," said the boy, "we are to have a great many strangers and great people. First and foremost,
we are to have three priests and a bishop."

"Hem!" muttered the hill-man; "however, those gentlemen usually look only after the eating
and drinking; they will never take any notice of me. Well, who else?"

"Then we have asked St. Peter and St. Paul."

"Hem! hem! However, there will be a bye-place for me behind the stove. Well, and what then?"

"Then Our Lady herself is coming."

"Hem! hem! hem! However, guests of such high rank come late and go away early. But tell me,
my lad, what sort of music is it you are to have?"

"Music," said the boy, "why, we are to have drums."

"Drums!" repeated the troll, quite terrified. "No, no! Thank you. I shall stay at home in that
case. Give my best respects to your master, and I thank him for the invitation, but I cannot
come. I did but once go out to take a little walk, and some people began to beat a drum. I
hurried home, and was but just got to my door when they flung the drum-stick after me, and
broke one of my shins. I have been lame of that leg ever since, and I shall take good care
in future to avoid that sort of music."

So saying he helped the boy to put the sack on his back, once more charging him to present
his best respects to his master.

THE MEAL OF FROTHI.

Gold is called by the poets the meal of Frothi, and the origin of the term is found in this story.

Odin had a son named Skioldr who settled and reigned in the land which is now called Denmark,
but was then called Gotland. Skioldr had a son named Frithleif, who reigned after him. Frithleif's
son was called Frothi, and succeeded him on the throne. At the time that the Emperor Augustus
made peace over the whole world, Christ was born, but as Frothi was the most powerful of all
the monarchs of the north, that peace, wherever the Danish language was spoken, was imputed
to him, and the Northmen called it Frothi's peace.

At that time no man hurt another, even if he found the murderer of his father or brother, loose
or bound. Theft and robbery were then unknown, insomuch that a gold armlet lay for a long time
untouched in Jalangursheath.

Frothi chanced to go on a friendly visit to a certain king in Sweden, named Fiolnir, and there
purchased two female slaves, called Fenia and Menia, equally distinguished for their stature
and strength. In those days there were found in Denmark two quern-stones of such a size, that
no one was able to move them, and these mill-stones were endued with such virtue, that the
quern in grinding produced whatever the grinder wished for. The quern was called Grotti. He
who presented this quern to Frothi was called Hengikioptr (hanging-chops). King Frothi caused
these slaves to be brought to the quern, and ordered them to grind gold, peace, and prosperity
for Frothi. The king allowed them no longer rest or sleep than while the cuckoo was silent
or a verse could be recited. Then they are said to have sung the lay called Grotta-Savngr,
and before they ended their song to have ground a hostile army against Frothi, insomuch, that
a certain sea-king, called Mysingr, arriving the same night, slew Frothi, taking great spoil.
And so ended Frothi's peace.

Mysingr took with him the quern, Grotti, with Fenia and Menia, and ordered them to grind salt.
About midnight they asked Mysingr whether he had salt enough. On his ordering them to go on
grinding, they went on a little longer till the ship sank under the weight of the salt. A whirlpool
was produced, where the waves are sucked up by the mill-eye, and the waters of the sea have
been salt ever since.

THE LOST BELL.

A shepherd's boy, belonging to Patzig, about half a mile from Bergen, where there are great
numbers of underground people in the hills, found one morning a little silver bell on the green
heath among the giants' graves, and fastened it on him. It happened to be the bell belonging
to the cap of one of the little brown ones, who had lost it while he was dancing, and did not
immediately miss it or observe that it was no longer tinkling in his cap. He had gone down
into the hill without his bell, and, having discovered his loss, was filled with melancholy,
for the worst thing that can befall the underground people is to lose their cap, or their shoes;
but even to lose the bell from their caps, or the buckle from their belts, is no trifle to
them. Whoever loses his bell must pass some sleepless nights, for not a wink of sleep can he
get till he has recovered it.

The little fellow was in the greatest trouble, and looked and searched about everywhere. But
how could he learn who had the bell? for only on a very few days in the year may they come
up to daylight, nor can they then appear in their true form. He had turned himself into every
form of birds, beasts, and men, and he had sung and groaned and lamented about his bell, but
not the slightest tidings or trace of tidings had he been able to get. Most unfortunately for
him, the shepherd's boy had left Patzig the very day he found the little bell, and he was now
keeping sheep at Unrich, near Gingst, so that it was not till many a day after, and then by
mere chance, that the little underground fellow recovered his bell, and with it his peace of mind.

He had thought it not unlikely that a raven, or a crow, or a jackdaw, or a magpie, had found
his bell, and from its thievish disposition, which attracts it to anything bright and shining,
had carried it into its nest. With this thought he turned himself into a beautiful little bird,
and searched all the nests in the island, and he'd sang before all kinds of birds to see if
they had found what he had lost, and could restore to him his sleep. He had, however, been
able to learn nothing from the birds. As he now, one evening, was flying over the waters of
Ralov and the fields of Unrich, the shepherd's boy, whose name was John Schlagenteufel (Smite-devil),
happened to be keeping his sheep there at the very time. Several of the sheep had bells about
their necks, and they tinkled merrily when the boy's dog set them trotting. The little bird
who was flying over them thought of his bell, and sang in a melancholy tone----

 "Little bell, little bell,
 Little ram as well,
 You, too, little sheep,
 If you've my tingle too,
 No sheep's so rich as you,
 My rest you keep."

The boy looked up and listened to this strange song which came out of the sky, and saw the
pretty bird, which seemed to him still more strange.

"If one," said he to himself, "had but that bird that's singing up there, so plain that one
of us could hardly match him! What can he mean by that wonderful song? The whole of it is,
it must be a feathered witch. My rams have only pinchbeck bells, he calls them rich cattle;
but I have a silver bell, and he sings nothing about me."

With these words he began to fumble in his pocket, took out his bell, and rang it.

The bird in the air instantly saw what it was, and rejoiced beyond measure. He vanished in
a second, flew behind the nearest bush, alighted, and drew off his speckled feather dress,
and turned himself into an old woman dressed in tattered clothes. The old dame, well supplied
with sighs and groans, tottered across the field to the shepherd-boy, who was still ringing
his bell and wondering what was become of the beautiful bird. She cleared her throat, and coughing,
bid him a kind good evening, and asked him which was the way to Bergen. Pretending then that
she had just seen the little bell, she exclaimed--

"Well now, what a charming pretty little bell! Well, in all my life, I never beheld anything
more beautiful. Hark ye, my son, will you sell me that bell? What may be the price of it? I
have a little grandson at home, and such a nice plaything as it would make for him!"

"No," replied the boy, quite short; "the bell is not for sale. It is a bell that there is not
such another bell in the whole world. I have only to give it a little tinkle, and my sheep
run of themselves wherever I would have them go. And what a delightful sound it has! Only listen,
mother," said he, ringing it; "is there any weariness in the world that can hold out against
this bell? I can ring with it away the longest time, so that it will be gone in a second."

The old woman thought to herself--

"We will see if he can hold out against bright shining money," and she took out no less than
three silver dollars and offered them to him, but he still replied--

"No, I will not sell the bell."

She then offered him five dollars.