"Black folks wuz better folks den dey is now. Dey knowed dey hed ter be good er dey got beat.
De gals dey diden't sho' dare laigs lak dey do now. Cloff hed ter be made den, en hit wuz er
heap mo' trouble ter mek er yahd er cloff, den it is ter buy it now, but 'omans en gals, dey
stayed kivvered up better den. Why, Ah 'member one time my mammy seed me cummin' crost de yahd
en she say mah dress too short. She tuk it offen me, en rip out de hem, en ravel at de aig'
er little, en den fus' thing I knows, she got dat dress tail on ter de loom, en weave more
cloff on hit, twel it long enuf, lak she want it."

"Long 'bout dat time dey wuz killin' hawgs on de plantation, en it wuz er moughty cole day.
Miss Millie, she tell me fer ter tote dis quart er brandy out dar fer ter warm up de mens dat
wuz er wukkin in de cole win'. 'Long de way, Ah keep er sippin' dat brandy, en time Ah got
ter de hawg killin' place Ah wuz crazy drunk en tryin' ter sing. Dat time 'twon't no overseer
beat me. Dem slave mens beat me den fo' drinkin' dat likker."

"Mah folks stayed on en wukked fo' Marse Ned long atter de war. When Ah wuz mos' grown mah
fam'ly moved ter Logansville. No, Ma'am, I ain't nebber been so free en happy es when I diden'
hev ter worry 'bout whar de vittles en close gwine cum fum, en all Ah had ter do wuz wuk evvy
day lak mah whitefolks tole me."

[HW: Dist. 5 (Driskell) Ex Slave #69]

AMANDA MCDANIEL, 80 yrs old Ex-slave [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Among these few remaining persons who have lived long enough to tell of some of their experiences
during the reign of "King Slavery" in the United States is one Mrs. Amanda McDaniel.

As she sat on the porch in the glare of the warm October sun she presented a perfect picture
of the old Negro Mammy commonly seen during the days of slavery. She smiled as she expectorated
a large amount of the snuff she was chewing and began her story in the following manner: "I
was born in Watsonville, Georgia in 1850. My mother's name was Matilda Hale and my father was
Gilbert Whitlew. My mother and father belonged to different master's, but the plantations that
they lived on were near each other and so my father was allowed to visit us often. My mother
had two other girls who were my half-sisters. You see--my mother was sold to the speculator
in Virginia and brought to Georgia where she was sold to Mr. Hale, who was our master until
freedom was declared. When she was sold to the speculator the two girls who were my half-sisters
had to be sold with her because they were too young to be separated from their mother. My father,
Gilbert Whitlew, was my mother's second husband.

"Mr. Hale, our master, was not rich like some of the other planters in the community. His plantation
was a small one and he only had eight servants who were all women. He wasn't able to hire an
overseer and all of the heavy work such as the plowing was done by his sons. Mrs. Hale did
all of her own cooking and that of the slaves too. In all Mr. Hale had eleven children. I had
to nurse three of them before I was old enough to go to the field to work."

When asked to tell about the kind of work the slaves had to do Mrs. McDaniel said: "Our folks
had to get up at four o'clock every morning and feed the stock first. By the time it was light
enough to see they had to be in the fields where they hoed the cotton and the corn as well
as the other crops. Between ten and eleven o'clock everybody left the field and went to the
house where they worked until it was too dark to see. My first job was to take breakfast to
those working in the fields. I used buckets for this. Besides this I had to drive the cows
to and from the pasture. The rest of the day was spent in taking care of Mrs. Hale's young
children. After a few years of this I was sent to the fields where I planted peas, corn, etc.
I also had to pick cotton when that time came, but I never had to hoe and do the heavy work
like my mother and sisters did." According to Mrs. McDaniel they were seldom required to work
at night after they had left the fields but when such occasions did arise they were usually
in the form of spinning thread and weaving cloth. During the winter months this was the only
type of work that they did. On days when the weather was too bad for work out of doors they
shelled the corn and peas and did other minor types of work not requiring too much exposure.
Nobody had to work on Saturday afternoons or on Sundays. It was on Saturdays or at night that
the slaves had the chance to do their own work such as the repairing of clothing, etc.

On the Hale plantation clothing was issued two times each year, once at the beginning of summer
and again at the beginning of the winter season. On this first issue all were given striped
dresses made of cotton material. These dresses were for wear during the week while dresses
made of white muslin were given for Sunday wear. The dye which was necessary in order to color
those clothes worn during the week was made by boiling red dirt or the bark of trees in water.
Sometimes the indigo berry was also used. The winter issue consisted of dresses made of woolen
material. The socks and stockings were all knitted. All of this wearing apparel was made by
Mrs. Hale. The shoes that these women slaves wore were made in the nearby town at a place known
as the tan yards. These shoes were called "Brogans" and they were very crude in construction
having been made of very stiff leather. None of the clothing that was worn on this plantation
was bought as everything necessary for the manufacture of clothing was available on the premises.

As has been previously stated, Mrs. Hale did all of the cooking on the plantation with the
possible exception of Sundays when the slaves cooked for themselves. During the week their
diet usually consisted of corn bread, fat meat, vegetables, milk, and potliquor. The food that
they ate on Sunday was practically the same. All the food that they ate was produced in the
master's garden and there was a sufficient amount for everyone at all times.

There were two one-room log cabins in the rear of the master's house. These cabins were dedicated
to slave use. Mrs. McDaniel says: "The floors were made of heavy wooden planks. At one end
of the cabin was the chimney which was made out of dried mud, sticks, and dirt. On the side
of the cabin opposite the door there was a window where we got a little air and a little light.
Our beds were made out of the same kind of wood that the floors were and we called them "Bed-Stilts."
Slats were used for springs while the mattresses were made of large bags stuffed with straw.
At night we used tallow candles for light and sometimes fat pine that we called light-wood.
As Mrs. Hale did all of our cooking we had very few pots and pans. In the Winter months we
used to take mud and close the cracks left in the wall where the logs did not fit close together."

According to Mrs. McDaniel all the serious illnesses were handled by a doctor who was called
in at such times. At other times Mr. or Mrs. Hale gave them either castor oil or salts. Sometimes
they were given a type of oil called "lobelia oil." At the beginning of the spring season they
drank various teas made out of the roots that they gathered in the surrounding woods. The only
one that Mrs. McDaniel remembers is that which was made from sassafras roots. "This was good
to clean the system," says Mrs. McDaniel. Whenever they were sick they did not have to report
to the master's house each day as was the case on some of the other plantations. There were
never any pretended illnesses to avoid work as far as Mrs. McDaniel knows.

On Sunday all of the slaves on the Hale plantation were permitted to dress in their Sunday
clothes and go to the white church in town. During the morning services they sat in the back
of the church where they listened to the white pastor deliver the sermon. In the afternoon
they listened to a sermon that was preached by a colored minister. Mrs. McDaniel hasn't the
slightest idea of what these sermons were about. She remembers how marriages were performed,
however, although the only one that she ever witnessed took place on one of the neighboring
plantations. After a broom was placed on the ground a white minister read the scriptures and
then the couple in the process of being married jumped over this broom. They were then considered
as man and wife.

Whippings were very uncommon the the Hale plantation. Sometimes Mr. Hale had to resort to this
form of punishment for disobedience on the part of some of the servants. Mrs. McDaniel says
that she was whipped many times but only once with the cowhide. Nearly every time that she
was whipped a switch was used. She has seen her mother as well as some of the others punished
but they were never beaten unmercifully. Neither she or any of the other slaves on the Hale
plantation ever came in contact with the "Paddie-Rollers," whom they knew as a group of white
men who went around whipping slaves who were caught away from their respective homes without
passes from their masters. When asked about the buying and the selling of slaves Mrs. McDaniel
said that she had never witnessed an auction at which slaves were being sold and that the only
thing she knew about this was what she had been told by her mother who had been separated from
her husband and sold in Georgia. Mr. Hale never had the occasion to sell any of those slaves
that he held.

Mrs. McDaniel remembers nothing of the talk that transpired between the slaves or her owners
at the beginning of the war. She says: "I was a little girl, and like the other children then,
I didn't have as much sense as the children of today who are of the age that I was then. I
do remember that my master moved somewhere near Macon, Georgia after General Wheeler marched
through. I believe that he did more damage than the Yanks did when they came through. When
my master moved us along with his family we had to go out of the way a great deal because General
Wheeler had destroyed all of the bridges. Besides this he damaged a great deal of the property
that he passed." Continuing, Mrs. McDaniel said: "I didn't see any of the fighting but I did
hear the firing of the cannons. I also saw any number of Confederate soldiers pass by our place."
Mr. Hale didn't join the army although his oldest son did.

At the time that the slaves were freed it meant nothing in particular to Mrs. McDaniel, who
says that she was too young to pay much attention to what was happening. She never saw her
father after they moved away from Watsonville. At any rate she and her mother remained in the
service of Mr. Hale for a number of years after the war. In the course of this time Mr. Hale
grew to be a wealthy man. He continued to be good to those servants who remained with him.
After she was a grown woman Mrs. McDaniel left Mr. Hale as she was then married.

Mrs. McDaniel says that she has reached such an old age because she has always taken care of
herself, which is more than the young people of today are doing, she added as an after thought.

Dist. 7 Ex. Slave #74

TOM McGRUDER, 102 years old Ex-Slave

By Elizabeth Watson, Hawkinsville, Georgia [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Tom McGruder, one of the oldest living ex-slaves in Pulaski County, was sitting on the porch
of his son's home when we went in to see him. His grizzled old head began to nod a "Good morning"
and his brown face became wreathed in smiles when he saw us.

He looked very small as he sat in a low straight chair by the door. His shirt and overalls
were ragged but spotlessly clean. On his feet were heavy shoes that were kept free from dirt.
His complexion was not black as some of the other members of his race but was a light brown.
There were very few wrinkles in his face considering the fact that he was one hundred and two
years old in June. He spoke in a quiet voice though somewhat falteringly as he suffers greatly
from asthma.

"Were you born in this county, Uncle Tom?" we asked.

"No mam, Missus," he replied. "Me and my mother and sister wuz brought from Virginia to this
state by the speculators and sold here. I was only about eighteen or twenty and I was sold
for $1250. My mother was given to one of Old Marster's married chillun.

"You see, Missus," he spoke again after a long pause. "We wuz put on the block just like cattle
and sold to one man today and another tomorrow. I wuz sold three times after coming to this state."

Tom could tell us very little about his life on the large plantations because his feeble old
mind would only be clear at intervals. He would begin relating some incident but would suddenly
break off with, "I'd better leave that alone 'cause I done forgot." He remembered, however,
that he trained dogs for his "whie folks," trained them to be good hunters as that was one
of the favorite sports of the day.

The last man to whom Tom was sold was Mr. Jim McGruder, of Emanuel County. He was living in
a small cabin belonging to Mr. McGruder, when he married. "I 'members", said Tom, "That Old
Marster and Missus fixed up a lunch and they and their chillun brought it to my cabin. Then
they said, 'Nigger, jump the broom' and we wuz married, 'cause you see we didn't know nothing
'bout no cer'mony."

It was with Mr. McGruder that Tom entered the army, working for him as his valet.

"I wuz in the army for 'bout four years," Tom said. "I fought in the battles at Petersburg,
Virginia and Chattanooga, Tennessee. I looked after Old Marster's shoes and clothes. Old Marster,
what he done he done well. He was kind to me and I guess better to me sometimes than I deserved
but I had to do what he told me."

"Do you remember any of the old songs you used to sing?" we asked. "Missus, I can't sing no
mo'," he replied. But pausing for a few minutes he raised his head and sang in a quiet voice,
the words and melody perfectly clear;

  "Why do you wait, dear brother,
     Oh, why do you tarry so long?
   Your Saviour is waiting to give you
     A place in His sanctified throng."

PLANTATION LIFE as viewed by ex-slave

SUSAN McINTOSH, Age 87 1203 W. Hancook Avenue Athens, Georgia

Written by: Sadie B. Hornsby Federal Writers' Project Athens, Ga.

Edited by: Sarah H. Hall Athens

John N. Booth Augusta

Leila Harris Augusta

April 28, 1938 [Date Stamp: MAY 6 1938]

A driving rain sent the interviewer scurrying into the house of Susan McIntosh who lives with
her son, Dr. Andrew Jones, at the corner of Hancock Avenue and Billups Street.

Susan readily gave her story: "They tell me I was born in November 1851," she said, "and I
know I've been here a long time 'cause I've seen so many come and go. I've outlived 'most all
of my folks 'cept my son that I live with now. Honey, I've 'most forgot about slavery days.
I don't read, and anyway there ain't no need to think of them times now. I was born in Oconee
County on Judge William Stroud's plantation. We called him Marse Billy. That was a long time
before Athens was the county seat. Ma's name was Mary Jen, and Pa was Christopher Harris. They
called him Chris for short. Marster Young L.G. Harris bought him from Marster Hudson of Elbert
County and turned him over to his niece, Miss Lula Harris, when she married Marster Robert
Taylor. Marse Robert was a son of General Taylor what lived in the Grady house before it belonged
to Mr. Henry Grady's mother. Pa was coachman and house boy for Miss Lula.

"Marse Billy owned Ma, and Marse Robert owned Pa, and Pa, he come to see Ma about once or twice
a month. The Taylor's, they done a heap of travellin' and always took my Pa with 'em. Oh! there
was thirteen of us chillun, seven died soon after they was born, and none of 'em lived to git
grown 'cept me. Their names was Nanette and Ella, what was next to me; Susan--thats me; Isabelle,
Martha, Mary, Diana, Lila, William, Gus, and the twins what was born dead; and Harden. He was
named for a Dr. Harden what lived here then.

"Marse Billy bought my gran'ma in Virginia. She was part Injun. I can see her long, straight,
black hair now, and when she died she didn't have gray hair like mine. They say Injuns don't
turn gray like other folks. Gran'ma made cloth for the white folks and slaves on the plantation.
I used to hand her thread while she was weavin'. The lady what taught Gran'ma to weave cloth,
was Mist'ess Gowel, and she was a foreigner, 'cause she warn't born in Georgia. She had two
sons what run the factory between Watkinsville and Athens. My aunt, Mila Jackson, made all
the thread what they done the weavin' with. Gran'pa worked for a widow lady what was a simster
(seamstress) and she just had a little plantation. She was Mist'ess Doolittle. All Gran'pa
done was cut wood, 'tend the yard and gyarden. He had rheumatism and couldn't do much.

"There ain't much to tell about what we done in the slave quarters, 'cause when we got big
enough, we had to work: nussin' the babies, totin' water, and helpin' Gran'ma with the weavin',
and such like. Beds was driv to the walls of the cabin; foot and headboard put together with
rails, what run from head to foot. Planks was laid crossways and straw put on them and the
beds was kivvered with the whitest sheets you ever seen. Some made pallets on the floor.

"No, Ma'am, I didn't make no money 'til after freedom. I heard tell of ten and fifteen cents,
but I didn't know nothing 'bout no figgers. I didn't know a nickel from a dime them days.

"Yes, Ma'am, Marse Billy 'lowed his slaves to have their own gyardens, and 'sides plenty of
good gyarden sass, we had milk and butter, bread and meat, chickens, greens, peas, and just
everything that growed on the farm. Winter and summer, all the food was cooked in a great big
fireplace, about four feet wide, and you could put on a whole stick of cord wood at a time.
When they wanted plenty of hot ashes to bake with, they burnt wood from ash trees. Sweet potatoes
and bread was baked in the ashes. Seems like vittuls don't taste as good as they used to, when
we cooked like that. 'Possums, Oh! I dearly love 'possums. My cousins used to catch 'em and
when they was fixed up and cooked with sweet potatoes, 'possum meat was fit for a king. Marse
Billy had a son named Mark, what was a little bitty man. They said he was a dwarf. He never
done nothing but play with the children on the plantation. He would take the children down
to the crick what run through the plantation and fish all day. We had rabbits, but they was
most generally caught in a box trap, so there warn't no time wasted a-huntin' for 'em.

"In summer, the slave women wore white homespun and the men wore pants and shirts made out
of cloth what looked like overall cloth does now. In winter, we wore the same things, 'cept
Marse Billy give the men woolen coats what come down to their knees, and the women wore warm
wraps what they called sacks. On Sunday we had dresses dyed different colors. The dyes were
made from red clay and barks. Bark from pines, sweetgums, and blackjacks was boiled, and each
one made a different color dye. The cloth made at home was coarse and was called 'gusta cloth.
Marse Billy let the slaves raise chickens, and cows, and have cotton patches too. They would
sell butter, eggs, chickens, brooms, made out of wheat straw and such like. They took the money
and bought calico, muslin and good shoes, pants, coats and other nice things for their Sunday
clothes. Marse Billy bought leather from Marster Brumby's tanyard and had shoes made for us.
They was coarse and rough, but they lasted a long time.

"My Marster was father-in-law of Dr. Jones Long. Marse Billy's wife, Miss Rena, died long before
I was born. Their six children was all grown when I first knowed 'em. The gals was: Miss Rena,
Miss Selena, Miss Liza, and Miss Susan. Miss Susan was Dr. Long's wife. I was named for her.
There was two boys; Marse John and Marse Mark. I done told you 'bout Marse Mark bein' a dwarf.
They lived in a big old eight room house, on a high hill in sight of Mars Hill Baptist Church.
Marse Billy was a great deacon in that church. Yes, Ma'am, he sho' was good to his Negroes.
I heard 'em say that after he had done bought his slaves by working in a blacksmith shop, and
wearin' cheap clothes, like mulberry suspenders, he warn't goin' to slash his Negroes up. The
older folks admired Mist'ess and spoke well of her. They said she had lots more property than
Marse Billy. She said she wanted Marse Billy to see that her slaves was give to her children.
I 'spose there was about a hundred acres on that plantation and Marse Billy owned more property
besides. There was about fifty grown folks and as to the children, I just don't know how many
there was. Around the quarters looked like a little town.

"Marse Billy had a overseer up to the time War broke out, then he picked out a reliable colored
man to carry out his orders. Sometimes the overseer got rough, then Marse Billy let him go
and got another one. The overseer got us up about four or five o'clock in the morning, and
dark brought us in at night.

"Jails! Yes, Ma'am, I ricollect one was in Watkinsville. No, Ma'am, I never saw nobody auctioned
off, but I heard about it. Men used to come through an buy up slaves for foreign states where
there warn't so many.

"Well, I didn't have no privilege to learn to read and write, but the white lady what taught
my gran'ma to weave, had two sons what run the factory, and they taught my uncles to read and
write.

"There warn't no church on the plantation, so we went to Mars Hill Church. The white folks
went in the mornings from nine 'til twelve and the slaves went in the evenings from three 'till
about five. The white folks went in the front door and slaves used the back door. Rev. Bedford
Lankford, what preached to the white folks helped a Negro, named Cy Stroud, to preach to the
Negroes. Oh! Yes, Ma'am, I well remembers them baptizings. I believe in church and baptizing.

"They buried the slaves on the plantation, in coffins made out of pine boards. Didn't put them
in two boxes lak dey does now, and dey warn't painted needer.

"Did you say patterollers? Sho' I seen 'em, but they didn't come on our plantation, 'cause
Marse Billy was good to his Negroes and when they wanted a pass, if it was for a good reason,
he give 'em one. Didn't none of Marse Billy's slaves run off to no North. When Marse Billy
had need to send news somewhere, he put a reliable Negro on a mule and sent him. I sho' didn't
hear about no trouble twixt white folks and Negroes.

"I tell you, Honey, when the days work was over them slaves went to bed, 'cep' when the moon
was out and they worked in their own cotton patches. On dark nights, the women mended and quilted
sometimes. Not many worked in the fields on Saturday evenin's. They caught up on little jobs
aroun' the lot; a mending harness and such like. On Saturday nights the young folks got together
and had little frolics and feasts, but the older folks was gettin' things ready for Sunday,
'cause Marse Billy was a mighty religious man: we had to go to church, and every last one of
the children was dragged along too.

"We always had one week for Christmas. They brought us as much of good things to eat as we
could destroy in one week, but on New Year's Day we went back to work. No, Ma'am, as I ricollect,
we didn't have no corn shuckings or cotton pickings only what we had to do as part of our regular
work.

"The white folks mostly got married on Wednesday or Thursday evenin's. Oh! they had fine times,
with everything good to eat, and lots of dancing too. Then they took a trip. Some went to Texas
and some to Chicago. They call Chicago, the colored folks' New York now. I don't remember no
weddings 'mongst the slaves. My cousin married on another plantation, but I warn't there.

"Where I was, there warn't no playing done, only 'mongst the little chillun, and I can't remember
much that far back. I recall that we sung a little song, about:

  'Little drops of water
   Little grains of sand,
   Make the mighty ocean
   And the pleasant land.'

"Oh! Yes, Ma'am, Marse Billy was good to his slaves, when they got sick. He called in Dr. Jones
Long, Dr. Harden, and Dr. Lumpkin when they was real sick. There was lots of typhoid fever
then. I don't know nothing about no herbs, they used for diseases; only boneset and hoarhound
tea for colds and croup. They put penrile (pennyroyal) in the house to keep out flies and fleas,
and if there was a flea in the house he would shoo from that place right then and there.

"The old folks put little bags of assfiddy (assafoetida) around their chillun's necks to keep
off measles and chickenpox, and they used turpentine and castor oil on chillun's gums to make
'em teethe easy. When I was living on Milledge Avenue, I had Dr. Crawford W. Long to see about
one of my babies, and he slit that baby's gums so the teeth could come through. That looked
might bad to me, but they don't believe in old ways no more."

She laughed and said: "No, Ma'am, I don't know nothing about such low down things as hants
and ghosts! Rawhead and Bloody Bones, I just thought he was a skelerpin, with no meat on him.
Course lots of Negroes believe in ghosts and hants. Us chillun done lots of flightin' like
chillun will do. I remember how little Marse Mark Stroud used to take all the little boys on
the plantation and teach 'em to play Dixie on reeds what they called quills. That was good
music, but the radio has done away with all that now.

"I knowed I was a slave and that it was the War that sot me free. It was 'bout dinner time
when Marse Billy come to the door and called us to the house. He pulled out a paper and read
it to us, and then he said: 'You all are free, as I am.' We couldn't help thinking about what
a good marster he always had been, and how old, and feeble, and gray headed he looked as he
kept on a-talkin' that day. 'You all can stay on here with me if you want to,' he 'lowed, 'but
if you do, I will have to pay you wages for your work.'

"I never saw no Yankees in Athens, but I was in Atlanta at Mrs. Winship's on Peachtree Street,
when General Sherman come to that town 'parin' his men for to go home. There was about two
thousand in all, white and black. They marched up and down Marietta Street from three o'clock
in the evening 'til seven o'clock next morning. Then they left. I remember well that there
warn't a house left standing in Atlanta, what warn't riddled with shell holes. I was scared
pretty nigh to death and I never want to leave home at no time like that again. But Pa saw
'em soon after that in Athens. They was a marching down Broad Street on their way to Macon,
and Pa said it looked like a blue cloud going through.

"Ma and me stayed on with Marse Billy 'bout six months after the War ended before we come to
town to live with Pa. We lived right back of Rock College and Ma took in washin' for the folks
what went to school there. No, Ma'am I never saw no Ku Kluxers. Me and Ma didn't leave home
at night and the white folks wouldn't let 'em git Pa.

"Major Knox brought three or four teachers to teach in a school for Negroes that was started
up here the first year after the War. Major Knox, he was left like a sort of Justice of Peace
to get things to going smooth after the War. I went to school there about three months, then
Ma took sick, and I didn't go no more. My white teacher was Miss Sarah, and she was from Chicago.

"Now and then the Negroes bought a little land, and white folks gave little places to some
Negroes what had been good slaves for 'em.

"I didn't take in about Mr. Abraham Lincoln. A long time after the War, I heard 'em say he
got killed. I knowed Mr. Jeff. Davis was President of the Confederacy. As for Booker Washington,
I never saw him, but I heard his son whan he was here once and gave a musical of some sort
at the Congregational Church.

"I was a old gal when I married 'bout thirty or forty years after the War. I married George
McIntosh. Wedding clothes!" she chuckled, and said: "I didn't have many. I bought 'em second
hand from Mrs. Ed. Bond. They was nice though. The dress I married in was red silk. We had
a little cake and wine; no big to do, just a little fambly affair. Of our four chillun, two
died young, and two lived to git grown. My daughter was a school teacher and she has been dead
sometime. I stays wid my only living child. My husban' died a long time ago.

"I cooked and washed for Mr. Prince Hodgson for thirty years. Miss Mary Franklin used to tell
me 'bout all them strange places she had been to while she was paintin'. There never was nobody
in this town could paint prettier pictures than Miss Mary's.

"I'm glad slavery is over. I'm too old to really work anymore, but I'm like a fish going down
the crick and if he sees a bug he will catch him if he can.

"I joined the church 'cause I believe in the Son of God. I know he is a forgiving God, and
will give me a place to rest after I am gone from the earth. Everybody ought to 'pare for the
promised land, where they can live always after they are done with this world."

After the interview, she said: "Honey, this is the most I have talked about slavery days in
twelve years; and I believe what I told you is right. Of course, lots has faded from my mind
about it now."

District #7 Adella S. Dixon, Macon, Georgia

MATILDA McKINNEY 100 Empire Avenue, Macon, Georgia [Date Stamp: JUL 28 1937]

Matilda McKinney was born in Texas but was brought to southwest Georgia, near Albany, at an
early age. Her mother, Amy Dean, had eight children, of which Aunt Matilda is the eldest. The
plantation on which they lived was owned by Mr. Milton Ball, and it varied little in size or
arrangement from the average one of that time. Here was found the usual two-story white house
finished with high columns and surrounded by trees.

Most of the Negro mothers did field work, so it was necessary for others to care for the children.
Mr. Ball handled this problem in the usual way. He established what would today be called a
day nursery. Each mother brought her offspring to the home of an elderly woman before leaving
for her day's work. Here, they were safely kept until their parents returned. The midday meal
for everyone was prepared at the Big House and the slaves were served from huge tubs of vegetables
and pots of meat. "Aunt" Julia was responsible for the children's noon meal.

When "Aunt" Matilda was old enough to do a little work, she was moved into the house where
she swept floors, waited on the table, and fanned flies while a meal was being served. The
adult females who lived in the house did most of the weaving and sewing. All the summer, garments
were made and put away for winter use. Two dresses of osnaburg were then given each person.

The field hands, always considered an inferior group by the house servants, worked from sunup
to sundown. When they returned from the fields they prepared supper for their families and
many times had to feed the children in the dark, for a curfew horn was blown and no lights
could be lighted after its warning note had sounded. There was very little visiting to or from
the group which dwelt here, as the curfew hour was early.

Saturday varied a little from the other week days. The field work was suspended in the afternoon
to allow the mothers time to wash their clothing. With sunset came the preparations for the
weekly frolic. A fiddler furnished music while the dancers danced numerous square dances until
a late hour.

Home remedies for illness were used much more extensively than any doctor's medicine. Teas,
compounded from sage, boneset, tansy, and mullen, usually sufficed for any minor sickness,
and serious illness was rare.

Food was distributed on Sunday morning. Two-and-a-half pounds of meat, a quantity of syrup,
and a peck of meal were given each adult for the week. A special ration for Sunday alone was
potatoes, buttermilk, and material for biscuits. Each family had its own garden from which
a supply of vegetables could always be obtained in season. The smaller children had additional
delicacies, for they early learned that the house where produce was kept had holes in the floor
which yielded peanuts, etc, when punched with a stick.

"Aunt" Matilda was unable to give any information regarding the war, but remembers that her
family remained at her former owner's plantation for some time after they were freed. She now
lives with her granddaughter who takes excellent care of her. Her long life is attributed to
her habit of going to bed early and otherwise caring for herself properly.

William, better known as "Shug," is a very black man of medium build. He wore a black slouch
hat pulled well down over tangled gray hair, a dingy blue shirt, soiled gray pants, and black
shoes. The smile faded from his face when he learned the nature of the visit. "I thought you
was de pension lady 'comin' to fetch me some money," he said, "and 'stid of dat you wants to
know 'bout slavery days. I'se disapp'inted.

"Mistess, it's been a long time since I was born on Marse Joe McWhorter's plantation down in
Greene County and I was jus' a little fellow when slavery was done over wid. Allen and Martha
McWhorter was my ma and pa. Pa, he was de carriage driver, and ma, she was a field hand. Dey
brought her here from Oingebug (Orangeburg), South Carolina, and sold her to Marse Joe when
she was jus' a little gal. Me and Annie, Ella, Jim, and Tom was all de chillun in our fambly,
and none of us warn't big enough to do no wuk to speak of 'fore de end of de big war. You see,
Mistess, it was lak dis; Marse Joe, he owned a old 'oman what didn't do nothin' 'cept stay
at de house and look atter us chillun, and dat was one of dem plantations whar dere was sho
a heap of slave chillun.

"'Bout our houses? Mistess, I'se gwine to tell you de trufe, dem houses slaves had to live
in, dey warn't much, but us didn't know no better den. Dey was jus' one-room log cabins wid
stick and dirt chimblies. De beds for slaves was home-made and was held together wid cords
wove evvy which away. If you didn't tighten dem cords up pretty offen your bed was apt to fall
down wid you. Suggin sacks was sewed together to make our mattress ticks and dem ticks was
filled wid straw. Now, don't tell me you ain't heared of suggin sacks a-fore! Dem was coarse
sacks sort of lak de guano sacks us uses now. Dey crowded jus' as many Niggers into each cabin
as could sleep in one room, and marriage never meant a thing in dem days when dey was 'rangin'
sleepin' quarters for slaves. Why, I knowed a man what had two wives livin' in de same cabin;
one of dem 'omans had all boys and t'other one didn't have nothin' but gals. It's nigh de same
way now, but dey don't live in de same house if a man's got two famblies.

"I 'members dat my pa's ma, Grandma Cindy, was a field hand, but by de time I was old 'nough
to take things in she was too old for dat sort of wuk and Marster let her do odd jobs 'round
de big house. De most I seed her doin' was settin' 'round smokin' her old corncob pipe. I was
named for Grandpa Billy, but I never seed him.

"Mistess, does you know what you'se axin'? Whar was slaves to git money whilst dey was still
slaves? Dere warn't but a few of 'em dat knowed what money even looked lak 'til atter dey was
made free.

"Now, you is talkin' 'bout somepin sho 'nough when you starts 'bout dem victuals. Marse Joe,
he give us plenty of sich as collards, turnips and greens, peas, 'taters, meat, and cornbread.
Lots of de cornbread was baked in pones on spiders, but ashcakes was a mighty go in dem days.
Marster raised lots of cane so as to have plenty of good syrup. My pa used to 'possum hunt
lots and he was 'lowed to keep a good 'possum hound to trail 'em wid. Rabbits and squirrels
was plentiful and dey made mighty good eatin'. You ain't never seed sich heaps of fish as slaves
used to fetch back atter a little time spent fishin' in de cricks and de river.

"De kitchen was sot off from de big house a little piece, but Old Marster had a roof built
over de walkway so fallin' weather wouldn't spile de victuals whilst dey was bein' toted from
de kitchen in de yard to de dinin' room in de big house. I don't reckon you ever seed as big
a fireplace as de one dey cooked on in dat old kitchen. It had plenty of room for enough pots,
skillets, spiders, and ovens to cook for all de folks on dat plantation. No, mam, slaves never
had no gardens of deir own; dey never had no time of deir own to wuk no garden, but Old Marster
fed 'em from his garden and dat was big enough to raise plenty for all.

"De one little cotton shirt dat was all chillun wore in summertime den warn't worth talkin'
'bout; dey called it a shirt but it looked more lak a long-tailed nightgown to me. For winter,
our clothes was made of wool cloth and dey was nice and warm. Mistess, slaves never knowed
what Sunday clothes was, 'cept dey did know dey had to be clean on Sunday. No matter how dirty
you went in de week-a-days, you had to put on clean clothes Sunday mornin'. Uncle John Craddock
made shoes for all de grown folks on our plantation, but chillun went barfoots and it never
seemed to make 'em sick; for a fact, I b'lieves dey was stouter den dan dey is now.

"Marse Joe McWhorter and his wife, Miss Emily Key, owned us, and dey was jus' as good to us
as dey could be. Mistess, you knows white folks had to make slaves what b'longed to 'em mind
and be-have deyselfs in dem days or else dere woulda been a heap of trouble. De big fine house
what Marse Joe and his fambly lived in sot in a cedar grove and Woodville was de town nighest
de place. Oh! Yes, mam, dey had a overseer all right, but I'se done forgot his name, and somehow
I can't git up de names of Marse Joe's chillun. I'se been sick so long my mem'ry ain't as good
as it used to be, and since I lost my old 'oman 'bout 2 months ago, I don't 'spect I ever kin
reckomember much no more. It seems lak I'se done told you my pa was Marse Joe's carriage driver.
He driv de fambly whar-some-ever dey wanted to go.

"I ain't got no idee how many acres was in dat great big old plantation, but I'se heared 'em
say Marse Joe had to keep from 30 to 40 slaves, not countin' chillun, to wuk dat part of it
dat was cleared land. Dey told me, atter I was old enough to take it in, dat de overseer sho
did drive dem slaves; dey had to be up and in de field 'fore sunup and he wuked 'em 'til slap,
black dark. When dey got back to de big house, 'fore dey et supper, de overseer got out his
big bull whip and beat de ones dat hadn't done to suit him durin' de day. He made 'em strip
off deir clothes down to de waist, and evvywhar dat old bull whip struck it split de skin.
Dat was awful, awful! Sometimes slaves dat had been beat and butchered up so bad by dat overseer
man would run away, and next day Aunt Suke would be sho to go down to de spring to wash so
she could leave some old clothes dar for 'em to git at night. I'se tellin' you, slaves sho
did fare common in dem days.

"My Aunt Mary b'longed to Marse John Craddock and when his wife died and left a little baby--dat
was little Miss Lucy--Aunt Mary was nussin' a new baby of her own, so Marse John made her let
his baby suck too. If Aunt Mary was feedin' her own baby and Miss Lucy started cryin' Marse
John would snatch her baby up by the legs and spank him, and tell Aunt Mary to go on and nuss
his baby fust. Aunt Mary couldn't answer him a word, but my ma said she offen seed Aunt Mary
cry 'til de tears met under her chin.

"I ain't never heared nothin' 'bout no jails in slavery time. What dey done den was 'most beat
de life out of de Niggers to make 'em be-have. Ma was brung to Bairdstown and sold on de block
to Marse Joe long 'fore I was borned, but I ain't never seed no slaves sold. Lordy, Mistess,
ain't nobody never told you it was agin de law to larn a Nigger to read and write in slavery
time? White folks would chop your hands off for dat quicker dan dey would for 'most anything
else. Dat's jus' a sayin', 'chop your hands off.' Why, Mistess, a Nigger widout no hands wouldn't
be able to wuk much, and his owner couldn't sell him for nigh as much as he could git for a
slave wid good hands. Dey jus' beat 'em up bad when dey cotched 'em studyin' readin' and writin',
but folks did tell 'bout some of de owners dat cut off one finger evvy time dey cotch a slave
tryin' to git larnin'. How-some-ever, dere was some Niggers dat wanted larnin' so bad dey would
slip out at night and meet in a deep gully whar dey would study by de light of light'ood torches;
but one thing sho, dey better not let no white folks find out 'bout it, and if dey was lucky
'nough to be able to keep it up 'til dey larned to read de Bible, dey kept it a close secret.

"Slaves warn't 'lowed to have no churches of dey own and dey had to go to church wid de white
folks. Dere warn't no room for chillun in de Baptist church at Bairdstown whar Marse Joe tuk
his grown-up slaves to meetin', so I never did git to go to none, but he used to take my ma
along, but she was baptized by a white preacher when she jined up wid dat church. De crick
was nigh de church and dat was whar dey done de baptizin'.

"None of our Niggers never knowed enough 'bout de North to run off up dar. Lak I done told
you, some of 'em did run off atter a bad beatin', but dey jus' went to de woods. Some of 'em
come right on back, but some didn't; Us never knowed whar dem what didn't come back went. Show
me a slavery-time Nigger dat ain't heared 'bout paterollers! Mistess, I 'clar to goodness,
paterollers was de devil's own hosses. If dey cotched a Nigger out and his Marster hadn't fixed
him up wid a pass, it was jus' too bad; dey most kilt him. You couldn't even go to de Lord's
house on Sunday 'less you had a ticket sayin': 'Dis Nigger is de propity of Marse Joe McWhorter.
Let him go.'

"Dere warn't never no let-up when it come to wuk. When slaves come in from de fields atter
sundown and tended de stock and et supper, de mens still had to shuck corn, mend hoss collars,
cut wood, and sich lak; de 'omans mended clothes, spun thread, wove cloth, and some of 'em
had to go up to de big house and nuss de white folks' babies. One night my ma had been nussin'
one of dem white babies, and atter it dozed off to sleep she went to lay it in its little bed.
De child's foot cotch itself in Marse Joe's galluses dat he had done hung on de foot of de
bed, and when he heared his baby cry Marse Joe woke up and grabbed up a stick of wood and beat
ma over de head 'til he 'most kilt her. Ma never did seem right atter dat and when she died
she still had a big old knot on her head.

"Dey said on some plantations slaves was let off from wuk when de dinner bell rung on Saddays,
but not on our'n; dere warn't never no let-up 'til sundown on Sadday nights atter dey had tended
to de stock and et supper. On Sundays dey was 'lowed to visit 'round a little atter dey had
'tended church, but dey still had to be keerful to have a pass wid 'em. Marse Joe let his slaves
have one day for holiday at Christmas and he give 'em plenty of extra good somepin t'eat and
drink on dat special day. New Year's Day was de hardest day of de whole year, for de overseer
jus' tried hisself to see how hard he could drive de Niggers dat day, and when de wuk was all
done de day ended off wid a big pot of cornfield peas and hog jowl to eat for luck. Dat was
s'posed to be a sign of plenty too.

"Cornshuckin's was a mighty go dem days, and folks from miles and miles around was axed. When
de wuk was done dey had a big time eatin', drinkin', wrestlin', dancin', and all sorts of frolickin'.
Even wid all dat liquor flowin' so free at cornshuckin's I never heared of nobody gittin' mad,
and Marse Joe never said a cross word at his cornshuckin's. He allus picked bright moonshiny
nights for dem big cotton pickin's, and dere warn't nothin' short 'bout de big eats dat was
waitin' for dem Niggers when de cotton was all picked out. De young folks danced and cut up
evvy chanct dey got and called deyselfs havin' a big time.

"Games? Well, 'bout de biggest things us played when I was a chap was baseball, softball, and
marbles. Us made our own marbles out of clay and baked 'em in de sun, and our baseballs and
softballs was made out of rags.

"Does I know anything 'bout ghosties? Yes, mam, I sees ha'nts and ghosties any time. Jus' t'other
night I seed a man widout no head, and de old witches 'most nigh rides me to death. One of
'em got holt of me night 'fore last and 'most choked me to death; she was in de form of a black
cat. Mistess, some folks say dat to see things lak dat is a sign your blood is out of order.
Now, me, I don't know what makes me see 'em.

"Marse Joe tuk mighty good keer of sick slaves. He allus called in a doctor for 'em, and kept
plenty of castor ile, turpentine, and de lak on hand to dose 'em wid. Miss Emily made teas
out of a heap of sorts of leaves, barks, and roots, sich as butterfly root, pine tops, mullein,
catnip and mint leaves, feverfew grass, red oak bark, slippery ellum bark, and black gum chips.
Most evvybody had to wear little sacks of papaw seeds or of assyfizzy (asafetida) 'round deir
necks to keep off diseases.

"Dey used to say dat a free Nigger from de North come through de South and seed how de white
folks was treatin' his race, den he went back up der and told folks 'bout it and axed 'em to
holp do somepin' 'bout it. Dat's what I heared tell was de way de big war got started dat ended
in settin' slaves free. My folks said dat when de Yankee sojers come through, Miss Emily was
cryin' and takin' on to beat de band. She had all her silver in her apron and didn't know whar
to hide it, so atter awhile she handed it to her cook and told her to hide it. De cook put
it in de woodpile. De Yankee mens broke in de smokehouse, brought out meat and lard, kilt chickens,
driv off cows and hosses, but dey never found Miss Emily's silver. It was a long time 'fore
our fambly left Marse Joe's place.

"Marse Joe never did tell his Niggers dey was free. One day one of dem Yankee sojers rid through
de fields whar dey was wukin' and he axed 'em if dey didn't know dey was as free as deir Marster.
Dat Yankee kept on talkin' and told em dey didn't have to stay on wid Marse Joe 'less dey wanted
to, end dey didn't have to do nothin' nobody told 'em to if dey didn't want to do it. He said
dey was deir own bosses and was to do as dey pleased from de time of de surrender.

"Schools was sot up for slaves not long atter dey was sot free, and a few of de old Marsters
give deir Niggers a little land, but not many of 'em done dat. Jus' as de Niggers was branchin'
out and startin' to live lak free folks, dem nightriders come 'long beatin', cuttin', and slashin'
'em up, but I 'spects some of dem Niggers needed evvy lick dey got.

"Now, Mistess, you knows all Niggers would ruther be free, and I ain't no diffunt from nobody
else 'bout dat. Yes, mam, I'se mighty glad Mr. Abraham Lincoln and Jeff Davis fit 'til dey
sot us free. Dat Jeff Davis ought to be 'shamed of hisself to want Niggers kept in bondage;
dey says dough, dat he was a mighty good man, and Miss Millie Rutherford said some fine things
'bout him in her book what Sarah read to me, but you can't 'spect us Niggers to b'lieve he
was so awful good.

"Me and Rosa Barrow had a pretty fair weddin' and a mighty fine supper. I don't ricollect what
she had on, but I'se tellin' you she looked pretty and sweet to me. Our two boys and three
gals is done growed up and I'se got three grandchillun now. Rosa, she died out 'bout 2 months
ago and I'se gwine to marry agin soon as I finds somebody to take keer of me.

"I was happier de day I jined de church at Sander's Chapel, dan I'se been since. It was de
joyfullest day of all my life, so far. Folks ought to git ready for a better world dan dis
to live in when dey is finished on dis earth, and I'se sho glad our Good Lord saw fit to set
us free from sin end slavery. If he hadn't done it, I sho would have been dead long ago. Yistidday
I picked a little cotton to git me some bread, and it laid me out. I can't wuk no more. I don't
know how de Blessed Lord means to provide for me but I feels sho He ain't gwine to let me perish."

[HW: Dist. 6: Ex-Slave #72]

Henrietta Carlisle Alberta Minor Re-search Workers

MOLLIE MALONE--EX-SLAVE Route B, Griffin, Georgia Interviewed

September 16, 1936 [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Mollie was born on a plantation owned by Mr Valentine Brook, near Locust Grove, Georgia. Mr.
Brook died before the War and his wife, "the widder Brock", ran the plantation.

Slaves not needed on the home plantation were "hired out" to other land owners for from $200.00
to $300.00 a year. This was done the first of each year by an auction from a "horse block".
When Mollie was seven months old her mother, Clacy Brock, was "hired out" and she was taken
care of by two old Negroes, too old to work, and who did nothing but care for the little "Niggers".
Mollie grew up with these children between the "big house" and the kitchen. When she was old
enough she was "put to mind" the smaller children and if they did'nt behave she pinched them,
but "when the 'ole Miss found it out, she'd sure 'whup me'", she said. These children were
fed cornbread and milk for breakfast and supper, and "pot licker" with cornbread for dinner.
They slept in a large room on quilts or pallets. Each night the larger children were given
so many "cuts" to spin, and were punished if all weren't finished. The thread was woven into
cloth on the loom and made into clothes by the slaves who did the sewing. There were no "store
bought" clothes, and Mollie was free before she ever owned a pair of shoes. Clothes had to
be furnished by the owner for the slaves he "hired out".

Mr. and Mrs. Brock had two daughters, Margaret and Mary Anne, who led very quiet secluded lives.
Mollie remembers visits of the traveling preacher, who conducted services in a nearby church
once a month. The slaves walked behind the White folks' carriages to and from the church, where
they were seated in the rear during the services. If there were baptisms, the Whites were baptized
first, then the Darkies.

On this plantation the Negroes were not allowed to engage in any frolics or attend social gatherings.
They only knew Christmas by the return of the hired out slaves, who came home for a week before
the next auction.

The young lady daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Brock wore "drag tail" dresses, and Mollie says the
little Negroes had to hold these long skirts off the ground whenever they were out doors, then
spread them as they went into the house so they could "strut."

The children were not allowed any education other than the "old Miss" reading them the Bible
on Sunday afternoons.

The older Negroes were not allowed to visit on other plantations often, but when they did go
they had to have passes from their masters or the "patarolers" would whip them--if they were
caught.

Hoar-hound and penny-royal were used for minor ailments, and "varnish" was put on cuts by the
"ole Miss". Mollie doesn't remember ever seeing a doctor, other than a mid-wife, on the plantation.
Home made remedies for "palpitation of the heart" was to wear tied around the neck a piece
of lead, pounded into the shape of the heart, and punched with nine holes, or to get some one
"not kin to you", to tie some salt in a small bag and wear it over your heart. Toothache was
cured by smoking a pipe of "life everlasting", commonly called "rabbit tobacco". Headaches
were stopped by beating the whites of an egg stiff, adding soda and putting on a cloth, then
tying around the head.

Mr. Brock died before the War, consequently not having any men to go from the plantation, Mollie
knew very little about it. She remembers Confederate soldiers "practicin" at Locust Grove,
the nearest town, and one time the Yankees came to the plantation and "took off" a horse Mrs.
Brock had hidden in the swamp, also all the silver found buried.

Mollie knew nothing of the freedom of the slaves until her mother came to get her. For two
years they "hired out" on a farm in Butts County, where they worked in the fields. Several
times in later years Mollie returned to the Brock plantation to see "the ole Miss" and the
young Misses. Mrs. Brock and her daughters, who had never married, died on the plantation where
they had always lived.

Mollie's family "knocked around awhile", and then came to Griffin where they have since made
their home. She became a familiar figure driving an ox-cart on the streets and doing odd jobs
for White families and leading a useful life in the community. Besides her own family, Mollie
has raised fifteen orphaned Negro children. She is approximately ninety years old, being "about
growd" when the War ended.

District Two EX-SLAVE INTERVIEW

AUNT CARRIE MASON Milledgeville, Georgia (Baldwin County)

Written By: Mrs. Estelle G. Burke Research Worker Federal Writers' Project Milledgeville, Georgia

Edited By: John N. Booth Asst. District Supervisor Federal Writers' Project Athens, Georgia

July 7, 1937 [Date Stamp: JUL 20 1937]

"Howdy, Miss, Howdy. Come on in. George is poly today. My grandchillun is doin' a little cleanin'
up fer me 'cause us thinks George ain't got long on this earth an' us don' want de place ter
be dirty an' all when he's gone."

The home of Aunt Carrie and Uncle George Mason, a two-room cabin surrounded by a dirty yard,
stands in a clearing. Old tin cans, bottles, dusty fruit jars, and piles of rat-tail cotton
from gutted mattresses littered the place. An immense sugarberry tree, beautifully proportioned,
casts inviting shade directly in front of the stoop. It is the only redeeming feature about
the premises. Aunt Carrie, feeble and gray haired, hobbled out in the yard with the aid of a stick.

"Have a seat, Miss. Dat cheer is all right. It won't fall down. Don't git yo' feet wet in dat
dirty water. My grandchillun is scourin' terday. Effen yer want to, us'll set under de tree.
Dey's a cool breeze dar all de time.

"You wants to fin' out my age an' all? Law Miss, I don' know how ole I is. George is nigh 'bout
90. I 'members my mammy said I wuz bawn a mont' or two 'fore freedom wuz 'clared. Yas'um I
rekymembers all 'bout de Yankees. How cum I 'members 'bout dem an' de war wuz over den? I cain't
tell yer dat, but I knows I 'members seein' 'em in de big road. It mought not uv been Mister
Sherman's mens but mammy said de Yankees wuz in de big road long after freedom wuz 'clared,
and dey wuz down here gettin' things straight. Dey wuz sho' in er mess atter de war! Evvythin'
wuz tore up an' de po' niggers didn't know which away to turn.

"My mammy's name wuz Catherine Bass an' my pappy wuz Ephriam Butts. Us b'longed ter Mars' Ben
Bass an' my mammy had de same name ez marster twell she ma'ied pappy. He b'longed ter somebody
else 'til marster bought him. Dey had ten chillun. No, mam, Mammy didn't have no doctor," Aunt
Carrie chuckled, "Didn't nobody hardly have a doctor in dem days. De white folks used yarbs
an' ole 'omans to he'p 'em at dat time. Mammy had er ole 'oman whut lived on de place evvy
time she had a little 'un. She had one evvy year too. She lost one. Dat chile run aroun' 'til
she wuz one year ole an' den died wid de disentery.

"Us had er right hard time in dem days. De beds us used den warn't like dese here nice beds
us has nowadays. Don't you laugh, Berry, I knows dese beds us got now is 'bout to fall down,"
Aunt Carrie admonished her grandson when he guffawed at her statement, "You chilluns run erlong
now an' git thoo' wid dat cleanin'." Aunt Carrie's spirits seemed dampened by Berry's rude
laugh and it was several minutes before she started talking again. "Dese young folks don't
know nuthin' 'bout hard times. Us wukked in de ole days frum before sunup 'til black night
an' us knowed whut wuk wuz. De beds us slep' on had roun' postes made outen saplins of hickory
or little pine trees. De bark wuz tuk off an' dey wuz rubbed slick an' shiny. De sprangs wuz
rope crossed frum one side uv de bed to de udder. De mattress wuz straw or cotton in big sacks
made outen osnaberg or big salt sacks pieced tergether. Mammy didn't have much soap an' she
uster scrub de flo' wid sand an' it wuz jes ez white. Yas mam, she made all de soap us used,
but it tuk a heap. We'uns cooked in de ashes an' on hot coals, but de vittals tasted a heap
better'n dey does nowadays. Mammy had to wuk in de fiel' an' den cum home an' cook fer marster
an' his fambly. I didn' know nuthin' 'bout it 'till atter freedom but I hyearn 'em tell 'bout it.

"Mammy an' pappy stayed on Marster's plantation 'til a year or mo' atter dey had dey freedom.
Marster paid 'em wages an' a house ter stay in. He didn't hav' many slaves, 'bout 20, I reckon.
My brothers wuz Berry, Dani'l, Ephriam, Tully, Bob, Lin, an' George. De yuthers I disremembers,
caze dey lef' home when dey wuz big enough to earn dey livin' an' I jes don't recollec'.

"Conjur' woman! Law miss, I aims ter git ter Hebem when I dies an' I show don't know how ter
conjur' nobody. No mam, I ain't never seed no ghost. I allus pray to de Lord dat He spar' me
dat trouble an' not let me see nary one. No good in folks plunderin' on dis earth atter dey
leave here de fus time. Go 'way, dog."

A spotted hound, lean and flop-eared was scratching industriously under Aunt Carrie's chair.
It was a still summer day and the flies droned ceaselessly. A well nearby creaked as the dripping
bucket was drawn to the top by a granddaughter who had come in from the field to get a cool
drink. Aunt Carrie watched the girl for a moment and then went back to her story.

"Effen my mammy or pappy ever runned away from Marster, I ain't heered tell uv it, but Mammy
said dat when slaves did run away, dey wuz cotched an' whupped by de overseer. Effen a man
or a 'oman kilt another one den dey wuz branded wid er hot i'on. Er big S wuz put on dey face
somewhars. S stood fer 'slave, 'an' evvybody knowed dey wuz er mudderer. Marster din't have
no overseer; he overseed hisself.

"Why is George so white? 'Cause his marster wuz er white genemun named Mister Jimmie Dunn.
His mammy wuz er cullud 'oman name' Frances Mason an' his marster wuz his paw. Yas mam, I see
you is s'prised, but dat happ'ned a lots in dem days. I hyeared tell of er white man what would
tell his sons ter 'go down ter dem nigger quarters an' git me mo' slaves.' Yas mam, when George
wuz borned ter his mamny, his pappy wuz er white man an' he made George his overseer ez soon
ez he wuz big e'nuf ter boss de yuther slaves. I wish he wuz able to tell yer 'bout it, but
since he had dat las' stroke he ain't been able ter talk none."

Aunt Carrie took an old clay pipe from her apron pocket and filled it with dry scraps of chewing
tobacco. After lighting it she puffed quietly and seemed to be meditating. Finally she took
it from her mouth and continued.

"I ain't had no eddication. I 'tended school part of one term but I wuz so skairt of my teacher
that I couldn't larn nuthin'. He wuz a ole white man. He had been teachin' fer years an' years,
but he had a cancer an' dey had done stopped him frum teachin' white chillun'. His name wuz
Mister Bill Greer. I wuz skairt 'cause he was a white man. No mam, no white man ain't never
harmed me, but I wuz skairt of him enyhow. One day he says to me, 'chile I ain't goin to hurt
yer none 'cause I'm white.' He wuz a mighty good ole man. He would have larned us mo' but he
died de nex' year. Mammy paid him ten cents a mont' a piece fer all us chillun. De boys would
wuk fer dey money but I wuz the onliest gal an' Mammy wouldn't let me go off de plantation
to make none. Whut I made dar I got, but I didn't make much 'til atter I ma'ied.

"Law honey, does yer want to know 'bout my ma'ige? Well, I wuz 15 years ole an' I had a preacher
to ma'y me. His name wuz Andrew Brown. In dem days us allus waited 'til de time of year when
us had a big meetin' or at Christmus time. Den effen one of us wanted ter git mai'ed, he would
perform de weddin' atter de meetin' or atter Chris'mus celebratin'. I had er bluish worsted
dress. I mai'ed in Jannywerry, right atter Chris'mus. At my mai'ge us had barbecue, brunswick
stew, an' cake. De whole yard wuz full uv folks.

"Mammy wuz a 'ligous 'oman an' de fust day of Chris'mus she allus fasted ha'f a day an' den
she would pray. Atter dat evvybody would hav' eggnog an' barbecue an' cake effen dey had de
money to buy it. Mammy said dat when dey wuz still slaves Marster allus gived 'em Chris'mus,
but atter dey had freedom den dey had ter buy dey own rations. Us would have banjer playin'
an' dance de pijen-wing and de shuffle-toe.

"No mam, George's pa didn' leave him no lan' when he died. Us went ter another farm an' rented
when de mai'ge wuz over. George's pa warn't dead, but he didn't offer to do nuthin' fer us.

"Yas'um, I'se had eight chilluns of my own. Us ain' never had no lan' us could call our'n.
Us jes moved from one farm ter another all our days. This here lan' us is on now 'longs ter
Mr. Cline. My son an' his chillun wuks it an' dey give us whut dey kin spare. De Red Cross
lady he'ps us an' us gits along somehow or nother."

Works Progress Administration Harry L. Hopkins, Administrator Ellen S. Woodward, Assistant
Administrator Henry S. Alsberg, Director of the Federal Writers' Project

PLANTATION LIFE

Interview with: SUSAN MATTHEWS, Age 84 Madison Street, Macon, Georgia

Written by: Ruth H. Sanford, Macon, Georgia

Edited by: Annie A. Rose, Macon, Georgia

Susan Matthews is an intelligent old negress, very tall and weighing close to two hundred pounds.
Her eyes were bright, her "store-bought" teeth flashed in a smile as she expressed her willingness
to tell us all she remembered "'bout ole times." In a tattered, faded print dress, a misshapen
hat and ragged shoes, she sat enjoying the sunshine on the porch while she sewed on an underskirt
she was making for herself from old sugar sacks. Her manner was cheerful; she seemed to get
genuine enjoyment from the interview and gave us a hearty invitation to come to see her again.

"I was jes a chile" she began, "when de white folks had slaves. My ma an her chillen wuz the
onliest slaves my marster and mistis had. My pa belonged to some mo white folks that lived
'bout five miles from us. My marster and mistis were poor folks. They lived in a white frame
house; it wuz jes a little house that had 'bout five rooms, I reckon. The house had a kitchen
in the backyard and the house my ma lived wuz in the back yard too, but I wuz raised in my
mistis' house. I slept in her room; slep' on the foot of her bed to keep her feets warm and
everwhere my mistis went I went to. My marster and mistis wuz sho good to us an we loved 'em.
My ma, she done the cooking and the washing fer the family and she could work in the fields
jes lak a man. She could pick her three hundred pounds of cotton or pull as much fodder as
any man. She wuz strong an she had a new baby mos' ev'y year. My marster and Mistis liked for
to have a lot of chillen 'cause that helped ter make 'em richer."

I didn't have much time fer playin' when I wus little cause I wuz allus busy waitin' on my
mistis er taking care of my little brothers and sisters. But I did have a doll to play with.
It wuz a rag doll an my mistis made it fer me. I wuz jes crazy 'bout that doll and I learned
how to sew making clothes fer it. I'd make clothes fer it an wash an iron 'em, and it wasn't
long 'fo I knowed how to sew real good, an I been sewing ever since.

My white folks wern't rich er tall but we always had plenty of somep'n to eat, and we had fire
wood to keep us warm in winter too. We had plenty of syrup and corn bread, and when dey killed
a hog we had fine sausage an chitlin's, an all sorts of good eating. My marster and the white
an collored boys would go hunting, and we had squirrels an rabbits an possums jes lots of time.
Yessum, we had plenty; we never did go hongry.

"Does I remember 'bout the Yankees coming?, Yes ma'am, I sho does. The white chillen an us
had been looking fer 'em and looking fer 'em. We wanted 'em to come. We knowed 'twould be fun
to see 'em. And sho 'nuf one day I was out in de front yard to see and I seed a whole passel
of men in blue coats coming down de road. I hollered "Here come de Yankees". I knowed 'twuz
dem an my mistis an my ma an ev'y body come out in the front yard to see 'em. The Yankees stopped
an the leading man with the straps on his shoulders talked to us an de men got water outen
de well. No'm, they didn't take nothing an they hurt nothing. After a while they jes went on
down the road; they sho looked hot an dusty an tired.

"After de war wuz over my pa, he comed up to our house an got my ma an all us chillen an carries
us down to his marster's place. I didn't want ter go cause I loved my mistis an she cried when
we left. My pa's ole marster let him have some land to work on shares. My pa wuz a hard worker
an we helped him an in a few years he bought a little piece of land an he owned it till he
died. 'Bout once er twice a year we'd all go back ter see our mistis. She wuz always glad to
see us an treated us fine.

"After de war a white woman started a school fer nigger chillen an my pa sent us. This white
lady wuz a ole maid an wuz mighty poor. She an her ma lived by dereselves, I reckon her pa
had done got kilt in de war. I don't know 'bout that but I knows they wuz mighty poor an my
pa paid her fer teaching us in things to eat from his farm. We didn't never have no money.
I loved to go to school; I had a blue back speller an I learned real quick but we didn't get
ter go all the time. When there wuz work ter do on the farm we had ter stop an do it.

"Times warn't no better after de war wuz over an dey warnt no wuss. We wuz po before de war
an we wuz po after de war. But we allus had somep'n to wear and plenty to eat an we never had
no kick coming.

"I never did get married. I'se a old maid nigger, an they tells me you don't see old maid niggers.
How come I ain't married I don't know. Seems like when I was young I seed somep'n wrong with
all de mens that would come around. Then atter while I wuz kinder ole an they didn't come around
no mo. Jes' last week a man come by here what used to co't me. He seed me settin here on the
porch an I says 'Come on in an set a while', an he did. So maybe, I ain't through co'tin, maybe
I'll get married yet." Here she laughed gleefully.

When asked which she preferred freedom or slavery she replied, "Well, being free wuz all right
while I wuz young but now I'm old an I wish I b'longed to somebody cause they would take keer
of me an now I ain't got nobody to take keer of me. The government gives me eight dollars a
month but that don't go fer enough. I has er hard time cause I can't git around an work like
I used to."

[HW: DIST. 6 Ex-slave #77]

Alberta Minor Re-search Worker

EMILY MAYS East Solomon Street, Griffin, Georgia Interviewed [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Emily was born in 1861 on the Billy Stevens plantation in Upson County. Her mother, Betsy Wych,
was born at Hawkinsville, Georgia, and sold to Mr. Billy Stevens. The father, Peter Wych, was
born in West Virginia. A free man, he was part Indian and when driving a team of oxen into
Virginia for lime, got into the slave territory, was overtaken by a "speculator" and brought
to Georgia where he was sold to the Wyches of Macon. He cooked for them at their Hotel, "The
Brown House" for a number of years, then was sold "on the block" to Mr. Stevens of Upson County.
Betsy was sold at this same auction. Betsy and Peter were married by "jumping the broomstick"
after Mr. Stevens bought them. They had sixteen children, of which Emily is the next to the
last. She was always a "puny", delicate child and her mother died when she was about seven
years old. She heard people tell her father that she "wasn't intented to be raised" 'cause
she was so little and her mother was "acomin' to get her soon." Hearing this kind of remarks
often had a depressing effect upon the child, and she "watched the clouds" all the time expecting
her mother and was "bathed in tears" most of the time.

After the war, Peter rented a "patch" from Mr. Kit Parker and the whole family worked in the
fields except Emily. She was not big enough so they let her work in the "big house" until Mrs.
Parker's death. She helped "'tend" the daughter's babies, washed and ironed table napkins and
waited on them "generally" for which she can't remember any "pay", but they fed and clothed her.

Her older sister learned to weave when she was a slave, and helped sew for the soldiers; so
after freedom she continued making cloth and sewing for the family while the others worked
in the fields. [Buttons were made from dried gourds.] They lived well, raising more on their
patch than they could possibly use and selling the surplus. For coffee they split and dried
sweet potatoes, ground and parched them.

The only education Emily received was at the "Sugar Hill" Sunday School. They were too busy
in the spring for social gatherings, but after the crops were harvested, they would have "corn
shuckings" where the Negroes gathered from neighboring farms and in three or four days time
would finish at one place then move on to the next farm. It was quite a social gathering and
the farm fed all the guests with the best they had.

The Prayer Meetings and "singings" were other pleasant diversions from the daily toil.

After Mrs. Parker's death Emily worked in her father's fields until she was married to Aaron
Mays, then she came to Griffin where she has lived ever since. She is 75 years old and has
cooked for "White folks" until she was just too old to "see good", so she now lives with her
daughter.

INTERVIEW WITH LIZA MENTION BEECH ISLAND, S.C.

Written and Edited By: Leila Harris and John N. Booth

Federal Writers' Project Augusta, Georgia

March 25, 1938

"Come right in. Have a seat. I'll be glad to tell you anything I can 'bout dem early days",
said Liza Mention. "Course I warn't born till de second year atter freedom, so I don't 'member
nothin' 'bout all dat fightin' durin' de war. I'se sho' glad I warn't born in slavery from
what I heared 'em tell 'bout dem patterollers ketchin' and beatin' up folks." Liza's house,
a 2-room hut with a narrow front porch, stands in a peaceful spot on the edge of the Wilson
plantation at Beech Island, South Carolina. A metal sign on the door which revealed that the
property is protected by a theft insurance service aroused wonder as to what Liza had that
could attract a burglar. The bedroom was in extreme disorder with clothing, shoes, bric-a-brac,
and just plain junk scattered about. The old Negress had been walking about the sunshiny yard
and apologized for the mess by saying that she lived alone and did as she pleased. "Folks says
I oughtn't to stay here by myself," she remarked, "but I laks to be independent. I cooked 25
years for de Wilson fambly and dey is gonna let me have dis house free 'til I die 'cause I
ain't able to do no work."

Liza's close-fitting hat pinned her ears to her head. She wore a dress that was soiled and
copiously patched and her worn out brogans were several sizes too large. Ill health probably
accounts for this untidiness for, as she expressed it, "when I gits up I hate to set down and
when I sets down, I hates to git up, my knees hurts me so," however, her face broke into a
toothless grin on the slightest provocation.

"I wuz born up on de Reese's place in McDuffie County near Thomson, Georgia. When I wuz chillun
us didn't know nothin' 'bout no wuk," she volunteered. "My ma wuz a invalis (invalid) so when
I wuz 6 years old she give me to her sister over here at Mr. Ed McElmurray's place to raise.
I ain't never knowed who my pa wuz. Us chaps played all de time wid white chillun jus' lak
dey had all been Niggers. Chillun den didn't have sense lak dey got now; us wuz satisfied jus'
to play all de time. I 'members on Sundays us used to take leaves and pin 'em together wid
thorns to make usselves dresses and hats to play in. I never did go to school none so I don't
know nothin' 'bout readin' and writin' and spellin'. I can't spell my own name, but I think
it begins wid a M. Hit's too late to study 'bout all dat now 'cause my old brain couldn't learn
nothin'. Hit's done lost most all of what little I did know.

"Back in dem times, folkses cooked on open fireplaces in winter time and in summer dey built
cook stands out in de yard to set de spiders on, so us could cook and eat outdoors. Dere warn't
no stoves nowhar. When us wuz hard up for sompin' green to bile 'fore de gyardens got goin'
good, us used to go out and git wild mustard, poke salad, or pepper grass. Us et 'em satisfactory
and dey never kilt us. I have et heaps of kinds of diffunt weeds and I still eats a mess of
poke salad once or twice a year 'cause it's good for you. Us cooked a naked hunk of fat meat
in a pot wid some corn dumplin's.

"De grown folks would eat de meat and de chilluns would sit around on de floor and eat de potlikker
and dumplin's out of tin pans. Us enjoyed dat stuff jus' lak it had been pound cake.

"Dances in dem days warn't dese here huggin' kind of dances lak dey has now. Dere warn't no
Big Apple nor no Little Apple neither. Us had a house wid a raised flatform (platform) at one
end whar de music-makers sot. Dey had a string band wid a fiddle, a trumpet, and a banjo, but
dere warn't no guitars lak dey has in dis day. One man called de sets and us danced de cardrille
(quadrille) de virginia reel, and de 16-hand cortillion. When us made syrup on de farm dere
would always be a candy pullin'. Dat homemade syrup made real good candy. Den us would have
a big time at corn shuckin's too.

"I don't believe in no conjuration. Ain't nobody never done nothin' to me but I have seed people
dat other folks said had been hurt. If somebody done somethin' to me I wouldn't know whar to
find a root-worker to take it off and anyways I wouldn't trust dem sort of folks 'cause if
dey can cyore you dey can kill you too.

"I'se a member of de Silver Bluff Baptist Church, and I been goin' to Sunday School dar nearly
ever since I can 'member. You know dey say dat's de oldest Nigger church in de country. At
fust a white man come from Savannah and de church wuz built for his family and dey slaves.
Later dere wuz so many colored members de white folks come out and built another house so de
niggers could have de old one. When dat ole church wuz tore down, de colored folks worshipped
for a long time in a goat house and den in a brush arbor.

"Some folks calls it de Dead River Church 'cause it used to be near Dead River and de baptisin'
wuz done dar for a long time. I wuz baptised dar myself and I loves de old spot of ground.
I has tried to be a good church member all my life but it's hard fer me to get a nickel or
a dime for preacher money now."

When asked if people in the old days got married by jumping over a broom she made a chuckling
sound and replied: "No, us had de preacher but us didn't have to buy no license and I can't
see no sense in buyin' a license nohow, 'cause when dey gits ready to quit, dey just quits."

Liza brought an old Bible from the other room in which she said she kept the history of the
old church. There were also pictures from some of her "white folks" who had moved to North
Carolina. "My husband has been daid for 40 years," she asserted, "and I hasn't a chile to my
name, nobody to move nothin' when I lays it down and nobody to pick nothin' up. I gets along
pretty well most of de time though, but I wishes I could work so I would feel more independent."
It is remarkable that one so old should possess so much energy and animation. She is tall and
spare, with wrinkled face, bright eyes, a kindly expression, and she wears her iron grey hair
wound in a knob in the manner of a past generation. Aunt Harriet was neatly dressed as she
had just returned from a trip to Cornelia to see some of her folks. She did not appear at all
tired from the trip, and seemed glad to discuss the old days.

"My father," said Aunt Harriet, "was a Cherokee Indian named Green Norris, and my mother was
a white woman named Betsy Richards. You see, I am mixed. My mother give me to Mr. George Naves
when I was three years old. He lived in de mountains of South Carolina, just across de river.
He didn't own his home. He was overseer for de Jarretts, old man Kennedy Jarrett. Honey, people
was just like dey is now, some good and some bad. Mr. Naves was a good man. Dese here Jarretts
was good to deir slaves but de ----s was mean to deirs. My whitefolks tried to send me to school
but de whitefolks wouldn't receive me in deir school on account of I was mixed, and dere warn't
no colored school a t'all, nowhere. Some of de white ladies taught deir slaves. Yes'm, some
of 'em did. Now, Miss Sallie Jarrett, dat was Mrs. Bob Jarrett's daughter, used to teach 'em some.

"Slaves had half a day off on Saturday. Dey had frolics at night, quiltings, dances, corn-shuckings,
and played de fiddle. Dey stayed in de quarters Sunday or went to church. Dey belonged to de
same church wid de whitefolks. I belonged to Old Liberty Baptist Church. De back seats was
whar de slaves set. Dey belonged to de same church just like de whitefolks, but I wasn't with
'em much." As a child, Aunt Harriet associated with white people, and played with white children,
but when she grew up, had to turn to negroes for companionship.

"If slaves stayed in deir places dey warn't never whipped or put in chains. When company come
I knowed to get out doors. I went on to my work. I was treated all right. I don't remember
getting but three whippings in my life. Old Mistis had brown sugar, a barrel of sugar setting
in de dinin' room. She'd go off and she'd come back and ask me 'bout de sugar. She'd get after
me 'bout it and I'd say I hadn't took it, and den when she turned my dress back and whipped
me I couldn't hardly set down. She whipped me twice 'bout the sugar and den she let me alone.
'Twasn't de sugar she whipped me 'bout, but she was trying to get me to tell de truth. Yes'm,
dat was de best lesson dat ever I learned, to tell de truth, like David.

"I had a large fambly. Lets see, I had ten chillun, two of 'em dead, and I believes 'bout 40
grand-chillun. I could count 'em. Last time I was counting de great-grandchillun dere was 37
but some have come in since den. Maggie has 11 chillun. Maggie's husband is a farmer and dey
lives near Eastonallee. Lizzie, her husband is dead and she lives wid a daughter in Chicago,
has 5 chillun. Den Media has two. Her husband, Hillary Campbell, works for de Govemint, in
Washington. Lieutenant has six; he farms. Robert has six; Robert is a regular old farmer and
Sunday School teacher. Davey has four, den Luther has seven, and dat leaves Jim, my baby boy.
He railroads and I lives wid him. Jim is 37. He ain't got no chillun. My husband, Judge Miller,
been dead 37 years. He's buried at Tugalo. Dis old lady been swinging on a limb a long time
and she going to swing off from here some time. I'm near about a hundred and I won't be here
long, but when I go, I wants to go in peace wid everybody.

"I don't know. I'd be 'feard to say dere ain't nothing in voo-doo. Some puts a dime in de shoe
to keep de voo-doo away, and some carries a buckeye in de pocket to keep off cramp and colic.
Dey say a bone dey finds in de jawbone of a hog will make chillun teethe easy. When de slaves
got sick, de whitefolks looked after 'em. De medicines for sickness was nearly all yerbs. Dey
give boneset for colds, made tea out of it, and acheing joints. Butterfly root and slippery
elm bark was to cool fever. Willow ashes is good for a corn, poke root for rheumatism, and
a syrup made of mullein, honey, and alum for colds. Dey use barks from dogwood, wild cherry,
and clack haws, for one thing and another. I'll tell you what's good for pizen-oak, powdered
alum and sweet cream. Beat it if it's lump alum, and put it in sweet cream, not milk, it has
to be cream. Dere's lots of other remedies and things, but I'm getting so sap-skulled and I'm
so old I can't remember. Yes'm, I've got mighty trifling 'bout my remembrance.

"Once some Indians camped on de river bottoms for three or four years, and we'd go down; me,
and Anne, and Genia, nearly every Saturday, to hear 'em preach. We couldn't understand it.
Dey didn't have no racket or nothing like colored folks. Dey would sing, and it sounded all
right. We couldn't understand it, but dey enjoyed it. Dey worked and had crops. Dey had ponies,
pretty ponies. Nobody never did bother 'em. Dey made baskets out of canes, de beautifulest
baskets, and dey colored 'em wid dyes, natchel dyes.

"Indian woman wore long dresses and beads. Deir hair was plaited and hanging down de back,
and deir babyes was tied on a blanket on de back. Mens wore just breeches and feathers in deir
hats. I wish you could have seen 'em a cooking. Dey would take corn dough, and den dey'd boil
birds, make sort of long, not round dumplings, and drop 'em in a pot of hot soup. We thought
dat was terrible, putting dat in de pot wid de birds. Dey had blow-guns and dey'd slip around,
and first thing dey'd blow, and down come a bird. Dey'd kill a squirrel and ketch fish wid
deir blow guns. Dem guns was made out of canes 'bout eight feet long, burned out at de j'ints
for de barrel. Dey put in a arrow what had thistles on one end to make it go through quick
and de other end sharp.

"Yes honey, I believes in hants. I was going 'long, at nine o'clock one night 'bout the Denham
fill and I heard a chain a rattling 'long de cross-ties. I couldn't see a thing and dat chain
just a rattling as plain as if it was on dis floor. Back, since the war, dere was a railroad
gang working 'long by dis fill, and de boss, Captain Wing, whipped a convict. It killed him,
and de boss throwed him in de fill. I couldn't see a thing, and dat chain was just rattling
right agai' de fill where dat convict had been buried. I believes de Lord took keer of me dat
night and I hope he keeps on doing so."

[HW: Dist. It is the old Jackson Road near Beulah Church. Until she was 7 years old she helped
about the house running errands for her "Missus", "tendin' babies", "sweeping the yard", and
"sich." At 7 she was put in the fields. The first day at work she was given certain rows to
hoe but she could not keep in the row. The Master came around twice a day to look at what they
had done and when it was not done right, he whipped them. "Seems like I got whipped all day
long," she said. One time when Mollie was about 13 years old, she was real sick, the master
and missus took her to the bathing house where there was "plenty of hot water." They put her
in a tub of hot water then took her out, wrapped her in blankets and sheets and put her in
cold water. They kept her there 4 or 5 days doing that until they broke her fever. Whenever
the negroes were sick, they always looked after them and had a doctor if necessary. At Christmas
they had a whole week holiday and everything they wanted to eat. The negroes lived a happy
carefree life unless they "broke the rules." If one lied or stole or did not work or did not
do his work right or stayed out over the time of their pass, they were whipped. The "pass"
was given them to go off on Saturday. It told whose "nigger" they were and when they were due
back, usually by 4 o'clock Sunday afternoon or Monday morning. "The patta-roll" (patrol) came
by to see your pass and if you were due back home, they would give you a whippin'!"

Mollie was 15 years old when the master came out in the fields and told them they were as free
as he was. Her family stayed with him. He gave them a horse or mule, their groceries and a
"patch to work", that they paid for in about three years time. Before the war whenever his
slaves reached 70 years, the master set them free and gave them a mule, cow and a "patch".
Mollie can remember her grandmother and grandfather getting theirs. When Mollie married (17
years old), she moved to her husband's farm. She had 9 children. She had to "spin the cloth"
for their clothes, and did any kind of work, even the men's work too. Out of herbs she made
syrup for worms for her children. With the barks of different trees she made the spring tonic
and if their "stomachs was wrong", she used red oak bark. When she was younger, she would "dream
a dream" and see it "jes' as clear" next morning and it always came true, but now since she's
aged her dreams are "gone away" by next morning. When she was a little girl, they made them
go to Sunday School and taught them out of a "blue back speller". After freedom, they were
sent to day school "some". The "little missus" used to teach her upstairs after they were supposed
to be in bed. She's been a member of the Methodist Church since she was 17 years old. Mollie's
husband was always a farmer and he always planted by the moon. Potatoes, turnips and things
that grow under the ground were planted in the dark of the moon while beans and peas and things
that develope on top the ground were planted in the light of the moon.

She said she couldn't remember many superstitions but she knew a rabbit's foot was tied round
your neck or waist for luck and a crowing hen was bad luck, so bad that they killed them and
"put 'em in the pot" whenever they found one. When you saw a cat washing its face, it was going
to rain sure.

Mollie is quite wrinkled, has thinning white hair, very bad teeth but fairly active physically
and her mind is moderately clear.

Elizabeth Watson

BOB MOBLEY, Ex-Slave, Aged about 90 Pulaski County, Georgia (1937) [Date Stamp: JUL 20 1937]

When recently interviewed, this aged colored man--the soul of humbleness and politeness--and
long a resident of Pulaski County, sketched his life as follows (his language reconstructed):

"I was the seventh child of the eleven children born to Robert and Violet Hammock, slaves of
Mr. Henry Mobley of Crawford County. My parents were also born in Crawford County.

My master was well-to-do: he owned a great deal of land and many Negroes.

Macon was our nearest trading town--and Mr. Mobley sold his cotton and did his trading there,
though he sent his children to school at Knoxville (Crawford County).

My mother was the family cook, and also superintended the cooking for many of the slaves.

We slaves had a good time, and none of us were abused or mistreated, though young Negroes were
sometimes whipped--when they deserved it. Grown Negro men, in those days, wore their hair long
and, as a punishment to them for misconduct (etc.), the master cut their hair off.

I was raised in my master's house--slept in his room when I was a small boy, just to be handy
to wait on him when he needed anything.

If a slave became sick, a doctor was promptly called to attend him. My mother was also a kind
of doctor and often rode all over the plantation to dose ailing Negroes with herb teas and
home medicines which she was an adept in compounding. In cases of [HW: minor] illness, she
could straighten up the sick in no time.

Before the war started, I took my young master to get married, and we were certainly dressed
up. You have never seen a Nigger and a white man as dressed up as we were on that occasion.

An aunt of mine was head weaver on our plantation, and she bossed the other women weavers and
spinners. Two or three seamstresses did all the sewing.

In winter time we slaves wore wool, which had been dyed before the cloth was cut. In summer
we wore light goods.

We raised nearly every thing that we ate, except sugar and coffee, and made all the shoes and
clothes worn on the place, except the white ladies' silks, fine shawls, and slippers, and the
men's broadcloths and dress boots.

My young master went to the war, but his father was too old to go. When we heard that the Yankees
were coming, old mister refugeed to Dooly County--where he bought a new farm, and took his
Negroes with him. But the new place was so poor that, right after the war closed, he moved
back to his old plantation. I stayed with Mr. Henry for a long time after freedom, then came
to Hawkinsville to work at the carpenter's trade. And I did pretty well here until I fell off
a house several years ago, since which time I haven't been much good--not able to do hardly
any work at all."

Now old, feeble, and physically incapacitated, "Uncle" Bob lives with a stepdaughter--a woman
of 72--who, herself, is failing fast. Both are supported mainly by Pulaski County and the Federal
Government.

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-Slave #79]

Folklore Mary A. Crawford Re-Search Worker

FANNY NIX--Ex-Slave Interviewed [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Fanny was born in slavery and was "a great big girl" when the slaves were freed but does not
know her exact age, however, she thinks that she was "at least twelve when the War broke out."
According to this method of estimating her age, Fanny is about eighty-seven.

The old woman's parents were John Arnold and Rosetta Green, who were married 'away befo de
wah' by steppin' over the broom' in the presence of "old Marse," and a lot of colored friends.

Fanny does not know where her parents were born, but thinks that they were born in Upson County
near Thomaston, Georgia, and knows that she and her two brothers and other sister were.

Fanny and her family were owned by Judge Jim Green. Judge Green had a hundred or so acres of
land Fanny 'reckon', and between twenty-five and seventy-five slaves.

"The Marster was just as good as he could be to all the slaves, and especially to the little
chillun." "The Judge did not 'whup' much--and used a peach tree limb and done it hisself. There
wuzn't no strop at Marse Green's big house."

Rosetta Green, the mother of Fanny, "cooked and washed for Judge Green for yeahs and yeahs."
Fanny "found her mammy a cookin' at the big house the fust thing she knowed."

As Fanny grew up, she was trained by "ole Miss" to be a house girl, and did "sech wuk" as churning,
minding the flies "offen de table when de white folks et, gwine backards and forads to de smoke-house
for my mammy."

She recalls that when she "minded the flies offen the table she allus got plenty of biscuits
and scraps o' fried chicken the white folks left on their plates." "But," Fanny added with
a satisfied smile, "Marse Green's darkies never wanted for sumpin t'eat, case he give 'em a
plenty, even molasses all dey wanted." Fanny and her mammy always ate in "de Missis kitchen."

"Yes," said Fanny, "I remembers when de Yankees come through, it tickled us chillun and skeered
us too! Dey wuz mo'n a hundred, Miss, riding mighty po' ole wore out hosses. All de men wanted
wuz sumpin' t'eat and some good hosses. De men poured into de smokehouse and de kitchen (here
Fanny had to laugh again) an how dem Yankee mens did cut and hack "Ole Marse's" best hams!
After dey et all dey could hol' dey saddled up "ole Marse's" fine hosses an' away dey rid!"

When asked why the white folks did not hide the horses out in the swamps or woods, Fanny replied,
"case, dey didn't have time. Dem Yankees pounced down like hawks after chickens!" "Ole Marse
jost did have time to 'scape to de woods hisself." The Judge was too old to go to the war.

John Arnold, Fanny's daddy, was owned by Mr. John Arnold on an adjoining plantation to Judge
Greene, and when he and Fanny's mother were married, John was allowed to visit Rosetta each
week-end. Of course he had to carry a pass from his "Marster."

John and Rosetta "never lived together year in and year out," according to Fanny's statement,
"till long after freedom."

Fanny relates that Judge Green's slaves all went to "meetin" every Sunday in the white folks
church. The darkies going in the after-noon and the white people going in the forenoon.

The white preacher ministered to both the white and colored people.

If the Negroes were sick and needed mo [HW: den] "old Marse" knowed what to give em, he "sont
the white folk's doctor." "You see, Miss," said old Fanny with pride, "I wuz owned by big white
folks."

She tells that Judge Green had two young sons (not old enough to fight) and three daughters,
'jest little shavers, so high', (here Fanny indicated from three, to four or five feet at intervals,
to indicate small children's height,) then added, "We allus said, 'Little Miss Peggy', 'Little
Miss Nancy', and 'Little Missz Jane', and 'Young Marse Jim' and 'Little Marster Bob'". "Did
you ever forget to speak to the children in that way?" the interviewer asked. "No, Miss, we
sho didn't, we knowed better dan to fergit!"

Fanny is very feeble in every way, voice is weak and her step most uncertain, but she is straight
of figure, and was ripping up smoking tobacco sacks with which her daughter is to make 'a purty
bed spread'. Fanny and her husband, another ex-slave, live with Fanny's daughter. The daughter
supports her mother.

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-Slave #80]

Mary A. Crawford Re-Search Worker

HENRY NIX--Ex-Slave 808 E. Slaton Ave. Griffin, Georgia Interviewed

September 24, 1936 [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

[TR: Numerous handwritten changes were made in this interview. Where a word appears in brackets
after a HW entry, it was replaced by that handwritten entry. All numbers were originally spelled
out.]

Henry Nix was born March 15, 1848 in Upson County, about 5 miles from Barnesville, Georgia.

[HW: His] [Henry's] parents were John Nix and Catherine Willis, who were not married, because
as Henry reports, John Nix was an overseer on the plantation of Mr. Jasper Willis, "and when
Marster found out what kind of man John Nix was he (Nix) had to skip out."

When Henry "was a good sized boy, his mother married a darky man", and 3 other children were
born, 2 boys and a girl. Henry loved his mother very much and [HW: says] relates that on her
death bed she told him who his father was, and [TR: "also told him" crossed out] how to live
so as not to get into trouble, and, [HW: due to her advice] that he has never been in jail
nor in any meanness of any kind [TR: "due to what she told him" crossed out].

Mr. Jasper Willis, [TR: "who was" crossed out] Henry's owner, lived on a large plantation of
about 300 three hundred acres in Upson County, [HW: and] [Mr. Willis] owned only about 50 or
60 slaves as well as Henry can remember. The old man considers Mr. Willis "the best marster
that a darky ever had," saying that he "sho" made his darkies work and mind, but he never beat
them or let the patter-role do it, though sometimes he did use a switch on 'em". Henry recalls
that he received "a sound whuppin onct, 'case he throwed a rock at one o' Marse Jasper's fine
cows and broke her laig!"

When asked if Mr. Willis had the slaves taught to read and write, Henry hooted at the idea,
saying emphatically, "No, Mam, 'Ole Marse' wuz sho hard about dat. He said 'Niggers' wuz made
by de good Lawd to work, and onct when my Uncle stole a book and wuz a trying to learn how
to read and write, Marse Jasper had the white doctor take off my Uncle's fo' finger right down
to de 'fust jint'. Marstar said he fixed dat darky as a sign fo de res uv 'em! No, Miss, we
wuzn't larned!"

Mr. Willis allowed his slaves from Saturday at noon till Monday morning as a holiday, and then
they always had a week for Christmas. All of the Negroes went to meeting on Sunday afternoon
in the white people's church and were served by the white minister.

Henry says that they had a "circuit doctor" on his Marster's place and the doctor came around
regularly at least every two weeks, "case Marster paid him to do so and [HW: he] 'xamined evah
darky big and little on dat plantation."

One time Henry recalls that he "had a turrible cowbunkle" on the back of his neck and 'marse'
had the doctor to cut it open. Henry knowed better den to holler and cut up, too, when it was done.

The old man remembers going to war with his young master and remaining with him for the two
years he was in service. They were in Richmond when the city surrendered to Grant and soon
after that the young master was killed in the fight at Tumlin Gap. Henry hardly knows how he
got back to "Ole Marster" but is thankful he did.

After freedom, [HW: al]most all of Mr. Willis' darkies stayed on with him but Henry "had to
act smart and run away." He went over into Alabama and managed "to keep [TR: "his" crossed
out] body and soul together somehow, for several years and then [TR: "he" crossed out] went
back to "Ole Marster."

Henry is well and rather active for his 87 or 88 years and likes to work. He has a job now
cleaning off the graves at the white cemetery but he and his wife depend mainly [HW: for support]
on their son [TR: "for support" crossed out], who lives just across the street from them.

[HW: Dist. [HW: He] [Lewis] does not know exactly when he was born, but says that [TR: "he
knows that" crossed out] he was maybe 17 years old at the end of the war in '65. This would
make him 88 now.

Mr. Crowder was the owner of a large number of slaves and among them was Lettie Crowder, [TR:
"(married an Ogletree) the" crossed out] housekeeper and head servant in the home of Mr. Fred
Crowder. Lettie was Lewis' mother.

Lewis remembers standing inside the picket fence with a lot of other little pick-a-ninnies
watching for Sherman's Army, and when the Yankees got close enough to be heard plainly, they
hid in the bushes or under the house.

The Yankees poured into the yard and into the house, making Lettie open the smoke-house and
get them Mr. Crowder's best whiskey and oftentimes they made her cook them a meal of ham and eggs.

Mr. Crowder, Lettie's master, was ill during the war, having a cancer on his left hand.

Lewis reports that Mr. Crowder was a very hard master but a good one saying, "That it wasn't
any use for the "patty-role" (the Patrol) to come to Marse Crowder's, 'cause he would not permit
him to "tech one of his darkies."

Mrs. Crowder, the "ole mistis", had died just before the war broke out and Mr. Crowder lived
alone with his house servants.

There were two young sons in the war. The oldest son, Col. Crowder, was in Virginia.

Lewis said that his Master whipped him only once and that was for stealing. One day when the
old master was taking a nap, Lewis "minding off the flies" and thinking his "marster" asleep
slipped over to the big table and snatched some candy. Just as he picked up a lump, (it was
"rock candy,") "Wham! Old [HW: Marster] [mastah] had me, and when he got through, well, Lewis,
didn't steal anymore candy nor nothin'." "Mastah nevah took no foolishness from his darkies."

Lewis remembers very clearly when Mr. Crowder gave his darkies their freedom. "Mastah sont
me and my mammy out to the cabin to tell all de darkies to come up to de "big house". When
they got there, there were so many that [HW: they] [some] were up on the porch, on the steps
and all over the yard."

"Mr. Crowder stood up on the porch and said, "You darkies are all free now. You don't belong
to me no more. Now pack up your things and go on off." My Lord! How them darkies did bawl!
And most of them did not leave ole mastah."

[RICHARD ORFORD, Age around 85]

The following version of slavery was told by Mr. Richard Orford of 54 Brown Avenue in South
Atlanta. Mr. Orford is large in statue and although 85 years of age he has a very active mind
as well as a good sense of humor.

Mr. Orford was born in Pike County, Georgia (near the present site of Griffin) in 1842. His
master's name was Jeff Orford. Mr. Orford describes him as follows: "Marster wus a rich man
an' he had 'bout 250 slaves--'course dat was'nt so many 'cause some of de folks 'round dere
had 400 and 500. He had plenty of land too--I don't know how many acres. He raised everything
he needed on de plantation an' never had to buy nothing. I 'members when de Yankees come through--ol'
marster had 'bout 200 barrels of whiskey hid in de smokehouse--dat wus de fust time I ever
got drunk."

"Besides hisself an' his wife ol' marster had two boys an' nine girls".

Continuing, Mr. Orford said: "My Ma did'nt have many chillun--jus' ten boys an' nine girls.
I went to work in marster's house when I wus five years old an' I stayed dere 'till I wus thirty-five.
De fust work I had to do wus to pick up chips, feed chickens, an' keep de yard clean. By de
time I wus eight years old I wus drivin' my missus in de carriage."

"All de rest of de slaves wus fiel' hands. Dey spent dere time plowing an' takin' care of de
plantation in general. Dere wus some who split rails an' others who took care of de stock an'
made de harness--de slaves did everything dat needed to be done on de plantation. Everybody
had to git up 'fore daybreak an' even 'fore it wus light enuff to see dey wus in de fiel' waitin'
to see how to run a furrow. 'Long 'bout nine o'clock breakfus' wus sent to de fiel' in a wagon
an' all of 'em stopped to eat. At twelve o'clock dey stopped again to eat dinner. After dat
dey worked 'till it wus to dark to see. Women in dem days could pick five-hundred pounds of
cotton a day wid a child in a sack on dere backs."

"When de weather wus too bad to work in de fiel' de hands cribed an' shucked corn. If dey had
any work of dere own to do dey had to do it at night".

According to Mr. Orford there was always sufficient food on the Orford plantation for the slaves.
All cooking was done by one cook at the cook house. In front of the cook house were a number
of long tables where the slaves ate their meals when they came in from the fields. Those children
who were too young to work in the fields were also fed at this house but instead of eating
from the tables as did the grown-ups they were fed from long troughs much the same as little
pigs. Each was given a spoon at meal time and then all of the food was dumped into the trough
at the same time.

The week day diet for the most part consisted of meats and vegetables--"sometimes we even got
chicken an' turkey"--says Mr. Orford. Coffee was made by parching meal or corn and then boiling
it in water. None of the slaves ever had to steal anything to eat on the Orford plantation.

All of the clothing worn on this plantation was made there. Some of the women who were too
old to work in the fields did the spinning and the weaving as well as the sewing of the garments.
Indigo was used to dye the cloth. The women wore callico dresses and the men wore ansenberg
pants and shirts. The children wore a one piece garment not unlike a slightly lengthened dress.
This was kept in place by a string tied around their waists. There were at least ten shoemakers
on the plantation and they were always kept bust [TR: busy?] making shoes although no slave
ever got but one pair of shoes a year. These shoes were made of very hard leather and were
called brogans.

In the rear of the master's house was located the slave's quarters. Each house was made of
logs and was of the double type so that two families could be accommodated. The holes and chinks
in the walls were daubed with mud to keep the weather out. At one end of the structure was
a large fireplace about six feet in width. The chimney was made of dirt.

As for furniture Mr. Orford says: "You could make your own furniture if you wanted to but ol'
marster would give you a rope bed an' two or three chairs an' dat wus all. De mattress wus
made out of a big bag or a tickin' stuffed wid straw--dat wus all de furniture in any of de
houses."

"In dem days folks did'nt git sick much like dey do now, but when dey did de fust thing did
fer 'em wus to give 'em blue mass. If dey had a cold den dey give 'em blue mass pills. When
dey wus very sick de marster sent fer de doctor."

"Our ol' marster wus'nt like some of de other marsters in de community--he never did do much
whuppin of his slaves. One time I hit a white man an' ol' marster said he was goin' to cut
my arm off an' dat wus de las' I heard of it. Some of de other slaves useter git whuppins fer
not workin' an' fer fightin'. My mother got a whuppin once fer not workin'. When dey got so
bad ol' marster did'nt bother 'bout whuppin' 'em--he jes' put 'em on de block an' en' sold
'em like he would a chicken or somethin'. Slaves also got whuppins when dey wus caught off
the plantation wid out a pass--de Paddie-Rollers whupped you den. I have knowed slaves to run
away an' hide in de woods--some of 'em even raised families dere."

"None of us wus allowed to learn to read or to write but we could go to church along wid de
white folks. When de preacher talked to de slaves he tol' 'em not to steal fum de marster an'
de missus 'cause dey would be stealing fum dere selves--he tol' 'em to ask fer what dey wanted
an' it would be givven to 'em."

When Sherman marched through Georgia a number of the slaves on the Orford plantation joined
his army. However, a large number remained on the plantation even after freedom was declared.
Mr. Orford was one of those who remained. While the Yankee soldiers were in the vicinity of
the Orford plantation Mr. Orford, the owner of the plantation, hid in the woods and had some
of the slaves bring his food, etc. to him.

Mr. Orford was thirty-five years of age when he left the plantation and at that time he married
a twelve year old girl. Since that time he has been the father of twenty-three children, some
of whom are dead and some of whom are still alive. A trip to the downtown section is a rare
event in the life of an 86 year old Negress, and, accompanied by her daughter, she was making
the most of this opportunity to see the world that lay so far from the door of the little cottage
where she lives on Strong Street. When asked if she liked to talk of her childhood days before
the end of the Civil War, she eagerly replied: "'Deed, I does." She was evidently delighted
to have found someone who actually wanted to listen to her, and proudly continued:

"Dem days sho' wuz sompin' to talk 'bout. I don't never git tired of talkin' 'bout 'em. Paw,
he wuz Olmstead Lumpkin, and Ma wuz Liza Lumpkin, and us b'longed to Jedge Joe Henry Lumpkin.
Us lived at de Lumpkin home place on Prince Avenue. I wuz born de same week as Miss Callie
Cobb, and whilst I don't know z'ackly what day I wuz born, I kin be purty sho' 'bout how many
years ole I is by axin' how ole Miss Callie is. Fust I 'members much 'bout is totin' de key
basket 'round 'hind Ole Miss when she give out de vittals. I never done a Gawd's speck of work
but dat. I jes' follered 'long atter Ole Miss wid 'er key basket.

"Did dey pay us any money? Lawsy, Lady! What for? Us didn't need no money. Ole Marster and
Ole Miss all time give us plenty good sompin' teat, and clo'es, and dey let us sleep in a good
cabin, but us did have money now and den. A heap of times us had nickles and dimes. Dey had
lots of comp'ny at Ole Marster's, and us allus act mighty spry waitin' on 'em, so dey would
'member us when dey lef'. Effen it wuz money dey gimme, I jes' couldn't wait to run to de sto'
and spend it for candy."

"What else did you buy with the money?", she was asked.

"Nuffin' else," was the quick reply. "All a piece of money meant to me dem days, wuz candy,
and den mo' candy. I never did git much candy as I wanted when I wuz chillun."

Here her story took a rambling turn.

"You see I didn't have to save up for nuffin'. Ole Marster and Ole Miss, dey took keer of us.
Dey sho' wuz good white folkses, but den dey had to be good white folkses, kaze Ole Marster,
he wuz Jedge Lumpkin, and de Jedge wuz bound to make evvybody do right, and he gwine do right
his own self 'fore he try to make udder folkses behave deyselvs. Ain't nobody, nowhar, as good
to dey Negroes as my white folkses wuz."

"Who taught you to say 'Negroes' so distinctly?" she was asked.

"Ole Marster," she promptly answered, "He 'splained dat us wuz not to be 'shamed of our race.
He said us warn't no 'niggers'; he said us wuz 'Negroes', and he 'spected his Negroes to be
de best Negroes in de whole land.

"Old Marster had a big fine gyarden. His Negroes wukked it good, and us wuz sho' proud of it.
Us lived close in town, and all de Negroes on de place wuz yard and house servants. Us didn't
have no gyardens 'round our cabins, kaze all of us et at de big house kitchen. Ole Miss had
flowers evvywhar 'round de big house, and she wuz all time givin' us some to plant 'round de
cabins.

"All de cookin' wuz done at de big house kitchen, and hit wuz a sho' 'nough big kitchen. Us
had two boss cooks, and lots of helpers, and us sho' had plenny of good sompin' teat. Dat's
de Gawd's trufe, and I means it. Heap of folkses been tryin' to git me to say us didn't have
'nough teat and dat us never had nuffin' fittin' teat. But ole as I is, I cyan' start tellin'
no lies now. I gotter die fo' long, and I sho' wants to be clean in de mouf and no stains or
lies on my lips when I dies. Our sompin' teat wuz a heap better'n what us got now. Us had plenny
of evvything right dar in de yard. Chickens, ducks, geese, guineas, tukkeys, and de smoke'ouse
full of good meat. Den de mens, dey wuz all time goin' huntin', and fetchin' in wild tukkeys,
an poddiges, and heaps and lots of 'possums and rabbits. Us had many fishes as us wanted. De
big fine shads, and perch, and trouts; dem wuz de fishes de Jedge liked mos'. Catfishes won't
counted fittin' to set on de Jedges table, but us Negroes wuz 'lowed to eat all of 'em us wanted.
Catfishes mus' be mighty skace now kaze I don't know when ever I is seed a good ole river catfish
a-flappin' his tail. Dey flaps dey tails atter you done kilt 'em, and cleaned 'em, and drap
'em in de hot grease to fry. Sometimes dey nigh knock de lid offen de fryin' pan.

"Ole Marster buyed Bill Finch down de country somewhar', and dey called him 'William' at de
big house. He wuz de tailor, and he made clo'es for de young marsters. William wuz right smart,
and one of his jobs wuz to lock up all de vittals atter us done et much as us wanted. All of
us had plenny, but dey won't nuffin' wasted 'round Ole Marster's place.

"Ole Miss wuz young and pretty dem days, and Ole Marster won't no old man den, but us had to
call 'em 'Ole Miss,' and 'Ole Marster,' kaze dey chilluns wuz called 'Young Marster' and 'Young
Mistess' f'um de very day dey wuz born."

When asked to describe the work assigned to little Negroes, she quickly answered: "Chilluns
didn't do nuffin'. Grownup Negroes done all de wuk. All chilluns done wuz to frolic and play.
I wuz jes' 'lowed ter tote de key basket kaze I wuz all time hangin' 'round de big house, and
wanted so bad to stay close to my ma in de kitchen and to be nigh Ole Miss.

"What sort of clo'es did I wear in dem days? Why Lady, I had good clo'es. Atter my little mistesses
wore dey clo'es a little, Ole Miss give 'em to me. Ma allus made me wear clean, fresh clo'es,
and go dressed up good all de time so I'd be fittin' to carry de key basket for Ole Miss. Some
of de udder slave chilluns had homemade shoes, but I allus had good sto'-bought shoes what
my young mistess done outgrowed, or what some of de comp'ny gimme. Comp'ny what had chilluns
'bout my size, gimme heaps of clo'es and shoes, and some times dey didn't look like dey'd been
wore none hardly.

"Ole Marster sho' had lots of Negroes 'round his place. Deir wuz Aunt Charlotte, and Aunt Julie,
and de two cooks, and Adeline, and Mary, and Edie, and Jimmy. De mens wuz Charlie, and Floyd,
and William, and Daniel. I disremembers de res' of 'em.

"Ole Marster never whipped none of his Negroes, not dat I ever heared of. He tole 'em what
he wanted done, and give 'em plenny of time to do it. Dey wuz allus skeert effen dey didn't
be smart and do right, dey might git sold to some marster dat would beat 'em, and be mean to
'em. Us knowed dey won't many marsters as good to dey slaves as Ole Marster wuz to us. Us would
of most kilt ourself wukkin', fo' us would of give him a reason to wanna git rid of us. No
Ma'am, Ole Marster ain't never sold no slave, not whilst I kin 'member. Us wuz allus skeert
dat effen a Negro git lazy and triflin' he might git sold.

"No Negro never runned away f'um our place. Us didn't have nuffin' to run f'um, and nowhar
to run to. Us heared of patterollers but us won't 'fraid none kaze us knowed won't no patteroller
gwine tech none of Jedge Lumpkin's Negroes.

"Us had our own Negro church. I b'lieves dey calls it Foundry Street whar de ole church wuz.
Us had meetin' evvy Sunday. Sometimes white preachers, and sometimes Negro preachers done de
preachin'. Us didn't have no orgin or pianny in church den. De preacher hysted de hymns. No
Ma'am, I cyan' 'member no songs us sung den dat wuz no diffunt f'um de songs now-a-days, 'ceppen'
dey got orgin music wid de singin' now. Us had c'lections evvy Sunday in church den, same as
now. Ole Marster give us a little change for c'lection on Sunday mawnin' kaze us didn't have
no money of our own, and he knowed how big it made us feel ter drap money in de c'lection plate.
Us Meferdis had our baptizin's right dar in de church, same as us does now. And 'vival meetin's.
Dey jes' broke out any time. Out on de plantations dey jes' had 'vival meetin's in layin'-by
times, but here in town us had 'em all durin' de year. Ole Marster used ter say: 'Mo' 'vivals,
better Negroes.'

"Evvybody oughter be good and jine de church, but dey sho' oughtn't to jine effen dey still
gwine to act like Satan.

"Us chillun would git up long 'fore day Chris'mas mawnin'. Us used ter hang our stockin's over
de fire place, but when Chris'mas mawnin' come dey wuz so full, hit would of busted 'em to
hang 'em up on a nail, so dey wuz allus layin' on Ma's cheer when us waked up. Us chillun won't
'lowed to go 'round de big house early on Chris'mas mawnin' kaze us mought 'sturb our white
folkses' rest, and den dey done already seed dat us got plenny Santa Claus in our own cabins.
Us didn't know nuffin' 'bout New Years Day when I wuz chillun.

"When any of his Negroes died Ole Marster wuz mighty extra good. He give plenny of time for
a fun'ral sermon in de afternoon. Most of da fun'rals wuz in de yard under de trees by de cabins.
Atter de sermon, us would go 'crost de hill to de Negro buyin' ground, not far f'um whar our
white folkses wuz buried.

"Us never bothered none 'bout Booker Washin'ton, or Mister Lincum, or none of dem folkses 'way
off dar kaze us had our raisin' f'um de Lumpkins and dey's de bes' folkses dey is anywhar'.
Won't no Mister Lincum or no Booker Washin'ton gwine to help us like Ole Marster and us knowed
dat good and plenny.

"I cyan' 'member much 'bout playin' no special games 'ceppin' 'Ole Hundud.' Us would choose
one, and dat one would hide his face agin' a tree whilst he counted to a hundud. Den he would
hunt for all de others. Dey done been hidin' whilst he wuz countin'. Us larned to count a-playin'
'Ole Hundud'.

"No Ma'am, us never went to no school 'til atter de War. Den I went some at night. I wukked
in de day time atter freedom come. My eyes bothered me so I didn't go to school much.

"Yes Ma'am, dey took mighty good care of us effen us got sick. Ole Marster would call in Doctor
Moore or Doctor Carleton and have us looked atter. De 'omans had extra good care when dey chilluns
comed. 'Til freedom come, I wuz too little to know much 'bout dat myself, but Ma allus said
dat Negro 'omans and babies wuz looked atter better 'fore freedom come dan dey ever wuz anymo'.

"Atter de War wuz over, a big passel of Yankee mens come to our big house and stayed. Dey et
and slept dar, and dey b'haved powerful nice and perlite to all our white folkses, and dey
ain't bother Jedge Lumpkin's servants none. But den evvybody allus b'haved 'round Jedge Lumpkin's
place. Ain't nobody gwine to be brash 'nough to do no devilment 'round a Jedges place.

"Hit was long atter de War 'fo' I married. I cyan' 'member nuffin' 'bout my weddin' dress.
'Pears like to me I been married mos' all of my life. Us jes' went to de preacher man's house
and got married. Us had eight chillun, but dey is all dead now 'ceppin' two; one son wukkin'
way off f'um here, and my daughter in Athens.

"I knows I wuz fixed a heap better fo' de War, than I is now, but I sho' don't want no slav'ry
to come back. It would be fine effen evvy Negro had a marster like Jedge Lumpkin, but dey won't
all dat sort."

Anna leaned heavily on her cane as she answered the knock on the front door when we visited
her home. "Come in," she invited, and led the way through her scrupulously tidy house to the
back porch.

"De sun feels good," she said, "and it sorter helps my rheumatiz. My rheumatiz been awful bad
lately. I loves to set here whar I kin see dat my ole hen and little chickens don't git in
no mischief." A small bucket containing chicken food was conveniently at hand, so she could
scatter it on the ground to call her chickens away from depredations on the flowers. A little
mouse made frequent excursions into the bucket and helped himself to the cracked grains in
the chicken food. "Don't mind him," she admonished, "he jes' plays 'round my cheer all day,
and don't bother nuffin'."

"You didn't tell anything about your brothers and sisters when you talked to me before," her
visitor remarked.

"Well, I jes' couldn't 'member all at onct, but atter I got back home and rested up, I sot
here and talked ter myself 'bout old times. My brudder Charles wuz de coachman what drove Ole
Marster's carriage, and anudder brudder wuz Willie, and one wuz Floyd. My sisters wuz Jane
and Harriet. 'Pears like to me dey wuz more of 'em, but some how I jes' cyan' 'member no more
'bout 'em. My husband wuz Grant Parkes and he tuk care of de gyardens and yards for de Lumpkins.

"I had one chile named Caline, for Ole Miss. She died a baby. My daughter Fannie done died
long time ago, and my daughter Liza, she wuks for a granddaughter of Ole Miss. I means, Liza
wuks for Mister Eddie Lumpkin's daughter. I done plum clear forgot who Mister Eddie's daughter
married.

"I jes' cyan' recollec' whar my boy, Floyd, stays. You oughter know, Lady, hits de town whar
de President lives. Yes Ma'am, Washin'ton, dats de place whar my Floyd is. I got one more son,
but I done plum forgot his name, and whar he wuz las' time I heared f'um him. I don't know
if he's livin' or dead. It sho' is bad to git so old you cyan' tell de names of yo' chilluns
straight off widout havin' to stop and study, and den you cyan' allus 'member.

"I done been studyin' 'bout da war times, and I 'members dat Ole Marster wuz mighty troubled
'bout his Negroes when he heared a big crowd of Yankee sojers wuz comin' to Athens. Folkses
done been sayin' de Yankees would pick out de bes' Negroes and take 'em 'way wid 'em, and dere
wuz a heap of talk 'bout de scandlous way dem Yankee sojers been treatin' Negro 'omans and
gals. 'Fore dey got here, Ole Marster sent mos' of his bes' Negroes to Augusta to git 'em out
of danger f'um de Fed'rals. Howsome-ever de Negroes dat he kept wid' 'im won't bothered none,
kaze dem Fed'rals 'spected de Jedge and didn't do no harm 'round his place.

"In Augusta, I stayed on Greene Street wid a white lady named Mrs. Broome. No Ma'am, I nebber
done no wuk. I jes' played and frolicked, and had a good time wid Mrs. Broome's babies. She
sho' wuz good to me. Ma, she wukked for a Negro 'oman named Mrs. Kemp, and lived in de house
wid her.

"Ole Marster sont for us atter de war wuz over, and us wuz mighty proud to git back home. Times
had done changed when us got back. Mos' of Ole Marster's money wuz gone, and he couldn't take
keer of so many Negroes, so Ma moved over near de gun fact'ry and started takin' in washin'.

"De wust bother Negroes had dem days wuz findin' a place to live. Houses had to be built for
'em, and dey won't no money to build 'em wid.

"One night, jes' atter I got in bed, some mens come walkin' right in Ma's house widout knockin'.
I jerked de kivver up over my head quick, and tried to hide. One of de mens axed Ma who she
wuz. Ma knowed his voice, so she said: 'You knows me Mister Blank,' (she called him by his
sho' 'nuff name) 'I'm Liza Lumpkin, and you knows I used to b'long to Jedge Lumpkin.' De udders
jes' laughed at him and said: 'Boy, she knows you, so you better not say nuffin' else.' Den
anudder man axed Ma how she wuz makin' a livin'. Ma knowed his voice too, and she called him
by name and tole him us wuz takin' in washin' and livin' all right. Dey laughed at him too,
and den anudder one axed her sompin' and she called his name when she answered him too. Den
de leader say, 'Boys, us better git out of here. These here hoods and robes ain't doin' a bit
of good here. She knows ev'ry one of us and can tell our names.' Den dey went out laughin'
fit to kill, and dat wuz de onliest time de Ku Kluxers ever wuz at our house, leastways us
s'posed dey wuz Ku Kluxers.

"I don't 'member much 'bout no wuk atter freedom 'ceppin' de wash tub. Maw larned me how to
wash and iron. She said: 'Some day I'll be gone f'um dis world, and you won't know nuffin'
'bout takin' keer of yo'self, lessen you larn right now.' I wuz mighty proud when I could do
up a weeks washin' and take it back to my white folkses and git sho' 'nuff money for my wuk.
I felt like I wuz a grown 'oman den. It wuz in dis same yard dat Ma larned me to wash. At fust
Ma rented dis place. There wuz another house here den. Us saved our washin' money and bought
de place, and dis is de last of three houses on dis spot. Evvy cent spent on dis place wuz
made by takin' in washin' and de most of it wuz made washin' for Mister Eddie Lumpkin's family.

"Heaps of udder Negroes wuz smart like Ma, and dey got along all right. Dese days de young
folkses don't try so hard. Things comes lots easier for 'em, and dey got lots better chances
dan us had, but dey don't pay no 'tention to nuffin' but spendin' all dey got, evvy day. Boys
is wuss'en gals. Long time ago I done give all I got to my daughter. She takes keer of me.
Effen de roof leaks, she has it looked atter. She wuks and meks our livin'. I didn't want nobody
to show up here atter I die and take nuffin' away f'um her.

"I ain' never had no hard times. I allus been treated good and had a good livin'. Course de
rheumatiz done got me right bad, but I is still able to git about and tend to de house while
my gal is off at wuk. I wanted to wash today, but I couldn't find no soap. My gal done hid
de soap, kaze she say I'se too old to do my own washin' and she wanter wash my clo'es herse'f."

In parting, the old woman said rather apologetically, "I couldn't tell you 'bout no sho' 'nuff
hard times. Atter de War I wukked hard, but I ain't never had no hard times".

[HW: Dist. 5 Ex-Slave #83]

"A TALK WITH G.W. PATTILLO--EX-SLAVE" [HW: age 78]

Submitted by Minnie B. Ross

Typed by: J.C. Russell 1-22-37 [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

[TR: In Informants List, G.W. Pattillio]

In the shelter provided by the Department of Public Welfare, lives an old Negro, G.W. Pattillo,
who was born in Spaulding County, Griffin, Ga., in the year 1852. His parents, Harriett and
Jake Pattillo, had twelve children, of whom he was the second youngest. Their master was Mr.
T.J. Ingram. However, they kept the name of their old master, Mr. Pattillo.

Master Ingram, as he was affectionately called by his slaves, was considered a "middle class
man," who owned 100 acres of land, with one family of slaves, and was more of a truck farmer
than a plantation owner. He raised enough cotton to supply the needs of his family and his
slaves and enough cattle to furnish food, but his main crops were corn, wheat, potatoes and truck.

With a few slaves and a small farm, Master Ingram was very lenient and kind to his slaves and
usually worked with them in the fields. "We had no special time to begin or end the work for
the day. If he got tired he would say, 'Alright, boys, let's stop and rest,' and sometimes
we didn't start working until late in the day."

Pattillo's mother was cook and general house servant, so well thought of by the Ingram family
that she managed the house as she saw fit and planned the meals likewise. Young Pattillo was
considered a pet by everyone and hung around the mistress, since she did not have any children
of her own. His job was to hand her the scissors and thread her needles. "I was her special
pet," said Pattillo, "and my youngest brother was the master's special pet." Mr. and Mrs. Ingram
never punished the children, nor allowed anyone but their parents to do so. If the boy became
unruly, Mrs. Ingram would call his mother and say, "Harriett, I think G.W. needs to be taken
down a button hole lower."

The master's house, called the "Big House," was a two-story frame structure consisting of 10
rooms. Although not a mansion, it was fairly comfortable. The home provided for Pattillo's
family was a three-room frame house furnished comfortably with good home-made furniture.

Pattillo declared that he had never seen anyone on the Ingram Plantation punished by the owner,
who never allowed the "paterrollers" to punish them either.

Master Ingram placed signs at different points on his plantation which read thus: "Paterrollers,
Fishing and Hunting Prohibited on this Plantation." It soon became known by all that the Ingram
slaves were not given passes by their owner to go any place, consequently they were known as
"Old Ingram's Free Niggers."

Master Ingram could not write, but would tell his slaves to inform anyone who wished to know,
that they belonged to J.D. Ingram. "Once," said Pattillo, "my brother Willis, who was known
for his gambling and drinking, left our plantation and no one knew where he had gone. As we
sat around a big open fire cracking walnuts, Willis came up, jumped off his horse and fell
to the ground. Directly behind him rode a 'paterroller.' The master jumped up and commanded
him to turn around and leave his premises. The 'Paterroller' ignored his warning and advanced
still further. The master then took his rifle and shot him. He fell to the ground dead and
Master Ingram said to his wife, 'Well, Lucy, I guess the next time I speak to that scoundrel
he will take heed.' The master then saddled his horse and rode into town. Very soon a wagon
came back and moved the body."

The cotton raised was woven into cloth from which their clothing was made. "We had plenty of
good clothing and food," Pattillo continued. "The smokehouse was never locked and we had free
access to the whole house. We never knew the meaning of a key."

Master Ingram was very strict about religion and attending Church. It was customary for everyone
to attend the 9 o'clock prayer services at his home every night. The Bible was read by the
mistress, after which the master would conduct prayer. Children as well as grownups were expected
to attend. On Sundays, everybody attended church. Separate Churches were provided for the Negroes,
with White and Colored preachers conducting the services. White Deacons were also the Deacons
of the Colored Churches and a colored man was never appointed deacon of a Church. Only white
ministers were priviliged to give the sacrament and do the baptizing. Their sermons were of
a strictly religious nature. When a preacher was unable to read, someone was appointed to read
the text. The preacher would then build his sermon from it. Of course, during the conference
period, colored as well as white ministers were privileged to make the appointments. The Negroes
never took up collections but placed their money in an envelope and passed it in. It was their
own money, earned with the master's consent, by selling apples, eggs, chickens, etc.

Concerning marriages, Pattillo believes in marriages as they were in the olden days. "Ef two
people felt they wuz made for each other, they wuz united within themselves when they done
git the master's 'greement, then live together as man and wife, an' that was all. Now, you
got to buy a license and pay the preacher."

Loss of life among slaves was a calamity and if a doctor earned a reputation for losing his
patients, he might as well seek a new community. Often his downfall would begin by some such
comment as, "Dr. Brown lost old man Ingram's nigger John. He's no good and I don't intend to
use him." The value of slaves varied, from $500 to $10,000, depending on his or her special
qualifications. Tradesmen such as blacksmiths, shoe makers, carpenters, etc., were seldom sold
under $10,000. Rather than sell a tradesman slave, owners kept them in order to make money
by hiring them out to other owners for a set sum per season. However, before the deal was closed
the lessee would have to sign a contract which assured the slave's owner that the slave would
receive the best of treatment while in possession.

Pattillo remembers hearing his parents say the North and South had disagreed and Abraham Lincoln
was going to free the slaves. Although he never saw a battle fought, there were days when he
sat and watched the long line of soldiers passing, miles and miles of them. Master Ingram did
not enlist but remained at home to take care of his family and his possessions.

After the war ended, Master Ingram called his slaves together and told them of their freedom,
saying, "Mr. Lincoln whipped the South and we are going back to the Union. You are as free
as I am and if you wish to remain here you may. If not, you may go any place you wish. I am
not rich but we can work together here for both our families, sharing everything we raise equally."
Pattillo's family remained there until 1870. Some owners kept their slaves in ignorance of
their freedom. Others were kind enough to offer them homes and help them to get a start.

After emancipation, politics began to play a part in the lives of ex-slaves, and many were
approached by candidates who wanted to buy their votes. Pattillo tells of an old ex-slave owner
named Greeley living in Upson County who bought an ex-slaves vote by giving him as payment
a ham, a sack of flour and a place to stay on his plantation. After election, he ordered the
ex-slave to get the wagon, load it with his possessions and move away from his plantation.
Astonished, the old Negro asked why. "Because," replied old Greeley, "If you allow anyone to
buy your vote and rob you of your rights as a free citizen, someone could hire you to set my
house on fire."

Pattillo remebers slavery gratefully and says he almost wishes these days were back again.
When asked if he liked to talk about his childhood days, he answered: "Yes Ma'am, but is you
one of dem pension ladies?" The negative reply was an evident disappointment to Alec, but it
did not hinder his narrative:

"Well, I wuz born on de line of Clarke and Oglethorpe Counties, way down de country. Celia
and Willis Pope wuz my ma and pa. Lawdy! Mist'ess, I don't know whar dey come f'um; 'peers
lak pa's fust Marster wuz named Pope. Dat's de onlies' last name I ever ricollec' us havin'.

"Dere wuz a passel of us chillun. My sisters wuz Sallie, Phebie Ann, Nelia, and Millie. My
brudders wuz Anderson, Osborn, George, Robert, Squire, Jack, and Willis. Willis wuz named for
pa and us nicknamed 'im Tuck.

"De slave quarters wuz little log houses scattered here and dar. Some of 'em had two rooms
on de fust flo' and a loft up 'bove whar de boys most genially slep' and de gals slep' downstairs.
I don't 'member nothin' t'all 'bout what us done 'cept scrap lak chilluns will do.

"Oh! I ain't forgot 'bout dem beds. Dey used cords for springs, and de cords run f'um head
to foot; den dey wove 'em 'cross de bed 'til dey looked lak checks. Wheat straw wuz sewed up
in ticks for mattresses. When you rolled 'round on one of dem straw mattresses, de straw crackled
and sounded lak rain. No Ma'am, I don't know nothin' t'all 'bout my gran'pa and gran'ma.

"I wuz de reg'lar water boy, and I plowed some too. 'Course dere wuz so many on dat plantation
it tuk more'n one boy to tote de water. Money? dis Nigger couldn't git no money in dem days.

"Us sho' had plenty somepin' t'eat, sich as meat, and cornbread, and good old wheat bread what
wuz made out of seconds. Dere wuz lots of peas, corn, cabbage, Irish 'tatoes, sweet 'tatoes,
and chickens, sometimes. Yes Ma'am, sometimes. I laks coffee, but us Niggers didn't have much
coffee. Dat wuz for de white folkses at de big house. Cookin' wuz done in de fireplace in great
big spiders. Some of de biggest of de spiders wuz called ovens. Dey put coals of fire underneath
and more coals on top of de lid. Ma baked bread and 'taters in de ashes. In winter she put
de dough in a collard leaf so it wouldn't burn. In summer green corn shucks wuz wrapped 'round
de dough 'stid of collard leaves. All de fish and 'possums and rabbits us had wuz cotch right
dar on Old Marster's place, 'cause if one of our Niggers got cotch offen our place hit wuz
jes' too bad. I sho' does love 'possum, and us had lots of 'em, 'cause my brudder used to ketch
'em by de wholesale wid a dog he had, and dat same dog wuz a powerful good rabbit hound too.

"Us had pretty good clothes most all de year 'round. In summer, shirts, and pants wuz made
out of coarse cotton cloth. Sometimes de pants wuz dyed gray. Winter time us had better clothes
made out of yarn and us allus had good Sunday clothes. 'Course I wuz jes' a plow boy den and
now I done forgot lots 'bout how things looked. Our shoes wuz jes' common brogans, no diff'unt
on Sunday, 'ceppin' de Nigger boys what wuz shinin' up to de gals cleaned up deir shoes dat day.

"Our Marster wuz Mr. Mordecai Ed'ards. Well, he wuz pretty good--not too good. He tried to
make you do right, but if you didn't he would give you a good brushin'. Miss Martha, Old Marster's
old 'oman, warn't good as Old Marster, but she done all right. Dey had a heap of chillun: Miss
Susan, Miss Mary, Miss Callie, Miss Alice, and it 'peers to me lak dere wuz two mo' gals, but
I can't 'call 'em now. Den dere wuz some boys: Marse Billy, Marse Jim, Marse John, Marse Frank,
and Marse Howard. Marse Frank Ed'ards lives on Milledge Avenue now.

"Old Marster and Old Mist'ess lived in a great big fine house what looked to me lak one of
dese big hotels does now. Marse Jack Ed'ards wuz de fust overseer I can ricollec'. He wuz kin
to Old Marster. Marster had two or three mo' overseers at diff'unt times, but I don't ricollec'
dey names. Dere wuz two car'iage drivers. Henry driv de gals 'round and Albert wuz Old Mist'ess'
driver. Old Marster had his own hoss and buggy, and most of de time he driv for hisself, but
he allus tuk a little Nigger boy namad Jordan 'long to help him drive and to hold de hoss.

"Lawdy! Mist'ess, I couldn't rightly say how many acres wuz in dat plantation. I knowed he
had two plantations wid fine houses on 'em. He jes' had droves and droves of Niggers and when
dey got scattered out over de fields, dey looked lak blackbirds dere wuz so many. You see I
wuz jes' a plow boy and didn't know nothin' 'bout figgers and countin'.

"De overseer got us up 'bout four o'clock in de mornin' to feed de stock. Den us et. Us allus
stopped off by dark. Mist'ess dere's a old sayin' dat you had to brush a Nigger in dem days
to make 'em do right. Dey brushed us if us lagged in de field or cut up de cotton. Dey could
allus find some fault wid us. Marster brushed us some time, but de overseer most gen'ally done
it. I 'members dey used to make de 'omans pull up deir skirts and brushed 'em wid a horse whup
or a hickory; dey done de mens de same way 'cept dey had to take off deir shirts and pull deir
pants down. Niggers sho' would holler when dey got brushed.

"Jails! Yes Ma'am, dey had 'em way down in Lexin'ton. You know some Niggers gwine steal anyhow,
and dey put 'em in dere for dat mostly. I didn't never see nobody sold or in chains. De only
chains I ever seed wuz on hosses and plows.

"Mist'ess, Niggers didn't have no time to larn to read in no Bible or nothin' lak dat in slav'ry
time. Us went to church wid de white folkses if us wanted to, but us warn't 'bleeged to go.
De white folkses went to church at Cherokee Corner. Dere warn't no special church for Niggers
'til long atter de War when dey built one out nigh de big road.

"Some of de Niggers run away to de Nawth--some dey got back, some dey didn't. Dem patterollers
had lots of fun if dey cotch a Nigger, so dey could brush 'im to hear 'im holler. De onlies'
trouble I ever heard 'bout twixt de whites and blacks wuz when a Nigger sassed a white man
and de white man shot 'im. H'it served dat Nigger right, 'cause he oughta knowed better dan
to sass a white man. De trouble ended wid dat shot.

"De most Niggers ever done for a good time wuz to have little parties wid heaps of fidlin'
and dancin'. On Sunday nights dey would have prayer meetin's. Dem patterollers would come and
break our prayer meetin's up and brush us if dey cotch us.

"Chris'mas wuz somepin' else. Us had awful good times den, 'cause de white folkses at de big
house give us plenty of goodies for Chris'mas week and us had fidlin' and dancin'. Us would
ring up de gals and run all 'round 'em playin' dem ring-'round-de-rosie games. Us had more
good times at corn shuckin's, and Old Marster allus had a little toddy to give us den to make
us wuk faster.

"Oh! No Ma'am, I don't 'member nothin' 'bout what us played when I wuz a little chap, and if
I ever knowed anything 'bout Rawhead and Bloody Bones and sich lak I done plumb forgot it now.
But I do know Old Marster and Old Mist'ess sho' wuz powerful good when dey Niggers got sick.
Dey put a messenger boy on a mule and sont 'im for Dr. Hudson quick, 'cause to lose a Nigger
wuz losin' a good piece of property. Some Niggers wore some sort of beads 'round deir necks
to keep sickness away and dat's all I calls to mind 'bout dat charm business.

"I wuz jes' a plow boy so I didn't take in 'bout de surrender. De only thing I ricollects 'bout
it wuz when Old Marster told my pa and ma us wuz free and didn't belong to him no more. He
said he couldn't brush de grown folks no more, but if dey wanted to stay wid 'im dey could,
and dat he would brush dey chilluns if dey didn't do right. Ma told 'im he warn't gwine brush
none of her chilluns no more.

"Us lived wid Old Marster 'bout a year, den pa moved up on de big road. Buy land? No Ma'am,
Niggers didn't have no money to buy no land wid 'til dey made it. I didn't take in 'bout Mr.
Lincoln, only dat thoo' him us wuz sot free. I heard 'em say Mr. Davis wuz de President of
de South, and 'bout Booker Washin'ton some of de Niggers tuk him in, but I didn't bodder 'bout him.

"Lawdy! Mist'ess, I didn't marry de fust time 'til long atter de War, and now I done been married
three times. I had a awful big weddin' de fust time. De white man what lived on de big road
not far f'um us said he never seed sich a weddin' in his life. Us drunk and et, and danced
and cut de buck most all night long. Most all my chilluns is dead. I b'lieve my fust wife had
10 or 11 chilluns. I know I had a passel fust and last; and jes' to tell you de trufe, dere
jes' ain't no need to stop and try to count de grand chilluns. All three of my wives done daid
and I'm lookin' for anudder one to take keer of me now.

"Why did I jine de church? 'Cause I jes' think evvybody oughta jine if dey wanna do right so'se
dey can go to Heben. I feels lak a diff'unt man since I done jined and I knows de Lord has
done forgive me for all my sins.

"Mist'ess ain't you thoo' axin' me questions yit? Anyhow I wuz thinkin' you wuz one of dem
pension ladies." When he was told that the interview was completed, Alec said: "I sho' is glad,
'cause I feels lak takin' a little nap atter I eat dese pecans what I got in my pocket. Goodbye
Mist'ess."

[HW: Dist. 5 Ex-Slave #84]

Whitley, Driskell 1-20-37

SLAVERY AS WITNESSED BY ANNIE PRICE [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Mrs. Annie Price was born in Spaulding County, Georgia October 12, 1855. Although only a mere
child when freedom was declared she is able to relate quite a few events in her own life as
well as some of the experiences of other slaves who lived in the same vicinity as she.

Her mother and father Abe and Caroline were owned by a young married couple named Kennon. (When
this couple were married Abe and Caroline had been given as wedding presents by the bride's
and the groom's parents). Besides her parents there four brothers and five sisters all of whom
were younger than she with one exception. The first thing that she remembers of her mother
is that of seeing her working in the "Marster's" kitchen.

Mr. Kennon was described as being a rather young man who was just getting a start in life.
His family consisted of his wife and about five children. He was not a mean individual. The
plantation on which he lived was a small one, having been given to him by his father (whose
plantation adjoined) in order to give him a start. Mr. Kennon owned one other slave besides
Mrs. Price and her family while his father owned a large number some of whom he used to lend
to the younger Mr. Kennon. Cotton and all kinds of vegetables were raised. There was also some
live stock.

As Mr. Kennon owned only a few slaves it was necessary for these few persons to do all of the
work. Says Mrs. Price: "My mother had to do everything from cultivating cotton to cooking."
The same was true of her father and the other servant. Before the break of day each morning
they were all called to prepare for the day's work. Mrs. Price then told how she has seen the
men of her plantation and those of the adjoining one going to the fields at this unearthly
hour eating their breakfast while sitting astride the back of a mule. After her mother had
finished cooking and cleaning the house she was sent to the field to help the men. When it
was too dark to see all field hands were permitted to return to their cabins. This same routine
was followed each day except Sundays when they were permitted to do much as they pleased. When
the weather was too bad for field work they shelled corn and did other types of work not requiring
too much exposure. Holidays were unheard of on the Kennon plantation. As a little slave girl
the only work that Mrs. Price ever had to do was to pick up chips and bark for her mother to
cook with. The rest of the time was spent in playing with the "Marster's" little girls.

"The servants on our plantation always had a plenty of clothes," continued Mrs. Price, "while
those on the plantation next to ours (Mrs. Kennon's father) never had enough, especially in
the winter." This clothing was given when it was needed and not at any specified time as was
the case on some of the other plantations in that community. All of these articles were made
on the plantation and the materials that were mostly used were homespun (which was also woven
on the premises) woolen goods, cotton goods and calico. It has been mentioned before that the
retinue of servants was small in number and so for this reason all of them had a reasonable
amount of those clothes that had been discarded by the master and the mistress. After the leather
had been cured it was taken to the Tannery where crude shoes called "Twenty Grands" were made.
These shoes often caused the wearer no little amount of discomfort until they were thoroughly
broken in.

For bedding, homespun sheets were used. The quilts and blankets were made from pieced cotton
material along with garments that were unfit for further wear. Whenever it was necessary to
dye any of these articles a type of dye made by boiling the bark from trees was used.

In the same manner that clothing was plentiful so was there always enough food. When Mrs. Price
was asked if the slaves owned by Mr. Kennon were permitted to cultivate a garden of their own
she stated that they did'nt need to do this because of the fact that Mr. Kennon raised everything
that was necessary and they often had more than enough. Their week-day diet usually consisted
of fried meat, grits, syrup and corn bread for breakfast; vegetables, pot liquor or milk, and
corn bread for dinner; and for supper there was milk and bread or fried meat and bread. On
Sunday they were given a kind of flour commonly known as the "seconds" from which biscuits
were made. "Sometimes", continued Mrs. Price, "my mother brought us the left-overs from the
master's table and this was usually a meal by itself". In addition to this Mr. Kennon allowed
hunting as well as fishing and so on many days there were fish and roast 'possum. Food on the
elder Mr. Kennon plantation was just as scarce as it was plentiful on his son's. When asked
how she knew about this Mrs. Price told how she had seen her father take meat from his master's
smoke house and hide it so that he could give it to those slaves who invaribly slipped over
at night in search of food. The elder Mr. Kennon had enough food but he was too mean to see
his slaves enjoy themselves by having full stomachs.

All cooking on Mrs. Price's plantation was done by her mother.

All of the houses on the Kennon plantation were made of logs including that of Mr. Kennon himself.
There were only two visible differences in the dwelling places of the slaves and that of Mr.
Kennon and there were (1) several rooms instead of the one room allowed the slaves and (2)
weatherboard was used on the inside to keep the weather out while the slaves used mud to serve
for this purpose. In these crude one-roomed houses (called stalls) there was a bed made of
some rough wood. Rope tied from side to side served as the springs for the mattress which was
a bag filled with straw and leaves. There were also one or two boxes which were used as chairs.
The chimney was made of rocks and mud. All cooking was done here at the fireplace. Mrs. Price
says; "Even Old Marster did'nt have a stove to cook on so you know we did'nt." The only available
light was that furnished by the fire. Only one family was allowed to a cabin so as to prevent
overcrowding. In addition to a good shingle roof each one of these dwellings had a board floor.
All floors were of dirt on the plantation belonging to the elder Mr. Kennon.

A doctor was employed to attend to those persons who were sick. However he never got chance
to practice on the Kennon premises as there was never any serious illness. Minor cases of sickness
were usually treated by giving the patient a dose of castor oil or several doses of some form
of home made medicine which the slaves made themselves from roots that they gathered in the
woods. In order to help keep his slaves in good health Mr. Kennon required them to keep the
cabins they occupied and their surroundings clean at all times.

Mrs. Price said that the slaves had very few amusements and as far as she can remember she
never saw her parents indulge in any form of play at all. She remembers, however, that on the
adjoining plantation the slaves often had frolics where they sang and danced far into the night.
These frolics were not held very often but were usually few and far between.

As there was no church on the plantation Mr. Kennon gave them a pass on Sundays so that they
could attend one of the churches that the town afforded. The sermons they heard were preached
by a white preacher and on rare occasions by a colored preacher. Whenever the colored pastor
preached there were several white persons present to see that [HW: no] doctrine save that laid
down by them should be preached. All of the marrying on both plantations [TR: duplicate section
removed here] was done by a preacher.

It has been said that a little learning is a dangerous thing and this certainly was true as
far as the slaves were concerned, according to Mrs. Price. She says: "If any of us were ever
caught with a book we would get a good whipping." Because of their great fear of such a whipping
none of them ever attempted to learn to read or to write.

As a general rule Mrs. Price and the other nembers of her family were always treated kindly
by the Kennon family. None of them were ever whipped or mistreated in any way. Mrs. Price says
that she has seen slaves on the adjoining plantation whipped until the blood ran. She describes
the sight in the following manner. "The one to be whipped was tied across a log or to a tree
and then his shirt was dropped around his waist and he was lashed with a cow hide whip until
his back was raw." Whippings like these were given when a slave was unruly or disobedient or
when he ran away. Before a runaway slave could be whipped he had to be caught and the chief
way of doing this was to put the blood hounds (known to the slaves as "nigger hounds") on the
fugitive's trail. Mrs. Price once saw a man being taken to his master after he had been caught
by the dogs. She says that his skin was cut and torn in any number of places and he looked
like one big mass of blood. Her father once ran away to escape a whipping.(this was during
the Civil War), and he was able to elude the dogs as well as his human pursuers. When asked
about the final outcome of this escape Mrs. Price replied that her father remained in hiding
until the war was over with and then he was able to show himself without any fear.

She has also seen slaves being whipped by a group of white men when her parents said were the
"Paddie-Rollers". It was their duty to whip those slaves who were caught away from their respective
plantations without a "pass", she was told.

According to Mrs. Price the jails were built for the "white folks". When a slave did something
wrong his master punished him.

She does'nt remember anything about the beginning of the Civil War neither did she understand
its significance until Mr. Kennon died as a result of the wounds that he received while in
action. This impressed itself on her mind indelibly because Mr. Kennon was the first dead person
she had ever seen. The Yankee troops did'nt come near their plantation and so they had a plenty
of food to satisfy their needs all during the war. Even after the war was over there was still
a plenty of all the necessities of life.

When Mrs. Kennon informed them that they were free to go or to stay as they pleased, her father,
who had just come out of hiding, told Mrs. Kennon that he did not want to remain on the plantation
any longer than it was necessary to get his family together. He said that he wanted to get
out to himself so that he could see how it felt to be free. Mrs. Price says that as young as
she was she felt very happy because the yoke of bondage was gone and she knew that she could
have a privelege like everybody else. And so she and her family moved away and her father began
farming for himself. His was prosperous until his death. After she left the plantation of her
birth she lived with her father until she became a grown woman and then she married a Mr. Price
who was also a farmer.

Mrs. Price believes that she has lived to reach such a ripe old age because she has always
served God and because she always tried to obey those older than she.

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-Slave #87]

A FEW FACTS OF SLAVERY BY CHARLIE PYE--Ex-Slave [Date Stamp: MAY -- --]

The writer was much surprised to learn that the person whom she was about to interview was
nine years old when the Civil War ended. His youthful appearance at first made her realize
that probably he was not an ex-slave after all. Very soon she learned differently. Another
surprise followed the first in that his memory of events during that period was very hazy.
The few facts learned are related as follows:

Mr. Charlie Pye was born in Columbus, Ga., 1856 and was the ninth child of his parents, Tom
Pye and Emmaline Highland. Tom Pye, the father, belonged to Volantine Pye, owner of a plantation
in Columbus, Ga. known as the Lynch and Pye Plantation.

Mr. Pye's mistress was Miss Mary Ealey, who later married a Mr. Watts. Miss Ealey owned a large
number of slaves, although she did not own a very large plantation. Quite a few of her slaves
were hired out to other owners. The workers on the plantation were divided into two or more
groups, each group having a different job to do. For instance, there were the plow hands, hoe
hands, log cutters, etc. Mr. Pye's mother was a plow hand and besides this, she often had to
cut logs. Mr. Pye was too young to work and spent most of his time playing around the yards.

Houses on the Ealey plantation were built of pine poles after which the cracks were filled
with red mud. Most of these houses consisted of one room; however, a few were built with two
rooms to accommodate the larger families. The beds, called "bunks" by Mr. Pye were nailed to
the sides of the room. Roped bottoms covered with a mattress of burlap and hay served to complete
this structure called a bed. Benches and a home made table completed the furnishings. There
were very few if any real chairs found in the slave homes. The houses and furniture were built
by skilled Negro carpenters who were hired by the mistress from other slave owners. A kind
slave owner would allow a skilled person to hire his own time and keep most of the pay which
he earned.

Plenty of food was raised on the Ealey plantation, but the slave families were restricted to
the same diet of corn meal, syrup, and fat bacon. Children were fed "pot likker", milk and
bread from poplar troughs, from which they ate with wooden spoons. Grown-ups ate with wooden
forks. Slaves were not allowed to raise gardens of their own, although Mr. Pye's uncle was
given the privilege of owning a rice patch, which he worked at night.

In every slave home was found a wooden loom which was operated by hands and feet, and from
which the cloth for their clothing was made. When the work in the fields was finished women
were required to come home and spin one cut (thread) at night. Those who were not successful
in completing this work were punished the next morning. Men wore cotton shirts and pants which
were dyed different colors with red oak bark, alum and copper. Copper produced an "Indigo blue
color." "I have often watched dye in the process of being made," remarked Mr. Pye. Mr. Pye's
father was a shoemaker and made all shoes needed on the plantation. The hair was removed from
the hides by a process known as tanning. Red oak bark was often used for it produced an acid
which proved very effective in tanning hides. Slaves were given shoes every three months.

To see that everyone continued working an overseer rode over the plantation keeping check on
the workers. If any person was caught resting he was given a sound whipping. Mr. Pye related
the following incident which happened on the Ealey plantation. "A young colored girl stopped
to rest for a few minutes and my uncle stopped also and spoke to her. During this conversation
the overseer came up and began whipping the girl with a "sapling tree." My uncle became very
angry and picked up an axe and hit the overseer in the head, killing him. The mistress was
very fond of my uncle and kept him hid until she could "run him." Running a slave was the method
they used in sending a slave to another state in order that he could escape punishment and
be sold again. You were only given this privilege if it so happened that you were cared for
by your mistress and master."

Overseers on the Ealey plantation were very cruel and whipped slaves unmercifully. Another
incident related by Mr. Pye was as follows:

"My mother resented being whipped and would run away to the woods and often remained as long
as twelve months at a time. When the strain of staying away from her family became too great,
she would return home. No sooner would she arrive than the old overseer would tie her to a
peach tree and whip her again. The whipping was done by a "Nigger Driver," who followed the
overseer around with a bull whip; especially for this purpose. The largest man on the plantation
was chosen to be the "Nigger Driver."

"Every slave had to attend church, although there were no separate churches provided for them.
However, they were allowed to occupy the benches which were placed in the rear of the church.
To attend church on another plantation, slaves had to get a pass or suffer punishment from
the "Pader Rollers." (Patrollers)

"We didn't marry on our plantation", remarked Mr. Pye. After getting the consent of both masters
the couple jumped the broom, and that ended the so called ceremony. Following the marriage
there was no frolic or celebration.

"Sometimes quilting parties were held in the various cabins on the plantation. Everyone would
assist in making the winter bed covering for one family one night and the next night for some
other family, and so on until everyone had sufficient bed covering.

"A doctor was only called when a person had almost reached the last stages of illness. Illness
was often an excuse to remain away from the field. "Blue mass pills", castor oil, etc. were
kept for minor aches and pains. When a slave died he was buried as quickly as a box could be
nailed together.

"I often heard of people refugeeing during the Civil War period," remarked Mr. Pye. "In fact,
our mistress refugeed to Alabama trying to avoid meeting the Yanks, but they came in another
direction. On one occasion the Yanks came to our plantation, took all the best mules and horses,
after which they came to my mother's cabin and made her cook eggs for them. They kept so much
noise singing, "I wish I was in Dixie" that I could not sleep. After freedom we were kept in
ignorance for quite a while but when we learned the truth my mother was glad to move away with us."

"Immediately after the war ex-slave families worked for one-third and one-fourth of the crops
raised on different plantations. Years later families were given one-half of the crops raised."

Mr. Pye ended the interview by telling the writer that he married at the age of 35 years and
was the father of two children, one of whom is living. He is a Baptist, belonging to Mount
Zion Church, and has attended church regularly and believes that by leading a clean, useful
life he has lengthened his days on this earth. During his lifetime Mr. Pye followed railroad
work. Recently, however, he has had to give this up because of his health.

[HW: Dist.

When I could first remember, Charlotte was supreme ruler of the kitchen of my home. Thin to
emaciation and stooped almost to the point of having a hump on her back she was yet wiry and
active. Her gnarled old hands could turn out prodigous amounts of work when she chose to extend
herself.

Her voice was low and musical and she seldom raised it above the ordinary tone of conversation;
yet when she spoke other colored people hastened to obey her and even the whites took careful
note of what she said. Her head was always bound in a snow-white turban. She wore calico or
gingham print dresses and white aprons and these garments always appeared to be freshly laundered.

Charlotte seldom spoke unless spoken to and she would never tell very much about her early
life. She had been trained as personal maid to one of her ex-master's daughters. This family,
(that of Swepson H. Cox) was one of the most cultured and refined that Lexington, in Oglethorpe
County, could boast.

Aunt Charlotte never spoke of her life under the old regime but she had supreme contempt for
"no count niggers that didn't hav' no white Folks". She was thrifty and frugal. Having a large
family, most of her small earnings was spent on them. However, she early taught her children
to scratch for themselves. Two of her daughters died after they had each brought several children
into the world. Charlotte thought they were being neglected by their fathers and proceeded
to take them "to raise myse'f". These grand children were the apple of her eye and she did
much more for them than she had done for her own children.

The old woman had many queer ways. Typical of her eccentricities was her iron clad refusal
to touch one bite of food in our house. If she wished a dish she was preparing tasted to see
that it contained the proper amount of each ingredient she would call some member of the family,
usually my grandmother, and ask that he or she sample the food. Paradoxically, she had no compunctions
about the amount of food she carried home for herself and her family.

Strange as it may seem, Charlotte was an incorrigible rogue. My mother and my grandmother both
say that they have seen her pull up her skirts and drop things into a flour sack which she
always wore tied round her waist just for this purpose. I myself have seen this sack so full
that it would bump against her knee. She did not confine her thefts to food only. She would
also take personal belongings. Another servant in the household once found one of Aunt Charlotte's
granddaughters using a compact that she had stolen from her young mistress. The servant took
the trinket away from the girl and returned it to the owner but nothing was ever said to Aunt
Charlotte although every one knew she had stolen it.

One year when the cherry crop was exceptionally heavy, grandmother had Charlotte make up a
huge batch of cherry preserves in an iron pot. While Charlotte was out of the kitchen for a
moment she went in to have a look at the preserves and found that about half of them had been
taken out. A careful but hurried search located the missing portion hidden in another container
behind the stove. Grandmother never said a word but simply put the amount that had been taken
out back in the pot.

Charlotte never permitted anyone to take liberties with her except Uncle Daniel, the "man of
all work" and another ex-slave. Daniel would josh her about some "beau" or about her over-fondness
for her grandchildren. She would take just so much of this and then with a quiet "g'long with
you", she would send him on about his business. Once when he pressed her a bit too far she
hurled a butcher knife at him.

Charlotte was not a superstitious soul. She did not even believe that the near-by screech of
an owl was an omen of death. However, she did have some fearful and wonderful folk remedies.

When you got a bee sting Charlotte made Daniel spit tobacco juice on it. She always gave a
piece of fat meat to babies because this would make them healthy all their lives. Her favorite
remedy was to put a pan of cold water under the bed to stop "night sweats."

In her last years failing eye-sight and general ill health forced her to give up her active
life. Almost a complete shut-in, she had a window cut on the north side of her room so she
could "set and see whut went on up at Mis' Molly's" (her name for my grandmother).

She was the perfect hostess and whenever any member of our family went to see how she did during
those latter days she always served locust beer and cookies. Once when I took her a bunch of
violets she gave me an old coin that she had carried on her person for years. Mother didn't
want me to take it because Charlotte's husband had given it to her and she set great store
by it. However, the old woman insisted that I be allowed to keep the token arguing it would
not be of use to her much longer anyway.

She died about a month later and in accordance with her instructions her funeral was conducted
like "white folk's buryin'", that is without the night being filled with wailing and minus
the usual harangue at the church. Even in death Charlotte still thought silence golden.

[HW: Dist. Fanny Randolph is a little old wrinkled-faced woman, but at the time of our visit
she was very neat in a calico dress and a white apron with a bandanna handkerchief around her head.

We saw her at the home of a niece with whom she lives, all of her own family being dead. Her
room was tidy, and she had a bright log fire burning in the wide old fire place. She readily
consented to talk about slavery times.

"Honey, I doan know how ole I is, but I'se been here er long time and I'se been told by folks
whut knows, dat I'se, maybe, mo' dan er hunderd years ole. I 'members back er long time befo'
de war. My mammy and daddy wuz bofe slaves. My daddy's name wuz Daniel White an' my mammy's
name befo' she married wuz Sarah Moon, she b'longed ter Marse Bob Moon who lived in Jackson
County over near whar Winder is now. He wuz er big landowner an' had lots uv slaves."

"When I wuz 'bout nine years ole, Marse Bob tuk me up ter de "big house" ter wait on ole Mistis.
I didn't hav' much ter do, jes' had ter he'p 'er dress an' tie 'er shoes an' run eroun' doin'
errands fur 'er. Yer know, in dem times, de white ladies had niggers ter wait on 'em an' de
big niggers done all de hard wuk 'bout de house an' yard."

"Atter some years my mammy an' daddy bofe died, so I jes' stayed at de "big house" an' wukked
on fer Marse Bob an' ole Mistis."

"Atter I growed up, us niggers on Marse Bob's plantation had big times at our corn shuckin's
an' dances. Us 'ud all git tergether at one uv de cabins an us 'ud have er big log fire an'
er room ter dance in. Den when us had all shucked corn er good while ever nigger would git
his gal an' dey would be some niggers over in de corner ter play fer de dance, one wid er fiddle
an' one ter beat straws, an' one wid er banjo, an' one ter beat bones, an' when de music 'ud
start up (dey gener'ly played 'Billy in de Low Grounds' or 'Turkey in de Straw') us 'ud git
on de flo'. Den de nigger whut called de set would say: 'All join hands an' circle to de lef,
back to de right, swing corners, swing partners, all run away!' An' de way dem niggers feets
would fly!"

"Bye an' bye de war come on, an' all de men folks had ter go an' fight de Yankees, so us wimmen
folks an' chillun had er hard time den caze us all had ter look atter de stock an' wuk in de
fiel's. Den us 'ud hear all 'bout how de Yankees wuz goin' aroun' an' skeerin' de wimmen folks
mos' ter death goin' in dey houses an' making de folks cook 'em stuff ter eat, den tearin'
up an' messin' up dey houses an' den marchin' on off."

"Den when ole Mistis 'ud hear de Yankees wuz comin' she'd call us niggers en us 'ud take all
de china, silver, and de joolry whut b'longed ter ole Miss an' her family an' dig deep holes
out b'hind de smoke-house or under de big house, en bury h'it all 'tell de Yankees 'ud git by."

"Dem wuz dark days, but atter er long time de war wuz over an' dey tole us us wuz free, I didn't
want ter leave my white folks so I stayed on fer sometime, but atter while de nigger come erlong
whut I married. His name wuz Tom Randolph an' befo' de war he b'longed ter Marse Joshua Randolph,
who lived at Jefferson, so den us moved ter Jefferson. Us had thirteen chillun, but dey's all
daid now an' my ole man is daid too, so I'se here all by my se'f an' ef h'it warn't fer my
two nieces here, who lets me liv' wid 'em I doan know whut I'd do."

"I'se allus tried ter do de right thin' an' de good Lawd is takin' keer uv me fer his prophet
say in de Good Book, 'I'se been young and now am ole, yet I'se nebber seed de righteous fersaken
ner his seed beggin' bread!' So I ain't worryin' 'bout sumpin' ter eat, but I doan want ter
stay here much longer onless h'its de good Lawds will."

Asked if she was superstitious, she said: "Well when I wuz young, I reckin' I wuz, but now
my pore ole mine is jes so tired and h'it doan wuk lak h'it uster, so I never does think much
'bout superstition, but I doan lak ter heer er "squinch owl" holler in de night, fer h'it sho
is a sign some uv yore folks is goin' ter die, en doan brin' er ax froo de house onless yer
take h'it back de same way yer brung h'it in, fer dat 'ill kill de bad luck."

When asked if she believed in ghosts or could "see sights" she said: "Well, Miss, yer know
if yer is borned wid er veil over yer face yer can see sights but I has never seed any ghosts
er sight's, I warn't born dat way, but my niece, here has seed ghostes, en she can tell yer
'bout dat."

When we were ready to leave we said, "Well, Aunt Fanny, we hope you live for many more years."
She replied: "I'se willin' ter go on livin' ez long ez de Marster wants me ter, still I'se
ready when de summons comes. De good Lawd has allus giv' me grace ter liv' by, an' I know He'll
giv' me dyin' grace when my time comes."

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-slave #94]

Alberta Minor Re-search Worker

SHADE RICHARDS, Ex-slave East Solomon Street Griffin, Georgia

September 14, 1936 [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Shade Richards was born January 13, 1846 on the Jimpson Neals plantation below Zebulon in Pike
County. His father, Alfred Richards had been brought from Africa and was owned by Mr. Williams
on an adjoining plantation. His mother, Easter Richards was born in Houston County but sold
to Mr. Neal. Shade being born on the plantation was Mr. Neal's property. He was the youngest
of 11 children. His real name was "Shadrack" and the brother just older than he was named "Meshack".
Sometimes the mothers named the babies but most of the time the masters did. Mr. Neal did Shade's
"namin'".

Shade's father came two or three times a month to see his family on Mr. Neal's plantation always
getting a "pass" from his master for "niggers" didn't dare go off their own plantation without
a "pass". Before the war Shade's grandfather came from Africa to buy his son and take him home,
but was taken sick and both father and son died. Shade's earliest recollections of his mother
are that she worked in the fields until "she was thru' bornin' chillun" then she was put in
charge of the milk and butter. There were 75 or 80 cows to be milked twice a day and she had
to have 5 or 6 other women helpers.

Mr. Neal had several plantations in different localities and his family did not live on this
one in Pike County but he made regular visits to each one. It had no name, was just called
"Neal's Place." It consisted of thirteen hundred acres. There were always two or three hundred
slaves on the place, besides the ones he just bought and sold for "tradin'". He didn't like
"little nigger men" and when he happened to find one among his slaves he would turn the dogs
on him and let them run him down. The boys were not allowed to work in the fields until they
were 12 years old, but they had to wait on the hands, such as carrying water, running back
to the shop with tools and for tools, driving wagons of corn, wheat etc. to the mill to be
ground and any errands they were considered big enough to do. Shade worked in the fields when
he became 12 years old.

This plantation was large and raised everything--corn, wheat, cotton, "taters", tobacco, fruit,
vegetables, rice, sugar cane, horses, mules, goats, sheep, and hogs. They kept all that was
needed to feed the slaves then sent the surplus to Savannah by the "Curz". The stage took passengers,
but the "Curz" was 40 or 50 wagons that took the farm surplus to Savannah, and "fetched back
things for de house."

Mr. Neal kept 35 or 40 hounds that had to be cooked for. He was "rich with plenty of money"
always good to his slaves and didn't whip them much, but his son, "Mr. Jimmy, sure was a bad
one". Sometimes he'd use the cow hide until it made blisters, then hit them with the flat of
the hand saw until they broke and next dip the victim into a tub of salty water. It often killed
the "nigger" but "Mr. Jimmy" didn't care. He whipped Shade's uncle to death.

When the "hog killin' time come" it took 150 nigger men a week to do it. The sides, shoulders,
head and jowls were kept to feed the slaves on and the rest was shipped to Savannah. Mr. Neal
was good to his slaves and gave them every Saturday to "play" and go to the "wrestling school".
At Xmas they had such a good time, would go from house to house, the boys would fiddle and
they'd have a drink of liquor at each house. The liquor was plentiful for they bought it in
barrels. The plantations took turn about having "Frolics" when they "fiddled and danced" all night.

If it wasn't on your own plantation you sure had to have a "pass". When a slave wanted to "jine
the church" the preacher asked his master if he was a "good nigger", if the master "spoke up
for you", you were "taken in," but if he didn't you weren't. The churches had a pool for the
Baptist Preachers to baptize in and the Methodist Preacher sprinkled.

Mr. Neal "traded" with Dr. by the year and whenever the slaves were hurt or sick he had to
come "tend" to them. He gave the families their food by the month, but if it gave out all they
had to do was to ask for more and he always gave it to them. They had just as good meals during
the week as on Sunday, any kind of meat out of the smoke house, chickens, squabs, fresh beef,
shoats, sheep, biscuits or cornbread, rice, potatoes, beans, syrup and any garden vegetables.
Sometimes they went fishing to add to their menu.

The single male slaves lived together in the "boy house" and had just as much as others. There
were a lot of women who did nothing but sew, making work clothes for the hands. Their Sunday
clothes were bought with the money they made off the little "patches" the master let them work
for themselves.

Mr. Jimmy took Shade to the war with him. Shade had to wait on him as a body servant then tend
to the two horses. Bullets went through Shade's coat and hat many times but "de Lord was takin'
care" of him and he didn't get hurt. They were in the battle of Appomatox and "at the surrenderin',"
April 8, 1865, but the "evidence warn't sworn out until May 29, so that's when the niggers
celebrate emancipation."

Shade's brother helped lay the R.R. from Atlanta to Macon so the Confederate soldiers and ammunition
could move faster.

In those days a negro wasn't grown until he was 21 regardless of how large he was. Shade was
"near 'bout" grown when the war was over but worked for Mr. Neal four years. His father and
mother rented a patch, mule and plow from Mr. Neal and the family was together. At first they
gave the niggers only a tenth of what they raised but they couldn't get along on it and after
a "lot of mouthin' about it" they gave them a third. That wasn't enough to live on either so
more "mouthin" about it until they gave them a half, "and thats what they still gits today."

When the slaves went 'courtin' and the man and woman decided to get married, they went to the
man's master for permission then to the woman's master. There was no ceremony if both masters
said "alright" they were considered married and it was called "jumpin' the broomstick."

Signs were "more true" in the olden days than now. God lead his people by dreams then. One
night Shade dreamed of a certain road he used to walk over often and at the fork he found a
lead pencil, then a little farther on he dreamed of a purse with $2.43 in it. Next day he went
farther and just like the dream he found the pocketbook with $2.43 in it.

Shade now works at the Kincaid Mill No. 2, he makes sacks and takes up waste. He thinks he's
lived so long because he never eats hot food or takes any medicine. "People takes too much
medicine now days" he says and when he feels bad he just smokes his corn cob pipe or takes
a chew of tobacco.

DORA ROBERTS

Dora Roberts was born in 1849 and was a slave of Joseph Maxwell of Liberty County. The latter
owned a large number of slaves and plantations in both Liberty and Early Counties. During the
war "Salem" the plantation in Liberty County was sold and the owner moved to Early County where
he owned two plantations known as "Nisdell" and "Rosedhu".

Today, at 88 years of age, Aunt Dora is a fine specimen of the fast disappearing type of ante-bellum
Negro. Her shrewd dark eyes glowing, a brown paper sack perched saucily on her white cottony
hair, and puffing contentedly on an old corn cob pipe, the old woman began her recital what
happened during plantation days.

"Dey is powerful much to tell ob de days ob slabry, chile, an' it come to me in pieces. Dis
story ain't in no rotation 'cause my mind it don't do dat kinda function, but I tell it as
it come ta me. De colored folks had dey fun as well as dey trials and tribulations, 'cause
dat Sat'day nigh dance at de plantation wuz jist de finest ting we wanted in dem days. All
de slabes fum de udder plantation dey cum ta our barn an' jine in an' if dey had a gal on dis
plantation dey lob, den dat wuz da time dey would court. Dey would swing to de band dat made
de music. My brother wuz de captain ob de quill band an' dey sure could make you shout an'
dance til you quz [TR: wuz?] nigh 'bout exhausted. Atta findin' ya gal ta dat dance den you
gits passes to come courtin' on Sundays. Den de most ob dom dey wants git married an' dey must
den git de consent fum de massa ceremonies wuz read ober dem and de man git passes fo' de week-end
ta syat [TR: stay?] wid his wife. But de slabes dey got togedder an' have dem jump over de
broom stick an' have a big celebration an' dance an' make merry 'til morning and it's time
fo' work agin.

"We worked de fields an' kep' up de plantation 'til freedom. Ebry Wednesday de massa come visit
us an look ober de plantation ta see dat all is well. He talk ta de obersheer an' find out
how good de work is. We lub de massa an' work ha'd fo' him.

"Ah kin 'member dat Wednesday night plain as it wuz yesterday. It seems lak de air 'round de
quarters an' de big house filled wid excitement; eben de wind seem lak it wuz waitin' fo' som'ting.
De dogs an' de pickaninnies dey sleep lazy like 'gainst de big gate waitin' fo' de crack ob
dat whip which wuz de signal dat Julius wuz bringin' de master down de long dribe under de
oaks. Chile, us all wuz happy knowin' date de fun would start.

"All of a sudden you hear dem chilluns whoop, an' de dogs bark, den de car'age roll up wid
a flourish, an' de coachman dressed in de fines' git out an' place de cookie try on de groun'.
Den dey all gadder in de circle an' fo' dey git dey supply, dey got ta do de pigeon wing.

"Chile, you ain't neber seen sich flingin' ob de arms an' legs in yo' time. Dem pickaninnies
dey had de natural born art ob twistin' dey body any way dey wish. Dat dere ting dey calls
truckin' now an' use to be chimmy, ain't had no time wid de dancin' dem chilluns do. Dey claps
dey hands and keep de time, while dat old brudder ob mine he blows de quills. Massa he would
allus bring de big tray ob 'lasses cookies fo' all de chilluns. Fast as de tray would empty,
Massa send ta de barrel fo' more. De niggers do no work dat day, but dey jist celebrate.

"Atta de war broke out we wuz all ca'yhed up to de plantation in Early County to stay 'til
atta de war. De day de mancipation wuz read dey wuz sadness an' gladness. De ole Massa he call
us all togedder an' wid tears in his eyes he say--'You is all free now an' you can go jist
whar you please. I hab no more jurisdiction ober you. All who stay will be well cared for.'
But de most ob us wanted to come back to de place whar we libed befo'--Liberty County.

"So he outfitted de wagons wid horses an' mules an' gib us what dey wuz ob privisions on de
plantation an' sent us on our way ta de ole plantation in Liberty County. Dare wuz six horses
ta de wagons. 'Long de way de wagons broke down 'cause de mules ain't had nothin' ta eat an'
most ob dem died. We git in sich a bad fix some ob de people died. When it seem lak we wuz
all gwine die, a planter come along de road an' he stopped ta find out what wuz de matter.
Wan he heard our story an' who our master wuz he git a message to him 'bout us.

"It seem lak de good Lord musta answered de prayers ob his chillun fo' 'long way down de road
we seed our Massa comin' an' he brung men an' horses to git us safely ta de ole home. When
he got us dare, I neber see him no more 'cause he went back up in Early County an' atta I work
dere at de plantation a long time den I come ta de city whyah my sister be wid one ob my master's
oldest daughters--a Mrs. Dunwodies[TR: ?? first letter of name not readable], who she wuz nursin'
fo'.

"An' dat's 'bout all dey is ta tell. When I sits an' rocks here on de porch it all comes back
ta me. Seems sometimes lak I wuz still dere on de plantation. An' it seem lak it's mos' time
fo' de massa ta be comin' ta see how tings are goin'."

Written by Ruth Chitty Research Worker District #2 Rewritten by Velma Bell

EX-SLAVE INTERVIEW: AUNT FEREBE ROGERS Baldwin County Milledgeville, Ga.

More than a century lies in the span of memory of "Aunt Ferebe" Rogers. The interviewers found
her huddled by the fireside, all alone while her grandaughter worked on a WPA Project to make
the living for them both. In spite of her years and her frail physique, her memory was usually
clear, only occasionally becoming too misty for scenes to stand out plainly. Her face lighted
with a reminiscent smile when she was asked to "tell us something about old times."

"I 'members a whole heap 'bout slav'ey times. Law, honey, when freedom come I had five chillen.
Five chillen and ten cents!" and her crackled laughter was spirited.

"Dey says I'm a hundred and eight or nine years old, but I don't think I'm quite as old as
dat. I knows I'se over a hundred, dough.

"I was bred and born on a plantation on Brier Creek in Baldwin County. My ole marster was Mr.
Sam Hart. He owned my mother. She had thirteen chillen. I was de oldest, so I tuck devil's fare.

"My daddy was a ole-time free nigger. He was a good shoe-maker, and could make as fine shoes
and boots as ever you see. But he never would work till he was plumb out o' money--den he had
to work. But he quit jes' soon as he made a little money. Mr. Chat Morris (he had a regular
shoe shop)--he offered him studdy work makin' boots and shoes for him. Was go'n' pay him $300.
a year. But he wouldn't take it. Was too lazy. De ole-time free niggers had to tell how dey
make dey livin', and if dey couldn't give satisfaction 'bout it, dey was put on de block and
sold to de highest bidder. Most of 'em sold for 3 years for $50. My daddy brought $100. when
he was sold for three or four years.

"I was on de block twice myself. When de old head died dey was so many slaves for de chillen
to draw for, we was put on de block. Mr. John Baggett bought me den; said I was a good breedin'
'oman. Den later, one de young Hart marsters bought me back.

"All de slaves had diff'unt work to do. My auntie was one de weavers. Old Miss had two looms
goin' all de time. She had a old loom and a new loom. My husband made de new loom for Old Miss.
He was a carpenter and he worked on outside jobs after he'd finished tasks for his marster.
He use to make all de boxes dey buried de white folks and de slaves in, on de Hart and Golden
Plantations. Dey was pretty as you see, too.

"I was a fiel' han' myself. I come up twix' de plow handles. I warn't de fastes' one wid a
hoe, but I didn't turn my back on nobody plowin'. No, mam.

"My marster had over a thousand acres o' land. He was good to us. We had plenty to eat, like
meat and bread and vegetables. We raised eve'ything on de plantation--wheat, corn, potatoes,
peas, hogs, cows, sheep, chickens--jes' eve'ything.

"All de clo'es was made on de plantation, too. Dey spun de thread from cotton and wool, and
dyed it and wove it. We had cutters and dem dat done de sewin'. I still got de fus' dress my
husband give me. Lemme show it to you."

Gathering her shawl about her shoulders, and reaching for her stick, she hobbled across the
room to an old hand-made chest.

"My husband made dis chis' for me." Raising the top, she began to search eagerly through the
treasured bits of clothing for the "robe-tail muslin" that had been the gift of a long-dead
husband. One by one the garments came out--her daughter's dress, two little bonnets all faded
and worn ("my babies' bonnets"), her husband's coat.

"And dat's my husband's mother's bonnet. It use to be as pretty a black as you ever see. It's
faded brown now. It was dyed wid walnut."

The chest yielded up old cotton cards, and horns that had been used to call the slaves. Finally
the "robe-tail muslin" came to light. The soft material, so fragile with age that a touch sufficed
to reduce it still further to rags, was made with a full skirt and plain waist, and still showed
traces of a yellow color and a sprigged design.

"My husband was Kinchen Rogers. His marster was Mr. Bill Golden, and he live 'bout fo' mile
from where I stayed on de Hart plantation."

"Aunt Ferebe, how did you meet your husband?"

"Well, you see, us slaves went to de white folks church a-Sunday. Marster, he was a prim'tive
Baptis', and he try to keep his slaves from goin' to other churches. We had baptisin's fust
Sundays. Back in dem days dey baptised in de creek, but at de windin' up o' freedom, dey dug
a pool. I went to church Sundays, and dat's where I met my husband. I been ma'ied jes' one
time. He de daddy o' all my chillen'. (I had fifteen in all.)"

"Who married you, Aunt Ferebe. Did you have a license?"

"Who ever heered a nigger havin' a license?" and she rocked with high-pitched laughter.

"Young marster was fixin' to ma'y us, but he got col' feet, and a nigger by name o' Enoch Golden
ma'ied us. He was what we called a 'double-headed nigger'--he could read and write, and he
knowed so much. On his dyin' bed he said he been de death o' many a nigger 'cause he taught
so many to read and write.

"Me and my husband couldn't live together till after freedom 'cause we had diffunt marsters.
When freedom come, marster wanted all us niggers to sign up to stay till Chris'man. Bless,
yo' soul, I didn't sign up. I went to my husband! But he signed up to stay wid his marster
till Chris'man. After dat we worked on shares on de Hart plantation; den we farmed fo'-five
years wid Mr. Bill Johnson."

"Aunt Ferebe, are these better times, or do you think slavery times were happier?"

"Well, now, you ax me for de truth, didn't you?--and I'm goin' to tell yo' de truth. I don't
tell no lies. Yes, mam, dese has been better times to me. I think hit's better to work for
yourself and have what you make dan to work for somebody else and don't git nuttin' out it.
Slav'ey days was mighty hard. My marster was good to us (I mean he didn't beat us much, and
he give us plenty plain food) but some slaves suffered awful. My aunt was beat cruel once,
and lots de other slaves. When dey got ready to beat yo', dey'd strip you' stark mother naked
and dey'd say, 'Come here to me, God damn you! Come to me clean! Walk up to dat tree, and damn
you, hug dat tree! Den dey tie yo' hands 'round de tree, den tie yo' feets; den dey'd lay de
rawhide on you and cut yo' buttocks open. Sometimes dey'd rub turpentine and salt in de raw
places, and den beat you some mo'. Oh, hit was awful! And what could you do? Dey had all de
'vantage of you.

"I never did git no beatin' like dat, but I got whuppin's--plenty o' 'em. I had plenty o' devilment
in me, but I quit all my devilment when I was ma'ied. I use to fight--fight wid anything I
could git my han's on.

"You had to have passes to go from one plantation to 'nother. Some de niggers would slip off
sometime and go widout a pass, or maybe marster was busy and dey didn't want to bother him
for a pass, so dey go widout one. In eve'y dee-strick dey had 'bout twelve men dey call patterollers.
Dey ride up and down and aroun' looking for niggers widout passes. If dey ever caught you off
yo' plantation wid no pass, dey beat you all over.

No amount of coaxing availed to make her sing the whole of the song, or to tell any more of
the words.

"When slaves run away, dey always put de blood-hounds on de tracks. Marster always kep' one
hound name' Rock. I can hear 'im now when dey was on de track, callin', 'Hurrah, Rock, hurrah,
Rock! Ketch 'im!'

"Dey always send Rock to fetch 'im down when dey foun' 'im. Dey had de dogs trained to keep
dey teef out you till dey tole 'em to bring you down. Den de dogs 'ud go at yo' th'oat, and
dey'd tear you to pieces, too. After a slave was caught, he was brung home and put in chains.

"De marsters let de slaves have little patches o' lan' for deyse'ves. De size o' de patch was
'cordin' to de size o' yo' family. We was 'lowed 'bout fo' acres. We made 'bout five hundred
pounds o' lint cotton, and sol' it at Warrenton. Den we used de money to buy stuff for Chris'man."

"Did you have big times at Christmas, Aunt Ferebe?"

"Chris'man--huh!--Chris'man warn't no diffunt from other times. We used to have quiltin' parties,
candy pullin's, dances, corn shuckin's, games like thimble and sich like."

Aunt Ferebe refused to sing any of the old songs. "No, mam, I ain't go'n' do dat. I th'oo wid
all dat now. Yes, mam, I 'members 'em all right, but I ain't go'n' sing 'em. No'm, nor say
de words neither. All dat's pas' now.

"Course dey had doctors in dem days, but we used mostly home-made medicines. I don't believe
in doctors much now. We used sage tea, ginger tea, rosemary tea--all good for colds and other
ail-ments, too.

"We had men and women midwives. Dr. Cicero Gibson was wid me when my fus' baby come. I was
twenty-five years old den. My baby chile seventy-five now."

"Auntie, did you learn to read and write?"

"No, mam, I'd had my right arm cut off at de elbow if I'd a-done dat. If dey foun' a nigger
what could read and write, dey'd cut yo' arm off at de elbow, or sometimes at de shoulder."

In answer to a query about ghosts, she said--"No, mam, I ain't seed nuttin' like dat. Folks
come tellin' me dey see sich and sich a thing. I say hit's de devil dey see. I ain't seed nuttin'
yit. No'm, I don't believe in no signs, neither."

"Do you believe a screeeh owl has anything to do with death?"

"Yes, mam, 'fo' one my chillen died, squinch owl come to my house ev'ey night and holler. After
de chile die he ain't come no mo'. Cows mooin' or dogs howlin' after dark means death, too.

"No, man, I don't believe in no cunjurs. One cunjur-man come here once. He try his bes' to
overcome me, but he couldn't do nuttin' wid me. After dat, he tole my husband he couldn't do
nuttin' to me, 'cause I didn't believe in him, and dem cunjur-folks can't hurt you less'n you
believes in 'em. He say he could make de sun stan' still, and do wonders, but I knowed dat
warn't so, 'cause can't nobody stop de sun 'cep' de man what made hit, and dat's God. I don't
believe in no cunjurs.

"I don't pay much 'tention to times o' de moon to do things, neither. I plants my garden when
I gits ready. But bunch beans does better if you plants 'em on new moon in Ap'il. Plant butterbeans
on full moon in Ap'il--potatoes fus' o' March.

"When de war broke out de damn Yankees come to our place dey done eve'ything dat was bad. Dey
burn eve'ything dey couldn't use, and dey tuck a heap o' corn. Marster had a thousand bushels
de purtiest shucked corn, all nice good ears, in de pen at de house. Dey tuck all dat. Marster
had some corn pens on de river, dough, dey didn't find. I jes' can't tell you all dey done.

"How come I live so long, you say?--I don't know--jes' de goodness o' de Lawd, I reckon. I
worked hard all my life, and always tried to do right."

[HW: Dist. To the men around town he is "Deacon", to his old friends back in Hancock County
(Georgia) where he was born and reared, he is "Brit"; to everybody else he is "Uncle Henry",
and he is a friend to all. For forty-one years he has lived in Washington-Wilkes where he has
worked as waiter, as lot man, and as driver for a livery stable when he "driv drummers" around
the country anywhere they wanted to go and in all kinds of weather. He is proud that he made
his trips safely and was always on time. Then when automobiles put the old time livery stables
out of business he went to work in a large furniture and undertaking establishment where he
had charge of the colored department. Finally he decided to accept a job as janitor and at
one time was janitor for three banks in town. He is still working as janitor in two buildings,
despite his seventy-three years.

Uncle Henry's "book learning" is very limited, but he has a store of knowledge gathered here
and there that is surprising. He uses very little dialect except when he is excited or worried.
He speaks of his heart as "my time keeper". When he promises anything in the future he says,
"Please the Lord to spare me", and when anyone gets a bit impatient he bids them, "Be paciable,
be paciable". Dismal is one of his favorite words but it is always "dism". When he says "Now,
I'm tellin' yer financially" or "dat's financial", he means that he is being very frank and
what he is saying is absolutely true.

Regarded highly as the local weather prophet, Uncle Henry gets up every morning before daybreak
and scans the heavens to see what kind of weather is on its way. He guards all these "signs"
well and under no consideration will he tell them. They were given to him by someone who has
passed on and he keeps them as a sacred trust. If asked, upon making a prediction, "How do
you know?" Uncle Henry shakes his wise old head and with a wave of the hand says, "Dat's all
right, you jess see now, it's goin' ter be dat way". And it usually is!

Seventy-three years ago "last gone June" Uncle Henry was born in the Mt. Zion community in
Hancock county (Georgia), seven miles from Sparta. His mother was Molly Navery Hunt, his father,
Jim Rogers. They belonged to Mr. Jenkins Hunt and his wife "Miss Rebecca". Henry was the third
of eight children. He has to say about his early life:

"Yassum, I wuz born right over there in Hancock county, an' stayed there 'til the year 1895
when Mrs. Riley come fer me to hep' her in the Hotel here in Washington an' I been here ev'ry
since. I recollects well living on the Hunt plantation. It wuz a big place an' we had fifteen
or twenty slaves"--(The "we" was proudly possessive)--"we wuz all as happy passel o' niggers
as could be found anywhere. Aunt Winnie wuz the cook an' the kitchen wuz a big old one out
in the yard an' had a fireplace that would 'commodate a whole fence rail, it wuz so big, an'
had pot hooks, pots, big old iron ones, an' everything er round to cook on. Aunt Winnie had
a great big wooden tray dat she would fix all us little niggers' meals in an' call us up an'
han' us a wooden spoon apiece an' make us all set down 'round the tray an' eat all us wanted
three times ev'ry day. In one corner of the kitchen set a loom my Mother use to weave on. She
would weave way into the night lots of times.

"The fust thing I 'members is follerin' my Mother er 'round. She wuz the housegirl an' seamstress
an' everywhere she went I wuz at her heels. My father wuz the overseer on the Hunt place. We
never had no hard work to do. My fust work wuz 'tendin' the calves an' shinin' my Master's
shoes. How I did love to put a Sunday shine on his boots an' shoes! He called me his nigger
an' wuz goin' ter make a barber out o' me if slavery had er helt on. As it wuz, I shaved him
long as he lived. We lived in the Quarters over on a high hill 'cross the spring-branch from
the white peoples' house. We had comfortable log cabins an' lived over there an' wuz happy.
Ole Uncle Alex Hunt wuz the bugler an' ev'ry mornin' at 4:00 o'clock he blowed the bugle fer
us ter git up, 'cept Sunday mornin's, us all slept later on Sundays.

"When I wuz a little boy us played marbles, mumble peg, an' all sich games. The little white
an' black boys played together, an' ev'ry time 'Ole Miss' whipped her boys she whipped me too,
but nobody 'cept my Mistess ever teched me to punish me.

"I recollects one Sadday night ole Uncle Aaron Hunt come in an' he must er been drinkin' or
sumpin' fer he got ter singin' down in the Quarters loud as he could 'Go Tell Marse Jesus I
Done Done All I Kin Do', an' nobody could make him hush singin'. He got into sich er row 'til
they had ter go git some o' the white folks ter come down an' quiet him down. Dat wuz the only
'sturbance 'mongst the niggers I ever 'members.

"I wuz so little when the War come on I don't member but one thing 'bout it an' that wuz when
it wuz over with an' our white mens come home all de neighbors, the Simpsons, the Neals, the
Allens all living on plantations 'round us had a big dinner over at my white peoples', the
Hunts, an' it sho wuz a big affair. Ev'rybody from them families wuz there an' sich rejoicin'
I never saw. I won't forgit that time.

"I allus been to Church. As a little boy my folks took me to ole Mt Zion. We went to the white
peoples' Church 'til the colored folks had one of they own. The white folks had services in
Mt Zion in the mornings an' the niggers in the evenin's."

When a colored person died back in the days when Uncle Henry was coming on, he said they sat
up with the dead and had prayers for the living. There was a Mr. Beman in the community who
made coffins, and on the Hunt place old Uncle Aaron Hunt helped him. The dead were buried in
home-made coffins and the hearse was a one horse wagon.

"When I wuz a growin' up" said Uncle Henry, "I wore a long loose shirt in the summer, an' in
the winter plenty of good heavy warm clothes. I had 'nits an' lice' pants an' hickory stripe
waists when I wuz a little boy. All these my Mother spun an' wove the cloth fer an' my Mistess
made. When I wuz older I had copperas pants an' shirts."

Uncle Henry has many signs but is reluctant to tell them. Finally he was prevailed upon to
give several. What he calls his "hant sign" is: "If you runs into hot heat sudden, it is a
sho sign hants is somewheres 'round."

When a rooster comes up to the door and crows, if he is standing with his head towards the
door, somebody is coming, if he is standing with his tail towards the door, it is a sign of
death, according to Uncle Henry. It is good luck for birds to build their nests near a house,
and if a male red bird comes around the woodpile chirping, get ready for bad weather for it
is on its way.

Uncle Henry is a pretty good doctor too, but he doesn't like to tell his remedies. He did say
that life everlasting tea is about as good thing for a cold as can be given and for hurts of
any kind there is nothing better than soft rosin, fat meat and a little soot mixed up and bound
to the wound. He is excellent with animals and when a mule, dog, pig or anything gets sick
his neighbors call him in and he doctors them and usually makes them well.

As for conjuring, Uncle Henry has never known much about it, but he said when he was a little
fellow he heard the old folks talk about a mixture of devil's snuff and cotton stalk roots
chipped up together and put into a little bag and that hidden under the front steps. This was
to make all who came up the steps friendly and peacable even if they should happen to be coming
on some other mission.

After the War the Rogers family moved from the Hunts' to the Alfriend plantation adjoining.
As the Alfriends were a branch of the Hunt family they considered they were still owned as
in slavery by the same "white peoples". They lived there until Uncle Henry moved to Washington-Wilkes
in 1895.

Christmas was a great holiday on the plantation. There was no work done and everybody had a
good time with plenty of everything good to eat. Easter was another time when work was laid
aside. A big Church service took place Sunday and on Monday a picnic was attended by all the
negroes in the community.

There were Fourth of July celebrations, log rollings, corn shuckings, house coverings and quilting
parties. In all of these except the Fourth of July celebration it was a share-the-work idea.
Uncle Henry grew a bit sad when he recalled how "peoples use ter be so good 'bout hep'in' one
'nother, an' now dey don't do nothin' fer nobody lessen' dey pays 'em." He told how, when a
neighbor cleared a new ground and needed help, he invited all the men for some distance around
and had a big supper prepared. They rolled logs into huge piles and set them afire. When all
were piled high and burning brightly, supper was served by the fire light. Sometimes the younger
ones danced around the burning logs. When there was a big barn full of corn to be shucked the
neighbors gladly gathered in, shucked the corn for the owner, who had a fiddler and maybe some
one to play the banjo. The corn was shucked to gay old tunes and piled high in another barn.
Then after a "good hot supper" there was perhaps a dance in the cleared barn. When a neighbor's
house needed covering, he got the shingles and called in his neighbors and friends, who came
along with their wives. While the men worked atop the house the women were cooking a delicious
dinner down in the kitchen. At noon it was served amid much merry making. By sundown the house
was finished and the friends went home happy in the memory of a day spent in toil freely given
to one who needed it.

All those affairs were working ones, but Uncle Henry told of one that marked the end of toil
for a season and that was the Fourth of July as celebrated on the Hunt and Alfriend plantations.
He said: "On the evenin' of the third of July all plows, gear, hoes an' all sich farm tools
wuz bro't in frum the fields an' put in the big grove in front o' the house where a long table
had been built. On the Fo'th a barbecue wuz cooked, when dinner wuz ready all the han's got
they plows an' tools, the mules wuz bro't up an' gear put on them, an' den ole Uncle Aaron
started up a song 'bout the crops wuz laid by an' res' time had come, an' everybody grabbed
a hoe er sumpin', put it on they shoulder an' jined the march 'round an' round the table behind
Uncle Aaron singin' an' marchin', Uncle Aaron linin' off the song an' ev'ry body follerin'
him. It wuz a sight to see all the han's an' mules er goin' 'round the table like that. Den
when ev'ry body wuz might nigh 'zausted, they stopped an' et a big barbecue dinner. Us use
ter work hard to git laid by by de Fo'th so's we could celebrate. It sho' wuz a happy time
on our plantations an' the white peoples enjoyed it as much as us niggers did.

"Us use ter have good times over there in Hancock County", continued Uncle Henry. Ev'rybody
wuz so good an' kind ter one 'nother; 't'ain't like that now--no mam, not lak it use ter be.
Why I 'members onst, when I fust growed up an' wuz farmin' fer myself, I got sick way long
up in the Spring, an' my crop wuz et up in grass when one evenin' Mr. Harris--(he wuz overseein'
fer Mr. Treadwell over on the next plantation to the Alfriends)--come by. I wuz out in the
field tryin' ter scratch 'round as best I could, Mr. Harris say: 'Brit, you in de grass mighty
bad.' I say: 'Yassir, I is, but I been sick an' couldn't hep' myself, that's how come I so
behind.' He say: 'Look lak you needs hep'.' 'Yassir,' I says, 'but I ain't got nobody to work
but me.' Dat's all he said. Well sir, the nex' mornin' by times over comes Mr. Harris wid six
plows an' eight hoe han's an' they give me a whole day's work an' when they finished that evenin'
they want a sprig of grass in my crop; it wuz clean as this floor, an' I'se tellin' yer the
truth. Dat's the way peoples use ter do, but not no mo'--everybody too selfish now, an' they
think ain't nobody got responsibilits (responsibilities) but them."

Speaking of his early life Uncle Henry continued: "When I growed up I broke race horses fer
white mens an' raced horses too, had rooster fights an' done all them kind o' things, but I
'sought 'ligion an' found it an' frum that day to this I ain't never done them things no mo'.
When I jined the Church I had a Game rooster named 'Ranger' that I had won ev'ry fight that
I had matched him in. Peoples come miles ter see Ranger fight; he wuz a Warhorse Game. After
I come to be a member of the Church I quit fightin' Ranger so Mr. Sykes come over an' axed
me what I would take fer him, I told him he could have him--I warn't goin' to fight wid him
any mo'. He took him an' went over three states, winnin' ev'ry fight he entered him in an'
come home wid fifteen hundred dollars he made on Ranger. He give me fifty dollars, but I never
wanted him back. Ranger wuz a pet an' I could do anything wid 'im. I'd hold out my arm an'
tell him to come up an' he'd fly up on my arm an' crow. He'd get on up on my haid an' crow
too. One rainy day 'fore I give him away he got in the lot an' kilt three turkeys an' a gobbler
fer my Mistess. She got mighty mad an' I sho wuz skeered 'til Marse took mine an' Ranger's
part an' wouldn't let her do nothin' wid us."

Forty-seven years ago Uncle Henry married Annie Tiller of Hancock County. They had four children,
three of whom are living. About his courtship and marriage he has to say: "I wuz at Sunday
School one Sunday an' saw Annie fer the fust time. I went 'round where she wuz an' wuz made
'quainted with her an' right then an' there I said to myself, 'She's my gal'. I started goin'
over to see her an' met her folks. I liked her Pa an Ma an' I would set an' talk with them
an' 'pear not to be payin' much 'tention to Annie. I took candy an' nice things an' give to
the family, not jest to her. I stood in with the ole folks an' 't'warn't long 'fore me an'
Annie wuz married." Uncle Henry said he took Annie to Sparta to his Pastor's home for the marriage
and the preacher told him he charged three dollars for the ceremony. "But I tole him I warnt
goin' to give him but er dollar an' a half 'cause I wuz one of his best payin' members an'
he ought not to charge me no more than dat. An' I never paid him no mo' neither, an' dat wuz
er plenty."

Though he is crippled in his "feets" he is hale and hearty and manages to work without missing
a day. He is senior Steward in his church and things there go about like he says even though
he isn't a preacher. All the members seem to look to him for "consulation an' 'couragement".
In all his long life he has "never spoke a oath if I knows it, an' I hates cussin'." He speaks
of his morning devotions as "havin' prayers wid myself". His blessing at mealtime is the same
one he learned in his "white peoples'" home when he was a little boy:

  "We humbly thank Thee, our Heavenly Father,
     for what we have before us."

Uncle Henry says: "I loves white peoples an' I'm a-livin' long 'cause in my early days dey
cared fer me an' started me off right--they's my bes' frien's."

[HW: Dist. 5 E.F. Driskell 12/30/36

JULIA RUSH, Ex-Slave 109 years old]

[TR: The beginning of each line on the original typewritten pages for this interview is very
faint, and some words have been reconstructed from context. Questionable entries are followed
by [??]; words that could not be deciphered are indicated by [--].]

Mrs. Julia Rush was born in 1826 on Saint Simons Island, Georgia. Mrs. Rush, her mother, and
three sisters were the property of a Frenchman named Colonel De Binien, a very wealthy land
owner. Mrs. Rush does not remember her father as he was sold away from his family when she
was a baby.

As a child Mrs. Rush served as playmate to one of the Colonel's daughters and so all that she
had to do was to play from morning till night. When she grew older she started working in the
kitchen in the master's house. Later she was sent to the fields where she worked side by side
with her mother and three sisters from sunup until sundown. Mrs. Rush says that she has plowed
so much that she believes she can "outplow" any man.

Instead of the white overseer usually found on plantations the Colonel used one of the slaves
to act as foreman of the field hands. He was known to the other slaves as the "Nigger Driver"
and it was he who awakened all every morning. It was so dark until torch lights had to be used
to see by. Those women who had babies took them along to the field in a basket which they placed
on their heads. All of the hands were given a certain amount of work to perform each day and
if the work was not completed a whipping might be forthcoming. Breakfast was sent to the field
to the hands and if at dinner time they were not too far away from their cabins they were permitted
to go home[??]. At night they prepared their own meals in their individual cabins.

All food on the colonel's plantation was issued daily from the corn house. Each person was
given enough corn to make a sufficient amount of bread for the day when ground. Then they went
out and dug their potatoes from the colonel's garden. No meat whatsoever was issued. It was
up to the slaves to catch fish, oysters, and other sea food for their meat supply. All those
who desired to were permitted to raise chickens, watermelons and vegetables. There was no restriction
on any as to what must be done with the produce so raised. It could be sold or kept for personal
consumption.

Colonel De Binien always saw that his slaves had sufficient clothing. In the summer months
the men were given two shirts, two pairs of pants, and two pairs of underwear. All of these
clothes were made of cotton and all were sewed on the plantation. No shoes were worn in the
summer. The women were given two dresses, two underskirts, and two pairs of underwear. When
the winter season approached another issue of clothes was given. At this time shoes were given.
They were made of heavy red leather and were known as "brogans".

The slave quarters on the plantation were located behind the colonel's cabin[??]. All were
made of logs. The chinks in the walls were filled with mud to keep the weather out. The floors
were of wood in order to protect the occupants from the dampness. The only furnishings were
a crude bed and several benches. All cooking was done at the large fireplace in the rear of
the one room.

When Colonel De Binion's [TR: earlier, De Binien] wife died he divided his slaves among the
children. Mrs. Rush was given to her former playmate who was at the time married and living
in Carrollton, Georgia. She was very mean and often punished her by beating her on her forearm
for the slightest offence. At other times she made her husband whip her (Mrs. Rush) on her
bare back with a cowhide whip. Mrs. Rush says that her young Mistress thought that her husband
was being intimate with her and so she constantly beat and mistreated her. On one occasion
all of the hair on her head (which was long and straight) was cut from her head by the young
mistress.

For a while Mrs. Rush worked in the fields where she plowed and hoed the crops along with the
other slaves. Later she worked in the master's house where she served as maid and where she
helped with the cooking. She was often hired out to the other planters in the vicinity. She
says that she liked this because she always received better treatment than she did at her own
home. These persons who hired her often gave her clothes as she never received a sufficient
amount from her own master.

The food was almost the same here as it had been at the other plantation. At the end of each
week she and her fellow slaves were given a "little bacon, vegetables, and some corn meal."[HW:
?] This had to last for a certain length of time. If it was all eaten before the time for the
next issue that particular slave had to live as best he or she could. In such an emergency
the other slaves usually shared with the unfortunate one.

There was very little illness on the plantation where Mrs. Rush lived. Practically the only
medicine ever used was castor oil and turpentine. Some of the slaves went to the woods and
gathered roots and herbs from which they made their own tonics and medicines.

According to Mrs. Rush the first of the month was always sale day for slaves and horses. She
was sold on one of those days from her master in Carrollton to one Mr. Morris, who lived in
Newman, Ga. Mr. Morris paid $1100.00 for her. She remained with him for a short while and was
later sold to one Mr. Ray who paid the price of $1200.00. Both of these masters were very kind
to her, but she was finally sold back to her former master, Mr. Archibald Burke of Carrollton, Ga.

Mrs. Rush remembers that none of the slaves were allowed away from their plantation unless
they held a pass from their master. Once when she was going to town to visit some friends she
was accosted by a group of "Paddle-Rollers" who gave her a sound whipping when she was unable
to show a pass from her master.

Mrs. Rush always slept in her masters' houses after leaving Colonel De Binien. When she was
in Carrollton her young mistress often made her sleep under the house when she was angry with her.

After the war was over with and freedom was declared Mr. Burke continued to hold Mrs. Rush.
After several unsuccessful attempts she was finally able to escape. She went to another part
of the state where she married and started a family of her own.

Because of the cruel treatment that she received at the hands of some of her owners[??] Mrs.
Rush says that the mere thought of slavery makes her blood boil. Then there are those, under
whom she served, who treated her with kindness, whom she holds no malice against.

As far as Mrs. Rush knows the war did very little damage to Mr. Burke. He did not enlist as
a soldier.

[HW: Dist. 1 Ex-Slave #96]

[HW: Good ghost story on page 4.] [HW: "revolution drummer" parts very good.]

EX-SLAVE INTERVIEW NANCY SETTLES, Ex-slave, Age 92 2511 Wheeler Road (Richmond County) Augusta,
Georgia

By: (Mrs.) MARGARET JOHNSON Augusta, Georgia [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

Nancy Settles was born 15 miles from Edgefield in South Carolina on the plantation of Mr. Berry
Cochran.

Until about five months ago, Nancy had been bed-ridden for three years. Her speech is slow,
and at times it is difficult to understand her, but her mind is fairly clear. Her eyes frequently
filled with tears, her voice becoming so choked she could not talk. "My Marster and Missis,
my husban' and eight of my chaps done lef me. De Lawd mus be keepin' me here fur some reason.
Dis here chile is all I got lef'." The "Chile" referred to was a woman about 69. "My fust chap
was born in slavery. Me and my husband lived on diffunt plantashuns till after Freedom come.
My Ma and my Pa lived on diffunt places too. My Pa uster come evy Sadday evenin' to chop wood
out uv de wood lot and pile up plenty fur Ma till he come agin. On Wensday evenin', Pa uster
come after he been huntin' and bring in possum and coon. He sho could get 'em a plenty.

"Ma, she chop cotton and plow, and I started choppin' cotton when I wuz twelve years old. When
I was a gal I sure wuz into plenty devilment."

"What kind of devilment?"

"Lawdy Miss, evy time I heayd a fiddle, my feets jes' got to dance and dancin' is devilment.
But I ain't 'lowed to dance nothin' but de six-handed reel.

"I uster take my young Misses to school ev'y day, but de older Misses went to boadin' school
and come home ev'y Friday an' went back on Monday. No ma'am, I never learn to read and write
but I kin spell some."

"Nancy, did you go out at night and were you ever caught by the patrol?"

"No, ma'am, I never wuz caught by de patterol; my Pa wuz the one I was scart uv."

"Did you always have enough to eat, and clothes to wear?"

"Yes ma'am, Marster put out a side uv meat and a barrul o' meal and all uv us would go and
git our rations fur de week."

"Suppose some one took more than his share, and the supply ran short."

"Lawd Ma'am, we knowed better'n to do dat kinder thing. Eve'ybody, had er garden patch an'
had plenty greens and taters and all dat kinder thing. De cloth fur de slave close wuz all
made on the place and Missis see to mekkin' all de close we wear."

"My Missis died endurin' of de war, but Marster he live a long time. Yes, Ma'am, we went to
Church an to camp meetin' too. We set up in de galley, and ef dey too many uv us, we set in
de back uv de church. Camp meetin' wuz de bes'. Before Missis died I wuz nussin' my young miss
baby, and I ride in de white foke's kerrage to camp meetin' groun' and carry de baby. Lawdy,
I seen de white folks and de slaves too shoutin' an gittin' 'ligion plenty times."

"Nancy, were the slaves on your place ever whipped?"

"Yes'm sometimes when de wouldn' mine, but Marster allus whip 'em hissef, he ain't let nobody
else lay er finger on his slaves but him. I heayd 'bout slaves been whipped but I tink de wuz
whipped mostly cause de Marsters could whip 'em."

"Nancy do you know any ghost stories, or did you ever see a ghost?"

"No, Ma'am, I ain't never see a ghos' but I heayd de drum!"

"What drum did you hear--war drums?"

"No, ma'am de drum de little man beats down by Rock Crick. Some say he is a little man whut
wears a cap and goes down the crick beating a drum befo' a war. He wuz a Revolushun drummer,
and cum back to beat the drum befo' de war. But some say you can hear de drum 'most any spring
now. Go down to the Crick and keep quiet and you hear Brrr, Brrr, Bum hum, louder and louder
and den it goes away. Some say dey hav' seen de little man, but I never seen him, but I heayd
de drum, 'fo de war, and ater dat too. There was a white man kilt hisself near our place. He
uster play a fiddle, and some time he come back an play. I has heayd him play his fiddle, but
I ain't seen him. Some fokes say dey is seen him in the wood playin' and walkin' 'bout."

"Nancy I am glad you are better than you were the last time I came to see you."

"Yes, Ma'am, I is up now. I prayed to God and tell Him my trouble and he helped me get about
again. This po chile uv mine does what she kin to pay de rent and de Welfare gives us a bit
to eat but I sho do need er little wood, cause we is back on de rent and my chile jes scrap
'bout to pick up trash wood and things to burn." "No'm I don't mind, its been many a long day
since anybody axed me to talk 'bout things dat far back, but I laks to have somebody to talk
to 'cause I can't git 'bout no more since I los' both of my footses, and I gits powerful lonesome
sometimes.

"I was borned in Oconee County, not far f'um whar Bishop is now. It warn't nothin' but a cornfield,
way back in dem times. Ma was Jane Southerland 'fore she married my pa. He was Tom Sheets.
Lawsy Miss! I don't know whar dey cone f'um. As far as I knows, dey was borned and raised on
deir Marsters' plantations. Dar was seven of us chilluns. I was de oldes'; James, Joe, Speer,
Charlie, and Ham was my brudders, and my onlies' sister was Frances.

"You ax me 'bout my gram'ma and gram'pa? I can't tell you nothin' t'all 'bout 'em. I jus' knows
I had 'em and dat's all. You see Ma was a house gal and de mos' I seed of her was when she
come to de cabin at night; den us chilluns was too sleepy to talk. Soon as us et, us drapped
down on a pallet and went fast asleep. Niggers is a sleepyheaded set.

"I was a water boy, and was 'spected to tote water f'um de spring to de house, and to de hands
in de fiel'. I helped Mandy, one of de colored gals, to drive de calves to de pasture and I
toted in a little wood and done little easy jobs lak dat. Lawsy Miss! I never seed no money
'til atter de War. If I had a had any money what could I have done wid it, when I couldn't
leave dat place to spend it?

"Dare ain't much to tell 'bout what little Nigger chillun done in slavery days. Dem what was
big enough had to wuk, and dem what warn't, played, slep' and scrapped. Little Niggers is bad
as game chickens 'bout fightin'. De quarters whar us lived was log cabins chinked wid mud to
keep out de rain and wind. Chimblies was made out of fiel' rock and red clay. I never seed
a cabin wid more dan two rooms in it.

"Beds warn't fancy dem days lak dey is now; leastwise I didn't see no fancy ones. All de beds
was corded; dey had a headboard, but de pieces at de foot and sides was jus' wide enough for
holes to run de cords thoo', and den de cords was pegged to hold 'em tight. Nigger chillun
slep' on pallets on de flo'.

"Marse Jeff Southerland was a pore man, but he fed us all us could eat sich as turnips, cabbages,
collards, green corn, fat meat, cornbread, 'taters and sometimes chicken. Yes Ma'am, chicken
dinners was sorter special. Us didn't have 'em too often. De cookin' was all done at de big
house in a open fireplace what had a rack crost it dat could be pulled out to take de pots
off de fire. 'Fore dey started cookin', a fire was made up ready and waitin'; den de pots of
victuals was hung on de rack and swung in de fireplace to bile. Baking was done in skillets.
Us cotched rabbits three and four at a time in box traps sot out in de plum orchard. Sometimes
us et 'em stewed wid dumplin's and some times dey was jus' plain biled, but us laked 'em bes'
of all when dey was fried lak chickens.

"Oh! dem 'possums! How I wisht I had one right now. My pa used to ketch 40 or 50 of 'em a winter.
Atter dey married, Ma had to stay on wid Marse Jeff and Pa was 'bliged to keep on livin' wid
Marster Marsh Sheets. His marster give him a pass so dat he could come and stay wid Ma at night
atter his wuk was done, and he fetched in de 'possums. Dey was baked in de white folkses kitchen
wid sweet 'tatoes 'roun' 'em and was barbecued sometimes. Us had fishes too what was mighty
good eatin'. Dere warn't but one gyarden on de plantation.

"Slave chillun didn't wear nothin' in summer but shirts what looked lak gowns wid long sleeves.
Gals and boys was dressed in de same way when dey was little chaps. In winter us wore shirts
made out of coarse cloth and de pants and little coats was made out of wool. De gals wore wool
dresses." He laughed and said: "On Sunday us jus' wore de same things. Did you say shoes? Lawsy
Miss! I was eight or nine 'fore I had on a pair of shoes. On frosty mornin's when I went to
de spring to fetch a bucket of water, you could see my feet tracks in de frost all de way dar
and back.

"Miss Carrie, my Mist'ess, was good as she knowed how to be. Marse and Mist'ess had two gals
and one boy, Miss Anna, Miss Callie, and Marster Johnny.

"Marse Jeff was a good man; he never whupped and slashed his Niggers. No Ma'am, dere warn't
nobody whupped on Marse Jeff's place dat I knows 'bout. He didn't have no overseer. Dere warn't
no need for one 'cause he didn't have so many slaves but what he could do de overseein' his
own self. Marse Jeff jus' had 'bout four mens and four 'oman slaves and him and young Marse
Johnny wukked in de fiel' 'long side of de Niggers. Dey went to de fiel' by daybreak and come
in late at night.

"When Marse Jeff got behind wid his crop, he would hire slaves f'um other white folkses, mostly
f'um Pa's marster, dat's how Pa come to know my Ma.

"Dere was 'bout a hunderd acres in our plantation countin' de woods and pastures. Dey had 'bout
three or four acres fenced in wid pine poles in a plum orchard. Dat's whar dey kep' de calves.

"Dere was a jail at Watkinsville, but Marse Jeff never had none of his slaves put in no jail.
He didn't have so many but what he could make 'em behave. I never seed no slaves sold, but
I seed 'em in a wagon passin' by on deir way to de block. Marse Jeff said dey was takin' 'em
a long ways off to sell 'em. Dat's why dey was a-ridin'.

"Miss Anna larned Ma her A.B.C's. She could read a little, but she never larned to write.

"Slaves went to de white folkses church if dey went a t'all. I never could sing no tune. I'se
lak my Ma; she warn't no singer. Dat's how come I can't tell you 'bout de songs what dey sung
den. I 'members de fus' time I seed anybody die; I was 'bout eight years old, and I was twelve
'fore I ever seed a funeral. No Ma'am, us chilluns didn't go to no baptizin's--Ma went, but
us didn't.

"Didn't none of Marse Jeff's Niggers run off to no North, but I heared of a Nigger what did
on de place whar my Pa was at. De only thing I knowed what might a made him run to de North
was dat Niggers thought if dey got dar dey would be in Heb'en. Dem patterollers was somepin'
else. I heared folkses say dey would beat de daylights mos' out of you if dey cotched you widout
no pass. Us lived on de big road, and I seed 'em passin' mos' anytime. I mos' know dere was
plenty trouble twixt de Niggers and de white folkses. Course I never heared tell of none, but
I'm sho' dere was trouble jus' de same," he slyly remarked.

"Marse Jeff wukked dem few Niggers so hard dat when dey got to deir cabins at night dey was
glad to jus' rest. Dey all knocked off f'um wuk Sadday at 12 o'clock. De 'omans washed, patched,
and cleaned up de cabins, and de mens wukked in dey own cotton patches what Marse Jeff give
'em. Some Niggers wouldn't have no cotton patch 'cause dey was too lazy to wuk. But dey was
all of 'em right dar Sadday nights when de frolickin' and dancin' was gwine on. On Sundays
dey laid 'round and slep'. Some went to church if dey wanted to. Marster give 'em a pass to
keep patterollers f'um beatin' 'em when dey went to church.

"Us chilluns was glad to see Chris'mas time come 'cause us had plenty to eat den; sich as hogshead,
backbones, a heap of cake, and a little candy. Us had apples what had been growed on de place
and stored away special for Chris'mas. Marse Jeff bought some lallahoe, dat was syrup, and
had big old pones of lightbread baked for us to sop it up wid. What us laked best 'bout Chris'mas
was de good old hunk of cheese dey give us den and de groundpeas. Don't you know what groundpeas
is? Dem's goobers (peanuts). Such a good time us did have, a-parchin' and a-eatin' dem groundpeas!
If dere was oranges us didn't git none. Marse Jeff give de grown folkses plenty of liquor and
dey got drunk and cut de buck whilst it lasted. New Year's Day was de time to git back to wuk.

"Marse Jeff was sich a pore man he didn't have no corn shuckin's on his place, but he let his
Niggers go off to 'em and he went along hisself. Dey had a big time a-hollerin' and singin'
and shuckin' corn. Atter de shuckin' was all done dere was plenty to eat and drink--nothin'
short 'bout dem corn shuckin's.

"When slaves got sick, dey didn't have no doctor dat I knowed 'bout. Miss Carrie done de doctorin'
herself. Snake root tea was good for colds and stomach mis'ries. Dey biled rabbit tobacco,
pine tops, and mullein together; tuk de tea and mixed it wid 'lasses; and give it to us for
diffunt ailments. If dey done dat now, folkses would live longer. Ma put asafiddy (asafetida)
sacks 'round our necks to keep off sickness.

"Ma said us was gwine to be free. Marse Jeff said us warn't, and he didn't tell us no diffunt
'til 'bout Chris'mas atter de War was done over wid in April. He told us dat us was free, but
he wanted us to stay on wid him, and didn't none of his Niggers leave him. Dey all wukked de
same as dey had before dey was sot free only he paid 'em wages atter de War.

"I 'members dem Yankees comin' down de big road a-stealin' as dey went 'long. Dey swapped deir
bags of bones for de white folkses good fat hosses. I never seed so many pore hosses at one
time in my life as dey had. Dem Yankees stole all da meat, chickens, and good bedclothes and
burnt down de houses. Dey done devilment aplenty as dey went 'long. I 'members Marse Jeff put
one of his colored mens on his hoss wid a coffeepot full of gold and sont him to de woods.
Atter dem Yankees went on he sont for him to fetch back de gold and de fine hoss what he done
saved f'um de sojer mens.

"I heared tell of dem Ku Kluxers, but I never seed 'em. Lawsy Miss! What did Niggers have to
buy land wid 'til atter dey wukked long enough for to make some money? Warn't no schoolin'
done 'round whar us lived. I was 10 years old 'fore I ever sot foots in a schoolhouse. De nearest
school was at Shady Grove.

"It was a long time atter de War 'fore I married. Us didn't have no weddin'; jus' got married.
My old 'oman had on a calico dress--I disremembers what color. She looked good to me though.
Us had 16 chilluns in all; four died. I got 22 grandchillun and one great grandchild. None
of 'em has jobs to brag 'bout; one of 'em larned to run a store.

"I think Mr. Lincoln was a great man, 'cause he sot us free. When I thinks back, it warn't
no good feelin' to be bound down lak dat. Mr. President Davis wanted us to stay bound down.
No Ma'am, I didn't lak dat Mr. Davis atter I knowed what he stood for. 'Course dere is plenty
what needs to be bound down hard and fast so dey won't git in no trouble. But for me I trys
to behave myself, and I sho' had ruther be free. I guess atter all it's best dat slavery days
is over. 'Bout dat Booker Washin'ton man, de Niggers what tuk him in said he done lots of good
for his race, and I reckon he did.

"Somepin' 'nother jus' made me jine de church. I wanted to do better'n what I was doin'. De
Lord says it's best for folkses to be 'ligious.

"No Ma'am, I don't 'spect to live as long as my Ma lived, 'cause dese legs of mine since I
done los' both of my footses wid blood pizen atter gangreen sot in, sho' gives me a passel
of trouble. But de Lord is good to me and no tellin' how long I'se gwine to stay here. Miss,
you sho' tuk me way back yonder, and I laks to talk 'bout it. Yes, Ma'am, dat's been a long
time back." Large holes in the roof can be plainly seen from the gateway. The neat yard, filled
with old-fashioned flowers, is enclosed by a makeshift fence of rusty wire sagging to the ground
in places, and the gate rocks on one hinge. There was some evidence that a porch had extended
across the front of the cottage, but it is entirely gone now and large rocks serve as steps
at the doorway.

Knocks and calls at the front of the house were unanswered and finally Robert was found working
in his garden behind the house. He is a tiny old man, and his large sun hat made him seem smaller
than he actually was. He wore a clean but faded blue shirt and shabby gray pants much too large
for him. His shoes, bound to his feet with strips of cloth, were so much too large that it
was all he could do to shuffle along. He removed his hat and revealed white hair that contrasted
with his black face, as he smiled in a friendly way. "Good morning, Missy! How is you?" was
his greeting. Despite his advanced age, he keeps his garden in excellent condition. Not a blade
of grass was to be seen. Asked how he managed to keep it worked so efficiently he proudly answered:
"Well Miss, I jus' wuks in it some evvy day dat comes 'cept Sundays and, when you keeps right
up wid it dat way, it ain't so hard. Jus' look 'round you! Don't you see I got de bestest beans
and squashes, 'round here, and down under dem 'tater vines, I kin tell you, dem roots is jus'
full of 'taters. My Old Marster done larnt me how to gyarden. He allus made us raise lots of
gyarden sass such as: beans, peas, roas'in' ears, collards, turnip greens, and ingons (onions).
For a fact, dere was jus' 'bout all de kinds of veg'tables us knowed anything 'bout dem days
right dar in our Marster's big old gyarden. Dere was big patches of 'taters, and in dem wheatfields
us growed enough to make bread for all de folks on dat dere plantation. Us sho' did have plenty
of mighty good somepin t'eat.

"I would ax you to come in and set down in my house to talk," he said, "but I don't 'spect
you could climb up dem dere rocks to my door, and dem's all de steps I got." When Robert called
to his daughter, who lived next door, and told her to bring out some chairs, she suggested
that the interview take place on her porch. "It's shady and cool on my porch," she said, "and
Pa's done been a-diggin' in his garden so long he's plum tuckered out; he needs to set down
and rest." After making her father comfortable, she drew up a bucket of water from the well
at the edge of the porch and, after he had indulged in a long drink of the fresh water, he
began his story.

"I was borned on Marster Joe Echols' plantation in Oglethorpe County, 'bout 10 miles from Lexin'ton,
Georgy. Mammy was Cynthia Echols 'fore she married up wid my daddy. He was Peyton Shepherd.
Atter Pappy and Mammy got married, Old Marse Shepherd sold Pappy to Marse Joe Echols so as
dey could stay together.

"Marse Joe, he had three plantations, but he didn't live on none of 'em. He lived in Lexin'ton.
He kept a overseer on each one of his plantations and dey had better be good to his Niggers,
or else Marse Joe would sho' git 'em 'way from dar. He never 'lowed 'em to wuk us too hard,
and in bad or real cold weather us didn't have to do no outside wuk 'cept evvyday chores what
had to be done, come rain or shine, lak milkin', tendin' de stock, fetchin' in wood, and things
lak dat. He seed dat us had plenty of good somepin t'eat and all de clothes us needed. Us was
lots better off in dem days dan us is now.

"Old Marster, he had so many Niggers dat he never knowed 'em all. One day he was a-ridin' 'long
towards one of his plantations and he met one of his slaves, named William. Marse Joe stopped
him and axed him who he was. William said: 'Why Marster, I'se your Nigger. Don't you know me?'
Den Marster, he jus' laughed and said: 'Well, hurry on home when you gits what you is gwine
atter.' He was in a good humor dat way most all de time. I kin see him now a-ridin' dat little
hoss of his'n what he called Button, and his little fice dog hoppin' 'long on three legs right
side of de hoss. No Ma'am, dere warn't nothin' de matter wid' dat little dog; walkin' on three
legs was jus' his way of gittin' 'round.

