Frail in health, her interest in a cause often exceeded the strength to work for it. This was
the apparent condition of things when the crusade with whirlwind power swept over the land.
A life-long advocate of total abstinence, her interest in the cause could not be restrained,
and gently her Heavenly Father led her in this work, first to a little gathering of temperance
women, at which, after much importunity, she conducted the exercises. Some months later she
became the chosen leader of these women. It was from this consecrated band, over the signature
of Mrs. Butler with others, that the call for the first state convention of temperance women
was made.

Who more appropriately than she could call that convention to order? And when the State League,
afterwards the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, was organized, it was no surprise that Mrs.
Allen Butler was elected president, a position she retained for five years. These were years
of anxiety but of great advancement in temperance. This was due not only to her thorough consecration
and marked executive ability, but to a life-long experience in other public enterprises, all
of which she brought to the temperance work.

She was present at Cleveland and assisted in organizing the National Woman's Christian Temperance
Union. Through feebleness of body she has been laid aside from active public work, but always
as a member of a local union has felt the heartbeat of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union
of New York State. At the "home-coming" in Syracuse in 1893, to celebrate our twentieth anniversary,
Mrs. Butler was present. A Chautauqua salute greeted her upon presentation. After looking over
the large gathering she solemnly said, "What hath God wrought?"

CHAPTER II.

CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS, WITH CHANGES.

The first constitution was adopted at Syracuse in October, 1874, but was somewhat modified
at the meeting held at Brooklyn in February, 1875, when the name was changed from the "Christian
Woman's State League" to "Woman's Christian Temperance Union of the State of New York."

The first constitution provided for four general officers, five vice-presidents, and an executive
committee of seven, all of whom were to be elected in such manner as might be determined from
time to time. A financial basis was established at this time by fixing the auxiliary fee at
twenty-five cents.

In 1878 a constitutional change was made reducing the number of vice-presidents to three, and
making the four general officers and three others elected for that especial purpose the executive
committee, these to be nominated in open convention and elected by ballot. The terms of auxiliaryship
were changed from the twenty-five cent per member basis to that of voluntary contributions
to the state treasury by the local unions.

In 1881 the electing of vice-presidents was discontinued, the presidents of organized counties
being made ex-officio vice-presidents of the state union. The basis of representation was fixed
at two delegates for each local union. The financial basis of twenty-five cents per member
was again established. In 1882 the auxiliary fee was unfortunately reduced to twenty cents
per member, which has greatly crippled the work since that time.

In 1883 a radical change was made in the formation of the executive committee. Since 1878 it
had been composed of the four general officers and three others elected by the convention.
In this year the executive committee was made to consist of the four general officers and the
presidents of county unions, who were ex-officio vice-presidents of the state union.

In 1885 the constitution was thoroughly revised. A first vice-president was added to the general
officers, and the time for the annual convention was fixed for the last week of September or
the first week of October. The manner of election was also changed, the nominations being made
by informal ballot. The basis of representation to the state convention was changed as follows
One delegate for every local union having fifty or less than fifty paying members, and one
for every additional fifty members. The time for election of officers was fixed for the morning
of the last day of the convention. A life membership fee of twenty-five dollars and an honorary
membership fee of five dollars annually were established, and have added greatly to the financial
prosperity of the work. A clause requiring a year's notice of proposed change to the constitution
was introduced.

The society was incorporated in 1876 under the first order of electing the executive committee.
As this method had been changed, in order to be legally entrenched for business purposes, in
1892 a change was made in the constitution, making the five general officers the managers or
trustees, in harmony with the society's articles of incorporation. A basis of representation
at the state convention and auxiliaryship for the Loyal Temperance Legion was also established,
viz: "One delegate for every thousand members of the Loyal Temperance Legion, such delegates
to be chosen from the superintendents of the Loyal Temperance Legion, and to be an adult member
of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. The basis of this representation shall be the payment
into the state treasury of one cent for every member of the legion."

In 1893 the last change was made, which resumed the auxiliary fee of twenty-five cents per
member, as established in the first constitution, as the basis of representation.

MRS. MARIA HYDE HIBBARD.

(SECOND PRESIDENT)

Maria Hyde was born in Oxford, Chenango County, New York, and was educated at the Oxford Academy,
now the oldest incorporated academy in this state, having in June last celebrated its centennial.
Born and reared in an eminently high spiritual and intellectual atmosphere, she was well qualified
for the positions which she filled so acceptably. She was preceptress in the Genesee Wesleyan
Seminary, at Lima, New York, associate principal of the Seneca Collegiate Institute, also of
the Binghamton Academy, and was afterward preceptress of Oxford Academy until her marriage
with Rev. F. G. Hibbard, D.D., of the Methodist Episcopal Church.

Mrs. Hibbard was elected president of the State Woman's Christian Temperance Union at Poughkeepsie
in 1879, which office she filled for three years, serving most faithfully and laying down the
work only because of the press of home duties. These years were years of peace and harmony,
and in giving of self to the cause she was also receiving a blessedness in return. It was during
these busy years that she organized temperance work among the Indians on the reservation in
Western New York. She has many gifts and graces, and has kept even pace with her husband (who
is the author of several theological works of standing authority) in both literary and spiritual
attainments, and "her gifts make room for her." She has been obliged to lay aside all public
work and devote herself to caring for her husband, whose ill health demands most of her time,
but she still gives her sympathies and her prayers to and for the Woman's Christian Temperance
Union--the workers and the work.

CHAPTER III.

ORGANIZATION.

   "In union there is strength"

At the first annual meeting, held at Ilion, a committee on organization of state was appointed,
consisting of Mrs. Dr. Kenyon, of Buffalo; Mrs. Dr. Clary, of Auburn; Mrs. O'Donnell, of Lowville;
Mrs. Truair and Miss Noble, of Syracuse. This committee formed plans, and organizers were appointed.
Miss Elizabeth Greenwood, of Brooklyn, was the first one who reported work done.

At this time those who did organizing work were called state agents. Miss Greenwood, in her
first report, suggested the change from state agent to state organizer, which suggestion was
acted upon and the name changed.

For the first few years organization was effected by congressional districts, but later on
this was changed to organization by counties, and has remained so up to the present time.

Department work was first taken up in 1878, six departments being considered. Those having
the work in charge were known as chairmen of standing committees. In 1880 this was changed
to the present name--superintendent of department.

In 1882 the manner of representation to the national convention was changed from congressional
districts to grouping of counties.

For a number of years organization was made the leading line of work, and in 1888 only three
counties remained unorganized. Many of our county workers did valiant service in the line of
organizing in their own localities, but the grand result reached in this year was due largely
to the untiring energy and activity of our state organizers. Mrs. Burt, in her annual address
for 1888, refers to their work in the following glowing words of commendation:

    But if our state excels, as I believe it does, in organization, it
    is largely due to the fact that our organizers are beyond
    comparison. Where will you find another Helen L. Bullock, or an E.
    M. J. Decker, or a Vandelia Varnum, or a Cynthia Jump, or Augusta
    Goodale, or such a list of county presidents, whom the record shows
    have made organizing their "chief concern" during the past twelve
    months? New York points with pride to these her daughters. They have
    not stopped to reason why, they have not stopped to make reply, but
    with a courage born of their high calling have gone steadfastly
    forward, and in many instances have snatched the palm of victory
    from the jaws of defeat.

While paying this tribute to our organizers we do not forget her who stood at the head of our
state work during these years, planning, directing, counseling, and encouraging. In Mary T.
Burt we have a living embodiment of "there's no such word as fail." For twelve years she has
led the white ribbon host of the Empire State, and if she can point with pride to these her
co-workers, saying, "Where will you find their equal?" we can point with pride to our state
president, and say, Where will you find her equal? Self has been forgotten, and with a courage
born of her convictions she has grandly carried forward the work, standing always for the best
interests of the state. And what is the result? In this year of 1894 there is not a county
in our state, except one, [3] but what has a branch of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union
within its borders.

[3] Hamilton County, a lumbering district with small population and few, if any, railroad facilities.

Owing to various circumstances and conditions, the work in one or two counties has at different
periods been suspended for a short time, usually to be taken up again with renewed vigor. Our
total membership is more than twenty-two thousand, with an honorary membership of nearly five
thousand.

In 1881 annual blanks were sent out for the first time, thus making it easier to secure correct
reports of membership and of work done.

At the first annual meeting a form of pledge was appended to the constitution recommended for
local societies, which read as follows:

   We, the undersigned women of ----, severally pledge ourselves in
   integrity and honor before God to abstain from the use of and from
   traffic in all intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and that we will not
   offer the same to others to be so used. And we further solemnly covenant
   before God henceforth to work and pray for the suppression of
   intemperance as a sin against God and man, and that in our work we will
   use such means and forward such measures as God shall direct through the
   Holy Spirit in answer to our prayer.

In 1879 the words "as a beverage" were omitted, and the above pledge, with this change, is
the one which is recommended to all local unions, and has stood so from 1879 until the present day.

JUVENILE WORK.

   "The door of millennial glory has a child's hand on the latch."
   MOTTO: "Tremble, King Alcohol! We shall grow up."

At the first meeting of the "State League," in 1874, one of the topics for discussion was,
"How can we work most effectually among the children?" showing that in the very beginning they
realized the fact that the hope of our final victory rests in the children, and the unions
were urged to organize juvenile unions and Bands of Hope. The following year an interesting
paper on juvenile work was read by Mrs. Bingham, of Rome, and a resolution adopted, which read:

    Resolved, That we urge upon our Sabbath-school superintendents the
    necessity of forming temperance organizations in every
    Sabbath-school, that the children be early pledged to total
    abstinence.

A form of constitution and by-laws for juvenile societies was recommended at this time, such
society to be auxiliary to the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. A form of pledge was also
recommended, as follows:

    We, the undersigned children and youth of ----, having been
    instructed that the continued use of intoxicating liquors injures
    the body and endangers the soul, believe that it is safest for us
    never to begin. We do therefore solemnly promise never to use or
    traffic in any whiskey, brandy, wine, beer, ale, or anything that
    can intoxicate, as a beverage, nor encourage others to do so; and we
    will not use it as a medicine, unless prescribed by our parents or
    our physician. May God help us to keep our pledge.

The pledge of to-day is the triple pledge against alcohol, tobacco, and profanity, and even
as early as 1875 we find a mention of this pledge as the one used by the children's society
of Ilion, which then numbered two hundred members. In 1875 Syracuse had a juvenile society
called Cold Water Templars, which had two thousand members, and Brooklyn reported a Band of
Hope with one thousand children pledged.

Carrying out the spirit of the suggestions and recommendations, children were organized under
various names--Band of Hope, Band of Blue, Cold Water Temple, Juvenile Union, etc.,--and the
work has been kept to the front during all these years, until now all juvenile societies connected
with the Woman's Christian Temperance Union are marching under one name--the Loyal Temperance
Legion.

In 1891 the president in her annual address referred to "that splendid child of ours, the Loyal
Temperance Legion," and suggested a plan whereby it might become auxiliary to the state, thereby
giving to the children a feeling of helpfulness and cooperation, and to the state an inspiration
which the representatives of twenty-five thousand children would be sure to give.

In accordance with this suggestion, originally made by Mrs. Helen Rice, national superintendent,
and Mrs. Harriet A. Metcalf, state superintendent, an organization was formed and called State
Loyal Temperance Legion. This is composed of three hundred and eighty-eight companies. The
year 1893 marks an era in Loyal Temperance Legion work, this being the year in which they began
paying dues to the State Woman's Christian Temperance Union, thereby being entitled to their
own delegate to the state convention.

The juvenile work of our state has received the very best thought of those having it in charge.
It was taken up as a department first in 1880, with Mrs. Frances D. Hall, of Plattsburg, as
superintendent. In 1881 Mrs. Dr. Foster, of Clifton Springs, was appointed, each of these serving
one year. In 1882 and 1883 Mrs. H. A. Perrigo, of Brockport, was the superintendent, and she
was succeeded by Mrs. Jennie M. Pierson, of Auburn, who held the office for two years. In 1886
Mrs. Perrigo was again appointed, and she has been the superintendent from that time until
now, with just a change of name from Perrigo to Metcalf. Two annual meetings have been held
since the organization of a State Loyal Temperance Legion--one at Syracuse and one at Cortland.
That the children might be rooted and grounded in the total abstinence faith, a thorough course
of study in the Lesson Manuals was prepared, and a plan evolved by which members of the legions
who passed the examinations should receive diplomas. One hundred and forty have graduated and
thirty-eight have won seals.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOUNG WOMAN'S WORK.

    "The future destiny of this nation must depend largely on the moral
    platform which young women occupy, and the height to which they
    elevate the standards of purity, temperance, and Christianity."

As an answer to the question asked at the meeting of 1874, "How can we arouse the young women
to think as they never have upon this subject?" Miss Willard was secured to address the young
women at the following convention, held at Ilion, and so marked was the effect upon her hearers
that a Young Ladies' Temperance Union was organized that afternoon, with Miss Jessie Remington,
of Ilion, as president.

In 1879 a standing committee for "Young Ladies' Societies" was appointed, with Mrs. Frances
Barnes as chairman. In 1880 this was changed to a department, and Mrs. S. R. Gray, of Albany,
made the superintendent. In 1882 Miss Mary McClees was made superintendent of this line of
work. In 1884 kitchen garden work was added, Miss Emilie Underhill having charge of the department.
During her years of service we find an addition to her name, that of Burgess having been added,
and as Emilie Underhill Burgess she continued as superintendent of the department until the
convention of 1887, kitchen garden work being dropped in the meantime.

She was succeeded by Mrs. C. J. A. Jump, of Albany, who holds the position at this time. The
work accomplished by this "faithful few" cannot be estimated, for who can measure the influence
of the young women who during all these years have been learning the lessons which should fit
them for better service in the Master's vineyard, and who during these years have answered
for themselves the question which opens this department of organization work?

In 1892 a change was made, taking this from the regular department work and making it the Young
Woman's Branch, with Mrs. Jump as secretary, and about fifteen hundred young women in our state
march under our white banner and demand "a white life for two."

MRS. MARY TOWNE BURT.

(OUR PRESIDENT)

Mrs. Mary Towne Burt, the third president of the New York State Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, has occupied that position now for twelve years. If antecedents and previous faithful
service are any indication of desert, then indeed she "came to the kingdom" worthily, and we
need not wonder that she holds her place easily, nor that the work flourishes abundantly under
her administration. Gifted with a fine presence, a pleasing address, and a well-balanced judgment,
she is a fitting leader for the largest state delegation in the national convention. It is
equally a pleasure to see her preside over our state convention of capable women, which often
outnumbers the national organization, if it does not have so wide-reaching an influence. Her
ability as a presiding officer has often been complimented by competent judges, and a quiet
confidence in the fairness and impartiality of her rulings pervades the atmosphere of the assemblage
and greatly aids the transaction of business, while many a pleasant little episode is graciously
received and made to facilitate the progress of the programme.

Born of English parentage in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, she was at the tender age of four
years bereft of the care of a cultured father, who had been educated for the clerical ranks
of the Church of England. Her mother, with whom she had a rare sympathy, was spared to an advanced
age to encourage every good work by her sympathy and prayers. Her youth was spent in Auburn,
New York, where she received rare educational advantages at Brown's Institute, and where in
1865 she was married to Edward Burt, of one of the oldest families in the state.

When her only child was yet a lad the crusade tocsin found her ready to respond, in accordance
with her own convictions and her mother's faithful teachings. She gave a public address in
the opera house at Auburn, and served for two years as the first president of the local union
in that place, and at the first meeting of the national union, at Cleveland, she was one of
the secretaries. In 1875 she was first the publisher and then the managing editor of the national
paper, Our Union, her home at this time being in Brooklyn. From 1878 to 1880 she was corresponding
secretary of the national union, with her office in the Bible House, New York City.

She has been identified with the New York State union since its inception. As its recording
secretary for the first seven years of its existence, she had much to do with shaping its aims
and its policy. After serving one year as corresponding secretary, she was elected president
in 1882, at the convention in Oswego. At that time the state union had a membership of about
three thousand, with but thirteen of the sixty counties organized. During the years of her
presidency all the remaining counties but one have been organized, and the membership has gone
up to twenty-two thousand. In her first annual address she recommended a change in the form
of the executive committee, substituting for the three previously elected by ballot, in addition
to the general officers, the vice-presidents of the state, who were the presidents of the county
unions. This changed the possible numbers of the executive committee from seven to sixty-four.
Other measures recommended by her have been the publication of a state paper, the opening of
state headquarters in New York City, securing permanent headquarters, putting up a building
on the permanent state fair grounds at Syracuse, creating the departments of Non-Alcoholics
in Medicine and Rescue Work for Girls, the memorializing of the Democratic and Republican parties
in behalf of prohibition and for the enfranchisement of woman, and petitioning the constitutional
convention of 1894 for the last two purposes.

For some years she has had charge of the legislative interests. In 1885-87 she was superintendent
of the Department of Social Purity, and at once entered upon a vigorous campaign to raise "the
age of consent" for young girls. In 1887 this effort was successful, the legislature raising
the age from ten years to sixteen years. In 1891-92 she led in the legislative work that resulted
in the closing of the New York State exhibit at the World's Fair on the Sabbath, and in the
passage of the bill prohibiting the employment of barmaids in saloons. She also led in the
protest against the excise bill which resulted in the modification of some of its worst features,
and in the protest against the infamous bill to legalize the social evil, preventing its introduction
into the legislature.

As an organizer she has been indefatigable. "Heat, cold, and wet and dry" were all equally
braved by her in the task of meeting the women of many a locality and explaining the methods
of this beneficent work, while her discriminating eye quickly selected those best fitted to
lead off to success. On all occasions she has fostered a love for sincere temperance work,
which has been of the greatest advantage to the stability and straightforwardness of the organization
in all parts of the state. She has presided at the organization of a large proportion of the
county unions. The personal acquaintance with the active members thus gained has greatly aided
her in the selection of superintendents and committees, so far as it falls to the lot of the
president to make such selections.

In other enterprises she has shown similar ability. The erection of a permanent building on
the state fair grounds at Syracuse is eminently suitable, in view of the fact that the Woman's
Christian Temperance Union had secured the passage in the state legislature of a law prohibiting
the sale of intoxicating liquors on the state and county fair grounds within its jurisdiction,
the carrying out of which policy has totally changed the character and conduct of agricultural
fairs in the Empire State. For several years Mrs. Burt has taken an active interest in the
Woman's Christian Temperance Union work at the state fair grounds at Syracuse, greatly to the
detriment of her health by overtaxing her physical strength. This course certainly gives the
workers an inspiration to undertakings they would never think of braving but for the courage
of their leader.

Of a similar character were the skill and dash that secured the Metropolitan Opera House for
the meeting of the national convention in 1888. It was said that "the women did it," but it
was done so quietly and literally by such rising betimes in the morning that very few know
that the skillful marshaling of the few available forces would after all have ended in failure
had it not been for the quick wit and personal responsibility of the head hostess of the occasion,
the president of the New York State Union.

For thirteen years Mrs. Burt served the state without salary, giving to its work the best her
life afforded freely and without price. With such leaders, under God, and with the true end
kept steadily in view, Christian women ought not to fail in their great temperance work. It
matters comparatively little with what branch of the evangelical church they are associated,
but we are persuaded that none of us will esteem our president less when knowing that she has
grown in trust and devoutness in this work while in the communion of the Protestant Episcopal
Church.

CHAPTER IV.

EDUCATIONAL.

  "My people perish for lack of knowledge."

The educational work of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union has been one of its prominent
sources of usefulness. The trend of so many departments has been along this line, that to enter
into the details of each would exceed the limit of this historical record.

  "Teach it to thy children."

In a memorial presented to the state legislature in 1877 appeared a clause asking that it be
made obligatory by law for all teachers to instruct their pupils in temperance. This was the
inception of the Scientific Temperance Instruction Department of the New York State Woman's
Christian Temperance Union.

This was made a regular department of work in 1880, with Mrs. Mary T. Burt as superintendent.
Mrs. E. H. Griffith, of Fairport, succeeded her the following year and laid some foundation
for the work. Miss Elizabeth W. Greenwood, of Brooklyn, then became superintendent, continuing
as such from 1882 to 1886, and to her must be accorded the honor of doing the hard work of
the department. Her preliminary work consisted in visiting and presenting the subject before
the various normal schools of the state. This aroused public interest and created a sentiment
which made the subsequent work comparatively easy. At the convention held at Poughkeepsie in
1883 it was decided to make the securing of a scientific temperance instruction law a leading
line of work for the ensuing year, and Mrs. Mary H. Hunt, of Boston, national superintendent,
was invited to assist the state superintendent in the campaign.

This was faithfully done. And what of the result? In spite of opposition and discouragement,
after six months of unparalleled labor came the greatest temperance victory the state had ever
gained--the passage of the scientific temperance education law. The money for carrying on this
expensive campaign was secured largely through the personal solicitation of Miss Greenwood
and the secretary of the department, Mrs. C. C. Alford, of Brooklyn.

After this law was enacted the state superintendent of public instruction delayed the introduction
of new text-books (which, if introduced, must remain five years) until the books then under
revision, and to be endorsed by the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, were ready. The first
books introduced were Professor Steele's "Hygiene and Physiology," Mrs. Hunt's "Hygiene for
Young People," and the "Child's Health Primer." Mrs. G. M. Gardenier, of Oswego, gave the first
public scientific temperance lesson after the passage of the law at Round Lake, July 5, 1884;
subject, "Alcohol and the Brain." This was during a series of meetings held under the auspices
of the state organization.

In 1886 Mrs. Marion S. Tifft, of Pine Valley, succeeded Miss Greenwood, serving two years.
In 1889 Mrs. Lytie Perkins Davies was made superintendent, faithfully performing the duties
and advancing the work until 1894.

In 1888 "Higher Education" was made a department of work, Mrs. Anna E. Rice and Miss Julia
E. Dailey each serving one year as superintendent, when the department was merged with that
of Scientific Temperance Instruction. "Commission of Inquiry and Statistics of the Liquor Traffic"
was made a department of state work in 1880, and continued until 1887. It had three superintendents--Mrs.
Horace Eaton, of Palmyra, who served one year; Mrs. A. G. Nichols, of Kingston, was her successor,
serving two years; and Mrs. A. T. Stewart, of Peekskill, who retained the superintendency four
years. Statistics are called dry, but these faithful women did not find them so. Mrs. Nichols
said in reference to her report of the department: "A wail as of a lost spirit goes surging
through it; moans of woe sound through it; tears and blood flow through it."

  "Touch not, taste not, handle not."

"Inducing Corporations and Employers to require Total Abstinence in their Employees" was the
name of the department as adopted in 1880--Mrs. Peter Stryker, of Saratoga, superintendent.
After two years of service she was succeeded by Mrs. V. A. Willard, of Belmont, who continued
the work for one year; then Mrs. Homer A. Nelson, of Poughkeepsie, was given the superintendency,
which she retained until 1887. The work of the department was then suspended for one year,
but resumed as "Capital and Labor"--Mrs. Nelson again the superintendent. In 1889 work among
railroad employees was added. In 1890 the name was again changed to "Temperance and Labor"--Mrs.
M. M. Van Benschoten, of Newark, superintendent. In 1891 Mrs. Ella A. Boole, of West New Brighton,
was made the superintendent, and has continued until the present. The department has wonderfully
developed through her influence.

"Influencing Physicians not to Prescribe Alcoholics in Medicine" was the original name of the
present Department of Non-Alcoholics in Medicine. This department was first adopted in 1883,
with Mrs. Rev. J. Butler, of Fairport, as superintendent. During her four years of service
the work was well organized. The "Physician's Pledge" was circulated, and much sentiment created
against alcoholic prescriptions. Mrs. E. G. Moore, of Medina, who succeeded her, secured the
presentation of the subject before medical associations. Susan A. Everett, M.D., of New York,
was superintendent for one year. In 1889 Mrs. M. M. Allen, of Bellona, was appointed superintendent,
a position occupied by her at the present time. Through her efficiency and zeal knowledge upon
the subject has increased until now the consensus of opinion is that alcoholic medicines are
unnecessary.

   "Visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children."

"Heredity," as the department now stands in our lines of work, is a scientific subject, and
should be studied as such. To accomplish this has been the aim of the superintendents having
the work in charge. This department was adopted in 1883, with Mrs. Mary E. Niles, of Hornellsville,
as superintendent. In the same year Elvira V. Ranier, M.D., of Oswego, was made superintendent
of "Hygiene," also a new department. In 1884 these departments were united, Mrs. Niles still
remaining superintendent. The next year Hygiene as a special work was discontinued. The Heredity
work remained in charge of its first superintendent until 1888, when Sarah Morris, M.D., of
Buffalo, had the work for one year. In 1889 the department of Health, which had been adopted
in 1886, with Mrs. Mary G. Underhill, of Poughkeepsie, as its superintendent, was united with
Heredity, and Gertrude G. Bishop, M.D., of Brooklyn, appointed superintendent. The following
year the Health Department was discontinued. Mrs. E. T. Howland, now Rev. Elizabeth T. Howland,
was appointed the superintendent of Heredity. She continued the work two years, and was succeeded
by Mrs. Ella B. Hallock, of Southold.

"Physical Culture," now "Physical Education," an evolution of the departments of Health and
Hygiene, was made a distinct department of work in 1890, with Mrs. Bertha Morris Smith, of
Elmira, as superintendent, a position she has retained until the present. Mrs. Smith is an
enthusiast in her department. The national leaflet, "A New Field for Educators," was written
by her in the interests of this department.

"The pen is mightier than the sword."

"The Press," or "Influencing the Press," as the department was first known, was adopted as
a department in 1880. Miss Margaret E. Winslow served as superintendent from 1880 to 1886,
with the exception of 1882, when Mrs. O. N. Fletcher, of Sherman, acted in that capacity. Miss
Abbie E. Hufstader, of Yorkshire Center, had the superintendency in 1887, and Miss S. J. Vosburg,
of Rochester, in 1888 and 1889. She was succeeded by Mrs. May Morgan McKoon, of Long Eddy,
who has prosecuted the work with vigor until the present time. Listen to the report echoes
of this department:

1882--"The press goes everywhere; let us then walk boldly and steadily into this ever-opening
door."

1892--"The greatest single force in society to-day is the press." "As a man readeth in his
newspaper, so is he." "Its utterances carry a dictum unequaled by that of either the pulpit
or bench." "It molds public opinion." "Use the press!"

    "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God? If any man defile the
    temple of God, him shall God destroy."

With this motto "Narcotics" was adopted as a department of State work in 1887, with Mrs. Helen
L. Bullock, of Elmira, as superintendent. She no sooner entered upon the work than measures
were inaugurated to secure a law prohibiting the use of tobacco by the young. In 1889 such
a law was passed. Were it rigidly enforced, fewer cases of insanity and less deaths would result
from excessive cigarette smoking. During her superintendency Mrs. Bullock wrote the national
leaflet, "The Tobacco Toboggan," and delivered her narcotic lecture, "Our Dangerous Inheritance,"
many times. In 1891-92 Mrs. E. G. Tiffany, of Dansville, was superintendent of the department.
In 1893 Mrs. Emma G. Dietrick, of Lockport, succeeded her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Franchise" was adopted as a department of state work in 1886, Miss Mary B. Cushman, of Lockport,
being the first superintendent. In 1888 Mrs. C. C. Ellerson, of New York City, succeeded her.
In 1891 Miss Vinnie R. Davis, of Orwell, was appointed superintendent, a position she still
retains. Miss Davis has brought to the work rare gifts and great earnestness. The department
has steadily advanced under her guidance. In the earlier years of the organization great conservatism
existed in regard to this subject. Resolutions adverse to its consideration by local and state
unions were passed in 1876 and 1878. Since its adoption as a department the president in her
annual addresses has continually sounded its keynote in utterances like these: "The ballot
in woman's hand is a first necessity toward the solution of not only this great question but
other moral reform questions of our day." "Justice and equity alike demand that the ballot
be given to women."

In 1893 two hundred thousand women registered in the state to vote for school officers. Upon
the eve of the election Judge Williams, of the supreme court, decided that such voting would
be unconstitutional; but in spite of the ruling over twenty thousand women did vote.

  "Let all things be done decently and in order."

"School of Methods and Parliamentary Usage" became a department of state work in 1890, and
has had but two superintendents--Miss Julia E. Dailey, of Rochester, who served one year, and
Mrs. Helen L. Bullock, of Elmira, who succeeded her.

  "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy"

The Department of Mercy was adopted in 1891, with Miss C. Augusta Goodale, of Newburgh, as
superintendent. The object of the department has been education along humane lines. Many children
have become interested, and numerous Bands of Mercy, inculcating the laws of kindness, have
been organized.

MRS. ELLA ALEXANDER BOOLE.

(FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT)

Ella, eldest daughter of Colonel Isaac N. and Rebecca Alban Alexander, was born at Van Wert,
Ohio. Although but a school-girl then, she was one of the original Ohio crusaders, and the
temperance zeal kindled at that time with her has never grown cold.

In 1874 she was graduated from the high school of her native place as valedictorian of the
class. Four years later she completed her college course at the University of Wooster, Ohio,
with a class of thirty-one, only three of whom were young women. This time she was salutatorian.
During the university course she captured the prize in an oratorical contest, being the only
lady among nine contestants. This was an earnest of the honor conferred upon her in 1888, when
she was invited to deliver the oration before the alumni association of her alma mater, the
first time in the history of the university that this honor had been conferred upon a woman.

After graduating from college and refusing many flattering positions, she became a teacher
of Latin, Greek, and higher mathematics in the high school of Van Wert, and in 1881 the degree
of Master of Arts was awarded her. As an educator she began her public work at teachers' institutes.

In 1883 she was married to Rev. Wm. H. Boole, D.D., pastor of the South Second street Methodist
Episcopal Church, Brooklyn, N.Y., and found a wide and congenial field of usefulness in this
new relation as a pastor's wife.

Mrs. Boole was elected corresponding secretary of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union of
New York State at the Cortland convention, in 1885, a position she filled with marked ability
for six years. In 1891 she was elected to the office of first vice-president, a position she
still retains. Mrs. Boole was chairman of the committee which prepared the handbook, which
has been invaluable to the workers of the state.

Since 1888 Dr. and Mrs. Boole have devoted their time wholly to temperance and evangelistic
work. No name is more familiar among temperance speakers than Mrs. Boole's, and no voice has
been heard in this state more frequently or with greater acceptance than hers. Her lectures
are a happy mingling of humor, pathos, and logic. They give no uncertain sound for total abstinence
and prohibition, and never fail to interest.

