"Wars fatten our tribe," answered the Devil; "besides shapes are optional with me, and in England
men go by appearances more than they do abroad; one is forced to look respectable and portly;
the Devil himself could not cheat your countrymen with a shabby exterior. Doubtless you observe
that all the swindlers, whose adventures enliven your journals, are dressed 'in the height
of fashion,' and enjoy 'a mild prepossessing demeanour.' Even the Cholera does not menace 'a
gentleman of the better ranks;' and no bodies are burked with a decent suit of clothes on their
backs. Wealth in all countries is the highest possible morality; but you carry the doctrine
to so great an excess, that you scarcely suffer the poor man to exist at all. If he take a
walk in the country, there's the Vagrant Act; and if he has not a penny to hire a cellar in
town, he's snapped up by a Burker, and sent off to the surgeons in a sack. It must be owned
that no country affords such warnings to the spendthrift. You are one great moral against the
getting rid of one's money."

On this, Asmodeus and myself had a long conversation; it ended in our dining together, (for
I found him a social fellow, and fond of a broil in a quiet way,) and adjourning in excellent
spirits, to the theatre.

"Certainly," said the Devil, taking a pinch of snuff, "certainly, your drama is wonderfully
fine, it is worthy of a civilized nation; formerly you were contented with choosing actors
among human kind, but what an improvement to go among the brute creation! think what a fine
idea to have a whole play turn upon the appearance of a broken-backed lion! And so you are
going to raise the drama by setting up a club; that's another exquisite notion! You hire a
great house in the neighbourhood of the theatre; you call it the Garrick Club. You allow actors
and patrons to mix themselves and their negus there after the play; and this you call a design
for exalting the drama. Certainly you English are a droll set; your expedients are admirable."

"My good Devil, any thing that brings actors and spectators together, that creates an esprit
de corps among all who cherish the drama, is not to be sneered at in that inconsiderate manner."

"I sneer! you mistake me; you have adduced a most convincing argument--esprit de corps!--good!
Your clubs certainly nourish sociality greatly; those little tables, with one sulky man before
one sulky chop--those hurried nods between acquaintances--that, monopoly of newspapers and
easy chairs--all exhibit to perfection the cementing faculties of a club. Then, too, it certainly
does an actor inestimable benefit to mix with lords and squires. Nothing more fits a man for
his profession, than living with people who know nothing about it. Only think what a poor actor
Kean is; you would have made him quite a different thing, if you had tied him to a tame gentlemen
in the 'Garrick Club'. He would have played 'Richard' in a much higher vein, I doubt not."

"Well," said I, "the stage is your affair at present, and doubtless you do right to reject
any innovation."

"Why, yes," quoth the Devil, looking round; "we have a very good female supply in this quarter.
But pray how comes it that the English are so candid in sin? Among all nations there is immorality
enough, Heaven knows; but you are so delightfully shameless: if a crime is committed here,
you can't let it 'waste its sweetness;' you thrust it into your papers forthwith; you stick
it up on your walls; you produce it at your theatres; you chat about it as an agreeable subject
of conversation; and then you cry out with a blush against the open profligacy abroad! This
is one of those amiable contradictions in human nature that charms me excessively. You fill
your theatres with ladies of pleasure--you fill your newspapers with naughty accounts--a robbery
is better to you than a feast--and a good fraud in the city will make you happy for a week;
and all this while you say: 'We are the people who send vice to Coventry, and teach the world
how to despise immorality.' Nay, if one man commits a murder, your newspapers kindly instruct
his associates how to murder in future, by a far safer method. A wretch kills a boy for the
surgeons, by holding his head under water; 'Silly dog!' cries the Morning Herald, 'why did
not he clap a sponge dipped in prussic acid to the boy's mouth?'"

Here we were interrupted by a slight noise in the next box, which a gentleman had just entered.
He was a tall man, with a handsome face and very prepossessing manner.

"That is an Author of considerable reputation," said my Devil, "quiet, though a man of wit,
and with a heart, though a man of the world. Talking of the drama, he once brought out a farce,
which had the good fortune to be damned. As great expectations had been formed of it, and the
author's name had transpired; the unsuccessful writer rose the next morning with a hissing
sound in his ears, and that leaning towards misanthropy, which you men always experience when
the world has the bad taste to mistake your merits. 'Thank Fate, however,' said the Author,
'it is damned thoroughly--it is off the stage--I cannot be hissed again--in a few days it will
be forgotten--meanwhile I will take a walk in the Park.' Scarce had the gentleman got into
the street, before, lo! at a butcher's shop blazed the 'very head and front of his offending.'
'Second night of its appearance, the admired Farce of ----, by ----, Esq.' Away posts the Author
to the Manager.--'Good Heavens! Sir, my farce again! was it not thoroughly damned last night?'--'Thoroughly
damned!' quoth the Manager, drily; 'we reproduce it, Sir--we reproduce it (with a knowing wink,)
that the world, enraged at our audacity, may come here to damn it again.' So it is, you see!
the love of money is the contempt of man: there's an aphorism for you! Let us turn to the stage.
What actresses you have!--certainly you English are a gallant nation; you are wonderfully polite
to come and see such horrible female performers! By the by, you observed when that young lady
came on the stage, how timidly she advanced, how frightened she seemed. 'What modesty!' cry
the audience; 'we must encourage her!' they clap, they shout, they pity the poor thing, they
cheer her into spirits. Would you believe that the hardest thing the Manager had to do with
her was to teach her that modesty. She wanted to walk on the stage like a grenadier, and it
required fifteen lessons to make her be ashamed of herself. It is in these things that the
stage mimics the world, rather behind the scenes than before!"

"Bless me, how Braham is improved!" cried a man with spectacles, behind me; "he acts now better
than he sings!"

"Is it not strange," said Asmodeus, "how long the germ of a quality may remain latent in the
human mind, and how completely you mortals are the creatures of culture? It was not till his
old age that Braham took lessons in acting; some three times a week has he of late wended his
way down, to the comedian of Chapel-street, to learn energy and counterfeit warmth; and the
best of it is, that the spectators will have it that an actor feels all he acts; as if human
nature, wicked as it is, could feel Richard the Third every other night. I remember, Mrs. Siddons
had a majestic manner of extending her arm as she left the stage. 'What grace!' said the world,
with tears in its eyes, 'what dignity! what a wonderful way of extending an arm! you see her
whole soul is in the part!' The arm was in reality stretched impatiently out for a pinch from
the snuff-box that was always in readiness behind the scenes."

It is my misfortune, Reader, to be rapidly bored. I cannot sit out a sermon, much less a play;
amusement is the most tedious of human pursuits.

"You are tired of this, surely," said I to the Devil; "let us go!"

"Whither?" said Asmodeus.

"Why, 'tis a starlit night, let us ride over to Paris, and sup, as you promised, at the Rocher
de Cancale."

"Volontiers."

Away--away--away--into the broad still Heavens, the stars dancing merrily above us, and the
mighty heart of the City beating beneath the dusky garment of Night below.

"Let us look down," said Asmodeus; "what a wilderness of houses! shall I uncover the roofs
for you, as I did for Don Cleofas; or rather, for it is an easier method, shall I touch your
eyes with my salve of penetration, and enable you to see at once through the wall?"

"You might as well do so; it is pleasant to feel the power, though at present I think it superfluous;
wherever I look, I can only see rogues and fools, with a stray honest man now and then, who
is probably in prison."

Asmodeus touched my eyes with a green salve, which he took out of an ivory box, and all at
once, my sight being directed towards a certain palace I beheld   *   *   *   *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

A clergyman preaching in the neighbourhood of Wapping, observing that most part of his audience
were in the seafaring way, very naturally embellished his discourse with several nautical tropes
and figures. Amongst other things, he advised them "to be ever on the watch, so that on whatsoever
tack the evil one should bear down on them, he might be crippled in action." "Ay, master,"
said a son of Neptune, "but let me tell you, that will depend upon your having the weather
gage of him."

       *       *       *       *       *

  A poacher escaping one morn with his pillage,
  Unexpectedly met with the lord of the village;
  Who seeing a hare o'er his shoulder was thrown,
  Hail'd him quickly, "You fellow is that hare your own."
  "My own!" he replied, "you inquisitive prig,
  Gad's curse, pompous sir, do you think I've a wig?"

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE PHRASE "TO BOOT."

Bote or Bota, in our old law books, signifies recompense, repentance, or fine paid by way of
expiation, and is derived from the Saxon. Hence our common phrase "to boot," speaking of something
given by way of compensation. P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD SONG.

  "Syr Tankarde he is as bold a wight
    As ever Old England bred;
  His armoure it is of the silver bright,
    And his coloure is ruby red;
      And whene'er on the bully ye calle,
      He is readye to give ye a falle;
  But if long in the battle with him ye be,
  Ye weaker are ye, and the stronger is he,
      For Syr Tankarde is victor of alle."

  "A barley-corn he mounts for a speare,
    His helmet with hops is hung,
  He lightes the eye with a laughing leere,
    With a carolle he tipps the tongue--
      And he marshals a valyant hoste
      Of spices and crabbes and toaste;
  And the stoutest of yeomen they well can o'erthrow,
  When he leads them in beakers and jugs to the foe,--
      And Syr Tankarde his prowess may boaste."

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH--ENGLISH LOVE.

The following is a copy of a letter addressed some years ago to a lady of fortune at Portsmouth,
upwards of four score years of age, by a French prisoner of war at Porchester Castle:--

"Porchester.--Madam--Me rite de English very leet, and me very fears you no saave vat me speak;
but me be told dat you vant one very fine man for your hosband; upon my soul me love you very
well; and thou you be very old woman, and very cross, and ugly, and all de devil, and the English
no like you, upon my soul we have one great passion for you, and me like you very well for
all dat; and me told dat de man for you must be one very clen man, and no love de drink. Me
be all dat: indeed me be one very grand man in France--upon my soul me be one count, me have
one grand equipage in France, and me be very good for de esprit: indeed me be one grand beau-a-la-mode--one
officier in de regiment: me be very good for de Engleterres. Indeed you be one very good old
woman upon my soul; and if you have one inclination for one man, me be dat gentleman for you--one
grand man for you. Me will be your hosband, and take de care for yourself, for de house, for
de gardin, for de Schoff, for de drink, and for de little childs dat shall come. Upon my soul
me kill myself very soon, if you no love me for this grand amour. Me be, madam, your great
slave, votre tres humble serviteur, PRES A. BOIRE."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD LONDON BRIDGE.

It is well known that Peter of Colechurch, the founder of Old London Bridge, did not live to
witness the completion of the structure, but died in 1205, and was buried in a crypt within
the centre pier of the bridge, over which a chapel was erected, dedicated to St. Thomas-à-Becket.
Mr. Brayley, in his Londiniana, wrote about five years since that "if due care be taken when
the old bridge is pulled down, the bones and ashes of its venerable architect may still be
found;"--and, true enough, the bones of old Peter were found on removing the pier about a fortnight
since.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAME LIONS.

Hanno, a Carthaginian, was the first who tamed a lion. He was condemned to death, for what
his fellow-citizens considered so great a crime. They asserted that the republic had to fear
the worst consequences from a man who had been able to subdue so much ferocity. A little more
experience, however, convinced them of the fallacy of that ridiculous judgment. The triumvir
Antony, accompanied by an actress, was publicly drawn by lions in a chariot.

SAD-USING.

       *       *       *       *       *

CITY OF LYONS.

Lyons is situated on a sort of peninsula, formed by the confluence of two great rivers--the
Rhone and the Laone. All the bridges, with the exception of one of stone, are of wood; and
although in general more useful than ornamental, they are justly admired for the boldness of
their construction. They form numerous and convenient communications between the city and the
faubourgs.

Lyons is walled round, and strongly fortified. In 1791 it contained 121,000 inhabitants; but,
in consequence of the siege of 1793, and the cruelties practised at that memorable period of
French history, the numbers were reduced to less than 80,000. In 1802, the numbers were 88,662;
and in 1827, the fixed population had increased to 97,439;--but there was a floating population,
estimated at 43,684, which, with the inmates of the barracks and hospitals, stated at 8,600,
made the total population at that period 149,723; and by adding the population of the suburbs,
reckoned at 36,000, the whole amount of the inhabitants at the period of the census, in 1827,
was 185,723; at the present time it is said to be, in round numbers, 200,000.

In 1828, the number of workshops in all branches of the silk trade within the walls, amounted
to 7,140; that of the silk frames or looms to 18,829; and from 10,000 to 12,000 in the communes.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ditty sung by the first grave-digger in Hamlet, beginning--

  "In youth, when I did love, did love"--

was written by Lord Vaux, an ancestor of Lord Brougham. It will be found entire in Percy's
Reliques.

       *       *       *       *       *

Number 527, price Twopence, A SUPPLEMENT, With a STEEL-PLATE PORTRAIT of His Present Majesty,
WILLIAM IV. AT FOURTEEN YEARS OF AGE. From a Picture by B. West, P.R.A. Anecdotic Memoir; and
Title-Page, Preface, and Index; completing VOL. XVIII.