Whiche is thus englished: Next to Franchise went a young bacheler, I knowe not howe he was
called, he was fayre and gentle, as yf he had byn sonne to the lorde of Windsore. Where in
olde frenche this word fuiz (vsed here as in manye places of that Booke) is placed for that
whiche we wryte and pronounce at this daye for filz or fitz, in Englishe sonne. and that it
is here so mente, you shall see in the Romante of the Roose turned into proese, moralized,
by the french Molinet, and printed at Paris in the yere 1521, who hathe the same verses in
these woordes in proese. A Franchise s’estoit prins vn ieune Bacheler de qui ne scay le nome,
fors bell, en son temps filz du seigneure de Guindesore. Whiche yo{u} mighte have well seene,
had you but remembered their orthographie, and that the latyne, Italiane, frenche, and spanyshe
have no doble w, as the Dutche, the Englishe, and such as haue affynytye with the Dutche, since
they vse for doble w (a letter comone to vs) these two letters Gu, as in Gulielmus, which we
wryte Willielmus; in guerra, which we call and writte warre, in Gualterus, which we write Walter;
in guardeine, which we pronounce and write wardeyne; and suche lyke; accordinge to whiche in
the frenche yt is Guindesore for Windesore. [Sidenote: Master Thynne knoweth not clearly why
the Baron should be called of Windsor.] for your other coniectures, whye that Chaucer sholde
inserte the loordes sonne of Windesore, they are of [{no}?] great momente, neque adhuc constat
that Chaucer translated the Romante, whene Windsore Castle was in buildinge. for then I suppose
that Chaucer was but yonge; whereof I will not stande at this tyme, no moore than I will that
there was no lord Windsore in those dayes; althoughe I suppose that sir William Windsore, being
then a worthye knighte and of great auctorytye in Englande and in the partes beyond the seas
under the kinge of Englande, mighte be lord Windsore, of whom the Frenche tooke notice, being
in those partes, and by them called seigneure de Windesore, as euery gouerno{r} was called
seigneure emongst them. But whether he were a Baron or no in Englande, I cannott yet saye,
because I haue not my booke of Somons of Barons to parliamente in my handes at this instante.

[Sidenote: The ordeal was not tryall by fier only, but also by water, nor for chastity only,
but for many other matters.] Fo: 171. pa: 2. by ordall, &c. Vppone whiche yo{u} write thus.
“Ordalia is a tryall of chastytye, throughe the fyre, as did Emma, mother of the Confessor,
or ells over hoote burnynge culters of yrone barefotte, as did Cunegunde, &c.” But in this
describinge definit{i}one, you have commytted manye imp{er}fect{i}ons. first, that ordell was
a tryall by fyre, w{hi}che is but a species of the ordell; for ordaliu{m} was a tryall by fyre
and water: secondlye, that yt was a tryall of Chastitye whiche was but parcell thereof; for
the ordale was a tryall for manye other matters. 17. Johīs, m. 25, vntill yt was taken awaye
by the courte of Rome; and after that, in Englande, by the auctorytye of kinge Henrye the thirde,
whereof you shall fynde this recorde in the towre Patente. 3. H. 3. mem. 5, where yt speakethe
of iudgmente and tryall by fyer and water to be forbydden by the Churche of Roome, and that
yt sholde not be vsed here in Englande; as apperethe in the woordes of that record: Illis vero
qui mediis criminibus vectati sunt, et quibus competeret iudiciu{m} ignis vel aquæ si non esset
prohibitum, et de quibus si regnum nostru{m} abiurarent, nulla fieret postea, maleficiendi
suspitio, regnu{m} nostru{m} abiurent &c.

[Sidenote: The stork bewrayeth not adultery but wreaketh the adultery of his owne mate.] Fo:
246. pa: 1. speaking of the storke, you saye that Chaucers woordes “wreaker of adulterye” shoulde
rather bee “bewrayer of Adulterye;” w{hi}che in truth accordinge to one propryetye of his nature
may be as you saye, but according to another propryetye of his nature, yt sholde be “the wreaker
of Adulterye,” as Chaucer hathe; for he ys a greater wreaker of the adulterye of his owne kynde
and female than the bewrayer of the adulterye of one other kynde, and of his hostesse one the
toppe of whose howse he harborethe. for Aristotle sayeth Bartholomeus de proprietatibus reru{m}
li: 12. cap. 8. with many other auctors, that yf the storke by any meanes perceve that his
female hath brooked spousehedde, he will no more dwell with her, but stryketh and so cruelly
beateth her, that he will not surcease vntill he hathe killed her yf he maye, to wreake and
revenge that adulterye.

These and suche lyke in my conceyte are worthye to be touched in your Annotac{i}ons, besides
other matters whiche you haue not handled; whereof (because tyme requirethe after all this
tedious treatyce to drawe to one ende) I will not now treate; but onlye speake a little moore
of fyve especiall thinges, woorthye the animadvers{i}one, of which the fyrste ys, [Sidenote:
The plowman’s tale is wrong placed.] that yo{u} make the Plowmans tale to go next before the
persons tale, suffering the persons corrupted prologue to passe with this begynnynge, “By that
the plowmanne had his tale ended,” when all written copies, (whiche I coulde yet see,) and
my fathers editione, haue yt, “By that the mancyple had his tale ended.” And because my father
colde not see by any Prologues of thee other tales, (whiche for the most parte shewe the dependancye
of one Tale vppone one other,) where to place the plowmans tale, he putt yt after the persons
tale, whiche, by Chaucers owne woordes, was the laste tale; as apperethe by the persons prologue,
where the hooste sayethe, that “euery manne had tolde his Tale before.” So that the plowmans
tale must be sett in some other place before the manciple and persons tale, and not as yt ys
in the last edit{i}one.

[Sidenote: Chaucer’s proper works should be distinguished from those adulterat and not his.]
One other thinge ys, that yt would be good that Chaucers proper woorkes were distinguyshed
from the adulterat and suche as were not his, as the Testamente of Cressyde, the Letter of
Cupide, and the ballade begynnynge “I have a ladye where so she bee,” &c. whiche Chaucer never
composed, as may sufficientlye be proved by the things themselves.

[Sidenote: There were three editions of Chaucer before William Thynne dedicated his to Henry
VIII.] The thirde matter ys, that in youre epistle dedicatorye to Sir Roberte Cecille, yo{u}
saye, “This Booke whene yt was first published in printe was dedicate to kinge Henrye the eighte.”
But that is not soo. for the firste dedicatione to that kinge was by my father, when diverse
of Chaucers woorkes had byn thrise printed before; whereof two editions were by Will{ia}m Caxtone,
the firste printer of Englande, who first printed Chaucers Tales in one columne in a ragged
letter, and after in one colume in a better order; and the thirde edit{i}one was printed, as
farre as I remember, by Winkin de Worde or Richarde Pynson, the seconde and thirde printers
of Englande, as I take them.[11] [Sidenote: The first editions being very corrupt, William
Thynne augmented and corrected them.] Whiche three edit[i]ons beinge verye unperfecte and corrupte
occasioned my father (for the love he oughte to Chaucers learnynge) to seeke the augmente and
correct{i}one of Chaucers Woorkes, w{hi}che he happily fynyshed; the same being, since that
tyme, by often printinge much corrupted. of this matter I sholde have spooken first of all,
because yt is the first imperfect{i}one of your paynfull and comendable labors: Yet because
the proverb ys better late than never, I hold yt better to speake of yt here then not at all.

    [Footnote 11: Caxton, 1475-1481-2. Wynkyn de Word,
    1495-1498.]

[Sidenote: Master Speight hath omytted many auctors vouched by Chaucer.] The fourthe thinge
ys, that, in the catalogue of the auctors, you haue omytted many auctors vouched by chaucer;
and therefore did rightlye intitle yt, moost, and not all, of the auctors cited by Geffrye Chaucer.

[Sidenote: It should be Harlottes, and not Haroldes.] The fyfte matter ys in the Romante of
the Roose, fo. 144, that the worde Haroldes in this verse,

  My kinge of Haroltes shalte thou bee,

must, by a mathesis or transpositione of the letters, be Harlotes, and not Haroltes, and the
verse thus,

  My kinge of Harlottes shalt thou bee

And so ys yt in the edit{i}one of Chaucer’s Works, printed in anno Domini 1542, accordinge
to the frenche moralizatione of Molinet, fo. All whiche, because yo{u} shall not thinke I dreame,
(though yt may seme strange to the ignorant to have so greate one officer intituled of suche
base p{er}sons as to be called kinge or gouernor of Ribauldes,) [Sidenote: Johannes Tyllius
maketh mention of a Rex Ribaldorum.] yo{u} shall here Joh{ann}es Tyllius (in his seconde booke
de rebus Gallicis vnder the title de Prefecto pretorio Regis) confirme in these woordes: In
domesticis regu{m} constitutionibus, quos proximo capite nominavimus, fit mentio Regis Ribaldorum,
officii domestici, quem semper oportet stare extra Portam pretorii, &c. and a litle after the
explanynge of their office, he addeth; “sic autem appellantur, quia iam tum homines perditi
Ribaldi, et Ribaldæ mulieres puellæq{ue} perditæ vocantur. Regis nomen superiori aut Iudici
tribuitur, Quemadmodu{m} magnus Cubicularius dicitur Rex Mercatorum,” &c. Where he maketh the
“Regem Ribaldoru{m}” an honorable officer for manye causes, [Sidenote: Also Vincentius Luparius
maketh him an honourable officer.] as Vincentius Luparius in his fyrste booke of the Magistrates
of france doth also, vnder the title of “Rex Ribaldoru{m} et prouostus Hospitii;” makinge the
Iudex pretorianus and this rex ribaldorum or provostus hospitii to seme all one, addinge further
(after manye other honorable partes belonginge to this office) that “meretricibus aulicis hospitia
assignare solebat.” In whiche pointe, bothe for orderinge and correctinge the harlottes and
evill persons followinge the Courte of Englande, (whiche is the duty of the marshall,) the
frenche and wee agree. Quæ, si iteru{m} inventa in Balliuâ suâ inveniatur, capiatur; et coram
seneschallo inhibea{n}tur ei hospitia Regis et Reginæ et liberoru{m} suorum, ne iteru{m} ingrediatur, &c.
And so afterwarde shewethe what shall be done to those women, yf they be founde agayne in the
Kinges courte, in suche sorte, that, as by Tillius, this Rex Ribaldorum his auctorytye was
over homines perditos, mulieres puellasq{ue} perditas. And that yt was, by Lupanus, to assigne
to Ribaldes lodginge out of the courte, (for so modestye willeth vs to vnderstande, because
they shoulde not offende and infecte the courte with their sighte and manners,) so ys yt our
Marshalls office, to banyshe those harlottes the courte, and bestowe them in some other place,
where they might be lesse annoyance. [Sidenote: Master Thynne being a herold liketh not that
false semblance should be thought one.] Wherefore I conclude w{i}th the frenche, and the former
edit{i}one of Chaucer in the yere of Christe 1542, that False Semblance was of righte to be
made kinge of Harlottes, and not of Haroldes, who wolde mightely be offended to haue them holden
of the conditions of false semblance. Nowe here be nugæ in the Romante of the Roose, I cannott
(as the proverb ys) take my hand from the table, (fyndinge go manye oversightes in the two
last editiones,) but must speake of one thing more, deserving correctione, in these woordes
of the Romante, fo. 116 of the last impress{i}one:

  Amide saw I hate stonde,
  That for wrathe and yre & onde
  Semed to be a minoresse;

[Sidenote: Hate was a Moueresse or stirrer of debate, not a minoresse.] Where this woorde Minoresse
shoulde be Moueresse, signyfyinge a mover or styrrer to debate, for these be the frenche verses
in the oldest written copye that euer was (to be founde in Englande, yf my coniecture fayle
me not,) by the age of the frenche wordes, which are these:

  Enz euz le milieu vi hayne,
  qui de courouz et datayn
  Sembla bien estre moueresse,
  et courouse et teucerresse.

Beinge thus englyshed, as of righte they oughte, accordinge to the frenche:

  Amyde sawe I hate stonde,
  That of wrathe and yre & onde
  Semed well to be mooveresse,
  An angry wighte and chyderesse.

[Sidenote: Molinet calleth Hate a Ducteress, or leader.] Whiche woord mooveresse the learned
molinet, in his moralizat{i}one of that Romant, dothe turne into Ducteresse, a leader or leadresse,
so that they agree yt shoulde not be a minoresse, but a mooveresse or leadresse of and to anger
and yre; anye of whose woordes will as well and rather better fytt the sence and verse of Chaucer,
and better answere the Frenche originall and meanynge, than the incerted woorde Minoresse.

Thus hooping that yo{u} will accepte in good and frendlye parte, these my whatsoever conceytes
vttered vnto you, (to the ende Chawcers Woorkes by much conference and many iudgmentes mighte
at leng[t]he obteyne their true p{er}fect{i}one and glory, as I truste they shall, yf yt please
godde to lend me tyme and leysure to reprinte, correcte, and comente the same after the manner
of the Italians who have largely comented Petrarche;) I sett end to these matters; comyttinge
yo{u} to god, and me to your curtesye.

  Clerkenwell Greene,
  the xvi of december 1599.
  Your lovinge frende,
  FRANCIS THYNNE.

INDEX.

  Abandone, p. 33.
  Absalom, whether he coughed or knocked, p. 42.
  Aketon, a sleeveless jacket of plate for the war, p. 24.
  Arcite, his intellect, p. 40.
  Authentic, a thing of authority, p. 33.

  Bath, Wife of, her Prologue, p. 44.
  Begyns, superstitious women, p. 29.
  Besant, a coin of Bizantium, p. 25.
  Burgersh, Bartholomew de, sent into Henault for Philippa, p. 12.
  Burgo, Serlo de, built Knaresborough Castle, p. 18.

  Cambuscan, or Caius, Cause, p. 43.
  Campaneus, reading of, p. 34.
  Chaucer, MSS., collection made by William Thynne, p. 5.
  Chaucer, MSS., dispersed by his son, p. 8.
  Chaucer’s parentage, p. 9.
  Chaucer and the Franciscan friar, p. 16.
  Chaucer’s marriage, p. 17.
  Chaucer’s coat-of-arms, p. 10.
  Chaucer’s children, p. 17.
  Chaucer, his education, p. 13.
  Chaucer, his skyll in Geometrye, p. 11.
  Chaucer, his ancestors, whether merchants of the staple or no,
      pp. 12, 13.
  Chaucer, the stemme of, p. 17.
  Chaucer, his children and their advancement, p. 17.
  Chaucer, Thomas, married to Maude, daughter of Sir John Burgersh,
      p. 18.
  Chaucer, his dream, not the book of the Duchess, pp. 22, 23.
  Chaucer, early editions of, p. 56.
  Chausier, one who hoseth or booteth a man, p. 9.
  Citrination, a term of Alchemy, p. 30.
  Colin Clout, written in William Thynne’s house at Erith, p. 7.

  Drida, Queen, slayeth Kenelm, p. 47.

  Fermentacione, a term of Alchemy, p. 25.
  Florius, concerning, p. 35.
  Forage, winter provision, p. 30.

  Garland, oken of Emelye, p. 37.
  Gaunt, John of, his children born pre-nupt, p. 17.
  Gaunt, John of, his incontinency, p. 23.
  Gaunt, John of, his marriage, p. 23.
  Gower, query whether of the
  Gowers of Stittenham, p. 14.
  Gower, his greeting to Chaucer, p. 13.

  Harlottes, King of, p. 57.
  Heroner, a hawk for a heron, p. 31.
  Hyppe, the berye of the eglantine, p. 31.

  John of France, his ransome, p. 36.

