THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THE RIGHT OF THE GOVERNMENT UNDER THE WAR POWER

By William Lloyd Garrison and Others

EMANCIPATION UNDER THE WAR POWER.

Extracts from the speech of John Quincy Adams, delivered in the U.S. House of Representatives,
April 14 and 15, 1842, on War with Great Britain and Mexico:--

What I say is involuntary, because the subject has been brought into the House from another
quarter, as the gentleman himself admits. I would leave that institution to the exclusive consideration
and management of the States more peculiarly interested in it, just as long as they can keep
within their own bounds. So far, I admit that Congress has no power to meddle with it. As long
as they do not step out of their own bounds, and do not put the question to the people of the
United States, whose peace, welfare and happiness are all at stake, so long I will agree to
leave them to themselves. But when a member from a free State brings forward certain resolutions,
for which, instead of reasoning to disprove his positions, you vote a censure upon him, and
that without hearing, it is quite another affair. At the time this was done, I said that, as
far as I could understand the resolutions proposed by the gentleman from Ohio, (Mr. Giddings,)
there were some of them for which I was ready to vote, and some which I must vote against;
and I will now tell this House, my constituents, and the world of mankind, that the resolution
against which I would have voted was that in which he declares that what are called the slave
States have the exclusive right of consultation on the subject of slavery. For that resolution
I never would vote, because I believe that it is not just, and does not contain constitutional
doctrine. I believe that, so long as the slave States are able to sustain their institutions
without going abroad or calling upon other parts of the Union to aid them or act on the subject,
so long I will consent never to interfere. I have said this, and I repeat it; but if they come
to the free States, and say to them, you must help us to keep down our slaves, you must aid
us in an insurrection and a civil war, then I say that with that call comes a full and plenary
power to this House and to the Senate over the whole subject. It is a war power. I say it is
a war power, and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a
war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on, according
to the laws of war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal
institutions swept by the board, and martial law takes the place of them. This power in Congress
has, perhaps, never been called into exercise under the present Constitution of the United
States. But when the laws of war are in force, what, I ask, is one of those laws? Nor is this
a mere theoretic statement. The history of South America shows that the doctrine has been carried
into practical execution within the last thirty years. Slavery was abolished in Columbia, first,
by the Spanish General Morillo, and, secondly, by the American General Bolivar. It was abolished
by virtue of a military command given at the head of the army, and its abolition continues
to be law to this day. It was abolished by the laws of war, and not by municipal enactments;
the power was exercised by military commanders, under instructions, of course, from their respective
Governments. And here I recur again to the example of Gen. Jackson. What are you now about
in Congress? You are about passing a grant to refund to Gen. Jackson the amount of a certain
fine imposed upon him by a Judge, under the laws of the State of Louisiana. You are going to
refund him the money, with interest; and this you are going to do because the imposition of
the fine was unjust. And why was it unjust? Because Gen. Jackson was acting under the laws
of war, and because the moment you place a military commander in a district which is the theatre
of war, the laws of war apply to that district.

I might furnish a thousand proofs to show that the pretensions of gentlemen to the sanctity
of their municipal institutions under a state of actual invasion and of actual war, whether
servile, civil or foreign, is wholly unfounded, and that the laws of war do, in all such cases,
take the precedence. I have given here more in detail a principle which I have asserted on
this floor before now, and of which I have no more doubt than that you, sir, occupy that chair.
I give it in its development, in order that any gentleman from any part of the Union may, if
he thinks proper, deny the truth of the position, and may maintain his denial; not by indignation,
not by passion and fury, but by sound and sober reasoning from the laws of nations and the
laws of war. And if my position can be answered and refuted, I shall receive the refutation
with pleasure; I shall be glad to listen to reason, aside, as I say, from indignation and passion.
And if, by the force of reasoning, my understanding can be convinced, I here pledge myself
to recant what I have asserted.

Let my position be answered; let me be told, let my constituents be told, the people of my
State be told--a State whose soil tolerates not the foot of a slave--that they are bound by
the Constitution to a long and toilsome march under burning summer suns and a deadly Southern
clime for the suppression of a servile war; that they are bound to leave their bodies to rot
upon the sands of Carolina, to leave their wives widows and their children orphans; that those
who cannot march are bound to pour out their treasures while their sons or brothers are pouring
out their blood to suppress a servile, combined with a civil or a foreign war, and yet that
there exists no power beyond the limits of the slave State where such war is raging to emancipate
the slaves. I say, let this be proved--I am open to conviction; but till that conviction comes,
I put it forth not as a dictate of feeling, but as a settled maxim of the laws of nations,
that, in such a case, the military supersedes the civil power; and on this account I should
have been obliged to vote, as I have said, against one of the resolutions of my excellent friend
from Ohio, (Mr. Giddings,) or should at least have required that it be amended in conformity
with the Constitution of the United States.

THE WAR POWER OVER SLAVERY.

We published, not long ago, an extract from a speech delivered by John Quincy Adams in Congress
in 1842, in which that eminent statesman confidently announced the doctrine, that in a state
of war, civil or servile, in the Southern States, Congress has full and plenary power over
the whole subject of slavery; martial law takes the place of civil laws and municipal institutions,
slavery among the rest, and "not only the President of the United States, but the Commander
of the Army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."

Mr. Adams was, in 1842, under the ban of the slaveholders, who were trying to censure him or
expel him from the House for presenting a petition in favor of the dissolution of the Union.
Lest it may be thought that the doctrine announced at this time was thrown out hastily and
offensively, and for the purpose of annoying and aggravating his enemies, and without due consideration,
it may be worth while to show that six years previous, in May, 1836, Mr. Adams held the same
opinions, and announced them as plainly as in 1842. Indeed, it is quite likely that this earlier
announcement of these views was the cause of the secret hostility to the ex-President, which
broke out so rancorously in 1842. We have before us a speech by Mr. Adams, on the joint resolution
for distributing rations to the distressed fugitives from Indian hostilities in the States
of Alabama and Georgia, delivered in the House of Representatives, May 25, 1836, and published
at the office of the National Intelligencer. We quote from it the following classification
of the powers of Congress and the Executive:--

"There are, then, Mr. Chairman, in the authority of Congress and of the Executive, two classes
of powers, altogether different in their nature, and often incompatible with each other--the
war power and the peace power. The peace power is limited by regulations and restricted by
provisions prescribed within the Constitution itself. The war power is limited only by the
laws and usages of nations. This power is tremendous: it is strictly constitutional, but it
breaks down every barrier so anxiously erected for the protection of liberty, of property,
and of life. This, sir, is the power which authorizes you to pass the resolution now before
you, and, in my opinion, no other."

After an interruption, Mr. Adams returned to this subject, and went on to say:--

"There are, indeed, powers of peace conferred upon Congress which also come within the scope
and jurisdiction of the laws of nations, such as the negotiation of treaties of amity and commerce,
the interchange of public ministers and consuls, and all the personal and social intercourse
between the individual inhabitants of the United States and foreign nations, and the Indian
tribes, which require the interposition of any law. The existing law prohibiting the importation
of slaves into the United States from foreign countries is itself an interference with the
institution of slavery in the States. It was so considered by the founders of the Constitution
of the United States, in which it was stipulated that Congress should not interfere, in that
way, with the institution, prior to the year 1808.

"During the late war with Great Britain, the military and naval commanders of that nation issued
proclamations, inviting the slaves to repair to their standard, with promises of freedom and
of settlement in some of the British colonial establishments. This surely was an interference
with the institution of slavery in the States. By the treaty of peace, Great Britain stipulated
to evacuate all the forts and places in the United States, without carrying away any slaves.
If the Government of the United States had no power to interfere, in any way, with the institution
of slavery in the States, they would not have had the authority to require this stipulation.
It is well known that this engagement was not fulfilled by the British naval and military commanders;
that, on the contrary, they did carry away all the slaves whom they had induced to join them,
and that the British Government inflexibly refused to restore any of them to their masters;
that a claim of indemnity was consequently instituted in behalf of the owners of the slaves,
and was successfully maintained. All that series of transactions was an interference by Congress
with the institution of slavery in the States in one way--in the way of protection and support.
It was by the institution of slavery alone that the restitution of slaves, enticed by proclamations
into the British service, could be claimed as property. But for the institution of slavery,
the British commanders could neither have allured them to their standard, nor restored them
otherwise than as liberated prisoners of war. But for the institution of slavery, there could
have been no stipulation that they should not be carried away as property, nor any claim of
indemnity for the violation of that engagement."

