NO. 8.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.

Sir,--In Dr. Maitland's able vindication of the Dark Ages (p. 419. 1st ed.), he concludes his
interesting extract from the scribe Otloh's account of himself by saying:--"One would like
to know what books they were which Otlohnus thus multiplied; but this, perhaps, is now impossible."
I have it accidentally in my power to identify two at least of the number; and if it was his
universal practice to subscribe his name, as he does in these instances, a search into the
principal repositories of MSS. would, no doubt, give a large list. A valuable MS. volume in
my possession has been thus described by a learned Benedictine: "Codex Membranaceus constans
foliis 223 numerando; sæculis ix. desinente, x. et xi. incipiente, variis manibus scriptus,
per partes qui in unum collectus, ex scriptis variis natidæ scripturæ carlovingicæ, varia continens:
1° Vita et Passio, seu Martirium S. Dionisii; scripta fuit ab Hilduino Abbate Coenobii S. Dionisii
in Francia sub Ludovico Pio." It is said that Hilduinus was the first writer who gave the marvellous
story of the saint carrying his own head in his hand for nearly two miles after his decapitation.
But he tells us that he abridged his narration ex Græcam et Latinorum Historiis.

2° Revelatio facta S. Stephano Papæ de consecratione altaris SS. Petri et Pauli ante Sepulchrum
S. Martirii Dionisii quæ consecratio facta fuit v. kal. Aug. 754. This part of the MS. is remarkable
for containing in one place the date written in Roman ciphers, thus--dccLiiii. v. kl. aug.;
a circumstance so rare in MSS. of this age, as to have astonished the learned diplomatists
Papebroch and Germon.

3° Historia S. Simeonis Trevirensis Solitarii. Of whom it is recorded that he lived sub Poppone
Episcopo Trevirense, in quædam cellula ad portam nigram sitâ. At fol. 36. an interesting account
of the death of the saint is given by the author, who was present, and with the assistance
of two other monks, piously performed his obsequies. It appears that the abbey of S. Maximin
was about 120 paces from the cell of the saint at Treves, and it is therefore most probable
that the writer was a monk of the Benedictine order then belonging to that foundation; but
he puts his name out of doubt by the following couplet, inscribed at the end of the narrative:--

  "Presbiter et monachus OTLOH quidam vocitatus
  Sancte tibi librum BONIFACII tradidit istum."

This dedication of his labours to S. Boniface may only indicate his veneration for the national
saint; but, as he tells us he worked a great deal in the monastery at Fulda (of which S. Boniface
was the patron saint and founder), may not this have been one of his labours there? At a subsequent
period, it appears, he revised and amplified Wilibald's Life of Boniface.

I must summarily indicate the other contents of this interesting MS., which are: 4. Passio
SS Sebastiani et Vincentii. 5. Vita S. Burchardi. 6. Vita et Passio S. Kiliani (genere Scoti).
7. Vita S. Sole. 8. Vita S. Ciri. 9. Depositio S. Satiri. 10. Alphabetum Græcum. 11. Officio
pro Choro cum notis musicis, pro festo S. Pancratii; sequitur ipsiis martiriis passio. 12.
Vita S. Columbani [this is anonymous, but is attributed to his disciple Jonas, and contains
much valuable historical matter]. Lastly, 13. Vita S. Wolfgangi, by the hand of our interesting
scribe OTLOH, written at the instance of the Benedictine Coenobites of his monastery of S.
Emmeram, at Ratisbon, where the saint was buried. This, as in the case of the Life of S. Boniface,
is a rifaccimento; it was made from two older lives of S. Wolfgang, as Otloh himself tells
us, one of them by a certain monk named Arnolfus, the other having been brought out of France.
He is here, therefore, more an author than a scribe; but he declares modestly that it was a
task he would willingly avoid for the future. The passage of his Preface is worth transcribing:
"Fratrum quorundam nostrorum hortatu sedulo infimus ego, O coenobitarum S. Emmerammi compulsus
sum S. Wolfgangi vitam in libellulis duobus dissimili interdum, et impolita materie descriptam
in unum colligere, et aliquantulum sublimiori modo corrigere.... Multa etiam quæ in libro neutro
inveniebantur, fidelium quorundam attestatione compertâ addere studui, sicque quædam addendo,
quædam vero fastidiose vel inepte dicta excerpendo, pluraque etiam corrigendo, sed et capitularia
præponendo. Vobis O fratres mei exactoresque hujus rei prout ingenioli mei parvitas permisit
obedivi. Jam rogo cessate plus tale quid exigere a me."

We have here sufficient evidence that Otloh was a worthy predecessor of the distinguished Benedictines
to whom the world of letters has been so deeply indebted in more recent times.

Dr. Maitland's mention of the calligraphic labours of the nun Diemudis, Otloh's contemporary,
is not a solitary instance: in all ages, the world has been indebted to the pious zeal of these
recluse females for the multiplication of books of devotion and devout instruction. An instance,
of so late a date as the eve of the invention of printing, now lies before me, in a thick volume,
most beautifully written by fair hands that must have been long practised in the art. As the
colophon at the end preserves the names of the ladies, and records that the parchment was charitably
furnished by their spiritual father, I think it worth transcribing:--

     "Expliciunt, Deo laus omnipotente, quinque libri de VITA &
     CONVERSATIONE SANCTORVM PATRVM Scripti per manibus Sororum AUE
     TRICI et GHEEZE YSENOUDI in festivus diebus suis consororibus
     dilectis in memoriam earum. Finiti ano dni M° CCCC° XLIX° in festo
     decollationis Sci Johannis baptiste ante sumam missam. Et habebant
     ad hoc pergamenum sibi ex caritate provisum de venerabi li
     presbitero Dno NICOLAO WYT tunc temporis earundem patre spirituali
     & sibi ipsiis spiritualiter ac in Dno sat reverenter dilectio. Ex
     caritativo amore sitis propter Deum memores eorum cum uno AVE
     MARIA."

I omitted to mention that Massmann, in his Kleinen Sprachdenkmale des VIII. bis XII. Jahrhunderts,
Leipsig, 1830, p. 50, says: "The Benedictine priest Otloh, of Regensburg, left behind him a
work, De Ammonicione Clericorum et Laicorum, in which is twice given a Latin prayer (Cod. Monacens.
Emmeram. f. cxiii. mbr. sæc. xi.), at fol. 51. d., as Oratio ejus qui et suprascripta et sequentia
edidit dicta, and at fol. 158. as Oratio cuidam peccatoris." On fol. 161. b. is an old German
version, first printed by Pez (Thes. i. 417.), corrected by Graff. Diutiska, 111. 211., by
Massmann, at p. 168. Otloh mentions in this prayer the destruction of his monastery of St.
Emmeram, which took place in 1062.

I have advisedly called him Otloh, and not Otlohnus.

S. W. SINGER.

Mickleham, Dec. 10. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON.

No. 1. "Gerrard Street, Soho. * * * At the Turk's Head, in Gerrard Street, Johnson and Sir
Joshua Reynolds founded, in the year 1764, 'The Literary Club.'"

It would appear from the following extracts in my Common-place Book, that the original Turk's
Head, at which the Literary Club first held their meetings, was in Greek Street, Soho, not
in Gerrard Street:--

     "The Literary Club was first held at the Turk's Head in Greek
     Street, which tavern was almost half a century since removed to
     Gerrard Street, where it continued nearly as long as the house was
     kept open."--European Mag. Jan. 1803.

     "The Turk's Head, in Gerrard Street, Soho, was, more than fifty
     years since, removed from a tavern of the same sign the corner of
     Greek and Compton Streets. This place was a kind of head-quarters
     for the Loyal Association during the rebellion of 1745."--Moser's
     Memorandum Book, MS. dated 1799.

No. 2. Storey's Gate, Birdcage Walk, St. James's Park.--I have seen it stated, but do not recollect
where, that "Storey's" was a house of public entertainment. "Webb's," mentioned in the following
extracts, was also a place of a similar description:--

     "April 25. 1682.--About nine, this night, it began to lighten,
     thunder, and rain. The next morning, there was the greatest flood
     in St. James's Park ever remembered. It came round about the
     fences, and up to the gravel walks--people could not walk to
     Webb's and Storie's.

     "April 3, 1685.--This afternoon nine or ten houses were burned or
     blown up, that looked into S. James's Park, between Webb's and
     Storie's."--Diary of Phillip Madox, MS. formerly in the
     possession of Thorpe the bookseller.

No. 3. Capel Court.--So named from Sir William Capell, draper, Lord Mayor in 1503, whose mansion
stood on the site of the present Stock Exchange.--Pennant's Common-place Book.

No. 4. Bloomsbury Market.--This market, built by the Duke of Bedford, was opened in March,
1730. Query, was there a market on the site before?--Ibid.

No. 5. Bartlet's Buildings.--Mackeril's Quaker Coffee-house, frequently mentioned at the beginning
of the last century, was in these buildings.--Ibid.

No. 6. St. Olave's, Crutched Friars.--Names of various persons who have occupied houses in
this parish: Lady Sydney, 1586--Lady Walsingham, 1590--Lady Essex, 1594--Lord Lumley, 1594--Viscount
Sudbury, 1629--Philip Lord Herbert, 1646--Dr. Gibbon, 1653--Sir R. Ford, 1653--Lord Brounker,
1673--Sir Cloudesley Shovel, 1700--Extracts from the Registers made by the Rev. H. Goodhall, 1818.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

WIVES OF ECCLESIASTICS.

In reply to your correspondent's query as to the "wives of ecclesiastics," I find amongst my
notes one to this effect:--

     ERROR, to assume in ancient genealogies that a branch is
     necessarily extinct, simply because the last known representative
     is described as "Clericus," and ergo, must have died S.P.L.

It will be obvious to many of your readers that Clericus is nomen generale for all such as
were learned in the arts of reading and writing, and whom the old law deemed capable of claiming
benefit of clergy,--a benefit not confined to those in orders, if the ordinary's deputy standing
by could say "legit ut clericus."

The title of Clericus, then, in earlier times as now, belonged not only to those in the holy
ministry of the Church, and to whom more strictly applied the term Clergy, either regular or
secular, but to those as well who by their function or course of life practised their pens
in any court or otherwise, as Clerk of the King's Wardrobe, Clerks of the Exchequer, &c. Though
in former times clerks of this description were frequently in holy orders and held benefices,
it must be evident that they were not all so of necessity; and the instances are so numerous
where persons having the title of "Clericus" appear nevertheless to have been in the married
state, and to have discharged functions incompatible with the service of the Church, that the
assertion will not be denied that the restrictions as to contracting matrimonial alliances
did not extend to clerks not in holy orders or below the grade of subdiaconus. The Registrum
Brevium furnishes a precedent of a writ, "De clerico infra sacros ordines constituto non eligendo
in officium." This distinction alone would prove that other clerks were not ineligible to office.
The various decrees of the Church may be cited to show that the prohibition to marry did not
include all clerks generally. Pope Gregory VII., in a synod held in 1074, "interdixit clericis,
maxime divino ministerio consecratis uxores habere, vel cum mulicribus habitare, nisi quas
Nicena Synodus vel alii canones exceperunt."

The statutes made by Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas, Archbishop elect of York, and
all the other bishops of England, in 1108, in presence of King Henry I., and with the assent
of his barons, confine the interdiction respecting marriages to Presbyteri, Diaconi et Subdiaconi,
and a provision is made by them for those cases where marriages had been contracted since the
interdict at the Council of London (that probably in 1103), viz. that such should be precluded
thereafter from celebrating mass, if they persist in retaining their wives. "Illi vero presbyteri,
diaconi, subdiaconi, qui post interdictum Londoniensis Concilii foeminas suas tenuerunt vel
alins duxcrunt, si amplius missam celebrare voluerint, eas a se omnino sic facient alienas,
ut nec illae in domos eorum, nec ipsi in domos earum intrent.... Illi autem presbyteri qui
divini altaris et sacrorum ordinum contemptores praelegerint cum mulicribus habitare a divino
officio remoti, omnique ecclesiastico beneficio privati, extra chorum ponantur, infames pronunciati.
Qui vero rebellis et contemptor foeminam non reliquerit, et missam celebrare presumpserit,
vocatus ad satisfactionem si neglexerit, viiij. die excommunicetur. Eadem sententia archidiaconos
et cononicos omnes complectitur, et de mulieribus relinquendis et de vitanda carum conversatione,
et de districtione censurae si statuta transgressi fuerint.... Presbyteri vero qui relictis
mulieribus, Deo et sacris altaribus servire elegerint, xl. dies ab officio cessantes, pro se
interim vicarios habebunt, injuncta eis poenitentia secundum hoc quod episcopis corum visum
fuerit." In 1138 the penalty for priests marrying was deprivation of their benefices, and exclusion
from the celebration of divine service:--"Sanctorum patrum vestigiis inhaerentes, presbyteros,
diaconos, subdiaconos uxoratos, aut concubinarios, ecclesiasticis officiis et beneficiis privamus,
ac ne quis eorum missam audire praesumat Apostolica auctoriate prohibemus."

Many such decrees have been made at various synods and councils holden for reformation of the
clergy, but I can find none wherein marriage is interdicted to clerks generally. I will refer
to one more only, viz. that made in the Council of London, held at Westminster in 1175. Here
it will be seen most distinctly that the prohibition against entering the marriage state was
confined expressly to Clerici in sacris ordinibus constituti, and that is was not only lawful
for clerks below the grade of subdeacon to marry, but that having subsequently once entered
the marriage state and being subsequently desirous ad religionem transire, and to continue
in the service of the Church, they could not do so and be separated from their wives unless
de communi consensu; if they continued, however, to live with their wives, they could not hold
an ecclesiastical benefice: "Si quis sacerdos vel clericus in sacris ordinibus constitutus,
ecclesiam vel ecclesiasticum beneficium habens publice fornicarium habeat," &c.... "Si qui
vero infra subdiaconatum constituti matrimonia contraxerint, ab uxoribus sius nisi de communi
consensu ad religionem transire voluerint, et ibi in Dei servitio vigilanter permanere, nullatenus
separentur: sed cum uxoribus viventes, ecclesiastica benficia nullo modo percipiant. Qui autem
in subdiaconatu, vel supra, ad matrimonia convolaverint, mulieres etiam invitas et renitentes
relinquant."

This it will be seen that the title "Clericus" under some circumstances, affords no certain
indication that a lawful marriage may not have been contracted by the person so described and
consequently that he might not have prolem legitimam.

W.H.

It does not follow that William de Bolton was an ecclesiastic because he was called Clericus;
that designation being, even in that early time, often used in a lay sense.

I have just come across an instance of a prior date. In the Liberate Roll of 26 Henry III.
the king directs a payment to be made "to Isabella, the wife of our beloved clerk, Robert of
Canterbury, to purchase a robe for our use." Even in the reign of Richard I. it may be doubtful
whether the term was not used with both meanings; for in the charter of Walter Mapes, granting
certain lands, among the witnesses are "Rogero, capellano, Willelmo, capellano, Thoma, clerico
meo, Waltero, clerico, Jacobo, clerico, Bricio, fermario meo."

[Symbol: Phi]

     [In addition to the information afforded by the preceding
     communications "A SUBSCRIBER" will find much curious illustration
     of this subject in Beveridge's Discourses on the Thirty-Nine
     Articles, where he treats of the Thirty-second article "On the
     Marriage of Priests."

     He must however consult the edition printed at the Oxford
     University Press in 1840, which contains for the first time
     Beveridge's Discourses on the last Nine Articles.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TOWER ROYAL.

Sir,--In your second number I find a query by Mr. Cunningham, respecting the origin of the
name of Tower Royal; although I cannot satisfactorily explain it, I enclose a few notes relative
to the early history of that place, which may, perhaps, afford a clue to its derivation.

In early records it is invariably called "la Real," "la Reole," "la Riole," or "la Ryal or
Ryole;" and it is described simply as a "tenement;" I have never found an instance of its being
called a "tower". At the close of the reign of Henry III. it was held by one Thomas Bat, citizen
of London, who demised it to Master Simon of Beauvais, surgeon to Edward I.; this grant was
confirmed by that sovereign by charter in 1277. (Rot. Cart. 5 Edw. I. m. 17.--Placita de Quo
Warranto, p. 461.) This Simon of Beauvais figures in Stow and Pennant as Simon de Beawmes.
In 1331 Edward III. granted "la Real" to his consort Philippa, for the term of her life, that
is might be used as a depository for her wardrobe. (Rot. Pat. 4 Edw. III. 2nd part, m. 15.)
By Queen Philippa it was extensively repaired, if not rebuilt, and the particulars of the works
executed there by her direction, may be seen in the Wardrobe Account of the sixth year of her
reign, preserved in the Cottonian MS. Galba E iii. fo. 177, et seq.; this account is erroneously
attributed in the catalogue to Eleanor, consort of Edward I. One Maria de Beauvais, probably
a descendant of Master Simon, received compensation for quitting a tenement which she held
at the time Philippa's operations commenced. In 1365 Edward III. granted to Robert de Corby,
in fee, "one tenement in the street of la Ryole, London" to hold by the accustomed services.
Finally, in 1370 Edward gave the "inn (hospitium) with its appurtenances called le Reole, in
the city of London," to the canons of St. Stephen's, Westminster, as of the yearly value of
20l. (Rot. Pat. 43 Edw. III. m. 24.)

It is sufficiently clear that in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries this place was not
called Tower Royal; nor does there appear to be any ground for supposing it was so named in
earlier times, or, indeed, that it was ever occupied by royalty before it became Philippa's
wardrobe. The question, therefore is narrowed to this point:--what is the significance of "la
Real, Reole, or Riole?" I should be glad if any of your correspondents would give their opinions
on the subject. I may add, that the building was in the parish of St. Thomas Apostle, not in
that of St. Michael Pater Noster Church, as Stow wrote. (Rot. Pat. 4 Edw. III. 2nd part, m. 38.)

T.H.T

