In Brazil the slave trade received an impetus as a result of royal restrictions and Jesuits'
opposition to the enslavement of Indians, thereby compelling the more law-abiding and docile
settlers to turn from exploiting the native labor and to seek its labor supply from Africa.[3]
The labor demands of the great sugar plantations, cotton fields, tobacco lands, and later the
mines, kept the slave poachers on the Guinea and Angola Coast busy, so that by the middle of
the eighteenth century slaves were entering Brazil on a vast scale. From 1759 to 1803, according
to Keller, the colonial registers give as consigned from Angola to Brazil 642,000 Negroes.
Thus, by 1800 fully one half of the total Brazilian population of 3,200,000 was slave, and
by 1818 there were 1,930,000 slaves besides some 526,000 free Negroes and mulattoes, in all
about sixty-three per cent of the total.[4] By the middle of the nineteenth century there was
something like three millions of slaves out of a population of seven and a half millions. Lord
Palmerston estimated the total number of slaves in the sixties as being 3,000,000;[5] whereas
a writer in the "Revue des deux Mondes" puts the number between 2,500,000 and 4,000,000.[6]
Dawson quotes the number of slaves in 1856 as being approximately 2,500,000 or forty per cent
of the total population.[7] Apparently there is no actual census available on the number of
slaves for this period. Needless to say, the slaves easily comprised from forty to fifty per
cent of the population, and if we add all those of mixed blood we have a majority of the inhabitants
of Brazil.

Now let us turn to the Old South. Slavery we know progressed somewhat in the southern colonies,
and to a negligible extent in the New England colonies. The "Asiento" in 1713, by which Great
Britain at the close of the War of Spanish Succession secured the right to supply the colonies
of Spain with 4,800 slaves annually,[8] augmented the slave trade throughout the new world.
Negroes were in demand in the rice areas, cotton fields, and tobacco plantations. In 1710 there
were only 50,000 slaves in the United States, the number increased to 220,000 in 1750, to 464,000
in 1770,[9] until by the year 1790 they numbered 697,624.[10] This number constituted one-fifth
of our total population.

Slavery, however, was not a venerated institution in the Southland in the eighteenth century.
In fact, it was rather supported through the force of habit and the fear of the results of
emancipation. Then came Eli Whitney's invention of the cotton gin. The South went cotton mad.
The United States now became the world's producer of raw cotton. Henceforth, slavery was held
"the indispensable economic instrument of southern society."[11]

In the first half of the nineteenth century, then, American slavery was at its height. By 1850
the slaves numbered 3,204,313, about a few thousand less than Brazil, which at the opening
of the century had so far led it in the number of slaves held.[12] Blake, writing in 1857,
shows that by the last census, however, unlike Brazil, the proportion of black to white was
not great, being in the neighborhood of fourteen per cent. However, taking the nation in sections,
the ratio of black to white in the South was one to two, whereas in the North it was but one
to sixty-eight.[13]

As to the extent of slavery in the two nations, in the United States slavery was largely confined
to the semi-tropical country south of the Pennsylvania-Maryland line and the Ohio River. A
slight form of domestic slavery had existed in New England, and to a greater degree in the
Middle Atlantic Colonies, but was virtually unknown in the mines and cattle ranges of the West.
In Brazil slavery existed practically everywhere the Europeans settled. There was no geographical
section, whose sentiment and economic interests were antagonistic to slave holding. However,
it was true that about the plantations of Pernambuco and Bahia slavery existed on a far more
extensive scale than in the southern province of Rio Grande De Sul, where slavery was practised
at a minimum.

In both the United States and Brazil there were diversified products of slave labor. In Brazil
sugar was the great slave labor staple; in America, cotton. Besides cotton, the American slave
was the cultivator of tobacco, rice, sugar, hemp, and molasses. In Brazil the other products
were tobacco, cotton, and cattle, in addition to some cacao and rubber.

In the United States there were two types of slavery, one the storied domestic slavery of the
towns, and the southern country seat, where the Negro was usually benevolently treated and
loved as though one of the family. This type of slavery was most common along the Mason-Dixon
line. The other type was determined by the large scale enterprises in the cotton and rice fields
in the "southern" South, where absentee ownership was often the rule. Here frequently masters
knew little about their slaves, and the driving of the mobs of laborers gave Harriet Beecher
Stowe, no doubt, her concept of a Simon Legree.[14] In Brazil slaves did every type of work.
First of all, they furnished the labor for the great sugar plantations of Pernambuco and also
the cotton districts of the north. In the provinces of the south of Brazil, contrary to conditions
in the United States, they were employed on cattle ranches. In Minas Geraes they were utilized
in the mines. In the cities they carried on all the manual and menial work.

Henderson tells us of his observations of the African in urban occupations during the first
decade of the last century in Rio. He relates that owners would send out slaves to do work
for other employers, and to turn over their wages to their idle masters. He relates that masters
sent slaves in pairs and threes, bearing baskets on their heads, soliciting work. This type
was called "Negroes de ganho." Others bore great tubs on their heads with which they drew water
from fountains to supply the inhabitants. At dusk the street was crowded with slaves carrying
the refuse of the city to the dumps. Slave labor removed the imported goods from the docks.
Few had the help of wagons. The English had tried to introduce carts to help the toiling slaves
at the wharves, but the custom house clerks would have none of them, as they were making a
"haul" on the city by hiring out their slaves, and wagons would lessen the amount of work to
be done.[15]

In the United States slaves were owned by planters and private individuals exclusively. In
Brazil besides the planter class, large plantations were owned by such religious orders as
the Benedictine and Carmelite friars, who treated their slaves with the greatest regard for
comfort and ease.[16] Furthermore, there were slaves belonging to the government. As late as
the outbreak of the American Civil War, the annual report of the Brazilian minister of finance
shows more than 1,500 government slaves.[17] One thing in favor of Brazil, however, was that
the horrible shortcomings of absentee ownership on large plantations did not exist to any extent,
since most of the proprietors resided on their own respective estates.[18]

Summing up the general condition of the Negro slave in both lands, we notice that (1) Brazilian
slavery antedated and postulated American slavery; (2) that there were a larger number of slaves
and a greater proportion to the total population in Brazil than in America; (3) that Brazilian
slavery received its impetus through the cutting off of the native labor supply and the growth
of sugar cultivation; whereas American slavery was stimulated by the invention of the cotton
gin; (4) that in both countries slaves were engaged in diversified occupations, except that
in Brazil besides agriculture and domestic pursuits, slaves were employed in almost every variety
of unskilled and semi-skilled labor; (5) that in Brazil slavery was homogeneously distributed
rather than in sectional patches; and (6), finally, that both the state and religious bodies
owned slaves in Brazil.

THE SOCIAL SIDE OF SLAVERY

The living conditions of the Negroes in both the United States and Brazil varied in relation
to the type of work. Domestic slaves in the former were generally treated well in the households
of their masters. In Brazil the domestic slave was usually a Creole.[19] But our interest centers
largely on the manner by which the agricultural slave lived, for after all, in him lies the
crux to the whole problem. In both Brazil and America slaves were quartered on the great plantations
in rude huts. Their diet was simple. Corn meal, bacon, and sweet potatoes were chief items
in the diet of the American slave. In Brazil the slave was fed farina (the flour of the mandioca
root), salt fish or salt meat, sometimes bacon, and in the mining districts corn flour. In
both countries the slave was rudely clad. In Brazil his outfit consisted of a shirt and pants
of cotton and a straw hat.[20]

In the United States slaves on the large plantations began work at sunrise, and toiled to the
crack of the whip on the great plantations until sundown. Women and children, only half grown,
were compelled to do their share in the fields. In Brazil conditions generally were easier
for the slave. The Portuguese planter was perhaps less anxious to "drive" the work out of his
bondsmen than the more enterprising Anglo-Saxon. Accordingly, we are told that at three in
the afternoon, at least at Pernambuco, the heart of the sugar belt, work ceased, and the slave
had the remainder of the day to himself, time which many slaves employed in cultivating a private
plot of their own, hoping some day to earn enough thereby to purchase their freedom. They,
like their northern brothers, were supervised in the field by a "feitor" or taskmaster, usually
white, though frequently a Creole, mulatto, freedman, or even in cases, another slave.[22]

Slaves in America welcomed Sundays and the days around Christmas as periods of rest and recreation.[23]
In Brazil not only did the slaves have Sundays and Christmas, but something like over thirty
holidays on the Catholic calendar. Incidentally, showing there was still a breath of humanity
in a stifling age of oppression, it is declared in the "Correio Braziliense" for December,
1815, on page 738, that although the Portuguese had ceased to stop work on many of these holidays,
the thirty-five holidays were still enforced as days of cessation of labor in Brazil in order
that the slaves might still enjoy the days of rest.[24]

The Negro slave in Africa, according to DuBois, lived generally a polygamous family life. When
he came to the Southern Colonies his whole family life was made irregular and unhappy, due
to the evil conditions of slavery there. The slave might marry on the plantation, but the very
next day he might be sold, and separated from his wife and parents. The auction block is the
foulest stain on the whole parasitic institution of slavery in the United States. In Brazil
the sale of slaves from one master to another apparently was never as extensive as in our own
country.[25] Moreover, the sanctity of marriage was far more highly regarded in Brazil than
in the United States. A slave, who wished to be married had first to learn the requisite number
of prayers; he must understand the confession, and receive the sacraments. Then, having received
the consent of the master, he was married by the vicar. A slave might marry a freeman. If the
husband were free and the wife slave, the child of the union was a slave; vice versa, a slave
father and free mother produced a free child.[26]

In language, we find in both the Old South and Brazil, that the Africans soon forgot their
native dialects, and adopted the tongue of their new home, and their language did not materially
influence that of their masters in America.

Religion was a vital factor in slave life. In the Old South, religion was at first discouraged
among the slaves. There was a reason for this, for masters knew that nowhere in Christian teachings
were there provisions for enslaving Christians.[27] Never was religion encouraged to a great
degree. In fact, as late as 1831, Virginia passed a measure, declaring that neither free nor
slave Negro might "preach, exhort, or teach in any Negro assemblage." Nevertheless, religious
sentiment waxed ever stronger. Beginning with the taboos of the deported tribal priest, and
gradually becoming influenced by Christianity, the great Negro Church[28] grew. Sometimes the
Negroes were allowed to worship under the same roof as their white superiors,[29] but they
usually had to steal away to some secret place for this purpose. In Brazil, however, Christianization
of the slaves was an essential. Before the Negroes in Angola (Portuguese West Africa) embarked
on the slave vessel for Brazil, they were baptized "en masse." Arriving in the new world, they
were branded with the crown, which proved that they had been baptized and that the king's duty
on them had been paid. Next, they had to learn the doctrines of the Church and the duties of
the religion they were about to embrace. Slaves from the other parts of Africa were Christianized
after a year following arrival, during which time they had to learn certain prayers.[30] Most
interesting is the existence among the Brazilian slaves of their own religious brotherhoods,
to join which was the ambition of every Negro slave. These brotherhoods had their own versions
of the Virgin Mary and Our Lady of the Rosary had her hands and face painted black.[31]

SLAVE RIGHTS

Properly speaking, a true slave has no legal rights. Perhaps the words privileges and permits
are happier. At any rate, the obligations and restrictions in the Old South were far more stringent
than those on the plantations and urban districts of Brazil. Privileges and restrictions for
slaves in the South varied according to the laws of the States; whereas in Brazil the centralized
colonial government tended to unify what slavery legislation there was.

In both countries, theoretically, a master was liable for indiscriminately killing his slaves
or for practising cruelty. To be sure, the penalty was slight for so great an offense, but
public opinion in Brazil, especially, more than once pointed its finger at the brutal master.
In practice, even the slightest defense of a maltreated slave was rarely heard before the magistrates,
for no slave in the case of the South could bear witness against a white. In Brazil the ouvidor
of the province was the one to punish the cruel master, but then, who would dare report?[32]
In Brazil, if a slave was unruly he was to be turned over to state authorities, and duly given
a public punishment.[33]

In the Old South it was possible under certain circumstances for the slave to buy his own freedom,
that is, if the master was kindly disposed. In Brazil, it is commonly affirmed that the master
was obliged to free his slave if the latter could furnish a sum equivalent to his market price.[34]
As a matter of practice, it was easy for the master to deny freedom to his slave under such
conditions, and the slave for lack of strength would have to accept the outcome meekly. Furthermore,
Christie, British envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary in Brazil during the period
of the American Civil War, in a letter to Earl Russell in June, 1861, declares that no such
law actually exists on the statute books of Brazil, as that the slave has the right to appear
before a magistrate, have his price fixed and to purchase his freedom.[35]

Moreover, the Brazilian slave exercised some right to change masters. The master set a price
upon his slave. Then the slave with a note, declaring the master's intentions, might seek out
some neighboring planter with a good reputation, and if the desired new master decided to pay
the price set, the old master, according to Luccock,[36] was obliged to sell the slave. In
practice the plan did not work out so well, because one planter did not care to interfere in
the other's affairs, and often the evaluation of the slave could not be agreed upon.[37]

A slave could be and was manumitted in both the United States and Brazil. In Brazil manumission
could be accomplished in the following ways: (1) the slave could purchase himself; (2) his
master could liberate him during his life; (3) or he could manumit him at his death; (4) a
Negro woman who had brought ten children into the world by virtue of her tenth became free;
(5) also, the price of a new-born babe was so slight, that often the infant was purchased its
freedom by friends.[38] In fact, manumission had been so extensive, that by 1818 mulattoes
and free Negroes had become a considerable part of the population.[39] In the United States
there were 488,070 freedmen in 1860.[40]

As for holding common ordinary citizen's rights, the Negro slave in both countries was out
of consideration. In the Old South, for instance, a slave could be arrested, tried, and condemned
with but one witness against him, and without a jury.[41] In Brazil he was equally as defenceless.
Professional slave runaway catchers might pounce upon a slave who was about his duty, imprison
him, subject him to indignities, on the ground that he was a fugitive, and return him to his
master, claiming money for their trouble. In such a sad case, no one would take the slave's
part, none would believe his story.[42]

The privileges of the slave as to being secure against violent treatment, of securing his own
freedom, of selecting another master, or of claiming any plain citizen's immunities whatsoever,
then, were very slight in both Brazil and the United States, but even more so in our own Southland.

SLAVE RESISTANCE

Docile as the African slave was, he was bound at times to attempt to free himself from the
drudgery and sufferings of his lot. Naturally the most direct, impulsive, and simple method
was escape. Hence, we are brought to compare the fugitive slave problem in Brazil to the same
problem in the United States.

In our own country the South had to combat an effective force which did not exist in Brazil,
namely, the antagonism of an Anti-slavery North, which aided the Negroes by "underground railroads"
to escape to free territory, or to cross the Canadian line, where slavery was prohibited. The
Dismal Swamp in Virginia, and the Everglades of Florida were favorite hiding places for fugitives.[43]
In Brazil the universal prevalence of slavery and the lack of opposition to the practice by
any considerable group up to the last days of its existence gave the fleeing slave few friends.
However, there was a trackless wilderness to which he might flee. Especially qualified runaway
slave catchers were employed to trail such fugitives.

The other method of resisting the institution of slavery was by organized risings. Riots and
local revolts occurred occasionally in the Old South, but were never serious and were easily
quelled. The most noteworthy revolts of blacks in America were actually mere spouts. In the
first half of the eighteenth century, for example, New York was thrown into hysteria at the
rumors of a threatened Negro plot,[44] out of which nothing materialized. Gabriel's riot planned
in Richmond, Virginia, in 1800, ended very much like that in New York. Another incident was
the attempt in 1822 of a certain Negro, Denmark Vesey, to start an insurrection at Charleston,
which utterly failed. Nat Turner, a religious fanatic, was the cause of the most serious uprising
of all. In 1831 he organized a revolt in Virginia which cost the lives of several score of
whites before it was quelled.[45] The other spontaneous turn of the worm was the Amistad incident,[46]
in which Negroes of the slave ship Amistad rose and took possession of the ship, and ordered
the crew to guide her back to Africa. Instead, the crew steered the vessel into a hospitable
harbor, thus baffling its captors. The rising of the slaves of the Creole in somewhat the same
manner was more romantic.

All these pin pricks in the South are now to be contrasted to a series of serious organized
risings of slaves in Brazil, eruptions which at times threatened the political control or integrity
of a whole district or province. In the United States the slave placidly submitted. In Brazil
he was at periods actually class conscious.

In Pernambuco, the Brazilian government was actually challenged by slave rebels. It was during
the chaotic days of 1630-1654, when the Dutch were in occupation of Pernambuco, and the Brazilians
were at war with them, that hundreds of slaves fled to the interior, where they established
an independent state, consisting of a cluster of fortified villages. Establishing a rude form
of administration and a primitive adaptation of Christianity, they actually governed themselves.
After the Dutch had been fairly well beaten, the whites turned to make war upon the villages.
For fifty years the villages held out, until in 1697, Palmares, the last and most important
of the fortresses, capitulated.[47]

Bahia lived in a perpetual fear of Negro uprising, and well were her fears grounded, for here
the Negro was most assertive against his mistreatment. The population of Bahia in the first
decade of the nineteenth century is estimated by Henderson as being in the neighborhood of
110,000, two thirds of which was slave. Once let the slave get a start and with such odds in
his favor the masters had best beware. For this reason, slaves were prevented as much as possible
from organizing. No bondman might go on the streets of Bahia after evening vespers, save with
a pass from his master.[48] Yet the slaves did at times organize. In 1808, when John VI, the
Portuguese king, arrived in Bahia, the slaves boldly communicated with him, asking that the
punishment of one hundred and fifty lashes be abolished.[49]

A short time after this episode, matters came to a culmination. As was usual at holiday time,
slaves congregated in plazas, chose a chief for the day, to whom they did homage. This was
a customary feat, tolerated by the authorities of the city. On this particular occasion, a
friend of Henderson noticed that a white man was being hanged in effigy. He sniffed trouble.
Only a few months later the Bahian authorities were lucky, by timely arrests, to save the whole
population from being massacred by the enraged slaves in an impending insurrection, whose purpose
was nothing less than the wholesale slaughter of the entire white population of the city, with
the exception of the governor, D'Arcos, whom the insurrectos were to raise as their prince.
Already they had murdered many whites in the outskirts of the city.[50]

Thus, in the Old South, flight was the leading form of resistance to the institution of slavery;
whereas in Brazil the more effective form of resistance by organized uprising was more frequently
attempted.

THE RACE PROBLEM

Before concluding the theme, it is imperative that we hurriedly skim over the saddest and most
serious by-product of United States slavery, race prejudice. We are familiar enough with the
limitations of the man of color in the South today. In the days of slavery, discriminations
were just as severe, if not more so, against any man of black skin, whether slave, mulatto,
freedman, quadroon, or octoroon. The slightest strain of black in a man's pedigree made him
a "nigger." A freedman was better than a slave only in an economic way. Otherwise he had virtually
no rights. He could not vote, marry a white, hold office, give testimony in case of a white
man on trial, and for militia services was limited to fatigue duty. In many parts, however,
the freedman could keep his own money, possess land, have slaves, a wife, and even own one
gun to protect his home.[51]

In Portuguese America it is often said that the race problem has been allowed to solve itself,
which is largely true. The slave in Brazil was looked down upon as a menial laborer, rather
than as an offshoot of a lower race. Marriages between the lower classes of either race were
not scorned by society. Inter-racial marriages were legal, Brazilian society favoring the marriage
of the higher type of the white to the lighter type of Negroid. Of course, among the highest
class of the land, the wealthy planters and officials, unions with persons of non-genuine white
ancestry were not relished. Here and there existed race prejudice in mild form.[52]

Mulattoes who were free were ranked above freedmen of pure ancestry. The former were generally
considered as white, for as a rule in Brazil a man passed as white if he contained a fair degree
of white blood in his veins. These free mulattoes had a regiment of their own with their own
officers, as was the case with the blacks. Many wealthy planters at Pernambuco were men of
color. Many of the Creole blacks in this region were mechanics, who sent out their slaves to
do odd mechanical jobs for the owner's profit. The best church and image painter at Pernambuco
was black. One of three commanders of the Brazilian forces against the Dutch in the seventeenth
century was Henrique Diaz, a Negro.

All told, race prejudice, as a vast problem, was a peculiar complement of the Anglo-Saxon new
world colonies' slave problem, for in virtually no other country has slavery ever so viciously
contributed to race discord. Brazil, then, may pride herself upon emerging from a slave sustained
society, free from the sores of a hideous race conflict.

AN AFTERTHOUGHT

In brief, it seems that the Brazilian institution of slavery was softer, far less brutal than
the United States system. On the other hand, the United States slave system was probably more
efficient, for the inefficiency of the management of the plantations of sugar in Brazil allowed
the West Indies in the eighteenth century to take the lead in the sugar, rum, and molasses
exports. The United States, under the slave system, secured pre-eminence in the production
of the world's greatest textile staple, cotton.

It is to be regretted, of course, that slavery has persisted so long, and still thrives in
certain Mohammedan lands. It stands today outlawed in the new world, but it will always be
a source of regret to progressive citizens of the United States that their country clung to
the institution up to within the memory of many yet living, and that she did not relax her
tight grasp upon the slave until forced to immediate action in the stress of a fratricidal
war. To humane thinkers of Brazil, it will ever be a source of sorrow that their nation has
only been slave ridden within the present generation, and even then, egged on to emancipation
by the reproaches of an at last awakened world.

Slavery must have differed in details in one country from that in another, but after all, it
was shameful in Brazil, shameful in the United States, just as it is shameful at any other
spot underneath the blue sky.

                                        HERBERT B. ALEXANDER

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Keller, Albert Galloway, Ph.D., Colonization, Boston, Copyright, 1908, p. 145.

[2] DuBois, William Edward Burghardt, The Negro, New York, 1915, p. 164.

[3] Keller, pp. 156-157.

[4] Ibid.

[5] Christie, W. D., Notes on Brazil, London, 1821, pp. 69-76.

[6] Christie, pp. 69-76.

[7] Dawson, Thomas C., South American Republics, two volumes, first edition, vol. I, New York,
Copyright, 1903, p. 481.

[8] DuBois, The Negro, p. 152.

[9] Ibid. p. 184.

[10] Negro Population in the United States, 1790-1915, p. 33.

[11] Ingram, J. K., A History of Slavery and Serfdom, London, 1895, p. 285.

[12] Bureau of Census (Dept. of Commerce and Labor), A Century of Population Growth, Washington,
1909, p. 80.

[13] Blake, William O., A History of Slavery and the Slave Trade, Columbus, 1857, p. 808.

[14] DuBois, The Negro, p. 190.

[15] Henderson, James, A History of Brazil, London, 1821, pp. 73-74.

[16] Koster, Henry, Travels in Brazil, second edition, in two volumes, vol. II, London, 1817,
pp. 247-259.

[17] Christie, pp. 69-76.

[18] Koster, p. 123.

[19] Ibid., pp. 247-259.

[20] Koster, pp. 247-259.

[21] Encyclopedia Americana, 30 volumes, vol. 27, New York and Chicago, 1919, pp. 395-396.

[22] Americana, pp. 395-396.

[23] Koster, pp. 229-231.

[24] Koster, pp. 246-247.

[25] Southey, vol. III, pp. 781-783, states that in Pernambuco masters were opposed to selling
their slaves.

[26] Koster, pp. 246-247.

[27] Brawley, Benjamin Griffith, A Short History of the American Negro, N. Y., 1917, pp. 20-21.

[28] DuBois, p. 197.

[29] Americana, pp. 395-396.

[30] Koster, pp. 238-239.

[31] Ibid.

[32] Koster, pp. 236-238.

[33] Luccock, John, Notes on Rio de Janeiro and the Southern Part of Brazil, London, 1820, p. 591.

[34] Koster, pp. 229-231.

[35] Christie, p. 578.

[36] Luccock, p. 591.

[37] Koster, pp. 233-235.

[38] Ibid.

[39] Keller, pp. 156-157.

[40] Blake, p. 808.

[41] Brawley, pp. 20-21.

[42] Henderson, pp. 72-78.

[43] Brawley, p. 90.

[44] DuBois, p. 196

[45] Ibid.

[46] Brawley, p. 90.

[47] Dawson, p. 375.

[48] Henderson, pp. 339-340.

[49] Henderson, p. 340.

[50] Ibid., p. 340.

[51] Brawley, p. 22.

[52] Koster, ch. XVIII

THE ORIGINS OF ABOLITION IN SANTO DOMINGO

Columbus discovered this island December 6, 1492. It is of the Great Antilles of the Caribbean
Sea, and lies between Cuba and Puerto Rico. He called the island Hispaniola, but Hayti, or
Haiti, was its original name. It seems beyond the power of language to exaggerate its beauties,
its productiveness, the loveliness of its climate, and its suitability as an abode for man.

At the time of its discovery the island was divided into five states or cacicats. Thus divided
it was easily conquered by the Spaniards who subjected the native Indians to slavery. Soon
after the discovery, Spain began establishing a plantation colony as opposed to a farm colony.
The work fell upon the subjected Indians, who vanished from the island, in about 50 years,
leaving the problem of labor to the overseers and the colonists. To meet this need, the Spaniards
repaired this loss by bringing in Africans, supplied by the Portuguese, who at that time occupied
themselves with the slave trade. Hierrera, who claimed to be an authority, said that one Negro
would do more work than four Indians.[1] In 1630, a number of French adventurers were expelled
by the Spanish from St. Christophe, which they had taken possession of five years before under
the leadership of Neil d'Enambroe of Dieppe. Shortly afterward they established themselves
at La Fortue. In 1650 the Spaniards still held the inner and greater islands, Cuba, Hispaniola,
Puerto Rico, and Jamaica; though in Hispaniola French buccaneers were laying the foundations
of the prosperous French Colony of St. Domingo. Smouldering resentment on the part of the Spaniards
soon burst forth in open hostility, exhibiting more seriousness than before. Then followed
savage contention between Spain and France, the Spaniards disputing the rights of the French,
the French creeping steadily inward until 1697 by virtue of the treaty of Ryswick an end was
put to this struggle. Louis XIV obtained, under this treaty, from Charles II of Spain, the
cession of all the western part of the island, which for forty years belonged to the French
by virtue of conquest. Spain kept the eastern portion of the island, calling it Santo Domingo.
This cession was of great economic value to France, she increased her number of slaves and
soon supplied all Europe with cotton and sugar. Santo Domingo, Spain's portion of the island,
as compared with Haiti, was a sluggish community. Here also Negroes increased as slaves and
soon the population of these two colonies was mostly Negro.

The distinct line between master and slave, white and black, was to become smeared. Soon there
grew up four distinct classes. Miscegenation, the result of the contact of European masters
with slave women, gave rise to a new class called mulattoes. These were usually given their
freedom, and it was the practice to liberate the mother as well. This gave rise to another
class, the free-blacks. The mulattoes and free-blacks obtained with emancipation no political
rights whatever. At first this caused no worry or serious difficulty. Some of the mulattoes
received vast wealth from their fathers and often they were educated abroad, usually in France.
Some of the free-blacks accumulated a little property but in a far lesser degree, however.
With the increase of mulattoes and free-blacks, and the return of those mulattoes from studies
abroad, dissatisfaction grew into thought and subsequently into expression and agitation for
political rights. Behind and beneath the growing dissatisfaction of these two classes, the
mulattoes and free-blacks, was a resentful and restless slave population.

At the outbreak of the French Revolution, even before it, France had in her possession eight
slave holding colonies, San Domingo, Martinique, Guadeloupe, Cayenne, Tabago, St. Lucie, the
Isle of France, and the Isle of Bourbon. The most important of these being Martinique and Guadeloupe,
with a white population of about 25,000, contained about 150,000 slaves and a small number
of free Negroes; and then there was her flourishing colony of San Domingo. Martinique and Guadeloupe
were represented in the National Assemblies which brought France into early contact with the
issue rising out of racial color.[2] San Domingo with its large population and economic importance
offered a more perplexing problem. The population there was large. Moreau de St. Méry quoted
the official figures of 1790 as 30,826 whites, 24,262 free Negroes and mulattoes, and 452,000
slaves.[3]

The legal status of slaves here was substantially the same as that of slaves in the tropical
colonies of other nations; in fact, the Western European slave code remains practically the
same. This slave colony seems singular in being unfavorable to the health and life of the natives.
The annual excess of deaths over births amounted to about two and one half per cent. Added
to this death rate was the rapid spread of the feverish desire for wealth at any cost among
the peoples of European countries. The slave trade was profitable. The demand for slaves was
continual, amounting at this period to anywhere between 30,000 to 35,000 a year in the French
West Indies. Human life and rights were subordinate to gold, despite the position assumed by
these nations as champions of Christianity.

The question of mulattoes and freedmen and their descendants was peculiar to San Domingo. The
free Negroes and mulattoes were four fifths the whites in number. When the offspring of illicit
unions between slave women and their masters attained their majority they were emancipated,
and in many cases their mothers were set free also. As follows a system of servitude,

    "The Sons of gods take the Daughters of men, but
    The Sons of men dare not touch the daughters of the gods."

And thus it came about the number of these classes increased rapidly. The poor laboring class
of the community, corresponding somewhat to the class of "poor whites" within the slave section
of our country, was made up of free Negroes.

"According to the Code Noir of Louis XIV, freemen and their descendants were entitled to all
the rights and privileges of citizens of France. However, in defiance of the law, race prejudice
had built up during the eighteenth century a special body of customary rules for their control,
and this custom was recognized by numerous administrative edicts and royal ordinances." Great
effort was put forth to keep the possibilities of uprisings at a distance. Any use of fire
arms was prohibited even the mulattoes, and the commissioned officers of military service were
kept white without exception. A trace of Negro blood was a bar to individual attainment, even
marriage to a mulatto received its share of condemnation. A strong feeling of social repugnance
was being brought into play which outlawed all social intercourse between the races. This sort
of thing, going on in so many different places--practically wherever the Western European colonized--became
imbedded in custom and in places was expressed in law.

While the Code Noir of Louis XIV went even so far as to lay down certain practices as the fundamental
law of slavery, it was apparently only a "law." There was a lack of the moral support necessary
to insure for it even a respectable amount of operation. There were at work, however, forces
which sought to create a widespread social antipathy to slavery. This resulted somewhat from
the situation in England where there was a strong sentiment against slavery. The Quakers in
England, whose founder had been a fearless critic of the institution, were foremost in the
attack on slavery. In 1727 the Society of Friends passed a resolution of censure against the
slave trade, and in 1758 its influence was strongly exerted to keep its members from even an
indirect connection with it. In 1765, Granville Sharp began to look after the interests of
Negroes who were claimed in British ports as slaves, and in 1772 was instrumental in securing
the famous Somerset decision that, as soon as any slave set foot on British soil he became
free. In 1783 the Society of Friends submitted to Parliament the first petition for the abolition
of the slave trade. In that same year Thomas Clarkson won the prize in a competition in Latin
composition at Cambridge upon the assigned subject, "Whether it is right to enslave others
against their will." His essay immediately became a standard authority among opponents of the
trade and the institution. A greater consequence was that Clarkson himself was so inspired
he devoted his life to the cause of the blacks. In 1787 a "Committee for Effecting the Abolition
of the Slave Trade" was organized. It was composed chiefly of Quakers, having Granville Sharp
as President and Thomas Clarkson as its most prominent member. Their work was organized to
embrace appeals to the public and petitions to the government. Wilberforce, a member of Parliament
and an intimate friend of Pitt, was to head the campaign in Parliament, while the Committee
was to solicit funds, collect information and arouse public sentiment. This campaign lasted
until the abolition of British slave trade in 1806.

This work in behalf of freedom soon extended to France. A little over three months after the
London Committee was formed it received a letter from Jean Pierre Brissot, requesting that
he and Etienne Clavière might become associates of the committee for the purpose of publishing
French translations of its literature and collecting subscriptions to be remitted to London
for the good of the common cause. The committee declined the offer of financial aid but elected
Brissot an honorary member and recommended that a society be formed in France. Now both Brissot
and Clavière were active figures in the Revolution. Clavière was at one time minister of finances
and Brissot, most ardent of revolutionists, was a Parish Deputy during the Reign of Terror,
and a leader of the Girondins from 1789 to 1792. Accordingly, a society was formed in Paris
in February, 1788, under the name of the Society of Friends of the Blacks, with Clavière as
President. It adopted the same seals as the Committee in England but was an entirely independent
organization. Directly its influence began to draw within its folds powerful figures. The famous
Comte de Mirabeau was a charter member, Marquis de Lafayette, an officer who had served in
the American Revolution, and Condorcet, a member of the Convention, whose report as a member
of the Committee of Public Instruction of the Legislative Assembly formed the actual basis
of subsequent plans for education, were among the first additions to its membership. Other
prominent members who came in later were Sièyés, Petion, Grégoire, Robespierre, and the Duke
de la Rochefoucauld. Mirabeau issued the early publications of the society as supplements to
his journal; at a later time Brissot's journal, the "Patriote francaise," became the organ
of the society.

With Brissot's return from a visit to America in 1788, the society went seriously to work.
In America he seems to have met some things which clinched his convictions and determinations.
Coincidental, the National Assembly was about to meet, deputies were being elected, cahiers
were being written, and the country was stirred up over the watchword liberty. This offered
an exceptional advantage to the society. What better opportunity could one anticipate to secure
the abolition of slavery and the slave trade, the most flagrant violations of the principles
of equality and liberty ever known? On February 3, 1789, Condorcet, at that time the President,
addressed a circular letter to all the bailiwicks of France, urging that there be inserted
in the cahiers a demand that the Estates-General destroy the slave trade and make preparations
for the ultimate abolition of slavery. The results of this campaign were disappointing. As
a whole the cahiers made it perfectly clear to the Society and all concerned, that an attack
on slavery was not a matter vital to the mass of the nation, and that success, if it came at
all, must be due to the loyalty of the Estates-General to the principles of equality and liberty,
and to the ability and energy of the little group of intellectual leaders who made up the Society
of Friends of the Blacks. This was the status of the controversy. Anti-slavery agitation was
confined to an intellectual élite, promoted by an appeal to the mind.

In the National Assembly the contest between Friends of the Blacks and defenders of slavery
began in connection with the application of a delegation for admission to the Estates-General
as representatives of San Domingo. Early in 1788 there was formed in Paris an organization,
the "colonial committee" by name, composed of certain colonial proprietors residing in France,
a few merchants interested in colonial trade, and a small number of actual residents of San
Domingo, which began an agitation for representation of the colony in the Estates-General,
which had been promised for 1792. The committee circulated pamphlets and the like. It made
a formal request of the king for representation of San Domingo. The request was refused by
the Council of State. The agitators boldly drew up and sent to the colony a plan for electoral
assemblies. These assemblies were held without any legal sanction, and thirty-one deputies
were elected.

The committee continued its work in France, and succeeded in securing a demand for the admission
of colonial deputies in at least fourteen cahiers of primary assemblies. Repeated applications
were made to Necker and to the Minister of Marine, but without result, and when the Estates-General
opened the representatives of San Domingo had no legal standing. Nevertheless part of the deputies
presented themselves on June 8, making application separately to each of the three orders.

The third estate alone proved receptive. On June 20, eight San Domingo deputies were allowed
to take the Tennis Court Oath. On June 27 the Committee on Credentials made a report unanimously
recommending the admission of the colonial deputation but declared itself unable to agree on
the number of deputies to which the colony was properly entitled. The Assembly accepted the
report, apparently without a dissenting voice, and postponed discussion of the question of
numbers to June 3. This brought squarely before the Assembly the delicate problem of slavery
and the status of free-blacks under the new régime, and brought upon the colonial delegation
the wrath of the powerful Society of the Friends of the Blacks.

The Friends of the Blacks recognized in this San Domingo delegation a foe. Mirabeau's newspaper
challenged their right to count the slaves as a basis of representation, and taunted them with
bitter words. "Either count your Negroes as men or as beasts; if they are men, free them, let
them vote, let them be elected to office. If they are cattle, let the number of deputies be
proportional to your human population; we have counted neither our horses nor our mules."[4]

Between the vote of admission on June 27 and the final debate on July 3 and 4 the Friends of
the Blacks awoke to the importance of the issue. Condorcet published a vigorous pamphlet denouncing
the slave holder and all his works. "We are tempted," said he, "to advocate a law which shall
exclude from the National Assembly every man, who, as a slave holder, is interested in the
maintenance of principles contrary to the natural rights of man, which are the only purpose
of every political organization.... The natural rights of man to be governed only by laws to
which he has given his consent cannot be invoked in favor of a man who is himself at the very
moment violating the law of nature." The pamphlet closes with the remark that the planters
can doubtless speak concerning their own interests, "but that on their lips the sacred word
'rights' would be blasphemy against reason."[5]

When the question was reopened on July 3, Mirabeau took the lead in the discussion, raising
again the question of counting the slaves, and arguing further that the so-called deputies
really represented only about one half the free population, since the whole body of free blacks
and mulattoes had been excluded from suffrage. The spokesman of the colonial deputation was
the Marquis de Gouy d'Arsy, a colonial proprietor residing in Paris, from the beginning a leader
in the movement for colonial representation. Gouy made no attempt to defend the principle of
slave representation. He based his claim for the admission of eighteen or twenty delegates
on the wealth and commercial importance of the colony. His weak point was the exclusion of
free tax-paying mulattoes from the electoral assemblies. He said that since the mulattoes were
natural enemies of the whites it would be dangerous to give them any influence, an argument
which made a bad impression on the Assembly. The debate was finished the next day, and the
number of deputies was fixed by a compromise at six. The chief importance of this discussion
was the prominence which it gave to two questions that the colonial deputies were anxious to
keep smothered--slavery and the civil status of the free Negroes. During the debate on June
27 the Duke de la Rochefoucauld found opportunity to present the aims of the Society of Friends
of the Blacks, and requested the future consideration of the problem of emancipation. Remarks
by other deputies to the effect that something be done to improve the condition of slaves received
hearty applause.

The French Revolution plunged the island into a state of chaos. The vast majority of the population
of the western colony were slaves, and the number of free blacks and mulattoes were nearly
equal to the number of whites. "The news of the Revolution had encouraged each class of the
colonial population to expect the realization of its peculiar hopes. The planters desired freer
access to the markets of the world, the poor whites hoped for the advantages that their richer
neighbors alone enjoyed, the free blacks and mulattoes for civil equality; even the slaves
cherished hopes of liberty."[6] The clash of interests brought on civil war in Santo Domingo.
The situation here, the richest of the sugar colonies, was serious; it soon received special
attention from the home government. A colonial assembly was chosen, and did in miniature what
the National Assembly undertook for all France. It controlled royal officers and troops, attempted
to reorganize the administrative system and the courts, and even opened the ports to products
specifically excluded by a royal ordinance. The question of the status of the free blacks had
reached an acute stage. As property holders their interests were identical with those of the
whites, provided the whites did not exclude them from a share in the civil conquests of the
French Revolution. The National Assembly finally gave to the colonies an organization similar
to the local administrative system of France except that it delegated executive powers to a
governor. The constitution of the colony, once approved by the national legislature, could
not be changed without the demand or consent of the local assemblies. To this local legislature
was given the responsibility for the making of laws on all matters except trade and defense.
If the governor did not withhold his consent in order that the authorities at Paris should
first be consulted, laws could be put into force provisionally before they received the final
sanction of the National Assembly and the Crown.

The free people of color petitioned the National Assembly for political rights and privileges
in 1789. On May 15, 1791, on the question of the free blacks, the Assembly passed a decree
declaring that people of color, born of free parents, were entitled to all the privileges of
French citizens. When the news reached the island the mulattoes and free Negroes rejoiced.
The whites were opposed to any such measure. Thereupon the governor of the island delayed promulgating
the decree while he communicated with the home government. The free people of color were angered
and civil strife followed. The mulattoes took up arms against the whites. To complicate matters,
the slaves rose in insurrection in August, 1791. The whites, finding themselves in a perilous
situation, decided to accede to the demands of the free people of color, who in turn promised
to combine with the whites to suppress the revolt. Meanwhile, in the last days of the Assembly
the friends of the planters succeeded in having the whole matter referred to the colonial assemblies.
The people of color, mulattoes and free blacks, fled to arms again and joined the slaves, leading
bands of them against the whites or remained indifferent in actual warfare. Then followed actual
civil war. The French land owners or "colons" called in the English to help them combat the
blacks.[7] The English came to their aid. By the end of 1793 the latter took possession of
a part of the island which seemed lost to France, being occupied partly by Spaniards and partly
by English, when Toussaint L'Ouverture, the bondman leading the revolting slaves, espoused
the cause of France. Following months of bloody war, France, apprehensive of a British invasion
in full force, and not being able to put down the insurgents, weary and tired of the struggle,
conciliated. August, 1793, Universal Freedom was proclaimed--this measure was ratified by the
National convention early the following year. This was the first time in the history of the
world a legislative assembly ever decreed the abolition of human slavery.

The British, having taken Port-au-Prince and besieged the French Governor at Port-de-la-Paix
when the blacks under Toussaint L'Ouverture defeated them and released the French Governor,
abandoned the island in 1797. L'Ouverture, who up to forty years of age had been a slave, thus
succeeded in ridding the island of the Spaniards and the English. The French government rewarded
him by appointing him major-general and governor of the island.

This left L'Ouverture Commander-in-Chief and virtually dictator of the island. He set up a
Republic, drew up a Constitution, which he sent to Napoleon. For answer Napoleon appointed
Leclerc governor of the colony, and sent a formidable army to reduce the authority of L'Ouverture.
War broke out again. After several engagements L'Ouverture surrendered and retired on his properties.
He was subsequently decoyed on board a French vessel, kidnapped and deported to Paris. He was
then placed by Bonaparte in a damp prison of the fortress of Joux on the chilly heights of
Jura where he died. In September, 1802, the peoples of color took up arms against French domination
under the leadership of General Dessalines and swore to die rather than remain subservient
any longer.[8] By the end of 1793 Rochambeau, who on the death of General Leclerc was put in
command by Bonaparte, was hard pressed in the city of Cape Haitien by black troops and was
compelled to capitulate and "the power of France was lost on the island forever." On January
1, 1804, Haiti, as it was better known, proclaimed its independence with General Dessalines
as ruler. Slavery was abolished forever. In 1822 Haiti, the western colony, controlled the
whole of the island; but in 1844 the eastern part seceded and established an independent government
known today as the Dominican Republic.

                                        GEORGE W. BROWN

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Mossell, Toussaint L'Ouverture, p. xiii.

[2] Hardy, Negro Question in French Revolution, p. 1.

[3] Moreau de St. Méry, Response, etc., 72.

[4] Hardy, The Negro Question in the French Revolution, p. 10.

[5] Condorcet's Works.

[6] Bourne, Revolutionary Period in Europe, p. 110.

[7] American Encyclopedia--Haiti.

[8] Mossell, Toussaint L'Ouverture.

CANADIAN NEGROES AND THE REBELLION OF 1837

There are a number of interesting references in the literature of the times to the part played
by Negro refugees in defending the frontier of Canada during the troubles of 1838. The outbreaks
in both Upper and Lower Canada in 1837 were followed by a series of petty attacks along the
border in which American sympathizers participated. Sandwich, on the Detroit River, was one
of the objectives of the attacking parties and there were also threats on the Niagara River
frontier. One of the parties of "rebels" had taken possession of Navy Island, in the Niagara
River, and a small ship, the Caroline, was used for conveying supplies. A Canadian party under
command of Colonel MacNab crossed the river, seized the ship and after setting it afire allowed
it to drift over the falls. This gave rise to an international issue and was the occasion of
much bluster on both sides of the line that happily ended as bluster. All along the border
on the American side there were "Hunter's Lodges"[1] organized during 1838 and this movement,
joined with the widespread political disaffection, made the times unhappy for the Canadian
provinces.

Sir Francis Bond Head, who was Governor of Upper Canada when the troubles of 1837 began and
whose conduct did not tend materially to quelling the unrest, wrote his "apologia" a couple
of years later and in it he speaks of the loyalty of the colored people, almost all of whom
were refugees from slavery. He says:

     "When our colored population were informed that American
     citizens, sympathizing with their sufferings, had taken violent
     possession of Navy Island, for the double object of liberating
     them from the domination of British rule, and of imparting to
     them the blessings of republican institutions, based upon the
     principle that all men are born equal, did our colored brethren
     hail their approach? No, on the contrary, they hastened as
     volunteers in wagon-loads to the Niagara frontier to beg from me
     permission that, in the intended attack upon Navy Island, they
     might be permitted to form the forlorn hope--in short they
     supplicated that they might be allowed to be foremost to defend
     the glorious institutions of Great Britain."[2]

Rev. J. W. Loguen, in the narrative of his life, says that he was urgently solicited by the
Canadian government to accept the captaincy of a company of black troops who had been enrolled
during the troubles. As the affair was then about all over by the joint effort of the Canadian
and United States governments, he did not accept the offer but he makes this interesting comment:

     "The colored population of Canada at that time was small compared
     to what it now is; nevertheless, it was sufficiently large to
     attract the attention of the government. They were almost to a
     man fugitives from the States. They could not, therefore, be
     passive when the success of the invaders would break the only arm
     interposed for their security, and destroy the only asylum for
     African freedom in North America. The promptness with which
     several companies of blacks were organized and equipped, and the
     desperate valor they displayed in this brief conflict, are an
     earnest of what may be expected from the swelling thousands of
     colored fugitives collecting there, in the event of a war between
     the two countries."[3]

Josiah Henson, founder of the Dawn colony in Upper Canada and famous as the reputed "original"
of Mrs. Stowe's Uncle Tom, says in his narrative that he was captain of the second company
of Essex colored volunteers and that he and his men assisted in the defence of Fort Malden
(Amherstburg) from Christmas 1837 to May of 1838. He says further that he assisted in the capture
of the schooner Anne, an affair which took place on January 9, 1838.[4]

John MacMullen, in his History of Canada, says that among the troops on the border during 1838
"were two hundred Indians from Delaware, and a body of colored men, settlers in the western
part of the province, the poor hunted fugitives from American slavery, who had at length found
liberty and security under the British flag."[5]

A rather interesting aftermath of the rebellion is contained in an item appearing in the Amherstburg
Courier of March 10, 1849, reporting a meeting of Negroes in Sandwich township to protest against
the Rebellion Losses Bill.[6] Colonel Prince was thanked for his opposition to the measure.[7]

Eighty years after the rebellion the Negro men of Canada were again called upon to fight, this
time in another land and in a conflict that was destined to affect every race and every land.
The service that was rendered in the Canadian army by the colored companies of pioneers will
some day receive due recognition at the hands of an historian. In the meantime, it is not forgotten
by the people of Canada.

[2] Head, Sir, F. B., A Narrative (London, 1839), page 392.

[3] Loguen, J. W., The Rev. J. W. Loguen as a Slave and as a Freeman (Syracuse, 1859), pp. 343-345.

[4] An autobiography of the Rev. Josiah Henson, "Uncle Tom," from 1789 to 1881 (London, Ont.,
1881), page 177. A sketch of Josiah Henson appeared in THE JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY for January,
1918 (Vol. III, no. 1, pp. 1-21). This is condensed from his autobiography which appeared in
several editions.

[5] MacMullen, John, History of Canada from its first Discovery to the Present Times (Brockville,
Ont., 1868), pp. 459-460. He gives as his authority Radclift's despatch, "10th January, 1838."

[6] The Rebellion Losses Bill proposed compensation for those who had sustained losses in Lower
Canada (Quebec) during the troubles of 1837. It was fiercely opposed in Upper Canada (Ontario)
by the element that regarded the French as "aliens" and "rebels." When Lord Elgin, the Governor,
gave his assent to the bill in 1849 there were riots in Montreal in which the Parliament Buildings
were burned.

[7] Col. Prince was one of the leaders in the defense of the Canadian frontier along the Detroit
River during 1838, afterwards a member of the Canadian Parliament. During the troubles of 1838
he ordered the shooting of four prisoners without the form of a trial. The act was condemned
by Lord Brougham and others with great severity and is one dark spot on the records of the
Canadian forces during the trying period.

LOTT CARY,[1] THE COLONIZING MISSIONARY

With Lott Cary and Colin Teague[2] sailing for Africa in 1821, a new era of missionary expansion
was begun by Negro Baptists. The distinctive feature of this epoch, which may be termed modern,
is the fact that behind these men was the Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society, which
gave them support, such as it was, and to which periodic reports were made.

PREPARATION FOR AFRICA

Lott Cary was born on the estate of William A. Christian,[5] in Charles City County, Virginia,[6]
thirty miles from Richmond,[7] about four years after the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
There was no exact record kept of the time of his birth, although it appears to have been about
the year 1780.[8]

His mother and father lived together on the great plantation of their master, centering their
attention on Lott, their only child. His mother gave no public profession of religion although
she died giving evidence that she accepted the Christian faith. His father, however, was a
pious man, a respected member of a Baptist church.[9] As a result, Lott received some early
religious training which may have influenced his later life.

But there were temptings in his life; there were battles in his soul. Why should a slave boy
hope? Could he ever become free? Why not drink life to the dregs? The chief among his playmates,
he became the mischief-maker of the place. Profligate, profane, polluter was his title. Lott
Cary tried to reform but he was only able to control himself a few days. Before long, in 1804,[10]
he was hired out by the year as a common laborer[11] in the Shochoe tobacco warehouse at Richmond.[12]
There he grew more intemperate and profane and showed little signs of reformation.

It was not reformation that he needed but regeneration as was evidenced one Lord's day in 1807[13]
as he sat in the gallery of the First Baptist Church[14] and heard the minister preach. He
was hopefully converted and was baptized by Pastor John Courtney[15] into the fellowship of
the church. There he heard a sermon on the third chapter of the gospel of John which so inspired
him that he obtained a Testament in order that he might read for himself the Lord's interview
with Nicodemus. In a short time he knew the alphabet, and with very little assistance from
the men at the warehouse,[16] he learned to read this chapter and also to write.[17]

Cary was a changed man--industrious, thrifty, Christian. Whereas he had been idle now he devoted
his leisure time to reading and it is said that one of the books that he read was Adam Smith's
Wealth of Nations.[18] By his application to reading and writing he was able in a little time
to make dray tickets and to act as shipping clerk.[19] His work in the warehouse was "such
as no person, white or black, has equalled in the same situation.... He could produce any one
of the hundreds of hogsheads of tobacco the instant it was called for."[20] For these services
he was often given a five dollar note and the privilege to sell small quantities of waste tobacco
for his own benefit.[21] He saved the money obtained in this way, and with the aid of a subscription
among his employers accumulated by 1813 $850 with which he purchased freedom for himself and
his two children.[22]

The following extract of a letter from William Crane to the Rev. Obadiah Brown of Washington
City, which he forwarded to the corresponding secretary of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions,
corroborates, in the main, the foregoing statements as well as gives some interesting sidelights
on the lives of Cary and Teague:

                                   Richmond, March 28, 1819.

     You will probably recollect, that I introduced you to two of our
     colored brethren in this place, who are accustomed to speak in
     public; one named Collin Teague, the other Lot Carey. Ever since
     the missionary subject has been so much agitated in this country,
     these two brethren, associated with many others, have been
     wishing they could, in some way, aid their unhappy kindred in
     Africa; and I suppose you have heard of their having formed a
     missionary society for this sole purpose. Some letters published
     in No. VI of the Luminary (written by Kizell, the Baptist
     leader in Sherbro Island and by some others) have served to
     awaken them effectually. They are now determined to go themselves
     to Africa; and the only questions with them are, in what way will
     it be best for them to proceed? and what previous steps are
     requisite to be taken? They think it necessary to spend some time
     in study first. They both possess industry and abilities, such
     as, with the blessing of Providence, would soon make them rich.
     It is but two or three years since either of them enjoyed
     freedom; and both have paid large sums for their families. They
     now possess but little, except a zealous wish to go and do what
     they can. Brother Lot has a wife, and several little children. He
     has a place a little below Richmond, that cost him $1500, but
     will probably not sell for more than $1000 at this time. Brother
     Collin has a wife, a son 14 years of age, and a daughter of 11,
     for whom he has paid $1300, and has scarcely any thing left. Both
     their wives are Baptists; their children, amiable and docile,
     have been to school considerably; and I hope, if they go, will
     likewise be of service. Collin is a saddler and harness maker. He
     had no early education. The little that he has gained, has been
     by chance and peacemeal. He has judgment, and as much keenness of
     penetration as almost any man. He can read, though he is not a
     good reader, and can write so as to make out a letter. The little
     knowledge he has of figures, has been gained by common
     calculations in business. Lot was brought up on a farm; and for a
     number of years has been chief manager among the labourers in the
     largest tobacco ware house in this city. He has charge of
     receiving, marking and shipping tobacco; and the circumstance
     that he receives $700 a-year wages may help you to form an
     estimate of the man. He reads better than Collin, and is in every
     respect a better scholar. They have been trying to preach about
     ten or eleven years, and are both about forty years of age.[23]

Cary had been licensed to preach by the First Baptist Church, Richmond, and he exercised his
talent every Lord's day among the colored people on plantations a few miles from Richmond.[24]
It was not many months before he was the highly esteemed pastor of the African Baptist Church
in Richmond. As a preacher, Cary was not polished, but "his ideas would sometimes burst upon
you in their native solemnity, and awaken deeper feelings than the most polished, but less
original" and artificial discourses.[25]

Lott Cary early exhibited the power of an organizer. In 1815, William Crane, who was a member
of the First Baptist Church, felt that his ought to use his talent among the twelve hundred
Negro members of that congregation. Consequently, he and David Roper[26] gratuitously opened
a tri-weekly night school in the gallery of the old church with Lott Cary, Colin Teague and
fifteen or twenty leading members of the church as pupils.[27] Now Crane was able to inspire
such a group to practical missionary service, for he himself had been repeatedly urged to become
a missionary and had had close contact with Luther Rice as one of the managers of the General
Missionary Convention. But it was left to Lott Cary to excite among the Negroes a strong interest
in behalf of Africa. The result was the formation of the Richmond African Baptist Missionary
Society in 1815. Crane was the president or corresponding secretary.[28] This was necessary,
for since the various uprisings of Negroes[29] were making Virginia a hotbed of discontent,
the city of Richmond was wary of having Negro meetings unless they were sponsored by white
persons. Crane represented the Society in the General Missionary Convention,[30] formed in
1814, and remained its delegate for about twenty years.

At the first triennial session of the Convention at Philadelphia, in May, 1817, a letter was
read from the corresponding secretary of the Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society and
it was unanimously

     Resolved, that the said letter be noticed on the minutes of the
     Convention, and that the Board, if they find it practicable, be
     advised to institute an African Mission, conformably to the
     wishes of the said African Mission Society; and that the
     Corresponding Secretary of the Board be requested to communicate
     this resolution together with an encouraging affectionate letter
     to that society.[31]

Feeling of sympathy for the African was high. Many slave-holding Baptists felt that they owed
the Negro a debt which they should pay.[32] Moreover, the board of the Convention felt that
the interest in Foreign missions manifested by the Negro Baptists of Richmond was a providential
plan whereby the slaves brought from Africa might be converted and returned to evangelize that
continent.[33] Since, therefore, mission work could be propagated in Africa in the English
language and for one quarter the expense required for other lands,[34] the Convention felt
no hesitancy in acknowledging the claims of Africa.

Luther Rice, while in Richmond during the winter of 1817, visited the African Missionary Society.
"It afforded me much pleasure, indeed," he reported,[35] "to observe the zeal, and intelligence
and capacity, and success, discovered in the African Mission Society."

As a matter of fact, the formation of the Richmond African Baptist Society was an epochal event.
The example was followed by the African Baptist Church of Philadelphia[36] and by the Baptists
of Petersburg, Virginia.[37] The African mission spirit even permeated North Carolina and Georgia,
for during the years 1816 and 1817 the Negro Baptists of those parts contributed $32.64 to
the cause.[38] This contribution far outstripped the donation of the white Baptists to the
same cause. During the same time they contributed only $14.27, $12.27 of which was given by
the newly formed African Mite Society of Providence, Rhode Island.[39]

Lott Cary resolved that it was his duty to go and preach the gospel in benighted Africa. It
was at Crane's night school that this intention was made known. After Crane had reviewed the
report of Burgess and Mills, telling of their exploring tour on the coast of Africa, Lott Cary
said: "I have been determined for a long time to go to Africa and at least to see the country
for myself."[40] There is no doubt that to some extent Gary was awakened to a deep sense of
responsibility for his brethren in Africa by that part of this report which dealt with John
Kizell, the Baptist leader in Sherbro Island, the president of the Friendly Society established
by Paul Cuffee, the escort and guide of Burgess and Mills on their exploring tour, the man
directly responsible for the beginning of the impractical scheme of deportation on the continent
of Africa by the American Colonization Society.[41]

But how was he to accomplish his object? Crane said,[42] "I had thought of addressing the Corresponding
Secretary on their (Cary and Teague) behalf, for the patronage of the American Baptist Mission
Society, but again thought, that the Colonization Society might be pleased with taking them
under their care, and that their mission might bear a more imposing aspect under the auspices
of this society than it would with the Baptists alone." Lott Cary was received by the Baptist
Board of Foreign Missions, May 1, 1819, and was accepted by the American Colonization Society
to work for them "without pay as other engagements would permit."[43]

The treasurer of the General Missionary Convention reported $2 for Africa received September
21, 1819, from a friend in Nashville Tennessee. The next year the society appropriated $200
in cash and $100 in books. Contrasted with this was the $483.25 paid April 17, 1820, by the
Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society to the General Missionary Convention to be appropriated
for Africa.[44] Thus the Convention served only as a clearing house for the funds contributed
from Richmond. With this in mind we can more clearly understand the following order voted by
the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions in 1820:

     With African Mission Society, Richmond,
     To various exp. for Collin Teague and Lot Carey ... 500 25.[45]

Furthermore, the historian of the Convention up to the year 1840[46] relates that the Richmond
African Baptist Missionary Society, of which Lott Cary was the recording secretary, appropriated
to the cause of African redemption $700, all of its funds collected during the first five years
of its existence. For many years thereafter the Society collected and contributed annually
from $100 to $150 to the mission in Africa.[47]

Lott Cary was giving up much to be an apostle to his people--a pastorate of nearly eight hundred
members, a farm and house costing $1,500 and a salary increase of $200 a year if he would stay.[48]
But he must go. There were promptings big and great. Cary and Colin Teague are said to have
wished to be where their color would be no disparagement to their usefulness.[49] "I am an
African," he is reported to have answered an intelligent minister who asked him why he was
leaving,[50] "and, in this country, however meritorious my conduct, and respectable my character,
I cannot receive the credit due to either. I wish to go to a country where I shall be estimated
by my merits, not by my complexion; and I feel bound to labor for my suffering race."

It is highly probable that Cary possessed no such race consciousness as is portrayed in the
foregoing reports of Crane and Gurley. True enough, the occasion for such sentiment was there
in the institution of slavery but had Cary imbibed the spirit? On the one hand, the free Negro
was not wanted in Virginia as is evidenced by an act which made unlawful the permanent residence
in the State of any slave set free after May 1, 1806. But, on the other hand, this act was
not generally enforced because of the economic value of many of the freedmen.[51] Thus it is
doubtful whether Cary, whose salary would be increased if he remained in Virginia, and Teague,
both effectual workmen whose industry was needed, would have to go away to gain a higher status.

Let us examine the facts further. Crane was certainly enthusiastic for African colonization
and Gurley was the secretary of the American Colonization Society. Thus these statements, as
well as similar ones which follow, seem like attempts on the part of the friends of colonization
to make Cary say to the other free Negroes that colonization was a desirable thing. Certainly
such an attitude would be a timely rebuttal of the anti-colonization sentiment of the Negro
ministry in general.

Furthermore, this reason for going to Africa was not in accord with the one given at Crane's
night school. Then he wanted to see Africa for himself; now he finds America no place for the
Negro. He could have changed his point of view, but did he? If he did change his view, he had
changed again in less than two years (March 13, 1821) when he wrote as follows to the corresponding
secretary of the Board of Foreign Missions:

     If you intend doing anything for Africa you must not wait for the
     Colonization Society, nor for government, for neither of these
     are in search of missionary grounds, but of colonizing grounds;
     if it should not suit missionary needs, you cannot expect to
     gather in a missionary crop. And, moreover, all of us who are
     connected with the agents, who are under public instructions,
     must be conformed to their laws, whether they militate against
     missionary operation or not.[52]

Thus if Cary made statements which favor colonization he was very inconsistent, for it was
he who was chiefly responsible for the colonists openly defying the Colonization Society in
1824. Nor could Cary write so well. It is most likely, therefore, that Lott Cary wanted to
go to Africa simply to see the country and to do missionary work.

Prior to his public farewell, Lott Cary and Colin Teague were ordained and they, with their
wives, Joseph Langford and wife and Hilary Teague, were organized in January, 1821, into a
church. Lott Cary was elected pastor. The constitution of this body which they were to plant
in Africa was modelled after the Samson Street Church of Philadelphia.[53]

Cary's farewell sermon, preached in the meeting house of the First Baptist Church, Richmond,
was well ordered, without the rant common to some preachers of that day, dignified and pathetic,
and left a lasting impression on the audience.[54] Teague had often remarked to William Crane,
"Sir, I don't hear any of your white ministers that can preach like Lott Cary." Crane was anxious
to hear him and after listening to his farewell message from Romans 8:32--"He that spared not
his own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us
all things?"--he did not hesitate to declare: "I have a most vivid recollection of the manner
in which, towards the close, he dwelt upon the word 'freely.' With thrilling emphasis he exclaimed
over and over, 'He gave them freely!' He rang a succession of perhaps a dozen changes upon
the word, in a manner that would not have dishonored Whitfield."[55]

Lott Gary closed his sermon with this thought:

     I am about to leave you and expect to see your faces no more. I
     long to preach to the poor Africans the way of life and
     salvation. I don't know what may befall me, whether I may find a
     grave in the ocean, or among the savage men, or more savage wild
     beasts on the Coast of Africa; nor am I anxious what may become
     of me. I feel it my duty to go; and I very much fear that many of
     those who preach the Gospel in this country, will blush when the
     Saviour calls them to give an account of their labors in His
     cause and tell them, "I commanded you to go into all the world,
     and preach the Gospel to every creature;" (very emphatically he
     exclaimed) the Saviour may ask where have you been? What have you
     been doing? Have you endeavored to the utmost of your ability to
     fulfill the commands I gave you, or have you sought your own
     gratification, and your own ease, regardless of My commands?[56]

A distinguished Presbyterian minister said to Gurley, "A sermon which I heard from Lott Gary,
shortly before he sailed for Africa, was the best extemporaneous sermon I ever heard. It contained
more original and impressive thoughts, some of which are distinct in my memory, and never can
be forgotten."[57] Elder John Bryce, assistant pastor of the First Baptist Church, afterwards
confessed that he had never been so deeply interested in a sermon.[58]

READJUSTMENT ON AFRICAN SOIL

By the twenty-third of January, 1821, Gary and his church were ready to sail.[59] At half past
six in the morning[60] the Nautilus, carrying 28 colonists and a number of children, left Norfolk,
Virginia, en route to Sierra Leone.[61]

As the agents of the American Colonization Society, who made the journey, had not completed
their negotiations for the purchase of a site for the settlers, the party remained at Freetown,
Sierra Leone, for some months.[62] From there Cary wrote the Corresponding Secretary of the
Baptist Board of Foreign Missions, March 13th:

     Rev. and Dear Sir

     I am happy that an opportunity is now afforded me, to inform the
     Board through you, the only proper medium of communication with
     them, that we all arrived safe in Africa. We had a long passage
     of forty four days, yet we were wonderfully preserved by the
     great Ruler of the winds and the seas....

     I am truly sorry, that the hopes and expectations of the Board
     cannot be realized, as to our missionary labours; for, as it
     pleased you to have us connected with the Colonization Society,
     and the agents of the Society upon their arrival here, finding
     their prospects of getting lands very gloomy, so much so that
     they disowned us as colonists; and the government's agent had
     captured Africans for whom he was bound, by the laws of the
     United States, to procure a place, in order to settle them, or
     until there can be a more permanent settlement obtained, the
     agent received us as labourers and mechanics, to be settled with
     them in order to make preparations for the reception of others;
     we are therefore bound to the government's agent. He has rented a
     farm, and put us on it, and we must cultivate it for our support,
     and for the support of these Africans; and pay as much of the
     rent as we can. And as this obligation will last until lands are
     purchased by the agents of the Colonization Society, I am greatly
     afraid it will not end soon; and until it does end, our mission
     labours will be very few. Jesus Christ, our Saviour, when he came
     on his mission into this world, was found often with a broad axe
     in his hand: and I believe that a good many corn field
     missionaries would be a great blessing to this country, that is
     if they were not confined to the field by law and by necessity.
     We are bound by both. I converse very freely with you on this
     subject, because with me it is a very important one, and because
     of the interest which the Board has taken in this mission.[63]

Mrs. Cary, "a sensible woman and an exemplary Christian,"[64] was sick at this time and soon
died, leaving her husband the care of their two children.[65] Despite this and the appalling
circumstances of the first settlers, they wrote to the Board rejoicing that they were in the
country of their forefathers and hoping that His gracious approbation would crown their labors.[66]
Lott Cary kept constantly in mind the great object of his mission. He not only preached as
often as opportunity would permit but he established a mission among the Mandingoes.[67]

Nevertheless, there was danger for some time that the whole enterprise would be abandoned.
Whereupon, Captain Robert F. Stockton was sent to Africa in the armed schooner Alligator with
full powers from President Monroe and the American Colonization Society to make arrangements
for a new and permanent settlement.[68] On December 11, he and Doctor Eli Ayres, the Society's
agent, who had left America in July, anchored off Cape Mesurado or Montserado and, with John
Mills, an English mulatto and slave dealer, as interpreter, made negotiations with King Peter,
the principal chief around the Cape, for the purchase of a settlement. After much parleying
and delay on the part of the king and treachery on the part of Mills,[69] they finally exchanged
gunpowder, tobacco, rum, iron pots, beads, looking glasses, "four Hats, three Coats, three
pair Shoes"[70] and other minor articles not worth more than $300 for that valuable tract of
land[71] which was the nucleus of what is now the Republic of Liberia.[72]

Arrangements were made for the colonists to take possession of their new home the 7th of February,
1822.[73] The territory, finally including ninety miles of coast lying between the Junk and
Sesters Rivers and extending nearly seventy miles into the interior, presented, on the one
hand, an excellent opportunity to work among the Bassa, Vey, Dey and Kroo tribes,[74] who numbered
about 125,000, and exhibited, on the other hand, many obstacles, for the natives were hostile,
and the rainy season was approaching, at the time when provisions were scarce.

The condition of the colonists was so appalling that many proposed to return to Sierra Leone.
Just a few more hours and the Cape would have been abandoned, but when the Agent went ashore
to prepare for departure he was informed by Lott Gary that he was determined not to go. Nearly
all the colonists were induced to follow his example.

In the event they suffered severely; nearly 1,000 natives attacked them in November, 1822,
but were repulsed. During this and similar encounters with the natives, which lasted through
the months of November and December, Lott Cary cooperated wisely with the Agent, Jehudi Ashmun,[75]
and, although several of the colonists were killed and wounded, with only 37 men and boys he,
on one occasion, drove back with considerable loss 1,500 wild and exasperated natives who were
bent on extirpating the settlement. Lott Cary compared the little company of disturbed settlers
to the Jews, who "grasped a weapon in one hand, while they labored with the other" to rebuild
the city. But he is said to have asserted: "There never has been an hour or a minute, no, not
even when the balls were flying around my head, when I could wish myself again in America."[76]

These colonists planted their church at Monrovia and soon had under way the nucleus of a flourishing
Sunday-school.[77] Cary extended his labors to communities far and near, and by 1823 had 6
converts.[78] The following resolution adopted by the General Missionary Convention speaks
for itself the sentiment of that body respecting the work of Cary and Teague up to May 7, 1823:[79]

     The committee states that the present condition and prospects of
     the mission are encouraging. Brethren Cary and Teague are at
     present much occupied in aiding in the establishment of the
     colony at Cape Mesurado. Their conduct has been good and that of
     the former, in particular, has been specially commended by the
     Agent of the Colonization Society. The committee recommends that
     an able white missionary be stationed, as soon as practicable, at
     Cape Mesurado. The mission has a double effect. While it tends to
     introduce the gospel into Africa, a mission establishment on the
     coast will essentially aid in the suppression of the slave trade.

In spite of the fact that his associate, Colin Teague, had returned to Freetown, Sierra Leone,[80]
Lott Cary was adding some few of the natives to the church. In 1824, he baptized 9. One by
the name of John from Grand Cape Mount, a town about eighty miles distant, proved a valuable
helper by the good influence which he exerted. Some word from Hector Peters[81] had touched
him and he came to the American settlement for instruction and baptism. Without being asked,
he related his experience to the church.

"When me bin Sa' lone," he began, "me see all man go to church house--me go too--me be very
bad man too--suppose a man can cus (curse) me--me can cus im too--suppose a man can fight me--me
can fight im too.--Well, me go to church house--the man speak, and one word catch my heart
(and at the same time laying his hand on his breast)--I go to my home--my heart be very heavy--and
trouble me too--night time come--me fear me can't go to my bed for sleep--my heart trouble
me so--something tell me go pray to God--me fall down to pray--no--my heart be too bad--I can't
pray--I think so--I go die now--suppose I die--I go to hell--me be very bad man--pass all turrer
(other) man--God be angry with me--soon I die--suppose man cus me this time--me can't cus him
no more--suppose man fight me--me can't fight him no more--all the time my heart trouble me--all
day--all night me can't sleep--by and by my heart grow too big--me fall down this time--now
me can pray--me say Lord--have massey. Then light come in my heart--make me glad--make me light--make
me love the Son of God--make me love everybody."

John was baptized the 20th of March, 1825. The church neatly dressed him, gave him an extra
suit, about $10.50, 3 Bibles and 2 hymn books and sent him on his way rejoicing.[82]

The impetus received by the church was amazing. The membership by 1825 had increased to 60
or 70 and two or three pious emigrants were assisting in the work. This same year, Lott Cary
directed the building of a substantial meeting house which would have been completed immediately
if nails and boards could have been procured.[83] In a letter from Monrovia,[84] dated April
24, 1826, he wrote a brother in Norfolk: "We dedicated our meeting house last October; it was
four weeks from the time we raised it to the time it was dedicated. It is quite a comfortable
house, 30 x 20 feet, and ceiled inside nearly up to the plates, with a decent pulpit and seats.
I feel very grateful to you for your services, and to the brethren and friends for their liberal
contribution."[85]

This progress of the church might, at first blush, seem to say that everything was in a state
of tranquility and peace. This is far from being the case. In the face of the record of Lott
Cary as a Christian, a pastor, a representative of the Richmond African Baptist Missionary
Society and a church builder in Africa, it is interesting to note the invective hurled against
him by Governor Ashmun in 1823. The Governor's phraseology is unique. "Wretched," "morose,"
"obstinate," "soured," "narrow," "disobliging," "moral desert," "a corroding temper," and "destitute
of natural affection," were some of the epithets used as over against "more obliging," "affectionate
husband," "display of tenderness," "sweet and profound humility," "promoter of every commendable
and pious design," "every laudable habit," "moral renovation," "habit of holiness," and "redeemed"
when an understanding was perfected in 1824.[86]

The cause of the misunderstanding was of long standing. Agents of the American Colonization
Society prior to Ashmun's time were accused of transmitting false reports to the board and
of appropriating to their own use the provisions and supplies of the colonists.[87] It is also
known that a commercial company of Baltimore, whose business it was to prosecute the African
slave trade, was jealous of the Society and tried to undermine it. In addition, the trials
and hardships incidental to founding the colony had reduced many of the settlers to want.[88]
The most ignorant could thus fathom their condition: "We suffer: if the Society have means
and does not apply them to our relief, it is without benevolence; if it have not means, it
wants power and in either case is unworthy of our confidence."[89]

This lack of power showed itself in the helplessness of the government to restrain the first
vestiges of insubordination and to enforce the law. Thereupon, the discontentment of Cary and
one or two others became widespread.[90] Probably the manhood consciousness of Cary would not
have asserted itself so soon had not the occasion arisen between August 31 and September 25,
1823, when the principal Agent attempted to redistribute the town lots of the earliest colonists
who alleged that they held them under a former sanction of the Agent and so refused to have
them redistributed. They resolved to appeal to the board of the American Colonization Society.[91]
Moreover, they openly avowed that they would neither survey nor cultivate any of the lots (thickly
covered with undergrowth) assigned to them nor aid in any public improvements[92] until they
should hear from the board. Six days later the Agent ordered the rations of the offending persons
to be stopped. Next morning a few[93] of the colonists assembled at the Agency House and vociferously
demanded the Agent to rescind his order. Ashmun was immovable. The colonists straightway hastened
to the storehouse where rations for the week were then being issued and each seized a store
of provisions and went home.[94] Lott Cary had no small influence and share in this seditious
proceeding.[95] Toward evening, the Agent addressed a circular "to all the colonists" declaring
that the impropriety of the morning's act would be communicated to the board. He further exhorted
all to go to work and not to commit such an offence again for their sakes in this world or
in the one to come. Lott Cary was not to perform any of his ministerial functions "till time
and circumstances shall have evidenced the deepness and sincerity of his repentance."[96] Gurley
states that the leaders of the sedition, led by Lott Cary, almost "immediately confessed and
deplored" their error.[97]

It seemed in 1824 that the affair of the previous year would be repeated when, on March 17,
the rations were reduced one half. The act was viewed by the colonists as oppression and they
openly reproached Ashmun. Through all of this period, the spirit of disorganization was working
so that the colonists furnished little support towards developing the government.[98]

In communicating the account of the disturbances to the board, Ashmun wrote, March 15, that
"the services rendered by Lott Cary in the Colony, who has with very few (and those recent
exceptions), done honor to the selection of the Baptist Missionary Society, under whose auspices
he was sent out to Africa, entitle his agency in this affair, to the most indulgent construction
which it will bear. The hand which records the lawless transaction, would long since have been
cold in the grave, had it not been for the unwearied and painful attentions of this individual
rendered at all hours--of every description--and continued several months."[99]

The General Missionary Convention was influenced very little, if any, by the report, if, indeed,
they had received it officially. At the annual meeting of the Board of Managers, April, 1824,
the committee on the African mission had "no hesitation in recommending a careful regard to
this mission, which though it may seem to slumber for a moment, in their opinion promises great
and extensive usefulness." The board recommended

     That a constant correspondence be kept up with the brethren there
     by which their minds will be encouraged, and their hands
     strengthened and through which information may be received of the
     state of the Colony, the progress of the cause, and of the
     earliest opportunities which may offer for introducing the Gospel
     more extensively into the heart of Africa.[100]

There is no further account of this misunderstanding other than that from the pen of Ashmun.
Mr. Taylor,[101] the biographer of Lott Cary, remarks: "He (Cary) was compelled, to some extent,
to act the part of a mediator between the rebellious colonists, who considered themselves injured,
and Mr. Ashmun, the Governor. While for a moment he might seem to act injudiciously, he possessed
too much noble and generous feeling to be guilty of a dishonorable act." The Rev. G. Winfred
Hervey[102] thinks that "in any controversy between mules and muledrivers, the latter have
several advantages among which one of the most important is that they have the exclusive use
of vocal attack and defence. Cary was too prudent a man to publish an apology for constructive
sedition; and as he has not left us his own explanation of any of the facts in the case, we
have not all the materials on which to base an impartial judgment."

The agitation at length had its effect. It was directly responsible for the establishment,
in 1824, of a new form of government which was approved by Cary and his fellow-citizens and
in which the colonists had a full expression.[103] Gurley[104] and Ashmun both testified that
Cary readily entered into the spirit of the new government.[105] Only eight days, from August
14 to 22, were needed to organize a government that should be energetic and feasible.[106]
"Beneath the thatched roof of the first rude house for divine worship ever erected in the Colony
stood the little company of one hundred colored emigrants, who had ventured all things to gain
for themselves and children a home and inheritance of liberty and before God pledged themselves
to maintain the Constitution of their choice, and prove faithful to the great trust committed
to their hands."[107] Despite the seeming repetition of the chagrin of past irregularities
in September, 1824, however, the board of the American Colonization Society passed a motion,
April 2, 1825, to organize, on the 18th of the next month, a permanent government for the colony.[108]

USEFULNESS OF THE MAN

During these times Lott Cary continued to increase his popularity by performing the pastoral
duties of the Providence Baptist Church as vigorously as he could.[109] He preached several
times each week, and, in addition, gave religious instruction to many of the native children.
A day school of twenty-one pupils was begun April 18, 1825.[110] By June, the number had increased
to thirty-two, nineteen of whom came from Grand Cape Mount, some miles distant.[111] Cary was
handicapped in this work by the lack of funds, by the demoralizing gin traffic of the Europeans,
by Mohammedanism, by the deadly climate and by degraded fetichism,[112] yet, in the course
of seven weeks, he taught several children to read the Bible intelligently, although he could
not devote more than three hours a day to this work.[113]

In the meantime, in keeping with the report of the Board of Managers of the General Missionary
Convention in 1823, Governor Ashmun wrote to the American Colonization Society, March 20, 1825,
that "the natives have universally a most affecting persuasion of the superiority of white
men.... I cannot hesitate to say that the missionary, or principal of the proposed establishment
(i.e., a religious mission for Africa), ought by preference to be a white man."[114] The little
colony of near 400 souls was suffering for an adequate educational program. Excepting Governor
Ashmun, there was not an individual there who had ever received a plain English education.[115]
Allowing that and granting that there were few intelligent Negroes in the United States,[116]
Ashmun would have appeared more hopeful of Negro leadership had he made his request to the
board more general.

Whether because of this appeal or not, it is singular to note that the Rev. Calvin Holton,
a graduate of Waterville College (now Colby College), offered his service to the board the
same year and, with 34 emigrants,[117] sailed from Boston in the brig Vine, January 4, 1826.
He was employed to establish and direct a Lancastrian system of education for (1) the children
of the colonists, (2) for the native children living in the settlement, (3) for the recaptured
Africans who numbered about 120, and (4) for the young men and women who were teaching or preparing
themselves for this profession.[118] His work was not of long duration for on the 2d of July,
1826, he died[119] and was succeeded early in 1827 by the Rev. G. M'Gill, "an intelligent and
experienced coloured Teacher from Baltimore."[120]

About this time the number of native boys who received instruction was only 50. These were
trained either to be interpreters to American and European missionaries or religious teachers.
Lott Cary had 45 scholars enrolled in his school at Monrovia.[121] He was assisted by a lad
of fourteen years and by the Rev. John N. Lewis, another missionary sent out by the Richmond
African Baptist Missionary Society, but who, from lack of adequate support, turned to other
business.[122]

Lott Cary had a large task to perform with this school. As a matter of fact, "the hopes of
the African tribes," said Ashmun,[123] "from Gallinas to Trade Town, are at present suspended
upon it. Most of the boys who attend it are sons of the principal individuals of the country,
and more than half can read the New Testament intelligently, and understand the English language
nearly as well as the settlers of the same age." The expense of a native boy was estimated
at $25 and of a girl at $20.[124]

Gurley believed that the schools were numerous enough and amply able to afford instruction
to every child in the colony. Although this instruction was compulsory, it is not altogether
evident, however, that at any place save Monrovia a real educational program was begun. Ashmun
related that about six out of every ten emigrants were illiterate and that just one pious individual
assisted by two or three utterly illiterate exhorters was the only instructor around the settlement.
"Not one in five of these people habitually attend, even on Sundays, such religious instruction
as they possess." Consequently, he adds that the moral power exerted was not sufficient to
offset "the demoralizing influence of corrupt examples."[125]

The Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society and Lott Cary, however, were expending their
funds liberally on the schools. The surplus funds in the colonial treasury plus the subscription
of $1,400 from the colonists (including $300 subscribed by Ashmun) were spent for education.[126]
Yet from all sources enough money could not be raised to continue all the schools begun. Cary,
in 1827, removed the day school from Monrovia to Grand Cape Mount. He made appeal after appeal
to send the light to Africa. To prove that the natives would sooner steal the light than miss
it he gives the following incident that occurred in removing the school establishment to Grand
Cape Mount:

"I had upwards of forty natives," he said,[127] "to carry our baggage, and they carried something
like 250 bars ($187.50); a part of them went on four days beforehand, and had every opportunity
to commit depredations, but of all the goods that were sent and carried there, nothing was
lost except fifteen spelling books; five of them were recovered again."

Mr. Cary's letter to Mr. Crane will explain somewhat the circumstances of the school at Grand
Cape Mount.

                                        June 11, 1827.

     On yesterday week, being our monthly meeting, I baptized one
     young man, and after preaching in the afternoon, we had the
     happiness to break bread together in the house of the Lord. I
     don't like to be too sanguine, but I think he will be a blessing
     to the church; his name is John Reavy (Revey)--came out in the
     first expedition, and has been engaged in teaching a native
     school on the Sherbro, with Nathaniel Brander, until the last two
     years, which he has spent at Sierra Leone.

     For I fear I may not have another opportunity to write you again
     soon, I must again call your attention to the immediate
     establishment of a school at Cape Mount. Since writing the fore
     part of this letter, I have received an order for books from Cape
     Mount, which I have sent. I requested, at the same time, the
     native Brother, John,[128] to come down immediately, and I would
     try and arrange business so as to send up a teacher with him; and
     on proposing the subject to Brother John Reavy, he is quite
     willing to go up to commence the school as soon as the Brother
     comes down. I expect to allow him $10.00 per month and find him.
     My means at present will not justify these engagements, but I
     know you will do what you can when there is an opportunity; if
     you cannot send out tobacco or other articles, send out the
     money. United States bank notes pass as well here as they do with
     you. I shall try to keep the wheels going until you can send out
     supplies. I want some writing paper and ink powder or ink, and
     wish the Society (Richmond) would send me a bbl. of single nails.
     You will please make my respects to all the brethren and friends,
     and accept the same for yourself and the Board.

                                        LOTT CARY.[129]

After many months of delay[130] the school was established November 10, 1827, at Big Town,
Grand Cape Mount. John Revey was in charge. "The school room," says Cary,[131] "is nearly fifteen
feet by thirty. We made arrangements to have worship in it on the ensuing Lord's day, and I
had the honour to address a very attentive audience twice, through brother John. After service
I informed the congregation that I should need their assistance the following day in preparing
seats, &c., and they turned out like men, and performed more labour by eight o'clock, than
I expected to have accomplished in the whole day. We got seats prepared for about 60 children
by 4 o'clock, and gave notice that as the school would be organized on the day following, at
9 o'clock, A.M., all persons wishing to have their children instructed were requested to come
at that time and have them entered, and the number received was 37. I read and explained a
short set of regulations which I had drawn up; and as I had the king and his head men present,
I got them to sign the articles of agreement in the presence of the whole congregation. For
twelve months I think the school will, of course, be expensive. The present arrangement is--I
agree to allow brother Revey $20 per month, and find him provisions, washing, &c."

Mr. Cary thought that by this arrangement the station at Grand Cape Mount would net better
results than the one at Monrovia. Neither he nor the Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society
were able to maintain both. Some funds were received[132] but it developed in about a year
that the school had to be given up for lack of funds and assistants.[133]

Other duties, moreover, required some time. Lott Cary realized from the beginning of the colony
that a missionary in Africa ought to be more than a corrector of moral ills and a "doctor"
of divinity; he would be fortunate indeed if he could mend human bodies. As a result, Cary
was constrained to forego much of the joy which he had anticipated from efforts to show men
the living Christ by accepting the position of Health Officer of the colony, August 31, 1822.[134]
He had no medical schooling but with the use of home remedies, patent medicines,[135] and common
sense, he was able to cure some. Until the 31st of August, 1823, he was practically the only
physician in the settlement (excepting Dr. Ayres who was present a part of the year 1822).
After that Dr. Ayres returned on the Oswego in the late spring of 1825.[136] He and sixty emigrants
who came with him were soon suffering from the disease of the country and had to rely on the
medical experience of Cary. Eight emigrants died[137] and by December, Dr. Ayres was compelled
to leave the colony. The climate was so unhealthy that hardly any one escaped its pestilence.[138]
When, in addition, the poor housing conditions, the inadequate sanitation and the scanty hospital
supplies[139] are considered, it is remarkable that so many escaped death.

Every ship[140] that brought emigrants meant more work for Cary. On February 13, 1824,[141]
one hundred and five emigrants arrived in the ship Cyrus and in less than a month every one
was prostrate with the fever.[142] "Astonishing," said Ashmun,[143] "that in this atmosphere
should exist causes so universal in their operation, as amongst all the varieties of age, sex
and habit, not to leave one in the whole number without disease, and that in less than four
weeks; and stranger still, that the blast should be so tempered to the strength of the constitution
of every individual, as only to have swept off three small children. Men may call these phenomena
in human life, the effects of the laws of nature; I choose to call them singular proofs of
the Providence of God over all his creatures."

When the brig Hunter arrived, March 13, 1825, with 66 settlers, nearly all of whom were farmers,[144]
all were stricken during the first month. Although Cary himself was confined to his house nursing
a severe injury, only a few children were fatally affected.[145]

Cary gratuitously spent about half of his time in caring for the sick of the colony. This fact
was a matter of course as no funds were specially designated for this purpose. Cary was financially
able to do such a thing. He had defrayed no small share of his own expense[146] in equipment
for Africa, and when the colonists were in need of medical aid, he spent much of his means
in this direction.[147] In 1825 he still owned a house and lot near Richmond which he was desirous
of selling.[148]

Lott Cary was so occupied with caring for the sick that his prospective trip to America in
the spring of 1826 had to be postponed.[149] He was also physician to Governor Ashmun. The
governor was very ill in May after an exposure of four hours in attempting to save the schooner
Catherine from destruction. "The prescriptions of our excellent and experienced assistant physician,
the Rev. L. Cary," the Governor said,[150] "under the blessing of Divine Providence, so far
succeeded as to afford complete relief, only leaving me in a very emaciated and enfeebled state,
about the end of the first week in July."

All of this was just part of the work that Lott Cary had set himself to accomplish. By his
unselfish labors and untiring efforts he had won the hearts of the natives. He had been indefatigable
in his efforts to uplift the colony. The morale of the settlement was greatly lifted. Drunkenness,
profanity and quarreling were unknown; the Sabbath was observed with strictness.[151] Nearly
the whole adult population had come under the influence of Christianity. On the site of a once
desolate forest consecrated to demon worship was erected the commodious chapel which stood
as a monument of the overthrow of heathenism and as a tribute to the Son of God.[152]

But in the sight of this landmark of Christianity, the slave trade was carried on extensively.[153]
In 1825 from eight to ten, even fifteen traders were engaged at the same time off the coast.
During the same season, a boat belonging to a Frenchman, having on board twenty-six slaves,
all in irons, was upset in the mouth of the St. Paul River and twenty of their number perished."[154]
Between October, 1825, and April, 1826, no less than one hundred and eighty Negroes were reclaimed
from slave traders and taught the Scripture.[155]

When Gurley visited the colony in August, 1824, he found the state of religion and morality
hopeful, defenses adequate, quiet Sabbaths and physical improvements which indicated that a
considerable amount of labor had been done. For twenty-two months following, the jails were
in disuse.[156] By 1826 the people had developed from inexperienced immigrants to efficient
citizens. No family was without ample food and wearing apparel. Wages were high and employment
could be found everywhere. The common laborers were receiving from $.75 to $1.75 a day, while
the mechanics got $2 a day. Houses were built and a telegraph system was soon to be installed.
There were also two corps of militia, an artillery battery of fifty men and forty infantrymen.
These had charge of the fifteen large carriages and three small pivot guns.[157]

A printing press costing more than $1,000, in addition to the salary of a printer, had been
sent out. The citizens of Liberia expressed their thanks by subscribing nearly $200 "toward
the immediate issue and support of a publick newspaper."[158] One thousand volumes of books,
a complete set of the North American Review, a gift of Editor Sparks, and many other useful
things were on hand.[159]

Economic effort, however, did not at first play as conspicuous a part in the missionary adventure
of Lott Cary as it did in the lives of the pioneers, George Liele and David George, who left
this country primarily to be able to make a living.[160] Nevertheless, the economic feature
developed after a time. The agricultural progress of the country was rapidly promoted. The
sultry and moist climate greatly accelerated[161] the growth of coffee,[162] rice and cassada.
The Rev. Colston M. Waring was the first to attempt farming on anything like a large scale.
His crop of rice and cassada on a ten acre farm failed and checked so bold an example from
all except Lott Cary. He, too, lost a promising crop in 1825 on the same kind of land because
of the birds and the monkeys.[163] This failure, however, showed him that either farming as
the natives adopted (scratching the surface of the ground with a sharp stick) or more improved
methods of thoroughly preparing the soil had to be tried.[164] In the following year, Cary
enlarged his farm, had it cleared, dug it up with picks and hoes, and, in June, sowed about
three bushels of rice to the acre. At the first cutting, on the 20th of October, it averaged
50 kroos (a measure varying from 3 to 5 winchester gallons) per acre.[165]

In one letter, he says:[166] "I have a promising little crop of rice and cassada, and have
planted about 180 coffee trees this week, a part of which I expect, will produce next season,
as they are now in bloom. I think, sir, that in a very few years we shall send you coffee of
a better quality than you have ever seen brought into your market. We find that trees of two
species abound in great quantities on the Cape."

On the 7th of July, 1825, Cary reported a discovery of gold in the sand near little Cape Mount.[167]
The appearance of gold was certain to develop the country commercially; some trade was already
being carried on. Endeavoring to participate therein, nine of the natives built a ten ton schooner
which carried from four to eight thousand dollars' worth of goods each trip.[168] Doctor Alexander[169]
relates that between the first of January and the fifteenth of July, 1826, fifteen vessels
stopped at Monrovia.

Nevertheless, there were some anti-slavery leaders in America who seriously questioned the
permanent utility and moral influence of the colony of Liberia. One of these anti-slavery groups,
composed of free Negroes of Philadelphia, was led by Richard Allen, the founder of the African
Methodist Episcopal Church.[170] In a letter to a gentleman in Richmond, Lott Cary makes mention,
September 24, 1827, of the agitation carried on by these Negroes of Philadelphia. "Before I
left America," he said,[171] "and ever since then, the coloured people in about Philadelphia,
have been making efforts in opposition to the scheme of colonizing the free people in Africa;
and as some of their very recent publications have reached this place, I felt that in justice
to the cause, and my own feelings, I ought to undertake to point out to them their situation."

Unfortunately the letter closes shortly after this but singularly enough our sources supply
an "Address, By the Citizens of Monrovia, to the free coloured people of the United States,"[172]
which no doubt is referred to in the letter. The name of Lott Cary is not attached to this
address, which boosts "the doings of the Colonization Society" and which points out the political,
social, economic, educational and religious advantages enjoyed by the colonists. Nevertheless,
the document could not fully express the sentiments of the colonists unless the feelings of
the leaders were given. It is not too much to presume that the address was gotten up by Lott
Cary, the outstanding leader of the colonists, but it is very doubtful whether he wrote it
in its present form. The correspondence of Cary reveals that he did not express himself so
clearly nor did he use so good English.[173] The antithetical style reminds one of the writing
of Ashmun.[174]

Through all of the many affairs which Cary performed, he continued pastor of the church at
Monrovia. A missionary society was formed in connection with the church in the spring of 1826.
Cary was elected president.[175] At the first anniversary[176] on Easter Monday, in consequence
of the failure of the Rev. Colin Teague to come from Sierra Leone, Lott Cary preached the introductory
sermon.[177] This society contributed $50 for mission work during the year 1827.[178] By the
following year, the church contained one hundred members and two ordained preachers, John Lewis
and Colston M. Waring, besides exhorters.[179]

FINAL WORK AND WORTH

Lott Cary was none the less interested and active in the welfare of the government. From the
first settlement in Cape Montserado, he was appointed Government Inspector at the same time
he was selected Health Officer[180] and consequently he knew something of the working of the
government. In September, 1826, he was unanimously elected vice-agent of the colony. The colonial
agent had great confidence in his judgments, decisions and loyalty[181] and left the affairs
of the colony in Cary's charge when he was advised in 1828 to return to America for his health.[182]

"I was able," Mr. Ashmun wrote to the board,[183] "to arrange the concerns of the Colony with
Mr. Cary, even to the minutest particulars, and I have the greatest confidence that his administration
will prove satisfactory, in a high degree, to the Board and advantageous to the Colony."

During the first six months, Cary's task was to see to it that every man and working family
were self-supporting. "To effect this object, they must be furnished with a few simple tools--to
pay for them if they can--if not, to receive them gratuitously. Their allowance must be withheld
if they neglect or negligently follow the improvement of their lands, and the building of their
houses. Much may be done by visiting the people separately, getting at their intentions and
circumstances and spurring, advising or reproving as they may require. I am persuaded it will
be useful, and in most instances possible to get at least all the men out of the public receptacles
and on their lands before the rains set in." Respecting the buildings of the United States,
those of the colony, the arms, forts, printing establishment, farms, Millsburg settlement,
finances, etc., other particular regulations were suggested.[184] Lott Cary kept Ashmun and
the American Colonization Society informed about the condition of the colony.[185] On his death
bed, Ashmun again expressed his confidence in Cary and urged that he should be permanently
appointed to conduct the affairs of the colony[186] which now contained upwards of 1,200 settlers.[187]

The only trouble that Cary had while he was vice-agent was with the natives.[188] The factory
belonging to the colony at Digby, a settlement just north of Monrovia, was robbed by them and
general hostilities threatened when satisfaction was demanded and refused. A letter of protest
to a slave dealer who had stored his goods in the house where stores of the colony had been
deposited was intercepted and destroyed by the natives. Immediately, Cary prepared to defend
the rights and property of the colony. He called out the militia and began with others, in
the evening of November 8, to make cartridges in the old agency house. In some manner, a candle
was accidentally upset and almost instantly the entire ammunition exploded, entirely destroying
the house. Eight people died; six of the number survived until the next day; Lott Cary and
one other until November 10, 1828.[189]

The unbelievable news of the death of Lott Cary spread like a mighty conflagration to the organizations
which he represented. The following is the resolution read and adopted at the annual meeting
of the Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society in 1829:[190]

     The loss which has been sustained, cannot in our estimation, be
     easily repaired. This excellent man seems to have been raised up
     by divine providence, for the special purpose of taking an active
     part in the management of the infant settlement. His
     discriminating judgment, his honesty of heart, and decision of
     character, qualified him eminently, for this service. But,
     especially, in relation to your society is his death to be
     sincerely lamented. It will be recollected, that he was a
     principal instrument in the origin of this society, and for
     several years acted as its recording secretary. A little more
     than eight years ago, he received his appointment, and sailed, as
     missionary, in company with brother Teage, for the land of their
     forefathers. His exertions as a minister in that land have been
     of the most devoted and untiring kind. In the communications
     which have been received by the Board, he seemed to possess the
     most anxious concern for the salvation of the perishing
     multitudes around him. Through his instrumentality a considerable
     church has been collected together which seems to be in a
     prosperous and growing condition. Sabbath and week day schools
     have been instituted for the instruction of native children and
     the children of the colony, which have proved eminently useful.
     We were looking forward with confidence to the more perfect
     consummation of our wishes, when that moral desert should rejoice
     and blossom as the rose; but God has seen fit to cross our
     expectations, in calling from his station this laborious
     missionary. It becomes us to bow with submission to the stroke,
     and to realize the saying of the apostle, "how unsearchable are
     his judgments, and his ways past finding out." Although we were
     not permitted to receive his dying testimony to the trust, we
     have the fullest assurance that our loss is his unspeakable and
     eternal gain.

At the sixth triennial meeting of the General Missionary Convention, 1829, the committee on
the African Mission made this report[191] which in some particulars was paradoxical:

     This excellent man (it began) went to Africa, under the patronage
     of the American Colonization Society, as well as of this
     convention.... Could he have devoted his whole time to our
     service much good might have been expected to have resulted from
     his labors. But he was under necessity to assist in its
     government and defense, as well as to act as its physician.

     It is a source of consolation to the friends of Mr. Cary that
     though his life was terminated in an unexpected moment and in a
     most distressing manner, the unwearied diligence and fidelity
     with which he discharged the important trust confided to his
     care--his zeal for the honor of religion, and the purity and
     piety of his general conduct have gained him a reputation which
     must live in grateful remembrance, as long as the interesting
     colony exists, in whose service he lived and died.

     Your committee cannot help expressing their regret that so small
     a portion of benevolent feeling has been exercised towards this
     mission, and that so little has been accomplished during the
     eight years of its existence.

The next item of this report is an appeal for "some brethren of competent talents" to go and
labor there.

There surely was ground for regret that so small a portion of benevolent feeling was exercised
towards this mission. Some individuals did contribute now and then; "A Georgia Planter" sent
a part of $10;[192] a "poor woman" of the Rev. H. Malcom's congregation sent $3 for the African
mission;[193] "a friend to Africa avails of jewelry for mission to Liberia, per Mr. E. Lincoln,
$6";[194] the Negroes connected with the First Baptist Church, Washington, sent $15[195] and,
no doubt, some others contributed.

It is not quite clear, however, why William Crane, still representing the Richmond African
Baptist Missionary Society in the Convention and the Rev. James B. Taylor, a delegate from
Virginia and later the biographer of Lott Cary, did not challenge the statement that so little
had been accomplished during the eight years of the existence of the African mission.

The Convention then adopted the following recommendation of the Committee:

     Resolved, That this convention cherish a grateful recollection
     of the self-denying labors of our late lamented missionary to
     Africa, Rev. Lott Cary, and that we sympathize with his family,
     the American Colonization Society, and the church at Monrovia, in
     the loss they have sustained in his death.

     Resolved, That it be recommended to the Board to take measures
     for supplying the vacancy occasioned by the death of Bro. Cary as
     soon as possible by an able white missionary, and that they
     endeavor to the utmost of their power to promote the success of
     this mission, as one in which the convention feel a special
     interest.

                                        S. CORNELIUS, Chairman.

It was not until 1832 that the Convention saw the error of its conclusion and declared that
it must depend "principally on colored persons, as missionaries and school teachers, in Africa."[196]
Despite this color-phobia of the Baptists, nothing can explain away the fact that Lott Cary
had lived helpfully and died honorably. Gurley[197] and Hervey[198] would make him a man of
genius who, had he possessed educational advantages, would have won a worldwide reputation
as preacher, as general or as chief magistrate. This square-faced, keen-eyed, reserved, cautious
black held nothing back. From Charles City County to Richmond, from slave to freedman, from
profligate to prophet, from sinner to saint, is a record that might have gone unnoticed; but
from America to Africa, from governed to governor, from missionary to martyr is Lott Cary.

For over a score of years the little village of Carytown was the only memento of the man. But
in 1850, the Rev. Eli Ball, an agent of the Southern Baptist Convention, while visiting all
the Liberian Baptist Mission stations, found with difficulty the final resting place of Lott
Cary. The next year a marble monument was sent out and placed over his grave.[199]

                                        MILES MARK FISHER

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This spelling seems more correct than either the short form, Lot Cary, used by the Rev.
D. Stratton, D.D. of St. Albans, West Virginia, in his "Life and Work of Lot Cary, Missionary
in Africa," or the longer form, Lott Carey, used by the Rev. James B. Taylor in "The Biography
of Elder Lott Carey" and by many other writers for the following consideration: There is no
trace of Cary spelling his name Lot Cary. In the American Baptist Magazine and Gammell's "A
History of American Baptist Missions" there are letters from or references to Cary marked Lott
Carey, which are no doubt presumptions on the part of the printer or writer that the name is
spelled like that of the Rev. William Carey. If, on the other hand, Lott Cary spelled his name
either Carey or Cary, that would only argue that his name would be better spelled Lott Cary
as a means of distinction from the Rev. William Carey. "The Biography of Elder Lott Carey"
written in 1837 is the source of much that is known of the man but seems to draw heavily from
the "Life of Jehudi Ashmun, late Colonial Agent in Liberia, with an Appendix Containing Extracts
from His Journal and Other Writings, with a Brief Sketch of the Life of the Rev. Lott Cary,"
written in 1835 by Ralph Randolph Gurley, Secretary of the American Colonization Society. Many
incidents of the life of Lott Cary are taken from the life and writings of Mr. Ashmun. It would
therefore seem consistent to follow his spelling of the name. In this work, the name, Lott
Cary, is used frequently--even signed to a letter to Mr. Gurley--and many references are made
to it by Mr. Ashmun who probably knew Cary better than anyone else. Only once in the entire
work, on page 126, never in the "Brief Sketch of the Life of the Rev. Lott Cary," is the name
spelled Carey. This could be a typographical error. Furthermore, Mr. Randall who went to Africa
as Governor of Liberia about a month and a half after Cary's death said, respecting a native
settlement, "I propose to have it called after him, Carytown." (The African Repository, Vol.
V, p. 1.) Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. I, p. 548, follows this spelling.

[2] This name is also variously spelled--Collin or Colin and Teague or Teage. The above spelling
is from the American Baptist Missionary Union in their Missionary Jubilee volume, pp. 215, 267.

[3] Proceedings of the Fifth Triennial Meeting of the Baptist General Convention, 1826, p.
22; Earnest, The Religious Development of the Negro in Virginia, p. 95; $150 was appropriated
for the mission May 23, 1823. Proceedings, 1826, pp. 22, 32.

[4] Report of the Board of Managers of the General Convention in The Latter Day Luminary, Vol.
II, pp. 396 ff.

[5] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[6] Hervey, The Story of Baptist Missions in Foreign Lands, p. 199.

[7] Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, p. 147; Peck, History of the Missions of the Baptist
General Convention in the History of American Missions to the Heathen, p. 443.

[8] Hervey, op. cit., p. 199.

[9] The African Repository, March, 1829, p. 11; Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 147.

[10] Hervey, op. cit., p. 200.

[11] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[12] Peck, op. cit., p. 443.

[14] The gallery was reserved for the slaves connected with the church and congregation. Hervey,
op. cit., p. 202.

[15] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[16] Ibid.

[18] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 148; Peck, op. cit., p. 443.

[19] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[20] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 148.

[21] Peck, op. cit., p. 443.

[22] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[23] Fifth Annual Report of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions in The Latter Day Luminary,
Vol. I, pp. 400f.

[24] The African Repository, March, 1829, p. 12.

[25] Ibid., Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 148.

[26] Cathcart, The Baptist Encyclopaedia, Vol. I, p. 288.

[27] The Missionary Jubilee, pp. 17, 18, 19; Tupper, A Decade of Foreign Missions, p. 875.

[28] Peck, op. cit., p. 444; The Missionary Jubilee, p. 214; Tupper, op. cit., p. 875.

[29] The outbreaks of Toussaint L'Ouverture in Hayti in 1789 and especially Gabriel in Richmond
had not died away. Gabriel in 1800 organized 1000 Negroes in Henrico County. The plot, however,
was betrayed by a slave Pharaoh and amounted to no lives lost except those of Gabriel and Jack
Bowles who were executed. A public guard of 68 policed the city for some months afterwards.
Cf. Ballagh, Slavery in Virginia, p. 92.

[30] From Article I of the Constitution of this body it is presumed that the Richmond Society
contributed "a sum amounting to at least one hundred dollars" for their membership fee.

[31] Proceedings of the General Convention, 1817, p. 134.

[32] Gammell, A History of American Baptist Missions, p. 256.

[33] The Third Annual Report of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions, p. 180.

[34] Proceedings of the Baptist General Convention, 1829, p. 34; Gurley, op. cit., appendix,
pp. 30, 32.

[35] Letter to Doctor Staughton, dated Philadelphia, April 30, 1818, in the Fourth Annual Report
of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions.

[36] Third Annual Report of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions, p. 180.

[37] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[38] August 5, 1816, the Negro Baptists of Warren County, North Carolina, contributed $5.15;
August 18, of the County Line Association, Caswell County, North Carolina, $.69; September
1, of the Shiloh Association, Culpepper, Virginia, $1.90; October 21, of the Pee Dee Association,
Montgomery County, North Carolina, $2.19; May 7, 1817, "a col. Wom." of Georgia, $1; June 2,
"Coloured Brethren" of the Sunbury Association, Georgia, $21; June 16, "a man of colour 15
cts.--a woman of col. 6 cts." and August 1, "a man of col. 25 cts."--The Third Annual Report
of the Baptist Board, pp. 146-149; The Fourth Annual Report of the Baptist Board, pp. 206, 208.

[39] The Fourth Annual Report of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions, pp. 206, 208, 210.

[40] Peck, op. cit., p. 444; Hervey, op. cit., p. 201.

[41] Cf. Journal of Mills in Spring, Memoirs of the Rev. Samuel J. Mills.

[42] Letter dated Richmond, March 28, 1819, to the Rev. Obadiah B. Brown, Washington City.

[43] The Missionary Jubilee, p. 215. II, p. 141.

[45] The Latter Day Luminary, Vol. II, p. 141.

[46] Peck, op. cit., p. 439; cf. also The Missionary Jubilee, p. 215. The constitution of the
Richmond African Baptist Missionary Society restricted its funds to Africa.

[47] The African Repository, March, 1829; Gurley, op. cit., appendix.

[48] This would have increased his salary to $1000 annually.

[49] Letter of William Crane to the Rev. Obadiah Brown.

[50] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 148.

[51] Russell, The Free Negro in Virginia, pp. 145-156.

[53] Ibid., p. 399; The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 341; Gurley, op. cit., appendix,
p. 159; Peck, op. cit., p. 439; The Missionary Jubilee, p. 215.

[54] Peck, op. cit., p. 444; Hervey, op. cit., p. 202.

[55] Hervey, op. cit., pp. 201f.

[56] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 149.

[57] Ibid., p. 148; The African Repository, March, 1829, p. 12.

[58] Hervey, op. cit., p. 202.

[59] Earnest, op. cit., p. 95.

[60] Journal of Cary in The Latter Day Luminary, Vol. II, p. 399.

[61] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. III, p. 181.

[62] Hervey, op. cit., p. 202.

[63] The Latter Day Luminary, Vol. II, pp. 397f.

[64] Peck, op. cit., p. 439.

[65] Gammell, op. cit., pp. 247, 249.

[66] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. II, p. 181.

[67] Alexander, A History of Colonization on the Western Coast of Africa, p. 245.

[68] Latrobe, Maryland in Liberia, p. 9.

[69] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, pp. 149f.

[70] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[71] The Fifth Annual Report of the American Society for Colonizing the Free People of Colour
of the United States, pp. 55-64.

[72] Liberia was named at the annual meeting of the Colonization Society, February, 1825. Fox,
The American Colonization Society, p. 71.

[73] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 149; Hervey, op. cit., p. 202.

[74] Warneck, Outline of a History of Protestant Missions, p. 193. VI, p. 341.

[77] Gammell, op. cit., p. 244; Peck, op. cit., p. 441.

[78] Peck, op. cit., p. 439; Gammell, op. cit., p. 244.

[79] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IV, p. 142.

[80] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 341; Gammell, op. cit., p. 244; Tupper,
The Foreign Missions of the Southern Baptist Convention, p. 277.

[81] A Negro Baptist preacher who accompanied David George to Sierra Leone from Nova Scotia
in 1792. For a detailed account cf. Rippon, The Baptist Annual Register, Vol. I, pp. 478-481.

[82] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. V, pp. 241f.; The American Missionary Register, Vol.
VI, pp. 222f.

[83] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, pp. 222f.

[84] At the annual meeting of the American Colonization Society, February, 1825, on motion
of General Robert G. Harper, the settlement was named Monrovia, in honor of the President of
the United States. Fox, op. cit., p. 71.

[85] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, pp. 244f. In the Report of the Board of Managers
of the General Missionary Convention, May, 1825, "Lott Cary ... states that hostilities ...
of the natives had ceased.... He asks for assistance to complete the work (on the church);
and the Board feel pleasure in recommending the case to the hearts of all who are interested
in the melioration of the condition of the African Race." Ibid., Vol. V, p. 216.

[86] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[87] Gurley, op. cit., p. 196.

[88] Gurley, op. cit., p. 213.

[89] Ibid., p. 214.

[90] Ibid., p. 213.

[91] Ibid., op. cit., p. 182.

[92] The laws of the Society required every adult male to work two days a week for the public
good while receiving rations from the public store. This rule was dispensed with providing
each colonist would cultivate his own land. Ibid., p. 186.

[93] Ibid., appendix, p. 150.

[94] Gurley, op. cit., p. 187.

[95] Ibid., appendix, p. 150.

[96] Fox, op. cit., p. 72.

[97] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 150.

[98] Ibid., pp. 190ff.

[99] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 150.

[100] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IV, p. 423.

[101] Hervey, op. cit., p. 204.

[102] Gurley, op. cit., p. 203.

[103] Gurley, op. cit., p. 214; Hervey, op. cit., p. 204.

[104] Ibid., op. cit., p. 215; ibid., appendix, p. 150.

[105] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 143.

[106] Ibid.

[107] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 49.

[108] Ibid. p. 246.

[109] Gammell, op. cit., p. 247.

[110] The Missionary Jubilee, p. 215.

[111] The Veys inhabit this healthy country and are very intelligent. They have a written language
although no books. Peck, op. cit., p. 441.

[112] Warneck, op. cit., p. 189.

[113] Peck, op. cit., p. 441.

[114] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 30.

[115] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 341.

[116] Cf. Jones, The Religious Instruction of the Negro in the United States.

[117] These emigrants with one exception were from Newport, Rhode Island. Eighteen of them
were, just before their departure and at their own request, organized into a church. Gurley,
op. cit., pp. 308, 310.

[118] Gurley, op. cit., p. 309.

[119] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, p. 368; Gammell, op. cit., p. 247; Peck, op.
cit., p. 442; The Missionary Jubilee, p. 215.

[120] Gurley, op. cit., p. 356.

[121] The schools and scholars in Liberia in 1827 were as follows:

  Rev. Mr. Gary's school for native children   45
  Rev. Mr. M'Gill's classes                    16
  Mr. Stewart's school                         44
  Miss Jackson's school                        40
  Mrs. Williams' school                        30
  Mr. Prout's school                           52

Gurley, op. cit., p. 350.

[122] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, pp. 272f.; ibid., Vol. VII, p. 166.

[123] Gurley, op. cit., p. 357.

[124] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. XXI, p. 183.

[125] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, pp. 32, 35, 36, 37.

[126] Ibid., op. cit., p. 356.

[127] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VIII, p. 144; cf. also Alexander, op. cit., pp. 248f.

[128] Baptized eighteen months before by Cary. He was a native evangelist at Big Town, Grand
Cape Mount and styled himself John Baptist. Letter of Cary dated Monrovia, June, 1827, to Crane.

[129] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VII, pp. 305f.

[130] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VIII, pp. 143f.

[131] Ibid., pp. 53f.

[132] The General Missionary Convention made a remittance of $90 on February 15, 1828. The
American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VII, pp. 170, 176.

[133] Peck, op. cit., p. 442.

[134] Alexander, op. cit., p. 181.

[135] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[136] The American Missionary Register, May, 1825, p. 142.

[137] Gurley, op. cit., p. 182.

[138] Ibid., p. 190.

[139] Ibid., p. 182.

[140] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[141] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 142.

[142] Peck, op. cit., p. 439; Stratton, Life and Work of Lot Cary, p. 3.

[143] Gurley, op. cit., p. 190.

[144] Gurley, op. cit., p. 232.

[145] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. V, p. 242.

[146] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[147] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[148] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 340.

[149] This trip was to influence the free people of color in the United States to emigrate
to Liberia. Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 151.

[150] Gurley, op. cit., pp. 340f.

[151] Peck, op. cit., p. 554.

[152] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, p. 216.

[153] Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, p. 157.

[154] Ibid., op. cit., p. 261.

[155] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IX, pp. 212f.; Peck, op. cit., p. 442.

[156] The American Missionary Register, Vol. VI, p. 142.

[157] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, p. 216.

[158] The Liberia Herald ran for three issues. Then the printer, Mr. Charles L. Force, died.
Ibid., pp. 214ff.

[159] Ibid.

[160] Rippon, op. cit., Vol. I, pp. 334, 482; Alexander, op. cit., p. 41; Crooks, A History
of the Colony of Sierra Leone, p. 36.

[161] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 66.

[162] Ibid., p. 56.

[163] Ibid., p. 131.

[164] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 132.

[165] Ibid.

[166] Alexander, op. cit., p. 247.

[167] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 126.

[168] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, p. 216.

[169] History of African Colonization, p. 225.

[170] Cf. Adams, The Neglected Period of Anti-Slavery in America, p. 92; Cromwell, The Early
Negro Convention Movement, pp. 3-5.

[171] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VIII, pp. 53f.

[172] Cf. Letters and Addresses of Lott Cary.

[173] Cf. especially Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, pp. 153, 157. In speaking of
going to Grand Cape Mount, Mr. Cary says, "I should have went up last year ... we may anticipate
a middling severe struggle from the Mandingo priests who have been for years propagating their
system of religion among that nation. They are a kind of Mahometan Jews--they are very skilful
in the Old Testament...." The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VII, p. 305. Moreover, there
is no known evidence that any other of the colonists could have written so well.

[174] Compare the Address of the Citizens of Monrovia to the free colored people of the United
States with the account given in Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, pp. 136-138.

[175] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VIII, p. 203.

[176] $1 was the annual membership fee; 45 names were enrolled and the money paid. $7.25 was
collected at the door. Ashmun contributed $5 extra. The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VII,
p. 305n.

[177] Ibid., p. 305.

[178] Ibid., Vol. VIII, p. 170.

[179] Ibid., Vol. IX, p. 195; Peek, op. cit., p. 443.

[180] On August 31, 1822, Alexander, op. cit., p. 181.

[181] The African Repository, Vol. V, p. 14.

[182] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 153.

[183] Ibid., op. cit., p. 385.

[184] Gurley, op. cit., p. 385; cf. Journal of Lott Cary in Gurley, Life of Jehu Ashmun, appendix,
pp. 153-156.

[185] Cf. Appendix L.

[186] Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 159.

[187] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IX, p. 212; Alexander, op. cit., p. 279.

[188] Alexander, op. cit., p. 261.

[189] The African Repository, Vol. V, p. 10; Gurley, op. cit., appendix, p. 160.

[190] Alexander, op. cit., pp. 254f.

[191] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IX, pp. 212, 215, cf. also p. 195.

[192] Cf. a letter to the treasurer of the Massachusetts Baptist Education Society in The American
Baptist Magazine, Vol. VI, p. 181.

[193] The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IX, p. 255.

[194] Ibid., p. 214.

[195] The American Baptist Magazine, p. 215.

[196] Proceedings, 1832, pp. 10, 33.

[197] Op. cit., appendix, p. 160.

[198] Op. cit., p. 207.

[199] Hervey,op. cit., p. 206.

COMMUNICATIONS

The correspondence of the editor often has an historical value as the following communications
will show:

                                             February 13, 1922.

     Dear Dr. Woodson:

     Your JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY has been so full of good material
     that I hesitate to call attention to two things in the last
     (January) number that seem unsuitable.

     The first is the leading article on Slave Society on the Southern
     Society. For more than thirty years I have been combating with
     all my might the theory of slave-holding sovereignty set forth in
     that article. It is the essentially Southern view--a magnified
     view and an unreal view. The article is practically a mild form
     of the panegyric of the slave plantation which has been the stock
     in trade of defenders of slavery for a hundred years.

     The reasons for slavery given on pages 1 and 2 do not accord with
     the facts, and if they were true would have minimized the
     protests against slavery, past and present. It is ridiculous to
     say that white men endanger their lives by working in the South
     when you consider how large a part of the cotton crop is raised
     entirely by white men.

     The description of what was said to be the "usual" type of
     plantation house does not in my opinion apply to more than two
     hundred or three hundred plantations in the South at the outside.
     I have traveled very extensively in the South and have never seen
     more than three or four such mansions. The testimony of Olmsted
     and other writers is that ordinarily the slaveholder's house was
     poor and that he lived in a very poor fashion. As for the twelve
     sons and daughters in the planters' families, and the fifteen to
     twenty-five children in the negro families, it is perfect gammon.
     Not one family in a thousand had such numbers. None but a very
     few of the richest planters lived in the profusion described on
     page four. As for the enrolment in colleges between 1859 and
     1860, and the incomes of the higher institutions, that is all
     bosh. Francis Lieber was a German by birth, found his service in
     South Carolina very uncongenial, and stood by the union. To
     compare slavery to apprenticeship is an affront. The day's work
     set down by Murat (whose history of the United States is a very
     obscure work) is contrary to evidence North or South. Regular
     nurseries were built only on a few large plantations. The
     arguments in favor of slavery on pages nine and ten are stated
     without qualification or contradiction. I deeply regret that a
     Journal of Negro History should admit an article so full of
     statements both untrue and dangerous to the Negro race.

     The experience of a Georgia peon "seems to me very doubtful. I am
     personally acquainted with the story of Dade's stockade, and have
     passed within a few miles of it, and I do not believe in the
     least that there is now, or has been in the past thirty years,
     any plantation in the South where families are brought up in
     servitude. The only Ponce-de-Leon spring that I know is in
     Florida, which is not on the road between Georgia and
     Mississippi. The man seems to think that Chattanooga is on the
     west side of the river. It is a dangerous thing to accept any
     such statement without thorough investigation and calling upon
     the relater to state exactly where these things happened, and
     what was his course of travel.

     I should not venture to write so decidedly but that you have done
     so much for the cause of the Negro race, and I don't like to see
     you give ammunition to the enemies of your race.

                                   Sincerely yours,
                                        ALBERT BUSHNELL HART.

                                           326 FLOWER ST.,
     CARTER G. WOODSON, Ph.D.,               CHESTER, PA.,
      The Journal of Negro History,            June 26, 1922.
        Washington, D. C.

     My dear Doctor Woodson:

     The following list of Negro delegates to the Republican National
     Conventions from 1868 to 1920, inclusive, from South Carolina,
     may be of sufficient interest for publication. As the proceedings
     of the conventions do not differentiate as to the racial identity
     of the delegates it is necessary that this data should be
     collected before it is too late, especially as it pertains to the
     Reconstruction period. While a reduction in the numbers of
     delegates from South Carolina, as well as from most of the
     Southern States, was made by the Republican National Committee in
     December, 1913, the State still sends a majority of Negro
     delegates:

      1868--Chicago, Ill., May 20-21.
          Robert Brown Elliott, Henry B. Hayne, Stephen A. Swails,
          Joseph H. Rainey, Wm. J. McKinlay, Robert Smalls,
          Henry L. Shrewsbury.

      1872--Philadelphia, Pa., June 5-6.

      At-Large--Alonzo J. Ransier.
          1st District--Stephen A. Swails, F. H. Frost, Henry J.
            Maxwell.
          2nd District--Robert Smalls.
          3rd District--Robert Brown Elliott, Wm. Beverly Nash.
               A. J. Ransier on Committee to notify nominees.
               At the Convention of 1872, General Elliott was called
            upon from the floor to address the convention. His
            speech will be found in the proceedings of the convention.

      1876--Cincinnati, Ohio, June 14-16.
          At-Large--Robert Brown Elliott, Richard H. Gleaves.
          1st District--Stephen A. Swails, Joseph H. Rainey.
          2nd District--Wm. J. McKinlay.
          3rd District--Wm. Beverly Nash.
          5th District--Lawrence Cain, Robert Smalls.
               Joseph H. Rainey on Committee to notify nominees.

      1880--Chicago, Illinois, June 2-8.
          At-Large--Robert Brown Elliott, Samuel Lee.
          1st District--Wm. A. Hayne.
          3rd District--Charles M. Wilder.
          4th District--Wilson Cooke.
          5th District--Wm. F. Myers, Wm. J. Whipper.
               Messrs. Hayne, Myers and Whipper went down to defeat
            with General U. S. Grant. All received medals for
            their loyalty.

      1884--Chicago, Illinois, June 3-6.
          At-Large--Samuel Lee, Robert Smalls.
          1st District--John M. Freeman.
          2nd District--Paris Simpkins, Seymour E. Smith.
          4th District--Charles M. Wilder, Wilson Cooke.
          5th District--Eugene H. Dibble.
          6th District--Edmund H. Deas.
          7th District--Wm. H. Thompson.
              Samuel Lee on Committee to notify nominees. Major
            John R. Lynch, delegate from Mississippi, was elected
            temporary chairman, the first and only time that a colored
            man ever presided over a Republican National Convention.

     1888--Chicago, Illinois, June 19-25.
          At-Large--Wm.
          3rd District--F. L. Hicks.
          4th District--Peter F. Oliver, F. A. Saxton.
          5th District--Charles C. Levy, Zachariah E. Walker.
          6th District--Edmund H. Deas.
          7th District--George E. Herriott.
              Paris Simpkins on Committee to notify nominees.
             Peter Oliver seconded the nomination of General Alger
             for president.

     1892--Minneapolis, Minn., June 7-10.
          At-Large--Edmund H. Deas, Dr. Wm. D. Crum.
          1st District--John H. Fordham.
          2nd District--Paris Simpkins, Seymour E. Smith.
          3rd District--A. S. Jamison.
          4th District--Irwin I. Miller.
          5th District--Wm. E. Boykin.
          6th District--Rev. Joshua E. Wilson.
          7th District--R. H. Richardson.

              E. H. Deas on Committee to notify presidential nominee.
            J. H. Fordham on Committee to nominate vice-presidential
            nominee.

     1896--St. Louis, Mo., June 16-18.
          At-Large--Dr. Wm. D. Crum, Robert Smalls.
          1st District--Robert C. Brown.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon.
          4th District--Charles M. Wilder.
          5th District--Wm. E. Boykin.
          6th District--Edmund H. Deas, Rev. Joshua E. Wilson.
          7th District--Zachariah E. Walker, John H. Fordham.
              E. H. Deas on Committee to notify presidential nominee.

      1900--Philadelphia, Pa., June 19-21.
          At-Large--Edmund H. Deas, Robert Smalls.
          1st District--Dr. Wm. D. Crum.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon, B. J. Dickerson. H. Collier.
          7th District--John H. Fordham.
              E. H. Deas on Committee to notify presidential nominee.

     1904--Chicago, Illinois, June 21-23. F. Myers, A. P. Prioleau.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon, E. J. Dickerson.
          4th District--Pratt S. Suber.
          5th District--Wm. E. Boykin.
          6th District--J. R. Levy, J. A. Baxter.
              Dr. Crum on Committee to notify vice-presidential
            nominee.

     1908--Chicago, Illinois, June 16-19.
          At-Large--Edmund H. Deas, Thomas L. Grant.
          1st District--C. M. English, P. T. Richardson.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon.
          3rd District--G. C. Williams.
          4th District--Dr. Wm. Tecumseh Smith.
          5th District--Wm. E. Boykin.
          6th District--J. A. Baxter, J. R. Levy.
          7th District--Wm. T. Andrews.
              Thomas L. Grant on Committee to notify presidential
            nominee.

     1912--Chicago, Illinois, June 18-22.
          At-Large--Wm. T. Andrews, J. R. Levy.
          1st District--Thomas L. Grant, A. P. Prioleau.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon.
          4th District--Thomas Brier.
          6th District--Rev. Joshua E. Wilson, J. A. Baxter.
          7th District--Dr. J. H. Godwyn.
              Rev. J. E. Wilson on Committee to notify presidential
            nominee.

     1916--Chicago, Illinois, June 7-10.
          At-Large--Dr. J. H. Goodwyn, John H. Fordham.
          1st District--Gibbs Mitchell.
          2nd District--Wm. S. Dixon.
          4th District--J. A. Brier.
          6th District--J. R. Levy.
          7th District--L. A. Hawkins.
              J. R. Levy on Committee to notify presidential nominee.
            W. S. Dixon on Committee to notify vice-presidential
            nominee.

      1920--Chicago, Illinois, June 5-9.
          At-Large--W. S. Dixon, Dr. J. H. Goodwyn.
          1st District--Gibbs Mitchell.
          2nd District--J. M. Jones.
          5th District--G. A. Watts.
          6th District--I. J. McCottrie.
          7th District--L. A. Hawkins.
              W. S. Dixon on Committee to notify presidential nominee.
            I. J. McCottrie on Committee to notify vice-presidential
            nominee.

                                        HENRY A. WALLACE.

           140 COTTAGE STREET, NEW HAVEN, CONN., June 26, 1922. I think there is especial need for exact and
     detailed information about the period of "reconstruction" in the
     South. Reviewing in my memory the whole period since the civil
     war I find a great change in prevalent opinion in the North
     concerning the events of the reconstruction. It seems to me that
     the champions of secession, of slavery and the southern
     oligarchy, have been heard in justification of everything they
     did and in arraignment of everything that defeated their designs
     with an unsuspicious confidence that has enabled them to mislead
     sentiment in the North, especially among the younger people. For
     example: a Yale professor of history had an article in the New
     York Times, a while ago, declaring that the constitutional
     amendments conferring citizenship on the Negroes were wrong and
     that the reaction against them in depriving the Negroes of the
     vote was justifiable; to which I wrote a reply, mostly in the
     language of Mr. Flemming, a native Southerner who had represented
     Georgia in Congress, arguing that the amendments were not only
     justifiable but indispensable, and the Times would not publish
     it, so that I had to give it to the Post. There is a prevalent
     opinion that the "carpet baggers" were a sort of monsters. I have
     known some of them as estimable men and practical public spirited
     citizens of a very high type: Judge Henderson of Wilcox County,
     Ala. for example.

     Now if you can go to the roots of history in this period and
     investigate the facts, with biographical sketches of leading men
     as they actually were and authentic records of things that were
     actually done, it might help to clarify history.

     The incessant whining and propaganda of Southern bigots devoted
     to the old regime naturally have an undue influence on
     sympathetic listeners. I am afraid that this influence will not
     be counteracted as it ought to be till Negro investigators,
     historians and journalists learn to tell their side of the story
     with greater thoroughness.

                                   Very truly yours,
                                              G. S. DICKERMAN.

                                 NEW BEDFORD, MASS., MAY 15TH, 1916
                                              Room 6, Robeson Bldg.

     DR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
         Washington, D. C.

     My Dear Sir:

     In reply to yours of the 8th, please find herewith a contribution
     in the line of my suggestion to Mr. Baker. I did not mean to
     imply I had much material of that nature, and what is sent is
     that I could readily find, and would need to take time to go
     through my papers to really know what I have. If you can use it
     all right; if not, consign it to the waste basket, and no
     complaint will be coming.

     What I had more in mind was this: In many communities can be
     found some one person who has contributed services of value to
     race, none the less appreciable from the fact that their
     interest and value seem circumscribed locally. That they are so
     limited I do not believe, but think of each as the centre of an
     ever widening, circling influence for good. To illustrate:

     Paul Cuffee was born at Cuttyhunk, Mass., in 1758; was an early
     defender of the rights of colored men; when the selectmen of the
     Town of Dartmouth, refused to admit colored children to the
     public schools, and to make separate provision for their
     education, he refused to pay his school taxes, was imprisoned,
     and when liberated, built a school house at his own expense, on
     his own land, employed a teacher at his own expense, and then
     opened his school without race discrimination, a privilege
     which his white neighbors availed themselves of as his school was
     more convenient and equally as good as those of the town. The
     result was colored children ceased to be proscribed along
     educational lines. He was a ship owner, builder and export
     trader. His story has been published at length, in one of our
     dailies, with all the documents in the case. It seemed to me that
     such stories would be of general as well as local interest. If
     you agree with me in this, Mr. Jourdain would without doubt
     forward the clipping to you.

     The first colored school-teacher in Boston, was Prince Sanders,
     Secretary African Lodge F. & A. M., the first Lodge of colored
     Masons in America. He taught a colored school in the basement of
     the old Joy Street Church from 1809 to 1812. The first colored
     school, private, was opened in 1798, at the residence of Primus
     Hall, corner of West Cedar and Revere Streets, Boston, and was
     taught by a white man, by name, Sylvester. Its curriculum was
     limited to the three "R's."

     I am sending you in mail with this a pamphlet copy of
     "Proceedings" etc., on pp. 12, 16, 17, you will find statements
     of services given by Prince Hall, of general as well as of local
     interest and value.

                                   Yours sincerely,
                                             FREDERIC S. MONROE.

DOCUMENTS

     LETTERS, ADDRESSES, AND THE LIKE THROWING LIGHT ON THE CAREER OF
     LOTT CARY[1]

                              PHILADELPHIA, January 6, 1621 (1821).

     The Board of Managers of the General Convention of the Baptist
     Denomination in the United States, to their coloured brethren,
     Collin Teage and Lott Carey, present the assurance of their
     sincere affectionate esteem. They have heard with pleasure, that,
     by a vessel about to sail from Norfolk to the coast of Africa, an
     opportunity is presented for accomplishing those benevolent
     desires which, for many months past, you have been led to
     entertain. At the present time, they possess a deep anxiety for
     your preservation in a country where so many colonists have
     frequently found a grave. They most fervently commend you to the
     gracious protection of that God in whose hand your breath is, and
     whose are all your ways. May you make the Lord your refuge, even
     the Most High your habitation. It is a source of much
     encouragement that you will be able to collect useful information
     from the experience of your predecessors; and it is hoped that by
     the advice of your brethren who have already reached the shores
     of your forefathers, you will be enabled to adopt the most
     prudent measures for the health and safety of yourselves and
     families.

     The Board earnestly recommend, what they cheerfully anticipate,
     that your conduct before your fellow passengers on the ocean, be
     pious and exemplary. Endeavour to secure their good will by every
     office of kindness; and, above all, cherish and discover a solemn
     concern for their everlasting salvation. Arrived in Africa, you
     will find much that will require patience, and prudence, and
     mutual counsel. You will have to bear with prejudices that have
     descended on the minds of the inhabitants, after having been
     cherished for ages, and to instil the sacred truths of the gospel
     with meekness and wisdom. While your conversation shall be
     without blame, the Board advise you in your ministry to dwell
     much on the doctrine of the cross, a doctrine which has been
     found in every age of the church of Christ, the power of God.

     Have as little to do as possible with what may be called the
     politics of the country. Be content with the silence so divinely
     exemplified in the Lord Jesus and his apostles to render unto
     Caesar the things which are Caesar's. Cultivate a tender regard
     for each other. If difference of opinion on any measures occur,
     never suffer it to produce alienation of affection. You have
     already had opportunities of improving your minds by reading, and
     the Board are gratified by the reflection that you bear with your
     books that are calculated to add to your general and spiritual
     knowledge.

     Give yourselves to reading still; and, above all, let the word of
     God dwell in you richly. Be much engaged in prayer. If troubles
     rise around you, the delightful thought that you have a Father, a
     Saviour, in heaven, with whom you are so happy as to hold
     communion, will not only soften their severity, but in a good
     degree elevate you above their influence.

     Let nothing discourage you. Ethiopia shall stretch forth her
     hands unto God. You are engaged in the service of Him who can
     make the crooked straight, and the rough places plain.

     The Board wish you, as you shall find opportunity, to write. They
     will rejoice to hear that a church, on the principles of the
     gospel, is founded as the fruit of your labours. They trust that
     at no distant period, many such churches will rise, and the
     solitary place be glad for them. They will be happy to facilitate
     your prosperity to the utmost of their power.

     They pray that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ may be with
     you, with your families, and with all who sail or settle with
     you; and that the American Colonization Society, and all its
     sister institutions, may be rendered instrumental in diffusing
     literary, economical, and evangelic light, from the Mediterranean
     to the Cape of Good Hope, and from the Atlantic to the Red Sea
     and Indian Ocean.

                                        By order of the Board,
                                   WM. STAUGHTON, Cor. Sec'ry.

     A RESOLUTION

     A communication having been received from the Petersburg African
     Mission Society, and also from brother Colston W. Waring, a
     preacher of colour at Petersburg, desiring the patronage of this
     Board in favour of the said Waring, as a missionary to Africa.

     Resolved, That the said communications impart pleasure to this
     body, and that the Board will cheerfully countenance and
     encourage the said Waring as their missionary to Africa, provided
     the expenses of his outfit, &c. can be met by his own resources
     and those of his brethren in that quarter.

     Sixth Annual Report of the Board, in The Latter Day Luminary,
     Vol. II, p. 134.

     A CONTRACT

     KNOW ALL MEN, That this Contract, made on the fifteenth day of
     December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
     twenty-one, between King Peter, King George, King Zoda, and King
     L. Peter, their Princes and Head-men, of the one part; and
     Captain Robert F. Stockton and Eli Ayres, of the other part;
     WITNESSETH, That whereas certain persons Citizens of the United
     States of America, are desirous to establish themselves on the
     Western Coast of Africa, and have invested Captain Robert F.
     Stockton and Eli Ayres with full powers to treat with and
     purchase from us the said Kings, Princes, and Head-men, certain
     Lands, viz: Dozoa Island, and also all that portion of Land
     bounded north and west by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the south
     and east by a line drawn in a south-east direction from the north
     of Mesurado river, We, the said Kings, Princes, and Head-men,
     being fully convinced of the Pacific and just views of the said
     Citizens of America, and being desirous to reciprocate the
     friendship and affection expressed for us and our people, DO
     HEREBY, in consideration of so much paid in hand, viz: Six
     muskets, one box Beads, two hogsheads Tobacco, one cask
     Gunpowder, six bars Iron, ten iron Pots, one dozen Knives and
     Forks, one dozen Spoons, six pieces blue Baft, four Hats, three
     Coats, three pair Shoes, one box Pipes, one keg Nails, twenty
     Looking-glasses, three pieces Handkerchiefs, three pieces Calico,
     three Canes, four Umbrellas, one box Soap, one barrel Rum; And
     to be paid, the following: three casks Tobacco, one box Pipes,
     three barrels Rum, twelve pieces cloth, six bars Iron, one box
     Beads, fifty Knives, twenty Looking-glasses, ten iron Pots
     different sizes, twelve Guns, three barrels Gunpowder, one dozen
     Plates, one dozen Knives and Forks, twenty Hats, five casks Beef,
     five barrels Pork, ten barrels Biscuit, twelve Decanters, twelve
     glass Tumblers, and fifty Shoes, FOR EVER CEDE AND RELINQUISH
     the above described Lands, with all thereto appertaining or
     belonging, or reputed so to belong, to Captain Robert F. Stockton
     and Eli Ayres, TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said Premises, for the use
     of these said Citizens of America. And we, the said Kings, and
     Princes, and Head-men, do further pledge ourselves that we are
     the lawful owners of the above described Land, without manner of
     condition, limitation, or other matter.

     The contracting Parties pledge themselves to live in peace and
     friendship for ever; and do further contract, not to make war, or
     otherwise molest or disturb each other.

     We, the Kings, Princes, and Head-men, for a proper consideration
     by us received, do further agree to build for the use of the said
     Citizens of America, six large houses, on any place selected by
     them within the above described tract of ceded land.

                              (Signed)
                                KING PETER, X his mark.
                                KING GEORGE, X his mark.
                                KING ZODA, X his mark.
                                KING LONG PETER, X his mark.
                                KING GOVERNOR, X his mark.
                                KING JIMMY, X his mark.
                              (Signed)
                                CAPTAIN ROBERT F. STOCKTON.
                                ELI AYRES, M.D.

          Witness, (Signed)
            JOHN S. MILL.
            JOHN CRAIG.

     AGREEMENT WITH J. S. MILL

     I HEREBY CONTRACT, for the consideration of one barrel of Rum,
     one tierce of Tobacco, one barrel of Bread, one barrel of Beef,
     one barrel of Pork, and one piece of trade Cloth, to give to
     Captain R. F. Stockton and Eli Ayres all my right and title to
     the Houses situated on the Land bought by them on Cape Mesurado.

     In Witness whereof, I have here unto signed my name, on this
     sixteenth day of December, one thousand eight hundred twenty-one.

                                           (Signed) JOHN S. MILL.

     Witness, (Signed)
       CHARLES CAREY, X his mark.
       WILLIAM RODGERS, X his mark.

     We promise to present to Charles Carey, one Coat.
                                           (Signed) R. F. STOCKTON.
                                                    ELI AYRES.

     The Fifth Annual Report of the American Colonization Society, pp.
     64-66.

     L---- C----.

     A black man, has been a member of this Colony since the beginning
     of the year 1820. He made a profession of religion in America:
     but never never since I knew him, either discharged its duties,
     or evinced much of its spirit, till within the last ten months.
     He was a man of good natural sense, but wretched in the extreme;
     and the cause of equal wretchedness to his young family. His
     wife, naturally of a mild and placid temper, failed in almost
     every thing to please him, or prevent the constant outbreakings
     of his morose and peevish humor. He was her tyrant--and so
     instinct with malevolence, the vain conceit of superiority,
     jealousy, and obstinate pride, as to resemble more an Arab of the
     desert, or a person destitute of natural affection, than a person
     by education and in name, a Christian. As a neighbor, his
     feelings were so soured and narrow, as to render him disobliging,
     suspicious, and equally an object of general dislike and neglect.
     His heart was a moral desert--no kind affection seemed to stir
     within it; and the bitter streams which it discharged had spread
     a moral desolation around him, and left him the solitary victim
     of his own corroding temper.

     Such an ascendant had these evil qualities over the other
     faculties of his mind as in a great measure to dim the light of
     reason, and render him as a subject of the colonial government,
     no less perverse and untractable, than he was debased and
     wretched, as a man.

     Several times have the laws, which guard the peace of our little
     community, been called in, to check the excesses of his turbulent
     passions, by supplying the weakness of more ingenuous motives.
     Still this person discovered, in the midst of this wreck of
     moral excellence, a few remaining qualities, on which charity
     might fix the hope of his recovery to virtue, usefulness and
     happiness. But these were few, and mostly of a negative kind. He
     was not addicted to profane discourse. He allowed himself in no
     intemperate indulgences. He observed towards sacred institutions
     a cold, but still an habitual respect. And, strange as the fact
     may seem, he was laborious in his avocations, even to severe
     drudgery, and equally a stranger to avarice, and a passion for a
     vain ostentation. Whether these relieving traits of his character
     were the effects of habit, produced by the influence of former
     piety; or whether they were the result of constitutional
     temperament, or of education, is not for me to decide. But such
     was L. C., until the autumn of 1824; when not only a reform but
     an absolute reversal, of every perverse disposition and habit in
     the revolting catalogue of his character took place. A more
     obliging and affectionate husband I am convinced is not to be
     found on the Cape, few in the world! And there is no appearance
     of constraint, or affection in this display of tenderness. It is
     uniform, untiring, cordial, and increasing, as far as it is
     permitted to any one, except the Searcher of hearts, to judge. In
     all his intercourse with his family, and neighbors, he carries
     with him, an inimitable air of sweet and profound humility. You
     would pronounce it to be the meekness of the heart springing from
     some deep-felt sentiment of the interior of the mind. But so far
     from abasing the possessor, in the estimation of others, this
     very trait commands their respect, and their love. It gives to
     him a value, which he never appeared to possess before. Ten
     months have I now had daily opportunities to observe this altered
     man in a great variety of circumstances, and some of them, it
     must be confessed, sufficiently trying. In one instance, I have
     had to regret, and censure the appearance of that perversity
     which made an important part of his character. But happily this
     fit of turbulence was of short duration; and some months have
     passed since, without witnessing a repetition of the infirmity.
     Were I this evening asked to name a man in the Colony, who would
     most carefully guard against offending, or causing even a
     momentary pain to any of his fellow-men, I should not hesitate to
     say that in my judgment, the man is L. C. On this point I insist,
     because it was precisely in his revolting and unfeeling
     churlishness, that his greatest and most incurable infirmity
     seemed to consist. I hardly need add, were silence not liable to
     misconstruction, that the duties and ordinances of religion are
     matters of his most devout and diligent observance. How often
     have I been awaked at dawn of Sabbath, by his devout strains of
     prayer and praise, sent up from the midst of a little company of
     praying people, who at that hour assemble for religious exercises
     in a vacant building near my residence. How sure am I to find him
     reverently seated in his place, among the earliest who assemble
     in the house of God. What an active promoter of every commendable
     and pious design, is sure to be found in him.

     Every laudable habit, which had survived the general extinction
     of all practical virtue, seems to have acquired additional
     confirmation: and from the operation of higher principles, seems
     to follow of course, and derive the best guaranty of its
     continuance. I might go on to particularize; but it would only be
     to fill up the outline already sketched, and which, whether
     relating to his former or his present character, however,
     imperfect, is strictly true. Ask of him the cause of so obvious
     and surprising a change, and he humbly, but unhesitatingly
     ascribes it wholly to the power of the Divine Spirit, operating,
     he cannot tell how, but evidently by means of the word and
     ordinances of God, upon his whole mind. Such was the origin of
     this great moral renovation, and such are the agency and means by
     which its effects are sustained, and under the operation of which
     they are beginning to combine into a habit of holiness. He
     rejoices in the hope of its duration to the end of life, solely
     he would say from the confidence he has in the immutable love and
     faithfulness of the Holy Being, who has wrought so great a work
     in him. And let philosophers cavil and doubt, if they must; but
     this man's example is a refutation in fact of a thousand of their
     sceptical theories. He is a new man, and the change was effected
     chiefly before discipline, or example, had time to work it. He is
     an honest man, and soberly asserts that to his certain knowledge
     he did not perform the work himself. But where is the example to
     be found of such and so great a change, wrought by mortal
     means? The history of the human race is challenged to produce it.
     To God then who created man, to Christ who redeemed him, and to
     the Holy Ghost who sanctifies him, be ascribed without abatement,
     or reserve, the power and the grace displayed in this and every
     similar instance of the conversion of a blind, and hardened and
     wretched sinner.

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, pp. 136-138.

                   "June 16th, 1827.
          "To the Rev. R. R. Gurley.

     "Rev. and Dear Sir, I transmit to you a few lines, which I trust
     may find you well. The last emigrants that you sent out, has
     fared remarkably well, as it respects the disease; we have only
     lost two children. We have several cases of bad ulcers; and from
     seeing advertised in the Compiler of Richmond, a medicine called
     Swaim's Panacea, said to be a sure cure for ulcers; please try if
     possible to procure some, and send out, for we should have very
     healthy inhabitants at present, but for the prevalence of that
     uncontrolable disease. We are also in want of Salts, Castor-oil,
     Cream of Tartar, mignesea, and Mustard, as much as you can send
     well put up. I am greatly in hopes to be over the next spring,
     and try to wake up my colored friends in Virginia. We have a plan
     in contemplation which if accomplished will, I think insure my
     making one visit to America, that is, to purchase, or aid in the
     purchase of a vessel to run constantly from this, to America, to
     bring out our own supplies, emigrants, &c. I hope sir, when such
     an attempt is made you will facilitate it all that you can.

     "I think that you would be pleased with the improvements that we
     have made since you left if you were to make another visit to
     this country--both our civil and religious state I think has
     improved very much. No more but wishing that the blessing of the
     Lord may attend you, both in your public and private life, and
     the Board of Managers, in all their administrations.

                                   "Yours, &c.
                                                  "LOTT CARY."

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, p. 153.

     APPENDIX F

                                   "MONROVIA, April 24th, 1826.

     "Rev. and Dear Sir: I received your letter sent to me by the
     order of the Board of Managers of the American Colonization
     Society; and I expected until a few days ago that the return of
     the Indian Chief, would have enabled me in all respects to have
     realized their wishes. But on a more minute examination of the
     subject, Mr. Ashmun and myself both were apprehensive that my
     leaving the Colony at present, would endanger the lives of a
     number of the inhabitants; Mr. Ashmun, however, has made a full
     statement to the Board, which I have no doubt will be
     satisfactory to them. I think that through the blessing of the
     Almighty, I shall be able to get the last expedition through the
     fever with very little loss; we have lost only three, the Rev.
     Mr. Trueman, from Baltimore, and two children belonging to the
     Paxton family. But the emigrants who came out in the Vine, have
     suffered very much; we lost twelve of them. The action of the
     disease was more powerful with them than is common--they
     unfortunately arrived here in the most sickly month in the year,
     February. I am strongly of the opinion, sir, that if the people
     of New England leave there in the winter, that the transition is
     so great, that you may count upon a loss of half at least. They
     may, in my estimation, with safety, leave in the months from
     April to November, and arrive here in good time; I think it to be
     a matter of great importance; therefore I hope, that you will
     regard it as such.

                         "I am respectfully yours,
                                            "Lott Cary."

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, p. 152.

In April, 1826, Lott Cary made arrangements to embark for the United States. The following
is extracted from a letter addressed by Mr. Ashmun to the Managers of the Colonization Society:

     "The Rev. Lott Cary, returning by the 'Indian Chief,' has, in my
     opinion, some claims on the justice of the Society or Government
     of the United States, or both, which merit consideration. These
     claims arise out of a long and faithful course of medical
     services rendered to this Colony, (the only such services
     deserving much consideration, if we except those of Dr. Ayres and
     Dr. Peaco, since the commencement of the settlement, in 1820).

     "It is perhaps known to the Board, that Mr. Cary has declined
     serving any civil office, incompatible with a faithful discharge
     of his sacred functions: and it may be added, that although one
     of the most diligent and active of men, he has never had the
     command of leisure or strength to engage in any Missionary
     duties, besides the weekly and occasional services of the
     congregation. More than one-half of his time has been given up to
     the care of our sick, from the day I landed in Africa, to the
     very moment of stating the fact. He has personally aided in every
     way, that fidelity and benevolence could dictate, in all the
     attentions which all our sick have in so long a period received.
     His want of science acquired by the regular study of Medicine, he
     has gone a long way towards supplying by an unwearied diligence
     which few regular physicians think it necessary--fewer
     superficial practitioners, have the motives for exercising.

     "Several times have these disinterested labors reduced him to the
     verge of the grave. The presence of the other physicians has,
     instead of affording relief, only redoubled the intensity of his
     labors, by changing the ordinary routine of his attentions to the
     sick with the exhibition of their own prescriptions.

     "Mr. Cary has hitherto received no compensation, either from the
     Society or the Government, for these services. I need not add,
     that it has not been in his power to support himself and family
     by any use he could make of the remnants of his time left him,
     after discharging the amount of duty already described. The
     Missionary Board of Richmond have fed, clothed and supplied the
     other wants of himself and family, while devoting his strength
     and time to your sick colonists, and Agents in this country.
     Justice seems to demand that he should be placed in a situation
     as an honest man, to refund the whole or part of the fund thus
     engrossed, not to say misapplied, to the Missionary Board.

     "I beg leave also to state, that on the 15th of February, 1826, I
     came into an agreement with Mr. Cary, to allow him a reasonable
     compensation for his medical services, devoted to the then
     sickening company of Boston emigrants. His time has from the date
     of that agreement, to the present hour, been incessantly occupied
     in attending upon the sick."

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, pp. 151f.

On the 25th of June Gary wrote to Ashmun:

     "About three o'clock to-day, there appeared three vessels--two
     brigs and a schooner. The schooner stood into the Roads, and one
     of the brigs near in, but showed no colours until a shot was
     fired by Captain Thompson; when she hoisted Spanish colours, and
     the schooner the same. All their movements appeared so
     suspicious, that we turned out all our forces to-night.--About
     eight this evening it was reported that they were standing out of
     our Roads; and at sunset, that the schooner had come to anchor
     very near the 'All Chance,' from Boston; and that the brig which
     had passed the Cape, had put about and was standing up, trying to
     double the Cape; and that the third vessel (a brig) was standing
     down for the Roads. The first mentioned brig showed nine ports a
     side. From all these circumstances I thought best to have Fort
     Norris Battery manned, which was immediately done by Captain
     Johnson. I also ordered out the two volunteer companies to make
     discoveries around the town, and the Artillery to support the
     guns, and protect the beach; which orders were promptly executed,
     and we stood in readiness during the night. At daylight the
     schooner lay at anchor and appeared to be making no preparations
     to communicate with us; I then ordered a shot to be fired at a
     little distance from her, when she sent a boat ashore with her
     Captain, Supercargo, and Interpreter. She reported herself the
     Joseph, from Havana, had been three months on the coast trading,
     but not for slaves, had one gun, and twenty-three men. Also,
     that the brig was a patriotic brig in chase of her, and that
     through fear she had taken shelter under our guns. The Captain
     wished a supply of wood and water; but I told him I knew him to
     be engaged in the slave trade, and that, though we did not
     pretend to attempt suppressing this trade, we would not aid it,
     and that I allowed him one hour, and one only, to get out of the
     reach of our guns. He was very punctual, and I believe before his
     hour."

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, p. 157.

A letter to the American Colonization Society through her Secretary, July 17th (1828):

     Until we can raise crops sufficient to supply a considerable
     number of new comers every year, such an arrangement (a vessel
     large enough to run down to Cape Palmas and occasionally to
     Sierra Leone) as will enable us to proceed farther to the leeward
     than we have ever done, in order to procure supplies, will be
     indispensably necessary; as there we can procure Indian Corn,
     Palm Oil, and live stock. For these, neither the slave traders
     nor others, give themselves much. Corn can be bought there for
     from fifteen to twenty cents per bushel. Fifteen or twenty
     bushels which I bought of Captain Woodbury, I have been using
     instead of rice for the last two months. Besides, it can be
     ground into meal, and would be better than any that can be sent.
     Upon the supposed inquiry, will not the lands of the Colony
     produce Corn? they will produce it in abundance; but with the
     quantity of lands appropriated at present, and the means to
     cultivate them, each landholder will, I think, be able to raise
     but little more than may be required by his own family, and
     consequently will have little to dispose of to new comers. (It
     has been resolved by the Board of Managers to increase the
     quantity of land alloted to each settler.)

     Permit me to inform the Board, that proposals have been made by a
     number of very respectable citizens in Monrovia, to commence a
     settlement near the head of the Montserado River, which would be
     a kind of farming establishment; which, should it be the pleasure
     of the Board to approve, would be followed up with great spirit,
     and found to contribute largely towards increasing our crops, for
     the soil is very promising.

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, p. 158.

     The first consideration which caused our voluntary removal to
     this country, and the object which we still regard with the
     deepest concern, is liberty--liberty, in the sober, simple, but
     complete sense of the word:--not a licentious liberty--nor a
     liberty without government--or which should place us without the
     restraint of salutary laws. But that liberty of speech, action,
     and conscience, which distinguished the free, enfranchised
     citizens of a free state. We did not enjoy that freedom in our
     native country, and from causes which, as respects ourselves, we
     shall soon forget forever, we were certain it was not there
     attainable for ourselves, or our children. This then being the
     first object of our pursuit in coming to Africa, is probably the
     first subject on which you will ask for information. And we must
     truly declare to you, that our expectations and hopes in this
     respect have been realized. Our Constitution secures to us, so
     far as our condition allows, "all the rights and privileges
     enjoyed by the citizens of the United States," and these rights
     and these privileges are ours. We are proprietors of the soil we
     live on; and possess the rights of freeholders; our suffrages,
     and what is of more importance our sentiments, and our
     opinions, have their due weight in the government we live
     under. Our laws are altogether our own; they grow out of our
     circumstances; are framed for our exclusive benefit; and
     administered either by officers of our own appointment, or such
     as possess our confidence. We have a judiciary chosen from among
     ourselves; we serve as jurors in the trial of others; and are
     liable to be tried only by juries of our fellow-citizens,
     ourselves. We have all that is meant by liberty of conscience.
     The time and mode of worshipping God as prescribed in his word,
     and dictated by our conscience, we are not only free to follow,
     but are protected in following.

     Forming a community of our own, in the land of our forefathers,
     having the commerce and soil and resources of the country at our
     disposal; we know nothing of that debasing inferiority, with
     which our very colour stamped us in America. There is nothing
     here to create the feeling on our part--nothing to cherish the
     feeling of superiority in the minds of foreigners who visit us.
     It is this moral emancipation--this liberation of the mind from
     worse than iron fetters, that repays us ten thousand times over,
     for all that it has cost us, and makes us grateful to God, and
     our American patrons, for the happy change which has taken place
     in our situation. We are not so self-complacent as to rest
     satisfied with our improvement either as regards our minds or our
     circumstances. We do not expect to remain stationary,--far from
     it; but we certainly feel ourselves, for the first time, in a
     state to improve either to any purpose. The burden is gone from
     our shoulders; we now breathe and move freely, and know not (in
     our present state) for which to pity you most, the empty name of
     liberty, which you endeavour to content yourselves with, in a
     country that is not yours; or the delusion which makes you hope
     for ampler privileges in that country hereafter. Tell us; which
     is the white man, who, with a prudent regard to his own
     character, can associate one of you on terms of equality? Ask
     us which is the white man who would decline such association
     with one of our number, whose intellectual and moral qualities
     are not an objection? To both of these questions we
     unhesitatingly make the same answer: there is no such white man.

     We solicit none of you to emigrate to this country; for we know
     not who among you prefers rational independence and the honest
     respect of his fellow men, to the mental sloth and careless
     poverty, which you already possess, and your children will
     inherit after you, in America. But if your views and aspirations
     rise a degree higher--if your minds are not as servile as your
     present condition, we can decide the question at once; and with
     confidence say that you will bless the day, and your children
     after you, when you determined to become citizens of Liberia.

     But we do not hold this language on the blessing of liberty, for
     the purpose of consoling ourselves for the sacrifice of health,
     or the suffering of want, in consequence of our removal to
     Africa. We enjoy health after a few months' residence in the
     country as uniformly, and in as perfect a degree, as we possessed
     that blessing in our native country. And a distressing scarcity
     of provisions, or any of the comforts of life, has for the last
     two years been entirely unknown, even to the poorest persons in
     this community. We never hoped, by leaving America, to escape the
     common lot of mortals--the necessity of death to which the just
     appointment of Heaven consigns us. But we do expect to live as
     long, and pass this life with as little sickness as yourselves.

     The true character of the African climate is not well understood
     in other countries. Its inhabitants are as robust, as healthy, as
     long lived, to say the least, as those of any other country.
     Nothing like an epidemic has ever appeared in this colony; nor
     can we learn from the natives, that the calamity of a sweeping
     sickness ever yet visited this part of the continent. But the
     change from a temperate to a tropical country is a great one; too
     great, not to affect the health more or less,--and in the cases
     of old people and very young children, it often causes death. In
     the early years of the colony, want of good houses, the great
     fatigues and dangers of the settlers, their irregular mode of
     living, and the hardships and discouragements they met with,
     greatly helped the other causes of sickness, which prevailed to
     an alarming extent, and was attended with great mortality. But we
     look back to those times as to a season of trial long past, and
     nearly forgotten:--our houses and circumstances are now
     comfortable, and for the last 2 or 3 years, not one person in
     forty, from the Middle and Southern States has died, from the
     change of climate.

     People, now arriving, have comfortable houses to receive them,
     will enjoy the regular attendance of a Physician in the slight
     sickness that may await them; will be surrounded and attended by
     healthy and happy people who have borne the effects of the
     climate, who will encourage and fortify them against that
     despondency, which alone has carried off several in the first
     years of the colony. But, you may say, that even health and
     freedom, good as they are, are still dearly paid for, when they
     cost you the common comforts of life, and expose your wives and
     children to famine and all the evils of poverty. We do not
     dispute the soundness of this conclusion neither--but we utterly
     deny that it has any application to the people of Liberia. Away
     with all the false notions that are circulating about the
     barrenness of this country. They are the observations of such
     ignorant or designing men, as would injure both it and you. A
     more fertile soil and a more productive country, so far as it is
     cultivated, there is not, we believe, on the face of the earth.
     Its hills and its plains are covered with a verdure which never
     fades--the productions of nature keep on in their growth through
     all the seasons of the year. Even the natives of the country,
     almost without farming tools, without skill, and with very little
     labour, make more grain and vegetables than they can consume, and
     often more than they can sell.

     Cattle, swine, fowls, ducks, goats and sheep, thrive without
     feeding--and require not other care than to keep them from
     straying. Cotton, coffee, Indigo, and sugar cane are all the
     spontaneous growth of our forests; and may be cultivated at
     pleasure to any extent, by such as are disposed. The same may be
     said of rice, indian corn, guinea corn, millet, and too many
     species of fruits and vegetables to be enumerated. Add to all
     this, we have no dreary winter here, for one half of the year, to
     consume the productions of the other half; nature is constantly
     renewing herself, and constantly pouring her treasures, all the
     year round, into the lap of the industrious. We could say on this
     subject more; but we are afraid of exciting too highly the hopes
     of the imprudent. It is only the industrious and virtuous that
     we can point to independence and plenty and happiness in this
     country. Such people are nearly sure, to attain in a very few
     years, to a style of comfortable living, which they may in vain
     hope for in the United States. And however short we come of the
     character ourselves, it is only a due acknowledgment of the
     bounty of Divine Providence, to say that we generally enjoy the
     good things of this life to our entire satisfaction.

     Our trade and commerce are chiefly confined to the coast, to the
     interior parts of the continent, and to foreign vessels. It is
     already valuable, and fast increasing. It is carried on in the
     productions of the country, consisting of rice, palm oil, ivory,
     tortoise-shell, dye-woods, gold, hides, wax, and a small amount
     of coffee; and it brings us in return the products and
     manufactures of the four quarters of the world. Seldom indeed is
     our harbour clear of European and American shipping; and the
     bustle and thronging of our streets show something of the
     activity of the smaller seaports of the United States.

     Mechanics of nearly every trade are carrying on their various
     occupations. Their wages are high, and a large number would be
     sure of constant and profitable employment. Not a child or youth
     in the colony, but is provided with an appropriate school. We
     have a numerous publick library, and a Courthouse,
     Meeting-houses, School-houses, and fortifications sufficient, or
     nearly so, for the colony in its present state.

     Our houses are constructed of the same materials, and finished in
     the same style as in the towns in America. We have abundance of
     good building stone, shells for lime and clay of an excellent
     quality for bricks. Timber is plentiful and of various kinds, and
     fit for all the different purposes of building and fencing.

     Truly we have a goodly heritage, and if there is any thing
     lacking in the character or condition of the people of this
     colony, it never can be charged to the account of the country. It
     must be the fruit of our own mismanagement or slothfulness or
     vices. But from these evils, we confide in Him to whom we are
     indebted for all our blessings, to preserve us. It is the topic
     of our weekly and daily thanksgiving to Almighty God, both in
     publick and private; and he knows with what sincerity, that we
     were ever conducted to this shore. Such great favours in so short
     a time, and mixed with so few trials, are to be ascribed to
     nothing but his special blessing. This we acknowledge. Judge then
     of the feelings with which we hear the motives and the doings of
     the Colonization Society traduced--and that too, by men too
     ignorant to know what that society has accomplished; too weak to
     look through its plans and intentions; or too dishonest to
     acknowledge either. But without pretending to any prophetic
     sagacity, we can certainly predict to that society the ultimate
     triumph of their hopes and labours; and disappointment and defeat
     to all who oppose them. Men may theorize and speculate about
     their plans in America. But there can be no speculation here. The
     cheerful abodes of civilization and happiness, which are
     scattered over this verdant mountain; the flourishing
     settlements which are spreading around it--the sound of
     Christian instruction, and scene of Christian worship, which are
     heard and seen in this land of brooding pagan darkness; a
     thousand contented freemen, united in founding a new Christian
     Empire, happy themselves, and the instruments of happiness to
     others--every object, every individual, is an argument, is
     demonstration of the wisdom and the goodness of the plan of
     Colonization.

     Where is the argument that shall refute facts like these? and
     where is the man hardy enough to deny them?

     The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. VIII, pp. 50-53.

     JOURNAL OF LOTT CARY

     The Colonial Agent, J. Ashmun, esq., went on board the brig
     Doris, March 26th, 1828, escorted by three companies of military,
     and when taking leave he delivered a short address, which was
     truly affecting; never, I suppose, were greater tokens of respect
     shown by any community on taking leave of their head. Nearly the
     whole (at least two-thirds) of the inhabitants of Monrovia, men,
     women, and children, were out on this occasion, and nearly all
     parted from him with tears, and in my opinion, the hope of his
     return in a few months, alone enabled them to give him up. He is
     indeed dear to this people, and it will be a joyful day when we
     are again permitted to see him. He has left a written address,
     which contains valuable admonitions to Officers, Civil, Military,
     and Religious. The brig sailed on the 27th. May she have a
     prosperous voyage.

                                             Thursday, March 27.

     Feeling very sensibly my incompetency to enter upon the duties of
     my office without first making all the Officers of the Colony
     well acquainted with the principal objects which should engage
     our attention, I invited them to meet at the Agency House on the
     27th, at 9 o'clock, which was punctually attended to; and I then
     read all the instructions left by Mr. Ashmun without reserve, and
     requested their co-operation. I stated that it would be our first
     object to put the Jail in complete order, secondly to have our
     guns and armaments in a proper state, and thirdly to get the new
     settlers located on their lands; as this was a very important
     item in my instructions. This explanation will, I think, have a
     good effect; as by it the effective part of the Colony is put in
     possession of the most important objects of our present pursuit;
     and I trust through the blessing of the great Ruler of events,
     we shall be able to realize all the expectations of Mr. Ashmun,
     and render entire satisfaction to the Board of Managers if they
     can reconcile themselves to the necessary expenses.

                                             March 29.

     From a note received from Mr. James, dated Millsburg, I learn
     that he visited King Boatswain, and that the new road from
     Boatswain's to Millsburg will shortly be commenced.--The Headmen
     expect, however, to be paid for opening the road. Messrs. James
     and Cook, who came down this evening, state, that the Millsburg
     Factory will be ready in a few days for the reception of goods,
     and wished consignments might be made early. But as I had been on
     the 27th paying off the kings towards the Millsburg lands, and
     found that one hundred and twenty bars came so far short of
     satisfying them, I thought best to see them together before I
     should attempt to make any consignments to that place.

     Know all men by these presents: That we, Old King Peter, and King
     Governor, King James, and King Long Peter, do on this fourth day
     of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
     twenty-eight, grant unto Lott Cary, acting Agent of the Colony of
     Liberia, in behalf of the American Colonization Society, to wit:

     All that tract of Land on the north side of St. Paul's river,
     beginning at King James' line below the establishment called
     Millsburg Settlement, and we the Kings as aforesaid do bargain,
     sell, and grant, unto the said Lott Cary, acting in behalf of the
     American Colonization Society, all the aforesaid tract of land,
     situated and bounded as follows: by the St. Paul's river on the
     South, and thence running an East Northeast direction up the St.
     Paul's river, as far as he, the said Lott Cary, or his successor
     in the Agency, or Civil Authority of the Colony of Liberia, shall
     think proper to take up and occupy: and bounded on the West by
     King Jimmey's, and running thence a North direction as far as our
     power and influence extend. We do this day and date, grant as
     aforesaid for the consideration (here follow the articles to be
     given in payment); and will forever defend the same against all
     claims whatsoever.

     In witness whereof we set our hands and names:
                                   OLD X KING PETER,
                                   LONG X KING PETER,
                                   KING X GOVERNOR,
                                   KING X JAMES.

     Signed in the presence of,
                            ELIJAH JOHNSON,
                            FREDERICK JAMES,
                            DANIEL GEORGE.

                                        June 18, 1828.

     I found it necessary, in order to preserve the frame of the
     second floors of the Government House, to have the frame and
     ceiling painted, which is now doing. I have also been obliged to
     employ another workman to make the blinds, or else leave the
     house exposed the present season, as ---- refused to do it under
     the former contract. On the 13th I visited Millsburg (named after
     Mills and Burgess) to ascertain the prospects of that settlement;
     and can say with propriety, that according to the quantity of
     land which the settlers have put under cultivation, they will
     reap a good and plentiful crop. The Company's crop of rice and
     cassada is especially promising. The new settlers at that place
     have done well; having all, with two or three exceptions, built
     houses, so as to render their families comfortable during the
     season. They have also each of them a small farm, which I think
     after a few months will be sufficient to subsist them. But I find
     from a particular examination, that we shall be obliged to allow
     them to draw rations longer than I expected, owing to the great
     scarcity of country produce, the cassada being so nearly
     exhausted, that it is, and will be, impossible to obtain, until
     new crops come in, much to aid our provisions, unless by going
     some distance into the country. Therefore I think it
     indispensably necessary, in order to keep the settlers to their
     farming improvements, to continue their rations longer than I at
     first intended; as I consider the present too important a crisis
     to leave them to neglect their improvements, although it may add
     something to our present expenses.

     The people at Caldwell are getting on better with their farms
     than with their houses. I think some of them are very slow,
     notwithstanding I have assisted them in building. The Gun House
     at Caldwell is done, and at present preparations are making for
     the fourth of July. I think that settlement generally, is rapidly
     advancing in farming, building, and I hope, in industry. Our gun
     carriages are done; the completion of the iron work alone
     prevents us from mounting them all immediately. We have four
     mounted, and I think we shall put them all in complete order by
     the end of the present week.

     Captain Russel will be able to give something like a fair account
     of the state of our improvements, as he went with me to visit the
     settlements on the 13th and 14th, and seemed pleased with the
     project at Millsburg, Caldwell and the Half-way Farms.

     Mr. Warner, who has been engaged nearly the whole of the last
     twelve months on business of negotiation with the native tribes
     to the leeward, is at present down at Tippicanoe, the place which
     I mentioned in my former communications, as being a very
     important section of country, since it would connect our Sesters
     and Bassa districts together. He is not, however, now engaged in
     business of negotiation, but only in business of trade.

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, pp. 153-156.

In a letter to Mr. Ashmun, Mr. Cary wrote:

     Things are nearly as you left them; most of the work that you
     directed to be done, is nearly accomplished. The plasterers are
     now at work on the Government House, and with what lime I am
     having brought down the river, and what shells I am getting, I
     think we shall succeed.

     The Gun House in Monrovia and the Jail have been done for some
     weeks; the mounting of the guns will be done this week, if the
     weather permits.

     The Houses at Half-way Farms are done; the Gun House at Caldwell
     would have been done at this time, had not the rain prevented,
     but I think it will be finished in three or four days. The public
     farm is doing pretty well. The Millsburg farms are doing very
     well. I think it would do you good to see that place at this
     time.

     The Missionaries, although they have been sick are now, I am
     happy to inform you, recovered; and at present are able to attend
     to their business, and I regard them as entirely out of danger.

     I hope we shall be able to remove all the furniture into the new
     house in two or three weeks.

Speaking of the celebration of the 4th of July under date of July 15th, Mr. Cary remarked to
Mr. Ashmun:

     The companies observed strictly the orders of the day, which I
     think were so arranged as to entitle the officers who drew them
     up to credit. Upon the whole, I am obliged to say, that I have
     never seen the American Independence celebrated with so much
     spirit and propriety since the existence of the Colony; the guns
     being all mounted and painted, and previously arranged for the
     purpose, added very much to the grand salute. Two dinners were
     given, one by the Independent Volunteer Company, and one by
     Captain Devany.

Mr. Cary wrote to the Secretary of the Colonization Society, July 19th, 1828:

     I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter,
     forwarded by Captain Chase of Providence, also your Report and
     Repository, directed to Mr. Ashmun, but owing to his absence,
     they have fallen into my hands; and permit me to say, that these
     communications are read with pleasure, and that nothing affords
     more joy to the Colony, than to hear of the prosperity of the
     Colonization Society, and that you have some hopes of aid from
     the General Government, which makes us more desirous to enlarge
     our habitation and extend the borders of the Colony.

     I must say, from the flattering prospects of your Society, I feel
     myself very much at a loss how to proceed, in the absence of Mr.
     Ashmun, with regard to making provisions for the reception of a
     large number of emigrants, which appears to be indispensably
     necessary. Therefore, after receiving your communication, we
     conceived the following to be the most safe and prudent course.
     First, to make arrangements to have erected at Millsburg,
     houses to answer as receptacles sufficient to shelter from one
     hundred and fifty to two hundred persons, I have therefore
     extended the duties of Mr. Benson so as to embrace that object. I
     was led to this course from the following considerations.
     First, from the productiveness of the Millsburg lands and the
     fewness of their inhabitants. I know if Mr. Ashmun were present,
     it would be a principal object with him to push that settlement
     forward with all possible speed, and that for this purpose, he
     would send the emigrants by the first two or three expeditions to
     that place. I think that those from the fresh water rivers, if
     carried directly after their arrival here, up to Millsburg, would
     suffer very little from change of climate. Second, the
     fertility of the land is such a temptation to the farmer, that
     unless he possesses laziness in its extreme degree, he cannot
     resist it; he must and will go to work. Thirdly, it is
     important to strengthen that settlement against any possible
     attack; and though we apprehend no hostilities from the natives,
     yet we would have each settlement strong enough to repel them.

     I am happy to say, that the health, peace and prosperity of the
     Colony, I think, is still advancing, and I hope that the Board of
     Managers may have their wishes and expectations realized to their
     fullest extent, with regard to the present and future prosperity
     of the Colony.

     Gurley, Life of Jehudi Ashmun, appendix, pp. 156-158.

Letter to the treasurer of the Massachusetts Baptist Education Society:

     Sir,

     Here is a mite enclosed for your society. It is part of the
     proceeds of a cotton field, for benevolent purposes. I helped to
     plough the ground, plant, hoe, pick, gin and pack the cotton with
     my own hands. A part of the proceeds is for the Colonization
     Society. My servants would shew their large white teeth, when, to
     encourage them to do their work well, I informed them that this
     cotton was designed to be a means of enlightening their brethren
     in Africa. Don't you think that Christians by and by, will act
     more like stewards with the property God has given them? I think
     it better to give now and then a mite, which the Lord may have
     bestowed upon me, to advance his cause, than to lavish it on
     profligate and dissipated sons. Will not God at a future day
     require the property he has loaned us?

     We see you Northern folks seem conscious of this, by the
     exertions you are using to advance the Redeemer's cause. This has
     become a fortunate legatee, in comparison with what it was fifty
     years ago.

     We, down here, so near the equator, think we can discover the
     upper limb of the millennium sun already. Will he not get clear
     above the horizon by 1866.

                                        A Georgia Planter.

     The American Baptist Magazine, Vol. IV, p. 181.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] These extracts were collected by Miles Mark Fisher.

BOOK REVIEWS

     The Master's Slave--Elijah John Fisher. By MILES MARK FISHER.
     The Judson Press, Philadelphia, Pa. Pp. 194.

This work is a biographical sketch of one of the most prominent Negro Baptist preachers of
his time. The author, the son of the subject of the sketch, believes that too little has been
said concerning the Negro Church, which is largely responsible for whatever advancement the
race has made. To stimulate interest in this institution and to give it the proper place in
the history of the race, this biography is given to the public.

The book contains an introduction by Dr. L. K. Williams, the popular successor of Dr. Fisher
at the Olivet Baptist Church in Chicago, where the latter faithfully served many years. It
contains also an appreciation by Martin B. Madden, Congressman from Illinois, who personally
knew Dr. Fisher and speaks most commendably of his character and achievements in that State.

The actual sketch begins with the chapter entitled "Bound and Branded," presenting the life
of Dr. Fisher during the slavery of the last decade prior to emancipation. Herein are set forth
interesting facts showing the connection of the Negro with Africa and his status in the slave-holding
South. The effects of the Civil War in this section appear also from page to page.

Then follows that part of his career when he as a youth undertook to secure an education by
which he might be qualified for the serious duties of life. How he began as a teacher during
the beginning of Negro education of the Reconstruction period, and how he finally became an
exhorter and developed into a minister acceptable to the communicants of his denomination,
make the story increasingly interesting. The sketch reaches its climax through a detailed account
of Dr. Fisher's work at Atlanta, Nashville, and Chicago, emphasizing the last mentioned as
the place of his most successful labor.

The historian will find this work valuable in that it illuminates one of the most interesting
periods of Negro church history. It is not only a sketch of one distinguished churchman but
a narrative presenting an important chapter of the story of the Baptists by relating the many
incidents connected with the leading churchmen and ecclesiastical organizations interested
in the uplift of the Negro since the Civil War. This narrative, moreover, shows how the Negro
minister, in keeping with the exigencies of the time, often had to be drawn into politics in
self defense and that in the case of unselfish service like that of Dr. Fisher, he may come
out of the controversy untarnished.

     History of the United States. Vol. V. By EDWARD CHANNING. The
     Macmillan Company, New York City. Pp. 615.

This is the most recent volume of Professor Channing's eight volume History of the United States
from the very beginning of our history to the present time. This particular volume covers the
years from 1815 to 1848 and is entitled "The Period of Transition." It is written in keeping
with the standard of thoroughness characteristic of the author and is made further informing
by the use of ten valuable maps illustrating important facts in American History.

In this volume the author engages the attention of the reader with an account of the wonderful
century in which he writes. He then discusses the westward movement of the population, urban
migration, the rise of labor unions, giving more attention to economic matters than his predecessors
have been accustomed to do in the treatment of this period. A study of the documentary history
of the United States has convinced the author that these important factors in the making of
this country have been neglected. His treatment, therefore, is a change in the point of view
in American historical writing.

This volume does not show the usual interest in slavery and abolition. Only one chapter of
this large work is devoted primarily to the plantation life and abolitionism. The author discusses
the lot of the slave, accounting for his tendency to escape from bondage, the traffic in human
flesh, the free people of color, the colonization movement in the South, and abolition in the
North. This chapter culminates in a discussion of the efforts of William Lloyd Garrison, the
agitating editor of the Liberator, of Wendell Phillips, the abolition orator, of Prudence Crandall,
the sacrificing worker, and of Elijah Lovejoy, the martyr in the cause. Prof. Channing does
not go into details as to the achievements of the abolitionists. His account is merely sufficient
to connect this movement with other forces at work in the country at that time.

Most of this volume is devoted to changes in religion, education, literature, and politics,
effected by such outstanding figures as James Monroe, John Quincy Adams, Andrew Jackson, Henry
Clay, John C. Calhoun and Daniel Webster. The book shows an extensive treatment of the territorial
expansion of that time, especially the efforts to secure Texas, California and Oregon, and
the war with Mexico. On the whole, this book has a decided economic and social trend. It is
an effort to account for the significant upheavals in our history through connection with important
industrial and economic events which have materially influenced the history of the United States
during the last century. The book emphasizes the fact that current history can not be easily
written, that one must be far removed from situations in the past in order to weigh the influences
having a bearing thereon to determine exactly how the country has become what it is today.

     Recent History of the United States. By FREDERICK L. PAXSON.
     Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. Pp. 588.

This book beginning with the inauguration of Hayes shows how he reestablished home rule in
the South, thus clearing the way for a realization of education and economic reconstruction
of both South and North. The author then treats the civil and border strife as expressed in
the Mexican Revolution of 1876, Indian wars, social unrest, national labor unions, and the
War with Spain. Then follows the treatment of post-bellum ideals as expressed by literary periodicals
and new writers showing a revolution in literature, and especially in historical writing.

In his treatment of silver, greenbacks, railroad and mine booms, and the like, he shows that
the country had reached a new stage in its development when a transition both economic and
political was apparent. This is made evident by his discussion of election frauds, Republican
factions, office holders in politics, the abuse of patronage and the necessity for civil service
reform. Next the author takes up the era of prosperity, the disappearance of the frontier,
the land grants to railroads, the development of the telephone, telegraph, typewriter, electrical
appliances, and the like, in their bearing on the industrial reconstruction of the whole country.

The author then discusses events more in detail, directing his attention to the tariff revision
of the eighties, the "Mugwump Campaign" of 1884, the Wild West, labor ideals, protection, populism,
the revival of the Democratic party through the leadership of Cleveland, industrial unrest,
political schism, the Spanish-American War, business in politics, the career of Theodore Roosevelt,
government control, insurgency, the rise of Woodrow Wilson, watchful waiting, neutrality and
preparedness, the United States in the World War, and the League of Nations. Some attention
is also given to the reconstruction and the election of 1920.

While the work is a valuable treatise from the point of view of a man who is trying to write
the history of a particular race, it does not come up to the standard of history of the United
States in all of its national and racial ramifications. So far as the Negro is concerned, it
merely refers to his undoing as a political factor in the Reconstruction, the efforts for his
education by northern sympathizers, the rise of Booker T. Washington, the elimination of the
Negro as a factor in the South, the efforts to pass a force bill protecting the Negro in the
exercise of the right of suffrage, and the continued control of the South of the Democratic
party. A foreigner who reads this work might wonder whether the Negroes by this political upheaval
have been exterminated or have emigrated from the country. Any student of the history of the
whole Southland knows that it is centered largely around the Negro and any historian failing
to take this into account cannot be recognized as an authority.

     The Backbone of Africa. A Record of Travel during the Great War,
     with some Suggestions for Administrative Reform. By SIR ALFRED
     SHARPS, K. C. M. G., C. B., formerly Governor of Nyasaland.
     London, H. F. & G. Witherby, 1921. Pp. 232.

This is the reaction of a public functionary to the scenes of colonial life as they appeared
to him from a different angle in a survey of the whole continent and under the circumstances
of a political upheaval. He had in mind here the regions of Rhodesia, Nyasaland, Tanganyika,
Ruanda, the Congo, and the Upper Nile. The book is illustrated, well written and suggestive
throughout. It contains four valuable maps and has an index largely of names.

Writing from the point of view of the exploiter of Africa, the author considers such questions
as the disposition of the German Colonies coming into the possession of England at the close
of the Great War, the question of restitution, the partition of Africa, the suggested union
of the Protectorates in Eastern Africa under a Governor General, the partition of German East
Africa, the redelimitation of boundaries, problems of railway construction and a united East
African Colony. He discusses also the Home Government, native taxation, local representation,
land along with land laws, native rights, their education, the labor problem, migration, industrial
questions, and missions.

Treating the colonial policy in dealing with the natives, the author shows some sympathy. He
does not believe that the tax on natives has been wisely imposed and, therefore, asks for a
uniform and more equitable system. To effect such a reform, however, he believes that the local
government with increased authority in its own affairs should exercise such power rather than
have such a policy determined by the Home Government through its appointive executive and legislators
who act for the colonies though not of them. The question of native ownership of spare land,
he believes, should be carefully considered, inasmuch as there has never been any real title
to the possession of definite blocks of freehold lands in Native Africa. Native education also
should be taken in hand and there should be adopted a suitable scheme, applicable to all the
Protectorates.

"In the first place in one shape or another," says the author, "we introduce a direct but immoderate
impost such as a hut-tax or a more general poll-tax, the money for which has to be earned.
Next, we endeavor to create new wants: clothes, ornaments, manufactured goods and luxuries
of all kinds. All this represents a gradual process of regeneration, as the native is by nature
very conservative and, therefore, slow to adopt new tastes or acquire ambitions. But we endeavor
to raise his ideals and to inculcate the view we ourselves hold: that man should not be satisfied
with mere existence, like beasts in the field, but should adopt civilisation and everything
that, in the main, we consider to be essential to civilised life. We ask him, therefore, to
produce something--other than for his own immediate wants--whether it be by labour done for
an employer, or on his own account."

NOTES

