The evening before Capt. L'Estrange's departure has come, and a few of the many friends he
has made during his short furlough spent with the Gordons are gathered there to make the last
hours of his stay such as shall afford him pleasant recollections in the future. Dorris makes
a charming little hostess as she flits from room to room, and at last pauses on the porch before
a group of three, L'Estrange, Endicott, and Lieut. Allen, an old friend who is home on sick-leave,
who welcome warmly and admiringly the slight, graceful figure in its white dress, with a bag
of red, white, and blue hanging from her dimpled elbow, a fancy of Dorris, enhanced by the
red and white roses and blue forget-me-nots in her hair,--flowers which she found on her spinning-wheel,
with no clew to the giver.

"Mon Capitaine Henri, Aunt Dorothy wants you for a moment," she says now. "They are all enjoying
themselves, so I came out here to rest. Lieut. Allen," she adds graciously, as her cousin disappears,
"I am glad that we are to have one representative of the army left after my cousin leaves us."

"I thank you, Miss Gordon," answers the young soldier, "but my stay is limited; you see I hobble
around now with the aid of a crutch. I only wish I could go with your cousin."

"L'Estrange is in your regiment, is he?" asks Endicott.

"Yes, we fought side by side at Saratoga. You know what a close conflict that was. Such a din
of shot and shell that an order could be scarcely heard in the tumult. It was hot work I can
assure you."

Dorris is leaning forward in breathless interest, and as he pauses asks a characteristic question:
"How did you feel then? What were your thoughts?"

"Well, it was a most absurd thing, but I found myself, though I could scarcely hear my own
voice, repeating a verse from one of the old cavalier ballads:--

  "'We were standing foot to foot, and giving shoot for shoot;
    Hot and strong went our volleys at the blue;
    We knelt, but not for grace, and the fuse lit up the face
    Of the gunner, as the round shot by us flew.'"

Endicott smiles. "But it was a good battle-cry, Allen. I remember your reciting verses at Cambridge
in your college-days, but it was generally 'A sonnet to your mistress' eyebrows,'--some fair
one who had conquered your heart for a week perhaps."

Dorris is not to be diverted from the absorbing topic of ball and bayonet, and returns to the
charge.

"But how did you feel when you were wounded?" she asks again.

"Oh, I did not know where I was hit. In the midst of the fight I wondered why I couldn't move
my left foot; it was like lead in the stirrup, and looking down I saw the mark where the ball
had struck, and the blood following it. It was a little quieter then, so I got the sergeant
near me to clip, and ease my foot a little. But you should have seen L'Estrange: he was wounded
then; and when the order came to charge he rushed on, waving his sword, with the blood dripping
from his arm. How the men rushed after him! And when he came back supporting another poor fellow,
and insisting on his being cared for first, you should have heard the men cheer him."

"And you, Allen," suggests Endicott,--"how did you get on with that wound of yours?"

"Well, I was rather faint by the time we were ready to go back to camp; but somebody set me
straight in the saddle when I reeled, and I managed to get back all right."

"But where was the surgeon all the while?"

"To tell the truth, I was so much better off than most of the poor fellows, Keith, I made him
help the rest. That was all."

"So you took the chance of enjoying a British surgeon's tender mercies, for the sake of men,
who, perhaps, could not live anyway. Allen, you always were a good-natured Don Quixote."

Allen laughed as if he saw something beneath the words which excused their lightness, but Dorris
frowned, as she looked admiringly at the manly fellow so ready to see his comrade's unselfish
bravery, so unconscious of his own. She often saw the wounded soldier leaning on Endicott's
arm, and their words seemed grave and earnest, while Endicott's face seemed for a time to lose
its cynical sneers. And then Dorris had relented, only to harden again at some irreverent words
of this incorrigible Keith. A sharp retort was on her lip now, but she restrained it as L'Estrange
once more joined the group, and the talk drifted into quieter channels, the young soldiers
a little graver than usual. At last L'Estrange spoke with tender regret of the peaceful scenes
he was to leave so soon behind him, and Endicott answered:--

"Yes; think of all the drives and walks and talks, and all the charms of civilized life you
forego, and then of the camp-life and forced marches, and chances of broken arms and legs,
which you endure, and all for that one sweet virtue,--patriotism."

This was too much for quick-tempered Dorris. Out flashed her words:--

"Mr. Endicott cares so little for that sweet virtue that he will enjoy your pleasures while
you fight his battles. If you will excuse me now I will return to the parlors;" and with little
head proudly erect, Dorris started to enter the house, entertaining the fond hope that she
had at last paid Keith for all his trials of her patience and patriotism. Alas!

  "The best laid plans o'mice and men gang aft a-gley;"

and some one had carelessly left a footstool on the porch, and as Dorris's foot struck it Endicott
was the one to spring forward and save her from falling. Lifting her eyes to acknowledge the
courtesy, she met such a look of quiet reproach that her "Thank you" came very humbly from
so proud a young lady; and when she reflected on the subject at that trying moment which we
have all experienced when we have regained our temper, and are taking a mental retrospect of
the occasion when we very foolishly lost it, it was in vain that she tried to justify herself
by repeating his sneering words. Remembering the look that followed them, she said, in self-abasement,
"I had no right to judge him," and in her humiliation avoided meeting him so successfully that
for several days after her cousin's departure she neither saw nor heard of him, until at last
she heard with relief that he had gone away for a short time, on receiving news of the death
of a cousin,--his nearest relative. But when week after week passed, and Aunt Dorothy had several
times wondered aloud what had become of Mr. Endicott, Dorris began to wonder as well, and to
miss the magnetic presence that made him so charming to all; indeed, she discovered, to her
own uncontrollable disgust, that she missed him even more than her cousin, whose warm and generous
nature had endeared him to all his new friends.

In the meantime Lieut. Allen called to say farewell to his former playmate, and the friend
of his later years. What if Dame Rumor said he cherished a latent desire for a nearer title
than either of these.

Allen said abruptly, "Dorris, for what are you waiting?"

"Waiting?" repeated Dorris, wonderingly.

"Yes; don't you remember

  "While year by year the suitors come
   To find her locked in silence dumb?"

"If it was any one but my old friend Max I should make you a very low courtesy, and say, 'By
your leave, fair sir, it is a matter of not the slightest consequence to you;' but I'll tell
you the truth and nothing but the truth: I'm waiting for my hero, Max."

"For your hero? Yes; I thought you were. And what is he like? A fairy prince like the Sleeping
Beauty's?"

"Don't be satirical: it doesn't suit you, Max," retorts Dorris.

"Satirical? I'm in the deepest earnest. Won't you describe him? I really wish to know."

"Well," began Dorris, "it is not exactly an easy thing to describe an imaginary person. He
is no fairy prince, Max, but a strong and earnest man, a true and noble soul; a man who, for
a good cause, would peril anything, a knight like Bayard of old: sans peur et sans reproche."

"Do you think you will ever find this ideal?" questions Max.

"No," is the prompt reply. "If there are such men, I have never met them. But I would far rather
wait for the dim ideal than try the commonplace reality."

"But is all the reality commonplace? Let me tell you a story, Dorris; I shall not bore you,
for it is not long: When I joined the army, in the first of the war, I went to tell an old
friend, and to take leave of him. He was a peculiar fellow, seemingly cold, light and satirical,
half-sneering at the ardent blaze of patriotism that was burning all around him, seeming to
have no intention of serving his country in her need. And yet I knew him to be the truest,
noblest, tenderest, and most loyal fellow among all my friends. He looked at me with real envy,
and then exclaimed: 'I wish to Heaven I could go with you, Allen!' and I answered: 'Why don't
you? I have never asked before because I knew you had some worthy reason.' After some hesitation,
he began: 'Because you have never doubted or questioned me I will tell you why I am here, when
every feeling is against my inactivity. You will keep my secret?' Of course I promised, and
he went on: 'You know I am very wealthy, Max, that my income is, for these times, extremely
large; but you do not know that, by my grandfather's will, the next heir, in case of my death,
is my cousin, a man who aids and abets the Tories in every possible way, a man unscrupulous
and unprincipled to the last degree. I have but one life; I might lay it down in my first battle,
and that property, over which I have no control, would be worse than useless to my country.
It would aid her foes, and, much as she needs men, she needs money even more. So I stay here,
and put my income, as fast as I get it, to the national use. You know what my income is. I'll
show you my expenses'; and he showed me the merest fraction--less than I spend myself, I began
to expostulate on his endurance of suspicion and blame for what might be so nobly explained,
but he would only say, 'Oh, it would sound quixotic and sentimental; and, after all, what does
it matter? I know myself that I am serving my country to the best of my poor ability.' But
at last, Dorris, he is rewarded, for he was born to be a soldier; and when, three weeks ago,
he received news of the sudden death of that cousin, he immediately enlisted, and is now serving
his country in the way he has so long desired. What do you think of such a man as he?"

"He is a hero," answered Dorris, steadily, though a suspicion, quick as a ray of light, had
flashed through her mind as to who this hero was. "A hero as true as any my fancy could paint.
Who is he--this noble friend of yours?"

"Keith Endicott," is the quiet answer, adding, quickly, as he rose to take his leave. "Forgive
me, sweet friend, that I could no longer bear that you should do injustice to him, for those
quick words of yours the last evening we were all together have rankled in my heart, as I know
they have in his, ever since."

Dorris was not too proud to acknowledge when she was in the wrong, and with winning grace she
said, as she gave him her hand:--

"I thank you for the lesson you have taught me, Max. I was wrong to judge him so hardly, but
be assured I will make full amends when we meet again."

Then the good-bys were said, the good wishes given, and the last of Dorris's three cavaliers
had left her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Summer has gone, and snow lies white upon the ground, and we find Dorris seated before the
old desk, whose secret drawer is no longer empty, but holds a faded cluster of roses and forget-me-nots,
writing busily in her diary a record not only of the day's doings but of the varying emotions
which each day brought to life. The words the busy hand is tracing are these:--

"Jan. 2, 1779. Yesterday was the beginning of the New Year, and as I wondered what it would
bring me,--joy or grief, pleasure or pain,--I saw a carriage come up the drive-way and then
stop, while the driver assisted to the door a figure in a soldier's uniform. In a moment I
was in the hall, and my arms around my brother--for it was my own bravest Roy. He had often
written us, but we received none of his letters: they were either intercepted or lost. But,
oh, how can I forgive myself when I think to whom I owe my brother's life! that, when Roy was
surrounded by enemies, and desperately wounded, it was Keith Endicott who rushed to his aid,
and, fighting against fearful odds, bore him alive from the field, at the cost of a sabre cut
on his own hand. It was he who saw Roy daily in his long struggle with death, and when that
dreadful presence was banished it was he who cared for his safe transportation home, to enjoy
the rest which is the only means of giving him back his old strength and vigor. And Roy almost
worships Keith, as well he may, saying he is the idol of the soldiers, who have dubbed him
the hero of the regiment.

"The New Year has truly brought me happiness, for my brother is with me safe once more; our
armies are fast gaining ground, our victories are more numerous, and hope dawns that the flag
of liberty will yet wave triumphantly over a free and happy nation; and I can once more mingle
a song and not a sob with the busy hum of my wheel."

       *       *       *       *       *

Two years have passed; Yorktown has been fought and won, and Dorris's hopeful words are verified.
The flag of liberty is unfurled over a free and happy nation,--a nation with its history yet
before it, with only its darkest and yet most glorious record traced indelibly on the annals
of the world. The New Year has come again, and Dorris, with her spinning-wheel, is wondering
what it will bring her. The door opens suddenly, and some one announces, "Col. Endicott, Miss
Gordon."

For a moment Dorris loses sight of everything but a tall figure in the quaint Continental uniform,
and only hears the old, light tones say, "Will the fair Goddess of Liberty welcome the soldier
as he comes back from fighting his own battles, as she bade him?"

And Dorris, with a blush for the memory he recalls, bravely confesses her fault and her gratitude,
and ends very humbly, "Can you forgive me, Col. Endicott?" stealing a look up at the grave face.

"Forgive you, dear child! Do you not know that I have loved you all the time? Now that you
know I am a little better than you thought me can you trust me for the rest? Can you love me
a little, sweet Dorris?"

There was no lightness now, only deep, loving tenderness; and Dorris answered trustingly:--

"I have been waiting for my hero, and I have found him, Keith."

And there we will leave them, while the dancing fire-light shows us the pretty scene beside
Dorris's dear little spinning-wheel, and the silvery beams of the rising moon bring to Dorris
the beginning of a new and happy life with the advent of a new year.

But ah, Great-grandmother Dorris, stately and demure in your lavender brocade, and your feathered
and powdered hair, do you know you were not so very unlike the Dorrises of to-day, after all?
And they have spinning-wheels, too, with their flax tied with blue ribbons. And think you that
these wheels see no romances? Ah, but they can't tell them, you know, pretty Grandmother Dorris.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

