  "Yes, I love you," answered Jenny;
    "But 'twas only yesterday
  That I said the same thing, Benny"
    (And she blushed), "to Robbie Gray."

POOR BEN!

BY SYDNEY DAYRE.

"Ha, Uncle Dud, I've found your lady-love's curl!"

His uncle drew near Hal, as he rummaged in an old desk.

"Ah," he said, "is that there? I haven't seen it for many a year, but now I remember putting
it there."

He took the short brown lock of hair in his hand, and looked at it with almost a tender interest.

"He saved my life when I was a boy, Hal."

"Who, uncle?"

"The one who wore this curl."

"Oh, tell me all about it; come, do, Uncle Dud;" and Hal laid his hand coaxingly on his uncle's
arm. "Was he one of your playmates?"

"Yes."

"How old was he when he did it?"

"I didn't know exactly his age. Ten or twelve, perhaps, or thereabouts. But there is the tea-bell.
I'll tell you about it after tea."

Uncle Dudley found his audience increased by four or five expectant boys and girls, who gathered
around him on the broad piazza, attracted by the rumor that "one of Uncle Dud's stories" was
in prospect. Little Elsie crept into his lap as he began:

"I don't think I have ever told you anything of my poor friend Ben, but he played a very important
part in many of the pranks and sports and joys and sorrows of my earlier boyhood. I think that,
outside of my own family, my attachment to him was the strongest I have ever formed. People
used to laugh at us, and call him my younger brother, we showed so much affection for each other."

"Was he a son of your neighbor?" asked Hal.

"No, not his son, but his home was with our nearest neighbor. It was never known who his parents
were. He came to Mr. Washburn's house one day, nobody knew where from; but he attracted the
attention of all by his fine bright, honest face. I shall never forget the look of his great
earnest brown eyes; I used to think they expressed more in a minute than some folks could talk
in an hour. Then he had soft hair--this you see--brown, with the least tinge of auburn through
it, and was most graceful in his movements. He would strike any one as a handsome fellow."

"What did he come for, uncle? Do you mean that he was a beggar? Did he ask for food?"

"He didn't ask for anything, but it was easy to see what he needed, and country hospitality
was not likely to wait till he asked. He staid about there a few days, and made friends with
every one. Before long he seemed to have quietly grown to be almost one of the family, and
I think they would have been as sorry to lose him as he would to go. He and I 'took to' each
other at once, and I owe many of the happiest hours of my boy life to his companionship, for
I had no brother near my own age."

"And did your parents really allow you to make a companion of such a little tramp?" asked Hal,
with a slight sniff, and a toss of the head which he conceived to be rather aristocratic. "How
did they know what kind of a fellow he might have been?"

"Well, they never seemed to fear any harm coming to me through him. Ben showed a much better
disposition than I ever did. He was very gentle in his manners, always inclined to yield to
me in everything, giving me my own way to an extent which unfortunately fostered my tendency
to be domineering and overbearing. It was this trait in my character which led to the incident
I am about to tell you of.

"In the summer vacations he and I--"

"Excuse me for interrupting you, Uncle Dud; but how did this Ben get along at school?"

"Well, he never went to school--"

"Never went to school? Why, didn't those folks he lived with give him any advantages?"

"--But I don't think any one seemed to consider him neglected. He was naturally very quick
of perception, and had a wonderful faculty of gathering information from his surroundings.
He seemed so well fitted for whatever duties fell to him, that I don't believe any one thought
it necessary to send him to school."

"What was he good for, anyhow?"

"He made himself generally useful and agreeable. He used to drive cows, dig in the garden,
etc., and as the family grew fond of him, they used to take him out with them a great deal."

"They must have been a queer set, though, to let him grow to be a man in ignorance."

"Ben never got to be a man. But I agree with you, Hal, that a man without education, or a boy
either, is a poor thing."

"Oh, did Ben die young?" said Hal, with a soberer face.

"Yes. I did take him to school with me once--what a tricky young rascal I must have been! He
walked to the school-house door with me, and I forced him in--much against his will it was,
but I always made him mind me. I seated him in the master's chair, and ordered him to stay
there, while I went to my seat. Of course the boys all laughed, and poor Ben trembled and looked
imploringly at me, but I shook my fist at him to make him sit still. Presently the master came
in. He was a quick-tempered man, and when he saw what was going on, how mad he was! He snatched
up a rule, but Ben was too smart for him. He sprang from the chair and went out of the half-open
window at one bound, with an awful crash of glass and sash, and was off swift as the wind.
Then the master tried to find out who was in fault, but could get no further than the truth
that he belonged to none of us. No one told of me, so I missed the thrashing which would have
been so willingly bestowed."

"I think it was right mean of you to treat Ben so, uncle."

"I think so too, and that wasn't my worst treatment of him, as you shall hear.

"A small river formed the boundary of one side of my father's farm. On its bank, in one spot
which was surrounded and sheltered by a thick growth of willows, Ben and I used to spend many
an hour. He was an excellent swimmer, and very fond of the water. One morning we were having
a merry time; we swam, dived, and rowed in the lovely sunshine. At last I picked up a piece
of wood and threw it to the other side of the stream, trying to hit a water-rat. As it left
my hand, I saw that it was a piece I had selected for the hull of a miniature boat, just suitable
for that purpose, being straight-grained and exactly the right thickness. I told Ben to go
and get it for me, but he was probably tired of play, for, for the first time, he refused to
do my bidding, and went and lay down under a tree. I was angry, and ordered him loudly and
roughly, picking up a stone and threatening him. He looked reproachfully at me, and turned
and walked quickly toward his home.

"Now throwing stones was one of my great faults. I can not tell how often my mother had scolded,
threatened, and punished me for it. Even at that moment there came vividly before me the remembrance
of a time when I had killed a robin, and brought it and showed her what I had done--for I must
do myself the justice to say I was always frank in confessing my faults. She took the poor
dead bird in her hands, and with tears in her eyes talked to me in a tone of deeper anger and
sorrow than I had ever heard from her.

"'They are God's little creatures. They are dumb, except for the sweet songs they bring us.
They are helpless, except as their helplessness appeals to human beings for pity and protection.
I believe the Lord's blessing will never rest on those who are cruel to things weaker than
themselves.'

"I was really sorry, and wanted to tell her so, but a spirit of pride tempted me to 'brave
it out,' so I said, with a poor attempt at a laugh, 'Oh, I'm sorry, of course, but you know
it comes natural to boys to throw stones.'

"If I had been at all decent about it, she would have forgiven me at once; but, ah me! I never
saw her move so quickly as when she went out the back door and broke off a supple green apple
switch. After making most vigorous use of it she sent me to my room, with the remark, 'It fortunately
comes natural to mothers to punish.'

"I spent the rest of the day there, and as I feasted on bread and water, and realized that
there was company to tea, and that my whole being craved spring chicken, jelly cake, and quince
preserves, I made up my mind that in future there would be one boy to whom it would come less
'natural' to throw stones.

"All this passed through my mind as I stood with the stone in my hand. But my tyrannical temper
mastered me, and as Ben turned and looked back, I flung it at him. I did not mean to hit his
head, but there was where it struck, in the brown hair just above one eye. I saw the blood
trickle from a cut, as with a sharp cry of pain he ran away and disappeared. I was shocked
at what I had done, but you know there are some conditions of mind in which self-reproach only
makes anger hotter. I did not obey my impulse to follow the poor fellow, but threw off my jacket
and plunged into the stream to recover the block I wanted. I suppose I had already been too
long in the water, for when about half way over I was seized with a cramp. In a moment I became
helpless, and screamed wildly as I felt myself going down--down--down. I arose to the surface
again too nearly drowned to scream any more, but with just sense enough left to feel myself
seized by something. That was the last I knew.

"But I was afterward told how my father and some of the farm hands came rushing down just in
time to see Ben panting, almost exhausted, as he drew me to the shore. There was blood on my
face, which added to my mother's great alarm when I was carried to her. Not my blood, as you
may guess, but poor Ben's--the result of my cruel blow.

"There is not much more to tell. I was in bed several days after it. The first time Ben came
to see me I put my arms around his neck, and begged him to forgive me."

"What did he say?"

"Not a word. He never was a talker. But I knew by his clear, earnest eyes that he had never
harbored a hard thought of me. I need not tell you I treated him more kindly after that. We
continued, if possible, closer friends than ever, till I was sent away to school."

"And you say Ben did not live to be a man, uncle?" said Hal, whose interest in the "little
tramp" had greatly increased. "How old was he when he died? Tell us about it, please."

"His death was a very sad occurrence, taking place the same season I left home. One night a
suspicious-looking person came prowling about Mr. Washburn's place. Ben was the first to hear
him--he always seemed to have one ear open when the interests of his friends were concerned--and
ran toward him, making all the noise he could to arouse the family. The brave fellow seized
hold of the marauder, who drew a revolver, and beat him about the head, and as he still held
on, shot him."

A murmur of regret and indignation arose from the little audience.

"The man made off, and Ben was found to be not dead, but terribly injured: a leg was broken,
and his head fearfully bruised. All that kind care could do for him was done, but it soon appeared
that he was beyond all hope of recovery, and to put an end to his sufferings another bullet--this
time aimed in sorrowful kindness--did its quick work on the life of poor Ben."

"What's that?" cried Hal, starting up. "Do you mean that they shot him? Killed a boy because
he was badly hurt? I never heard of such--"

"Boy?" said his uncle, looking at him in great surprise. Then he went on: "When I heard of
it, it almost broke my heart; and the first time I went home after it, and no Ben came bounding
to meet me, wagging his tail, and with a face beaming welcome, I felt as though I had--"

"Hey, uncle! Wagging his tail? Whose tail? What are you talking about? Haven't you been telling
us about a boy all this time?"

"Yes. I was a boy. But Ben was not."

"A--dog!"

Hal threw himself on the grass-plot and shouted with laughter, all his sympathy for Ben lost
in his amusement at this unexpected disclosure.

"Oh, Uncle Dud! you're too much for me. 'Never went to school,' 'never grew to be a man'--oh
no. 'No talker,' 'didn't ask for anything'--modest fellow! Oh, that's too good!"

Boys and girls had a hearty laugh, and ran away to play hide-and-seek in the summer twilight--all
but little Elsie, who tenderly stroked the brown curl, and laid it against her soft cheek,
sighing, "Poor Ben! poo-oor doggie!"

"North African pirates are out on the Mediterranean Sea; our budding commerce there is in danger;
we must have a navy to protect it," wrote a distinguished American in Europe to Alexander Hamilton.
President Washington called the attention of Congress to the matter, and in the spring of 1794
he was authorized to have six frigates built, each carrying not less than thirty-two cannon.
The keel of the Constitution (yet afloat) was soon laid at Boston, and so the creation of the
Navy of the United States was begun.

To the heroes of the Continental Navy the people looked for commanders of the new frigates,
and Barry, Nicholson, Talbot, Barney, Dale, and Truxton, all of whom had done gallant service
in the war for independence, were chosen.

The building of the frigates was unwisely suspended in the fall of 1795. "Pay me so many hundred
thousand dollars every year, and I will let your ships alone," said the piratical ruler of
Algiers. The terms were agreed to. Congress seemed to think that now all danger to commerce
was overpast, and a navy would be an extravagant toy. But when, not long afterward, French
cruisers seized American ships, and English cruisers claimed the right (and exercised it) to
take seamen from our vessels without leave, Congress perceived the folly of their humiliating
action.

War with France was threatened in the spring of 1798. The startled Congress ordered the six
frigates to be finished, and more to be built or purchased. A Navy Department was organized,
and a Secretary of the Navy appointed. Recruits were called for. The navy became very popular,
and the ships were soon filled, with the sons of the best families in the land holding the
rank of midshipmen.

The first vessel of the new navy that went to sea was the Ganges, twenty-four guns. She was
to protect the ports of New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore against French cruisers. Toward
midsummer (1798), Congress authorized the seizure of French armed vessels found prowling along
our coasts. For this purpose Truxton, with the Constellation, and Decatur the elder, with the
Delaware, immediately went to sea. Decatur soon returned with the French cruiser Le Croyable
as a prize. She was added to the navy, named Retaliation, and put under the command of Lieutenant
Bainbridge. Captain Barry, with the frigate United States, soon followed, with many young men
who afterward became distinguished in their country's service. Before the end of the year nearly
the whole American navy was among the West India Islands, engaged in convoying merchantmen
to and from the United States. This sudden appearance on the sea of a new naval power astonished
the English and the French, and made both more cautious.

