"The school to which they belong is one which has latterly gathered to itself a very large
number of adherents among the younger painters--a school that, for want of a better name, can
be called that of the new Pre-Raphaelites. It has grown up, apparently, as an expression of
the reaction which has recently set in against the realistic beliefs taught so assiduously
a quarter of a century ago. At the end of the seventies there was a prevailing idea that the
only mission of the artist was to record with absolute fidelity the facts of nature.... To-day
the fallacy of that creed is properly recognized, and the artists on whom we have to depend
in the immediate future for memorable works have substituted for it something much more reasonable....
There runs through this new school a vein of romantic fantasy which all thinking people can
appreciate, because it leads to the production of pictures which appeal, not only to the eye
by their attractiveness of aspect, but also to the mind by their charm of sentiment.... It
is because Mr. Young Hunter and his wife have carried out consistently the best principles
of this school that they have, in a career of some half-dozen years, established themselves
as painters of noteworthy prominence. Their romanticism has always been free from exaggeration
and from that morbidity of subject and treatment which is occasionally a defect in the work
of young artists. They have kept their art wholesome and sincere, and they have cultivated
judiciously those tendencies in it which justify most completely the development of the new
Pre-Raphaelitism. They are, indeed, standing examples of the value of this movement, which
seems destined to make upon history a mark almost as definite as that left by the original
Brotherhood in the middle of the nineteenth century. By their help, and that of the group to
which they belong, a new artistic fashion is being established, a fashion of a novel sort,
for its hold upon the public is a result not of some irrational popular craze, but of the fascinating
arguments which are put into visible shape by the painters themselves."

<b>HYATT, HARRIET RANDOLPH--MRS. ALFRED L. MAYER.</b> Silver medal at Exposition in Atlanta,
Georgia, 1895. Member of National Art Club, New York. Born at Salem, Massachusetts. Studied
at Cowles Art School and with Ross Turner; later under H. H. Kitson and Ernest L. Major.

Among this artist's pictures are "Shouting above the Tide," "Primitive Fishing," "The Choir
Invisible," etc.

The plaster group called the "Boy with Great Dane" was the work of this artist and her sister,
Anna Vaughan Hyatt, and is at the Bureau of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
in New York.

<b>HYATT, ANNA VAUGHAN.</b> Member of the Copley Society, Boston. Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Studied nature at Bostock's Animal Arena, Norumbega Park, and at Sportsman's Exhibition. Criticism
from H. H. Kitson.

The principal works of this artist are the "Boy with Great Dane," already mentioned, made in
conjunction with her sister; a "Bison," in a private collection in Boston; and "Playing with Fire."

In November, 1902, Miss Hyatt held an exhibition of her works, in plaster and bronze, at the
Boston Art Club. There were many small studies taken from life.

<b>HYDE, HELEN.</b> Member of the Art Association, San Francisco. Born in Lima, New York, but
has lived so much in California that she is identified with that State, and especially with
San Francisco. She made her studies in San Francisco, Philadelphia, New York, and Paris, where
she was a pupil of Felix Regamy and Albert Sterner. She then went to Holland, where she also
studied. On her return to San Francisco she became so enamoured of the Oriental life she saw
there that she determined to go to Japan to perfect herself in colored etching. Miss Hyde devoted
herself to the study she had chosen during three years. She lived in an old temple at Tokio,
made frequent excursions into the country, was a pupil of the best Japanese teachers, adapted
herself to the customs of the country, worked on low tables, sitting on the floor, and so gained
the confidence of the natives that she easily obtained models, and, in a word, this artist
was soon accorded honors in Japanese exhibitions, where her pictures were side by side with
those of the best native artists.

Miss Hyde has made a visit to America and received many commissions which decided her to return
to Japan. A letter from a friend in Tokio, written in October, 1903, says that she will soon
return to California.

<b>IGHINO, MARY.</b> A sculptor residing in Genoa. Since 1884 she has exhibited a number of
busts, bas-reliefs, and statues. At Turin in the above-named year she exhibited a group in
plaster, "Love Dominating Evil." She is especially successful in bas-relief portraits; one
of these is of the Genoese sculptor, Santo Varin. She has also made a bust of Emanuele Filiberto;
and in terra-cotta a bust of Oicetta Doria, the fifteenth-century heroine of Mitylene. She
has executed a number of decorative and monumental works, and receives many commissions from
both Italians and foreigners.

<b>INGLIS, HESTER.</b> This artist lived in the last half of the sixteenth and in the early
decades of the seventeenth century. In the Library of Christ Church College, Oxford, there
is an example of the Psalms, in French, written and decorated by her, which formerly belonged
to Queen Elizabeth.

Several works of this sculptor have been purchased by the Government and are in the Bureaux
of Ministers or in provincial museums. A "Bacchante" is in the Museum at Agen; a portrait bust
in the Museum of Alger. At the Salon of 1902 Mlle Itasse exhibited a "Madonna"; in 1903, a
portrait of M, W.

Mlle Itasse knows her art thoroughly. When still a child, at the age when little girls play
with dolls, she was in her father's atelier, working in clay with an irresistible fondness
for this occupation, and without relaxation making one little object after another, until she
acquired that admirable surety of execution that one admires in her work--a quality sometimes
lacking in the work of both men and women sculptors.

Since her début at the Salon of 1886 she has annually exhibited important works. In 1887 her
bust of the danseuse, Marie Salles, was purchased by the Government for the Opera; in 1888
she exhibited a plaster statue, the "Young Scholar," and the following year the bust of her
father; in 1890 a "St. Sebastian" in high relief; in 1891 an "Egyptian Harpist," which gained
her a traveller's purse and an invitation from the Viceroy of Egypt; in 1893 a Renaissance
bas-relief; in 1894 the superb funeral monument dedicated to her father; in 1896 she exhibited,
in plaster, the "Bacchante," which in marble was a brilliant success and gained for her a second-class
medal and the palmes académique, while the statue was acquired by the Government. Mlle. Itasse
has also gained official recompenses in provincial exhibitions and has richly won the right
to esteem herself mistress of her art.

<b>JACQUEMART, MLLE. NÉLIE.</b> Medals at Paris Salon, 1868, 1869, and 1870. Born in Paris.
A very successful portrait painter. Among the portraits she has exhibited at the Paris Salon
are those of Marshal Canrobert, General d'Aurelle de Paladines, General de Palikao, Count de
Chambrun, M. Dufaure, and many others, both ladies and gentlemen. Her portrait of Thiers in
1872 was greatly admired.

Paul d'Abrest wrote of Mlle. Jacquemart, in the Zeitschrift für bildende Kunst: "One feels
that this artist does not take her inspirations alone from the sittings of her subjects, but
that she finds the best part of her work in her knowledge of character and from her close study
of the personnelle of those whom she portrays."

<b>JANDA, HERMINIE VON.</b> Born at Klosterbruch, 1854. Pupil of Ludwig Holanska and Hugo Darnaut.
Since 1886 her landscapes have been seen in various Austrian exhibitions. One of these was
bought for the "Franzens-Museum" at Brünn, while several others were acquired by the Imperial
House of Austria.

<b>JENKS, PHOEBE A. PICKERING.</b> Born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, 1849. Mrs. Jenks writes
that she has had no teachers.

Her works, being portraits, are mostly in the homes of their owners, but that of the son of
T. Jefferson Coolidge, Jr., has been exhibited in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and that
of Mrs. William Slater and her son is in the Slater Museum at Norwich.

Mrs. Jenks has been constantly busy in portrait painting for twenty-seven years, and has had
no time for clubs and societies. She esteems the fact of her constant commissions the greatest
honor that she could have. She has probably painted a greater number of portraits than any
other Boston contemporary artist.

<b>JERICHAU-BAUMANN, ELIZABETH.</b> 1819-1881. Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1861. Member
of the Academy of Copenhagen. Born in Warsaw. Pupil of Karl Sohne and Stilke, in Düsseldorf.
In Rome she married the Danish sculptor Jerichau and afterward lived in Copenhagen. She travelled
in England, France, Russia, Greece, Turkey, and Egypt.

Her picture of a "Polish Woman and Children Leaving Their Home, which had been Destroyed,"
is in the Raczynski Collection, Berlin; "Polish Peasants Returning to the Ruins of a Burnt
House," in the Lansdowne Collection, London; "A Wounded Soldier Nursed by His Betrothed," in
the Gallery at Copenhagen, where is also her portrait of her husband; "An Icelandic Maiden,"
in the Kunsthalle, Hamburg. Her picture, "Reading the Bible," was painted for Napoleon III.
at his request. Mme. Jerichau painted a portrait of the present Queen of England, in her wedding
dress. A large number of her works are in private houses in Copenhagen.

One of her most important pictures was a life-size representation of "Christian Martyrs in
the Catacombs." This picture was much talked of in Rome, where it was painted, and the Pope
desired to see it. Madame Jerichau took the picture to the Vatican. On seeing it the Pope expressed
surprise that one who was not of his Church could paint this picture. Mme. Jerichau, hearing
this, replied: "Your Holiness, I am a Christian."

Hans Christian Andersen was an intimate friend in the Jerichau family. He attended the wedding
in Rome, and wrote the biographies of Professor and Mme. Jerichau.

Théophile Gautier once said that but three women in Europe merited the name of artists--Rosa
Bonheur, Henrietta Brown, and Elizabeth Jerichau; and Cornelius called her "the one woman in
the Düsseldorf School," because of her virile manner of painting.

Among her important portraits are those of Frederick VII. of Denmark, the brothers Grimm, and
"Hans Christian Andersen Reading His Fairy Tales to a Child."

Mme. Jerichau was also an author. In 1874 she published her "Memories of Youth," and later,
with her son, the illustrated "Pictures of Travel."

<b>JOPLING-ROWE, LOUISE.</b> Member of Royal Society of British Artists, Society of Portrait
Painters, Pastel Society, Society of Women Artists. Born at Manchester, 1843. Pupil of Chaplin
in Paris; also studied with Alfred Stevens.

Since 1871 Mrs. Jopling has been a constant exhibitor at the Royal Academy and other London
exhibitions, and frequently also at the Paris Salon.

Her pictures are principally portraits and genre subjects. Her first decided success was gained
in 1874, when she exhibited at the Academy the "Japanese Tea Party," and from that time she
was recognized as an accomplished artist and received as many commissions as she could execute.
The Baroness de Rothschild had been convinced of Mrs. Jopling's talent before she became an
artist, and had given her great encouragement in the beginning of her career. The portrait
of Lord Rothschild, painted for Lord Beaconsfield, is thought to be her best work of this kind,
but its owner would not allow it to be exhibited. Her portrait of Ellen Terry, which hangs
in the Lyceum Theatre, was at the Academy in 1883. It is in the costume of Portia. Mrs. Jopling's
pastels are of an unusual quality, delicate, strong, and brilliant. Her portraits are numerous,
and from time to time she has also executed figure subjects.

Of late years Mrs. Jopling has been much occupied with a School of Painting. The large number
of pupils who wished to study with her made a school the best means of teaching them, and has
been successful. From the beginning they draw from life, and at the same time they also study
from the antique.

Many of her pupils receive good prices for their works, and also earn large sums for their
portraits in black and white.

Mrs. Jopling writes: "What I know I chiefly learned alone. Hard work and the genius that comes
from infinite pains, the eye to see nature, the heart to feel nature, and the courage to follow
nature--these are the best qualifications for the artist who would succeed."

In the Art Journal, July, 1874, I read: "'The Five-o'Clock Tea' is the largest and most important
design we have seen from Mrs. Jopling's hand, and in the disposition of the various figures
and the management of color it certainly exhibits very remarkable technical gifts. Especially
do we notice in this lady's work a correct understanding of the laws of tone, very rare to
find in the works of English painters, giving the artist power to bring different tints, even
if they are not harmonious, into right relations with one another."

The above-named picture was sold to the Messrs. Agnew, and was followed by "The Modern Cinderella,"
which was seen at the Paris Exposition in 1878; at the Philadelphia Exposition in 1876 she
exhibited "Five Sisters of York."

Mrs. Jopling is also known as the founder and president of the Society of the Immortals. She
has written several short tales, some poems, and a book called "Hints to Amateurs."

At the Royal Academy, 1903, she exhibited "Hark! Hark! the Lark at Heaven's Gate Sings," which
is a picture of a poor girl beside a table, on which she has thrown her work, and leaning back
in her chair, with hands clasped behind her head, is lost in thought.

<b>JORIS, SIGNORINA AGNESE</b>--pseudonym, Altissimi. Was accorded the title of professor at
the Institute of the Fine Arts, Rome, 1881. She was successful in a competition for a position
in the Scuole Tecniche, Rome, 1888. Honorable mention, Florence, 1890; same at Palermo, 1891
and 1892; silver medal of first class and diploma of silver medal, Rome, 1899 and 1900. Member
of the Società Cooperativa, Rome. Born in the same city, and pupil of the Institute of Fine
Arts and of her brother, Cavaliere Professore Pio Joris.

This artist writes that a list of her works would be too long and require too much time to
write it. They are in oils, pastel, and water-colors, with various applications of these to
tapestries, etc. She also gives lessons in these different methods of painting. In a private
collection in New York is her "Spanish Scene in the Eighteenth Century."

She painted a "portrait of the late King Humbert, arranged in the form of a triptych surrounded
by a wreath of flowers, painted from some which had lain on the King's bier." She sent this
picture to Queen Margharita, "who not only graciously accepted it, but sent the artist a beautiful
letter and a magnificent jewel on which was the Royal Cipher."

<b>KAERLING, HENRIETTE.</b> Born about 1832. Daughter of the artist, J. T. Kaerling, who was
her principal teacher. She practised her art as a painter of portraits, genre subjects, and
still-life in Budapest during some years before her marriage to the pianist Pacher, with whom
she went to Vienna. She there copied some of the works of the great painters in the Gallery,
besides doing original work of acknowledged excellence. In addition to her excellent portraits,
she painted in 1851 "The Grandmother"; in 1852, "A Garland with Religious Emblems"; in 1855,
"A Crucifix Wound with Flowers."

<b>KALCKREUTH, COUNTESS MARIA.</b> Medal at Chicago Exposition, 1893. Member of the Society
of Women Artists in Berlin. Born at Düsseldorf. 1857-1897. Much of her artistic life was passed
in Munich. Her picture at Chicago was later exhibited at Berlin and was purchased for the Protestant
Chapel at Dachau. It represented "Christ Raising a Repentant Sinner"--a strong work, broadly
painted. Among her important pictures are "In the Sunshine," "Fainthearted," "Discontented,"
and several portraits, all of which show the various aspects of her artistic talent.

<b>KAUFFMAN, ANGELICA.</b> An original member of the London Academy. She was essentially an
Italian artist, since from the age of eleven she lived in Italy and there studied her art.
Such different estimates have been made of her works that one may quote a good authority in
either praise or blame of her artistic genius and attainment.

Kugler, a learned, unimpassioned critic, says: "An easy talent for composition, though of no
depth; a feeling for pretty forms, though they were often monotonous and empty, and for graceful
movement; a coloring blooming and often warm, though occasionally crude; a superficial but
agreeable execution, and especially a vapid sentimentality in harmony with the fashion of the
time--all these causes sufficiently account for her popularity."

Raphael Mengs, himself an artist, thus esteems her: "As an artist she is the pride of the female
sex in all times and all nations. Nothing is wanting--composition, coloring, fancy--all are here."

Miss Kate Thompson writes: "Her works showed no originality nor any great power of execution,
and, while sometimes graceful, were generally weak and insipid."

For myself I do not find her worthy of superlative praise or condemnation; one cannot deny
her grace in design, which was also creditably correct; her poetical subjects were pleasing
in arrangement; her historical subjects lacked strength and variety in expression; her color
was as harmonious and mellow as that of the best Italian colorists, always excepting a small
number of the greatest masters, and in all her pictures there is a something--it must have
been the individuality of the artist--that leads one to entertain a certain fondness for her,
even while her shortcomings are fully recognized.

The story of Angelica Kauffman's life is of unusual interest. She was born at Coire, in the
Grisons. 1742-1807. Her father, an artist, had gone from Schwarzenburg to Coire to execute
some frescoes in a church, and had married there. When Angelica was a year old the family settled
in Morbegno, in Lombardy. Ten years later, when the child had already shown her predilection
for painting and music, a new home was made for her in Como, where there were better advantages
for her instruction.

Her progress in music was phenomenal, and for a time she loved her two arts--one as well as
the other--and could make no choice between them. In one of her pictures she represented herself
as a child, standing between allegorical figures of Music and Painting.

The exquisite scenery about Como, the stately palaces, charming villas, the lake with its fairy-like
pleasure boats, and the romantic life which there surrounded this girl of so impressionable
a nature, rapidly developed the poetic element born with her, which later found expression
through her varied talents. During her long life the recollections of the two years she passed
at Como were among the most precious memories associated with her wandering girlhood.

From Como she was taken to Milan, where she had still better advantages for study, and a world
of art was opened to her which far exceeded her most ardent imaginings. Leonardo had lived
and taught in Milan, and his influence with that of other Lombard masters stirred Angelica
to her very soul.

Her pictures soon attracted the attention of Robert d'Este, who became her patron and placed
her in the care of the Duchess of Carrara. This early association with a circle of cultured
and elegant men and women was doubtless the origin of the self-possession and modest dignity
which characterized Angelica Kauffman through life and enabled her becomingly to accept the
honors that were showered upon her.

Her happy life at Milan ended all too soon. Her mother died, and her father decided to return
to his native Schwarzenburg to execute some extensive decorative works in that vicinity. In
the interior decoration of a church Angelica painted in fresco the figures of the twelve apostles
after engravings from the works of Piazetta.

The coarse, homely life of Schwarzenburg was in extreme contrast to that of Milan and was most
uncongenial to a sensitive nature; but Angelica was saved from melancholy by the companionship
she felt in the grand pine forests, which soothed her discontent, while her work left her little
time to pine for the happiness she had left or even to mourn the terrible loss of her mother.

Her father's restlessness returned, and they were again in Milan for a short time, and then
in Florence. Here she studied assiduously awhile, but again her father's discontent drove him
on, and they went to Rome.

Angelica was now eighteen years old, and in a measure was prepared to profit by the aid and
advice of Winckelmann. He conceived an ardent friendship for the young artist, and, though
no longer young, and engaged in most important and absorbing research, he found time to interest
himself in Angelica's welfare, and allowed her to paint his portrait, to which she gave an
expression which proved that she had comprehended the spirit of this remarkable man of threescore
years.

While at Rome Angelica received a commission to copy some pictures in Naples. After completing
these she returned to Rome, in 1764, and continued her studies for a time, but her interests
were again sacrificed to her father's unreasonable capriciousness, and she was taken to Bologna
and then to Venice. This constant change was disheartening to Angelica and of the greatest
disadvantage to her study, and it was most fortunate that she now met Lady Wentworth, who became
her friend and afterward took her to England.

Angelica had already executed commissions for English families of rank whom she had met in
various cities of Italy, and her friends hoped that she would be able to earn more money in
England than in Italy, where there were numberless artists and copyists. After visiting Paris
she went to London, where a brilliant career awaited her, not only as an artist, but in the
social world as well.

De Rossi thus describes her at this time: "She was not very tall, but slight, and her figure
was well proportioned. She had a dark, clear complexion, a gracious mouth, white and equal
teeth, and well-marked features;... above all, her azure eyes, so placid and so bright, charmed
you with an expression it is impossible to write; unless you had known her you could not understand
how eloquent were her looks."

Her English friends belonged to the most cultivated circles, many of them being also of high
rank. Artists united to do her honor--showing no professional envy and making no opposition
to her election to the Academy. Many interesting incidents in her association with London artists
are related, and it is said that both Fuseli and Sir Joshua Reynolds were unsuccessful suitors
for her hand. Miss Thackeray, in her novel, "Miss Angel," makes Angelica an attractive heroine.

The royal family were much interested in her, and the mother of the King visited her--an honor
never before accorded to an artist--and the Princess of Brunswick gave her commissions for
several pictures.

De Rossi says that her letters at this time were those of a person at the summit of joy and
tranquillity. She was able to save money and looked hopefully forward to a time when she could
make a home for her unthrifty father. But this happy prosperity was suddenly cut short by her
own imprudence.

After refusing many eligible offers of marriage, she was secretly married to an adventurer
who personated the Count de Horn, and succeeded by plausible falsehoods in convincing her that
it was necessary, for good reasons, to conceal their marriage. One day when painting a portrait
of Queen Charlotte, who was very friendly to the artist, Angelica was moved to confide the
secret of her marriage to the Queen. Until this time no one save her father had known of it.

Her Majesty, who loved Angelica, expressed her surprise and interest and desired that Count
de Horn should appear at Court. By this means the deceit which had been practised was discovered,
and the Queen, as gently as possible, told Angelica the truth. At first she felt that though
her husband was not the Count de Horn and had grossly deceived her, he was the man she had
married and the vows she had made were binding. But it was soon discovered that the villain
had a living wife when he made his pretended marriage with Angelica, who was thus released
from any consideration for him. This was a time to prove the sincerity of friends, and Angelica
was comforted by the steadfastness of those who had devoted themselves to her in her happier
days. Sir Joshua Reynolds was untiring in his friendly offices for her and for her helpless
old father.

There were as many differing opinions in regard to Angelica Kauffman, the woman, as in regard
to the quality of her art. Some of her biographers believed her to be perfectly sincere and
uninfluenced by flattery. Nollekens takes another view; he calls her a coquette, and, among
other stories, relates that when in Rome, "one evening she took her station in one of the most
conspicuous boxes in the theatre, accompanied by two artists, both of whom, as well as many
others, were desperately enamoured of her. She had her place between her two adorers, and while
her arms were folded before her in front of the box, over which she leaned, she managed to
clasp a hand of both, so that each imagined himself the cavalier of her choice."

When Angelica could rise above the unhappiness and mortification of her infatuation for the
so-called De Horn, she devoted herself to her art, and during twelve years supported her father
and herself and strengthened the friendships she had gained in her adopted land. At length,
in 1781, her father's failing health demanded their return to Italy; and now, when forty years
old, she married Antonio Zucchi, an artist who had long loved her and devoted himself to her
and to her father with untiring affection.

The old Kauffman lived to visit his home in Schwarzenburg and to reach Southern Italy, but
died soon after.

Signor Zucchi made his home in Rome. He was a member of the Royal Academy, London, and was
in full sympathy with his wife in intellectual and artistic pursuits and pleasures. De Rossi
says: "It was interesting to see Angelica and her husband before a picture. While Zucchi spoke
with enthusiasm Angelica remained silent, fixing her eloquent glance on the finest portions
of the work. In her countenance one could read her emotions, while her observations were limited
to a few brief words. These, however, seldom expressed any blame--only the praises of that
which was worthy of praise. It belonged to her nature to recognize the beauty alone--as the
bee draws honey only out of every flower."

Her home in Rome was a centre of attraction to the artistic and literary society of the city,
and few persons of note passed any time there without being presented to her. Goethe and Herder
were her friends, and the former wrote: "The good Angelica has a most remarkable, and for a
woman really unheard-of, talent; one must see and value what she does and not what she leaves
undone. There is much to learn from her, particularly as to work, for what she effects is really
marvellous."

In the midst of the social demands on her time in Rome, she continued to devote herself to
her art, and Signor Zucchi, hoping to beguile her into idleness, purchased a charming villa
at Castel Gondolfo; but in spite of its attractions she was never content to be long away from
Rome and her studio.

Thus in her maturer years her life flowed on in a full stream of prosperity until, in 1795,
Signor Zucchi died. Angelica survived him twelve years--years of deep sadness. Not only was
her personal sorrow heavy to bear, but the French invasion of her beloved Italy disquieted
her. Hoping to regain her usual spirits, she revisited the scenes of her youth and remained
some time in Venice with the family of Signor Zucchi. Returning to Rome she resumed her accustomed
work, so far as her health permitted.

She held fast to the German spirit through all the changes in her life, with the same determination
which made it possible, in her strenuous labors, to retain her gentle womanliness. Just before
she died she desired to hear one of Gellert's spiritual odes.

She was buried in Sant' Andrea dei Frati, beside her husband. All the members of the Academy
of St. Luke attended her obsequies, and her latest pictures were borne in the funeral procession.
Her bust was placed in the Pantheon, and every proper tribute and honor were paid to her memory
in Rome, where she was sincerely mourned.

Although Angelica lived and worked so long in London and was one of the thirty-six original
members of the Royal Academy, I do not think her best pictures are in the public galleries
there. Of course many of the portraits painted in London are in private collections. Her pictures
are seen in all the important galleries of Europe. Her etchings, executed with grace and spirit,
are much esteemed and sell for large prices. Engravings after her works by Bartolozzi are most
attractive; numerous as they were, good prints of them are now rare and costly.

She painted several portraits of herself; one is in the National Portrait Gallery, London,
one at Munich, and a third in the Uffizi, Florence. The last is near that of Madame Le Brun,
and the contrast between the two is striking. Angelica is still young, but the expression of
her face is so grave as to be almost melancholy; she is sitting on a stone in the midst of
a lonely landscape; she has a portfolio in one hand and a pencil in the other, and so unstudied
is her pose, and so lacking in any attempt to look her best, that one feels that she is entirely
absorbed in her work. The Frenchwoman could not forget to be interesting; Angelica was interesting
with no thought of being so.

I regard three works by this artist, which are in the Dresden Gallery, as excellent examples
of her work; they are "A Young Vestal," "A Young Sibyl," and "Ariadne Abandoned by Theseus."

In 1784 Angelica Kauffman painted "Servius Tullius as a Child" for the Czar of Russia; in 1786
"Hermann and Thusnelda" and "The Funeral of Pallas" for Joseph II. These are now in the Vienna
Gallery. Three pictures, "Virgil Reading the Aeneid to the Empress Octavia," "Augustus Reading
Verses on the Death of Marcellus," and "Achilles Discovered by Ulysses, in Female Attire,"
were painted for Catherine II. of Russia. "Religion Surrounded by Virtues," 1798, is in the
National Gallery, London. A "Madonna" and a "Scene from the Songs of Ossian" are in the Aschaffenburg
Gallery. A "Madonna in Glory" and the "Women of Samaria," 1799, are in the New Pinakothek,
Munich, where is also the portrait of Louis I. of Bavaria, as Crown Prince, 1805. The "Farewell
of Abelard and Heloise," together with other works of this artist, are in the Hermitage, St.
Petersburg. A "Holy Family," and others, in the Museo Civico, Venice. "Prudence Warning Virtue
against Folly," in the Pennsylvania Academy, Philadelphia. Portraits of Winckelmann in the
Städel Institute, Frankfort, and in the Zürich Gallery. Portrait of a Lady, Stuttgart Museum;
the Duchess of Brunswick, Hampton Court Palace; the architect Novosielski, National Gallery,
Edinburgh. In addition to the portraits of herself mentioned above, there are others in Berlin
Museum, the Old Pinakothek, Munich, the Ferdinandeum, Innsbruck, and in the Philadelphia Academy.

<b>KAULA, MRS. LEE LUFKIN.</b> Member of the Woman's Art Club, New York. Born in Erie, Pennsylvania.
Pupil in New York of Charles Melville Dewey and the Metropolitan Art Schools; in Paris, during
three years, pupil of Girardot, Courtois, the Colarossi Academy, and of Aman-Jean.

Mrs. Kaula is essentially a portrait painter, although she occasionally paints figure subjects.
Her portraits are in private hands in various cities, and her works have been exhibited in
Paris, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston, etc. She paints in both oil and water-colors.

<b>KAYSER, EBBA.</b> Medals in Vienna, Dresden, and Cologne for landscapes and flower pieces.
Born in Stockholm, 1846. When twenty years old she went to Vienna, where she studied under
Rieser, Geyling, and Karl Hannold. She did not exhibit her works until 1881, since when she
has been favorably known, especially in Austria. A water-color of a "Mill near Ischl" and several
other pictures by this artist have been purchased for the Imperial Collections.

<b>KEITH, DORA WHEELER.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>KEMP-WELCH, LUCY ELIZABETH.</b> Fellow and Associate of Herkomer School, and member of the
Royal Society of British Artists. Born at Bournemouth, 1869. Has exhibited annually at the
Royal Academy since 1894. In 1897 her picture of "Colt Hunting in the New Forest" was purchased
by the trustees of the Chantrey Bequest; in 1900 that of "Horses Bathing in the Sea" was bought
for the National Gallery at Victoria. In 1901 she exhibited "Lord Dundonald's Dash on Lady-smith."

In July, 1903, in his article on the Royal Academy Exhibition, the editor of the Magazine of
Art, in enumerating good pictures, mentions: "Miss Lucy Kemp-Welch's well-studied 'Village
Street' at dusk, and her clever 'Incoming Tide,' with its waves and rocks and its dipping,
wheeling sea gulls."

Mr. Frederick Wetmore, in writing of the Spring Exhibition of the Royal Painter Etchers, says:
"Miss Kemp-Welch, whose best work, so delicate that it could only lose by the reduction of
a process block, shows the ordinary English country, the sign-post of the crossways, and the
sheep along the lane."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>KENDELL, MARIE VON.</b> Born in Lannicken, 1838. Pupil of Pape, Otto von Kameke, and Dressier.
She travelled in England, Italy, and Switzerland, and many of her works represent scenes in
these countries. In 1882 she painted the Cadinen Peaks near Schluderbach, in the Ampezzo Valley.
At the exhibition of the Women Artists in Berlin, 1892, she exhibited two mountain landscapes
and a view of "Clovelly in Devonshire." The last was purchased by the Emperor. To the same
exhibition in 1894 she contributed two Swiss landscapes, which were well considered.

<b>KIELLAND, KITTY.</b> Sister of the famous Norwegian novelist, Alexander Kielland. Her pictures
of the forests and fjords of Norway are the best of her works and painted con amore. Recently
she exhibited a portrait which was much praised and said to be so fresh and life-like in treatment,
so flexible and vivacious in color, that one is involuntarily attracted by it, without any
knowledge of the original.

<b>KILLEGREW, ANNE.</b> Was a daughter of Dr. Henry Killegrew, a prebendary of Westminster
Cathedral. Anne was born in 1660, and when still quite young was maid of honor to the Duchess
of York, whose portrait she painted as well as that of the future King James II. She also painted
historical subjects and still-life.

One of her admirers wrote of her as "A grace for beauty and a muse for wit." A biographer records
her death from smallpox when twenty-five years old, "to the unspeakable reluctancy of her relatives."
She was buried in the Savoy Chapel, now a "Royal Peculiar," and a mural tablet set forth her
beauty, accomplishments, graces, and piety in a Latin inscription.

Anne Killigrew was notable for her poetry as well as for her painting. Dryden wrote an ode
in her memory which Dr. Johnson called "the noblest our language has produced." It begins:
"Thou youngest virgin daughter of the skies." After praising her poetry Dryden wrote:

    "Her pencil drew whate'er her soul designed,
    And oft the happy draught surpassed the image of her mind."

Of her portrait of James II. he says:

    "For, not content to express his outward part,
    Her hand called out the image of his heart;
    His warlike mind--his soul devoid of fear--
    His high designing thoughts were figured there."

Having repeated these panegyrics, it is but just to add that two opinions existed concerning
the merit of Mistress Killigrew's art and of Dryden's ode, which another critic called "a harmonious
hyperbole, composed of the Fall of Adam--Arethusa--Vestal Virgins--Dian--Cupid--Noah's Ark--the
Pleiades--the fall of Jehoshaphat--and the last Assizes."

Anthony Wood, however, says: "There is nothing spoken of her which she was not equal to, if
not superior, and if there had not been more true history in her praises than compliment, her
father never would have suffered them to pass the press."

<b>KINDT, ADELE.</b> This painter of history and of genre subjects won her first prize at Ghent
when less than twenty-two, and received medals at Douai, Cambrai, Ghent, and Brussels before
she was thirty-two. Was made a member of the Brussels, Ghent, and Lisbon Academies. Born in
Brussels, 1805. Pupil of Sophie Frémiet and of Navez. Her picture of the "Last Moments of Egmont"
is in the Ghent Museum; among her other historical pictures are "Melancthon Predicting Prince
Willem's Future" and "Elizabeth Sentencing Mary Stuart," which is in the Hague Museum. The
"Obstinate Scholar" and "Happier than a King" are two of her best genre pictures.

<b>KING, JESSIE M.</b> A most successful illustrator and designer of book-covers, who was educated
as an artist in the Glasgow School of Decorative Art. In this school and at that of South Kensington
she was considered a failure, by reason of her utterly unacademic manner. She did not see things
by rule and she persistently represented them as she saw them. Her love of nature is intense,
and when she illustrated the "Jungle Book" she could more easily imagine that the animals could
speak a language that Mowgli could understand, than an academic artist could bring himself
to fancy for a moment. Her work is full of poetic imagination, of symbolism, and of the spirit
of her subject.

Walter P. Watson, in a comprehensive critique of her work, says: "Her imaginations are more
perfect and more minutely organized than what is seen by the bodily eye, and she does not permit
the outward creation to be a hindrance to the expression of her artistic creed. The force of
representation plants her imagined figures before her; she treats them as real, and talks to
them as if they were bodily there; puts words in their mouths such as they should have spoken,
and is affected by them as by persons. Such creation is poetry in the literal sense of the
term, and Miss King's dreamy and poetical nature enables her to create the persons of the drama,
to invest them with appropriate figures, faces, costumes, and surroundings; to make them speak
after their own characters."

Her important works are in part the illustrations of "The Little Princess," "The Magic Grammar,"
"La Belle Dame sans Merci," "L'Evangile de l'Enfance," "The Romance of the Swan's Nest," etc.

She also makes exquisite designs for book-covers, which have the spirit of the book for which
they are made so clearly indicated that they add to the meaning as well as to the beauty of
the book.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>KIRCHSBERG, ERNESTINE VON.</b> Medal at Chicago Exposition, 1893. Born in Verona, 1857.
Pupil of Schäffer and Darnaut. This artist has exhibited in Vienna since 1881, and some of
her works have been purchased for the royal collection. Her landscapes, both in oil and water-colors,
have established her reputation as an excellent artist, and she gains the same happy effects
in both mediums. Her picture shown at Chicago was "A Peasant Home in Southern Austria."

<b>KIRSCHNER, MARIE.</b> Born at Prague, 1852. Pupil of Adolf Lier in Munich, and Jules Dupré
and Alfred Stevens in Paris. In 1883 she travelled in Italy, and has had her studio in Berlin
and in Prague. The Rudolfinum at Prague contains her "Village Tulleschitz in Bohemia." She
is also, known by many flower pieces and by the "Storm on the Downs of Heyst," "Spring Morning,"
and a "Scene on the Moldau."

<b>KITSON, MRS. H. H.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1889; and the same at Paris
Salon, 1890; two medals from Massachusetts Charitable Association; and has exhibited in all
the principal exhibitions of the United States. Born in Brookline. Pupil of her husband, Henry
H. Kitson, and of Dagnan-Bouveret in Paris.

The women of Michigan commissioned Mrs. Kitson to make two bronze statues representing the
woods of their State for the Columbian Exhibition at Chicago. Her principal works are the statue
of a volunteer for the Soldiers' Monument at Newburyport; Soldiers' Monument at Ashburnham;
Massachusetts State Monument to 29th, 35th, and 36th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry at National
Military Park at Vicksburg; also medallion portraits of Generals Dodge, Ransom, Logan, Blair,
Howard, A. J. Smith, Grierson, and McPherson, for the Sherman Monument at Washington.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>KLUMPKE, ANNA ELIZABETH.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1885; silver medal, Versailles,
1886; grand prize, Julian Academy, 1889; Temple gold medal, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts,
1889; bronze medal, Paris Exposition, 1889. Member of the Copley Society, Boston; of the Society
of Baron Taylor, Paris; and of the Paris Astronomical Society. Born in San Francisco. Pupil
of the Julian Academy, under Robert-Fleury, and Jules Lefebvre, where she received, in 1888,
the prize of the silver medal and one hundred francs--the highest award given at the annual
Portrait Concours, between the men and women students of the above Academy.

Among Miss Klumpke's principal works are: "In the Wash-house," owned by the Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts; portrait of Mrs. Nancy Foster, at the Chicago University; "Maternal Instruction,"
in the collection of Mr. Randolph Jefferson Coolidge, Boston; many portraits, among which are
those of Madame Klumpke, Rosa Bonheur, Mrs. Thorp, Mrs. Sargent, Count Kergaradec, etc.

In writing me of her own life-work and that of her family, she says, what we may well believe:
"Longfellow's thought, 'Your purpose in life must be to accomplish well your task,' has been
our motto from childhood."

Anna Klumpke, being the eldest of the four daughters of her mother, had a double duty: her
own studies and profession and the loving aid and care of her sisters. In the beginning of
her art studies it was only when her home duties were discharged that she could hasten to the
Luxembourg, where, curiously enough, her time was devoted to copying "Le Labourage Nivernais,"
by Rosa Bonheur, whose beloved and devoted friend she later became.

Meantime Anna Klumpke had visited Boston and other cities of her native land, and made a success,
not only as an artist, but as a woman, whose intelligence, cheerfulness, and broad interests
in life made her a delightful companion. Sailing from Antwerp one autumn, I was told by a friend
that a lady on board had a letter of introduction to me from Madame Bouguereau. It proved to
be Miss Klumpke, and the acquaintance thus begun, as time went on, disclosed to me a remarkable
character, founded on a remarkable experience, and it was no surprise to me that the great
and good Rosa Bonheur found in Anna Klumpke a sympathetic and reliable friend and companion
for her last days.

The history of this friendship and its results are too well known to require more than a passing
mention. Miss Klumpke is now established in Paris, and writes me that, in addition to her painting,
she is writing of Rosa Bonheur. She says: "This biography consists of reminiscences of Rosa
Bonheur's life, her impressions of Nature, God, and Art, with perhaps a short sketch of how
I became acquainted with the illustrious woman whose precious maternal tenderness will remain
forever the most glorious event of my life."

At the Salon des Artistes Français, 1903, Miss Klumpke exhibited a picture called "Maternal
Affection."

<b>KNOBLOCH, GERTRUDE.</b> Born at Breslau, 1867. Pupil of Skirbina in Berlin. Her studio is
in Brussels. She paints in oil and water-colors. Among her best pictures are "In the Children's
Shoes," "The Forester's Leisure Hours," and a "Madonna with the Christ Child."

Two of her works in gouache are worthy of mention: "An Effeminate" and "Children Returning
from School."

<b>KOLLOCK, MARY.</b> Born at Norfolk, Virginia, 1840. Studied at the Pennsylvania Academy
under Robert Wylie, and in New York under J. B. Bristol and A. H. Wynant. Her landscapes have
been exhibited at the National Academy, New York. Several of these were scenes about Lake George
and the Adirondack regions. "Morning in the Mountains" and "On the Road to Mt. Marcy" were
exhibited in 1877; "A November Day" and an "Evening Walk," in 1878; "A House in East Hampton,
Two Hundred and Twenty Years Old," in 1880; "On Rondout Creek," in 1881; and "The Brook," in 1882.

<b>KOKER, ANNA MARIA DE.</b> A Dutch etcher and engraver of the seventeenth century, who pursued
her art from pure love of it, never trying to make her works popular or to sell them. A few
of her landscapes fell into the hands of collectors and are much valued for their rarity and
excellence. Three examples are the "Landscape with a View of a Village," "The Square Tower,"
and "Huts by the Water."

<b>KOMLOSI, IRMA.</b> Born in Prague, 1850. Pupil of Friederich Sturm. This flower painter
resides in Vienna, where her pictures are much appreciated and are seen in good collections.
They have been purchased for the Art Associations of Brünn, Prague, and Budapest.

<b>KONDELKA, BARONESS PAULINE VON</b>--Frau von Schmerling. Born at Vienna. 1806-1840. She
inherited from her father a strong inclination for art, and was placed by him under the instruction
of Franz Potter. In the Royal Gallery, Vienna, is her picture called "Silence," 1834. It represents
the Virgin with her finger on her lip to warn against disturbing the sleep of the Infant Jesus.
The picture is surrounded by a beautiful arrangement of flowers. In 1836 she painted a charming
picture called "A Bunch of Flowers." Her favorite subjects were floral, and her works of this
sort are much admired.

<b>KONEK, IDA.</b> Born at Budapest, 1856. Her early art studies were under G. Vastagh, C.
von Telepy, W. Lindenschmit, and Munkácsy; later she was a pupil at the Julian Academy in Paris
and the Scuola libera in Florence. In the Parish Church at Köbölkut are three of her pictures
of sacred subjects, and in the Hungarian National Museum a picture of still-life. Her "Old
Woman," 1885, is mentioned as attracting favorable notice.

<b>KORA OR CALLIRHOË.</b> It is a well-authenticated fact that in the Greek city of Sicyonia,
about the middle of the seventh century before Christ, there lived the first woman artist of
whom we have a reliable account.

Her story has been often told, and runs in this wise: Kora, or Callirhoë, was much admired
by the young men of Sicyonia for her grace and beauty, of which they caught but fleeting glimpses
through her veil when they met her in the flower-market. By reason of Kora's attraction the
studio of her father, Dibutades, was frequented by many young Greeks, who watched for a sight
of his daughter, while they praised his models in clay.

At length one of these youths begged the modeller to receive him as an apprentice, and, his
request being granted, he became the daily companion of both Kora and her father. As the apprentice
was skilled in letters, it soon came about that he was the teacher and ere long the lover of
the charming maiden, who was duly betrothed to him.

The time for the apprentice to leave his master came all too soon. As he sat with Kora the
evening before his departure, she was seized by an ardent wish for a portrait of her lover,
and, with a coal from the brazier, she traced upon the wall the outline of the face so dear
to her. This likeness her father instantly recognized, and, hastening to bring his clay, he
filled in the sketch and thus produced the first portrait in bas-relief! It is a charming thought
that from the inspiration of a pure affection so beautiful an art originated, and doubtless
Kora's influence contributed much to the artistic fame which her husband later achieved in Corinth.

In the latter city the portrait was preserved two hundred years, and Dibutades became so famous
for the excellence of his work that at his death several cities claimed the honor of having
been his birthplace.

<b>KRAFFT, ANNA BARBARA.</b> Member of the Vienna Academy. She was born at Igto in 1764, and
died at Bamberg in 1825. She received instruction from her father, J. N. Steiner, of which
she later made good use. Having married an apothecary, she went for a time to Salsburg, and
again, after nine years in Prague, spent eighteen years in Salsburg, retiring finally to Bamberg.
In the Gallery at Bamberg may be seen her portrait of the founder, J. Hemmerlein; in the Nostitz
Gallery, Prague, a portrait of the Archduke Charles; in Strahow Abbey, Prague, a "Madonna";
and in the church at Owencez, near Prague, an altar-piece.

<b>KUNTZE, MARTHA.</b> Born in Heinrichsdorf, Prussia, 1849. Pupil of Steffeck and Gussow in
Berlin. In 1881 she went to Paris and studied under Carolus Duran and Henner, and later travelled
in Italy, pursuing her art in Florence, Rome, and Southern Italy. She has an excellent reputation
as a portrait painter, and occasionally paints subjects of still-life.

<b>KÜSSNER, AMALIA.</b> See Coudert, Amalia Küssner.

<b>LABILLE, ADELAIDE VERTUS.</b> Was born in Paris in 1749. She early developed a taste for
art and a desire to study it. J. E. Vincent was her master in miniature painting, while Latour
instructed her in the use of pastels. She was successful as a portrait painter and as a teacher,
having some members of the royal family as pupils, who so esteemed her that they became her
friends. She is known as Madame Vincent, having married the son of her first master in painting.

Her portrait of the sculptor Gois gained a prize at the Academy, and in 1781 she was made a
member of that institution. We know the subjects of some large, ambitious works by Madame Vincent,
on which she relied for her future fame, but unhappily they were destroyed in the time of the
French Revolution, and she never again had the courage to attempt to replace them. One of these
represented the "Reception of a Member to the Order of St. Lazare," the Grand Master being
the brother of the King, who had appointed Madame Vincent Painter to the Court. Another of
these works was a portrait of the artist before her easel, surrounded by her pupils, among
whom was the Duchesse d'Angoulême and other noble ladies.

As Madame Vincent and her husband were staunch royalists, they suffered serious losses during
the Revolution; the loss of her pictures was irreparable. She was so disheartened by the destruction
of the result of the labors of years that she never again took up her brush with her old-time
ambition and devotion.

She died in 1803, at the age of fifty-four, having received many honors as an artist, while
she was beloved by her friends and esteemed by all as a woman of noble character.

<b>LAING, MRS. J. G.</b> Principal studies made in Glasgow under Mr. F. H. Newbery; also in
Paris under Jean-Paul Laurens and Aman-Jean.

This artist is especially occupied with portraits of children and their mothers. She has, however,
exhibited works of another sort. Her "Sweet Repose" and "Masquerading" were sold from the exhibitions
in London and Glasgow, where they were shown. "Bruges Lace-Makers" was exhibited in Munich in 1903.

The Ladies' Club of Glasgow is enterprising and its exhibitions are interesting, but Mrs. Laing
is not a member of any club, and sends her pictures by invitation to exhibitions on the Continent
as well as in Great Britain, and sometimes has a private exhibition in Glasgow.

Her study at Aman-Jean's and Colarossi's gave a certain daintiness and grace to her work, which
is more Parisian than British in style. There is great freedom in her brush and a delicacy
well suited to the painting of children's portraits; her children and their mothers really
smile, not grin, and are altogether attractive. I cannot say whether the portraits I have seen
are good likenesses, but they have an air of individuality which favors that idea.

<b>LAMB, ELLA CONDIE</b>--Mrs. Charles R. Lamb. Dodge prize, National Academy, New York; medal
at Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 1893; gold medal, Atlanta Exposition; medal at Pan-American
Exposition, 1901. Member of Art Students' League, Woman's Art Club, National Art Club. Born
in New York City. Pupil of National Academy of Design and of Art Students' League, New York,
under C. Y. Turner, William M. Chase, and Walter Shirlaw; in Paris, pupil of R. Collin and
R. Courtois; in England, of Hubert Herkomer, R.A.

Among Mrs. Lamb's works are "The Advent Angel"; "The Christ Child," a life-size painting, copied
in mosaic for the Conrad memorial, St. Mary's Church, Wayne, Pennsylvania; "The Arts" and "The
Sciences," executed in association with Charles R. Lamb, for the Sage Memorial Apse designed
by him for Cornell University.

Of recent years Mrs. Lamb is much occupied in collaborating with her husband in decorative
designs for public edifices. One of the works thus executed is a memorial window to Mrs. Stella
Goodrich Russell in Wells College at Aurora. It represents three female figures against a landscape
background. Literature is seated in the centre, while Science and Art stand in the side panels.
It has the effect of a triptych.

<b>LAMB, ROSE.</b> Two bronze medals in Boston exhibitions, 1878 and 1879. Member of the Copley
Society. Born in Boston, where her studies have been made, chiefly under William M. Hunt.

Miss Lamb has painted portraits principally, a large number of which are in Boston in the homes
of the families to which they belong. Among them are Mrs. Robert C. Winthrop, Jr., and her
children; Mr. J. Ingersoll Bowditch, Mr. Horace Lamb, the three sons of the late Governor Roger
Wolcott, the daughters of Mrs. Shepherd Brooks, the children of Mrs. Walter C. Baylies, etc.

In 1887 Miss Lamb painted an admirable portrait of Mohini Mohun Chatterji, a Brahmin, who spent
some months in Boston.

<b>LANCIANI, MARCELLA.</b> Born in Rome, where her studies were made under Professor Giuseppe
Ferrari in figure drawing, and under Signor Onorato Carlandi--the great water-color artist
of the Roman Campagna--in landscape and coloring.

At the annual spring exhibition in the Palazzo delle Belle Arti, Rome, 1903, this artist exhibited
four works: a life-size "Study of the Head of an old Roman Peasant"; a "Sketch near the Mouth
of the Tiber at Finniscino"; "An Old Stairway in the Villa d'Este, at Tivoli"; "A View from
the Villa Colonna, Rome."

Two of her sketches, one of the "Tiber" and one of the "Villa Medici," are in the collection
of Mrs. Pierpont Morgan; two similar sketches are in the collection of Mrs. James Leavitt,
New York; a copy of a "Madonna" in an old Umbrian church is in a private gallery in Rome; a
"Winter Scene in the Villa Borghese" and two other sketches are owned in Edinburgh; the "Lake
in the Villa Borghese" is in the collection of Mr. Richard Corbin, Paris; and several other
pictures are in private collections in New York.

<b>LANDER, LOUISA.</b> Born in Salem, 1826. Manifested a taste for sculpture when quite young,
and modelled likenesses of the members of her family. In 1855 she became the pupil of Thomas
Crawford in Rome. Among her earlier works are figures in marble of "To-day" and "Galatea,"
the first being emblematic of America.

She executed many portrait busts, one of them being of Nathaniel Hawthorne. "The Captive Pioneer"
is a large group. Among her ideal works are a statue of Virginia Dare--the first child born
in America of English parents; "Undine," "Evangeline," "Virginia," etc.

<b>LAUKOTA, HERMINIE.</b> Born in Prague, 1853. After having studied in Prague, Amsterdam,
and Munich, she was a pupil of Doris Raab in etching. She paints portraits, genre and still-life
subjects with artistic taste and delicacy. Her studio is in Prague. Among her best pictures
are "Battle for Truth," "Sentinels of Peace," "A Contented Old Woman"; and among her etchings
may be named "The Veiled Picture of Saïs," "Prometheus," "The Microscopist," "Before the Bar
of Reason," etc. The latter was reproduced in Zeitschrift für bildende Kunst in 1893, and was
said to show a powerful fancy.

In 1875 and 1876 she exhibited her etchings in Vienna. The "Going to Baptism" in the second
exhibition was much admired and aroused unusual interest.

<b>LA VILLETTE, MME. ELODIE.</b> Third-class medal, Paris Salon, 1875; bronze medal, Paris
Exposition, 1889; second-class medal, Melbourne Exposition; numerous diplomas and medals from
provincial exhibitions in France; also from Vienna, Brussels, Antwerp, Amsterdam, London, Copenhagen,
Barcelona, Munich, and Chicago. Officer of the Academy. Born at Strasbourg. Educated at Lorient.
She began to study drawing and painting under Coroller, a professor in the school she attended.
She then studied six months in the Atelier School at Strasbourg, and finally became a pupil
of Dubois at Arras. She has exhibited since 1870.

Her picture of the "Strand at Lohic," 1876, is in the Luxembourg Gallery; the "Cliffs of Yport"
is in the Museum of Lille; "A Calm at Villers," in the Museum at Lorient; "Coming Tide at Kervillaine,"
in the museum of Morlaix, etc. Her marine views are numerous and are much admired.

At the Salon of the Artistes Français, 1902, Mme. La Villette exhibited "Twilight, Quiberon,
Morbihan"; in 1903, "Fort Penthièvre, Quiberon," and "A Foaming Wave."

<b>LE BRUN, MME.</b> See Vigée.

<b>LEHMANN, CHARLOTTE.</b> Born in Vienna, 1860. Daughter of an artist, Katharine Lehmann.
Pupil of Schilcher and Pitner. Her works are principally portraits and studies of heads, in
which she is successful. Her "Styrian Maiden" belongs to the Austrian Emperor, and is in Gödöllö
castle.

Her portraits are seen at many exhibitions, and art critics mention her with respect.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>LEMAIRE, MME. JEANNE-MADELEINE.</b> Honorable mention, 1877; silver medal, Paris Exposition,
1900. Born at Sainte Rosseline. Pupil of an aunt, who was a miniaturist, and later of Chaplin.
She first exhibited at the Salon of 1864, a "Portrait of Madame, the Baroness." She has painted
many portraits, and is extremely successful in her pictures of flowers and fruit.

Among her principal works are "Diana and Her Dog," "Going out of Church," "Ophelia," "Sleep,"
"The Fall of the Leaves," and "Manon."

She has also painted many pictures in water-colors. Since 1890 she has exhibited at the Champ-de-Mars.
Her illustrations in water-colors for "L'Abbé Constantin" and for an edition of "Flirt" are
very attractive.

Her "Roses" at the Salon of 1903 were especially fine, so fresh and brilliant that they seemed
to be actual blossoms.

This artist, not many months ago, called to mind the celebrated Greek supper of Mme. Lebrun,
which was so famous in the time of that artist. The following is an account of the entertainment
given by Mme. Lemaire:

"A most fascinating banquet was given in Paris quite recently by Madeleine Lemaire, in her
studio, and Parisians pronounce it the most artistic fete that has occurred for many a moon.
Athens was reconstructed for a night. A Greek feast, gathering at the same board the most aristocratic
moderns, garbed in the antique peplum, as the caprice of a great artist. The invitation cards,
on which the hostess had drawn the graceful figure of an Athenian beauty, were worded: 'A Soirée
in Athens in the Time of Pericles. Madeleine Lemaire begs you to honor with your presence the
Greek fête which she will give in her humble abode on Tuesday. Banquet, dances, games, and
cavalcade. Ancient Greek costume de rigueur.' Every one invited responded yes, and from the
Duchess d'Uzès, in a superb robe of cloth of gold and long veil surmounted by a circlet of
diamonds, to that classic beauty Mme. Barrachin, in white draperies with a crown of pink laurel,
the costumes were beautiful. One graceful woman went as Tanagra. The men were some of them
splendid in the garb of old Greek warriors, wearing cuirass and helmet of gold. At dessert
a bevy of pretty girls in classic costume distributed flowers and fruits to the guests, while
Greek choruses sung by female choristers alternated with verses admirably recited by Bartel
and Reichenberg. After the banquet Emma Calvé and Mme. Litoinne sang passages from 'Philémon
et Bacus,' and then there were Greek dances executed by the leading dancers of the Opera. After
supper and much gayety, the evening came to a close by an animated farandole danced by all
present. It takes an artist like Madeleine Lemaire to design and execute such a fete, and beside
it how commonplace appear the costly functions given by society in Newport and New York."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>LEVICK, RUBY WINIFRED.</b> At the South Kensington Royal College of Art this artist gained
the prize for figure design; the medal for a study of a head from life, besides medals and
other awards in the National Competition; British Institution scholarship for modelling, 1896;
gold medal and the Princess of Wales scholarship, 1897; gold medal in national competition,
1898. Member of the Ridley Art Club. Born in Llandaff, Glamorganshire.

This sculptor has exhibited regularly at the Royal Academy since 1898. Among her works are
"Boys Wrestling," group in the round; "Study of a Boy," a statuette; "Fishermen Hauling in
a Net," "Boys Fishing," "The Hammer Thrower," "Rugby Football," and the "Sea Urchin," a statuette.

Miss Levick has executed a panel for the reredos in St. Brelade's Church, Jersey; and another
for St. Gabriel's Church, Poplar. She exhibited at the Academy, 1903, "Sledgehammers: Portion
of a Frieze in Relief."

<b>LEWIS, EDMONIA.</b> Born in the State of New York. This artist descended from both Indian
and African ancestors. She had comparatively no instruction, when, in 1865, she exhibited in
Boston a portrait bust of Colonel Shaw, which at once attracted much attention. In 1867 she
exhibited a statue called the "Freedwoman." Soon after this she took up her residence in Rome
and very few of her works were seen in the United States. She sent to the Philadelphia exhibition,
in 1876, the "Death of Cleopatra," in marble. The Marquis of Bute bought her "Madonna with
the Infant Christ," an altar-piece. Her "Marriage of Hiawatha" was purchased by a New York lady.

Among her other works are "An Old Arrow-Maker and His Daughter," "Asleep," and terra-cotta
busts of Charles Sumner, Longfellow, John Brown, and others.

"Among Miss Lewis's works are two small groups illustrating Longfellow's poem of Hiawatha.
Her first, 'Hiawatha's Wooing,' represents Minnehaha seated, making a pair of moccasins, and
Hiawatha by her side with a world of love and longing in his eyes. In the 'Marriage' they stand
side by side with clasped hands. In both the Indian type of feature is carefully preserved,
and every detail of dress, etc., is true to nature. The sentiment equals the execution. They
are charming bits, poetic, simple, and natural, and no happier illustrations of Longfellow's
most original poem were ever made than these by the Indian sculptor."--Revolution, April, 1871.

"This was not a beautiful work--'Cleopatra'--but it was very original and very striking, and
it merits particular comment, as its ideal was so radically different from those adopted by
Story and Gould in their statues of the Egyptian Queen.... The effects of death are represented
with such skill as to be absolutely repellent. Apart from all questions of taste, however,
the striking qualities of the work are undeniable, and it could only have been produced by
a sculptor of very genuine endowments."--Great American Sculptors.

<b>LEY, SOPHIE.</b> Third-class medal at Melbourne; honor diplomas, Karlsruhe. Member of the
Künstlerbund, Karlsruhe. Born at Bodman am Bodensee, 1859. Pupil of the Art School in Stuttgart,
where she received several prizes; and of Gude and Bracht in Karlsruhe.

Some flower pieces by this artist are in the collection of the Grand Duke of Baden; others
belong to the Hereditary Grand Duke and to the Queen of Saxony; still others are in various
private galleries.

A recently published design for the wall decoration of a school, "Fingerhut im Walde," was
awarded a prize. Fräulein Ley receives young women students in her atelier in Karlsruhe.

<b>LICATA-FACCIOLI, ORSOLA.</b> A first-class and several other medals as a student of the
Academy at Venice. Member of the Academies of Venice and Perugia, 1864. Born in Venice, 1826.
In 1848 she married and made a journey with her husband through Italy. Three pictures which
she exhibited at Perugia, in 1864, won her election to the Academy; the Marquis Ala-Ponzoni
purchased these. The Gallery at Vicenza has several of her views of Venice and Rome, and there
are others in the municipal palace at Naples. Her pictures have usually sold immediately upon
their exhibition, and are scattered through many European cities. At Hamburg is a view of Capodimonte;
at Venice a large picture showing a view of San Marcellino; and at Capodimonte the "Choir of
the Capuchins at Rome." Private collectors have also bought many of her landscapes. Since 1867
she has taught drawing in the Royal Institute at Naples. Two of the Signora's later pictures
are "Arum Italicum," exhibited at Milan in 1881, and a "Park at Capodimonte," shown at the
International Exposition in Rome--the latter is a brilliant piece of work. Her style is vigorous
and robust, and her touch sure. Family cares seem never to have interrupted her art activity,
for her work has been constant and of an especially high order.

<b>LINDEGREN, AMALIA.</b> Member of the Academy of Stockholm. Honorary member of the London
Society of Women Artists. Born in Stockholm. 1814-1891. A student in the above-named Academy,
she was later a pupil of Cogniet and Tissier, in Paris, and afterward visited Rome and Munich.
Her pictures are portraits and genre subjects. In the Gallery at Christiania are her "Mother
and Child" and "Grandfather and Granddaughter." "The Dance in a Peasant Cottage" is in the
Museum of Stockholm, where are also her portraits of Queen Louise and the Crown Princess of
Denmark, 1873. New York Water-Color Club. Born in Philadelphia. Pupil of Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts and Art Students' League, New York.

This artist has painted flowers especially, but of late has taken up genre subjects and landscapes.
Among her pictures is one of "Roses," in the Academy of Fine Arts, and "White Roses," in the
Art Club of Philadelphia. "Sunset in the Hills" is in a private collection, and "The West Window"
is owned in Detroit.

<b>LISZEWSKA, ANNA DOROTHEA.</b> Married name was Therbusch. Member of the Academies of Paris
and Vienna and of the Institute of Bologna. Born in Berlin. 1722-1782. Was court painter at
Stuttgart, and later held the same office under Frederick the Great, whose portrait she painted,
1772. Her picture of "Diana's Return from the Chase" was also painted for Frederick. Her early
studies were conducted by her father. After leaving the court of Stuttgart she studied four
years in Paris. In the Louvre is her picture of "A Man Holding a Glass of Water"; in the Brunswick
Gallery is her portrait of herself; and several of her works are in the Schwerin Gallery. Her
pictures of "A Repentant Maiden," 1781, and of "Ariadne at Naxos" attracted much attention.

<b>LISZEWSKA, ANNA ROSINA.</b> Member of the Dresden Academy. Born in Berlin. 1716-1783. Pupil
of her father. She executed forty portraits of women for the "Hall of Beauty" at Zerbst. One
of her portraits, painted in 1770, is in the Gallery at Brunswick. She travelled in Holland
in 1766, but was too much occupied with commissions to find time for foreign journeys. She
painted a picture called "Artemisia" and a second of "Monime Pulling Down Her Diadem," which
were interesting and excellent examples of her style of painting.

<b>LOCATELLI, OR LUCATELLI, MARIA CATERINA.</b> Of Bologna. Died in 1723. She studied under
Pasinelli, and in the Church of St. Columba in Bologna are two pictures by her--a "St. Anthony"
and a "St. Theresa."

<b>LOEWENTHAL, BARONESS ANKA.</b> Born at Ogulin, Croatia, 1853. Pupil of Karl von Blaas and
Julius von Payer. Some portraits by this artist are in the Academy of Arts and Sciences at
Agram. But religious subjects were most frequently treated by her, and a number of these are
in the Croatian churches. The "Madonna Immaculata" is in the Gymnasial Kirche, Meran, and a
"Mater Dolorosa" in the Klosterkirche, Bruck a. d. Meer.

<b>LONGHI, BARBARA.</b> Born in Ravenna. 1552-1619(?). Daughter of Luca Longhi. She was an
excellent artist and her works were sought for good collections. A portrait by her is in the
Castellani Collection, dated 1589; "St. Monica," "Judith," and the "Healing of St. Agatha"
are in the Ravenna Academy; a "Virgin and Child" is in the Louvre, and "Mary with the Children"
in the Dresden Gallery.

<b>LONGMAN, E. B.</b> This sculptor has a commission to execute a statue of Victory for a dome
at the St. Louis Exposition.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>LOOP, MRS. HENRY A.</b> Elected an associate of the National Academy of Design in 1875.
Born in New Haven, 1840. Pupil of Professor Louis Bail in New Haven, of Henry A. Loop in New
York, later spending two years in study in Paris, Venice, and Rome.

Mrs. Loop is essentially a portrait painter, but occasionally has painted figure pictures,
such as "Baby Belle," "A Little Runaway," "A Bouquet for Mama," etc. Her portraits of Professors
Low and Hadley of New Haven were much admired; those of Mrs. Joseph Lee, Miss Alexander, and
other ladies were exhibited at the Academy.

"Mrs. Loop's picture is an honest, unpretending work, well drawn, naturally posed, and clearly,
solidly colored. There is not a trace of affectation about it. The artistic effects are produced
in the most straightforward way."--Clarence Cook, in New York Tribune.

"Mrs. Loop is certainly the leading portrait painter among our lady artists. She is vigorous,
conscientious, and perceptive."--Chicago Times, 1875.

<b>LOTZ, MATILDA.</b> Gold medal at School of Design, California. Born in Franklin, Tennessee.
This artist is sometimes called "the Rosa Bonheur of America." She began to draw pictures of
animals when seven years old. Later she studied under Virgil Williams in San Francisco and
under M. Barrios and Van Marcke in Paris.

She has travelled extensively in the East, painting camels, dromedaries, etc. Her work has
a vigor and breadth well suited to her subjects, while she gives such attention to details
as make her pictures true to life. One critic writes: "Her oxen and camels, like Rosa Bonheur's
horses, stand out from canvas as living things. They have been the admiration of art lovers
at the Salon in Paris, the Royal Academy in London, and at picture exhibitions in Austria-Hungary
and Germany."

Among her works are "Oxen at Rest," "The Artist's Friends," "Hounds in the Woods," painted
in California. "Mourning for Their Master," "The Sick Donkey," and other less important pictures
are in private collections in Hungary. "The Early Breakfast" is in a gallery in Washington,
D. C. She has painted portraits of famous horses owned by the Duke of Portland, which are in
England, as is her picture called "By the Fireside."

<b>LOUD, MAY HALLOWELL.</b> Member of the Copley Society and Boston Water-Color Club. Born
in West Medford, Massachusetts, 1860. Pupil of the School of Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Julian
Academy, Paris; Cowles Art School, Boston. In Paris, under Tony Robert-Fleury, Giacomotti,
and Louis Deschamps. Later under Abbott Thayer and Denman W. Ross.

Mrs. Loud's works are principally portraits, and are in private hands. Her picture called "The
Singer" was purchased by the Atlanta Exposition, and is in a collection in that city. She works
mostly in oils, but has been successful in portraits in pastel; two admirable examples were
exhibited in Boston recently, and were favorably noticed for their color and "temperance in
the use of high relief."

<b>LOUISE, PRINCESS.</b> See Argyll.

<b>LUSK, MARIE K.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>LUTMER, EMMY.</b> Medal at Munich, 1888. Born at Elberfeld, 1859. Pupil of the School of
Art Industries at Munich and of the Museums of Berlin and Vienna. This skilled enamel painter
has her studio in Berlin, where she executes fine and beautiful work.

<b>MACCHESNEY, CLARA TAGGART.</b> Two medals at Chicago Exposition, 1893; Dodge prize, National
Academy, New York, 1894; gold medal, Philadelphia Art Club, 1900; Hallgarten prize, National
Academy, 1901; bronze medal, Buffalo Exposition, 1901. Three medals at Colarossi School, Paris.
Member of National Art Club, Barnard Club, and Water-Color Club, all of New York. Born in Brownsville,
California. Pupil of Virgil Williams in San Francisco Art School; of H. C. Mowbray, J. C. Beckwith,
and William Chase in Gotham Art School; and of G. Courtois, A. Girardot, and R. X. Prinet in
Colarossi School, Paris. Exhibited at Paris Salon, Beaux Arts, in 1896, 1898, and at the Exposition
in 1900.

This artist paints figure subjects. Among these are "Retrospection," Boston Art Club; "Tired,"
Erie Art Club; "A Good Story," National Arts Club, New York; "The Old Cobbler," etc.

Her prize picture at the National Academy, New York, 1894, was called "The Old Spinner." This
picture had been refused by the committee of the Society of American Artists, only to be thought
worthy a prize at the older institution.

<b>MACGREGOR, JESSIE.</b> The gold medal in the Royal Academy Schools for historical painting,
a medal given biennially, and but one other woman has received it. Born in Liverpool. Pupil
of the Schools of the Royal Academy; her principal teachers were the late Lord Leighton, the
late P. H. Calderon, R.A., and John Pettie, R.A.

Her principal works are "In the Reign of Terror" and "Jephthah's Vow," both in the Liverpool
Permanent Collection; "The Mistletoe Bough"; "Arrested, or the Nihilist"; "Flight," exhibited
at Royal Academy in 1901; "King Edward VII.," 1902.

Miss Macgregor is a lecturer on art in the Victoria University Extension Lecture Scheme, and
has lectured on Italian painting and on the National Gallery in many places.

At the London Academy in 1903 she exhibited "The Nun," "If a Woman Has Long Hair, it is a Glory
to Her," I Cor. xi. 15; "Behind the Curtain," "Christmas in a Children's Hospital," and "Little
Bo-peep."

<b>MACKUBIN, FLORENCE.</b> Bronze medal and diploma, Tennessee Exposition, 1897. Vice-president
of Baltimore Water-Color Club. Born in Florence, Italy. Studied in Fontainebleau under M. Lainé,
in Munich under Professor Herterich, and in Paris under Louis Deschamps and Julius Rolshoven;
also with Mlle. J. Devina in miniature painting.

Miss Mackubin has exhibited at the Paris Salon, the London Academy, and the National Academy,
New York. Her works are portraits in miniature, pastel, and oil colors.

She was appointed by the Board of Public Works of Maryland to copy the portrait of Queen Henrietta
Maria, for whom Maryland was named. The portrait is by Vandyck and in Warwick Castle. Miss
Mackubin's copy is in the State House at Annapolis.

Her portraits are numerous. Among them are those of Mrs. Charles J. Bonaparte, Justice Horace
Gray, Hon. George F. Hoar, Mrs. Thomas F. Bayard, and many others. In England she painted portraits
of the Countess of Warwick, the Marchioness of Bath, and several other ladies.

Miss Mackubin's portrait of Cardinal Gibbons, exhibited in Baltimore in 1903, is much praised.
He is sitting in an armchair near a table on which are books. The pose of the figure is natural,
the drawing excellent, the flesh tints well handled, and the likeness satisfactory to an unusual
degree. The accessories are justly rendered and the values well preserved--the texture of the
stuffs, the ring on the hand, the hand delicate and characteristic; in short, this is an excellent
example of dignified portraiture.

<b>MACMONNIES, MARY FAIRCHILD.</b> Awarded a scholarship in Paris by the St. Louis School of
Fine Arts; medal at Chicago, 1893; bronze medal at Paris Exposition, 1900; bronze medal at
Buffalo, 1901; gold medal at Dresden, 1902; Julia M. Shaw prize, Society of American Artists,
New York, 1902. Associate member of Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts, Paris; member of the
Society of American Artists, New York. Born at New Haven, Connecticut, about 1860.

Pupil of School of Fine Arts, St. Louis, Academy Julian, Paris, and of Carolus Duran.

Exhibited at Salon des Beaux-Arts, 1902, "The October Sun," "The Last Rays," and "The Rain";
in 1903, "A Snow Scene."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>MACOMBER, MARY L.</b> Bronze medal, Massachusetts Charitable Mechanics' Association, 1895;
bronze medal, Cotton State and International Exposition, 1895; Dodge prize, National Academy,
New York, 1897; honorable mention, Carnegie Institute, 1901. Member of the Copley Society,
Boston. Born in Fall River, Massachusetts, 1861. Pupil of Robert Dunning, School of Boston
Art Museum under Otto Grundmann and F. Crowninshield, and of Frank Duveneck.

This artist paints figure subjects. Her "Saint Catherine" is in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts;
"Spring Opening the Gate to Love" was in the collection of the late Mrs. S. D. Warren; "The
Annunciation" is in the collection of Mrs. D. P. Kimball, Boston. Other works of hers are a
triptych, the "Magdalene," "Death and the Captive," "The Virgin of the Book," etc.

"One feels, on looking at the Madonnas, Annunciation, or any of Miss Macomber's pictures,...
that she must have lived with and in her subject. Delicate coloring harmonizes with refined,
spiritual conceptions.... Her most generally liked picture is her 'Madonna.' All the figures
wear a sweet, solemn sadness, illumined by immortal faith and love."--Art Interchange, April, 1899.

<b>MAGLIANI, FRANCESCA.</b> Born at Palermo in 1845, and studied painting there under a private
teacher. Going later to Florence she was a pupil of Bedussi and of Gordigiani. Her early work
consisted of copies from the Italian and other masters, and these were so well done that she
soon began to receive orders, especially for portraits, from well-known people. Among them
were G. Baccelli--the Minister of Public Instruction--King Humbert, and Queen Margherita, the
latter arousing much interest when exhibited in Florence. Portraits of her mother, and of her
husband, who was the Minister of Finance, were also recognized as admirable examples of portraiture.
"Modesty and Vanity" is one of her genre pictures.

<b>MANGILLA, ADA.</b> Gold medal at Ferrara for a "Bacchante," which is now in the Gallery
there; gold medal at Beatrice, in Florence, 1890, for the "Three Marys." Born in Florence in
1863. Pupil of Cassioli. One of her early works was a design for two mosaic figures in the
left door of the Cathedral in Florence, representing Bonifazio Lupi and Piero di Luca Borsi;
this was exhibited in 1879, and was received with favor by the public.

This artist has had much success with Pompeian subjects, such as "A Pompeian Lady at Her Toilet,"
and "A Pompeian Flower-Seller." She catches with great accuracy the characteristics of the
Pompeian type; and this facility, added to the brilliancy of her color and the spirit and sympathy
of her treatment, has given these pictures a vogue. Two of them were sold in Holland. "Floralia"
was sold in Venice. To an exhibition of Italian artists in London, in 1889, she contributed
"The Young Agrippa," which was sold to Thomas Walker. Her grace and fancy appear in the drawings
which she finds time to make for "Florentia," and in such pictures as "The Rose Harvest."

This highly accomplished woman, who has musical and literary talent, is the wife of Count Francessetti
di Mersenile.

<b>MANKIEWICZ, HENRIETTE.</b> Chevalier of the Legion of Honor. A series of her mural decorations
was exhibited in various German cities, and finally shown at the Paris Exposition of 1890(?),
where they excited such applause that the above honor was accorded her. These decorations are
in the form of panels, in which water, in its varying natural aspects, supplies the subordinate
features, while the fundamental motive is vegetation of every description. The artist has evidently
felt the influence of Markart in Vienna, and some of her conceptions remind one of H. von Preusschen.
Her technique is a combination of embroidery, painting, and applications on silk. Whether this
combination of methods is desirable is another question, but as a means of decoration it is
highly effective.

At an exhibition of paintings by women of Saxony, held in Dresden under the patronage of Queen
Carola in the fall of 1892, this artist exhibited another decorative panel, done in the same
manner, which seems to have been a great disappointment to those who had heard wonderful accounts
of the earlier cycle of panels. It was too full of large-leaved flowers, and the latter were
too brilliant to serve as a foreground to the Alhambra scenes, which were used as the chief motive.

<b>MANLY, ALICE ELFRIDA.</b> A national gold medal and the Queen's gold medal, at the Royal
Female School of Art, London. Member of the Dudley Gallery Art Society and the Hampstead Art
Society. Born in London. Pupil of the above-mentioned School and of the Royal Academy Schools.

This artist has exhibited at the Academy, at the Royal Institute of Painters in Water Colors,
and other exhibitions. Her pictures have frequently been sold from the exhibitions and reproduced.
Among these are "Sympathy," sold as first prize in Derby Art Union; "Diverse Attractions";
"Interesting Discoveries"; "Coming," sold from the Royal Academy; "Gossips"; "The Wedding Gown,"
etc.

Miss Manly has done much work for publishers, which has been reproduced in colors and in black
and white. She usually combines figures and landscape.

<b>MANTOVANI, SIGNORA S. ROME.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>MARAINI, ADELAIDE.</b> Gold medal in Florence, at Beatrice Exposition, 1903. Born in 1843.
This sculptor resides in Rome, where her works have been made. An early example of her art,
"Camilla," while it gave proof of her artistic temperament, was unimportant; but her later
works, as they have followed each other, have constantly gained in excellence, and have won
her an enviable reputation. Among her statues are "Amleto," "The Sulamite Woman," and "Sappho."
The last was enthusiastically received in Paris in 1878, and is the work which gained the prize
at Florence, where it was said to be the gem of the exhibition. She has also executed a monument
to Attilio Lemmi, which represents "Youth Weeping over the Tomb of the Dead," and is in the
Protestant Cemetery at Florence; a bas-relief, the "Angels of Prayer and of the Resurrection";
a group, "Romeo and Juliet"; and portraits of Carlo Cattanei, Giuseppe Civinini, Signora Allievi,
Senator Musio, the traveller De Albertis, and Victor Emmanuel.

<b>MARCELLE, ADÈLE,</b> Duchess of Castiglione-Colonna, family name d'Affry. Born at Fribourg,
Switzerland, 1837, and died at Castellamare, 1879. Her early manner was that of the later Cinquecento,
but she afterward adopted a rather bombastic and theatrical style. Her only statue, a Pythia,
in bronze was placed in the Grand Opera at Paris (1870). In the Luxembourg Museum are marble
busts of Bianca Capello (1863) and an "Abyssinian Sheikh" (1870). A "Gorgon" (1865), a "Saviour"
(1875), "La Bella Romana" (1875) are among her other works. She left her art treasures, valued
at about fifty thousand francs, to the Cantonal Museum at Fribourg, where they occupy a separate
room, called the Marcello Museum.

<b>MARCOVIGI, CLEMENTINA.</b> Born in Bologna, where she resides. Flower pieces exhibited by
her at Turin in 1884 and at Venice in 1887 were commended for perfection of design and charm
of color.

<b>MARIA FEODOROVNA,</b> wife of the Czar Peter I. As Princess Dorothea Auguste Sophie of Würtemberg
she was born at Trepton in 1759, and died at Petersburg in 1858. She studied under Leberecht,
and engraved medals and cameos, many of which are portraits of members of the royal family
and are in the royal collection at Petersburg. She was elected to the Berlin Academy in 1820.

<b>MARIANI, VIRGINIA.</b> Honorary member of the Umbrian Academy and of the Academy of the
Virtuosi of the Pantheon. Born in Rome, 1824, where she has met with much success in decorating
pottery, as well as in oil and water-color paintings. The Provincial Exposition at Perugia
in 1875 displayed her "Mezze Figure," which was highly commended. She has decorated cornices,
with flowers in relief, as well as some vases that are very beautiful. Besides teaching in
several institutions and receiving private pupils, she has been an inspector, in her own department
of art, of the municipal schools of Rome.

<b>MARIE, DUCHESS OF WÜRTEMBERG.</b> Daughter of Louis Philippe, and wife of Duke Frederick
William Alexander of Würtemberg. Born at Palermo, 1813, and died at Pisa, 1839. She studied
drawing with Ary Scheffer. Her statue of "Jeanne d'Arc" is at Versailles; in the Ferdinand
Chapel, in the Bois de Boulogne, is the "Peri as a Praying Angel"; in the Saturnin Chapel at
Fontainebleau is a stained-glass window with her design of "St. Amalia." Among her other works
are "The Dying Bayard," a relief representing the legend of the Wandering Jew, and a bust of
the Belgian Queen. Many of her drawings are in possession of her family. She also executed
some lithographs, such as "Souvenirs of 1812," 1831, etc.

<b>MARIE LOUISE, EMPRESS OF FRANCE.</b> 1791-1846. She studied under Prud'hon. Her "Girl with
a Dove" is in the Museum of Besançon.

<b>MARLEF, CLAUDE.</b> Bronze medal at Paris Exposition, 1900. Associate of the French National
Society of Fine Arts (Beaux-Arts). Born at Nantes. Pupil of A. Roll, Benjamin Constant, Puvis
de Chavannes, and Dagnaux.

Mme. Marlef is a portrait painter. Her picture, "Manette Salomon," is in the Hotel de Ville,
Paris; the "Nymphe Accroupie" is in the Municipal Museum of Nantes. Among her portraits of
well-known women are those of Jane Hading, Elsie de Wolfe, Bessie Abbott of the Opera, Rachel
Boyer of the Theatre Français, Marguerite Durand, Editeur de la Fronde, Mlle. Richepin, and
many others.

Mme. Marlef has the power of keen observation, so necessary to a painter of portraits. Although
there is a certain element of soft tenderness in her pictures, the bold virility of her drawing
misled the critics, who for a time believed that her name was used to conceal the personality
of a man. A critic in the Paris World writes of this artist: "She has exquisite color sense
and delights in presenting that exaltation de la vie, that love, radiance, and joy of life,
which are at once the secret of the success and the keynote of the masterful canvases of Roll,
in whose studio were first developed Claude Marlef's delicate qualities of truthful perception
in the portraiture of woman.... Her perceptions being rapid, she has a remarkable instantaneous
insight, enabling her to fix the dominant feature and soul of expression in each of the various
types among her numerous sitters."

Mme. Marlef's family name is Lefebure. Her husband died in 1891, the year after their marriage,
and she then devoted herself to the serious study of painting, which she had practised from
childhood. She first exhibited at the Salon, 1895, and has exhibited annually since then. In
1902 she sent her own portrait, and in 1903 that of Bessie Abbott, to the Exhibition of the
Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts.

<b>MARTIN DE CAMPO, VICTORIA.</b> Member of the Academy of Fine Arts of Cadiz, her native city.
In the different expositions of this and other Andalusian capitals she has exhibited since
1840 many works, including portraits, genre, historical pictures, and copies. Among them may
be mentioned "Susanna in the Bath," "David Playing the Harp before Saul," a "Magdalen," a "Cupid,"
a "Boy with a Linnet," and a "Nativity." Some of these were awarded prizes. In the Chapel of
Relics in the new Cathedral at Cadiz are her "Martyrdom of St. Lawrence" and a "Mater Dolorosa."

<b>MARTINEAU, EDITH.</b> Associate of Royal Society of Painters in Water-Colors; member of
the Hampstead Art Society. Born in Liverpool, where she made her first studies in the School
of Art, and later became a pupil of the Royal Academy Schools, London.

Her pictures are not large and are principally figures or figures in landscape, and all in
water-colors. She writes very modestly that so many are sold and in private hands that she
will give no list of subjects.

<b>MASSARI, LUIGIA.</b> Medal at Piacenza, 1869, and several other medals from art societies.
Born at Piacenza, 1810. Pupil of A. Gemmi. Her works are in a number of churches: "St. Martin"
in the church at Altoé; "St. Philomena" in the church at Busseto; the "Madonna del Carmine"
and "St. Anna" in the church at Monticelli d'Ongina. This artist was also famous for her beautiful
embroidery, as seen in her altar-cloths, one of which is in the Guastafredda Chapel at Piacenza.
The fruits and flowers produced by her needle are marvellously like those in her pictures.

<b>MASSEY, MRS. GERTRUDE.</b> Member of the Society of Miniaturists. Born in London, 1868.
Has studied with private teachers in London and Paris.

This painter has made a specialty of miniatures and of pictures of dogs. She has been extensively
employed by various members of the royal family, of whom she painted eleven miniatures, among
which was one of the late Queen.

She sends me a list of several pictures of dogs and "Pets," all belonging to titled English
ladies; also a long list of miniatures of gentlemen, ladies, and children of high degree, several
being of the royal family, in addition, I suppose, to the eleven mentioned above.

She writes me: "Constantly met King and Queen and other members. Sittings took place at Windsor
Castle, Sandringham, Marlborough House, Osborne, and Balmoral. One dog died after first sitting;
had to finish from dead dog. Live in charming little cottage with genuine old-fashioned garden
in St. John's Wood."

Mrs. Massey has exhibited at the Royal Academy and New Gallery, and has held a special exhibition
of her pictures of dogs at the Fine Art Society, New Bond Street, London.

<b>MASSIP, MARGUERITE.</b> Member of the Society of Swiss Painters and Sculptors and of the
Society of Arts and Letters, Geneva. Born at Geneva. Made her studies in Florence and Paris
under the professors in the public schools. Her picture of "Le Buveur" is in the Museum of
Geneva; "Five o'Clock Tea," also in a Geneva Museum; "La Bohemienne" is at Nice; "The Engagement"--a
dancer--at St. Gall, and a large number of portraits in various cities, belonging to their
subjects and their families.

Her portrait of Mme. M. L. was very much praised when exhibited in proximity with the works
of some of the famous French artists. One critic writes: "The painting is firm and brilliant.
The hands are especially beautiful; we scarcely know to whom we can compare Mme. Massip, unless
to M. Paul Dubois. They have the same love of art, the same soberness of tone, the same scorn
of artifice.... The woman who has signed such a portrait is a great artist." It is well known
that the famous sculptor is a remarkable portraitist.

In a review of the Salon at Nice we read: "A portrait by Mme. Massip is a magnificent canvas,
without a single stroke of the charlatan. The pose is simple and dignified; there is the serenity
and repose of a woman no longer young, who makes no pretension to preserve her vanishing beauty;
the costume, in black, is so managed that it would not appear superannuated nor ridiculous
at any period. The execution is that of a great talent and an artistic conscience. It is not
a portrait for a bedchamber, still less for a studio; it is a noble souvenir for a family,
and should have a place in the salon, in which, around the hearth, three generations may gather,
and in this serene picture may see the wife, the mother, and the grandmother, when they mourn
the loss of her absolute presence."

<b>MASSOLIEN, ANNA.</b> Born at Görlitz, 1848. A pupil of G. Gräf and of the School of Women
Artists in Berlin. Her portraits of Field Marshal von Steinmetz, Brückner, and G. Schmidt by
their excellence assured the reputation of this artist, whose later portraits are greatly admired.

<b>MATHILDE, PRINCESS.</b> Medal at Paris Salon, 1865. Daughter of King Jerome Bonaparte. Born
at Trieste, 1820; died at Paris, 1904. Pupil of Eugene Giraud. She painted genre subjects in
water-colors. Her medal picture, "Head of a Young Girl," is in the Luxembourg; "A Jewess of
Algiers," 1866, is in the Museum of Lille; "The Intrigue under the Portico of the Doge's Palace"
was painted in 1865.

<b>MATHILDE CAROLINE,</b> Grand Duchess of Hesse. Was born Princess of Bavaria. 1813-1863.
Pupil of Dominik Onaglio. In the New Gallery at Munich are two of her pictures--"View of the
Magdalen Chapel in the Garden at Nymphenburg," 1832, and "Outlook on the Islands, Procida and
Ischia," 1836.

<b>MATTON, IDA.</b> Two grand prizes and a purse, also a travelling purse from the Government
of Sweden; honorable mention at the Paris Salon, 1896; honorable mention, Paris Exposition,
1900; prize for sculpture at the Union des femmes peintres et sculpteurs, 1903. Decorated with
the "palmes académique" of President Loubet, 1903. Member of the Union des femmes peintres
et sculpteurs, Paris. Born at Gefle, Sweden. Pupil of the Technical School, Stockholm, and
of H. Chapu, A. Mercie, and D. Puech at Paris.

Among the works of this artist are "Mama!" a statue in marble; "Loké," a statue; "Dans les
Vagues," a marble bust; "Funeral Monument," in bronze, in Gefle, Sweden; and a great number
of portrait busts and various subjects in bas-relief. Born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Pupil
of St. Louis School of Fine Arts and of Julian Academy, under Collin and Merson. At the Salon
of 1900 her picture, "Mother and Child," was hung on the line.

Miss Maury has made an especial study of child life. Among her pictures are "Little Sister,"
"Choir Boy," "Late Breakfast," and "First Steps." The latter picture and the "Baby in a Go-Cart"
have been published in the Copley Prints.

"Cornelia F. Maury is most successful in portrayals of childhood. Her small figures are simple,
unaffected, with no suggestion of pose. They convey that delightful feeling of unconsciousness
in the subject that is always so charming either in nature or in artistic expression. The pastel
depicting the flaxen-haired child in blue dress drawing a tiny cart is exceedingly artistic,
and the same may be said of a pastel showing a small child in a Dutch high-chair near a window.
A third picture--also a pastel--represents a choir-boy in a red robe, red cap, and white surplice,
sitting in a high-backed, carved chair, holding a book in his hand. Miss Maury really has produced
nothing finer than this last. It is a most excellent work."--The Mirror, St. Louis, April 10, 1902.

<b>MAYREDER-OBERMAYER, ROSE.</b> Born in Vienna, 1858. Pupil of Darnaut and Charmont. The works
of this successful painter of flowers and still-life have been exhibited in Berlin, Vienna,
Dresden, and Chicago. She has a broad, sure touch quite unusual in water-colors. She has also
executed some notable decorative works, one of which, "November," has attracted much attention.

<b>MCCROSSAN, MARY.</b> Silver and bronze medals, Liverpool; silver medal and honorable mention,
Paris. Has exhibited at Royal Academy, London, at Royal Institute of Oil Colors, and many other
English and Scotch exhibitions. Member of Liverpool Academy of Arts and of the Liverpool Sketching
Club. Born in Liverpool. Studied at Liverpool School of Art under John Finnie; Paris, under
M. Delécluse; St. Ives, Cornwall, under Julius Ollson.

The principal works of this artist are marine subjects and landscapes, and are mostly in private
collections.

In the Studio, November, 1900, we read: "Miss McCrossan's exhibition of pictures and sketches
displayed a pleasant variety of really clever work, mostly in oils, with a few water-colors
and pastels. In each medium her color is strong, rich, and luminous, and her drawing vigorous
and certain.

"While this artist's landscape subjects are intelligently selected and attractively rendered,
there is unusual merit in her marine pictures, composed mainly from the fisher-craft of the
Isle of Man and the neighborhood of St. Ives, and recording effects of brilliant sunshine lighting
up white herring boats lying idly on intensely reflective blue sea, or aground on the harbor
mud at low tide. There is a fascination in the choice color treatment of these characteristic
pictures."

<b>MCLAUGHLIN, MARY LOUISE M.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1878; silver medal, Paris
Exposition, 1889; gold medal, Atlanta, 1895; bronze medal, Buffalo, 1900. Member of the Society
of Arts, London; honorary member of National Mineral Painters' League, Cincinnati. Born in
Cincinnati, Ohio. Pupil of Cincinnati Art Academy and of H. F. Farny and Frank Duveneck in
private classes.

Miss McLaughlin has painted in oil and water-colors and exhibited in various places, as indicated
by the honors she has received. Having practised under- and over-glaze work on pottery, as
well as porcelain etching and decorative etching on metals, she is now devoting herself to
making the porcelain known as Losanti Ware.

Of a recent exhibition, 1903, a critic wrote: "Perhaps the most beautiful and distinguished
group in the exhibition is that of Miss McLaughlin, one of the earliest artistic workers in
clay of the United States. She sends a collection of lovely porcelain vases, of a soft white
tone and charming in contour. Some of these have open-work borders, others are decorated in
relief, and the designs are tinted with delicate jade greens, dark blues, or salmon pinks.
This ware goes by the name of Losanti, from the early name of Cincinnati, L'Osantiville."

This artist has written several books on china painting and pottery decoration.

<b>MCMANUS MANSFIELD, BLANCHE.</b> Diplomas from the New Orleans Centennial and the Woman's
Department, Chicago, 1903. Member of the New Vagabonds, London, and the Touring Club of France.
Born in East Feliciana Parish, Louisiana, this artist has made her studies in London and Paris.
Her principal work has been done in book illustrations. The following list gives some of her
most important publications:

    "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass." De
        Luxe edition in color. New York, 1899.

    "The Calendar of Omar Khayyam." In color. New York, 1900.

    "The Altar Service." Thirty-six wood-cut blocks printed on
       Japan vellum. London, 1902.

    "The Coronation Prayer-Book." (Wood-cut borders.) Oxford
       University Press, 1902.

    "Cathedrals of Northern France." In collaboration with Francis
       Miltoun. Boston and London, 1903.

    "Cathedrals of Southern France." In collaboration with Francis
       Miltoun. Sold for publication in London and Boston, 1904.

    "A Dante Calendar." London, 1903.

    "A Rubaiyat Calendar." Boston, 1903.

    "The King's Classics." (Designs and Decorations.) London,
       1902-1903.

    "The Book of Days." A Calendar. Sold in London for 1904.

After speaking of several works by Miss McManus, a notice from London says: "A more difficult
or at least a more intricate series were the designs cut on wood for 'The Altar Service Book,'
just issued in London by that newly founded venture, the De La More Press; which has drawn
unto itself such scholars as Dr. Furnival, Professor Skeat, and Israel Gollancz. These designs
by Miss McManus were printed direct from the wood blocks in very limited editions, on genuine
vellum, on Japanese vellum, and a small issue on a real sixteenth-century hand-made paper.
The various editions were immediately taken up in London on publication; hence it is unlikely
that copies will be generally seen in America.

"We learn, however, that the original wood blocks will be shown at the St. Louis Exposition,
in the section to be devoted to the work of American artists resident abroad. We suggest that
all lovers of latter-day bookmaking 'make a note of it,' recalling meanwhile that it was this
successful American designer who produced also the decorative wood-cut borders and initials
which were used in 'The Coronation Prayer-Book of King Edward VII.,' issued from the celebrated
Oxford University Press. There were forty initials or headings, embodying the coronation regalia,
including the crown, sceptre, rose, thistle, shamrock, etc. The magnificent cover for the book
was also designed by this artist.

"Among the American artists who have made a distinctive place in art circles, not only in America
but on 'the other side,' is Mrs. M. F. Mansfield, formerly Blanche McManus of Woodville, Mississippi.

"In London she is widely known as a skilful, able, and versatile artist, and her remarkable
success there is an illustration of 'the American invasion.' Little has been written in America,
especially in the South, of what this talented Southern woman has accomplished. She has never
sought personal advertisement; on the contrary, she has shrunk from any kind of publicity--even
that which would have accrued from a proper valuation of her work.

"She is one of those artists whose talent is equalled only by her modesty, who, enamoured of
her art and aiming at a patient, painstaking realization of her ideal, has been content to
work on in silence. In the estimation of art connoisseurs, Blanche McManus is an artist of
unquestionable talent and varied composition, who has already done much striking work. Her
execution in the various branches has attracted international attention.

"She paints well in water-colors and in oil, and her etching is considered excellent. Her drawing
is stamped good, and every year she has showed rapid improvement in design. She is a highly
cultivated woman, with a close and accurate observation. A sincere appreciation of nature was
revealed in her earliest efforts, and for some years she devoted much time to its study."

Moring's Quarterly says in regard to the special work which Mrs. Mansfield has done: "It is
so seldom that an artist is able to take in hand what may be termed the entire decoration of
a book--including in that phrase cover, illustration, colophon, head- and tail-pieces, initial
letters, and borders--that it is a pleasure to find in the subject of our paper a lady who
may be said to be capable of taking all these points into consideration in the embellishment
of a volume."

<b>MEDICI, MARIE DE'.</b> Wife of Henry IV. Born at Florence, 1573; died at Cologne, 1642.
A portrait of herself, engraved on wood, bears the legend, "Maria Medici F. MDLXXXII." Another
portrait of a girl, attributed to her, is signed, "L. O. 1617." It may be considered a matter
of grave doubt whether the nine-year-old girl drew and engraved with her own hand the first-named
charming picture, which has been credited to her with such frank insouciance.

<b>MENGS, ANNA MARIA.</b> Member of the Academy of San Fernando. She was a daughter of Anton
Rafael Mengs, and was born in Dresden in 1751, where she received instruction from her father.
In 1777 she married the engraver Salvador Carmona in Rome, and went with him to Spain, where
she died in 1790. Portraits and miniatures of excellent quality were executed by her, and on
them her reputation rests.

<b>MERIAN, MARIA SIBYLLA.</b> Born at Frankfort-on-the-Main in 1647. This artist merits our
attention, although her art was devoted to an unusual purpose. Her father was a learned geographer
and engraver whose published works are voluminous. Her maternal grandfather was the eminent
engraver, Theodore de Bry or Brie.

From her childhood Anna Sibylla Merian displayed an aptitude for drawing and a special interest
in insect life. The latter greatly disturbed her mother, but she could not turn the child's
attention from entomology, and was forced to allow that study to become her chief pursuit.

The flower painter, Abraham Mignon, was her master in drawing and painting; but at an early
age, before her studies were well advanced, she married an architect, John Andrew Graf, of
Nuremberg, with whom she lived unhappily. She passed nearly twenty years in great seclusion,
and, as she tells us in the preface to one of her books, she devoted these years to the examination
and study of various insects, watching their transformations and making drawings from them.
Many of these were in colors on parchment and were readily sold to connoisseurs.

Her first published work was called "The Wonderful Transformations of Caterpillars." It appeared
in 1679, was fully illustrated by copper plate engravings, executed by herself from her own
designs. About 1684 she separated from her husband, and with her daughters returned to Frankfort.
Many interesting stories are told of her life there.

She made a journey to Friesland and was a convert to the doctrines of Labadie, but she was
still devoted to her study and research. She was associated with the notable men of her time,
and became the friend of the father of Rachel Ruysch. Although Madame Merian, who had taken
her maiden name, was seventeen years older than the gifted flower painter, she became to her
an example of industry and devotion to study.

Madame Merian had long desired to examine the insects of Surinam, and in 1699, by the aid of
the Dutch Government, she made the journey--of which a French poet wrote:

    "Sibylla à Surinam va chercher la nature,
    Avec l'esprit d'un Sage, et le coeur d'un Heros"

--which indicates the view then held of a journey which would now attract no attention.

While in Guiana some natives brought her a box filled with "lantern flies," as they were then
called. The noise they made at night was so disturbing that she liberated them, and the flies,
regaining liberty, flashed out their most brilliant light, for which Madame Merian was unprepared,
and in her surprise dropped the box. From this circumstance a most exaggerated idea obtained
concerning the illuminating power of the flies.

The climate of Surinam was so unhealthy for Madame Merian that she could remain there but two
years, and in that time she gathered the materials for her great work called "Metamorphoses
Insectorum Surinamensium," etc. The illustrations were her own, and she pictured many most
interesting objects--animals and vegetables as well as insects--which were quite unknown in
Europe. Several editions of this book were published both in German and French. Her plates
are still approved and testify to the scope and thoroughness of her research, as well as to
her powers as an artist.

Her chief work, however, was a "History of the Insects of Europe, Drawn from Nature, and Explained
by Maria Sibylla Merian." The illustrations of this work were beautiful and of great interest,
as the insects, from their first state to their last, were represented with the plants and
flowers which they loved, each object being correctly and tastefully pictured. Most of the
original paintings for these works are in the British Museum. In the Vienna Gallery is a "Basket
of Flowers" by this artist, and in the Basle Museum a picture of "Locust and Chafers."

The daughters of this learned artist naturalist, Joanna Maria Helena and Dorothea, shared the
pursuits and labors of their mother, and it was her intention to publish their drawings as
an appendix to her works. She did not live to do this, and later the daughters published a
separate volume of their own.

This extraordinary woman, whose studies and writings added so much to the knowledge of her
time, was neither beautiful nor graceful. Her portraits present a woman with hard and heavy
features, her hair in short curls surmounted by a stiff and curious headdress, made of folds
of some black stuff.

<b>MERRITT, MRS. ANNA LEA.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1889; two medals and a
diploma, Chicago Exposition, 1893. In 1890 her picture of "Love Locked Out" was purchased by
the Chantry fund, London, for two hundred and fifty pounds. This honor has been accorded to
few women, and of these I think Mrs. Merritt was first. Member of the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers.
Born in Philadelphia. Pupil of Heinrich Hoffman in Dresden, and of Henry Merritt--whom she
married--in London.

Mrs. Merritt has a home in Hampshire, England, but is frequently in Philadelphia, where she
exhibits her pictures, which have also been seen at the Royal Academy since 1871.

This artist is represented by her pictures in the National Gallery of British Art, in the Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts, and by her portrait of Mr. James Russell Lowell in Memorial Hall, Harvard
University.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>MICHIS, MARIA.</b> See Cattaneo.

<b>MILBACHER, LOUISE VON.</b> Prize at Berlin in 1886. Born at Böhmischbrod, 1845. Pupil of
Pönninger and Eisenmenger. A painter of portraits and of sacred and genre subjects. Three of
her portraits are well known--those of Baron Thienen, General von Neuwirth, and Baron Eber-Eschenbach.
The altar-piece in the chapel of the Vienna Institute, a "Holy Family," is by this artist.
She has also painted still-life and animal subjects.

<b>MODIGLIANI, SIGNORINA CORINNA.</b> Silver medal at Turin Exposition, 1898; silver medal
at the Exposition of Feminine Art, 1899, 1900; diploma at Leghorn, 1901; gold medal. Member
of the International Artistic Association. Born in Rome. Pupil of Professore Commendatore Pietro
Vanni.

This artist has exhibited her works in the Expositions of Rome, Turin, Milan, Leghorn, Munich,
Petersburg, and Paris since 1897, and will contribute to the St. Louis Exposition. Her pictures
have been sold in Paris, London, and Ireland, as well as in Rome and other Italian cities,
where many of them are in the collections of distinguished families.

<b>MOLDURA, LILLA.</b> A Neapolitan painter. Her father was an Italian and her mother a Spaniard.
She was instructed in the elements of art by various excellent teachers, and then studied oil
painting under Maldarelli and water-color under Mancini. She has often exhibited pictures in
Naples, to the satisfaction of both artists and critics, and has also won success in London.
She has been almost equally happy in views of the picturesque Campagna, and in interiors, both
in oil and water-colors. The interior of the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception, in the Church
of the Gerolamini, is strong in execution and good in drawing and color.

<b>MÖLLER, AGNES SLOTT.</b> Born in 1862. Resides in Copenhagen. The especial work of this
artist, by which her reputation is world-wide, is the illustration of old legends for children's
books.

<b>MONTALBA, CLARA.</b> Associate of the Society of Painters in Water-Colors, London, and of
the Belgian Society of Water-Colorists. Born in Cheltenham, 1842. Pupil of Isabey in Paris.
Her professional life has been spent in London and Venice. She has sent her pictures to the
Academy and the Grosvenor Gallery exhibitions since 1879. "Blessing a Tomb, Westminster," was
at the Philadelphia Exposition, 1876; "Corner of St. Mark's" and "Fishing Boats, Venice," were
at Paris, 1878.

In 1874 she exhibited at the Society of British Artists, "Il Giardino Publico"--the Public
Garden--of which a writer in the Art Journal said: "'Il Giardino Publico' stands foremost among
the few redeeming features of the exhibition. In delicate perception of natural beauty the
picture suggests the example of Corot. Like the great Frenchman, Miss Montalba strives to interpret
the sadder moods of nature, when the wind moves the water a little mournfully and the outlines
of the objects become uncertain in the filmy air."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>MORETTO, EMMA.</b> Venetian painter, exhibited at Naples, in 1877, "Abbey of St. Gregory
at Venice"; at Turin, in 1880, a fine view of the "Canal of the Giudecca," and "Canal of S.
Giorgio"; at the National Exposition in Milan, 1881, "Sunset" and a marine view; at Rome, in
1883, "Excursion on the Lagoon." Still others of the same general character are: "A Gondola,"
"At St. Mark's," "Grand Canal," "Morning at Sea," etc.

<b>MORON, THERESE CONCORDIA.</b> Born in Dresden, 1725; died in Rome, 1806. Pupil, of her father,
Ismael Mengs. Her attention was divided between enamel painting and pastel, much of the latter
being miniature work. In the Dresden Gallery are two of her pastel portraits and two copies
in miniature of Correggio, viz., a half-length portrait of herself and a portrait of her sister,
Julie Mengs; a copy of St. Jerome, or "The Day"--original in Parma--and "The Night."

A curious story has recently been published to the effect that in 1767 this artist sent word
to Duke Xavier of Saxony that during the Seven Years' War she painted a copy in miniature of
Correggio's "Holy Mother with the Christ Child, Mary Magdalen, Hieronymus, and Two Angels,"
which she sent by Cardinal Albani to the Duke's father--Frederick Augustus II. of Saxony and
Augustus III. of Poland--at Warsaw. It was claimed that two hundred and fifty ducats were due
her. Apparently the demand was not met; but, on the other hand, the lady seems to have received
for some years a pension of three hundred thalers from the Electorate of Saxony without making
any return. Probably her claim was satisfied by this pension.

<b>MOSER, MARY.</b> One of the original members of the London Academy. The daughter of a German
artist, who resided in London. She was as well known for her wit as for her art. A friend of
Fuseli, she was said to be as much in love with him as he was in love with Angelica Kauffman.
Dr. Johnson sometimes met Miss Moser at the house of Nollekens, where they made merry over
a cup of tea.

Queen Charlotte commissioned this painter to decorate a chamber, for which work she paid more
than nine hundred pounds, and was so well pleased that she complimented the artist by commanding
the apartment to be called "Miss Moser's Room."

<b>MOTT, MRS. ALICE.</b> Born at Walton on Thames. Pupil of the Slade School and Royal Academy
in London, and of M. Charles Chaplin in Paris in his studio. A miniaturist whose works are
much esteemed. Her work is life-like, artistic, and strong in drawing, color, and composition.
After finishing her study under masters she took up miniature painting by herself, studying
the works of old miniaturists.

Recently she writes me: "I have departed from the ordinary portrait miniature, and am now painting
what I call picture miniatures. For instance, I am now at work on the portrait of Miss D. C.,
who is in old-fashioned dress, low bodice, and long leg-of-mutton sleeves. She is represented
as running in the open, with sky and tree background. She has a butterfly net over her shoulder,
which floats out on the wind; she is looking up and smiling; her hair and her sash are blown
out. It is to be called, 'I'd be a Butterfly.' The dress is the yellow of the common butterfly.
It is a large miniature. I hope to send it, with others, to the St. Louis Exposition."

Her miniatures are numerous and in private hands. A very interesting one belongs to the Bishop
of Ripon and is a portrait of Mrs. Carpenter, his mother.

<b>MUNTZ, LAURA A.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>MURRAY, ELIZABETH.</b> Member of the Institute of Painters in Water-Colors, London, and
of the American Society of Water-Color Painters, New York. Her pictures are of genre subjects,
many of them being of Oriental figures. Among these are "Music in Morocco," "A Moorish Saint,"
"The Greek Betrothed," etc. Other subjects are "The Gipsy Queen," "Dalmatian Peasant," "The
Old Story in Spain," etc.

<b>NATHAN, SIGNORA LILIAH ASCOLI.</b> Rome.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>NEGRO, TERESA.</b> Born in Turin, where she resides. She has made a study of antique pottery
and has been successful in its imitation. Her vases and amphorae have been frequently exhibited
and are praised by connoisseurs and critics. At the Italian National Exposition, 1880, she
exhibited a terra-cotta reproduction of a classic design, painted in oils; also a wooden dish
which resembled an antique ceramic.

<b>NELLI, PLAUTILLA.</b> There is a curious fact connected with two women artists of Florence
in the middle of the sixteenth century. In that city of pageants--where Ghirlandajo saw, in
the streets, in churches, and on various ceremonial occasions, the beautiful women with whom
he still makes us acquainted--these ladies, daughters of noble Florentine families, were nuns.

No Shakespearean dissector has, to my knowledge, affirmed that Hamlet's advice to Ophelia,
"Get thee to a nunnery," and his assertion, "I have heard of your paintings, too," prove that
Ophelia was an artist and a nunnery a favorable place in which to set up a studio. Yet I think
I could make this assumption as convincing as many that have been "proved" by the post obitum
atomizers of the great poet's every word.

But we have not far to seek for the reasons which led Plautilla Nelli and Maria Maddalena de'
Pazzi to choose the conventual life. The subjects of their pictures prove that their thoughts
were fixed on a life quite out of tune with that which surrounded them in their homes. If they
pictured rich draperies and rare gems, it was but to adorn with them the Blessed Virgin Mother
and the holy saints, in token of their belief that all of pomp and value in this life can but
faintly symbolize the glory of the life to come.

Plautilla Nelli, born in Florence in 1523, entered the convent of St. Catherine of Siena, in
her native city, and in time became its abbess. Patiently, with earnest prayer, she studied
and copied the works of Fra Bartolommeo and Andrea del Sarto, until she was able to paint an
original "Adoration of the Magi" of such excellence as to secure her a place among the painters
of Florence.

Many of her pictures remained in her convent, but she also painted a "Madonna Surrounded by
Saints" for the choir of Santa Lucia at Pistoja. There are pictures attributed to Plautilla
Nelli in Berlin--notably the "Visit of Martha to Christ,"--which are characterized by the earnestness,
purity, and grace of her beloved Fra Bartolommeo. Her "Adoration of the Wise Men" is at Parma;
the "Descent from the Cross" in Florence; the "Last Supper" in the church of Santa Maria Novella,
Florence.

There are traditions of her success as a teacher of painting in her convent, but of this we
have no exact knowledge such as we have of the work of the "Suor Plautilla," the name by which
she came to be known in all Italy.

<b>NEMES-RANSONNETT, COUNTESS ELISA.</b> Born at Vienna, 1843. She studied successively with
Vastagh, Lulos, Aigner, Schilcher, Lenbach, Angeli, and J. Benczur, and opened her studio at
Kun Szent Miklos near Budapest. The "Invitation to the Wedding" was well received, and her
portraits of Schiller and Perczel are in public galleries--the former in the Vienna Künstlerhaus,
and the latter in the Deputy House at Budapest.

<b>NEWCOMB, MARIA GUISE.</b> Born in New Jersey. Pupil of Schenck, Chialiva, and Edouard Detaille
in Paris. Travelled in Algeria and the Sahara, studying the Arab and his horses. Very few artists
can be compared with Miss Newcomb in representing horses. She has a genius for portraying this
animal, and understands its anatomy as few painters have done.

She was but a child when sketching horses and cattle was her pastime, and so great was her
fondness for it that the usual dolls and other toys were crowded out of her life. Her studies
in Paris were comprehensive, and her work shows the results and places her among the distinguished
painters of animals.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>NEY, ELISABETH.</b> Born in 1830. After studying at the Academy in Berlin, this sculptor
went to Munich, where she was devoted to her art. She then came to Texas and remained some
years in America. She returned to Berlin in 1897. Among her best known works are busts of Garibaldi,
of J. Grimm, 1863, "Prometheus Bound," 1868, and a statue of Louis II. of Bavaria.

<b>NICHOLLS, MRS. RHODA HOLMES.</b> Queen's Scholarship, Bloomsbury Art School, London; gold
medal, Competitive Prize Fund Exhibition, New York; medal, Chicago Exposition, 1893; medal,
Tennessee Exposition, 1897; bronze medal at Buffalo Exposition, 1901. Member of American Water-Color
Society, New York Water-Color Society, Woman's Art Club, American Society of Miniature Painters,
Pen and Brush Club; honorable member of Woman's Art Club, Canada. Born in Coventry, England.
Pupil of Bloomsbury School of Art, London; of Cannerano and Vertunni in Rome, where she was
elected to the Circolo Artistico and the Società degli Aquarelliste.

Her pictures are chiefly figure subjects, among which are "Those Evening Bells," "The Scarlet
Letter," "A Daughter of Eve," "Indian after the Chase," "Searching the Scriptures," etc.

In the Studio, March, 1901, in writing of the exhibition of the American Water-Color Society,
the critic says: "In her two works, 'Cherries' and 'A Rose,' Mrs. Rhoda Holmes Nicholls shows
us a true water-color executed by a master hand. The subject of each is slight; each stroke
of her brush is made once and for all, with a precision and dash that are inspiriting; and
you have in each painting the sparkle, the deft lightness of touch, the instantaneous impression
of form and coloring that a water-color should have."

Mrs. Nicholls is also known as an illustrator. Harold Payne says of her: "Rhoda Holmes Nicholls,
although an illustrator of the highest order, cannot be strictly classed as one, for the reason
that she is equally great in every other branch of art. However, as many of her best examples
of water-colors are ultimately reproduced for illustrative purposes, and as even her oil paintings
frequently find their way into the pages of art publications, it is not wrong to denominate
her as an illustrator, and that of the most varied and prolific type. She may, like most artists,
have a specialty, but a walk through her studio and a critical examination of her work--ranging
all along the line of oil paintings, water-colors of the most exquisite type, wash drawings,
crayons, and pastels--would scarcely result in discovering her specialty.... As a colorist
she has few rivals, and her acute knowledge of drawing and genius for composition are apparent
in everything she does."

<b>NICHOLS, CATHERINE MAUDE, R. E.</b> The pictures of this artist have been hung on the line
at the Royal Academy exhibitions a dozen times at least. From Munich she has received an official
letter thanking her for sending her works to exhibitions in that city. Fellow of the Royal
Painter-Etchers' Society; president of the Woodpecker Art Club, Norwich; Member of Norwich
Art Circle and of a Miniature Painters' Society and the Green Park Club, London. Born in Norwich.
Self-taught. Has worked in the open at Barbizon, in Normandy, in Cornwall, Devon, London, and
all around the east coast of Norfolk.

Miss Nichols has held three exhibitions of her pictures both in oil and water-colors in London.
She has executed more than a hundred copper plates, chiefly dry-points. The pictures in oils
and water-colors, the miniatures and the proofs of her works have found purchasers, almost
without exception, and are in private hands. Most of the plates she has retained.

Miss Nichols has illustrated some books, her own poems being of the number, as well as her
"Old Norwich." She has also made illustrations for journals and magazines.

One is impressed most agreeably with the absence of mannerism in Miss Nichols' work, as well
as with the pronounced artistic treatment of her subjects. Her sketches of sea and river scenery
are attractive; the views from her home county, Norfolk, have a delightful feeling about them.
"Norwich River at Evening" is not only a charming picture, but shows, in its perspective and
its values, the hand of a skilful artist. "Mousehold Heath," showing a rough and broken country,
is one of her strongest pictures in oils; "Stretching to the Sea" is also excellent. Among
the water-colors "Strangers' Hall," Norwich, and "Fleeting Clouds," merit attention, as do
a number of others. One could rarely see so many works, with such varied subjects, treated
in oils, water-colors, dry point, etc., by the same artist.

I quote the following paragraph from the Studio of April, 1903: "Miss C. M. Nichols is an artist
of unquestionable talent, and her work in the various mediums she employs deserves careful
attention. She paints well both in water-colors and in oil, and her etchings are among the
best that the lady artists of our time have produced. Her drawing is good, her observation
is close and accurate, and she shows year by year an improvement in design. Miss Nichols was
for several years the only lady fellow of the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers."

Her "Brancaster Staithe" and "Fir Trees, Crown Point," dry points, are in the Norwich Art Gallery,
presented by Sir Seymour Haden, president of the Royal Society of Painter-Etchers. Two of her
works, a large oil painting of "Earlham" and a water-color of "Strangers' Hall," have been
purchased by subscription and presented to the Norwich Castle Art Gallery.

<b>NICOLAU Y PARODY, TERESA.</b> Member of the Academy of San Fernando and of the Academy of
San Carlos of Valencia. This artist, who was born in Madrid, early showed an enthusiasm for
painting, which she at first practised in various styles, but gradually devoted herself entirely
to miniature. She has contributed to many public exhibitions, and has received many prizes
and honorable mentions, as well as praise from the critics. Among her portraits are those of
Isabel de Braganza, Washington, Mme. de Montespan, Mme. Dubarry, Queen Margaret of Austria,
and Don Carlos, son of Philip II. Her other works include a "Magdalen in the Desert," "Laura
and Petrarch," "Joseph with the Christ-Child," "Francis I. at the Battle of Pavia," and many
good copies after celebrated painters.

<b>NIEDERHÄUSEN, MLLE. SOPHIE.</b> Medal at the Swiss National Exposition, 1896. Member of
the Exposition permanente de l'Athénée, Geneva. Born at Geneva. Pupil of Professor Wymann and
M. Albert Gos, and of M. and Mme. Demont-Breton in France.

Mlle. Niederhäusen paints landscapes principally, and has taken her subjects from the environs
of Geneva, in the Valais, and in Pas-de-Calais, France.

Her picture, called the "Bord du Lac de Genève," was purchased by the city and is in the Rath
Museum. She also paints flowers, and uses water-colors as well as oils.

<b>NOBILI, ELENA.</b> Silver medal at the Beatrice Exposition, Florence, 1890. Born in Florence,
where she resides. She is most successful in figure subjects. She is sympathetic in her treatment
of them and is able to impart to her works a sentiment which appeals to the observer. Among
her pictures are "Reietti," "The Good-Natured One," "September," "In the Country," "Music,"
and "Contrasts."

<b>NORMAND, MRS. ERNEST--HENRIETTA RAE.</b> Medals in Paris and at Chicago Exposition, 1893.
Born in London, 1859. Daughter of T. B. Rae, Esquire. Married the artist, Ernest Normand, 1884.
Pupil of Queen's Square School of Art, Heatherley's, British Museum, and Royal Academy Schools.
Began the study of art at the age of thirteen. First exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1880,
and has sent important pictures there annually since that time.

Mrs. Normand executed decorative frescoes in the Royal Exchange, London, the subject being
"Sir Richard Whittington and His Charities."

In the past ten years she has exhibited "Mariana," 1893; "Psyche at the Throne of Venus," 1894;
"Apollo and Daphne," 1895; "Summer," 1896; "Isabella," 1897; "Diana and Calisto," 1899; "Portrait
of Marquis of Dufferin and Ava," 1901; "Lady Winifred Renshaw and Son," and the "Sirens," 1903,
which is a picture of three nude enchantresses, on a sandy shore, watching a distant galley
among rocky islets.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>NOURSE, ELIZABETH.</b> Medal at Chicago Exposition, 1903; Nashville Exposition, 1897; Carthage
Institute, Tunis, 1897; elected associate of the Beaux-Arts, Paris, 1895; silver medal, Paris
Exposition, 1900; elected Sociétaire des Beaux-Arts, 1901. Born in Cincinnati, Ohio, where
she began her studies, later going to the Julian Academy, under Boulanger and Lefebvre, and
afterward studying with Carolus Duran and Henner. This artist idealizes the subjects of every-day,
practical life, and gives them a poetic quality which is an uncommon and delightful attainment.

At the Salon des Beaux-Arts, 1902, Miss Nourse exhibited "The Children," "Evening Toilet of
the Baby," "In the Shade at Pen'march," "Brother and Sister at Pen'march," "The Madeleine Chapel
at Pen'march." In 1903, "Our Lady of Joy, Pen'march," "Around the Cradle," "The Little Sister,"
and "A Breton Interior."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>OAKLEY, VIOLET.</b> Member of Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia Water-Color
Club, Plastic Club, Philadelphia. Born in New Jersey, but has lived in New York, where she
studied at the Art Students' League under Carroll Beckwith. Pupil of Collin and Aman-Jean in
Paris and Charles Lasar in England; also in Philadelphia of Joseph de Camp, Henry Thouron,
Cecilia Beaux, and Howard Pyle.

Miss Oakley has executed mural decorations, a mosaic reredos, and five stained-glass windows
in the Church of All Saints, New York City, and a window in the Convent of the Holy Child,
at Sharon Hill, Pennsylvania.

In the summer of 1903 she was commissioned to decorate the walls of the Governor's reception
room in the new Capitol at Harrisburg. Before engaging in this work--the first of its kind
to be confided to an American woman--Miss Oakley went to Italy to study mural painting. She
then went to England to thoroughly inform herself concerning the historical foundation of her
subject, the history of the earliest days of Pennsylvania. At Oxford and in London she found
what she required, and on her return to America established herself in a studio in Villa Nova,
Pennsylvania, to make her designs for "The Romance of the Founding of the State," which is
to be painted on a frieze five feet deep. The room is seventy by thirty feet, and sixteen feet
in height.

The decoration of this Capitol is to be more elaborate and costly than that of any other public
edifice in the United States. In mural decoration Miss Oakley will be associated with Edwin
A. Abbey, but the Governor's room is to be her work entirely, and will doubtless occupy her
during several years.

Mr Charles A. Caffin, in his article upon the exhibition of the New York Water-Color Club,
January, 1904, says: "Miss Oakley has had considerable experience in designing stained-glass
windows, and has reproduced in some of her designs for book covers a corresponding treatment
of the composition, with an attempt, not very logical or desirable, considering the differences
between paint and glass, to reproduce also something of her window color schemes.... But for
myself, her cover, in which some girls are picking flowers, is far more charming in its easy
grace of composition, choice gravity of color, and spontaneity of feeling. Here is revealed
a very naïve imagination, free of any obsessions."

<b>OCCIONI, SIGNORA LUCILLA MARZOLO.</b> Diploma of gold medal at the Women's Exhibition, Earl's
Court, London, 1900. Born in Trieste. Pupil, in Rome, of Professor Giuseppe Ferrari.

This artist paints figure subjects, portraits, landscapes, and flowers, in both oils and water-colors,
and also makes pen-drawings. Her works are in many private galleries. She gives me no list
of subjects. Her pictures have been praised by critics.

<b>O'CONNELL, FREDERIQUE EMILIE AUGUSTE MIETHE.</b> Born in Potsdam. 1823-1885. She passed
her early life in her native city, having all the advantages of a solid and brilliant education.
She early exhibited a love of drawing and devoted herself to the study of anatomical plates.
She soon designed original subjects and introduced persons of her own imagination, which early
marked her as powerful in her fancy and original in her manner of rendering her ideas.

A picture of "Raphael and the Fornarina," which she executed at the age of fifteen, was so
satisfactory as to determine her fate, and she was allowed to study art.

When about eighteen years old she became the pupil of Charles Joseph Begas, a very celebrated
artist of Berlin. Under his supervision she painted her first picture, called the "Day of the
Dupes," which, though full of faults, had also virtues enough to secure much attention in the
exhibition. It was first hung in a disadvantageous position, but the crowd discovered its merits
and would have it noticed. She received a complimentary letter from the Academy of Berlin,
and the venerable artist Cornelius made her a visit of congratulation.

About 1844 she married and removed to Brussels. Here she came into an entirely new atmosphere
and her manner of painting was changed. She sought to free herself from all outer influence
and to express her own feeling. She studied color especially, and became an imitator of Rubens.
She gained in Brussels all the medals of the Belgian expositions, and there began two historical
pictures, "Peter the Great and Catherine" and "Maria Theresa and Frederick the Great." These
were not finished until after her removal to Paris in 1853. They were bought by Prince Demidoff
for the Russian Government.

She obtained her first triumph in Paris, at the Salon of 1853, by a portrait of Rachel. She
represented the famous actress dressed entirely in white, with the worn expression which her
professional exertions and the fatal malady from which she was already suffering had given
to her remarkable face. The critics had no words for this portrait which were not words of
praise, and two years later, in 1855, Madame O'Connell reached the height of her talent. "A
Faunesse," as it was called, in the exposition of that year, was a remarkable work, and thus
described by Barty:

"A strong and beautiful young woman was seated near a spring, where beneath the shade of the
chestnut trees the water lilies spread themselves out upon the stream which flowed forth. She
was nude and her flesh palpitated beneath the caresses of the sun. With feminine caprice she
wore a bracelet of pearls of the style of the gold workers of the Renaissance. Her black hair
had lights of golden brown upon it, and she opened her great brown eyes with an expression
of indifference. A half smile played upon her rosy lips and lessened the oval of the face like
that of the 'Dancing Faun.' The whole effect of the lines of the figure was bold and gave an
appearance of youth, the extremities were studiously finished, the skin was fine, and the whole
tournure elegant. It was a Faunesse of Fontainebleau of the time of the Valois."

Mme. O'Connell then executed several fine portraits--two of Rachel, one of M. O'Connell, others
of Charles Edward and Théophile Gautier, which were likened to works of Vandyck, and a portrait
in crayon of herself which was a chef-d'oeuvre. She excelled in rendering passionate natures;
she found in her palette the secret of that pallor which spreads itself over the faces of those
devoted to study--the fatigues of days and nights without sleep; she knew how to kindle the
feverish light in the eyes of poets and of the women of society. She worked with great freedom,
used a thick pâte in which she brushed freely and left the ridges thus made in the colors;
then, later, she put over a glaze, and all was done. Her etchings were also executed with great
freedom, and many parts, especially the hair, were remarkably fine. She finished numerous etchings,
among which a "St. Magdalen in the Desert" and a "Charity Surrounded by Children" are worthy
of particular notice.

After Madame O'Connell removed to Paris she opened a large atelier and received many pupils.
It was a most attractive place, with gorgeous pieces of antique furniture, loaded with models
of sculpture, books, albums, engravings, and so on, while draperies, tapestries, armor, and
ornaments in copper and brass all lent their colors and effects to enhance the attractions
of the place. Many persons of rank and genius were among the friends of the artist and she
was much in society.

In spite of all her talent and all her success the end of Madame O'Connell's life was sad beyond
expression. Her health suffered, her reason tottered and faded out, yet life remained and she
was for years in an asylum for the insane. Everything that had surrounded her in her Paris
home was sold at auction. No time was given and no attempt was made to bring her friends together.
No one who had known or loved her was there to shed a tear or to bear away a memento of her
happy past. All the beautiful things of which we have spoken were sacrificed and scattered
as unconscionably as if she had never loved or her friends enjoyed them.

In the busy world of Paris no one remembered the brilliant woman who had flashed upon them,
gained her place among them, and then disappeared. They recalled neither her genius nor her
womanly qualities which they had admired, appreciated, and so soon forgotten!

<b>OOSTERWYCK, MARIA VAN.</b> The seventeenth century is remarkable for the perfection attained
in still-life and flower painting. The most famous masters in this art were William van Aelst
of Delft, the brothers De Heem of Utrecht, William Kalf and the Van Huysums of Amsterdam. The
last of this name, however, Jan van Huysum, belongs to the next century.

Maria van Oosterwyck and Rachel Ruysch disputed honors with the above named and are still famous
for their talents.

The former was a daughter of a preacher of the reformed religion. She was born at Nootdorp,
near Delft, in 1630. She was the pupil of Jan David de Heem, and her pictures were remarkable
for accuracy in drawing, fine coloring, and an admirable finish.

Louis XIV. of France, William III. of England, the Emperor Leopold of Germany, and Augustus
I. of Poland gave her commissions for pictures. Large prices were paid her in a most deferential
manner, as if the tributes of friendship rather than the reward of labor, and to these generous
sums were added gifts of jewels and other precious objects.

Of Maria van Oosterwyck Kugler writes: "In my opinion she does not occupy that place in the
history of the art of this period that she deserves, which may be partly owing to the rarity
of her pictures, especially in public galleries. For although her flower pieces are weak in
arrangement and often gaudy in the combination of color, she yet represents her flowers with
the utmost truth of drawing, and with a depth, brilliancy, and juiciness of local coloring
unattained by any other flower painter"

A picture in the Vienna Gallery of a sunflower with tulips and poppies, in glowing color, is
probably her best work in a public collection. Her pictures are also in the galleries of Dresden,
Florence, Carlsruhe, Copenhagen, the Schwerin Gallery, and the Metropolitan Museum of New York.

There is a romantic story told of Maria van Oosterwyck, as follows. William van Aelst, the
painter of exquisite pictures of still-life, fruits, glass, and objects in gold and silver,
was a suitor for her hand. She did not love him, but wishing not to be too abrupt in her refusal,
she required, as a condition of his acceptance, that he should work ten hours a day during
a year. This he readily promised to do. His studio being opposite that of Maria, she watched
narrowly for the days when he did not work and marked them down on her window-sash. At the
close of the year Van Aelst claimed her as his bride, assuming that he had fulfilled her condition;
but she pointed to the record of his delinquencies, and he could but accept her crafty dismissal
of his suit.

<b>OSENGA, GIUSEPPINA.</b> This artist resides in Parma, and has there exhibited landscapes
that are praised for their color and for the manner in which they are painted, as well as for
the attractive subjects she habitually chooses. "A View near Parma," the "Faces of Montmorency,"
and the "Bridge of Attaro" are three of her works which are especially admired.

<b>OSTERTAG, BLANCHE.</b> Member of Society of Western Artists; Arts Club, Chicago; Municipal
Art League. Born in St. Louis. From 1892-1896 pupil of Laurens and Raphael Collin in Paris,
where her works were hung on the line at the New Gallery, Champ de Mars.

A decorative artist who has executed mural decoration in a private house in Chicago, and has
illustrated "Max Müller's Memories" and other publications. For use in schools she made a color
print, "Reading of the Declaration of Independence before the Army."

Her calendars and posters are in demand by collectors at home and in foreign countries. Miss
Ostertag has designed elaborate chimney pieces to be executed in mosaic and glass. Her droll
conceits in "Mary and Her Lamb," the "Ten Little Injuns," and other juvenile tales were complimented
by Boutet de Monvel, who was so much interested in her work that he gave her valuable criticism
and advice without solicitation.

<b>O'TAMA-CHIOVARA.</b> Gold medal at an exhibition of laces in Rome and prizes at all the
exhibitions held in Palermo by the Art Club. Born in Tokio, where she came to the notice of
Vicenzo Ragusa, a Sicilian sculptor in the employ of the Japanese Government at Tokio. He taught
her design, color, and modelling, and finally induced her to go with his sister to Palermo.
Here her merit was soon recognized in a varied collection of water-colors representing flowers
and fruits, which were reproduced with surpassing truth. When the School of Applied Art was
instituted at Palermo in 1887, she was put in charge of the drawing, water-color, and modelling
in the Women's Section.

She knows the flowers of various countries--those of Japan and Sicily wonderfully well, and
her fancy is inexhaustible; her exquisite embroideries reflect this quality. She has many private
pupils, and is as much beloved for her character as she is admired for her talents. When she
renounced Buddhism for Christianity, the Princess of Scalca was her godmother.

<b>PACZKA-WAGNER, CORNELIA.</b> Honorable mention, Berlin, 1890. Born in Göttingen, 1864. She
has been, in the main, her own instructor, living for some years in Rome for the purpose of
study. In 1895 she settled in Berlin, where she has made a specialty of women's and children's
portraits in olgraphy (?) and lithography. Beautiful drawings by her were exhibited at the
International Water-Color Exhibition in Dresden, 1892.

An interesting account of a visit to the studio of the Hungarian painter Paczka and his German
wife tells of a strong series of paintings in progress there, under the general title, "A Woman's
Soul." In freedom and boldness of conception they were said to remind one of Klinger, but in
warmth and depth of feeling to surpass him. Frau Paczka had just finished a very large picture,
representing the first couple after the expulsion from Paradise. The scene is on the waste,
stony slope of a mountain; the sun shines with full force in the background, while upon the
unshadowed rocks of the foreground are the prostrate Adam and his wife--more accusing than
complaining.

In 1899 Frau Paczka exhibited in Berlin, "Vanitas," which excels in richness of fancy and boldness
of representation, while wanting somewhat in detail; the ensemble presents a remarkably fine,
symbolic composition, which sets forth in rich color the dance of mankind before the golden
calf, and the bitter disillusions in the struggle for fame, wealth, and happiness.

<b>PARLAGHY, VILMA, OR THE PRINCESS LWOFF.</b> Great gold medal from the Emperor of Austria,
1890; great gold medal, 1894; small gold medal at Berlin, 1890, adjudged to her portrait of
Windhorst. Born at Hadju-Dorogh in 1863, and studied in Budapest, Munich, Venice, Florence,
and Turin. Her portraits having found great favor at the Court of Berlin, she removed her studio
from Munich to that capital.

One of her instructors was Lenbach, and she is said by some critics to have appropriated his
peculiarities as a colorist and his shortcomings in drawing, without attaining his geniality
and power of divination. In 1891 her portrait of Count von Moltke, begun shortly before his
death and finished afterward, was sent to the International Exposition at Berlin, but was rejected.
The Emperor, however, bought it for his private collection, and at his request it was given
a place of honor at the Exposition, the incident causing much comment. She exhibited a portrait
of the Emperor William at Berlin in 1893, which Rosenberg called careless in drawing and modelling
and inconceivable in its unrefreshing, dirty-gray color.

In January, 1895, she gave an exhibition of one hundred and four of her works, mostly portraits,
including those of the Emperor, Caprivi, von Moltke, and Kossuth, which had previously been
exhibited in Berlin, Munich, and Paris. The proceeds of this exhibition went to the building
fund of the Emperor William Memorial Church.

Of a portrait exhibited in 1896, at Munich, a critic said that while it was not wholly bad,
it was no better than what hundreds of others could do as well, and hundreds of others could
do much better.

<b>PASCH, ULRICKE FRIEDERIKA.</b> Member of the Academy of Fine Arts of Sweden. Born in Stockholm.
1735-1796. A portrait of Gustavus-Adolphus II. by this artist is in the Castle at Stockholm.
She was a sister of Lorenz Pasch.

<b>PASCOLI, LUIGIA.</b> This Venetian painter has exhibited in various Italian cities since
1870, when she sent a "Magdalen" to Parma. "First Love" appeared at Naples in 1877, and "The
Maskers"--pastel--at Venice in 1881. A "Girl with a Cat," a "Roman Girl," and a "Seller of
Eggs"--the latter in Venetian costume--are works of true value. Her copies of Titian's "St.
Mark" and of Gian Bellini's "Supper at Emmaus" have attracted attention and are much esteemed.

<b>PASSE, MAGDALENA VAN DE.</b> Born at Utrecht about 1600; she died at the age of forty. This
engraver was a daughter of Crispus van de Passe, the elder. She practised her art in Germany,
England, Denmark, and the Netherlands, and was important as an artist. Her engraving was exceedingly
careful and skilful. Among her plates are "Three Sibyls," 1617; an "Annunciation," "Cephalus
and Procris," "Latona," and landscapes after the works of Bril, Savery, Willars, etc.

<b>PATTISON, HELEN SEARLE.</b> Born in Burlington, Vermont. Daughter of Henry Searle, a talented
architect who moved to Rochester, New York, where his daughter spent much of her girlhood.
She held the position of art teacher in a school in Batavia, New York, while still a girl herself.

About 1860 she became the pupil of Herr Johan Wilhelm Preyer, the well-known painter of still-life,
fruit, and flowers. Preyer was a dwarf and an excellent man, but as a rule took no pupils.
He was much interested in Miss Searle, and made an exception in her case. She soon acquired
the technique of her master and painted much as he did, but with less minute detail, finer
color, and far more sentiment.

In 1876 Miss Searle married the artist, James William Pattison, now on the staff of the Art
Institute, Chicago. After their marriage Mr. and Mrs. Pattison resided at Écouen, near Paris.
Returning to America in 1882, they spent some time in Chicago and New York City, removing to
Jacksonville, Illinois, in 1884. Here Mr. Pattison was at the head of the School of Fine Arts.

Mrs. Pattison lived but a few months in Jacksonville, dying in November, 1884.

Mrs. Pattison's artistic reputation was well established and her works were exhibited at the
Paris Salon and in all the German cities of importance. They were frequently seen in England
and at the National Academy of Design in New York. Her subjects were still-life, fruit, and
flowers, and her works are widely distributed.

<b>PAZZI, CATERINA DE</b>, whose conventual name was Maria Maddalena. Was born in Florence
in 1566. It would be interesting to know the relation that this gentle lady bore to those Pazzi
who had earned a fame so unlike hers fourscore years before she saw the light.

Caterina de Pazzi, when a mere girl, entered a convent which stood on the site of the church
known by her name in the Via Pinti. The cell of Santa Maddalena--now a chapel--may still be
visited. She was canonized by Pope Alexander VIII. in 1670, sixty-two years after her death.

The Florentines have many lovely legends associated with her memory. One of these relates that
she painted pictures of sacred subjects when asleep. Be this as it may, we know that her pictures
were esteemed in the days when the best artists lived and worked beside her. Examples of her
art may still be seen in churches in Rome and Parma, as well as in the church of her native
city which bears her name.

<b>PEALE, ANNA C.</b> Made her mark as a miniature painter and for some years was the only
professional woman artist in Philadelphia. Her portrait of General Jackson made in 1819 was
well considered. She also made portraits of President Monroe, Henry Clay, R. M. Johnson, John
Randolph of Roanoke, and other prominent men. Miss Peale married in 1829 the Rev. William Staughton,
a Baptist clergyman, the president of the theological college at Georgetown, Kentucky. He lived
but three months after their marriage, and she returned to Philadelphia and again pursued her
artistic labors. She married a second husband, General William Duncan, and from this time gave
up professional painting.

<b>PEALE, SARA M.</b> 1860-1885. Daughter of James Peale, under whose teaching she made her
first studies. She was also a pupil of her uncle, the founder of Peale's Museum, Philadelphia.
Miss Peale painted portraits and spent some years in Baltimore and Washington. Among her portraits
are those of Lafayette, Thomas Benton, Henry A. Wise, Caleb Cushing, and other distinguished
men. From 1847 she resided in St. Louis thirty years and then went to Philadelphia. Her later
works were still-life subjects, especially fruits.

<b>PELICHY, GEERTRUIDA.</b> Honorary member of the Academy of Vienna. Born in Utrecht, 1744;
died in Brügge, 1825. Pupil of P. de Cock and Suvée. In 1753, she went to Brügge with her father,
and later to Paris and Vienna. She painted portraits of the Emperor Joseph II. and Maria Theresa,
some good landscapes, and animal studies. Two of her pictures are in the Museum at Brügge.

<b>PELLEGRINO, ITALA.</b> Born at Milan, 1865. Pupil of Battaglia. Her pictures are of genre
and marine subjects. At the great exhibition at Turin, 1884, she exhibited a marine view which
was bought by Prince Amadeo. Another marine view exhibited at Milan was acquired by the Società
Promotrice. In 1888 she sent to the exhibition at Naples, where she resides, a view of Portici,
which was added to the Royal Gallery. The excellence of her work is in the strength and certainty
of touch and the sincerity and originality of composition. She has painted a "Marine View of
Naples," "In the Gulf," "Fair Weather," and "Evening at Sea"; also a genre picture, "Frusta
là," which was sold while in an exhibition in Rome.

<b>PENICKE, CLARA.</b> Born at Berlin in 1818, where she died in 1899. She studied first with
Remy and later with Carl Begas and Edward Magnus. Her work was largely confined to portrait
and historical painting. In the Gallery at Schwerin is her "Elector Frederick of Saxony Refusing
to Accept the Interim." Another good example of her historical work is the "Reconciliation
of Charlemagne with Thassilo of Bavaria." A well-known and strongly modelled portrait of Minister
Von Stoach and several Luther portraits, "Luther's Family Devotion" and "Luther Finds the First
Latin Bible," show her facility in this branch of art. She also painted a "Christ on the Cross."

<b>PERELLI, LIDA.</b> A landscape painter living in Milan, who has become well known by pictures
that have been seen at the exhibitions in several Italian cities, especially through some Roman
studies that appeared at Florence and Turin in 1884. "A View of Lecco, Lake Como," "Casolare,"
and "A Lombard Plain" are among her best works.

<b>PERMAN, LOUISE E.</b> Born at Birkenshaw, Renfrewshire. Studied in Glasgow. This artist
paints roses, and roses only, in oils. In this art she has been very successful. She has exhibited
at the Royal Academy and the New Gallery, London; at the Royal Scottish Academy, Glasgow; at
art exhibits in Munich, Dresden, Berlin, Prague, Hanover, etc., and wherever her works have
been seen they have been sold. In May, 1903, a collection of twenty-five rose pictures were
exhibited by a prominent dealer, and but few were left in his hands.

A critic in the Studio of April, 1903, writing of the exhibition at the Ladies' Artists' Club,
Glasgow, says: "Miss Louise Perman's rose pictures were as refined and charming as ever. This
last-named lady certainly has a remarkable power of rendering the beauties of the queen of
flowers, whether she chooses to paint the sumptuous yellow of the 'Maréchal Niel,' the blush
of the 'Katherine Mermet,' or the crimson glory of the 'Queen of Autumn.' She seems not only
to give the richness of color and fulness of contour of the flowers, but to capture for the
delight of the beholder the very spiritual essence of them." To the London Academy, 1903, she
sent a picture called "York and Lancaster."

<b>PERRIER, MARIE.</b> Mention honorable at Salon des Artistes Français, 1899; Prix Marie Bashkirtseff,
1899; honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1900; numerous medals from foreign and provincial
exhibitions; medals in gold and silver at Rouen, Nîmes, Rennes, etc.; bronze medals at Amiens
and Angers. Member of the Société des Artistes Français; perpetual member of the Baron Taylor
Association, section of the Arts of Painting, etc. Born at Paris. Pupil of Benjamin Constant,
Jules Lefebvre, and J. P. Laurens.

Mlle. Perrier's picture of "Jeanne d'Arc" is in a provincial museum; several pictures by her
belonging to the city of Paris are scenes connected with the schools of the city--"Breakfast
at the Communal School"; "After School at Montmartre" were at the Salon des Artistes Français,
1903; others are "Manual Labor at the Maternal School," "Flowers," and "Recreation of the Children
at the Maternal School." Of the last Gabriel Moury says, "It is one of the really good pictures
in the Salon."

This artist decorated a villa near Nîmes with four large panels representing the "Seasons,"
twelve small panels, the "Hours," and pictures of the labors of the fields, such as the gathering
of grapes and picking of olives.

She has painted numerous portraits of children and a series of pictures illustrating the "Life
of the Children of Paris." They are "Children at School and after School," "Children on the
Promenade and Their Games," and "Children at Home."

<b>PERRY, CLARA GREENLEAF.</b> Member of the Copley Society. Born at Long Branch, New Jersey.
Pupil of Boston Art Museum School, under Mr. Benson and Mr. Tarbell; in Paris pupil of M. Raphael
Collin and Robert Henri.

Miss Perry has exhibited her portrait of Mrs. U. in the Salon of the Société Nationale des
Beaux-Arts and in Philadelphia. She paints landscapes and portraits.

<b>PERRY, LILLA CABOT.</b> Pupil in Boston of Dennis Bunker and Alfred Collins; in Paris of
Alfred Stevens, Robert Fleury, Bouguereau, and Courtois; in Munich of Fritz von Uhde.

Mrs. Perry is essentially a portrait painter, but has painted landscapes, especially in Japan,
where she spent some years. The scenery of Japan and its wonderfully beautiful Fuziyama would
almost compel an artist to paint landscapes.

Mrs. Perry says that her pictures of French and Japanese types are, in fact, portraits as truly
as are those she is asked to paint.

Her picture of a "Japanese Lacemaker" belongs to Mr. Quincy A. Shaw. It has been much admired
in the exhibitions in which it has been seen.

In the Water-Color Exhibition of the Boston Art Club, 1903, Mrs. Perry's portrait of Miss S.
attracted much attention. The delicate flesh tones, the excellent modelling of the features,
and what may be called the whole atmosphere of the picture combine in producing an effective
and pleasing example of portraiture.

<b>PERUGINI, CATERINA E.</b> An Italian painter living in London, where she frequently exhibits
her excellent pictures. Among them are "A Siesta," "Dolce far Niente," "Multiplication," and
portraits of Guy Cohn, son of Sir Guy Campbell, Bart., and of Peggy and Kitty Hammond, two
charming children.

At the Academy, 1903, she exhibited "Faith" and "Silken Tresses."

<b>PERUGINI, MRS. KATE DICKENS.</b> Younger daughter of Charles Dickens and wife of Charles
Edward Perugini. This artist has exhibited at the Royal Academy and at other exhibitions since
1877. Her pictures are of genre subjects, such as the "Dolls' Dressmaker," "Little-Red-Cap,"
"Old Curiosity Shop," etc. At the Academy, 1903, she exhibited "Some Spring Flowers."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>PETERS, ANNA.</b> Medals at Vienna, 1873; London, 1874; Munich, 1876; Amsterdam and Antwerp,
1877. Born at Mannheim, 1843. Pupil of her father, Pieter Francis Peters, in Stuttgart. Miss
Peters travelled over Europe and was commissioned to decorate apartments in the royal castles
at Stuttgart and Friedrichshafen.

Her picture of "Roses and Grapes" is in the National Gallery, London; and one of "Autumn Flowers"
in the Museum at Stuttgart.

<b>PILLINI, MARGHERITA.</b> An Italian painter living in Paris. Her most successful exhibitions
have been those at Rome, in 1883, when her "Silk-cocoon Carder of Quimper" and "Charity" appeared;
and at Turin, in 1884, when "The Three Ages," "The Poor Blind Man," and a portrait of the Prince
of Naples were shown, all exquisite in sentiment and excellent in execution. The "Silk-cocoon
Carder of Quimper" has been thus noticed by De Rengis: "If I am not mistaken, Signora Margherita
Pillini has also taken this road, full of modernity, but not free from great danger. Her 'Silk-cocoon
Carder' is touched with great disdain for every suggestion of the old school. Rare worth--if
worth it is--that a young woman should be carried by natural inclination into such care for
detail."

<b>PINTO-SEZZI, IDA.</b> Silver medal at the Beatrice Exposition, Florence, 1890. Since 1882
pictures by this artist have been seen in various Italian exhibitions. In the Beatrice of that
year she exhibited "Cocciara," and in 1887 "A Friar Cook." Her "Fortune-Teller" attracted general
attention at Venice in 1887.

This artist has also given some time to the decoration of terra-cotta in oil colors. An amphora
decorated with landscape and figures was exhibited at the Promotrice in Florence in 1889 (?)
and much admired.

<b>POETTING, COUNTESS ADRIENNE.</b> Born in Chrudim, Bohemia, 1856. The effect of her thorough
training under Blass, Straschiripka, and Frittjof Smith is seen in her portraits of the Deputy-Burgomaster
Franz Khume, which is in the Rathhaus, Vienna, as well as in those of the Princess Freda von
Oldenburg and the writer, Bertha von Suttner. Her excellence is also apparent in her genre
subjects, "In the Land of Dreams" being an excellent example of these.

<b>POPERT, CHARLOTTE.</b> Silver medal at the Beatrice, Florence, 1890. Born in Hamburg, 1848.
Pupil in Weimar of the elder Preller and Carl Gherts; of P. Joris in Rome, and Bonnat in Paris.
After extensive travels in the Orient, England, the Netherlands, and Spain, she established
herself in Rome and painted chiefly in water-colors. Her "Praying Women of Bethlehem" is an
excellent example of her art.

In 1883 she exhibited at Rome, "In the Temple at Bethlehem"; at Turin in 1884, "In the Seventeenth
Century" and "The Nun"; at Venice in 1887, an exquisite portrait in water-colors.

<b>POPPE-LÜDERITZ, ELIZABETH.</b> Honorable mention, Berlin, 1891. For the second time only
the Senate of the Berlin Academy conferred this distinction upon a woman. The artist exhibited
two portraits, "painted with Holbein-like delicacy and truthfulness"--if we may agree with
the critics.

This artist was born in Berlin in 1858, and was a pupil of Gussow. Her best pictures are portraits,
but her "Sappho" and "Euphrosine" are excellent works.

<b>POPP, BABETTE.</b> Born in Regensburg, 1800; died about 1840. Made her studies in Munich.
In the Cathedral of Regensburg is her "Adoration of the Kings."

<b>POWELL, CAROLINE A.</b> Bronze medal at Chicago, 1893; silver medal at Buffalo, 1901. Member
of the Society of American Wood-Engravers and of the Boston Society of Arts and Crafts. Born
in Dublin, Ireland. Pupil of W. J. Linton and Timothy Cole.

Miss Powell was an illustrator of the Century Magazine from 1880 to 1895. The engraving after
"The Resurrection" by John La Farge, in the Church of St. Thomas, New York, is the work of
this artist. She also illustrated "Engravings on Wood," by William M. Laffan, in which book
her work is commended.

Miss Powell is now employed by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co., and writes me: "So far as I
know, I am, at present, the only woman in America engaged in the practise of engraving as a
fine art."

<b>PRESTEL, MARIA CATHARINA</B>; FAMILY NAME <B>HOLL.</b> Born in Nuremburg, 1747. Her husband,
Johan Prestel, was her teacher, and she was of great assistance in the work which he produced
at Frankfort-on-the-Main, in 1783. In 1786, however, she separated from him and went to London,
where she devoted herself to aquatints. She executed more than seventy plates, some of them
of great size.

<b>PRESTEL, URSULA MAGDALENA.</b> Born in Nuremburg. 1777-1845. Daughter of the preceding artist.
She worked in Frankfort and London, travelled in France and Switzerland, and died in Brussels.
Her moonlight scenes, some of her portraits, and her picture of the "Falls of the Rhine near
Laufen," are admirable.

<b>PREUSCHEN, HERMINE VON SCHMIDT</b>; married name, Telman. Born at Darmstadt, 1857. Pupil
of Ferdinand Keller in Karlsruhe. Travelled in Spain, France, Italy, the Netherlands, and Denmark.
She remained some time in Munich, Berlin, and Rome, establishing her studio in these cities
and painting a variety of subjects. Her flower pictures are her best works. Her "Mors Imperator"
created a sensation by reason of its striking qualities rather than by intrinsic artistic merit.
In the gallery at Metz is her picture of "Irene von Spilimberg on the Funeral Gondola."

In 1883 she exhibited in Rome, "Answered," a study of thistles; "In Autumn," a variety of fruits;
and "Questions," a charming study of carnations. At Berlin, in 1890, "Meadow Saffron and Cineraria"
was praised for its glowing color and artistic arrangement. A Viennese critic, the same year,
lamented that an artist of so much talent should paint lifeless objects only. In Berlin, in
1894, she held an exhibition, in which her landscapes and flower pieces were better than her
still-life pictures. Frau Preuschen is also a musician and poet.

The painting of flower pieces is a delightful art for man or woman, but so many such pictures
which are by amateurs are seen in exhibitions--too good to be refused but not of a satisfactory
quality--that one can scarcely sympathize with the critic who would have Mme. Preuschen paint
other subjects than these charming blossoms, so exquisite in form and color, into which she
paints so much delightful sentiment.

<b>PUEHN, SOPHIE.</b> Born at Nuremberg, 1864. This artist studied in Paris and Munich and
resides in the latter city. At the International Exhibition, Vienna, 1894, her portrait of
a "Lady Drinking Tea" was praised by the critics without exception, and, in fact, her portraits
are always well considered. That she is also skilful in etching was shown in her "Forsaken,"
exhibited in 1896.

<b>PUTNAM, SARAH GOOLD.</b> Member of the Copley Society. Born in Boston. Pupil in Boston and
New York of J. B. Johnston, F. Duveneck, Abbott Thayer, and William Chase; in Scheveningen,
of Bart. J. Blommers; and in Munich, of Wilhelm Dürr.

Miss Putnam's portrait of Hon. John Lowell is in the District Court Room in Post-Office Building,
Boston; that of William G. Russell, in the Law Library in the Court House, Pemberton Square,
same city; that of General Charles G. Loring, for many years Director of Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, belongs to his family; among her other portraits are those of Dr. Henry P. Bowditch,
Francis Boott, George Partridge Bradford, Edward Silsbee, Mrs. Asa Gray, and Lorin Deland.
In addition to the above she has painted more than one hundred portraits of men, women, and
children, which belong to the families of the subjects.

<b>PUYROCHE, MME. ELISE.</b> Born in Dresden, 1828. Resided in Lyons, France, where she was
a pupil of the fine colorist, Simon St. Jean. Mme. Puyroche excelled her master in the arrangement
of flowers in her pictures and in the correctness of her drawing, while she acquired his harmonious
color. Her picture called the "Tom Wreath," painted in 1850, is in the Dresden Gallery.

<b>QUESTIER, CATHERINE.</b> Born in Amsterdam. In 1655 she published two comedies which were
illustrated by engravings of her own design and execution. She achieved a good reputation for
painting, copper engraving, and modelling in wax, as well as for her writings.

<b>RAAB, DORIS.</b> Third-class medal, Nuremberg; also second-class medal, 1892. Born in Nuremberg,
1851. Pupil of her father, Johann Leonhard Raab, in etching and engraving. She has engraved
many works by Rubens, Van Dyck, and Cuyp; among her plates after works of more recent artists
are Piloty's "Death Warrant of Mary Stuart," Lindenschmidt's "In Thought," and Laufberger's
"Hunting Fanfare." This artist resides in Munich.

<b>RADOVSKA, BARONESS ANNETTA</b>, of Milan. Her interesting genre pictures are seen in most
of the Italian exhibitions. "Old Wine, Young Wife," was at Milan, 1881; in same city, 1883,
"An Aggression," "The Visit," "The Betrothed." She also sent to Rome, in 1883, two pictures,
one of which, "The Harem," was especially noteworthy. In 1884, at Turin, she exhibited "Tea"
and the "Four Ages"; these, were excellent in tone and technique and attractive in subject.
At Milan, 1886, her "Will He Arrive?" was heartily commended in the art journals.

<b>RAE, HENRIETTA.</b> See Normand, Mrs. Ernest

<b>RAGUSA, ELEANORA.</b> See O'Tama.

<b>RAPIN, AIMÉE.</b> At the Swiss National Exposition, 1896, a large picture of a "Genevese
Watchmaker" by this artist was purchased; By the Government and is in the Museum at Neuchâtel.
In 1903 the city of Geneva commissioned her to paint a portrait of Philippe Plantamour, which
is in the Museum Mon-Repos, at Geneva. Member of the Société des Beaux-Arts of Lausanne, Société
des Femmes peintres et sculpteurs de la Suisse romande, Société de l'exposition permanente
des Beaux-Arts, Geneva. Born at Payerne, Canton de Vaud. Studied at Geneva under M. Hebert
and Barthelmy Menn, in painting; Hugues Bovy, modelling.

Mlle. Rapin writes me: "I am, above all, a portrait painter, and my portraits are in private
hands." She names among others of her sitters, Ernest Naville, the philosopher; Raoul Pictet,
chemist; Jules Salmson, sculptor, etc. She mentions that she painted a portrait of the present
Princess of Wales at the time of her marriage, but as it was painted from photographs the artist
has no opinion about its truth to life. Mlle. Rapin has executed many portraits of men, women,
and children in Paris, London, and Germany, as well as in Switzerland. She refers me to the
following account of herself and her art. In the Studio of April, 1903, R. M. writes: "The
subject of these notes is a striking example of the compensations of Nature for her apparent
cruelty; also of what the genuine artist is capable of achieving notwithstanding the most singular
disadvantages. Some years ago in the little town of Payerne, Canton Vaud, a child was born
without arms. One day the mother, while standing near a rose-bush with her infant in her arms,
was astonished to observe one of its tiny toes clasp the stem of the rose. Little did she guess
at the time that these prehensile toes were destined one day to serve an artist, in the execution
of her work, with the same marvellous facility as hands. As the child grew up the greatest
care was bestowed upon her education. She early manifested unmistakable artistic promise, and
at the age of sixteen was sent to the École des Beaux Arts, Geneva.... For reasons already
mentioned Mlle. Rapin holds a unique position amongst that valiant and distinguished group
of Swiss lady artists to whose work we hope to have the opportunity of referring.... She is
a fine example of that singleness of devotion which characterizes the born artist. Her art
is the all-absorbing interest of her life. It is not without its limitations, but within these
limitations the artist has known how to be true to herself. Drawing her inspiration direct
from nature, she has held on her independent way, steadily faithful to the gift she possesses
of evoking a character in a portrait or of making us feel how the common task, when representative
of genuine human effort and touched with the poetry of national tradition, of religion, and
of nature, becomes a subject of noble artistic treatment. She has kept unimpaired that merveilleux
frisson de sensibilité which is one of the most precious gifts of the artistic temperament,
and which is quick to respond to the ideal in the real. There are some artists who, though
possessed of extraordinary mastery over the materials of their art, bring to their work a spirit
which beggars and belittles both art and life; there are others who seem to work with an ever-present
sense of the noble purpose of their vocation and the pathos and dignity of existence. Mlle.
Rapin belongs to the second category. Her 'L'Horloger' is an example of this. A Genevese watchmaker
is bending to his work at a bench covered with tools. Through the window of the workshop one
perceives in the blue distance Mont Saléve, and nearer the time-honored towers of the Cathedral
of St. Pierre. Here is a composition dealing with simple life--a composition which, from the
point of execution, color, and harmony of purpose, leaves little or nothing to be desired.
But this is not all. It is, so to speak, an artistic résumé of the life and history of the
old city, and that strongly portrayed national type gathers dignity from his alliance with
the generations who helped to make one of the main interests of the city, and from his relationship
to that eventful past suggested by the Cathedral and the Mountain.

"Mlle. Rapin is unmistakably one of the best Swiss portraitists, working for the most part
in pastels, her medium by predilection; she has at the same time modelled portraits in bas-relief.
We are not only impressed by the intensely living quality of her work as a portraitist, but
by the extraordinary power with which she has seized and expressed the individual character
and history of each of her subjects."

Mlle. Rapin has exhibited her works with success in Paris, Munich, and Berlin. The few specimens
of her bas-reliefs which I have seen prove that did she prefer the art of sculpture before
that of painting, she would be as successful with her modelling tools as she has been with
her brush.

<b>RAPPARD, CLARA VON.</b> Second-class medal, London. Born at Wabern, near Berne, 1857. After
studying with Skutelzky and Dreber, she worked under Gussow in Berlin. She spent some time
in travel, especially in Germany and Italy, and then, choosing Interlaken as her home, turned
her attention to the illustration of books, as well as to portrait and genre painting. In the
Museum at Freiburg is her "Point-lace-maker." A series of sixteen "Phantasies" by this artist
has been published in Munich.

<b>RATH, HENRIETTE.</b> Honorary member of the Société des Arts, 1801. Born in 1772, she died
in 1856 at Genf, where, with her sister, she founded the Musée Rath. She studied under Isabey,
and was well and favorably known as a portrait and enamel painter.

<b>REAM, VINNIE.</b> See Hoxie.

<b>REDMOND, FRIEDA VOELTER.</b> Medal at the Columbian Exhibition, Chicago. Member of the Woman's
Art Club. Born in Thun, Switzerland. Studies made in Switzerland and in Paris. A painter of
flowers and still-life.

"Mrs. Redmond is a Swiss woman, now residing in New York. She has exhibited her works in the
Paris Salon, in the National Academy of Design, at the Society of American Artists' exhibitions,
etc., and was awarded a medal at the World's Fair in Chicago. Her work is not only skilful
and accurate in description and characterization; it is done with breadth and freedom, and
given a quality of fine decorative distinction. Her subjects are roses, cyclamen, chrysanthemums,
nasturtiums, double larkspurs, cinneraria, etc., and she makes each panel a distinct study
in design, with a background and accessories of appropriate character. For example, the three
or four large panels of roses painted at Mentone have a glimpse of the Mediterranean for background,
and a suggestion of trellis-work for the support of the vine or bush; and in another rose panel
we have a tipped-over Gibraltar basket with its luscious contents strewed about in artful confusion.
The double larkspurs make very charming panels for decorative purposes. They are painted with
delightful fulness of color and engaging looseness and crispness of touch."--Boston Transcript.

<b>REGIS, EMMA.</b> This Roman painter has given special attention to figures, and has executed
a number of portraits, one of the best of which is that of the Marchioness Durazzo Pallavicini.
She has exhibited some delightful work at Turin and at Rome, such as "The Lute-Player," "All
is not Gold that Glitters," "Humanity," and "In illo Tempore?"

[No reply to circular.]

<b>REINHARDT, SOPHIE.</b> Born at Kirchberg, 1775; died at Karlsruhe, 1843. Pupil of Becker.
She travelled in Austro-Hungary and Italy. In the Kunsthalle at Karlsruhe is her picture of
"St. Elizabeth and the Child John." Among her best works are "The Death of St. Catherine of
Alexandria," "The Death of Tasso," and twelve illustrations for a volume of Hebel's poems.

<b>REMY, MARIE.</b> Born in Berlin, 1829. Daughter of Professor August Remy of the Berlin Academy.
Pupil of her father, Hermine Stilke, and Theude Grönland. She travelled extensively in several
European countries, making special studies in flowers and still-life, from which many of her
water-colors were painted; twenty of these are in the Berlin National Gallery.

<b>REUTER, ELIZABETH.</b> Born in Lubeck, 1853. Pupil of Zimmermann in Munich, A. Schliecker
in Hamburg, and of H. Eschke in Berlin. She also went to Düsseldorf to work in the Gallery
there. Later she travelled in Scandinavia. Her best pictures are landscapes. Among them is
a charming series of six water-colors of views in the park of Friedrichsruhe.

<b>REVEST, CORNELIA LOUISA.</b> Second-class medals in 1819 and 1831 in Paris. Born in Amsterdam,
1795; died in Paris, 1856. Pupil of Sérangély and Vafflard in Paris. In 1814 she painted a
"Magdalen at the Feet of Christ" for a church in Marseilles. She also painted many good portraits
and a picture called "The Young Mother Playing the Mandolin."

<b>RICHARD, MME. HORTENSE.</b> Honorable mention, Exposition of 1889; third-class medal, 1892;
silver medals at Antwerp and Barcelona, and gold medal in London. Born at Paris, 1860. Pupil
of James Bertrand, Jules Lefebvre, and Bouguereau. Has exhibited regularly since 1875. Her
picture of "Cinderella" is in the Museum of Poitiers; "At Church in Poitou" is in the Luxembourg.
She has painted many portraits.

<b>RICHARDS, ANNA MARY.</b> Norman Dodge prize, National Academy, New York, 1890. Member of
the '91 Art Club, London. Born at Germantown, Pennsylvania, 1870. Pupil of Dennis Bunker in
Boston, H. Siddons Mowbray and La Farge in New York, Benjamin Constant and J. P. Laurens in
Paris, and always of her father, W. T. Richards.

Miss Richards' work is varied. She is fond of color when suited to her subject; she also works
much in black and white. When representing nature she is straightforward in her rendering of
its aspects and moods, but she also loves the "symbolic expression of emotion" and the so-called
"allegorical subjects." The artist writes: "I simply work in the way that at the moment it
seems to me fitting to work to express the thing I have in mind. Where the object of the picture
is one sort of quality, I use the method that seems to me to emphasize that quality."

When but fourteen years old this artist exhibited at the National Academy, New York, a picture
of waves, "The Wild Horses of the Sea," which was immediately sold and a duplicate ordered.
In England Miss Richards has exhibited at the Academy, and her pictures have been selected
for exhibitions in provincial galleries. Miss Richards is earnestly devoted to her art, and
has in mind an end toward which she diligently strives--not to become a painter distinguished
for clever mannerism, but "to attain a definite end; one which is difficult to reach and requires
widely applied effort."

Judging from what she has already done at her age, one may predict her success in her chosen
method. In February, 1903, Miss Richards and her father exhibited their works in the Noe Galleries.
I quote a few press opinions.

"Miss Richards paints the sea well; she infuses interest into her figures; she has a love of
allegory; her studies in Holland and Norway are interesting. Her 'Whitby,' lighted by sunset,
with figures massed in the streets in dark relief against it, is beautiful. Her 'Friends,'
showing two women watching the twilight fading from the summits of a mountain range, the cedared
slopes and river valley below meantime gathering blueness and shadow, is of such strength and
sweetness of fancy that it affects one like a strain of music."

"Miss Richards becomes symbolic or realistic by turn. Some of her figures are creatures of
the imagination, winged and iridescent, like the 'Spirit of Hope.' Again, she paints good,
honest Dutchmen, loafing about the docks. Sometimes she has recourse to poetry and quotes Emerson
for a title.... If technically she is not always convincing, it is apparent that the artist
is doing some thinking for herself, and her endeavors are in good taste."

Miss Richards has written "Letter and Spirit," containing fifty-seven "Dramatic Sonnets of
Inward Life."

These she has illustrated by sixty full-page pictures. Of these drawings the eminent artist,
G. F. Watts, says: "In imaginative comprehension they are more than illustrations; they are
interpretations. I find in them an assemblage of great qualities--beauty of line, unity and
abundance in composition, variety and appreciation of natural effects, with absence of manner;
also unusual qualities in drawing, neither academical nor eccentric--all carried out with great
purity and completeness."

<b>RICHARDS, SIGNORA EMMA GAGIOTTI.</b> Rome.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>RIES, THERESE FEODOROWNA.</b> Bronze medal at Ekaterinburg; Karl Ludwig gold medal, Vienna;
gold medal, Paris Exposition, 1900. Officer of the Academy. Born in Moscow. Pupil of the Moscow
Academy and of Professor Hellmer, Vienna, women not being admitted to the Vienna Academy.

A critic in the Studio of July, 1901, who signs his article A. S. L., writes as follows of
this remarkable artist: "Not often does it fall to the lot of a young artist to please both
critic and public at the same time, and, having gained their interest, to continue to fill
their expectations. But it was so with Feodorowna Ries, a young Russian artist who some eight
months ago had never even had a piece of clay in her hand, but who, by dint of 'self,' now
stands amongst the foremost of her profession. It was chance that led Miss Ries to the brush,
and another chance which led her to abandon the brush for the chisel. Five years ago she was
awarded the Carl Ludwig gold medal for her 'Lucifer,' and at the last Paris Exhibition she
gained the gold medal for her 'Unbesiegbaren' (The Unconquerable).

"Miss Ries was born and educated in Moscow, but Vienna is the city of her adoption. She first
studied painting at the Moscow Academy, her work there showing great breadth of character and
power of delineation. At the yearly Exhibition in Moscow, held some five months after she had
entered as a student, she took the gold medal for her 'Portrait of a Russian Peasant.' She
then abandoned painting for sculpture, and one month later gained the highest commendations
for a bust of 'Ariadne.' She then began to study the plastic art from life. Dissatisfied with
herself, although her 'Somnambulist' gained a prize, Miss Ries left Moscow for Paris, but on
her way stayed in Vienna, studying under Professor Hellmer. One year later, at the Vienna Spring
Exhibition, she exhibited her 'Die Hexe.' Here is no traditional witch, though the broomstick
on which she will ride through the air is en evidence. She is a demoniac being, knowing her
own power, and full of devilish instinct. The marble is full of life, and one seems to feel
the warmth of her delicate, powerfully chiselled, though soft and pliable limbs."

"'Die Unbesiegbaren' is a most powerful work, and stood out in the midst of the sculpture at
Paris in 1900 with the prominence imparted by unusual power in the perception of the whole
of a subject and the skill to render the perception so that others realize its full meaning.
There are four figures in this group--men drawing a heavy freight boat along the shore by means
of a towline passed round their bodies, on which they throw their weight in such a way that
their legs, pressed together, lose their outline--except in the case of the leader--and are
as a mass of power. They also pull on the line with their hands. The leader bends over the
rope until he looks down; the man behind him raises his head and looks up with an appealing
expression; the two others behind are exerting all their force in pulling on the rope, but
have twisted the upper part of the body in order to look behind and watch the progress of their
great burden. There is not the least resemblance of one to the other, either in feature or
expression, and to me it would seem that the woman who had conceived and executed this group
might well be content to rest on her laurels.

"But an artistic creator who is really inspired with his art and not with himself is never
satisfied; he presses on and on--sometimes after he has expressed the best of his talent. This
is not yet reached, I believe, by Miss Ries, and we shall see still greater results of her
inspiration."

The Austrian Government commissioned this artist to execute the figure of a saint. One may
well prophesy that there will be nothing conventional in this work. She has already produced
a striking "Saint Barbara." An excellent example of her work is in water-colors and is called
"The Gardener's Children." In 1888 and 1889 she exhibited "The Coronation of Esther" and a
picture of "Oleanders."

<b>ROBERTS, ELIZABETH WENTWORTH.</b>

[No reply to circular.]

<b>ROBINSON, MRS. IMOGENE MORRELL.</b> Medals at the Mechanics' Fair, Boston, and at the Centennial
Exhibition, Philadelphia, 1876. Born in Attleborough, Massachusetts. Pupil of Camphausen in
Düsseldorf, and of Couture in Paris, where she resided several years. Among her important works
are "The First Battle between the Puritans and Indians" and "Washington and His Staff Welcoming
a Provision Train," both at Philadelphia. Mrs. Morrell continued to sign her pictures with
her maiden name, Imogene Robinson.

A critic of the New York Evening Post said of her pictures at Philadelphia: "In the painting
of the horses Mrs. Morrell has shown great knowledge of their action, and their finish is superb.
The work is painted with great strength throughout, and its solidity and forcible treatment
will be admired by all who take an interest in Revolutionary history.... In the drawing of
the figures of Standish and the chief at his side, and the dead and dying savages, there is
a fine display of artistic power, and the grouping of the figures is masterly.... In color
the works are exceedingly brilliant."

<b>ROBUSTI, MARIETTA.</b> Born in Venice. 1560-1590. The parentage of this artist would seem
to promise her talent and insure its culture. She was the daughter of Jacopo Robusti, better
known as "Il Tintoretto," who has been called "the thunder of art," and who avowed his ambition
to equal "the drawing of Michael Angelo and the coloring of Titian."

The portrait of Marietta Robusti proves her to have been justly celebrated for her beauty.
Her face is sweet and gentle in expression. She was sprightly in manner and full of enthusiasm
for anything that interested and attracted her; she had a good talent for music and a charming
voice in singing.

Her father's fondness for her made him desire her constant companionship, and at times he permitted
her to dress as a boy and share with him certain studies that she could only have made in this
disguise. Tintoretto carefully cultivated the talents of his daughter, and some of the portraits
she painted did her honor. That of Marco dei Vescovi first turned public attention to her artistic
merits. The beard was especially praised and it was even said by good judges that she equalled
her father. Indeed, her works were so enthusiastically esteemed by some critics that it is
difficult to make a just estimate of her as an artist, but we are assured of her exquisite
taste in the arrangement of her pictures and of the rare excellence of her coloring.

It soon became the fashion in the aristocratic circles of Venice to sit for portraits to this
fascinating artist. Her likeness of Jacopo Strada, the antiquarian, was considered a worthy
gift for the Emperor Maximilian, and a portrait of Marietta was hung in the chamber of his
Majesty. Maximilian, Philip II. of Spain, and the Archduke Ferdinand, each in turn invited
Marietta to be the painter of his Court.

But the Monarch who asks no consent and heeds no refusal claimed this daughter so beloved.
She died at thirty, and it is recorded that both her father and her husband mourned for her
so long as they lived. Marietta was buried in the Church of Santa Maria dell' Orto, where,
within sight of her tomb, are several of her father's pictures.

Tintoretto painting his daughter's portrait after her death has been the subject of pictures
by artists of various countries, and has lost nothing of its poetic and pathetic interest in
the three centuries and more that have elapsed since that day when the brave old artist painted
the likeness of all that remained to him of his idolized child.

<b>ROCCHI, LINDA.</b> Born in Florence; she resides in Geneva. Two of her flower pieces, in
water-color, were seen at the Fine Arts Exposition, Milan, 1881. In 1883, also in Milan, she
exhibited "A Wedding Garland," "Hawthorne," etc. The constantly increasing brilliancy of her
work was shown in three pictures, flowers in water-colors, seen at the Milan Exposition, 1886.
To Vienna, 1887, she sent four pictures of wild flowers, which were much admired.

<b>ROCCO, LILI ROSALIA.</b> Honorable mention, a bronze medal, and four silver medals were
accorded this artist at the Institute of Fine Arts in Naples, where she studied from 1880 to
1886, and was also a pupil of Solari. Born in Mazzara del Vallo, Sicily, 1863. In 1886 she
exhibited, at Naples, "Cari Fiori!" at Palermo, "Flora"; and in Rome, "A Sicilian Contadina."
In 1888 her picture, "Spring," was exhibited in London. Two of her works were in the Simonetti
Exposition, 1889, one being a marine view from her birthplace. She has painted many portraits,
both in oils and water-colors, and has been appointed a teacher in at least two Government
schools in Naples.

<b>RODIANA, ONORATA.</b> Was a contemporary of the saintly Caterina de Vigri, but was of quite
another order of women. She had one quality which, if not always attractive, at least commands
attention. She was unique, since we know of no other woman who was at the same time a successful
artist and a valiant soldier!

Born in Castelleone, near Cremona, early in the fifteenth century, she was known as a reputable
artist while still young, and was commissioned to decorate the palace of the tyrant, Gabrino
Fondolo, at Cremona. The girlish painter was beautiful in person, frank and engaging in manner,
and most attractive to the gentlemen of the tyrant's court.

One day when alone and absorbed in the execution of a wall-painting, a dissolute young noble
addressed her with insulting freedom. She could not escape, and in the struggle which ensued
she drew a dagger and stabbed her assailant to the heart.

Rushing from the palace, she disguised herself in male attire and fled to the mountains, where
she joined a company of Condottieri. She soon became so good a soldier that she was made an
officer of the band.

Fondolo raged as tyrants are wont to do, both on account of the murder and of the escape. He
vowed the direst vengeance on Onorata if ever she were again in his power. Later, when his
anger had cooled and he had no other artist at command who could worthily complete her decorations,
he published her pardon and summoned her to return to his service.

Onorata completed her work, but her new vocation held her with a potent spell, and henceforth
she led a divided life--never entirely relinquishing her brush, and remaining always a soldier.

When Castelleone was besieged by the Venetians, Onorata led her band thither and was victorious
in the defence of her birthplace. She was fatally wounded in this action and died soon after,
in the midst of the men and women whose homes she had saved. They loved her for her bravery
and deeply mourned the sacrifice of her life.

Few stories from real life are so interesting and romantic as this, yet little notice has been
taken of Onorata's talent or of her prowess, while many less spirited and unusual lives have
been commemorated in prose and poetry.

<b>RODRIGUEZ DE TORO, LUISA.</b> Honorable mention, Madrid, 1856, for a picture of "Queen Isabel
the Catholic Reading with Doña Beatriz de Galindo"; honorable mention, 1860, for her "Boabdil
Returning from Prison."

Born in Madrid; a descendant of the Counts of Los Villares, and wife of the Count of Mirasol.
Pupil of Cárlos Ribera.

<b>RONNER, MME. HENRIETTE.</b> Medals and honorable mentions and elections to academies have
been showered on Mme. Ronner all over Europe. The King of Belgium decorated her with the Cross
of the Order of Leopold. Born in Amsterdam in 1821. The grandfather of this artist was Nicolas
Frederick Knip, a flower painter; her father, Josephus Augustus Knip, a landscape painter,
went blind, and after this misfortune was the teacher of his daughter; her aunt, for whom she
was named, received medals in Paris and Amsterdam for her flower pictures. What could Henriette
Knip do except paint pictures? Hers was a clear case of predestination!

At all events, almost from babyhood she occupied herself with her pencil, and when she was
twelve years old her blind father began to teach her. Even at six years of age it was plainly
seen that she would be a painter of animals. When sixteen she exhibited a "Cat in a Window,"
and from that time was considered a reputable artist.

In 1850 she was married and settled in Brussels. From this time for fifteen years she painted
dogs almost without exception. Her picture called "Friend of Man" was exhibited in 1850. It
is her most famous work and represents an old sand-seller, whose dog, still harnessed to the
little sand-wagon, is dying, while two other dogs are looking on with well-defined sympathy.
It is a most pathetic scene, wonderfully rendered.

About 1870 she devoted herself to pictures of cats, in which specialty of art she has been
most important. In 1876, however, she sent to the Philadelphia Exposition a picture of "Setter
Dogs." "A Cart Drawn by Dogs" is in the Museum at Hanover; "Dog and Pigeon," in the Stettin
Museum; "Coming from Market" is in a private collection in San Francisco.

Mme. Ronner has invented a method of posing cats that is ingenious and of great advantage.
To the uninitiated it would seem that one could only take the portrait of a sleeping cat, so
untiring are the little beasts in their gymnastic performances. But Mme. Ronner, having studied
them with infinite patience, proceeded to arrange a glass box, in which, on a comfortable cushion,
she persuades her cats to assume the positions she desires. This box is enclosed in a wire
cage, and from the top of this she hangs some cat attraction, upon which the creature bounds
and shows those wonderful antics that the artist has so marvellously reproduced in her painting.
Mme. Ronner has two favorite models, "Jem" and "Monmouth." The last name is classical, since
the cat of Mother Michel has been made immortal.

Miss Winslow, in "Concerning Cats," says that "Mme. Ronner excels all other cat painters, living
or dead. She not only infuses a wonderful degree of life into her little figures, but reproduces
the shades of expression, shifting and variable as the sands of the sea, as no other artist
of the brush has done. Asleep or awake, her cats look to the" felinarian "like cats with whom
he or she is familiar. Curiosity, drowsiness, indifference, alertness, love, hate, anxiety,
temper, innocence, cunning, fear, confidence, mischief, earnestness, dignity, helplessness--they
are all in Mme. Ronner's cats' faces, just as we see them in our own cats."

It is but a short time ago that Mme. Ronner was still painting in Brussels, and had not only
cats, but a splendid black dog and a cockatoo to bear her company, while her son is devoted
to her. Her house is large and her grounds pleasant, and her fourscore years did not prevent
her painting several hours a day, and, like some other ladies of whom we know, she was "eighty
years young."

The editor of the Magazine of Art, M. H. Spielman, in an article on the Royal Academy Exhibition,
1903, writes: "What the dog is to Mr. Riviere, to Madame Ronner is the cat. With what unerring
truth she records delightful kittenly nature, the feline nobility of haughty indifference to
human approval or discontent, the subtlety of expression, and drawing of heads and bodies,
the exact quality and tone of the fur, the expressive eloquence of the tail! With all her eighty
years, Madame Ronner's hand, vision, and sensibility have not diminished; only her sobriety
of color seems to have increased." Her pictures of this year were called "The Ladybird" and
"Coaxing." To the Exhibition of the Beaux-Arts in Brussels, 1903, Mme. Ronner sent pictures
of cats, full of life and mischief.

<b>ROOSENBOOM, MARGARITE VOGEL.</b> Second-class medal, Munich, 1892. Born in 1843 and died
in 1896, near The Hague. She spent a large part of her life near Utrecht, devoting herself
mainly to the painting of flowers. One of her works is in the Royal Museum at Amsterdam, and
another in the Museum at Breslau.

<b>ROPE, ELLEN M.</b> This English sculptor executed four large panels for the Women's Building
at the Chicago Exhibition. They represented Faith, Hope, Charity, and Heavenly Wisdom. They
are now in the Ladies' Dwelling, Cherries Street, London. A "Memorial" by her is in Salisbury
Cathedral. Her reliefs of children are, however, her best works; that of a "Boy on a Dolphin"
is most attractive. "Christ Blessing Little Children" is charmingly rendered.

At the Academy, 1903, she exhibited a panel for an organ chamber, in low relief.

<b>ROSA, ANIELLA DI.</b> 1613-1649. A pupil in Naples of Stanzioni, who, by reason of her violent
death, has been called the Neapolitan Sirani. She acquired a good reputation as a historical
painter and doubtless had unusual talent, but as she worked in conjunction with Stanzioni and
with her husband, Agostino Beltrano, it is difficult to speak of works entirely her own.

Two pictures that were acknowledged to be hers represented the birth and death of the Virgin;
these were praised and were at one time in a church in Naples, but in a recent search for them
I was unable to satisfy myself that the pictures I saw were genuine.

Another pupil in the studio of Stanzioni was the Beltrano whom Aniella married. He painted
in fresco, Aniella in oils, and they were frequently employed together. The fine picture of
San Biagio, in the church of Santa Maria della Sanità, was one of their joint works.

Their early married life was very happy, but Aniella was beautiful and Beltrano grew jealous;
it is said without cause, through the influence of a woman who loved him and hated Aniella;
and in spite of the efforts she made to merit her husband's confidence, his distrust of her
increased. Her base rival, by her art and falsehood, finally succeeded in convincing Beltrano
that Aniella was unworthy, and in his rage he fatally stabbed her, when, at thirty-six, she
was in the prime of her beauty and talent. She survived long enough to convince her husband
of her innocence and to pardon him for his crime, but he fled from Italy and lived the life
of an outcast during ten years. He then returned to Naples, where after seven years, tormented
by remorse, death came to his release.

Domenici generously praised the works of Aniella, and quoted her master, Stanzioni, as saying
that she was the equal of the best painters of her time.

<b>ROSALBA.</b> See Carriera.

<b>ROSSI, PROPERZIA DE.</b> Born in Bologna. 1490-1530. This artist was the first woman to
succeed as a sculptor whose works can still be seen. Pupil of Raimondi, she was more or less
influenced by Tribolo. In the Church of San Petronio, in her native city, in the eleventh chapel,
is a beautiful bas-relief of two angels, executed by Properzia. They are near Tribolo's "Ascension."
A relief and a portrait bust in the same church are also ascribed to her.

Her first work in sculpture was a minute representation of the Crucifixion on a peach stone!
The executioners, women, soldiers, and disciples were all represented in this infinitesimal
space. She also inserted in a coat of arms a double-headed eagle in silver filigree; eleven
peach stones on each side, one set representing eleven apostles with an article of the creed
underneath, the other set eleven virgins with the name of a saint and her special attribute
on each. Some of these intaglios are still in a private collection in Bologna.

At length Properzia saw the folly of thus belittling her talent, and when the facade of San
Petronio was to be enriched with sculpture she asked for a share in the work and presented
a bust she had made as a pledge of her ability; she was appointed to execute a portion of the
decorations. She made a bas-relief, the subject being "Joseph and Potiphar's Wife," which Vasari
called "a lovely picture, sculptured with womanly grace, and more than admirable."

By this time the jealousy of other artists was aroused, and a story was diligently repeated
to the effect that Properzia loved a young nobleman who did not care for her, and that the
above work, so much admired, represented her own passion. Albertini and other artists waged
an absolute crusade against her, and so influenced the superintendents of the church that Properzia
was obliged to leave the work and her relief was never put in place. Through mortification
and grief her health failed, and she died when but forty years old.

In spite of her persecution she was known in all Italy, not only for her sculpture, but for
her copper-plate engraving and etching. When Pope Clement VII. went to Bologna for the coronation
of Charles V. he asked for Properzia, only to hear that she had been buried that very week.

Her story has been told by Vasari and other writers. She was handsome, accomplished in music,
distinguished for her knowledge of science, and withal a good and orderly housewife. "Well
calculated to awaken the envy, not of women only, but also of men." Canova ardently admired
the work of Properzia that remained in his day, and esteemed her early death as one of the
chief misfortunes to the advance of the fine arts in Italy.

<b>ROTKY, BARONESS HANNA.</b> Born at Czernowitz in 1857. She studied portrait painting under
Blaas, Swerdts, and Trentino, and has worked principally in Vienna. Her portrait of Freiherr
von Sterneck is in the Military Academy at Wiener-Neustadt.

<b>RUDDER, MME. DE.</b> This lady has made an art of her embroidery, and may be said to have
revived this decorative specialty and to have equalled the ancient productions which are so
beautiful and valuable. After her marriage to the well-known sculptor this gifted couple began
their collaboration. M. P. Verneuil, in Brush and Pencil, November, 1903, writes: "The first
result of this joint work was shown in 1894 at the Exposition Cercle pour l'Art, in the form
of a panel, called 'The Eagle and the Swan.' It was exhibited afterward at the Secession in
Vienna, where it was purchased by a well-known amateur and connoisseur. Other works were produced
in succession, each more interesting than its predecessor. Not daunted by difficulties that
would have discouraged the most ambitious and audacious craftswoman, Mme. de Rudder took for
a subject 'The Fates,' to decorate a screen. Aside from the artistic interest attaching to
this work, it is remarkable for another quality. The artist yielded to the instinctive liking
that she had for useful art--she ornamented a useful article--and in mastering the technical
difficulties of her work she created the new method called 're-embroidery.' For the dresses
of her 'Fates' ancient silks were utilized for a background. Some of the pieces had moth-holes,
which necessitated the addition of 'supplementary ornamental motives,' 'embroidered on cloth
to conceal the defects.' The discovery of 're-embroidery' was the result of this enforced expedient.

"This screen, finished in 1896, was exhibited at the Cercle Artistique, Brussels, where the
mayor, M. Buls, saw it. Realizing the possibilities of the method and the skill of the artist,
he gave an order to Mme. de Rudder to decorate the Marriage Hall of the Hotel de Ville. This
order was delivered in 1896. During this period Mme. de Rudder worked feverishly. About the
same time that the order for the Hotel de Ville was given, she received from M. Van Yssendyck,
architect of the Hotel Provincial in Ghent, a commission to design and embroider six large
allegorical panels. One of them represented 'Wisdom' in the habiliments of Minerva, modernized,
holding an olive branch. The five others were 'Justice,' holding a thistle, symbolizing law;
'Eloquence,' crowned with roses and holding a lyre; 'Strength,' bending an oak branch; 'Truth,'
crushing a serpent and bearing a mirror and some lilies; and 'Prudence,' with the horn of plenty
and some holly. These six panels are remarkable for the beautiful decorative feeling that suffuses
their composition. The tricks of workmanship are varied, and all combine to give a wonderful
effect. Contrary to the form of presenting the 'Fates,' all the figures are draped."

Her next important commission was for eight large panels, intended to decorate the Congo Free
State department in the Brussels Exposition. These panels represent the "Triumph of Civilization
over Barbarism," and are now in the Museum at Tervueren. They are curious in their symbols
of fetichism, and have an attraction that one can scarcely explain. The above are but a part
of her important works, and naturally, when not absorbed by these, Mme. de Rudder executes
some smaller pieces which are marvels of patience in their exquisite detail.

Perhaps her panels of the "Four Seasons" may be called her chef-d'oeuvre. The writer quoted
above also says:

"To Mme. de Rudder must be given the credit for the interpretation of work demanding large
and varied decorative effect, while in the creation of true artistic composition she easily
stands at the head of the limited coterie of men and women who have mastered this delicate
and difficult art. She is a leader in her peculiar craft."

<b>RUDE, MME. SOPHIE FRÉMIET.</b> 1797-1867. Medal at Paris Salon, 1833. Born in Dijon. This
artist painted historical and genre subjects as well as portraits. Her picture of the "Sleeping
Virgin," 1831, and that of the "Arrest of the Duchess of Burgundy in Bruges," 1841, are in
the Dijon Museum.

<b>RUYSCH, RACHEL.</b> The perfection of flower-painting is seen in the works of Rachel Ruysch.
The daughter of a distinguished professor of anatomy, she was born at Amsterdam in 1664. She
was for a time a pupil of William van Aelst, but soon studied from nature alone. Some art critics
esteem her works superior to those of De Heem and Van Huysum. Let that be as it may, the pictures
with which she was no doubt dissatisfied when they passed from her hand more than two centuries
ago are greatly valued to-day and her genius is undisputed.

When thirty years old Rachel Ruysch married the portrait painter, Julian van Pool. She bore
him ten children, but in the midst of all her cares she never laid her brush aside. Her reputation
extended to every court of Europe. She received many honors, and was elected to the Academical
Society at The Hague. She was received with distinguished courtesies on the two occasions when
she visited Düsseldorf.

The Elector John of Pfalz appointed her painter at his court, and beyond paying her generously
for her pictures, bestowed valuable gifts on her. The Elector sent several of her works to
the Grand Duke of Tuscany and to other distinguished rulers of that day.

The advance of years in no wise dulled her powers. Her pictures painted when eighty years old
are as delicately finished as those of many years earlier. She died when eighty-six, "respected
by the great, beloved even by her rivals, praised by all who knew her."

The pictures by Rachel Ruysch are honorably placed in many public galleries; in those of Florence
and Turin, as well as at Amsterdam, The Hague, Berlin, Dresden, Vienna, and Munich, they are
much valued. Although these pictures are characterized by extreme delicacy of touch, softness,
and lightness, this artist knew how so to combine these qualities as to impart an effect of
strength to her painting. Her rendering of separate flowers was exquisite, and her roses, either
by themselves or combined with other flowers, are especially beautiful. She painted fruits
in perfection, and the insects and butterflies which she sometimes added are admirably executed.

The chief criticism that can be made of her pictures is that she was less skilful in the grouping
of her flowers than in their painting. Many of her works are in private galleries, especially
in Holland. They are rarely sold; in London, about thirty years ago, a small "Bouquet of Flowers
with Insects" was sold for more than two thousand dollars, and is now of double that value.

Her pictures have the same clearness and individuality that are seen in her portrait, in which
she has short hair, a simple low-cut dress, with a necklace of beads about the throat.

<b>SALLES, ADELHEID.</b> Born in Dresden, 1825; died in Paris, 1890. Pupil of Bernhard and
Jacquand, she established her studio in Paris. Many of her works are in museums: "Elijah in
the Desert," at Lyons; "The Legend of the Alyscamps," at Nîmes; "The Village Maiden," at Grenoble;
"Field Flowers," at Havre, etc. She also painted portraits and historical subjects, among which
are "Psyche in Olympus," "The Daughters of Jerusalem in the Babylonian Captivity," and the
"Daughter of Jairus."

She was a sister of E. Puyroche-Wagner.

<b>SARTAIN, EMILY.</b> Medal at Philadelphia Exhibition, 1876; Mary Smith prize at the Pennsylvania
Academy for best painting by a woman, in 1881 and 1883. Born in Philadelphia, 1841. Miss Sartain
has been the principal of the Philadelphia School of Design for Women since 1886.

She studied engraving under her father, John Sartain, and with Luminais in Paris. She engraved
and etched book illustrations and numerous larger prints. She is also a painter of portraits
and genre pictures, and has exhibited at the Salon des Beaux-Arts, Paris. Miss Sartain has
been appointed as delegate from the United States to the International Congress on Instruction
in Drawing to be held at Berne next August. Her appointment was recommended by the Secretary
of the Interior, the United States Commissioner of Education, and Prof. J. H. Gore. Miss Sartain
has also received letters from Switzerland from M. Leon Genoud, president of the Swiss Commission,
begging her to accept the appointment.

<b>SCHAEFER, MARIA.</b> First-class medal, Bene-merenti, Roumania. Born in Dresden, 1854. Her
first studies were made in Darmstadt under A. Noack; later she was a pupil of Budde and Bauer
in Düsseldorf, and finally of Eisenmenger in Vienna. After travelling in Italy in 1879, she
settled in Darmstadt. She made several beautiful copies of Holbein's "Madonna," one for the
King of Roumania, and one as a gift from the city of Darmstadt to the Czarina Alexandra. Among
her most excellent portraits are those of Friedrich von Schmidt and his son Henry. Several
of her religious paintings ornament German churches: "St. Elizabeth" is at Biedenkopf, "Mary's
Departure from the Tomb of Christ" is at Nierstein, and "Christ with St. Louis and St. Elizabeth"
and a Rosary picture are in the Catholic church at Darmstadt.

<b>SCHEFFER, CAROLINE.</b> The daughter of Ary Lamme and wife of J. B. Scheffer was an artist
in the last decades of the eighteenth century, but the special interest connected with her
is the fact that she was the mother of Ary and Henry Scheffer. From her artistic standpoint
she had an appreciation of what was needed for the benefit of her sons. She took them to Paris
to study, devoted herself entirely to their welfare, and died in Paris in 1839.

<b>SCHLEH, ANNA.</b> Born in Berlin, 1833. Her principal studies were made in her native city
under Schrader, although she went to Rome in 1868, and finally took up her residence there.
She had, previous to her work in Rome, painted "The Marys at the Grave." Her later pictures
include "The Citron-Vender" and a number of portraits for the Henkel family of Donnersmark.

<b>SCHMITT-SCHENKH, MARIA.</b> Born in Baden, 1837. She studied her art in Munich, Carlsruhe,
and Italy. She established herself in Munich and painted pictures for churches, which are in
Kirrlach, Mauer, Ziegelhausen, and other German towns. She also designed church windows, especially
for the Liebfrauenkirche at Carlsruhe.

<b>SCHUMANN, ANNA MARIA.</b> Was called by the Dutch poets their Sappho and their Corneille.
She was born in 1607, but as her family were Protestants and frequently changed their residence
in order to avoid persecution, the place of her birth is unknown. When Anna Maria was eight
years old, they went permanently to Utrecht.

This distinguished woman was one of the exceptions said to prove rules, for though a prodigy
in childhood she did not become a commonplace or stupid woman. Learning was her passion and
art her recreation. It is difficult to repeat what is recorded of her unusual attainments and
not feel as if one were being misled by a Munchausen! But it would be ungracious to lessen
a fame almost three centuries old.

We are told that Anna Maria could speak in Latin when seven years old, and translated from
Seneca at ten. She acquired the Hebrew, Greek, Samaritan, Arabic, Chaldaic, Syriac, Ethiopian,
Turkish, and Persian languages with such thoroughness that her admirers claim that she wrote
and spoke them all. She also read with ease and spoke with finished elegance Italian, Spanish,
English, and French, besides German and her native tongue.

Anna Maria Schurmann wrote verses in various languages, but the chief end which her exhaustive
studies served was to aid her in theological research; in this she found her greatest satisfaction
and deepest interest. She was respectfully consulted upon important questions by the scholars
of different countries.

At the University of Utrecht an honorable place was reserved for her in the lecture-rooms,
and she frequently took part in the learned discussions there. The professors of the University
of Leyden paid her the compliment of erecting a tribune where she could hear all that passed
in the lecture-room without being seen by the audience.

As an artist the Schurmann reached such excellence that the painter Honthorst valued a portrait
by her at a thousand Dutch florins--about four hundred and thirty dollars--an enormous sum
when we remember that the works of her contemporary, Albert Cuyp, were sold for thirty florins!
and no higher price was paid for his works before the middle of the eighteenth century. A few
years ago his picture, called "Morning Light," was sold at a public sale in London for twenty-five
thousand dollars. How astonishing that a celebrated artist like Honthorst, who painted in Utrecht
when Cuyp painted in Dort, should have valued a portrait by Anna Maria Schurmann at the price
of thirty-three works by Cuyp! Such facts as these suggest a question regarding the relative
value of the works of more modern artists. Will the judgments of the present be thus reversed
in the future?

This extraordinary woman filled the measure of possibilities by carving in wood and ivory,
engraving on crystal and copper, and having a fine musical talent, playing on several instruments.
When it is added that she was of a lovable nature and attractive in manner, one is not surprised
that her contemporaries called her "the wonder of creation."

Volsius was her friend and taught her Hebrew. She was intimately associated with such scholars
as Salmatius and Heinsius, and was in correspondence with scholars, philosophers, and theologians
regarding important questions of her time.

Anna Maria Schurmann was singularly free from egotism. She rarely consented to publish her
writings, though often urged to do so. She avoided publicity and refused complimentary attentions
which were urged upon her, conducting herself with a modesty as rare as her endowments.

In 1664, when travelling with her brother, she became acquainted with Labadie, the celebrated
French enthusiast who preached new doctrines. He had many disciples called Labadists. He taught
that God used deceit with man when He judged it well for man to be deceived; that contemplation
led to perfection; that self-mortification, self-denial, and prayer were necessary to a godly
life; and that the Holy Spirit constantly made new revelations to the human beings prepared
to receive them.

Anna Maria Schurmann heard these doctrines when prostrated by a double sorrow, the deaths of
her father and brother. She put aside all other interests and devoted herself to those of the
Labadists. It is said that after the death of Labadie she gathered his disciples together and
conducted them to Vivert, in Friesland. William Penn saw her there, and in his account of the
meeting he tells how much he was impressed by her grave solemnity and vigorous intellect.

From this time she devoted her fortune to charity and died in poverty at the age of seventy-one.
Besides her fame as an artist and a scholar, her name was renowned for purity of heart and
fervent religious feeling. Her virtues were many and her few faults were such as could not
belong to an ignoble nature.

<b>SCUDDER, JANET.</b> Medal at Columbian Exposition, 1893. Two of her medallion portraits
are in the Luxembourg, Paris. Member of the National Sculpture Society, New York. Born in Terre
Haute, Indiana. Pupil of Rebisso in Cincinnati, of Lorado Taft in Chicago, and of Frederic
MacMonnies in Paris.

At the Chicago Exposition Miss Scudder exhibited two heroic-sized statues representing Illinois
and Indiana. The portraits purchased by the French Government are of American women and are
the first work of an American woman sculptor to be admitted to the Luxembourg. These medallions
are in bas-relief in marble, framed in bronze. Casts from them have been made in gold and silver.
The first is said to be the largest medallion ever made in gold; it is about four inches long.

To the Pan-American Exposition Miss Scudder contributed four boys standing on a snail, which
made a part of the "Fountain of Abundance." She has exhibited in New York and Philadelphia
a fountain, representing a boy dancing hilariously and snapping his fingers at four huge frogs
round his pedestal. The water spurts from the mouths of the frogs and covers the naked child.

Miss Scudder is commissioned to make a portrait statue of heroic size for the St. Louis Exposition.
She will no doubt exhibit smaller works there. Portraits are her specialty, and in these she
has made a success, as is proved by the appreciation of her work in Paris.

A memorial figure in marble is in Woodlawn Cemetery, also a cinerary urn in stone and bronze;
a bronze memorial tablet is in Union College. Miss Scudder also made the seal for the Bar Association
of New York.

<b>SEARS, SARAH C.</b> Medal at Chicago, 1893; William Evans prize, American Water-Color Society,
New York; honorable mention, Paris Exposition, 1900; bronze medal at Buffalo, 1901; silver
medal at Charleston, South Carolina. Member of the New York Water-Color Club, Boston Art Students'
Association, National Arts Club, Boston Water-Color Club. Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Pupil of Ross Turner, Joseph de Camp, Edmund C. Tarbell, and George de Forest Brush. Mrs. Sears
has also studied by herself with the criticism of masters.

She paints portraits, figures, and flowers, and is much interested in the applied arts. Of
her exhibition at the Boston Art Club, 1903, a critic writes: "Nothing could be more brilliant
in point of color than the group of seven water-color pictures of a sunny flower-garden by
Mrs. Sears. In these works pure and limpid color has been pushed to its extreme capacity, under
full daylight conditions, with a splendor of brightness which never crosses the line of crudity,
but holds the same relative values as we see in nature, the utmost force of local color courageously
set forth and contrasted without apparent artifice, blending into an harmonious unity of tone.
Two of these pictures are especially fine, with their cool backgrounds of sombre pines to set
off the magnificent masses of flowers in the foreground."

At the exhibition of the Philadelphia Water-Color Club, 1903, the Press said: "These brilliant
and overpowering combinations of color carry to a limit not before reached the decorative possibilities
of flowers."

Mrs. Sears' honors have been awarded to her portraits.

<b>SEIDLER, CAROLINE LUISE.</b> Born in Jena, 1786; died in Weimar, 1866. Her early studies
were made in Gotha with Doell; in 1811 she went to Dresden, where she became a pupil of G.
von Kügelgen; in 1817 Langer received her into his Munich studio; and between 1818 and 1823
she was in Italy, making special studies of Vanucci and Raphael. In 1823 she was appointed
instructor of the royal princesses at Weimar, and in 1824 inspector of the gallery there, and
later became court painter. Among her works are a portrait of Goethe, a picture of "Ulysses
and the Sirens," and one of "Christ, the Compassionate," which is in the church at Schestadt,
Holstein.

<b>SERRANO Y BARTOLOMÉ, JOAQUINA.</b> Born in Fermoselle. Pupil in Madrid of Juan Espalter,
of the School of Arts and Crafts, and of the School of Painting. She sent four pictures to
the Exposition of 1876 in Madrid: the portrait of a young woman, a still-life subject, a bunch
of grapes, and a "Peasant Girl"--the last two are in the Museum of Murcia. In 1878 she sent
"A Kitchen Maid on Saturday," a study, a flower piece, and two still-life pictures; and in
1881 two portraits and some landscapes. Her portrait of the painter Fortuny, which belongs
to the Society of Authors and Artists, gained her a membership in that Society. Two other excellent
portraits are those of her teacher, Espalter, and General Trillo.

<b>SEWELL, AMANDA BREWSTER.</b> Bronze medal, Chicago, 1893; bronze medal, Buffalo, 1901; silver
medal, Charleston; Clarke prize, Academy of Design, 1903. Member of the Woman's Art Club and
an associate of National Academy of Design. Born in Northern New York. Pupil at Cooper Union
under Douglas Volk and R. Swain Gifford, and of Art Students' League under William Chase and
William Sartain; also of Julian's Academy under Tony Robert Fleury and Bouguereau, and of Carolus
Duran.

Mrs. Sewell's "A Village Incident" is owned by the Philadelphia Social Art Club; "Where Roses
Bloom" is in the Boston Art Club; portrait of Professor William R. Ware is in the Library of
Columbia University. Her portrait of Amalia Küssner will be exhibited and published.

Mrs. Sewell is the first woman to take the Clarke prize. She has been a careful student in
the arrangement of portraits in order to make attractive pictures as well as satisfactory likenesses.
Of the pictures she exhibited at the Academy of Design, winter of 1903, Charles H. Caffin writes:

"The portrait of Mrs. Charles S. Dodge, by Mrs. A. Brewster Sewell, is the finest example in
the exhibition of pictorial treatment, the lady being wrapped in a brown velvet cloak with
broad edges of brown fur, and seated before a background of dark foliage. It is a most distinguished
canvas, though one may object to the too obvious affectation of the arrangement of the hands
and of the gesture of the head--features which will jar upon many eyes and detract from the
general handsomeness. The same lady sends a large classical subject, the 'Sacred Hecatomb,'
to which the Clarke prize was awarded. It represents a forest scene lit by slanting sunlight,
through which winds a string of bulls, the foremost accompanied by a band of youths and maidens
with dance and song. The light effects are managed very skilfully and with convincing truth,
and the figures are free and animated in movement, though the flesh tints are scarcely agreeable.
It is a decorative composition that might be fitly placed in a large hall in some country house."

<b>SEYDELMANN, APOLLONIE.</b> Member of the Dresden Academy. Born at Trieste about 1768; died
in Dresden, 1840. Pupil of J. C. Seydelmann, whom she married. Later she went to Italy and
there studied miniature painting under Madame Maron.

She is best known for her excellent copies of old pictures, and especially by her copy of the
Sistine Madonna, from which Müller's engraving was made.

<b>SHAW, ANNIE C.</b> The first woman elected Academician in the Academy of Design, Chicago,
1876. Born at Troy, New York. Pupil of H. C. Ford. Landscape painter. Among her works are "On
the Calumet," "Willow Island," "Keene Valley, New York," "Returning from the Fair," 1878, which
was exhibited in Chicago, New York, and Boston. To the Centennial, Philadelphia, 1876, she
sent her "Illinois Prairie."

"Returning from the Fair" shows a group of Alderney cattle in a road curving through a forest.
At the time of its exhibition an art critic wrote: "The eye of the spectator is struck with
the rich mass of foliage, passing from the light green of the birches in the foreground, where
the light breaks through, to the dark green of the dense forest, shading into the brownish
tints of the early September-tinged leaves. Farther on, the eye is carried back through a beautiful
vista formed by the road leading through the centre of the picture, giving a fine perspective
and distance through a leafy archway of elms and other forest trees that gracefully mingle
their branches overhead, through which one catches a glimpse of deep blue sky. As the eye follows
this roadway to its distant part the sun lights up the sky, tingeing with a mellow light the
group of small trees and willows, contrasting beautifully with the almost sombre tones of the
dense forest in the middle distance."

<b>SHRIMPTON, ADA M.</b> Has exhibited at the Royal Academy, Royal Institute of Water-Colors,
British Artists, and principal provincial galleries in England and in Australia; also at the
Paris Salon. Member of Society of Women Artists, London. Born in Old Alresford, Hampshire.
Pupil of John Sparkes at South Kensington, and of Jean Paul Laurens and Benjamin Constant in Paris.

This artist has painted principally figure subjects, among which are "Cedric's Daughter," "Thoughts
of Youth are Long Thoughts," "Dream of the Past," "Pippa Passes," "Dorothy's Bridesmaid's Dress,"
etc., etc. Recently she has devoted herself to portraits of ladies and children, in both oil
and water-colors.

<b>SIRANI, ELISABETTA.</b> Has been praised as a woman and as an artist by Lanzi, Malvasia,
Picinardi, and other writers until one must believe that in spite of the exaggeration of her
personal qualities and her artistic genius, she was a singularly admirable woman and a gifted
artist.

She was born in Bologna about 1640, and, like Artemisia Gentileschi, was the daughter of a
painter of the school of Guido Reni, whose follower Elisabetta also became. From the study
of her master she seems to have acquired the power to perceive and reproduce the greatest possible
beauty with which her subjects could be invested.

She worked with such rapidity that she was accused of profiting by her father's assistance,
and in order to refute this accusation it was arranged that the Duchess of Brunswick, the Duchess
of Mirandola, Duke Cosimo, and others should meet in her studio, on which occasion Elisabetta
charmed and astonished her guests by the ease and perfection with which she sketched in and
shaded drawings of the subjects which one person after another suggested to her.

Her large picture of the "Baptism of Christ" was completed when the artist was but twenty years
old. Malvasia gives a list of one hundred and twenty pictures executed by Elisabetta, and yet
she was but twenty-five when her mysterious death occurred.

In the Pinacoteca of Bologna is the "St. Anthony Adoring the Virgin and Infant Jesus," by the
Sirani, which is much admired; several other works of hers are in her native city. "The Death
of Abel" is in the Gallery of Turin; the "Charity," in the Sciarra Palace in Rome; "Cupids"
and a picture of "Martha and Mary," in the Vienna Gallery; an "Infant Jesus" and a picture
called "A Subject after Guido" are in the Hermitage at Petersburg.

Her composition was graceful and refined, her drawing good, her color fresh and sweet, with
a resemblance to Guido Reni in the half tones. She was especially happy in the heads of the
Madonna and the Magdalene, imparting to them an expression of exalted tenderness.

Her paintings on copper and her etchings were most attractive; indeed, all her works revealed
the innate grace and refinement of her nature.

Aside from her art the Sirani was a most interesting woman. She was very beautiful in person,
and the sweetness of her temper made her a favorite with her friends, while her charming voice
and fine musical talent added to her many attractions. Her admirers have also commended her
taste in dress, which was very simple, and have even praised her moderation in eating! She
was skilled in domestic matters and accustomed to rise at dawn to attend to her household affairs,
not permitting her art to interfere with the more homely duties of her life. One writer says
that "her devoted filial affection, her feminine grace, and the artless benignity of her manners
rounded out a character regarded as an ideal of perfection by her friends."

It may be that her tragic fate caused an exaggerated estimate to be made of her both as a woman
and an artist. The actual cause of her death is unknown. There have been many theories concerning
it. It was very generally believed that she was poisoned, although neither the reason for the
crime nor the name of its perpetrator was known.

By some she was believed to have been sacrificed to the same professional jealousy that destroyed
Domenichino; others accepted the theory that a princely lover who had made unworthy proposals
to her, which she had scorned, had revenged himself by her murder. At length a servant, Lucia
Tolomelli, who had been a long time in the Sirani family, was suspected of having poisoned
her young mistress, was arrested, tried, and banished. But after a time the father of Elisabetta,
finding no convincing reason to believe her guilty, obtained her pardon.

Whatever may have been the cause of the artist's death, the effect upon her native city was
overwhelming and the day of her burial was one of general mourning, the ceremony being attended
with great pomp. She was buried beside Guido Reni, in the Chapel of Our Lady of the Rosary,
in the magnificent Church of the Dominicans.

Poets and orators vied with each other in sounding her praises, and a book called "Il Penello
Lagrimato," published at Bologna soon after her death, is a collection of orations, sonnets,
odes, epitaphs, and anagrams, in Latin and Italian, setting forth the love which her native
city bore to this beautiful woman, and rehearsing again and again her charms and her virtues.

In the Ercolani Gallery there is a picture of Elisabetta painting a portrait of her father.
It is said that she also painted a portrait of herself looking up with a spiritual expression,
which is in a private collection and seen by few people.

<b>SMITH, JESSIE WILLCOX.</b> Mary Smith prize, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, 1903. Member
of the Plastic Club and a fellow of the Academy, Philadelphia. Born in Philadelphia, where
she was a pupil of the Academy; also studied under Thomas Eakins, Thomas P. Anschutz, and Howard
Pyle.

Miss Smith is essentially an illustrator and her work is seen in all the leading American magazines.
"The Child's Calendar" is the work of this artist.

<b>SONREL, MLLE.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>SPANÒ, MARIA.</b> Silver medal, Naples, 1859, for a picture of a "Contadina of Sorrento."
Born in Naples, 1843. Pupil of her father, Raffaele Spanò, under whose direction she made a
thorough study of figure painting, the results of which are evident in her excellent portraits
and historical subjects. She has also been greatly interested in landscape painting, in which
she has been successful. "A Confidence" was bought by the Gallery at Capodimonte, and two of
her pictures were acquired by the Provincial Council of Naples--a "Contadina," life size, and
a "Country Farmyard." One of her best pictures is "Bice at the Castle of Rosate."

<b>SPILIMBERG, IRENE DI.</b> Born in Udina, 1540. Her family was of German origin and exalted
position. She was educated in Venice with great care and all the advantages that wealth could
command. She was much in the society of learned men, which she preferred before that of the
world of fashion.

Titian was her roaster in painting. Lanzi and Rudolfi praised her as an artist, and her fame
now rests on the testimony of those who saw her works rather than on the pictures themselves,
some of which are said to be in private collections in Italy. Titian painted her portrait as
a tribute to her beauty; Tasso celebrated her intellectual charm in a sonnet, and yet she was
but nineteen years old when she died.

Twenty years later a collection of orations and poems was published, all of which set forth
her attractions and acquirements, and emphasized the sadness of her early death and the loss
that the world had suffered thereby. When one remembers how soon after death those who have
done a life work are forgotten, such a memorial to one so young is worthy of note.

<b>SPURR, GERTRUDE E.</b> Associate member of Royal Canadian Academy and member of the Ontario
Society of Arts. Born in Scarborough, England. Pupil of the Lambeth Art School in drawing,
of E. H. Holder in painting, in England; also of George B. Bridgman in New York. This artist
usually paints small pictures of rural scenery in England and Wales--little stone cottages,
bridges, river and mountain scenes. "Castle Rock, North Devon," was exhibited at Buffalo, and
is owned by Herbert Mason, Esq., of Toronto. "A Peep at Snowdon" and "Dutch Farm Door, Ontario,"
are in Montreal collections. Her works have been exhibited in London at the Royal Society of
British Artists and the Society of Lady Artists, and have been sold from these exhibitions.

I quote from the Queen, in reference to one of Miss Spurr's London exhibitions: "We know of
no more favorite sketching-ground in N. Wales for the artist than Bettws-y-coed. Every yard
of that most picturesque district has been painted and sketched over and over again. The artist
in this instance reproduces some of the very primitive cottages in which the natives of the
principality sojourn. The play of light on the modest dwelling-places is an effective element
in the cleverly rendered drawing now in the Society of Artists' Exhibition. Miss Spurr, the
daughter of a Scarboro lawyer, commenced her art studies with Mr. E. H. Holder, in the winter
painting dead birds, fruit, and other natural objects, and in summer spending her time on the
coast or in the woods or about Rievaulx Abbey. Any remaining time to be filled up was occupied
by attending the Scarboro School of Art under the instruction of Mr. Strange. In a local sketching
club Miss Spurr distinguished herself and gained several prizes, and she has at length taken
up her abode in the metropolis, where she has attended the Lambeth Schools, studying diligently
both from casts and life."

<b>STACEY, ANNA L.</b> Honorable mention at Exhibition of Chicago Artists, 1900; Young Fortnightly
Club prize, 1902; Martin B. Cahn prize, Exhibition at Art Institute, Chicago, 1902. Member
of Chicago Society of Artists. Born in Glasgow, Missouri.

Pupil of Art Institute in Chicago. Paints portraits, figure subjects, and landscapes. The Cahn
prize was awarded to the "Village at Twilight." "Florence" is owned by the Klio Club; "Trophies
of the Fields," by the Union League Club, Chicago.

Recently Miss Stacey has painted a number of successful portraits.

<b>STADING, EVELINA.</b> Born in Stockholm. 1803-1829. She was a pupil of Fahlcrantz for a
time in her native city, and then went to Dresden, where she made a thorough study and some
excellent copies of the works of Ruisdael. In 1827 she went to Rome, making studies in Volzburg
and the Tyrol en route. She painted views in Switzerland and Italy, and two of her landscapes
are in the gallery in Christiania.

<b>STANLEY, LADY DOROTHY.</b> Member of the Ladies' Athenaeum Club. Born in London. Pupil of
Sir Edward Poynter--then Mr. Poynter--and of M. Legros, at Slade School, University College,
London; also of Carolus Duran and Henner in Paris.

Lady Stanley has exhibited at the Royal Academy, the new Gallery, at the English provincial
exhibitions, and at the Salon, Paris.

Her picture, "His First Offence," is in the Tate National Gallery; "Leap Frog," in the National
Gallery of Natal, Pietermaritzburg. Other pictures of hers are "A Water Nymph," "The Bathers,"
etc., which are in private galleries. "Leap Frog" was in the Academy exhibition, 1903.

<b>STEBBINS, EMMA.</b> 1815-1882. Born in New York. As an amateur artist Miss Stebbins made
a mark by her work in black and white and her pictures in oils. After a time she decided to
devote herself to sculpture. In Rome she studied this art and made her first success with a
statuette of "Joseph." This was followed by "Columbus" and "Satan Descending to tempt Mankind."
For Central Park, New York, she executed a large fountain, the subject being "The Angel of
the Waters."

<b>STEPHENS, MRS. ALICE BARBER.</b> Mary Smith prize, 1890. Pupil of the Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts and of the Julian Academy, Paris. An illustrator whose favorite subjects are those
of every-day home life--the baby, the little child, the grandmother in cap and spectacles, etc.

[No reply to circular.]

<b>STEVENS, EDITH BARRETTO.</b> Two scholarships and a prize of one hundred dollars from the
Art Students' League, of which she is a member. Born in Houston, Virginia, in 1878. Studied
at Art Students' League and under Daniel C. French and George Gray Barnard.

Miss Stevens mentions as her principal works "A Candlestick Representing a Girl Asleep under
a Poppy," "Figure of Spring," and the "Spirit of Flame."

Miss Stevens is one of the women sculptors who have been selected to share in the decoration
of the buildings for the St. Louis Exposition. She is to make two reclining figures on the
pediment over the main entrance to the Liberal Arts Building. She has in her studio two reclining
figures which will probably serve to fulfil this commission.

Miss Stevens is modest about her work and does not care to talk much about this important commission,
even suggesting that her design may not be accepted; if she is successful it will certainly
be an unusual honor for a woman at her age, whose artistic career covers less than five years.

<b>STEVENS, MARY.</b> Bronze medal at the Crystal Palace. Member of the Dudley Gallery, London.
Born at Liverpool. Pupil of William Kerry and of her husband, Albert Stevens, in England, and
of the Julian Academy, Paris.

Mrs. Stevens' pictures were well considered when she exhibited a variety of subjects; of late,
however, she has made a specialty of pictures of gardens, and has painted in many famous English
and French gardens, among others, those of Holland House, Warwick Castle, and St. Anne's, Dublin.
In France, the gardens of the Duchesse de Dino and the Countess Foucher de Careil.

Mrs. Stevens--several of whose works are owned in America--has commissions to paint in some
American gardens and intends to execute them in 1904.

<b>STILLMAN, MARIE SPARTALI.</b> Pupil of Ford Madox Brown. This artist first exhibited in
public at the Dudley Gallery, London, in 1867, a picture called "Lady Pray's Desire." In 1870
she exhibited at the Royal Academy, "Saint Barbara" and "The Mystic Tryst." In 1873 she exhibited
"The Finding of Sir Lancelot Disguised as a Fool" and "Sir Tristram and La Belle Isolde," both
in water-colors. Of these, a writer in the Art Journal said: "Mrs. Stillman has brought imagination
to her work. These vistas of garden landscape are conceived in the true spirit of romantic
luxuriance, when the beauty of each separate flower was a delight. The figures, too, have a
grace that belongs properly to art, and which has been well fitted to pictorial expression.
The least satisfactory part of these clever drawings is their color. There is an evident feeling
of harmony, but the effect is confused and the prevailing tones are uncomfortably warm."

W. M. Rossetti wrote: "Miss Spartali has a fine power of fusing the emotion of her subject
into its color and of giving aspiration to both; beyond what is actually achieved one sees
a reaching toward something ulterior. As one pauses before her work, a film in that or in the
mind lifts or seems meant to lift, and a subtler essence from within the picture quickens the
sense. In short, Miss Spartali, having a keen perception of the poetry which resides in beauty
and in the means of art for embodying beauty, succeeds in infusing that perception into the
spectator of her handiwork."

[No reply to circular.]

<b>STOCKS, MINNA.</b> Born in Scheverin, 1846. Pupil of Schloepke in Scheverin, Stiffeck in
Berlin, E. Bosch in Düsseldorf, and J. Bauck in Munich. Her "Lake of Scheverin" is in the Museum
of her native city.

Her artistic reputation rests largely on her pictures of animals. She exhibits at the Expositions
of the Society of Women Artists, Berlin, and among her pictures seen there is "A Journey through
Africa," which represents kittens playing with a map of that country. It was attractive and
was praised for its artistic merit. In fact, her puppies and kittens are most excellent results--have
been called masterpieces--of the most intimate and intelligent study of nature.

Among her works are "A Quartet of Cats," "The Hostile Brothers," and "The Outcast."

<b>STOKES, MARIANNA.</b> Honorable mention at Paris Salon, 1884; gold medal in Munich, 1890;
medal at Chicago in 1893. Member of the Society of Painters in Tempera. Born in Graz-Styria.
Pupil of Professor W. von Lindenschmit in Munich, of M. Dagnan Bouveret and M. Courtois in Paris.

Her picture, "A Parting," is in the Liverpool Gallery; "Childhood's Wonder," in the Nottingham
Gallery; "Aucassin and Nicolette," in the Pittsburg Gallery, etc.

Mrs. Stokes writes me that she has taken great interest in the revival of tempera painting
in recent years. In reviewing the exhibition in the New Gallery, London, the Spectator of May
2, 1903, speaks of the portraits by Mrs. Stokes as charming, and adds: "They are influenced
by the primitive painters, but in the right way. That is, the painter has used a formal and
unrealistic style, but without any sacrifice of artistic freedom." Of a portrait of a child
the same writer says: "It would be difficult to imagine a happier portrait of a little child,...
and in it may be seen how the artist has used her freedom; for although she has preserved a
primitive simplicity, the sky, sea, and windmill have modern qualities of atmosphere. The picture
is very subtle in drawing and color, and the sympathy for child-life is perfect, seen as it
is both in the hands and in the eyes.

"Another portrait by the same artist is hung on a marble pillar at the top of the stairs leading
up to the balcony. The admirable qualities of decoration are well shown by the way it is hung....
Is a fine piece of strong and satisfactory color, but the decorative aspect in no way takes
precedence of the portraiture. We think of the man first and the picture afterward."

At the Academy, in 1903, Mrs. Stokes exhibited a portrait of J. Westlake, Esq., K.C.

<b>STORER, MRS. MARIA LONGWORTH.</b> Gold medal at Paris Exposition, 1900. Born in Cincinnati,
Ohio. Pupil of the Cincinnati Art School, which her father, Joseph Longworth, endowed with
three hundred thousand dollars.

After working four years, making experiments in clay decoration at the Dallas White Ware Pottery,
Mrs. Storer, "who had the enthusiasm of the artistic temperament coupled with fixity of purpose
and financial resources,... had the courage to open a Pottery which she called Rookwood, the
name of her father's place on the hills beyond. This was in 1880."

Nine years later this pottery had become self-supporting, and Mrs. Storer then dissolved her
personal association with it, leaving it in charge of Mr. William Watts Taylor, who had collaborated
with her during six years.

At the Paris Exposition Mrs. Storer exhibited about twenty pieces of pottery mounted in bronze--all
her own work. It was an exquisite exhibition, and I was proud that it was the work of one of
my countrywomen.

In 1897 Mr. Storer was appointed United States minister to Belgium, and Mrs. Storer took a
Japanese artist, Asano, to Brussels, to instruct her in bronze work. Two years later Mr. Storer's
mission was changed to Spain, and there Mrs. Storer continued, under Asano's guidance, her
work in bronze, some of the results being seen in the mounting of her pottery.

At present Mr. Storer is our Ambassador to Austria, and Mrs. Storer writes me that she hopes
to continue her work in bronze in Vienna.

In the summer of 1903 Mrs. Storer was in Colorado Springs, where she was much interested in
the pottery made by Mr. Van Briggle. She became one of the directors of the Van Briggle Pottery
Company, and encouraged the undertaking most heartily.

<b>STUMM, MAUD.</b> Born in Cleveland, Ohio. Pupil of Art Students' League under Kenyon Cox
and Siddons Mowbray, and of Oliver Merson in Paris, where her painting was also criticised
and approved by Whistler. Her earliest work was flower painting, in which she gained an enviable
reputation.

In Paris she began the study of figure painting, and her exhibition at the Salon was favorably
received, the purity and brilliancy of her coloring being especially commended.

Several of Miss Stumm's pictures are well known by reproductions. Among these is the "Mother
and Child," the original of which is owned by Mr. Patterson, of the Chicago Tribune. Her calendars,
too, are artistic and popular; some of these have reached a sale of nearly half a million.

A series of studies of Sarah Bernhardt, in pastel, and a portrait of Julia Marlowe are among
her works in this medium. Many of her figure subjects, such as "A Venetian Matron" and "A Violinist,"
are portraits, not studies from professional models.

This artist has painted an unusual variety of subjects, but is ambitious in still another department
of painting--decorative art--in which she believes she could succeed.

Her works are seen in the exhibitions of the Society of American Artists and of the American
Water-Color Society.

<b>SWOBODA, JOSEPHINE.</b> Born in Vienna, 1861. Pupil of Laufberger and I. V. Berger. This
portrait artist has been successful and numbers among her subjects the Princess Henry of Prussia,
the late Queen of England, whose portrait she painted at Balmoral in 1893, the Minister Bauhaus,
and several members of the royal house of Austria. The portrait of Queen Victoria was exhibited
at the Water-Color Club, Vienna.

She also paints charming miniatures. Her pictures are in both oil and water-colors, and are
praised by the critics of the exhibitions in which they are seen.

<b>SWOPE, MRS. KATE.</b> Honorable mention at National Academy of Design, 1888; honorable mention
and gold medal, Southern Art League, 1895; highest award, Louisville Art League, 1897. Member
of Louisville Art League. Born in Louisville, Kentucky. Pupil of Edgar Ward and M. Flagg in
New York, and later of B. R. Fitz.

Mrs. Swope devotes herself almost entirely to sacred subjects. The pictures that have been
awarded medals are Madonnas. She prefers to paint her pictures out of doors and in the sunlight,
which results in her working in a high key and, as she writes, "in tender, opalescent color."

One of her medal pictures is the "Head of a Madonna," out of doors, in a hazy, blue shadow,
against a background of grapevine foliage. The head is draped in white; the eyes are cast down
upon the beholder. A sun spot kisses the white draperies on the shoulder. It is a young, girlish
face, but the head is suggestive of great exaltation.

A second picture which received an award was a "Madonna and Child," out of doors. The figure
is half life size. Dressed in white, the Madonna is stretched at full length upon the grass.
Raised on one arm, she gazes into the face of the infant Christ Child.

Mrs. Swope has had success in pastel, in which, not long since, she exhibited a "Mother and
Child," which was much admired. The mother--in an arbor--held the child up and reverently kissed
the cheek. It was called "Love," and was exhibited in New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago.

Mrs. Swope's most ambitious work--five by three feet in size--represents an allegorical subject
and is called "Revelation."

<b>SUES, MLLE. LEA.</b> Three silver medals from the School of Arts, Geneva; diploma of honor
at the National Swiss Exposition, 1896. Member of l'Athénée, Geneva. Born at Genoa and studied
there under Professors Gillet, Poggy, and Castan.

This artist paints landscapes, Swiss subjects principally. Her pictures of Mont Blanc and Chamounix
are popular and have been readily sold. They are in private collections in several countries,
and when exhibited have been praised in German and French as well as in Swiss publications.

<b>SYAMOUR, MME. MARGUERITE.</b> Honorable mention, 1887; bronze medal at Exposition at Lyons.
Born at Bréry, 1861. Pupil of Mercié. Her principal works are a plaster statue, "New France,"
1886, in the Museum of Issoudun; a statue of Voltaire; a plaster statue, "Life"; a plaster
group, the "Last Farewells"; a statue of "Diana," in the Museum of Amiens; a great number of
portrait busts, among them those of Jules Grévy, Flammarion, J. Claretie, etc.

At the Salon, Artistes Français, 1902, this artist exhibited a "Portrait of M. G. L.," and
in 1904 "A Vision" and "La Dame aux Camelias."

<b>TAYLOR, ELIZABETH V.</b> Sears prize, Boston Art Museum; bronze medal, Nashville Exposition,
1897. Member of the Copley Society, Boston. Pupil of E. C. Tarbell and Joseph de Camp in the
School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

This artist paints portraits in miniature and in life size. Her works are numerous and have
been seen in many exhibitions.

<b>THAULOW, MME. ALEXANDRA.</b> Wife of the great Scandinavian painter. This lady is an artist
in bookbinding and her work is much admired. A writer, H. F., says, in the Studio, December,
1903: "When the exhibition of bookbinding was held some time ago at the Musée Galliera, Madame
Thaulow's showcase attracted attention by its variety and its grace. The charm of these bindings
lies in the fact that they have none of the massive heaviness of so many productions of this
kind. One should be able to handle a book with ease, and not be forced to rest content with
beholding it displaying its beauties behind glass or on the library shelf; and Madame Thaulow
understood this perfectly when she executed the bindings now reproduced here. But these bindings
are interesting not only from the standpoint of their utility and intelligent application;
their ornamentation delights one by its graceful interpretation of Nature, rendered with a
very special sense of decoration; moreover, the coloring of these mosaics of leather is restrained
and fresh, and the hollyhocks and the hortensias, the bunches of mistletoe and the poppies,
which form some of her favorite motifs, go to make up a delicious symphony."

<b>THEVENIN, MARIE ANNE ROSALIE.</b> Medals at the Salons of 1849, 1859, 1861. Born at Lyons.
Pupil of Leon Cogniet. Portrait and figure painter. Among her pictures the following are noticeable:
"Flora McIvor and Rose Bradwardine," 1848; "Portrait of Abbé Jacquet," 1859; "Portrait of a
Lady," 1861.

<b>THOMAS-SOYER, MME. MATHILDE.</b> Honorable mention, 1880; third-class medal, 1881; bronze
medal, Exposition, 1889. Born at Troyes, 1859. Pupil of Chapu and Cain. The principal works
of this sculptor are: "A Russian Horse"; "Lost Dogs"; "Russian Greyhounds"; "Huntsmen and a
Poacher," in the Museum of Semur; "Combat of Dogs," purchased by the Government; "Cow and Calf,"
in the Museum of Nevers; "Stag and Bloodhound," in the Museum of Troyes, etc.

At the Salon, Artistes Français, 1902, Mme. Thomas-Soyer exhibited "An Irish Setter and a Laverock,"
and in 1903 "Under the White Squall."

<b>THORNYCROFT, MARY.</b> Born 1814; died 1895. Daughter of John Francis, the sculptor, whose
pupil she was. This artist exhibited at the Royal Academy when very young. Her first important
work was a life-size figure called "The Flower-Girl." In 1840 she married Thomas Thornycroft,
and went to Rome two years later, spending a year in study there. Queen Victoria, after her
return, commissioned her to execute statues of the royal children as the Four Seasons. These
were much admired when exhibited at the Academy. Later she made portrait statues and busts
of many members of the royal family, which were also seen at the Academy Exhibition.

In his "Essays on Art," Palgrave wrote: "Sculpture has at no time numbered many successful
followers among women. We have, however, in Mrs. Thornycroft, one such artist who, by some
recent advance and by the degrees of success which she has already reached, promises fairly
for the art. Some of this lady's busts have refinement and feeling."

<b>THURBER, CAROLINE NETTLETON.</b> Born in Oberlin, Ohio. Pupil of Howard Helmick in Washington,
and of Benjamin Constant and Jean Paul Laurens in Paris.

In 1898 Mrs. Thurber took a studio in Paris, where her first work was the portrait of a young
violinist, which was exhibited in the Salon of the following spring. This picture met with
immediate favor with the public, the art critics, and the press. The Duchess of Sutherland,
upon seeing it, sent for the artist and arranged for a portrait of her daughter, which was
painted the following autumn while Mrs. Thurber was a guest at Dunrobin Castle. This portrait
was subsequently exhibited in London and Liverpool.

Mrs. Thurber has painted portraits of many persons of distinction in Paris, among them one
of Mlle. Ollivier, only daughter of Émile Ollivier, president of the Académie Française. Monsieur
Ollivier, in a personal note to the artist, made the following comment upon the portrait of
his daughter: "How much I thank you for the portrait of my daughter; it lives, so powerfully
is it colored, and one is tempted to speak to it." Mrs. Thurber is an exhibitor in the Salon,
Royal Academy, and New Gallery, London, and other foreign exhibitions, as well as in those
of this country.

She now has a studio in the family home at Bristol, Rhode Island, on Narragansett Bay, where
she works during half the year. In winter she divides her time among the larger cities as her
orders demand. While Mrs. Thurber's name is well known through her special success in the portraiture
of children, she has painted many prominent men and women in Chicago, New York, Philadelphia,
Washington, and New England.

Among her later portraits are those of Mrs. James Sullivan, one of the lady commissioners of
the St. Louis Exposition; Lieut.-Gen. Nelson A. Miles; Albert, son of Dr. Shaw, editor of the
Review of Reviews; Mrs. A. A. F. Johnston, former Dean of Oberlin College; Augustus S. Miller,
mayor of Providence; Hon. L. F. C. Garvin, governor of Rhode Island; and Judge Austin Adams,
late of the Supreme Court of Iowa.

<b>THURWANGER, FELICITÉ CHASTANIER.</b> This remarkable artist, not long since, when eighty-four
years old, sent to the exhibition at Nice--which is, in a sense, a branch of the Paris Salon--three
portraits which she had just finished. "They were hung in the place of honor and unanimously
voted to belong to the first class."

Mme. Thurwanger was the pupil of Delacroix during five years. The master unconsciously did
his pupil an injury by saying to her father: "That daughter of yours is wonderfully gifted,
and if she were a man I would make a great artist of her." Hearing this, the young artist burst
into tears, and her whole career was clouded by the thought that her sex prevented her being
a really great artist, and induced in her an abnormal modesty. This occurred about forty-five
years ago; since then we have signally changed all that!

Delacroix, who was an enthusiast in color, was the leader of one school of his time, and was
opposed by Ingres, who was so wanting in this regard that he was accused of being color-blind.

Mme. Thurwanger had a curious experience with these artists. When but seventeen she was commissioned
by the Government to copy a picture in the Louvre. One morning, when she was working in the
Gallery, Ingres passed by and stopped to look at her picture. He examined it carefully, and
with an expression of satisfaction said: "I am so very glad to see that you have the true idea
of art! Remember always that there is no color in Nature; the outline is all; if the outline
is good, no matter about the coloring, the picture will be good."

This story would favor the color-blind theory, as Ingres apparently saw color neither in the
original nor the copy.

An hour later Delacroix came to watch the work of his pupil, and after a few minutes exclaimed:
"I am so happy, my dear girl, to see that you have the true and only spirit of art. Never forget
that in Nature there is no line, no outline; everything is color!"

In 1852 Mme. Thurwanger was in Philadelphia and remained more than two years. She exhibited
her pictures, which were favorably noticed by the Philadelphia Enquirer. In July of the above
year her portraits were enthusiastically praised. "Not a lineament, not a feature, however
trivial, escapes the all-searching eye of the artist, who has the happy faculty of causing
the expression of the mind and soul to beam forth in the life-like and speaking face."

In October, 1854, her picture of a "Madonna and Child" was thus noticed by the same paper:
"For brilliancy, animation, maternal solicitude, form, grace, and feature, it would be difficult
to imagine anything more impressive. It is in every sense a gem of the pictorial art, while
the execution and finish are such as genius alone could inspire."

<b>TIRLINKS, LIEWENA.</b> Born in Bruges, a daughter of Master Simon. This lady was not only
esteemed as an artist in London, but she won the heart of an English nobleman, to whom she
was given in marriage by Henry VIII. Her miniatures were much admired and greatly in fashion
at the court. Some critics have thought the Tirlinks to be the same person with Liewena Bennings
or Benic, whose story, as we know it, is much the same as the above.

<b>TORMOCZY, BERTHA VON.</b> Diploma of honor, Budapest and Agram. Born at Innspruck, 1846.
Pupil of Hausch, Her, and Schindler. Among her pictures are "Girl in the Garden," "Blossoming
Meadows," "Autumn Morning," and a variety of landscapes.

<b>TORO, PETRONELLA.</b> A painter of miniatures on ivory which have attained distinction.
Among those best known are the portraits of the Prince of Carignano, Duke Amadeo, and the Duchess
d'Aosta with the sons of the Prince of Carignano. She has painted a young woman in an antique
dress and another in a modern costume. Her works are distinguished by firmness of touch and
great intelligence. She has executed some most attractive landscapes.

<b>TREU, OR TREY, KATHARINA.</b> Born at Bamberg. 1742-1811. A successful painter of flowers
and still-life. Her talent was remarkable when but a child, and her father, who was her only
master, began her lessons when she was ten years old. When still young she was appointed court
painter at Mannheim, and in 1776 was made a professor in the Academy at Düsseldorf. Her pictures
are in the Galleries of Bamberg and Carlsruhe, and in the Darmstadt and Stuttgart Museums.

<b>URRUTIA DE URMENETA, ANA GERTRUDIS DE.</b> Member of the Academy of Fine Arts, Cadiz, 1846.
Born in Cadiz. 1812-1850. She began the study of drawing with Javier, and after her marriage
to Juan José de Urmeneta, professor of painting and sculpture and director of the Cadiz Academy,
continued her work under his direction. A "St. Filomena" and "Resurrection of the Body," exhibited
in 1846, are among her best pictures. Her "St. Jeronimo" is in the new cathedral at Cadiz,
and the Academy has shown respect to her memory by placing her portrait in the room in which
its sessions are held.

<b>VIANI, MARIA.</b> Born at Bologna. 1670-1711. I find no reliable biographical account of
this artist, whose name appears in the catalogue of the Dresden Gallery as the painter of the
"Reclining Venus, lying on a blue cushion, with a Cupid at her side."

<b>VERELST, MARIAN.</b> Born in 1680. This artist belonged in Antwerp and was of the celebrated
artistic family of her name. She was a pupil of her father, Hermann, and her uncle, Simon Verelst.
She became famous for the excellent likenesses she made and for the artistic qualities of her
small portraits.

Like so many other artists, she was distinguished for accomplishments outside her art. She
was a fine musician and a marvel in her aptitude in acquiring both ancient and modern languages.
A very interesting anecdote is related of her, as follows: When in London, one evening at the
theatre she sat near six German gentlemen, who expressed their admiration of her in the most
flattering terms of their language, and at the same time observed her so closely as to be extremely
rude. The artist, in their own tongue, remarked that such extravagant praise was the opposite
of a compliment. One of them repeated his words in Latin, when she again replied in the same
language. The strangers then asked her if she would give them her name. This she did and further
told them that she lived with her uncle, Simon Verelst. In the end she painted the portrait
of each of these men, and the story of their experience proved the reason for the acquaintance
of the artist being sought by people of culture and position. Walpole speaks in praise of her
portraits and also mentions her unusual attainments in languages.

<b>VIGÉE, MARIE LOUISE ELIZABETH.</b> Member of the French Academy. Born in Paris in 1755.
That happy writer and learned critic, M. Charles Blanc, begins his account of her thus: "All
the fairies gathered about the cradle of Elizabeth Vigée, as for the birth of a little princess
in the kingdom of art. One gave her beauty, another genius; the fairy Gracious offered her
a pencil and a palette. The fairy of marriage, who had not been summoned, told her, it is true,
that she should wed M. Le Brun, the expert in pictures--but for her consolation the fairy of
travellers promised her that she should bear from court to court, from academy to academy,
from Paris to Petersburg, and from Rome to London, her gayety, her talent, and her easel--before
which all the sovereigns of Europe and all those whom genius had crowned should place themselves
as subjects for her brush."

It is difficult to write of Madame Le Brun in outline because her life was so interesting in
detail. Though she had many sorrows, there is a halo of romance and a brilliancy of atmosphere
about her which marks her as a prominent woman of her day, and her autobiography is charming--it
is so alive that one forgets that she is not present, telling her story!

The father of this gifted daughter was an artist of moderate ability and made portraits in
pastel, which Elizabeth, in her "Souvenirs," speaks of as good and thinks some of them worthy
of comparison with those of the famous Latour. M. Vigée was an agreeable man with much vivacity
of manner. His friends were numerous and he was able to present his daughter to people whose
acquaintance was of value to her. She was but twelve years old at the time of his death, and
he had already so encouraged her talents as to make her future comparatively easy for her.

Elizabeth passed five years of her childhood in a convent, where she constantly busied herself
in sketching everything that she saw. She tells of her intense pleasure in the use of her pencil,
and says that her passion for painting was innate and never grew less, but increased in charm
as she grew older. She claimed that it was a source of perpetual youth, and that she owed to
it her acquaintance and friendship with the most delightful men and women of Europe.

While still a young girl, Mlle. Vigée studied under Briard, Doyen, and Greuze, but Joseph Vernet
advised her to study the works of Italian and Flemish masters, and, above all, to study Nature
for herself--to follow no school or system. To this advice Mme. Le Brun attributed her success.

When sixteen years old she presented two portraits to the French Academy, and was thus early
brought to public notice.

When twenty-one she married M. Le Brun, of whom she speaks discreetly in her story of her life,
but it was well known that he was of dissipated habits and did not hesitate to spend all that
his wife could earn. When she left France, thirteen years after her marriage, she had not so
much as twenty francs, although she had earned a million!

She painted portraits of many eminent people, and was esteemed as a friend by men and women
of culture and high position. The friendship between the artist and Marie Antoinette was a
sincere and deep affection between two women, neither of whom remembered that one of them was
a queen. It was a great advantage to the artist to be thus intimately associated with her sovereign
lady. Even in the great state picture of the Queen surrounded by her children, at Versailles,
one realizes the tenderness of the painter as she lovingly reproduced her friend.

Marie Antoinette desired that Mme. Le Brun should be elected to the Academy; Vernet approved
it, and an unusual honor was shown her in being made an Academician before the completion of
her reception picture. At that time it was a great advantage to be a member of the Academy,
as no other artists were permitted to exhibit their works in the Salon of the Beaux-Arts.

Mme. Le Brun had one habit with which she allowed nothing to interfere, which was taking a
rest after her work for the day was done. She called it her "calm," and to it she attributed
a large share of her power of endurance, although it lost her many pleasures. She could not
go out to dinner or entertain at that hour. The evening was her only time for social pleasures.
But when one reads her "Souvenirs," and realizes how many notable people she met in her studio
and in evening society, it scarcely seems necessary to regret that she could not dine out!

Mme. Le Brun was at one period thought to be very extravagant, and one of her entertainments
caused endless comments. Her own account of it shows how greatly the cost was exaggerated.
She writes that on one occasion she invited twelve or fifteen friends to listen to her brother's
reading during her "calm." The poem read was the "Voyage du jeune Anacharsis en Grèce," in
which a dinner was described, and even the receipts for making various sauces were given. The
artist was seized with the idea of improvising a Greek supper.

She summoned her cook and instructed her in what had been read. Among her guests were several
unusually pretty ladies, who attired themselves in Greek costumes as nearly as the time permitted.
Mme. Le Brun retained the white blouse she wore at her work, adding a veil and a crown of flowers.
Her studio was rich in antique objects, and a dealer whom she knew loaned her cups, vases,
and lamps. All was arranged with the effect an artist knows how to produce.

As the guests arrived Mme. Le Brun added here and there an element of Grecian costume until
their number was sufficient for an effective tableau vivant. Her daughter and a little friend
were dressed as pages and bore antique vases. A canopy hung over the table, the guests were
posed in picturesque attitudes, and those who arrived later were arrested at the door of the
supper-room with surprise and delight.

It was as if they had been transported to another clime. A Greek song was chanted to the accompaniment
of a lyre, and when the honey, grapes, and other dishes were served à la Grecque, the enchantment
was complete. The poet recited odes from Anacreon and all passed off delightfully.

The fame of this novel supper was spread over Paris, and marvellous tales were told of its
magnificence and its cost. Mme. Le Brun writes: "Some ladies asked me to repeat this pleasantry.
I refused for various reasons, and several of them were disturbed by my refusal. Soon a report
that the supper had cost me twenty thousand francs was spread abroad. The King spoke of it
as a joke to the Marquis of Cubières, who fortunately had been one of the guests and was able
to convince His Majesty of the folly of such a story. Nevertheless, the modest sum of twenty
thousand at Versailles became forty thousand at Rome; at Vienna the Baroness de Strogonoff
told me that I had spent sixty thousand francs for my Greek supper; you know that at Petersburg
the price at length was fixed at eighty thousand francs, and the truth is that it cost me about
fifteen francs!"

Early in 1789, when the warnings of the horrors about to take place began to be heard, Mme.
Le Brun went to Italy. In each city that she visited she was received with great kindness and
many honors were shown her. In Florence she was invited to paint her own portrait, to be hung
in that part of the Uffizi set apart for the portraits of famous painters. Later she sent the
well-known portrait, near that of Angelica Kauffman. It is interesting to read Goethe's comparison
of the two portraits.

Speaking of Angelica's first, he writes: "It has a truer tone in the coloring, the position
is more pleasing, and the whole exhibits more correct taste and a higher spirit in art. But
the work of Le Brun shows more careful execution, has more vigor in the drawing, and more delicate
touches. It, has, moreover, a clear though somewhat exaggerated coloring. The Frenchwoman understands
the art of adornment--the headdress, the hair, the folds of lace on the bosom, all are arranged
with care and, as one might say, con amore. The piquant, handsome face, with its lively expression,
its parted lips disclosing a row of pearly teeth, presents itself to the beholder's gaze as
if coquettishly challenging his admiration, while the hand holds the pencil as in the act of
drawing.

"The picture of Angelica, with head gently inclined and a soft, intellectual melancholy pervading
the countenance, evinces higher genius, even if, in point of artistic skill, the preference
should be given to the other."

Mme. Le Brun found Rome delightful and declared that if she could forget France she should
be the happiest of women. She writes of her fellow artist: "I have been to see Angelica Kauffman,
whom I greatly desired to know. I found her very interesting, apart from her fine talent, on
account of her mind and her general culture.... She has talked much with me during the two
evenings I have passed at her house. Her manner is gentle; she is prodigiously learned, but
has no enthusiasm, which, considering my ignorance, has not electrified me.... I have seen
several of her works; her sketches please me more than her pictures, because they are of a
Titianesque color."

Mme. Le Brun received more commissions for portraits than she could find time to paint in the
three years she lived in Italy. She tells us: "Not only did I find great pleasure in painting
surrounded by so many masterpieces, but it was also necessary for me to make another fortune.
I had not a hundred francs of income. Happily I had only to choose among the grandest people
the portraits which it pleased me to paint." Her account of her experiences in Italy is very
entertaining, but at last the restlessness of the exile overcame her and impelled her to seek
other scenes. She went to Vienna and there remained three other years, making many friends
and painting industriously until the spirit of unrest drove her to seek new diversions, and
she went to Russia.

She was there received with great cordiality and remained six years--years crowded with kindness,
labor, honor, attainment, joy, and sorrow. Her daughter was the one all-absorbing passion--at
once the joy and the grief of her life. She was so charming and so gifted as to satisfy the
critical requirements of her mother's desires. In Petersburg, where the daughter was greatly
admired and caressed, the artist found herself a thousand times more happy than she had ever
been in her own triumphs.

Mme. Le Brun was so constantly occupied and the need of earning was so great with her, that
she was forced to confide her daughter to the care of others when she made her début in society.
Thus it happened that the young girl met M. Nigris, whom she afterward married. Personally
he was not agreeable to Mme. Le Brun and his position was not satisfactory to her. We can imagine
her chagrin in accepting a son-in-law who even asked her for money with which to go to church
on his wedding-day! The whole affair was most distasteful, and the marriage occurred at the
time of the death of Mme. Le Brun's mother. She speaks of it as a "time devoted to tears."

Her health suffered so much from this sadness that she tried the benefit of change of scene,
and went to Moscow. Returning to Petersburg, she determined--in spite of the remonstrances
of her friends, and the inducements offered her to remain--to go to France. She several times
interrupted her journey in order to paint portraits of persons who had heard of her fame, and
desired to have her pictures.

She reached Paris in 1801 and writes thus of her return: "I shall not attempt to express my
emotions when I was again upon the soil of France, from which I had been absent twelve years.
Fright, grief, joy possessed me, each in turn, for all these entered into the thousand varying
sentiments which swept over my soul. I wept for the friends whom I had lost upon the scaffold,
but I was about to see again those who remained. This France to which I returned had been the
scene of atrocious crimes; but this France was my Native Land!"

But the new régime was odious to the artist, and she found herself unable to be at home, even
in Paris. After a year she went to London, and remained in England three years. She detested
the climate and was not in love with the people, but she found a compensation in the society
of many French families who had fled from France as she had done.

In 1804 Mme. Nigris was in Paris and her mother returned to see her. The young woman was very
beautiful and attractive, very fond of society, entirely indifferent to her husband, and not
always wise in the choice of her companions. Mme. Le Brun, always hard at work and always having
great anxieties, at length found herself so broken in health, and so nervously fatigued that
she longed to be alone with Nature, and in 1808 she went to Switzerland. Her letters written
to the Countess Potocka at this time are added to her "Souvenirs," and reveal the very best
of her nature. Feeling the need of continued repose, she bought a house at Louveciennes, where
she spent much time. In 1818 M. Le Brun died, and six years later the deaths of her daughter
and her brother left her with no near relative in the world.

For a time she sought distractions in new scenes and visited the Touraine and other parts of
France, but though she still lived a score of years, she spent them in Paris and Louveciennes.
She had with her two nieces, who cared for her more tenderly than any one had done before.
One of these ladies was a portrait painter and profited much by the advice of Mme. Le Brun,
who wrote of this period and these friends: "They made me feel again the sentiments of a mother,
and their tender devotion diffused a great charm over my life. It is near these two dear ones
and some friends who remain to me that I hope to terminate peacefully a life which has been
wandering but calm, laborious but honorable."

During the last years of her life the most distinguished society of Paris was wont to assemble
about her--artists, litterateurs, savants, and men of the fashionable world. Here all essential
differences of opinion were laid aside and all met on common ground. Her "calm" seemed to have
influenced all her life; only good feeling and equality found a place near her, and few women
have the blessed fortune to be so sincerely mourned by a host of friends as was Elizabeth Vigée
Le Brun, dying at the age of eighty-seven.

Mme. Le Brun's works numbered six hundred and sixty portraits--fifteen genre or figure pictures
and about two hundred landscapes painted from sketches made on her journeys. Her portraits
included those of the sovereigns and royal families of all Europe, as well as the most famous
authors, artists, singers, and the learned men in Church and State.

As an artist M. Charles Blanc thus esteems her: "In short, Mme. Le Brun belonged entirely to
the eighteenth century--I wish to say to that period of our time which rested itself suddenly
at David. While she followed the counsels of Vernet, her pencil had a certain suppleness, and
her brush a force; but she too often attempted to imitate Greuze in her later works and she
weakened the resemblance to her subjects by abusing the regard noyé (cloudy or indistinct effect).
She was too early in vogue to make all the necessary studies, and she too often contented herself
with an ingenuity a little too manifest. Without judging her as complacently as the Academy
formerly judged her, we owe her an honorable place, because in spite of revolutions and reforms
she continued to her last day the light, spiritual, and French Art of Watteau, Nattier, and
Fragonard."

<b>VIGRI, CATERINA DE.</b> Lippo Dalmasii was much admired by Malvasia, who not only extols
his pictures, but his spirit as well, and represents him as following his art as a religion,
beginning and ending his daily work with prayer. Lippo is believed to have been the master
of Caterina de Vigri, and the story of her life is in harmony with the influence of such a teacher.

She is the only woman artist who has been canonized; and in the Convent of the Corpus Domini,
in Bologna, which she founded, she is known as "La Santa," and as a special patron of the Fine
Arts.

Caterina was of a noble family of Ferrara, where she was born in 1413. She died when fifty
years old; and so great was the reverence for her memory that her remains were preserved, and
may still be seen in a chapel of her convent. There are few places in that ever wonderful Italy
of such peculiar interest as this chapel, where sits, clothed in a silken robe, with a crown
of gold on the head, the incorrupt body of a woman who died four hundred and forty years ago.
The body is quite black, while the nails are still pink. She holds a book and a sceptre. Around
her, in the well-lighted chapel, are several memorials of her life: the viola on which she
played, and a manuscript in her exquisite chirography, also a service book illuminated by Caterina,
and, still more important, one of her pictures, a "Madonna and Child," inserted in the wall
on the left of the chapel, which is admirable for the beauty of expression in the face of the
Holy Mother.

We cannot trace Caterina's artist life step by step, but she doubtless worked with the same
spirit of consecration and prayer as did that Beato whom we call Angelico, in his Florentine
convent, a century earlier.

Caterina executed many miniatures, and her easel pictures were not large. These were owned
by private families. She is known to us by two pictures of "St. Ursula folding her Robe about
her Companions." One is in the Bologna Gallery, the other in the Academy in Venice. The first
is on a wooden panel, and was painted when the artist was thirty-nine years old. The Saint
is represented as unnaturally tall, the figures of her virgins being very small. The mantle
and robe of St. Ursula are of rich brocade ornamented with floral designs, while on each side
of her is a white flag, on which is a red cross. The face of the saint is so attractive that
one forgets the elongation of her figure. There is a delicacy in the execution, combined with
a freedom and firmness of handling fully equal to the standard of her school and time. Many
honors were paid to the memory of Caterina de Vigri. She was chosen as the protectress of Academies
and Art Institutions, and in the eighteenth century a medal was coined, on which she is represented
as painting on a panel held by an angel. How few human beings are thus honored three centuries
after death!

<b>VINCENT, MME.</b> See Labille.

<b>VISSCHER, ANNA AND MARIA.</b> These daughters of the celebrated Dutch engraver were known
as "the Dutch Muses." They made their best reputation by their etchings on glass, but they
were also well known for their writing of both poetry and prose. They were associated with
the scholars of their time and were much admired.

<b>VOLKMAR, ANTONIE ELIZABETH CAECILIA.</b> Born in Berlin, 1827. She studied with Schroder
in her native city, with L. Cogniet in Paris, and later in Italy. She returned to Berlin, where
she painted portraits and genre subjects. Her picture of the "Grandmother telling Stories"
is in the Museum of Stettin. Among her works are "An Artist's Travels" a "German Emigrant,"
and "School Friends."

<b>VONNOH, BESSIE POTTER.</b> Bronze medal, Paris Exposition, 1900; Second Prize at Tennessee
Centennial. Honorable mention at Buffalo Exposition, 1901. Member of the National Sculpture
Society and National Arts Club. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, 1872.

This sculptor is a pupil of the Art Institute, Chicago. Among her best works are "A Young Mother";
"Twin Sisters"; "His First Journey"; "Girl Reading," etc.

In the Century Magazine, September, 1897, Arthur Hoeber wrote: "There were shown at the Society
of American Artists in New York, in the Spring of 1896, some statuettes of graceful young womanhood,
essentially modern in conception, singularly naïve in treatment, refined, and withal intensely
personal.... While the disclosure is by no means novel, Miss Potter makes us aware that in
the daily prosaic life about us there are possibilities conventional yet attractive, simple,
but containing much of suggestion, waiting only the sympathetic touch to be responsive if the
proper chord is struck."

This author also notices the affiliation of this young woman with the efforts of the Tanagra
workers, and says: "But if the inspiration of the young woman is evident, her work can in no
way be called imitative."

<b>VOS, MARIA.</b> Born in Amsterdam, 1824. Pupil of P. Kiers. Her pictures were principally
of still-life, two of which are seen in the Amsterdam Museum.

<b>WAGNER, MARIA DOROTHEA</b>; family name Dietrich. 1728-1792. The gallery of Wiesbaden has
two of her landscapes, as has also the Museum at Gotha. "Der Mühlengrund," representing a valley
with a brook and a mill, is in the Dresden Gallery.

<b>WARD, MISS E.</b> This sculptor has a commission to make a statue of G. R. Clark for the
St. Louis Exposition.

[No reply to circular.]

