A few readers perhaps, in looking over these hints, will wonder how it could have been practicable,
without tediousness, or remitting in any degree the interest of the story, to have filled,
from these slight sketches, a number of pages, more considerable than those which have been
already presented. But, in reality, these hints, simple as they are, are pregnant with passion
and distress. It is the refuge of barren authors only, to crowd their fictions with so great
a number of events, as to suffer no one of them to sink into the reader's mind. It is the province
of true genius to develop events, to discover their capabilities, to ascertain the different
passions and sentiments with which they are fraught, and to diversify them with incidents,
that give reality to the picture, and take a hold upon the mind of a reader of taste, from
which they can never be loosened. It was necessary for her, to place in a striking point of
view, evils that are too frequently overlooked, and to drag into light those details of oppression,
of which the grosser and more insensible part of mankind make little account.

THE END.

FOOTNOTES:

[159-A] To understand these minutes, it is necessary the reader should consider each of them
as setting out from the same point in the story, viz. the point to which it is brought down
in the preceding chapter.

[166-A] See author's preface.

LESSONS.

ADVERTISEMENT,

BY THE EDITOR.

THE following pages will, I believe, be judged by every reader of taste to have been worth
preserving, among the other testimonies the author left behind her, of her genius and the soundness
of her understanding. To such readers I leave the task of comparing these lessons, with other
works of the same nature previously published. It is obvious that the author has struck out
a path of her own, and by no means intrenched upon the plans of her predecessors.

It may however excite surprise in some persons to find these papers annexed to the conclusion
of a novel. All I have to offer on this subject, consists in the following considerations:

First, something is to be allowed for the difficulty of arranging the miscellaneous papers
upon very different subjects, which will frequently constitute an author's posthumous works.

       *       *       *       *       *

Secondly, the small portion they occupy in the present volume, will perhaps be accepted as
an apology, by such good-natured readers (if any such there are), to whom the perusal of them
shall be a matter of perfect indifference.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thirdly, the circumstance which determined me in annexing them to the present work, was the
slight association (in default of a strong one) between the affectionate and pathetic manner
in which Maria Venables addresses her infant, in the Wrongs of Woman; and the agonising and
painful sentiment with which the author originally bequeathed these papers, as a legacy for
the benefit of her child.

LESSONS.

The first book of a series which I intended to have written for my unfortunate girl[175-A].

LESSON I.

CAT. Dog. Cow. Horse. Sheep. Pig. Bird. Fly.

Man. Boy. Girl. Child.

Head. Hair. Face. Nose. Mouth. Chin. Neck. Arms. Hand. Leg. Foot. Back. Breast.

House. Wall. Field. Street. Stone. Grass.

Bed. Chair. Door. Pot. Spoon. Knife. Fork. Plate. Cup. Box. Boy. Bell.

Tree. Leaf. Stick. Whip. Cart. Coach.

Frock. Hat. Coat. Shoes. Shift. Cap.

Bread. Milk. Tea. Meat. Drink. Cake.

LESSON II.

Come. Walk. Run. Go. Jump. Dance. Ride. Sit. Stand. Play. Hold. Shake. Speak. Sing. Cry. Laugh.
Call. Fall.

Day. Night. Sun. Moon. Light. Dark. Sleep. Wake.

Wash. Dress. Kiss. Comb.

Fire. Hot. Burn. Wind. Rain. Cold.

Hurt. Tear. Break. Spill.

Book. See. Look.

Sweet. Good. Clean.

Gone. Lost. Hide. Keep. Give. Take.

One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten.

White. Black. Red. Blue. Green. Brown.

LESSON III.

STROKE the cat. Play with the Dog. Eat the bread. Drink the milk. Hold the cup. Lay down the knife.

Look at the fly. See the horse. Shut the door. Bring the chair. Ring the bell. Get your book.

Hide your face. Wipe your nose. Wash your hands. Dirty hands. Why do you cry? A clean mouth.
Shake hands. I love you. Kiss me now. Good girl.

The bird sings. The fire burns. The cat jumps. The dog runs. The bird flies. The cow lies down.
The man laughs. The child cries.

LESSON IV.

LET me comb your head. Ask Betty to wash your face. Go and see for some bread. Drink milk,
if you are dry. Play on the floor with the ball. Do not touch the ink; you will black your hands.

What do you want to say to me? Speak slow, not so fast. Did you fall? You will not cry, not
you; the baby cries. Will you walk in the fields?

LESSON V.

COME to me, my little girl. Are you tired of playing? Yes. Sit down and rest yourself, while
I talk to you.

Have you seen the baby? Poor little thing. O here it comes. Look at him. How helpless he is.
Four years ago you were as feeble as this very little boy.

See, he cannot hold up his head. He is forced to lie on his back, if his mamma do not turn
him to the right or left side, he will soon begin to cry. He cries to tell her, that he is
tired with lying on his back.

LESSON VI.

PERHAPS he is hungry. What shall we give him to eat? Poor fellow, he cannot eat. Look in his
mouth, he has no teeth.

How did you do when you were a baby like him? You cannot tell. Do you want to know? Look then
at the dog, with her pretty puppy. You could not help yourself as well as the puppy. You could
only open your mouth, when you were lying, like William, on my knee. So I put you to my breast,
and you sucked, as the puppy sucks now, for there was milk enough for you.

LESSON VII.

WHEN you were hungry, you began to cry, because you could not speak. You were seven months
without teeth, always sucking. But after you got one, you began to gnaw a crust of bread. It
was not long before another came pop. At ten months you had four pretty white teeth, and you
used to bite me. Poor mamma! Still I did not cry, because I am not a child, but you hurt me
very much. So I said to papa, it is time the little girl should eat. She is not naughty, yet
she hurts me. I have given her a crust of bread, and I must look for some other milk.

The cow has got plenty, and her jumping calf eats grass very well. He has got more teeth than
my little girl. Yes, says papa, and he tapped you on the cheek, you are old enough to learn
to eat? Come to me, and I will teach you, my little dear, for you must not hurt poor mamma,
who has given you her milk, when you could not take any thing else.

LESSON VIII.

YOU were then on the carpet, for you could not walk well. So when you were in a hurry, you
used to run quick, quick, quick, on your hands and feet, like the dog.

Away you ran to papa, and putting both your arms round his leg, for your hands were not big
enough, you looked up at him, and laughed. What did this laugh say, when you could not speak?
Cannot you guess by what you now say to papa?--Ah! it was, Play with me, papa!--play with me!

Papa began to smile, and you knew that the smile was always--Yes. So you got a ball, and papa
threw it along the floor--Roll--roll--roll; and you ran after it again--and again. How pleased
you were. Look at William, he smiles; but you could laugh loud--Ha! ha! ha!--Papa laughed louder
than the little girl, and rolled the ball still faster.

Then he put the ball on a chair, and you were forced to take hold of the back, and stand up
to reach it. At last you reached too far, and down you fell: not indeed on your face, because
you put out your hands. You were not much hurt; but the palms of your hands smarted with the
pain, and you began to cry, like a little child.

It is only very little children who cry when they are hurt; and it is to tell their mamma,
that something is the matter with them. Now you can come to me, and say, Mamma, I have hurt
myself. Pray rub my hand: it smarts. Put something on it, to make it well. A piece of rag,
to stop the blood. You are not afraid of a little blood--not you. You scratched your arm with
a pin: it bled a little; but it did you no harm. See, the skin is grown over it again.

LESSON IX.

TAKE care not to put pins in your mouth, because they will stick in your throat, and give you
pain. Oh! you cannot think what pain a pin would give you in your throat, should it remain
there: but, if you by chance swallow it, I should be obliged to give you, every morning, something
bitter to drink. You never tasted any thing so bitter! and you would grow very sick. I never
put pins in my mouth; but I am older than you, and know how to take care of myself.

My mamma took care of me, when I was a little girl, like you. She bade me never put any thing
in my mouth, without asking her what it was.

When you were a baby, with no more sense than William, you put every thing in your mouth to
gnaw, to help your teeth to cut through the skin. Look at the puppy, how he bites that piece
of wood. William presses his gums against my finger. Poor boy! he is so young, he does not
know what he is doing. When you bite any thing, it is because you are hungry.

LESSON X.

SEE how much taller you are than William. In four years you have learned to eat, to walk, to
talk. Why do you smile? You can do much more, you think: you can wash your hands and face.
Very well. I should never kiss a dirty face. And you can comb your head with the pretty comb
you always put by in your own drawer. To be sure, you do all this to be ready to take a walk
with me. You would be obliged to stay at home, if you could not comb your own hair. Betty is
busy getting the dinner ready, and only brushes William's hair, because he cannot do it for
himself.

Betty is making an apple-pye. You love an apple-pye; but I do not bid you make one. Your hands
are not strong enough to mix the butter and flour together; and you must not try to pare the
apples, because you cannot manage a great knife.

Never touch the large knives: they are very sharp, and you might cut your finger to the bone.
You are a little girl, and ought to have a little knife. When you are as tall as I am, you
shall have a knife as large as mine; and when you are as strong as I am, and have learned to
manage it, you will not hurt yourself.

You can trundle a hoop, you say; and jump over a stick. O, I forgot!--and march like the men
in the red coats, when papa plays a pretty tune on the fiddle.

LESSON XI.

WHAT, you think that you shall soon be able to dress yourself entirely? I am glad of it: I
have something else to do. You may go, and look for your frock in the drawer; but I will tie
it, till you are stronger. Betty will tie it, when I am busy.

I button my gown myself: I do not want a maid to assist me, when I am dressing. But you have
not yet got sense enough to do it properly, and must beg somebody to help you, till you are older.

Children grow older and wiser at the same time. William is not able to take a piece of meat,
because he has not got the sense which would make him think that, without teeth, meat would
do him harm. He cannot tell what is good for him.

