"My seat was, for two years, by his side, and it would have scarcely more surprised me to miss
one of the marble columns of the Hall from its pedestal than to see his chair empty. * * *
I shall, perhaps, be pardoned for introducing here a slight personal recollection, which serves,
in some degree, to illustrate his habits. The sessions of the last two days of (I think) the
twenty-third Congress, were prolonged, the one for nineteen, and the other for seventeen hours.
At the close of the last day's session, he remained in the hall of the House the last seated
member of the body. One after another, the members had gone home; many of them for hours. The
hall--brilliantly lighted up, and gaily attended, as was, and perhaps is still, the custom
at the beginning the last evening of a session--had become cold, dark, and cheerless. Of the
members who remained, to prevent the public business from dying for want of a quorum, most
but himself were sinking from exhaustion, although they had probably taken their meals at the
usual hours, in the course of the day. After the adjournment, I went up to Mr. Adams' seat,
to join company with him, homeward; and as I knew he came to the House at eight o'clock in
the morning, and it was then past midnight, I expressed a hope that he had taken some refreshment
in the course of the day, He said he had not left his seat; but holding up a bit of hard bread
in his fingers, gave me to understand in what way he had sustained nature." [Footnote: Edward
Everett.]

The following reminiscence will further illustrate Mr. Adams' habits of industry and endurance
at a later day, as well as show his views in regard to the famous "Expunging Resolution."

"On a cold and dreary morning, in the month of January, 1837, I went to the capitol of the
United States, at a very early hour, to write out a very long speech I had reported for an
honorable gentleman, who wished to look well in print; and on entering the hall of the House
of Representatives, I found Mr. Adams, as early as the hour was, in his seat, busily engaged
in writing. He and myself were the only persons present; even the industrious Mr. Follansbee,
the then doorkeeper, had not made his appearance, with his assistants and pages, to distribute
copies of the journal and the usual documents.

"As I made it a rule never to speak to Mr. Adams, unless he spoke first, I said nothing; but
took my seat in the reporters' gallery, and went to work. I had written about half an hour,
when the venerable statesman appeared at my desk, and was pleased to say that I was a very
industrious man. I thanked him for the compliment, and, in return, remarked, that, as industrious
as I might be, I could not keep pace with him, 'for,' said I, 'I found you here, sir, when
I came in.'

"'I believe I was a little early, sir,' he replied; 'but, as there is to be a closing debate
to-day, in the Senate, on the expunging resolution, which I feel inclined to hear, I thought
I would come down at an unusual hour, this morning, and dispatch a little writing before the
Senate was called to order.'

"'Do you think the expunging resolution will be disposed of today?' I inquired.

"'I understand it will,' he rejoined. 'I hope so, at least,' he added, 'for I think the country
has already become weary of it, and is impatient for a decision. It has already absorbed more
time than should have been devoted to it.'

"'It will pass, I suppose, sir?'

"'Oh, certainly; and by a very decided majority. The administration is too strong for the opposition;
and the affair will call up a strict party vote. Of course Mr. Clay's resolution will be expunged,
and the journal will not be violated.'

"I was somewhat surprised at the remark, and, in return, observed that I had always understood
that it was on the constitutional ground, that the expunging process could not be effected
without destroying the journal, that the opponents of the measure had based themselves.

"'It is true, sir, that that has been the grave and somewhat tenable argument in the Senate;
but it is a fallacy, after all,' he replied. 'The constitution, sir, it is true, renders it
imperative on both Houses to keep a correct journal of its proceedings; and all this can be
done, and any portion of it may be expunged, without violating that instrument. For instance,
sir, a resolution is adopted to-day, is entered on the journal, and to-morrow is expunged--and
still the journal remains correct, and the constitution is not violated. For the act by which
the expungation is effected is recorded on the journal; the expunged resolution becomes a matter
of record, and thus everything stands fair and correct. The constitution is a sacred document,
and should not be violated; but how often is it strictly adhered to, to the very letter? There
are, sir, some men in the world who make great parade about their devotion to the "dear constitution,"--men,
sir, who make its sacred character a hobby, and who, nevertheless, are perfectly reckless of
its violation, if the ends of party are to be accomplished by its abjuration.'

"There was a degree of sarcasm blended with his enunciation of the 'dear constitution,' which
induced me to think it possible that he intended some personal allusion when he repeated the
words. In this I might, and might not, have erred.

"'In what way, Mr. Adams,' I inquired, 'is this expunging process to be accomplished? Is the
objectionable resolution to be erased from the journal with a pen; or is the leaf that contains
it to be cut out?'

"'Neither process is to be resorted to, as I understand it,' he replied. 'The resolution will
remain in the book; black lines will be drawn around it, and across it from right angles, and
the word "expunged," will be written on the face of it. It will, to all intents and purposes,
still stand on the face of the book. There are precedents in parliamentary journalism for the
guidance of the Senate, and I suppose they will be adopted.'

"He then proceeded to give me a very graphic and interesting description of an expunging process
that took place in the British Parliament in the reign of James the First, of England, which
would repeat, if time and space allowed. He detained me a long time, in narrating precedents,
and commenting on them; and then abruptly bringing the subject to a close, left me to pursue
my labors.

"Soon after the House had been called to order, immediately after the chaplain had said his
prayers--for that was a ceremonial that Mr. Adams always observed--I saw him leave his seat,
and proceed, as I supposed, to the Senate chamber. After an hour or two had elapsed, I went
into the Senate, and there found him, standing outside of the bar, listening, with all imaginable
attention, to Mr. Felix Grundy, who was delivering himself of some brief remarks he had to
utter on the subject.

"At nine o'clock in the evening, as I fumbled my way through the badly-lighted rotunda, having
just escaped from a caucus that had been holding 'a secret session,' in the room of the committee
on public lands, I descried a light issuing from the vestibule of the Senate chamber, which
apprized me that 'the most dignified body on earth' was still in session. Impelled by a natural
curiosity, I proceeded towards the council chamber of the right reverend signors; and, just
as I reached the door, Mr. Adams stepped out. I inquired if the resolution had been disposed of.

"'No, sir,' he replied; 'nor is it probable that it will be to-night! A Senator from North
Carolina is yet on the floor; and, as it does not appear likely that he will yield it very
soon, and as I am somewhat faint and weary, I think I shall go home.'

"The night was very stormy. Snow was falling fast; the moon, which had

                      '--not yet fill'd her horns,'

had receded beneath the western horizon; and, as the capitol was but sadly lighted, I offered
my services to the venerable sage of Quincy, and at the same time asked leave to conduct him
to his dwelling.

"'Sir,' said he, 'I am indebted to you for your proffered kindness; but I need not the service
of anyone. I am somewhat advanced in life, but not yet, by the blessing of God, infirm; or
what Doctor Johnson would call "superfluous;" and you may recollect what old Adam says in the
play of "As you like it:"

          "For in my youth I never did apply
           Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.'"

"For the first time in my life, I found Mr. Adams a little inclined to be facetious; and I
was glad of it--for it was to me a kind of assurance that my presence was not absolutely unwelcome.

"The salutation being over, and Mr. Adams having consented that I should see him down the steps
of the capitol, I proceeded onward, and soon found myself, with my revered convoy, in the vicinity
of the western gate of the capitol grounds 'The wind whistled a dismal tale,' as we trudged
onward, looking in vain for a cab; and the snow and sleet, which, early in the day, had mantled
the earth, was now some twelve inches deep on Pennsylvania avenue. I insisted on going onward;
but Mr. Adams objected, and bidding me good night somewhat unceremoniously, told me, almost
in as many words, that my farther attendance was unwelcome.

"As I left him, he drew his 'Boston wrapper' still closer around him, hitched up his mittens,
and with elastic step breasted a wintry storm that might have repelled even the more elastic
movement of juvenility, and wended up the avenue. Although I cannot irreverently say that he

               'Whistled as he went, for want of thought,'

I fancy that his mind was so deeply imbued with the contemplation of affairs of state, and
especially in contemplating the expunging resolution, that he arrived at his home long before
he was aware that he had threaded the distance between the capitol and the Presidential square."
[Footnote: Reminiscences of the late John Quincy Adams, by an Old Colony Man.--New York Atlas.]

Although elected to the House of Representatives as a Whig, and usually acting with that party,
yet Mr. Adams would never acknowledge that fealty to party could justify a departure from the
conscientious discharge of duty. He went with his party as far as he believed his party was
right and its proceedings calculated to promote the welfare of the country. But no party claims,
no smiles nor frowns, could induce him to sanction any measure which he believed prejudicial
to the interest of the people. Hence, during his congressional career, the Whigs occasionally
found him a decided opposer of their policy and measures, on questions where he deemed they
had mistaken the true course. In this he was but true to his principles, character, and whole
past history. It was not that he loved his political party or friends less, but that he loved
what he viewed as conducive to the welfare of the nation, more.

The same principle of action governed him in reference to his political opponents. In general
he threw his influence against the administration of Gen. Jackson, under a sincere conviction
that its policy was injurious to the welfare of our common country. But to every measure which
he could sanction, he did not hesitate to yield the support of all his energies.

An instance of this description occurred in relation to the treaty of indemnity with France.
For nearly forty years, negotiations had been pending in vain with the French Government, to
procure an indemnity for spoliations of American commerce, during the French Revolution and
Republic. On the 4th of July, 1831, Mr. Rives, the American Minister to France, succeeded in
concluding a treaty with that country, securing to American merchants an indemnity of five
millions of dollars. But although the treaty was duly ratified by both Governments, the French
Chamber of Deputies obstinately refused, for several years, to vote an appropriation of money
to fulfil its stipulations. In 1835, Gen. Jackson determined on strong measures to bring the
French Government to the discharge of its obligations. He accordingly sent a message to Congress,
recommending, in the event of further delay on the part of France, that letters of marque and
reprisal be issued against the commerce of France, and at the same time instructed Mr. Edward
Livingston, our Minister at that day at the Court of St. Cloud, to demand his passports, and
retire to London. In all these steps, which resulted in bringing France to a speedy fulfillment
of the treaty, Mr. Adams yielded his unreserved support to the administration. He believed
Gen. Jackson, in resorting to compulsory measures, was pursuing a course called for alike by
the honor and the interest of the country, and he did not hesitate to give him a cordial support,
notwithstanding he was a political opponent. In a speech made by Mr. Adams on the subject,
in the House of Representatives, he said:--

"Sir, if we do not unite with the President of the United States in an effort to compel the
French Chamber of Deputies to carry out the provisions of this treaty, we shall become the
scorn, the contempt, the derision and the reproach of all mankind! Sir, this treaty has been
ratified on both sides of the ocean; it has received the sign manual of the sovereign of France,
through His Imperial Majesty's principal Minister of State; it has been ratified by the Senate
of this Republic; it has been sanctioned by Almighty God; and still we are told, in a voice
potential, in the other wing of this capitol, that the arrogance of France,--nay, sir, not
of France, but of her Chamber of Deputies--the insolence of the French Chambers, must be submitted
to, and we must come down to the lower degradation of re-opening negotiations to attain that
which has already been acknowledged to be our due! Sir, is this a specimen of your boasted
chivalry? Is this an evidence of the existence of that heroic valor which has so often led
our arms on to glory and immortality? Re-open negotiation, sir, with France? Do it, and soon
you will find your flag insulted, dishonored, and trodden in the dust by the pigmy States of
Asia and Africa--by the very banditti of the earth. Sir, the only negotiations, says the President
of the United States, that he would encounter, should be at the cannon's mouth!"

The effect produced by this speech was tremendous on all sides; and, for a while, the House
was lost in the excitement it afforded. The venerable orator took his seat; and, as he sank
into it, the very walls shook with the thundering applause he had awakened.

On the 28th of June, 1836, the venerable ex-President JAMES MADISON, departed life at Montpelier,
Va., in the eighty-sixth year of his age. He had filled a prominent place in the history of
our Government, from its first organization. As a statesman, he was unsurpassed in critical
acumen, in profundity of knowledge, in an understanding of constitutional Government, and its
adaptation to the rights and interests of the people. His writings are an invaluable legacy
to his countrymen, and will be studied and quoted for ages to come. "His public acts were a
noble commentary upon his political principles--his private life an illustration of the purest
virtues of the heart."

When a message from the President, announcing the death of Mr. Madison, was received in the
House of Representatives, Mr. Adams arose and said:--

"By the general sense of the House, it is with perfect propriety that the delegation from the
commonwealth of Virginia have taken the lead in the melancholy duty of proposing the measures
suitable to be adopted as testimonials of the veneration due, from the Legislature of the Union,
to the memory of the departed patriot and sage, the native of their soil, and the citizen of
their community.

"It is not without some hesitation, and some diffidence, that I have risen to offer in my own
behalf, and in that of my colleagues upon this floor, and of our common constituents, to join
our voice, at once of mourning and exultation, at the event announced to both Houses of Congress,
by the message from the President of the United States--of mourning at the bereavement which
has befallen our common country, by the decease of one of her most illustrious sons--of exultation
at the spectacle afforded to the observation of the civilized world, and for the emulation
of after times, by the close of a life of usefulness and of glory, after forty years of service
in trusts of the highest dignity and splendor that a confiding country could bestow, succeeded
by twenty years of retirement and private life, not inferior, in the estimation of the virtuous
and the wise, to the honors of the highest station that ambition can ever attain.

"Of the public life of James Madison what could I say that is not deeply impressed upon the
memory and upon the heart of every one within the sound of my voice? Of his private life, what
but must meet an echoing shout of applause from every voice within this hall? Is it not in
a pre-eminent degree by emanation from his mind, that we are assembled here as the representatives
of the people and the States of this Union? Is it not transcendently by his exertions that
we all address each other here by the endearing appellation of countrymen and fellow-citizens?
Of that band of benefactors of the human race, the founders of the Constitution of the United
States, James Madison is the last who has gone to his reward. Their glorious work has survived
them all. They have transmitted the precious bond of union to us, now entirely a succeeding
generation to them. May it never cease to be a voice of admonition to us, of our duty to transmit
the inheritance unimpaired to our children of the rising age.

"Of the personal relations of this great man, which gave rise to the long career of public
service in which twenty years of my own life has been engaged, it becomes me not to speak.
The fulness of the heart must be silent, even to the suppression of the overflowings of gratitude
and affection." To the year 1835, the career of Mr. Adams in Congress had been marked by no
signal display of characteristics peculiar to himself, other than such as the world had long
been familiar with in his previous history. He had succeeded in maintaining his reputation
for patriotism, devotion to principle, political sagacity and wisdom, and his fame as a public
debater and eloquent speaker. But no new development of qualities unrecognized before had been
made. From that year forward, however, he placed himself in a new attitude before the country,
and entered upon a career which eclipsed all his former services, and added a lustre to his
fame which will glow in unrivalled splendor as long as human freedom is prized on earth. It
can hardly be necessary to state that allusion is here made to his advocacy of the Right of
Petition, and his determined hostility to slavery. At an age when most men would leave the
stormy field of public life, and retire to the quiet seclusion of domestic comfort, these great
topics inspirited Mr. Adams with a renewed vigor. With all the ardor and zeal of youth, he
placed himself in the front rank of the battle which ensued, plunged into the very midst of
the melee, and, with a dauntless courage, that won the plaudits of the world, held aloft the
banner of freedom in the Halls of Congress, when other hearts quailed and fell back! He led
"the forlorn hope" to the assault of the bulwarks of slavery, when the most sanguine believed
his almost superhuman labors would be all in vain. In these contests a spirit blazed out from
his noble soul which electrified the nation with admiration.

The first act in the career of Mr. Adams as a Member of Congress, was in relation to slavery.
On the 12th of December, 1831, it being the second week of the first session of the twenty-second
Congress, he presented fifteen petitions, all numerously signed, from sundry inhabitants of
Pennsylvania, praying for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia.
In presenting these petitions, Mr. Adams remarked, that although the petitioners were not of
his immediate constituents, yet he did not deem himself at liberty to decline presenting their
petitions, the transmission of which to him manifested a confidence in him for which he was
bound to be grateful. From a letter which had accompanied the petitions, he inferred that they
came from members of the Society of Friends or Quakers; a body of men, he declared, than whom
there was no more respectable and worthy class of citizens--none who more strictly made their
lives a commentary on their professions; a body of men comprising, in his firm opinion, as
much of human virtue, and as little of human infirmity, as any other equal number of men, of
any denomination, upon the face of the globe.

The petitions for the abolition of the slave trade in the District of Columbia, Mr. Adams considered
relating to a proper subject for the legislation of Congress. But he did not give his countenance
to those which prayed for the abolition of slavery in that District. Not that he would approbate
the system of slavery; for he was, and in fact had been through life, its most determined foe.
But he believed the time had not then arrived for the discussion of that subject in Congress.
It was his settled conviction that a premature agitation of slavery in the national councils
would greatly retard, rather than facilitate, the abolition of that giant evil--"as the most
salutary medicines," he declared in illustration, "unduly administered, were the most deadly
of poisons."

The position taken by Mr. Adams, in presenting these petitions, was evidently misunderstood
by many, and especially by Abolitionists. They construed it into a disposition on his part
to sanction, or at least to succumb unresistingly, to the inhumanity and enormity of the slave
institution. In this conclusion they signally erred. Mr. Adams, by birth, education, all the
associations of his life, and the fixed principles of his moral and political character, was
an opposer of slavery in every form. No man felt more keenly the wretched absurdity of professing
to base our Government on the "self-evident truth, that all men are created equal, and endowed
by their Creator with an unalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness"--of
proclaiming our Union the abode of liberty, the "home of the free," the asylum of the oppressed--while
holding in our midst millions of fellow-beings manacled in hopeless bondage! No man was more
anxious to correct this disgraceful misnomer, and wipe away its dark stain from our national
escutcheon at the earliest practicable moment. But he was a statesman of profound knowledge
and far-reaching sagacity. He possessed the rare quality of being able to "bide his time" in
all enterprizes. Great as he felt the enormity of American slavery to be, he would not, in
seeking to remove it, select a time so unseasonable, and adopt measures so unwise, as would
result, Samson-like, in removing the pillars of our great political fabric, and crushing the
glorious Union, formed by the wisdom and cemented by the blood of our Revolutionary Fathers,
into a mass of ruins.

Believing there was a time to withhold and a time to strike, he would patiently wait until
the sentiment of the American people became sufficiently ripened, under the increasing light
and liberality of the age, to permit slavery to be lawfully and peaceably removed, while the
Union should remain unweakened and untouched--the pride of our hearts, the admiration of the
world. Hence, in his early career, he saw no propitious moment for such a work. While discharging
the duties of U. S. Senator, Secretary of State, and President, an attempt in that direction
would have resulted in an aggravation of the evils of slavery, and a strengthening of the institution.
Nor on first entering Congress did he conceive the time to be fully come to engage in that
agitation of the momentous subject, which, when once commenced in earnest, would never cease
until either slavery would be abolished, as far as Congress possessed constitutional power,
or the Union become rent in twain! But he evidently saw that time was at hand--even at the
door--and he prepared himself for the contest.

In 1835, the people of Texas took up arms in open rebellion against the Government of Mexico.
That Province had been settled chiefly by emigrants from the Southern and Southwestern States.
Many of them had taken their slaves with them. But the Mexican Government, to their enduring
honor be it said, abolished slavery throughout that Republic. The ostensible object of the
Texian insurrection was to resist certain schemes of usurpation alleged against Santa Anna,
at that time President of Mexico. At the present day, however, after having witnessed the entire
progress and consummation of the scheme, it is abundantly evident, that from the beginning
there was a deliberate and well-digested plan to re-establish slavery in Texas--annex that
province to the United States--and thus immensely increase the slave territory and influence
in the Union.

At the first blast of the Texian bugle, thousands of volunteers from the slaveholding States
rushed to the standard of "the lone star." Agents were sent to the United States to create
an interest in behalf of Texas--the most inflammatory appeals were made to the people of the
Union--and armed bodies of American citizens were openly formed in the South, and transported
without concealment to the seat of the insurrection. President Jackson reminded the inhabitants
of the United States of their obligations to observe neutrality in the contest between Mexico
and its rebellious province. At the same time, Gen. Gaines, with a body of U. S. troops, was
ordered to take up a position within the borders of Texas. The avowed object of this movement
was to protect the people of the Southwestern frontiers from the incursions of Indian tribes
in the employment of Mexico. But the presence of such a body of troops could not but exert
an influence favorable to the measures and objects of Texas; and besides, it afterwards appeared
the Indians had no disposition to take sides with Mexico, or to make any depredations on the
territories of the United States. A call was made on Congress for an appropriation of a million
of dollars to carry on these military operations, the entire tendency of which was to encourage
Texas in its attempt to throw off the Mexican allegiance and re-establish slavery.

The source from whence the authorities of Texas were confidently looking for assistance, and
the ulterior object at which they were aiming in their insurrection--viz.: annexation to the
United States, and thus adding territory and strength to the institution of slavery,--are clearly
revealed in the following extracts from a letter addressed by Gen. Houston, commander of the
Texian forces, to Gen. Dunlap, of Nashville, Tenn:--

                                         "Near Sabine, July, 2, 1836.
"To GEN. DUNLAP:
SIR:--Your favor of the 1st of June reached me last evening. I regret so
much delay will necessarily result before you can reach us. We will need
your aid, and that speedily. The enemy, in large numbers, are reported to
be in Texas. * * * * * The army with which they first entered Texas is
broken up and dispersed by desertion and other causes. If they get another
army of the extent proposed, it must be composed of new recruits, and men
pressed into service. They will not possess the mechanical efficiency of
discipline which gives the Mexican troops the only advantage they have.
They will easily be routed by a very inferior force. For a portion of that
force, we shall be obliged to look to the United States! It cannot reach
us too soon. There is but one feeling in Texas, in my opinion, and that
is, to establish the independence of Texas, and TO BE ATTACHED TO THE
UNITED STATES! * * * * * March as speedily as possible, with all the aid
you can bring, and I doubt not but you will be gratified with your
reception and situation."

The whole plan succeeded beyond the anticipation of its most sanguine projectors. Aided by
men and means from the United States, Texas established its independence--organized a government--incorporated
slavery into its constitution so thoroughly as to guard against the remotest attempt ever to
remove it--and by a process unsurpassed in the annals of political intrigue, in due time became
annexed to the North American Union. In this accession of a territory from which several large
States will eventually be carved out, the slave power of the United States obtained a signal
advantage, of which it will not be backward to avail itself in the time of its need. A faithful
history of this entire movement is yet to be written.

Mr. Adams, with his well-known and long-tried sagacity, saw at a glance the whole design of
the originators of the Texas insurrection. While most people were averse to the belief that
a project was seriously on foot to sever a large and free province from the Mexican Republic
and annex it to the Union as slave territory, he read the design in legible characters from
the beginning. In a speech made in the House of Representatives, in May, 1836, in reference
to the call for a million of dollars, for purposes already stated, Mr. Adams unriddled the
Texian project with the vision of a prophet.

"Have we not seen American citizens," said Mr. Adams, "going from all parts of the country
to carry on the war of this province against the united Government of Mexico? Who were those
who fell at Alamo? Who are now fighting under the command of the hero [Footnote: General Houston.]
of Texian fame? And have we not been called upon in this House, to recognize Texian independence?
It seems that Gen. Gaines considers this a war in defence of 'our Texians.'"

Mr. Cambreleng explained that the word "neighbors," had been accidentally omitted in Gen. Gaines'
dispatch.

Mr. Adams continued:--"Was this an intention to conquer Texas, to re-establish that slavery
which had been abolished by the United Mexican States? If that was the case, and we were to
be drawn into an acknowledgment of their independence, and then, by that preliminary act, by
that acknowledgment, if we were upon their application to admit Texas to become a part of the
United States, then the House ought to be informed of it. I shall be for no such war, nor for
making any such addition to our territory. * * * * * * I hope Congress will take care to go
into no war for the re-establishment of slavery where it has been abolished--that they will
go into no war in behalf of 'our Texians,' or 'our Texian neighbors' and that they will go
into no war with a foreign power, without other cause than the acquisition of territory."

In a speech delivered a few days subsequent to the above, Mr. Adams used the following language:--

"It is said that one of the earliest acts of this administration was a proposal, made at a
time when there was already much ill-humor in Mexico against the United States, that she should
cede to the United States a very large portion of her territory--large enough to constitute
nine States equal in extent to Kentucky. It must be confessed that a device better calculated
to produce jealousy, suspicion, ill-will and hatred, could not have been contrived. It is further
affirmed that this overture, offensive in itself, was made precisely at the time when a swarm
of colonists from these United States, were covering the Mexican border with land-jobbing,
and with slaves, introduced in defiance of Mexican laws, by which slavery had been abolished
throughout the Republic. The war now raging in Texas is a Mexican civil war, and a war for
the reestablishment of slavery where it was abolished. It is not a servile war, but a war between
slavery and emancipation, and every possible effort has been made to drive us into the war
on the side of slavery."

"When, in the year 1836, resolutions to recognize the independence of Texas came up in the
House of Representatives, Mr. Adams opposed them with great energy and eloquence, and provoked
a most ardent and violent debate. Mr. Waddy Thompson, then a Representative in Congress, and
subsequently Minister to Mexico, advocated the passage of the resolutions; and, in doing so,
said that Mr. Adams, in negotiating the Florida treaty, actually ceded to Mexico the whole
of Texas, a province that was part and parcel of this Union.

"Mr. Adams immediately arrested the speech of Mr. Thompson, and denied the impeachment. Mr.
Thompson rejoined, and, to strengthen his position, quoted some remarks Gen. Jackson had made
on the subject, confirmatory of the charge of having sacrificed the national domain, in the
Florida negotiation.

"Mr. Adams replied with great warmth; and went into a minute and interesting narrative of the
whole transaction. Among other things, he said that, before the Florida treaty was signed,
he took it to Gen. Jackson, to obtain his opinion of it; and that it was unconditionally approved
by him.

"Mr. Thompson was surprised at the announcement of this fact. It weakened his position very
materially; and he resumed his seat a defeated antagonist. So said the House of Representatives,
with scarcely the exception of a member.

"Mr. Adams continued his defence. 'At that time,' said he, 'General Jackson was in this city,
on exciting business connected with the Seminole war; and, after the treaty had been concluded,
and only wanted the signatures of the contracting parties, the then President of the United
States directed me to call on General Jackson, in my official capacity as Secretary of State,
and obtain his opinion in reference to boundaries. I did call. General Jackson, sir, was at
that time holding his quarters in the hotel at the other end of the avenue, now kept by Mr.
Azariah Fuller, but then under the management of Jonathan McCarty. The day was exceedingly
warm, and, on entering General Jackson's parlor, I found him much exhausted by excitement,
and the intensity of the weather. I made known to him the object of my visit; when he replied
that I would greatly oblige him if I would excuse him from looking into the matter then. "Leave
the papers with me, sir, till to-morrow, or the next day, and I will examine them." I did leave
them sir; and the next day called for the hero's opinion and decision. Sir, I recollect the
occurrence perfectly well; General Jackson was still unwell; and the papers, with an accompanying
map, were spread before him. With his cane, sir, he pointed to the boundaries, as they had
been agreed upon by the parties; and, sir, with a very emphatic expression, which I need not
repeat, he affirmed them.'

"This debate, whilst yet warm from the hands of the reporters, reached General Jackson; and
was at once pressed upon his attention. Its contradiction and refutation were deemed matters
of paramount importance. The old soldier did not hesitate long to act in the matter, and speedily
there appeared in the Globe newspaper a letter, signed Andrew Jackson, denying, in unqualified
and unconditional terms, everything that Mr. Adams had uttered. He denied having been in Washington
at the time Mr. Adams designated; but afterwards, being convinced that he was in error, in
this fact only he corrected himself, but denied most positively that he had seen the Florida
treaty, or Mr. Adams, at the time of its negotiation, or that he had had the remotest agency
or connection with the transaction.

"Mr. Adams responded, and appealed to his diary, where everything was set forth with the utmost
precision and accuracy. The year, day of the month, and of the week, and the very hour of the
day, all were faithfully recorded.

"The affair produced much sensation at Washington; and even the most determined advocates of
General Jackson believed that he, and not Mr. Adams, was in error, No one would, or could for
a moment, believe that Mr. Adams' had made a false report.'

"Whilst this controversy was pending, I called at the Presidential mansion, one afternoon,
when General Jackson, strange to say, happened to be alone. He said that he was very glad to
see me, because he would like to hear, from one who had an opportunity of seeing more of the
press than he saw, what was the exact state of public opinion, in regard to the controversy.

"'As far as I am capable of judging, Mr. President,' I replied, 'the people appear to be unanimous
in the opinion that there is a misunderstanding, a misapprehension, between you and Mr. Adams;
for no one imagines, for a moment, that either of you would misrepresent facts! Mr. Adams is
a man of infinite method; he is generally accurate, and, in this instance, it appears that
he is sustained by his diary.'

"'His diary! don't tell' me anything more about his diary! Sir, that diary comes up on all
occasions--one would think that its pages were as immutable as the laws of the Medes and Persians!
Sir, that diary will be the death of me! I wonder if James Monroe kept a diary! If he did,
it is to be hoped that it will be looked to, to see if it contains anything about this Adams
and Dan Onis treaty. Sir, I did not see it; I was not consulted about it.'

"The old hero was exceedingly vehement, and was proceeding to descant with especial violence,
when he was interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Secretary Woodbury, and I never heard another
word about the matter. A question of veracity between the parties was raised, and was never
adjudicated. Both went down to the grave before any definite light was cast on the subject;
but the world had decided that General Jackson was in error."

In the meantime, during the years 1836 and 1837, the public mind in the Northern States, became
fully aroused to the enormities of American slavery--its encroachments on the rights and interests
of the free States--the undue influence it was exercising in our national councils--and the
evident determination to enlarge its borders and its evils, by the addition of new and large
territories. Petitions for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District of
Columbia and the Territories, began to pour into Congress, from every section of the East and
North. These were generally presented by Mr. Adams. His age and experience--his well-known
influence in the House of Representatives--his patriotism, and his intrepid advocacy of human
freedom--inspired the confidence of the people of the free States, and led them to entrust
to him their petitions. With scrupulous fidelity he performed the duty thus imposed upon him.
Whoever petitions might come from--whatever the nature of  their prayer--whether for such objects
as he could sanction or not--if they were clothed in respectful language, Mr. Adams felt himself
under an imperative obligation to present them to Congress. For several sessions at this period,
few days passed without his presenting more or less petitions having some relation to the subject
of slavery.

The southern members of Congress became alarmed at these demonstrations, and determined to
arrest them, even at the sacrifice, if need be, of the right of petition--the most sacred privilege
of freemen. On the 8th of Feb., 1836, a committee was raised by the House of Representatives,
to take into consideration what disposition should be made of petitions and memorials for the
abolition of slavery and the slave trade, in the District of Columbia, and report thereon.
This committee consisted of Messrs. Pinckney of South Carolina, Hamer of Ohio, Pierce of New
Hampshire, Hardin of Kentucky, Jarvis of Maine, Owens of Georgia, Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania,
Dromgoole of Virginia, and Turrill of New York.

When the first of these resolutions was taken up, Mr. Adams said, if the House would allow
him five minutes' time, he would prove the resolution to be untrue. His request was denied.

On the third resolution Mr. Adams refused to vote, and sent to the Speaker's chair the following
declaration, demanding that it should be placed on the journal of the House, there to stand
to the latest posterity:--

"I hold the resolution to be a direct violation of the Constitution of the United States, of
the rules of this House, and of the rights of my constituents."

Notwithstanding the rule embodied in this resolution virtually trampled the right of petition
into the dust, yet it was adopted by the House, by a large majority. But Mr. Adams was not
to be deterred by this arbitrary restriction, from a faithful discharge of his duty as a representative
of the people. Petitions on the subject of slavery continued to be transmitted to him in increased
numbers. With unwavering firmness--against a bitter and unscrupulous opposition, exasperated
to the highest pitch by his pertinacity--amidst a perfect tempest of vituperation and abuse--he
persevered in presenting these petitions, one by one, to the amount sometimes of two hundred
in a day--demanding the action of the House on each separate petition.

His position amid these scenes was in the highest degree illustrious and sublime. An old man,
with the weight of years upon him, forgetful of the elevated stations he had occupied, and
the distinguished honors received for past services, turning away from the repose which age
so greatly needs, and laboring, amidst scorn and derision, and threats of expulsion and assassination,
to maintain the sacred right of petition for the poorest and humblest in the land--insisting
that the voice of a free people should be heard by their representatives, when they would speak
in condemnation of human slavery and call upon them to maintain the principles of liberty embodied
in the immortal Declaration of Independence--was a spectacle unwitnessed before in the history
of legislation. A few specimens of these transactions will enable the reader to judge of the
trials Mr. Adams was compelled to endure in the discharge of his duties, and also of his moral
courage and indomitable perseverance, amid the most appalling circumstances.

On the 6th of Jan., 1837, Mr. Adams presented the petition of one hundred and fifty women,
whom he stated to be the wives and daughters of his immediate constituents, praying for the
abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and moved that the petition be read.

Mr. Glascock objected to its reception.

Mr. Parks moved that the preliminary motion, on the reception of the petition, be laid on the
table, which was carried.

Mr. Adams said, that if he had understood the decision of the Speaker in this case, it was
not the petition itself which was laid upon the table, but the motion to receive. In order
to save the time of the House, he wished to give notice that he should call up that motion,
for decision, every day, so long as he should be permitted to do so by the House; because he
should not consider his duty accomplished so long as the petition was not received, and so
long as the House had not decided that it would not receive it.

Mr. Pinckney rose to a question of order, and inquired if there was now any question pending
before the House?

The Speaker said, he had understood the gentleman from Massachusetts as merely giving notice
of a motion hereafter to be made. In doing so, it certainly was not in order to enter into debate.

Mr. Adams said, that so long as freedom of speech was allowed to him as a member of that House,
he would call up that question until it should be decided.

Mr. Adams was called to order.

Mr. A. said, he would then have the honor of presenting to the House the petition of two hundred
and twenty-eight women, the wives and daughters of his immediate constituents; and as a part
of the speech which he intended to make, he would take the liberty of reading the petition.
It was not long, and would not consume much time.

Mr. Glascock objected to the reception of the petition.

Mr. Adams proceeded to read, that the petitioners, inhabitants of South Weymouth, in the State
of Massachusetts, "impressed with the sinfulness of slavery, and keenly aggrieved by its existence
in a part of our country over which Congress--"

Mr. Pinckney rose to a question of order. Had the gentleman from Massachusetts a right, under
the rule, to read the petition?

The Speaker said, the gentleman from Massachusetts had a right to make a statement of the contents
of the petition.

Mr. Pinckney desired the decision of the Speaker as to whether a gentleman had a right to read
a petition.

Mr. Adams said he was reading the petition as a part of his speech, and he took this to be
one of the privileges of a member of the House. It was a privilege he would exercise till he
should be deprived of it by some positive act.

The Speaker repeated that the gentleman from Massachusetts had a right to make a brief statement
of the contents of the petition. It was not for the Speaker to decide whether that brief statement
should be made in the gentleman's own language, or whether he should look over the petition,
and take his statement from that.

Mr. Adams.--At the time my friend from South Carolina--

The Speaker said the gentleman must proceed to state the contents of the petition.

Mr. Adams.-I am doing so, sir.

The Speaker.--Not in the opinion of the chair.

Mr. Adams.--I was at this point of the petition--"Keenly aggrieved by its existence in a part
of our country over which Congress possesses exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever--"

Loud cries of "Order," "Order!"

Mr. Adams.-"Do most earnestly petition your honorable body--"

Mr. Chambers of Kentucky rose to a point of order.

Mr. Adams.--"Immediately to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia--"

Mr. Chambers reiterated his call to order, and the Speaker directed Mr. Adams to take his seat.

Mr. Adams proceeded with great rapidity of enunciation, and in a very loud tone of voice--"And
to declare every human being free who sets foot upon its soil!"

The confusion in the hall at this time was very great. The Speaker decided that it was not
in order for a member to read a petition, whether it was long or short.

Mr. Adams appealed from any decision which went to establish the principle that a member of
the House should not have the power to read what he chose. He had never before heard of such
a thing. If this practice was to be reversed, let the decision stand upon record, and let it
appear how entirely the freedom of speech was suppressed in this House. If the reading of a
paper was to be suppressed in his person, so help him God, he would only consent to it as a
matter of record.

Mr. Adams finished the petition. The petitioners "respectfully announce their intention to
present the same petition yearly before this honorable body, that it might at least be a memorial
in the holy cause of human freedom that they had done what they could."

These words were read amidst tumultuous cries for "order," from every part of the House. The
petition was finally received, and laid upon the table.

Other scenes of a still more exciting character soon occurred.

On the 7th of February, 1837, after Mr. Adams had offered some two hundred or more abolition
petitions, he came to a halt; and, without yielding the floor, employed himself in packing
up his budget. He was about resuming his seat, when he took up a paper, and hastily glancing
at it, exclaimed, in a shrill tone--

"Mr. Speaker, I have in my possession a petition of a somewhat extraordinary character; and
I wish to inquire of the chair if it be in order to present it."

"If the gentleman from Massachusetts," said the Speaker, "will inform the chair what the character
of the petition is, it will probably be able to decide on the subject."

"Sir," ejaculated Mr. Adams, "the petition is signed by eleven slaves of the town of Fredericksburgh,
in the county of Culpepper, in the state of Virginia. It is one of those petitions which, it
has occurred to my mind, are not what they purport to be. It is signed partly by persons who
cannot write, by making their marks, and partly by persons whose handwriting would manifest
that they have received the education of slaves. The petition declares itself to be from slaves,
and I am requested to present it. I will send it to the chair."

The Speaker (Mr. Polk,) who habitually extended to Mr. Adams every courtesy and kindness imaginable,
was taken by surprise, and found himself involved in a dilemma. Giving his chair one of those
hitches which ever denoted his excitement, he said that a petition from slaves was a novelty,
and involved a question that he did not feel called upon to decide. He would like to take time
to consider it; and, in the meantime, would refer it to the House.

The House was very thin at the time, and little attention was paid to what was going on, till
the excitement of the Speaker attracted the attention of Mr. Dixon H. Lewis, of Alabama, who
impatiently, and under great excitement, rose and inquired what the petition was.

Mr. Speaker afforded the required information. Mr. Lewis, forgetting all discretion, whilst
he frothed at the mouth, turned towards Mr. Adams, and ejaculated at the top of his voice,
"By G-d, sir, this is not to be endured any longer!"

"Treason! treason!" screamed a half dozen other members. "Expel the old scoundrel; put him
out; do not let him disgrace the House any longer!"

"Get up a resolution to meet the case," exclaimed a member from North Carolina.

Mr. George C. Dromgoole, who had acquired a very favorable reputation as a parliamentarian,
was selected as the very man who, of all others, was most capable of drawing up a resolution
that would meet and cover the emergency. He produced a resolution with a preamble, in which
it was stated, substantially, that, whereas the Hon. John Quincy Adams, a representative from
Massachusetts, had presented to the House of Representatives a petition signed by negro slaves,
thus "giving color to an idea" that bondmen were capable of exercising the right of petition,
it was "Resolved, That he be taken to the bar of the House, and be censured by the Speaker
thereof."

Mr. Haynes said, the true motion, in his judgment, would be to move that the petition be rejected.

Mr. Lewis hoped that no motion of that kind would come from any gentleman from a slaveholding
section of the country.

Mr. Haynes said he would cheerfully withdraw his motion.

Mr. Lewis was glad the motion was withdrawn. He believed that the House should punish severely
such an infraction of its decorum and its rules; and he called on the members from the slaveholding
States to come forward now and demand of the House the punishment of the gentleman from Massachusetts.

Mr. Grantland, of Georgia, would second the motion, and go all lengths in support of it.

Mr. Lewis said, that if the House would inflict no punishment for such flagrant violations
of its dignity as this, it would be better for the Representatives from the slaveholding Slates
to go home at once.

Mr. Alford said, if the gentleman from Massachusetts intended to present this petition, the
moment it was presented he should move, as an act of justice to the South, which he in part
represented, and which he conceived had been treated with indignity, that it be taken from
the House and burnt; and he hoped that every man who was a friend to the constitution, would
support him. There must be an end to this constant attempt to raise excitement, or the Union
could not exist much longer. The moment any man should disgrace the Government under which
he lived, by presenting a petition from slaves, praying for emancipation, he hoped that petition
would, by order of the House, be committed to the flames.

Mr. Waddy Thompson moved the following resolution:--

"Resolved, That the Hon. John Quincy Adams, by the attempt just made by him to introduce a
petition purporting on its face to be from slaves, has been guilty of a gross disrespect to
this House, and that he be instantly brought to the bar, to receive the severe censure of the
Speaker."

The idea of bringing the venerable ex-President to the bar, like a culprit, to receive a reprimand
from a comparatively youthful Speaker, would be a spectacle so disgraceful, and withal so absurd,
that the proposition met with no favor. An easier way to reprimand was devised. Mr. Haynes
introduced the following resolution:--

"Resolved, That John Quincy Adams, a Representative from the State of Massachusetts, has rendered
himself justly liable to the severest censure of this House, and is censured accordingly, for
having attempted to present to the House the petition of slaves."

Several other resolutions and propositions, from members of slaveholding States, were submitted
to the House; but none proved satisfactory even to themselves. Mr. Adams, unmoved by the tempest
which raged around him, defended himself, and the integrity of his purpose, with the distinguished
ability and eloquence which characterized all his public labors.

"In regard to the resolutions now before the House," said he, "as they all concur in naming
me, and in charging me with high crimes and misdemeanors, and in calling me to the bar of the
House to answer for my crimes, I have thought it was my duty to remain silent, until it should
be the pleasure of the House to act either on one or the other of these resolutions. I suppose
that if I shall be brought to the bar of the House, I shall not be struck mute by the previous
question, before I have an opportunity to say a word or two in my own defence. * * * * * *

"Now, as to the fact what the petition was for, I simply state to the gentleman from Alabama,
(Mr. D. H. Lewis,) who has sent to the table a resolution assuming that this petition was for
the abolition of slavery--I state to him that he is mistaken. He must amend his resolution;
for if the House should choose to read this petition, I can state to them they would find it
something very much the reverse of that which the resolution states it to be. And if the gentleman
from Alabama still chooses to bring me to the bar of the House, he must amend his resolution
in a very important particular; for he may probably have to put into it, that my crime has
been for attempting to introduce the petition of slaves that slavery should not be abolished.
It does not belong to the most abject despotism! There is no absolute monarch on earth, who
is not compelled, by the constitution of his country, to receive the petitions of his people,
whosoever they may be. The Sultan of Constantinople cannot walk the streets and refuse to receive
petitions from the meanest and vilest of the land. This is the law even of despotism.

"But I must admit," continued Mr. Adams, sarcastically, "that when color comes into the question,
there may be other considerations. It is possible that this house, which seems to consider
it so great a crime to attempt to offer a petition from slaves, may, for aught I know, say
that freemen, if not of the carnation, shall be deprived of the right of petition, in the sense
of the House."

When southern members saw that, in their haste, they had not tarried to ascertain the nature
of the petition, and that it prayed for the perpetuation, instead of the abolition of slavery,
their position became so ludicrous, that their exasperation was greatly increased. At the time
the petition was announced by Mr. Adams, the House was very thin; but the excitement it produced
soon filled it; and, besides, the sergeant-at-arms had been instructed to arrest and bring
in all absentees. The excitement commenced at about one o'clock, and continued until seven
o'clock in the evening, when the House adjourned. Mr. Adams stood at his desk, resolutely refusing
to be seated till the matter was disposed of, alleging that if he were guilty, he was not entitled
to a seat among high and honorable men. When Mr. Droomgoole's resolution was read to the House
for its consideration, Mr. Adams yielded to it one of those sarcastic sneers which he was in
the habit of giving, when provoked to satire; and said--"Mr. Speaker, if I understand the resolution
of the honorable gentleman from Virginia, it charges me with being guilty of giving color to
an idea!'" The whole House broke forth in one common irrepressible peal of laughter. The Droomgoole
resolution was actually laughed out of existence. The House now found that it had got itself
in a dilemma,--that Mr. Adams was too much for it; and, at last, adjourned, leaving the affair
in the position in which they found it.

For several days this subject continued to agitate the House. Mr. Adams not only warded off
the virulent attacks made upon him, but carried the war so effectually into the camp of his
enemies, that, becoming heartily tired of the contest, they repeatedly endeavored to get rid
of the whole subject by laying it on the table. To this Mr. Adams objected. He insisted that
it should be thoroughly canvassed. Immense excitement ensued. Call after call of the House
was made. Mr. Henry A. Wise, who was, at the time, engaged on the Reuben Whitney affair, was
sent for: with an accompanying message that the stability of the Union was in danger!

Breathless, and impatient, Mr. Wise made his appearance, and inquired what was the matter.
He was informed.

"And is that all?" ejaculated Mr. Wise. "The gentleman from Massachusetts has presented a petition
signed by slaves! Well, sir, and what of that? Is anybody harmed by it? Sir, in my opinion,
slaves are the very persons who should petition. Mine, sir, pray to me, and I listen to them;
and shall not the feeble supplicate? Sir, I see no danger,--the country, I believe, is safe."

At length the exciting subject was brought to a termination, by the passage of the following
preamble and resolutions; much softened, it will be seen, in comparison with the measures first
proposed:--

"An inquiry having been made by an honorable gentleman from Massachusetts, whether a paper
which he held in his hand, purporting to be a petition from certain slaves, and declaring themselves
to be slaves, came within the order of the House of the 18th of January,[Footnote: This order
was the same as that adopted by the House on the 18th of May, 1836. See p. 281.] and the said
paper not having been received by the Speaker, he stated that in a case so extraordinary and
novel, he would take the advice and counsel of the House.

"Resolved, That this House cannot receive said petition without disregarding its own dignity,
the rights of a large class of citizens of the South and West, and the Constitution of the
United States.

"Resolved, That slaves do not possess the right of petition secured to the citizens of the
United States by the constitution."

The slave petition is believed to have been a counterfeit, manufactured by certain members
from slaveholding States, and was sent to Mr. Adams by the way of experiment--with the double
design of ascertaining if he could be imposed upon; and, if the deception succeeded, those
who got it up were curious to know if the venerable statesman would redeem his pledge, and
present a petition, no matter who it came from. He was too wily not to detect the plot at the
outset; he knew that all was a hoax; but, he resolved to present the paper, and then turn the
tables on its authors. This motion was opposed with great warmth by members from slaveholding
States. Mr. Adams was repeatedly interrupted during the delivery of the brief speech he made
on the occasion.

Mr. Bynum insisted that the gentleman from Massachusetts should take his seat, under the rule.
If, however, he was permitted to proceed, Mr. B. hoped some gentleman of the slaveholding portion
of the House would be allowed to answer him.

Mr. Adams.--Sir, I hope so. Only open our mouths, gentlemen; that is all we ask, and you may
answer as much as you please.

Mr. Bynum.--I object to the gentleman proceeding further with his observations, except by consent
of the House. If we have rules we had better either obey them or burn them.

The House voted, by 114 to 47, to allow Mr. Adams to proceed.

In continuing his speech, Mr. Adams said, that even admitting the object of the petitioners
is abolition, as has been alleged, they had the right to petition for that too; for every individual
in the country had a right to be an abolitionist. The great men of the Revolution were abolitionists,
and if any man denies it, I will prove it.

Mr. Wise.--I deny it.

The Speaker said this was out of order.

Mr. Adams.--I feel obliged to the gentleman from Virginia for giving me the invitation, and
I will now prove what I say.

The Speaker said this did not form any part of the question before the House.

Mr. Adams.--George Washington, in articulo mortis, by his last will and testament, before God,
his Creator, emancipated his slaves.

Mr. Wise.--Because he had no children.

The Speaker again interposed, and said the gentleman could not go into that question. It was
entirely out of order.

Mr. Adams.--I did but accept the invitation of the gentleman from Virginia. I do not wish to
go further. I simply take the position that George Washington was an abolitionist in the most
extensive sense of the term; and I defy any man in this House to the discussion, and to prove
to the contrary if he can.

The Speaker called Mr. Adams to order.

Mr. Adams.--Well, sir, I was stating the high authority which is to be found for the principles
of abolition. Does the gentleman from Virginia deny that Thomas Jefferson was an abolitionist?

Mr. Wise.--I do.

The Speaker again interposed.

Mr. Adams.--Well, sir, then I come back to my position, that every man in this country has
a right to be an abolitionist, and that in being so he offends no law, but, in my opinion,
obeys the most sacred of all laws.

The motion to instruct the committee, was finally laid upon the table.

Mr. Adams was evidently anxious to engage in a legitimate discussion, in the House of Representatives,
of the subject of slavery in all its bearings, influences, and results. Such a discussion,
coolly and deliberately entered upon, by men of the most distinguished abilities in the nation,
could not but have been pregnant with lasting good, not only to the North, but also to the
South and the entire country. From and after the 4th day of July, 1842, there shall be throughout
the United States no hereditary slavery; but on and after that day, every child born within
the United States, their territories or jurisdiction, shall be born free.

"2. With the exception of the territory of Florida, there shall henceforth never be admitted
into this Union, any State, the constitution of which shall tolerate within the same the existence
of slavery.

"3. From and after the 4th day of July, 1845, there shall be neither slavery nor slave trade,
at the seat of Government of the United States."

Instead of meeting and canvassing, in a manly and honorable manner, the vitally important question
involved in these propositions, the slaveholding Representatives objected to its coming before
the House for consideration, in any form whatever. In this instance, as in most others, where
the merits of slavery are involved, the supporters of that institution manifested a timidity,
a want of confidence in its legitimacy, of the most suspicious nature. If slavery is lawful
and defensible--if it violates no true principle among men, no human right bestowed by the
Creator--if it can be tolerated and perpetuated in harmony with republican institutions and
our Declaration of Independence--if its existence in the bosom of the Confederacy involves
no incongruity, and is calculated to promote the prosperity and stability of the Union, or
the welfare of the slaveholding States themselves--these are facts which can be made evident
to the world, by the unsurpassed abilities of southern statesmen. Why, then, object to a candid
and fearless investigation of the subject? But if slavery is the reverse of all this--if it
is a moral poison, contaminating and blighting everything connected with it, and containing
the seeds of its own dissolution sooner or later--why should wise, sagacious politicians, prudent
and honest men, and conscientious Christians, shut their eyes and turn away from a fact so
appalling and so dangerous. No man of intelligence can hope, in this age of the world, to perpetuate
that which is wrong and destructive, by bravado and threatening--by refusing to look it in
the face, or to allow others to scrutinize it. Error must pass away. Truth, however unpalatable,
or however it may be obscured for a season, must eventually triumph. The very exertions of
its supporters to perpetuate wrong, will but hasten its death.

Notwithstanding the course Mr. Adams felt himself compelled to pursue led him frequently into
collision with a large portion of the Members of the House of Representatives, and caused them
sometimes, in the heat of excitement, to forget the deference due his age, his experience,
and commanding abilities, yet there was ever a deep, under-current feeling of veneration for
him, pervading all hearts. Those who were excited to the highest pitch of frenzy by his proceedings,
could not but admire the singleness of his purpose, and his undaunted courage in discharging
his duties. On all subjects aside from slavery, his influence in the House has never been surpassed.
Whenever he arose to speak, it was a signal for a general abandonment of listlessness and inattention.
Members dropped their newspapers and pamphlets--knots of consulting politicians in different
parts of the Hall were dissolved--Representatives came hastily in from lobbies, committee-rooms,
the surrounding grounds--and all eagerly clustered around his chair to listen to words of wisdom,
patriotism, and truth, as they dropped burning from the lips of "the old man eloquent!" The
confidence placed in him in emergencies, was unbounded. A case in point is afforded in the
history of the difficulty occasioned by the double delegation from New Jersey.

On the opening of the 26th Congress, in December, 1839, in consequence of a two-fold delegation
from New-Jersey, the House was unable, for some time, to complete its organization, and presented
to the country and the world the perilous and discreditable aspect of the assembled Representatives
of the people, unable to form themselves into a constitutional body. On first assembling, the
House has no officers, and the Clerk of the preceding Congress acts, by usage, as chairman
of the body, till a Speaker is chosen. On this occasion, after reaching the State of New Jersey,
the acting Clerk declined to proceed in calling the roll, and refused to entertain any of the
motions which were made for the purpose of extricating the House from its embarrassment. Many
of the ablest and most judicious members had addressed the House in vain, and there was nothing
but confusion and disorder in prospect.

The fourth day opened, and still confusion was triumphant. But the hour of disenthrallment
was at hand, and a scene was presented which sent the mind back to those days when Cromwell
uttered the exclamation--"Sir Harry Vane! wo unto you, Sir Harry Vane!"--and in an instant
dispersed the famous Rump Parliament.

Mr. Adams, from the opening of this scene of confusion and anarchy, had maintained a profound
silence. He appeared to be engaged most of the time in writing. To a common observer, he seemed
to be reckless of everything around him--but nothing, not the slightest incident, escaped him.
The fourth day of the struggle had now commenced; Mr. Hugh H. Garland, the Clerk, was directed
to call the roll again.

He commenced with Maine, as was usual in those days, and was proceeding toward Massachusetts.
I turned, and saw that Mr. Adams was ready to get the floor at the earliest moment possible.
His keen eye was riveted on the Clerk; his hands clasped the front edge of his desk, where
he always placed them to assist him in rising. He looked, in the language of Otway, like the

                     "--fowler, eager for his prey."

"New Jersey!" ejaculated Mr. Hugh H. Garland, "and the Clerk has to repeat that--"

Mr. Adams sprang to the floor!

"I rise to interrupt the Clerk," was his first ejaculation.

"Silence, silence," resounded through the hall; "hear him, hear him! Here what he has to say;
hear John Quincy Adams!" was the unanimous ejaculation on all sides.

In an instant, the most profound silence reigned throughout the Hall--you might have heard
a leaf of paper fall in any part of it--and every eye was riveted on the venerable Nestor of
Massachusetts--the purest of statesmen, and the noblest of men! He paused for a moment; and,
having given Mr. Garland a

                           "--withering look!"

he proceeded to address the multitude:

"It was not my intention," said he, "to take any part in these extraordinary proceedings. I
had hoped that this House would succeed in organizing itself; that a Speaker and Clerk would
be elected, and that the ordinary business of legislation would be progressed in. This is not
the time, or place, to discuss the merits of the conflicting claimants for seats from New Jersey;
that subject belongs to the House of Representatives, which, by the constitution, is made the
ultimate arbiter of the qualifications of its members. But what a spectacle we here present!
We degrade and disgrace ourselves; we degrade and disgrace our constituents and the country.
We do not, and cannot organize; and why? Because the Clerk of this House, the mere Clerk, whom
we create, whom we employ, and whose existence depends upon our will, usurps the throne, and
sets us, the Representatives, the vicegerents of the whole American people, at defiance, and
holds us in contempt! And what is this Clerk of yours? Is he to control the destinies of sixteen
millions of freemen? Is he to suspend, by his mere negative, the functions of Government, and
put an end to this Congress? He refuses to call the roll! It is in your power to compel him
to call it, if he will not do it voluntarily. [Here he was interrupted by a member, who said
that he was authorized to say that compulsion could not reach the Clerk, who had avowed that
he would resign, rather than call the State of New Jersey.] Well, sir, then let him resign,"
continued Mr. Adams, "and we may possibly discover some way by which we can get along, without
the aid of his all-powerful talent, learning and genius. If we cannot organize in any other
way--if this Clerk of yours will not consent to our discharging the trusts confided to us by
our constituents, then let us imitate the example of the Virginia House of Burgesses, which,
when the colonial Governor Dinwiddie ordered it to disperse, refused to obey the imperious
and insulting mandate, and, like men--"

The multitude could not contain or repress their enthusiasm any longer, but saluted the eloquent
and indignant speaker, and intercepted him with loud and deafening cheers, which seemed to
shake the capitol to its centre. The very Genii of applause and enthusiasm seemed to float
in the atmosphere of the Hall, and every heart expanded with an indescribable feeling of pride
and exultation. The turmoil, the darkness, the very "chaos of anarchy," which had, for three
successive days, pervaded the American Congress, was dispelled by the magic, the talismanic
eloquence of a single man; and, once more the wheels of Government and of Legislation were
put in motion.[Footnote: Reminiscences--by an Old Colony Man.]

Having, by this powerful appeal, brought the yet unorganized assembly to a perception of its
hazardous position, he submitted a motion requiring the acting Clerk to proceed in calling
the roll. This and similar motions had already been made by other members. The difficulty was,
that the acting Clerk declined to entertain them. Accordingly, Mr. Adams was immediately interrupted
by a burst of voices demanding, "How shall the question be put?" "Who will put the question?"
The voice of Mr. Adams was heard above the tumult, "I intend to put the question myself!" That
word brought order out of chaos. There was the master mind.

As soon as the multitude had recovered itself, and the excitement of irrepressible enthusiasm
had abated, Mr. Richard Barnwell Rhett, of South Carolina, leaped upon one of the desks, waved
his hand, and exclaimed:

"I move that the Honorable John Quincy Adams take the chair of the Speaker of this House, and
officiate as presiding officer, till the House be organized by the election of its constitutional
officers! As many as are agreed to this will say ay; those--"

He had not an opportunity to complete the sentence--"those who are not agreed, will say no,"--for
one universal, deafening, thundering ay, responded to the nomination.

Hereupon, it was moved and ordered that Lewis Williams, of North Carolina, and Richard Barnwell
Rhett, conduct John Quincy Adams to the chair.

Well did Mr. Wise, of Virginia, say, "Sir, I regard it as the proudest hour of your life; and
if, when you shall be gathered to your fathers, I were asked to select the words which, in
my judgment, are best calculated to give at once the character of the man, I would inscribe
upon your tomb this sentence, 'I will put the question myself.'" [Footnote: In a public address,
Mr. Adams once quoted the well known words of Tacitus, Annal. vi. 39--"Par negotiis neque supra"--applying
them to a distinguished man, lately deceased. A lady wrote to inquire whence they came. Mr.
Adams informed her, and added, that they could not be adequately translated in less than seven
words in English.

It would be impossible, in the limit prescribed to these pages, to detail the numerous scenes
and occurrences of a momentous nature, in which Mr. Adams took a prominent part during his
services in the House of Representatives. The path he marked out for himself at the commencement
of his congressional career, was pursued with unfaltering fidelity to the close of life. His
was the rare honor of devoting himself, unreservedly, to his legitimate duties as a Representative
of the people while in Congress, and to nothing else. He believed the halls of the Capitol
were no place for political intrigue; and that a member of Congress, instead of studying to
shape his course to make political capital or to subserve party ends, should devote himself
rigidly and solely to the interests of his constituents.  His practice corresponded with his
theory. His speeches, his votes, his entire labors in Congress, were confined strictly to practical
subjects, vitally connected with the great interests of our common country, and had no political
or party bearing, other than such as truth and public good might possess.

His hostility to slavery and the assumptions and usurpations of slave power in the councils
of the nation, continued to the day of his death. At the commencement of each session of Congress,
he demanded that the infamous "gag rule," which forbid the presentation of petitions on the
subject of slavery, should be abolished. But despite its continuance, he persisted in handing
in petitions from the people of every class, complexion and condition. He did not hesitate
to lay before the House of Representatives a petition from Haverhill, Mass., for the dissolution
of the Union! Although opposed in his whole soul to the prayer of the petitioners, yet he believed
himself sacredly bound to listen with due respect to every request of the people, when couched
in respectful terms.

In vain did the supporters of slavery endeavor to arrest his course, and to seal his lips in
silence. In vain did they threaten assassination--expulsion from the House--indictment before
the grand jury of the District of Columbia. In vain did they declare that he should "be made
amenable to another tribunal, [mob-law] and as an incendiary, be brought to condign punishment."
"My life on it," said a southern member, "if he presents that petition from slaves, we shall
yet see him within the walls of the penitentiary." All these attempts at brow-beating moved
him not a tittle. Firm he stood to his duty, despite the storms of angry passion which howled
around him, and with withering rebukes repelled the assaults of hot-blooded opponents, as the
proud old headland, jutting far into ocean's bosom, tosses high, in worthless spray, the dark
mountain billows which in wrath beat upon it.

"Do the gentlemen from the South," said he, "think they can frighten me by their threats? If
that be their object, let me tell them, sir, they have mistaken their man. I am not to be frightened
from the discharge of a sacred duty, by their indignation, by their violence, nor, sir, by
all the grand juries in the universe. I have done only my duty; and I shall do it again under
the same circumstances, even though they recur to-morrow."

  "Though aged, he was so iron of limb,
   None of the youth could cope with him;
   And the foes whom he singly kept at bay,
   Outnumbered his thin hairs of silver grey."

Nor was Mr. Adams without encouragement in his trying position. His immediate constituents,
at their primary meetings, repeatedly sent up a cheering voice in strong and earnest resolutions,
approving heartily his course, and urging him to, perseverance therein. The Legislatures of
Massachusetts and Vermont, rallied to his support. In solemn convocation, they protested against
the virtual annihilation of the right of petition--against slavery and the slave trade in the
District of Columbia--gave their entire sanction to the principles advocated by Mr. Adams,
and pledged their countenance to all measures calculated to sustain them.

Large bodies of people in the Eastern, Northern, and Middle States, sympathized with him in
his support of the most sacred of privileges bestowed on man. Representative after Representative
were sent to Congress, who gathered around him, and co-operated with him in his holy warfare
against the iron rule which slavery had been enabled to establish in the national Legislature.
With renewed energy he resisted the mighty current which was undermining the foundations of
the Republic, and bearing away upon its turbid waters the liberties of the people. And he resisted
not in vain.

The brave old man lived to see his labors, in this department of duty, crowned with abundant
success. One after another the cohorts of slavery gave way before the incessant assaults, the
unwearied perseverance, of Mr. Adams, and the faithful compeers who were sent by the people
to his support. At length, in 1845, the obnoxious "gag rule" was rescinded, and Congress consented
to receive, and treat respectfully, all petitions on the subject of slavery. This was a moral
triumph which amply compensated Mr. Adams for all the labors he had put forth, and for all
the trials he had endured to achieve it.

Yes; he "lived to hear that subject which of all others had been forbidden an entrance into
the Halls of Congress, fairly broached. He lived to listen, with a delight all his own, to
a high-souled, whole-hearted speech on the slave question, from his colleague, Mr. Palfrey--a
speech, of which it is not too high praise to say, that it would not have disparaged the exalted
reputation of Mr. Adams, had he made it himself. Aye, more, he lived to see the whole House
of Representatives--the members from the South, not less than those from the North, attentive
and respectful listeners to that speech of an hour's length, on the political as well as moral
aspect of slavery in this Republic. What a triumph! At the close of it, the moral conqueror
exclaimed, 'God be praised; the seals are broken, the door is open.'" [Footnote: Rev. S. J. May.]

If anything were wanting to crown the fame of Mr. Adams, in the Last days of life, with imperishable
honor, or to add, if possible, new brilliancy to the beams of his setting sun, it is found
in his advocacy of the freedom of the Amistad slaves.

A ship-load of negroes had been stolen from Africa, contrary to the law of nations, of humanity
and of God, and surreptitiously smuggled, in the night, into the Island of Cuba. This act was
piracy, according to the law of Spain, and of all Governments in Christendom, and the perpetrators
thereof, had they been detected, would have been punished with death. Immediately after the
landing of these unfortunate Africans, about thirty-six of them were purchased of the slave-pirates,
by two Spaniards named Don Jose Ruiz and Don Pedro Montes, who shipped them for Guanaja, Cuba,
in the schooner "Amistad." When three days out from Havana, the Africans rose, killed the captain
and crew, and took possession of the vessel--sparing the lives of their purchaser's, Ruiz and
Montes. This transaction was unquestionably justifiable on the part of the negroes. They had
been stolen from their native land--had fallen into the hands of pirates and robbers, and reduced
to abject slavery. According to the first law of nature--the law of self-defence--implanted
in the bosom of every human being by the Creator, they were justified in taking any measures
necessary to restore them to the enjoyment of that freedom which was theirs by birthright.

The negroes being unable to manage the schooner, compelled Ruiz and Montes to navigate her,
and directed them to shape her course for Africa; for it was their design to return to their
native land. But they were deceived by the two Spaniards, who brought the schooner to the coast
of the United States, where she was taken possession of by Lieut. Gedney, of the U. S. surveying
brig Washington, a few miles off Montauk Point, and brought into New London, Conn., The two
Spaniards claimed the Africans as their property; and the Spanish Minister demanded of the
President of the United States, that they be delivered up to the proper authorities, and taken
back to Havana, to be tried for piracy and murder. The matter was brought before the District
Court of Connecticut.

In the mean time President Van Buren ordered the U. S. schooner Grampus, Lieut. John S. Paine,
to repair to New Haven, to be in readiness to convey the Africans to Havana, should such be
the decision of the Court. But the Court decided that the Government of the United States had
no authority to return them into slavery; and directed that they be conveyed in one of our
public ships to the shores of Africa, from whence they had but recently been torn away. From
this decision the U. S. District Attorney appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States.

These transactions attracted the attention of the whole people of the Union, and naturally
excited the sympathy of the masses, pro and con, as they were favorable or unfavorable to the
institution of slavery. Who should defend, in the Supreme Court, these poor outcasts--ignorant,
degraded, wretched--who, fired with a noble energy, had burst the shackles of slavery, and
by a wave of fortune had been thrown into the midst of a people professing freedom, yet keeping
their feet on the necks of millions of slaves? The eyes of all the friends of human rights
turned instinctively to JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. Nor were their expectations disappointed. Without
hesitation he espoused the cause of the Amistad negroes. At the age of seventy-four, he appeared
in the Supreme Court of the United States to advocate their cause. He entered upon this labor
with the enthusiasm of a youthful barrister, and displayed forensic talents, a critical knowledge
of law, and of the inalienable rights of man, which would have added to the renown of the most
eminent jurists of the day.

"When he went to the Supreme Court, after an absence of thirty years, and arose to defend a
body of friendless negroes, torn from their home and most unjustly held in thrall--when he
asked the Judges to excuse him at once both for the trembling faults of age and the inexperience
of youth, having labored so long elsewhere that he had forgotten the rules of court--when he
summed up the conclusion of the whole matter, and brought before those judicial but yet moistening
eyes, the great men whom he had once met there--Chase, Cushing, Martin, Livingston, and Marshal
himself; and while he remembered that they were 'gone, gone, all gone,' remembered also the
eternal Justice that is never gone--the sight was sublime. It was not an old patrician of Rome,
who had been Consul, Dictator, coming out of his honored retirement at the Senate's call, to
stand in the Forum to levy new armies, marshal them to victory afresh, and gain thereby new
laurels for his brow; but it was a plain citizen of America, who had held an office far greater
than that of Consul, King, or Dictator, his hand reddened by no man's blood, expecting no honors,
but coming in the name of justice, to plead for the slave, for the poor barbarian negro of
Africa, for Cinque and Grabbo for their deeds comparing them to Harmodius and Aristogeiton,
whose classic memory made each bosom thrill. That was worth all his honors--it was worth while
to live fourscore years for that." [Footnote: Theodore Parker.]

This effort of Mr. Adams was crowned with complete success. The Supreme Court decided that
the Africans were entitled to their freedom, and ordered them to be liberated. In due time
they were enabled, by the assistance of the charitable, to sail for Africa, and take with them
many of the implements of civilized life. They arrived in safety at Sierre Leone, and were
allowed once more to mingle with their friends, and enjoy God's gift of freedom, in a Pagan
land--having fortunately escaped from a cruel and life-long bondage, in the midst of a Christian
people.

In reply to a letter requesting Mr. Adams to write out his argument in this case, he concludes
as follows: "I shall endeavor, as you desire, to write out, in full extent, my argument before
the Court, in which all this was noticed and commented upon. If it has no other effect, I hope
it will at least have that of admonishing the free people of this Union to keep perpetually
watchful eyes upon every act of their executive administration, having any relation to the
subject of slavery."

In availing the country of the benefit of the "Smithsonian Bequest," and in founding the "Smithsonian
Institute" at Washington, Mr. Adams took an active part. He repeatedly called the attention
of Congress to the subject, until he succeeded in causing a bill to be passed providing for
the establishment of the Institute. He was appointed one of the Regents of the Institute, which
office he held until his death.

In the summer of 1843, Mr. Adams visited Lebanon Springs, N. Y., for the benefit of his health,
which had become somewhat impaired, and also the health of a cherished member of his family.
He designed to devote only four or five days to this journey; but he was so highly pleased
with the small portion of the State of New York he saw at Lebanon Springs, that he was induced
to proceed further. He visited Saratoga, Lake Georgia, Lower Canada, Montreal and Quebec. Returning,
he ascended the St. Lawrence and the Lakes as far as Niagara Falls and Buffalo, and by the
way of Rochester, Auburn, Utica and Albany, sought his home in Quincy with health greatly improved.

Although Mr. Adams had many bitter enemies--made so by his fearless independence, and the stern
integrity with which he discharged the public duties entrusted to him--yet in the hearts of
the people he ever occupied the highest position. They not only respected and admired the politician,
the statesman, but they venerated the MAN! they loved him for his purity, his philanthropy,
his disinterested patriotism, his devotion to freedom and human rights. All this was manifested
during his tour through New York. It was marked in its whole extent by demonstrations of the
highest attention and respect from people of all parties. Public greetings, processions, celebrations,
met him and accompanied him at every step of his journey. Never since the visit of La Fayette,
had such an anxious desire to honor a great and good man been manifested by the entire mass
of the people. His progress was one continued triumphal procession. "I may say," exclaimed
Mr. Adams, near the close of his tour, "without being charged with pride or vanity, I have
come not alone, for the whole people of the State of New York have been my companions!"

At Buffalo he was received with every possible demonstration of respect. The national ensign
was streaming from an hundred masts, and the wharves, and the decks and rigging of the vessels,
were crowded by thousands anxious to catch a glimpse of the renowned statesman and patriot,
who was greeted by repeated cheers. Hon. Millard Fillmore addressed him with great eloquence.
The following is the conclusion of his speech:--

"You see around you, sir, no political partisans seeking to promote some sinister purpose;
but you see here assembled the people of our infant city, without distinction of party, sex,
age, or condition--all, all anxiously vieing with each other to show their respect and esteem
for your public services and private worth. Here are gathered, in this vast multitude of what
must appear to you strange faces, thousands whose hearts have vibrated to the chord of sympathy
which your written speeches have touched. Here is reflecting age, and ardent youth, and lisping
childhood, to all of whom your venerated name is as dear as household words all anxious to
feast their eyes by a sight of that extraordinary and venerable man, of whom they have heard,
and read, and thought so much--all anxious to hear the voice of that 'old man eloquent,' on
whose lips wisdom has distilled her choicest nectar. Here, sir, you see them all, and read
in their eager and joy-gladdened countenances, and brightly-beaming eyes, a welcome--a thrice-told,
heart-felt, soul-stirring welcome to 'the man whom they delight to honor.'"

Mr. Adams responded to this speech in a strain of most interesting remarks. He commenced as
follows:--

"I must request your indulgence for a moment's pause to take breath. If you inquire why I ask
this indulgence, it is because I am so overpowered by the eloquence of my friend, the chairman
of the Committee of Ways and Means, (whom I have been so long accustomed to refer to in that
capacity, that, with your permission, I will continue so to denominate him now,) that I have
no words left to answer him. For so liberal has he been in bestowing that eloquence upon me
which he himself possesses in so eminent a degree, that while he was ascribing to me talents
so far above my own consciousness in that regard, I was all the time imploring the god of eloquence
to give me, at least at this moment, a few words to justify him before you in making that splendid
panegyric which he has been pleased to bestow upon me; and that the flattering picture which
he has presented to you, may not immediately be defaced before your eyes by what you should
hear from me. * * * * * *

In concluding his remarks he said:--"Of your attachment to moral principle I have this day
had another and pleasing proof in the dinner of which I have partaken in the steamer, in which,
by your kindness, I have been conveyed to this place. It was a sumptuous dinner, but at which
temperance was the presiding power. I congratulate you on the evidence there exhibited of your
attachment to moral principle, in your co-operation in that great movement which is promoting
the happiness and elevation of man in every quarter of the globe.

"And here you will permit me to allude to an incident which has occurred in my recent visit
to Canada, in which I perceived the cooperation of the people of that Province in the same
great moral reformation. While at Quebec, I visited the falls of Montmorenci, a cataract which,
but for yours, would be among the greatest wonders of nature. In going to it, I passed through
the parish of Beauport, and there, by the side of the way, I saw a column with an inscription
upon its pedestal, which I had the curiosity to stop and read. It was erected by the people
of Beauport in gratitude to the Virgin, for her goodness in promoting the cause of temperance
in that parish. Perhaps I do not sufficiently sympathize with the people of Beauport in attributing
to the Virgin so direct an influence upon this moral reform; but in the spirit with which they
erected that monument I do most cordially sympathize with them. For, under whatever influence
the cause may be promoted, the cause itself can never fail to make its votaries wiser and better
men. I cannot make a speech. My heart is too full, and my voice too feeble. Farewell! And with
that farewell; may the blessings of heaven be upon you throughout your lives!"

Mr. Adams was greatly delighted with his visit to Niagara Falls. A letter-writer thus describes
it:--

"Mr. Adams seems incapable of fatigue, either physical or mental. After a drive in the morning
to Lewiston, he stopped, on his return to the Falls, at the whirlpool. The descent to the water's
edge, which is not often made, is, as you will remember, all but vertical, down a steep of
some three hundred and sixty feet. One of the party was about going down, when Mr. Adams remarked
that he would accompany him. Gen. Porter and the other gentlemen present remonstrated, and
told him it was a very severe undertaking for a young and hearty man, and that he would find
it, in such a hot day, quite impracticable. He seemed, however, to know his capacities; and
this old man, verging on four score years, not only made the descent, but clambered over almost
impracticable rocks along the margin of the river, to obtain the various views presented at
different points. The return was not easy, but he was quite adequate to the labor; and after
resting a few minutes at the summit, resumed his ride, full of spirits and of animated and
instructive conversation. After dinner, he crossed over to Goat Island, and beheld the cataract
from the various points, and continued his explorations until all was obscured by darkness.
He seemed greatly impressed by the wonderful contrast presented by the scene of rage and repose--of
the wild and furious dashing of the mighty river down the rapids, with its mad plunge over
the precipice--and the sullen stillness of the abyss of waters below. I wish I could repeat
to you his striking conversation during these rambles, replete with brilliant classical allusions,
historical illustrations, and the most minute, and as it seemed to me, universal information.
* * * * * * I sincerely concur with the worthy captain of one of our steamboats, who said to
me the other day,--'Oh, that we could take the engine out of the old "Adams," and put it into
a new hull!'"

During his visit at the Falls, Mr. Adams, on a Sabbath morning, accompanied by Gen. Porter,
visited the remnant of the Tuscarora Indians, and attended divine service in their midst. At
the conclusion of the sermon, Mr. Adams made a brief address to the Indians, which is thus
described by the letter-writer alluded to above:--

"Mr. Adams alluded to his advanced age, and said this was the first time he had ever looked
upon their beautiful fields and forests--that he was truly happy to meet them there and join
with them in the worship of our common Parent--reminded them that in years past he had addressed
them from the position which he then occupied, in language, at once that of his station and
his heart, as 'his children'--and that now, as a private citizen, he hailed them in terms of
equal warmth and endearment, as his 'brethren and sisters.' He alluded, with a simple eloquence
which seemed to move the Indians much, to the equal care and love with which God regards all
his children, whether savage or civilized, and to the common destiny which awaits them hereafter,
however various their lot here. He touched briefly and forcibly on the topics of the sermon
which they had heard, and concluded with a beautiful and touching benediction upon them."

At Rochester immense multitudes assembled to receive Mr. Adams. He was welcomed in an eloquent
address from the Mayor of the city. The following are a few extracts from the reply of Mr. Adams:--

"Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens:--I fear you expect from me a speech. If it were in my power,
oppressed as I am with mingled astonishment and gratitude at what I have experienced and now
see of your kindness, to make a speech, I would gratify you with one adorned with all the chaste
yet simple eloquence which are combined in the address to which you have just listened from
your worthy Mayor. But it is not in my power. You may probably think there is some affectation
on my part, in pretending inability to address you, knowing as many of you do, that I have
often addressed assemblies like this. But I hope for greater indulgence from you than this.
I trust you will consider that I have seen and spoken to multitudes like that now before me,
but that these multitudes had frowning faces. Those I could meet, and to those I could speak.
But to you, whose every face is expressive of generous affection--to you, in whose every countenance
I see kindness and friendship--I cannot speak. It is too much for me. It overcomes my powers
of speech. It is a new scene to me.

* * * * * *

"Amongst the sentiments which I have expressed, and the observations which I have made during
my brief tour through this portion of your State, it was impossible for me to forego a constant
comparison with what New York was in other days, and what it is now. I first set my feet upon
the soil of the now Empire State, in 1785. I then visited the city of New York,--at that time
a town of 18,000 inhabitants. I tarried, while in that city, at the house of John Jay--a man
whom I name, and whom all will remember, as one of the most illustrious of the distinguished
patriots who carried our beloved country through the dark period of the Revolution. Mr. Jay,
the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, under the Congress of the Federation, was laying the foundation
of a house in Broadway, but which was separated by the distance of a quarter of a mile from
any other dwelling. At that time, being eighteen years of age, I received an invitation to
visit western New York; and I have regretted often, but never more than now, that I had not
accepted that invitation. Oh! what would I not have given to have seen this part of this great
State then, that I might be able to contrast it with what it now is. * * * * *

"It has seemed to me as if in this region the God of nature intended to make a more sublime
display of his power, than in any other portion of the world. He has done so in physical nature--in
the majestic cataract, whose sound you can almost hear--in forest and in field--in the mind
of man among you, In what has been accomplished to make your city what it is, the aged have
done the most. The middle aged may say we will improve upon what has been done; and the young,
we shall accomplish still more than our fathers. That, fellow-citizens, was the boast in the
ancient Spartan procession--a procession which was divided into three classes--the old, the
middle-aged, and the young. They had a saying which each class repeated in turn. The aged said--

  'We have been, in days of old,
   Wise and gentle, brave and bold.'

The middle-aged said--

  'We, in turn, your place supply;
   Who doubts it, let them come and try.'

And the boys said--

  'Hereafter, at our country's call,
   We promise to surpass you all.'

And so it will be with you--each in your order."

At Auburn every possible token of respect was paid to the venerable statesman. A committee
consisting of ex-Gov. Seward, Judge Conklin, Judge Miller, Luman Sherwood, P. H. Perry, S.
A. Goodwin, James C. Wood, and J. L. Doty, Esqs., proceeded to Canandaigua to meet Mr. Adams.
At half past nine o'clock in the evening, Mr. Adams, accompanied by the committee, arrived
in Auburn. He was received by a torch-light procession, composed of the Auburn Guards, the
Firemen, and an immense concourse of citizens, and conducted to the mansion of Gov. Seward,
where he thus briefly addressed the people:--

"Fellow-citizens:--Notwithstanding the glow with which these brilliant torch-lights illuminate
my welcome among you, I can only acknowledge your kindness, on this occasion, by assuring you
that to-morrow morning, by the light of the blessed sun, I hope to take everyone of you by
the hand, and express feelings too strong for immediate utterance."

On the following morning at six o'clock, Mr. Adams visited the State Prison, and made many
inquiries concerning the discipline of the prison, and its success in the prevention of crime
and reformation of offenders. At 9 o'clock he met the citizens in the First Presbyterian church,
where he was addressed by Gov. Seward, as follows:--

"SIR:--I am charged with the very honorable and most agreeable duty, of expressing to you the
reverence and affectionate esteem of my fellow-citizens, assembled in your presence.

"A change has come over the spirit of your journey, since your steps have turned towards your
ancestral sea-side home. An excursion to invigorate health impaired by labors, too arduous
for age, in the public councils, and expected to be quiet and contemplative, has become one
of fatigue and excitement. Rumors of your advance escape before you, and a happy and grateful
community rise up in their clustering cities, towns, and villages, impede your way with demonstrations
of respect and kindness, and convert your unpretending journey into a triumphal progress. Such
honors frequently attend public functionaries, and such an one may sometimes find it difficult
to determine how much of the homage he receives is paid to his own worth, how much proceeds
from the habitual reverence of good republican citizens to constituted elective authority,
and how much from the spirit of venal adulation.

"You, sir, labor under no such embarrassment. The office you hold, though honorable, is purely
legislative, and such as we can bestow by our immediate suffrage on one of ourselves. You conferred
personal benefits sparingly when you held the patronage of the nation. That patronage you have
relinquished, and can never regain. Your hands will be uplifted often, during your remaining
days, to invoke blessings on your country, but never again to distribute honors or reward among
your countrymen. The homage paid you, dear sir, is sincere, for it has its sources in the just
sentiments and irrepressible affections of a free people, their love of truth, their admiration
of wisdom, their reverence for virtue, and their gratitude for beneficence.

"Nor need you fear that enthusiasm exaggerates your title to the public regard. Your fellow-citizens,
in spite of political prudence, could not avoid honoring you on grounds altogether irrespective
of personal merit. John Adams, who has gone to receive the reward of the just, was one of the
most efficient and illustrious founders of this Empire, and afterwards its Chief Ruler. The
son of such a father would, in any other age, and even in this age, in any other country than
this, have been entitled, by birth alone, to a sceptre. We not merely deny hereditary claims
to civil trust, but regard even hereditary distinction with jealousy. And this circumstance
enhances justly the estimate of your worth. For when before has it happened that in such a
condition of society the son has, by mere civic achievement, attained the eminence of such
a sire, and effaced remembrance of birth by justly acquired renown?

"The hand we now so eagerly grasp, was pressed in confidence and friendship by the Father of
our Country. The wreath we place on your honored brow, received its earliest leaves from the
hand of Washington. We cannot expect, with the agency of free and universal suffrage, to be
always governed by the wise and the good. But surely your predecessors in the Chief Magistracy,
were men such as never before successively wielded power in any State. They differed in policy
as they must, and yet, throughout their several dynasties, without any sacrifice of personal
independence, and while passing from immature youth to ripened age, you were counsellor and
minister to them all. We seem therefore, in this interview with you, to come into the presence
of our departed chiefs; the majestic shade of Washington looks down upon us; we hear the bold
and manly eloquence of the elder Adams; and we listen to the voices of the philosophic and
sagacious Jefferson, the refined and modest Madison, and the generous and faithful Monroe.

"A life of such eminent patriotism and fidelity found its proper reward in your elevation to
the eminence from which you had justly derived so many honors. Although your administration
of the government is yet too recent for impartial history, or unbounded eulogy, our grateful
remembrance of it is evinced by the congratulations you now receive from your fellow-citizens.

"But your claims to the veneration of your countrymen do not end here. Your predecessors descended
from the Chief Magistracy to enjoy, in repose and tranquillity, honors even greater than those
which belonged to that eminent station. It was reserved for you to illustrate the important
truths, that offices and trusts are not the end of public service, but are merely incidents
in the life of the true American citizen; that duties remain when the highest trust is resigned;
and that there is scope for a pure and benevolent ambition beyond even the Presidency of the
United States of America.

"You have devoted the energies of a mind unperverted, the learning and experience acquired
through more than sixty years, and even the influence and fame derived from your high career
of public service, to the great cause of universal liberty. The praises we bestow are already
echoed back to us by voices which come rich and full across the Atlantic, hailing you as the
indefatigable champion of humanity--not the humanity which embraces a single race or clime,
but that humanity which regards the whole family of MAN. Such salutations as these cannot be
mistaken. They come not from your contemporaries, for they are gone--you are not of this generation,
but of the PAST, spared to hear the voice of POSTERITY. The greetings you receive come up from
the dark and uncertain FUTURE. They are the whisperings of posthumous FAME--fame which impatiently
awaits your departure, and which, spreading wider and growing more and more distinct, will
award to JOHN QUINCY ADAMS a name to live with that of WASHINGTON!"

The audience expressed their sympathy with this address by long and enthusiastic cheering.
When order was restored, Mr. Adams rose, evidently under great and unaffected embarrassment.

He replied to the speech in an address of about half an hour, during which the attention of
his audience was riveted upon the speaker, with intense interest and affection. He declared
the embarrassment he felt in speaking. He was sensible that his fellow-citizens had laid aside
all partizan feelings in coming up to greet him. He desired to speak what would not wound the
feelings of anyone. He was grateful, deeply grateful, to them all. But on what subject of public
interest could a public man speak, that would find harmony among an intelligent, thinking people?
There were such subjects, but he could not speak of them.

The people of Western New York had always been eminently just and generous to him, and had
recently proved their kindness on various occasions, by inviting him to address the State Agricultural
Society on agriculture. But his life had been spent in the closet, in diplomacy, or in the
cabinet; and he had not learned the practice, or even the theory of agriculture. After what
he had seen of the harvests of Western New York, bursting with food for the sustenance of man,
for him to address the people of such a district on agriculture, would be as absurd as the
vanity of the rhetorician who went to Carthage to instruct Hannibal in the art of war. He had
been solicited to address the young. In his life time he had been an instructor of youth, and,
strange as from his present display they might think it, he had instructed them in the art
of eloquence. And there was no more honorable office on earth than instructing the young. But
the schools and seminaries had passed him, while he was engaged in other pursuits; and for
him now to attempt to instruct the young of this generation, would evince only the garrulousness
of age.

He had been invited to discourse on internal improvement; but that was a subject he feared
to touch. On one point, however, all men agreed. All were in favor of internal improvement.
But there was a balance between the reasonable sacrifices of this generation, and the burden
it had a right to cast upon posterity, and every individual might justly claim to hold his
balance for himself. One thing, however, he was sure he might assume with safety. In looking
over the State of New York, upon its canals and railroads, which brought the borders of the
State into contiguity, and its citizens in every part into communion with each other, he was
sure that all rejoiced, and might well glory in what had been accomplished.

Mr. A. said he had read and endeavored to inform himself concerning prison discipline, a subject
deeply interesting to the peace, good order, and welfare of society; but after his examination
of the penitentiary here, he was satisfied that he was yet a learner, instead of being able
to give instruction on that important subject.

He had been asked to enlist in the growing army of temperance, and discourse on that cause,
so deeply cherished by every well wisher of our country. And he would cheerfully speak; but
other and more devoted men had occupied the field, and what was left for him to say on temperance?
In passing through Catholic Lower Canada he saw a column erected to the Virgin Mary, in gratitude
for her promotion of the temperance cause. If indeed the blessed Virgin did lend her aid to
that great work, it would almost win him to worship at her shrine, although he belonged to
that class of people who rejected the invocation of saints.

He felt, therefore, that he had no subject on which to address them, but himself and his own
public life. The experience of an old man, related by himself, would, he feared, be more irksome
than profitable.

"What, then, am I to say? I am summoned here to speak, and to reply to what has been said to
me by my respected friend, your late Chief Magistrate. And what is the theme he has given me?
It is myself. And what can I say on such a subject? To know that he entertains, or that you
entertain for me the sentiments he has expressed, absolutely overpowers me. I cannot go on.
The only answer I can make, is a declaration, that during my public service, now protracted
to nearly the age of eighty, I have endeavored to serve my country honestly and faithfully.
How imperfectly I have done this, none seem so sensible as myself. I must stop. I can only
repeat thanks, thanks, thanks to you, one and all, and implore the blessings of God upon you
and your children."

At the conclusion of this reply, Mr. Adams was introduced to a large number of the ladies and
gentlemen assembled in the church. He then returned to the American Hotel, where he remained
an hour, receiving the visits of the citizens of the adjoining towns. At 11 o'clock the Auburn
Guards escorted Mr. Adams and the committee, followed by a large procession, to the car-house.
Accompanied by Gov. Seward, Judge Miller, Hon. Christopher Morgan, the committee, Auburn Guards,
and a number of the citizens of Auburn, he was conveyed in an extra train of cars, in an hour
and five minutes, to Syracuse.

At Syracuse, at Utica, at Albany, the same spontaneous outgushing manifestations of respect
and affection met him that had hitherto attended his journey in every populous place through
which he passed. In his reply to the address of Mr. Barnard, at Albany, he concluded in the
following words:--

"Lingering as I am on the stage of public life, and, as many of you may think, lingering beyond
the period when nature calls for repose--while I remain in the station which I now occupy in
the Congress of the United States, if you, my hearers, as an assembly, or if anyone among you,
as an individual, have any object or purpose to promote, or any end to secure that he believes
can in any way advance his interests or increase his happiness, then, in the name of God, I
ask you to send your petitions to me! (Tremendous cheering.) I hope this is not trespassing
too far on politics. (Laughter, and cheers.) I unhesitatingly promise you, one and all, that
if I can in any way serve you in that station, I will do it most cheerfully; regarding it as
the choicest blessing of God, if I shall thus be enabled to make some just return for the kind
attentions which you have this day bestowed upon me."

In his route homeward, Mr. Adams was received and entertained in a very handsome manner by
the people of Pittsfield, Mass. He was addressed by Hon. George N. Briggs, who alluded, in
eloquent terms, to his long and distinguished public services. Mr. Adams, in reply, spoke of
the scenes amidst which he had passed his early youth, and of the influence which they exerted
in forming his character and shaping his purposes. "In 1775," said he, "the minute men from
a hundred towns in the province were marching, at a moment's warning, to the scene of opening
war. Many of them called at my father's house in Quincy, and received the hospitality of John
Adams. All were lodged in the house which the house would contain; others in the barns, and
wherever they could find a place. There were then in my father's kitchen some dozen or two
of pewter spoons; and I well recollect going into the kitchen and seeing some of the men engaged
in running those spoons into bullets for the use of the troops! Do you wonder," said he, "that
a boy of seven years of age, who witnessed this scene, should be a patriot?"

In the fall of the same year, Mr. Adams received an invitation from the Cincinnati Astronomical
Society, to visit that city, and assist in the ceremony of laying the corner stone of an observatory,
to be erected on an eminence called Mount Ida. The invitation was accepted. On his journey
to Cincinnati, the same demonstrations of respect, the same eagerness to honor the aged patriarch
were manifested in the various cities and towns through which he passed, as on his summer tour.

324   LIFE OF JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

The ceremony of laying the corner stone took place on the 9th of November, 1843. Mr. Adams
delivered an address on the occasion, replete with eloquence, wisdom, philosophy, and religion.
The following beautiful extract will afford a specimen:--

"The various difficult, and, in many respects, opposite motives which have impelled mankind
to the study of the stars, have had a singular effect in complicating and confounding the recommendation
of the science. Religion, idolatry, superstition, curiosity, the thirst for knowledge, the
passion for penetrating the secrets of nature, the warfare of the huntsman by night and by
day against the beast of the forest and of the field, the meditations of the shepherd in the
custody and wanderings of his flocks, the influence of the revolving seasons of the year, and
the successive garniture of the firmament upon the labors of the husbandman, upon the seed
time and the harvest, the blooming of flowers, the ripening of the vintage, the polar pilot
of the navigator, and the mysterious magnet of the mariner--all, in harmonious action, stimulate
the child of earth and of heaven to interrogate the dazzling splendors of the sky, to reveal
to him the laws of their own existence.

"He has his own comforts, his own happiness, his own existence, identified with theirs. He
sees the Creator in creation, and calls upon creation to declare the glory of the Creator.
When Pythagoras, the philosopher of the Grecian schools, conceived that more than earthly idea
of 'the music of the spheres'--when the great dramatist of nature could inspire the lips of
his lover on the moonlight green with the beloved of his soul, to say to her:--

  'Sit, Jessica.--Look how the floor of Heaven
   Is thick inlaid with pattens of bright gold!
   There's not the smallest orb which thou beholdest,
   But in his motion like an angel sings,
   Still choiring to the young eyed cherubim!'

"Oh, who is the one with a heart, but almost wishes to cast off this muddy vesture of decay,
to be admitted to the joy of listening to the celestial harmony!"

The last time Mr. Adams appeared in public in Boston, he presided at a meeting of the citizens
of that city, in Faneuil Hall. "A man had been kidnapped in Boston--kidnapped at noon-day,
'on the high road between Faneuil Hall and old Quincy,' and carried  off to be a slave! New
England hands had seized their brother, sold him into bondage forever, and his children after
him. A meeting was called to talk the matter over, in a plain way, and look in one another's
faces. Who was fit to preside in such a case? That old man sat in the chair in Faneuil Hall.
Above him was the image of his father and his own; around him were Hancock and the other Adams,
and Washington, greatest of all. Before him were the men and women of Boston, met to consider
the wrongs done to a miserable negro slave. The roof of the old Cradle of Liberty spanned over
them all. Forty years before, a young man and a Senator, he had taken the chair at a meeting
called to consult on the wrong done to American seamen, violently impressed by the British
from an American ship of war--the unlucky Chesapeake. Now an old man, clothed with half a century
of honors, he sits in the same Hall, to preside over a meeting to consider the outrage done
to a single slave. One was the first meeting of citizens he ever presided over; the other was
the last: both for the same object--the defence of the eternal right!" [Footnote: Theodore Parker.]

Few men retain the health and vigor with which Mr. Adams was blessed in extreme old age. When
most others are decrepit and helpless, he was in the enjoyment of meridian strength and energy,
both of body and mind, and could endure labors which would prostrate many in the prime of manhood.
An instance of his powers of endurance is furnished in his journey to Washington, to attend
the opening of Congress, when in the 74th year of his age. On Monday morning he left Boston,
and the same evening delivered a lecture before the Young Men's Institute, in Hartford, Conn.
The next day he proceeded to New Haven, and in the evening lectured before a similar Institute
in that city. Wednesday he pursued his journey to New York, and in the evening lectured before
the New York Lyceum, in the Broadway Tabernacle. Thursday evening he delivered an address before
an association in Brooklyn; and on Friday evening delivered a second lecture before the New
York Lyceum. Here were labors which would seriously tax the constitution of vigorous youth;
and yet Mr. Adams performed them with much comparative ease.

His great longevity, and his general good health, must be attributed, in no small degree, to
his abstemious and temperate habits, early rising, and active exercise. He took pleasure in
athletic amusements, and was exceedingly fond of walking. During his summer residence in Quincy,
he has been known to walk to his son's residence in Boston (seven miles,) before breakfast.
"While President of the United States, he was probably the first man up in Washington, lighted
his own fire, and was hard at work in his library, while sleep yet held in its obliviousness
the great mass of his fellow-citizens." He was an expert swimmer, and was in the constant habit
of bathing, whenever circumstances would permit. Not unfrequently the first beams of the rising
sun, as they fell upon the beautiful Potomac, would find Mr. Adams buffeting its waves with
all the sportiveness and dexterity of boyhood, while a single attendant watched upon the shore.
When in the Presidency, he sometimes made a journey from Washington to Quincy on horseback,
as a simple citizen, accompanied only by a servant.

More than four score years had sprinkled their frosts upon his brow, and still he was in the
midst of his usefulness. Promptly at his post in the Hall of Representatives stood the veteran
sentinel, watching vigilantly over the interests of his country. With an eye undimmed by age,
a quick ear, a ready hand, an intellect unimpaired, he guarded the citadel of liberty, ever
on the alert to detect, and mighty to repel, the approach of the foe, however covert or however
open his attacks. Never did the Union, never did freedom, the world, more need his services
than now. A large territory, of sufficient extent to form several States, had been blighted
by slavery, and annexed to the United Sates. A sanguinary and expensive war, growing out of
this strengthening of the slave power, had just terminated, adding to the Union still larger
territories--now free soil indeed, but furnishing a field for renewed battles between slavery
and liberty. New revolutions were about to break forth in Europe, to convulse the Eastern Hemisphere,
and cause old thrones to totter and fall!

How momentous the era! How deeply fraught with the prosperity of the American Republic--with
the progress of man--the freedom of nations--the happiness of succeeding generations! How could
he, who for years had prominently and nobly stood forth, as the leader of the hosts contending
for the rights and the liberties of humanity, be spared from his post at such a juncture? Who
could put on his armor?--who wield his weapons?--who "lead a forlorn hope," or mount a deadly
breach in battles which might yet be waged between the sons of freedom and the propagators
of slavery? But the loss was to be experienced. A wise and good Providence had so ordered.
The sands of his life had run out. A voice from on high called him away from earth's stormy
struggles, to bright and peaceful scenes in the spirit land. He could no longer tarry. Death
found the faithful veteran at his post, with his harness on. How applicable the words of Scott,
on the departure of Pitt:--

  "Hadst thou but lived, though stripp'd of power,
   A watchman on the lonely tower,
   Thy thrilling trump had roused the land,
   When fraud or danger were at hand;
   By thee, as by the beacon-light,
   Our pilots had kept course aright;
   As some proud column, though alone,
   Thy strength had propp'd the tottering throne.

It has been supposed by some that the remote cause of Mr. Adams's death was a severe injury
he received by a fall in the House of Representatives, in June, 1840. The accident is thus
described by an eye witness:--

"It had been a very warm day, and the debates had partaken of extraordinary excitement, when,
a few moments before sunset, the House adjourned, and most of the members had sought relief
from an oppressive atmosphere, in the arbors and recesses of the adjoining Congressional gardens.

"At that time I held a subordinate clerkship in the House, which usually confined me, the larger
portion of the day not devoted to debate, to one of the committee rooms; whilst the balance
of the day I occupied as a reporter.

"Mr. Adams was always the first man in the House, and the last man out of it; and, as I usually
detained myself an hour or more after adjournment, in writing up my notes, I often came in
contact with him. He was pleased to call at my desk very often, before he went home, and indulge
in some incidental, unimportant conversation. On the day referred to, just as the sun was setting,
and was throwing his last rays through the murky hall, I looked up, and saw Mr. Adams approaching.
He had almost reached my desk, and had uplifted his hand in friendly salutation, when he pitched
headlong, some six or eight feet, and struck his head against the sharp corner of an iron rail
that defended one of the entrance aisles leading to the circle within the bar, inflicting a
heavy contusion on his forehead, and rendering him insensible. I instantly leaped from my seat,
took the prostrate sufferer in my arms, and found that he was in a state of utter stupor and
insensibility. Looking around for aid, I had the good fortune to find that Col. James Munroe,
of the New York delegation, had just returned to his desk to procure a paper he had forgotten,
when, giving the alarm, he flew to the rescue, manifesting the deepest solicitude for the welfare
of the venerable statesman. Follansbee, the doorkeeper, with two or more of his pages, came
in next; and after we had applied a plentiful supply of cold water to the sufferer, he returned
to consciousness, and requested that he might be taken to his residence. In less than five
minutes, Mr. Moses H. Grinnell, Mr. George H. Profit, Mr. Ogden Hoffman, and Col. Christopher
Williams, of Tennessee, were called in, a carriage was procured, and Mr. Adams was being conveyed
to his residence in President Square, when, it being ascertained that his shoulder was dislocated,
the carriage was stopped at the door of the private hotel of Col. Munroe, in Pennsylvania Avenue,
between Eleventh and Twelfth streets; the suffering, but not complaining statesman, was taken
out, and surgical aid instantly put in requisition. Doctor Sewall was sent for; when it was
ascertained that the left shoulder-joint was out of the socket; and, though Mr. Adams must
have suffered intensely, he complained not--did not utter a groan or a murmur.

"More than an hour elapsed before the dislocated limb could be adjusted; and to effect which,
his arm endured, in a concentrated and continued wrench or pull, many minutes at a time, the
united strength of Messrs. Grinnell, Munroe, Profit, and Hoffman. Still Mr. Adams uttered not
a murmur, though the great drops of sweat that rolled down his furrowed cheeks, or stood upon
his brow, told but too well the physical agony he endured. As soon as his arm was adjusted,
he insisted on being carried home, and his wishes were complied with.

"The next morning I was at the capitol at a very early hour, attending to some writing. I thought
of, and lamented the accident that had befallen Mr. Adams, and had already commenced writing
an account of it to a correspondent. At that instant I withdrew my eyes from the paper on which
I was writing, and saw Mr. Adams standing a foot or two from me, carefully examining the carpeting.
'Sir,' said he, 'I am looking for that place in the matting that last night tripped me. If
it be not fastened down, it may kill some one.' And then he continued his search for the trick-string
matting."

Mr. Adams after this accident did not enjoy as sound health as in previous years, yet was more
active and vigorous than the majority of those who attain to his age. But on the 20th of November,
1846, he experienced the first blow of the fatal disease which eventually terminated his existence.

On the morning of that day, while sojourning at the residence of his son, in Boston, preparing
to depart for Washington, he was walking out with a friend to visit a new Medical College,
and was struck with paralysis by the way. This affliction confined him several weeks, when
he obtained sufficient strength to proceed to Washington, and enter upon his duties in the
House of Representatives. He viewed this attack as the touch of death. An interregnum of nearly
four months occurs in his journal. The next entry is under the head of "Posthumous Memoir."
After describing his recent sickness, he continues:--"From that hour I date my decease, and
consider myself, for every useful purpose, to myself and fellow-creatures, dead; and hence
I call this, and what I may hereafter write, a posthumous memoir."

Although he was after this, regular in his attendance at the House of Representatives, yet
he did not mingle as freely in debate as formerly. He passed the following summer, as usual,
at his seat in Quincy. In November, he left his native town for Washington, to return no more
in life!

On Sunday, the 20th of February, 1848, he appeared in unusual health. In the forenoon he attended
public worship at the capitol, and in the afternoon at St. John's church. At nine o'clock in
the evening he retired with his wife to his library, where she read to him a sermon of Bishop
Wilberforce, on Time--"hovering, as he was, on the verge of eternity!" This was the last night
he passed beneath his own roof.

Monday, the 21st, he rose at his usual very early hour, and engaged in his accustomed occupations
with his pen. An extraordinary alacrity pervaded his movements, and the cheerful step with
which he ascended the steps of the capitol was remarked by his attendants. He occupied a portion
of the forenoon in composing a few stanzas of poetry, at the request of a friend, and had signed
his name twice for members who desired to obtain his autograph.

Mr. Chase had introduced a resolution of thanks to Generals Twiggs, Worth, Quitman, Pillow,
Shields, Pearce, Cadwalader, and Smith, for their services in the Mexican war, and awarding
them gold medals. Mr. Adams was in his seat, and voted on the two questions preliminary to
ordering its engrossment, with an uncommonly emphatic tone of voice. About half past one o'clock,
P. M., as the Speaker had risen to put another question to the House, the proceedings were
suddenly interrupted by cries of "Stop!--stop!--Mr. Adams!" There was a quick movement towards
the chair of Mr. Adams, by two or three members, and in a moment he was surrounded by a large
number of Representatives, eagerly inquiring--"What's the matter?"--"Has he fainted?"--"Is
he dead?" JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, while faithful at his post, and apparently about to rise to address
the Speaker, had sunk into a state of unconsciousness! He had been struck a second time with
paralysis. The scene was one of intense excitement. Pallor, anxiety, alarm, were depicted on
every countenance. "Take him out,"--"Bring water,"--exclaimed several voices. He had been prevented
from falling to the floor by a member from Ohio, whose seat was near his--Mr. Fisher--who received
him in his arms. Immediately Mr. Grinnell, one of his colleagues from Massachusetts, was by
his side, keeping off a press of anxious friends, and bathing his face with iced water.

"He was immediately lifted into the area in front of the Clerk's table. The Speaker instantly
suggested that some gentleman move an adjournment, which being promptly done, the House adjourned.
A sofa was brought, and Mr. Adams, in a state of perfect helplessness, though not of entire
insensibility, was gently laid upon it. The sofa was then taken up and borne out of the Hall
into the Rotunda, where it was set down, and the members of both Houses, and strangers, who
were fast crowding around, were with some difficulty repressed, and an open space cleared in
its immediate vicinity; but a medical gentleman, a member of the House, (who was prompt, active,
and self-possessed throughout the whole painful scene,) advised that he be removed to the door
of the Rotunda opening on the east portico, where a fresh wind was blowing. This was done;
but the air being chilly and loaded with vapor, the sofa was, at the suggestion of Mr. Winthrop,
once more taken up and removed to the Speaker's apartment, the doors of which were forthwith
closed to all but professional gentlemen and particular friends."

The features of the dying patriarch were almost as rigid as though in death: but there was
a serenity in his countenance which betokened an absence of pain. There were five physicians,
members of the House, present, viz.:--Drs. Newell, Fries, Edwards, Jones of Georgia, and Lord.
These gentlemen were unremitting in their attentions. Drs. Lindsley and Thomas, of the city,
were also immediately called in. Under the advice of the medical gentlemen present, he was
cupped, and mustard plasters were applied, which seemed to afford some relief. Reviving a little
and recovering consciousness, Mr. Adams inquired for his wife. She was present, but in extreme
illness, and suffering the most poignant sorrow. After a few moments' interval he relapsed
again into unconsciousness. A correspondent of the New York Express describes as follows the
progress of these melancholy events:--

"Half past one o'clock.--Mr. Benton communicated to the Senate the notice of the sudden illness
of Mr. Adams, and moved an adjournment of that body.

"Quarter to two.--Mr. Adams has several physicians with him, but exhibits no signs of returning
consciousness. The report is that he is sinking.

"Two o'clock.--Mr. Giddings informs me that he shows signs of life. He has just now attempted
to speak, but cannot articulate a word. Under medical advice he has submitted to leeching.

"Half past two.--Mrs. Adams and his niece and nephew are with him, and Mr. A. is no worse.
The reports, however, are quite contradictory, and many, despair of his recovery.

"Three o'clock.--None but the physicians and the family are present, and the reports again
become more and more doubtful. The physicians say that Mr. Adams may not live more than an
hour, or he may live two or three days.

"His right side is wholly paralyzed, and the left not under control, there being continually
involuntary motions of the muscles. Everything which medical aid can do, has been done for
his relief. Briefly, just now, by close attention, he seemed anxious to 'thank the officers
of the House.' Then, again, he was heard to say--'This is the last of earth! I AM CONTENT!'
These were the last words which fell from the lips of, 'the old man eloquent,' as his spirit
plumed its pinions to soar to other worlds."

Mr. Adams lay in the Speaker's room, in a state of apparent unconsciousness, through the 22d
and 23d,--Congress, in the meantime, assembling in respectful silence, and immediately adjourning
from day to day. The struggles of contending parties ceased--the strife for interest, place,
power, was hushed to repose. Silence reigned through the halls of the capitol, save the cautious
tread and whispered inquiry of anxious questioners. The soul of a sage, a patriot, a Christian,
is preparing to depart from the world!--no sound is heard to ruffle its sweet serenity!--a
calmness and peace, fitting the momentous occasion, prevail around!

The elements of life and death continued their uncertain balance, until seven o'clock, on the
evening of the 23d, when the spirit of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS bade adieu to earth forever, and winged
its flight to God.

  "Give forth thy chime, thou solemn bell,
  Thou grave, unfold thy marble cell;
   O earth! receive upon thy breast,
   The weary traveller to his rest.

  "O God! extend thy arms of love,
   A spirit seeketh thee above!
   Ye heav'nly palaces unclose,
   Receive the weary to repose."

The tidings of Mr. Adams' death flew on electrical wings to every portion of the Union. A statesman,
a philanthropist, a father of the Republic, had fallen. A nation heard, and were dissolved
in tears!

In the history of American statesmen, none lived a life so long in the public service--none
had trusts so numerous confided to their care--none died a death so glorious. Beneath the dome
of the nation's capitol; in the midst of the field of his highest usefulness, where he had
won fadeless laurels of renown; equipped with the armor in which he had fought so many battles
for truth and freedom, he fell beneath the shaft of the king of terrors. And how bright, how
enviable the reputation he left behind! As a man, pure, upright, benevolent, religious--his
hand unstained by a drop of human blood; uncharged, unsuspected of crime, of premeditated wrong,
of an immoral act, of an unchaste word--as a statesman, lofty and patriotic in all his purposes;
devoted to the interests of the people; sacredly exercising all power entrusted to his keeping
for the good of the public alone, unmindful of personal interest and aggrandizement; an enthusiastic
lover of liberty; a faithful, fearless defender of the rights of man! The sun of his life in
its lengthened course through the political heavens, was unobscured by a spot, undimmed by
a cloud; and when, at the close of the long day, it sank beneath the horizon, the whole firmament
glowed with the brilliancy of its reflected glories! Rulers, statesmen, legislators! study
and emulate such a life--seek after a character so beloved, a death so honorable, a fame so
immortal.

On the day succeeding Mr. Adams' death, when the two Houses of Congress met, the full attendance
of members, and a crowded auditory, attested the deep desire felt by all to witness the proceedings
which would take place in relation to the death of one who had long occupied so high a place
in the councils of the Republic. As soon as the House of Representatives was called to order,
the Speaker, (the Hon. Robert C. Winthrop of Massachusetts,) rose, and in a feeling manner
addressed the House as follows:--

"Gentlemen of the House of Representatives of the United States: It has been thought fit that
the Chair should announce officially to the House, an event already known to the members individually,
and which has filled all our hearts with sadness. A seat on this floor has been vacated, toward
which all eyes have been accustomed to turn with no common interest. A voice has been hushed
forever in this Hall, to which all ears have been wont to listen with profound reverence. A
venerable form has faded from our sight, around which we have daily clustered with an affectionate
regard. A name has been stricken from the roll of the living statesmen of our land, which has
been associated, for more than half a century, with the highest civil service, and the loftiest
civil renown.

"On Monday, the 21st instant, JOHN QUINCY ADAMS sunk in his seat, in presence of us all, by
a sudden illness, from which he never recovered; and he died, in the Speaker's room, at a quarter
past seven o'clock last evening, with the officers of the House and the delegation of his own
Massachusetts around him.

"Whatever advanced age, long experience, great ability, vast learning, accumulated public honors,
a spotless private character, and a firm religious faith, could do, to render anyone an object
of interest, respect, and admiration, they had done for this distinguished person; and interest,
respect, and admiration, are but feeble terms to express the feelings with which the members
of this House and the people of the country have long regarded him.

"After a life of eighty years, devoted from its earliest maturity to the public service, he
has at length gone to his rest. He has been privileged to die at his post; to fall while in
the discharge of his duties; to expire beneath the roof of the capitol; and to have his last
scene associated forever, in history, with the birthday of that illustrious patriot, whose
just discernment brought him first into the service of his country.

"The close of such a life, under such circumstances, is not an event for unmingled emotions.
We cannot find it in our hearts to regret, that he has died as he has died. He himself could
have desired no other end. 'This is the end of earth,' were his last words, uttered on the
day on which he fell. But we might also hear him exclaiming, as he left us--in a language hardly
less familiar to him than his native tongue--'Hoc est, nimirum, magis feliciter de vita migrare,
quam mori.'

"It is for others to suggest what honors shall be paid to his memory. No acts of ours are necessary
to his fame. But it may be due to ourselves and to the country, that the national sense of
his character and services should be fitly commemorated."

Mr. Holmes of South Carolina arose and addressed the House in most eloquent strains. The following
are extracts from his eulogy:--

"The mingled tones of sorrow, like the voice of many waters, have come unto us from a sister
State--Massachusetts weeping for her honored son. The State I have the honor in part to represent
once endured, with yours, a common suffering, battled for a common cause, and rejoiced in a
common triumph. Surely, then, it is meet that in this, the day of your affliction, we should
mingle our griefs.

"When a great man falls, the nation mourns; when a patriarch is removed, the people weep. Ours,
my associates, is no common bereavement. The chain which linked our hearts with the gifted
spirits of former times, has been rudely snapped. The lips from which flowed those living and
glorious truths that our fathers uttered, are closed in death! Yes, my friends, Death has been
among us! He has not entered the humble cottage of some unknown, ignoble peasant; he has knocked
audibly at the palace of a nation! His footstep has been heard in the Hall of State! He has
cloven down his victim in the midst of the councils of a people! He has borne in triumph from
among you the gravest, wisest, most reverend head! Ah! he has taken him as a trophy who was
once chief over many States, adorned with virtue, and learning, and truth; he has borne at
his chariot-wheels a renowned one of the earth.

"There was no incident in the birth, the life, the death of Mr. Adams, not intimately woven
with the history of the land. Born in the night of his country's tribulation, he heard the
first murmurs of discontent; he saw the first efforts for deliverance. Whilst yet a little
child, he listened with eagerness to the whispers of freedom as they breathed from the lips
of her almost inspired apostles: he caught the fire that was then kindled; his eye beamed with
the first ray; he watched the day spring from on high, and long before he departed from earth,
it was graciously vouchsafed unto him to behold the effulgence of her noontide glory. * * * * * * *

"He disrobed himself with dignity of the vestures of office, not to retire to the shades of
Quincy, but, in the maturity of his intellect, in the vigor of his thought, to leap into this
arena, and to continue, as he had begun, a disciple, an ardent devotee at the temple of his
country's freedom. How, in this department, he ministered to his country's wants, we all know,
and have witnessed. How often we have crowded into that aisle, and clustered around that now
vacant desk, to listen to the counsels of wisdom, as they fell from the lips of the venerable
sage, we can all remember, for it was but of yesterday. But what a change! How wondrous! how
sudden! 'Tis like a vision of the night. That form which we beheld but a few days since, is
now cold in death!

"But the last Sabbath, and in this hall, he worshipped with others. Now his spirit mingles
with the noble army of martyrs, and the just made perfect, in the eternal adoration of the
living God. With him "this is the end of earth." He sleeps the sleep that knows no waking.
He is gone--and forever! The sun that ushers in the morn of that next holy day, while it gilds
the lofty dome of the capitol, shall rest with soft and mellow light upon the consecrated spot
beneath whose turf forever lies the PATRIOT FATHER and the PATRIOT SAGE!"

The following resolutions were unanimously passed by the House of Representatives:--

"Resolved, That this House has heard with the deepest sensibility, of the death in this capitol
of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, a Member of the House from the State of Massachusetts.

"Resolved, That, as a testimony of respect for the memory of this distinguished statesman,
the officers and members of the House will wear the usual badge of mourning, and attend the
funeral in this hall on Saturday next, at 12 o'clock.

"Resolved, That a committee of thirty be appointed to superintend the funeral solemnities.

"Resolved, That the proceedings of this House in relation to the death of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
be communicated to the family of the deceased by the Clerk.

"Resolved, That the seat in this hall just vacated by the death of the late JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
be unoccupied for thirty days, and that it, together with the hall, remain clothed with the
symbol of mourning during that time.

"Resolved, That the Speaker appoint one member of this House from each State and Territory,
as a committee to escort the remains of our venerable friend, the Honorable JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,
to the place designated by his friends for his interment.

"Resolved, That this House, as a further mark of respect for the memory of the deceased, do
adjourn to Saturday next, the day appointed for the funeral."

In the Senate, after a formal annunciation of the death of Mr. Adams, in a message from the
House of Representatives, Mr. Davis, of Massachusetts, arose and delivered a feeling address,
on the life and services of the deceased patriot. The following are extracts:--

"Mr. President: By the recent affliction of my colleague, (Mr. Webster,) a painful duty devolves
upon me. The message just delivered from the House proves that the hand of God has been again
among us. A great and good man has gone from our midst. If, in speaking of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,
I can give utterance to the language of my own heart, I am confident I shall meet with a response
from the Senate.

"He was born in the then Province of Massachusetts, while she was girding herself for the great
revolutionary struggle which was then before her. His parentage is too well known to need even
an allusion; yet I may be pardoned if I say, that his father seemed born to aid in the establishment
of our free Government, and his mother was a suitable companion and co-laborer of such a patriot.
The cradle hymns of the child were the songs of liberty. The power and competence of man for
self-government were the topics which he most frequently heard discussed by the wise men of
the day, and the inspiration thus caught gave form and pressure to his after life. Thus early
imbued with the love of free institutions, educated by his father for the service of his country,
and early led by WASHINGTON to its altar, he has stood before the world as one of its eminent
statesmen. He has occupied, in turn, almost every place of honor which the country could give
him, and for more than half a century, has been thus identified with its history. * * * * *

"It is believed to have been the earnest wish of his heart to die, like Chatham, in the midst
of his labors. It was a sublime thought, that where he had toiled in the house of the nation,
in hours of the day devoted to its service, the stroke of death should reach him, and there
sever the ties of love and patriotism which bound him to earth. He fell in his seat, attacked
by paralysis, of which he had before been a subject. To describe the scene which ensued would
be impossible. It was more than the spontaneous gush of feeling which all such events call
forth, so much to the honor of our nature. It was the expression of reverence for his moral
worth, of admiration for his great intellectual endowments, and of veneration for his age and
public services. All gathered round the sufferer, and the strong sympathy and deep feeling
which were manifested, showed that the business of the House (which was instantly adjourned)
was forgotten amid the distressing anxieties of the moment. He was soon removed to the apartment
of the Speaker, where he remained surrounded by afflicted friends till the weary clay resigned
its immortal spirit. 'This is the end of earth!' Brief but emphatic words. They were among
the last uttered by the dying Christian."

When Mr. Davis had concluded his remarks, Mr. Benton, of Missouri, delivered a most beautiful
eulogy on the character of Mr. Adams. He said:--

"Mr. President: The voice of his native State has been heard through one of the Senators of
Massachusetts, announcing the death of her aged and most distinguished son. The voice of the
other Senator, (Mr. Webster,) is not heard, nor is his presence seen. A domestic calamity,
known to us all, and felt by us all, confines him to the chamber of private grief, while the
Senate is occupied with the public manifestations of a respect and sorrow which a national
loss inspires. In the absence of that Senator, and as the member of this body longest here,
it is not unfitting or unbecoming in me to second the motion which has been made for extending
the last honors of the Senate to him who, forty-five years ago, was a member of this body,
who, at the time of his death, was among the oldest members of the House of Representatives,
and who, putting the years of his service together, was the oldest of all the members of the
American Government.

"The eulogium of Mr. Adams is made in the facts of his life, which the Senator from Massachusetts
(Mr. Davis) has so strikingly stated, that, from early manhood to octogenarian age, he has
been constantly and most honorably employed in the public service. For a period of more than
fifty years, from the time of his first appointment as Minister abroad under Washington, to
his last election to the House of Representatives by the people of his native district, he
has been constantly retained in the public service, and that, not by the favor of a Sovereign,
or by hereditary title, but by the elections and appointments of republican Government. This
fact makes the eulogy of the illustrious deceased. For what, except a union of all the qualities
which command the esteem and confidence of man, could have ensured a public service so long,
by appointments free and popular, and from sources so various and exalted? Minister many times
abroad; member of this body; member of the House of Representatives; cabinet Minister; President
of the United States; such has been the galaxy of his splendid appointments. And what but moral
excellence the most perfect--intellectual ability the most eminent-- fidelity the most unwavering--service
the most useful, could have commanded such a succession of appointments so exalted, and from
sources so various and so eminent? Nothing less could have commanded such a series of appointments;
and accordingly we see the union of all these great qualities in him who has received them.

"In this long career of public service Mr. Adams was distinguished not only by faithful attention
to all the great duties of his stations, but to all their less and minor duties.  He was not
the Salaminian galley, to be launched only on extraordinary occasions, but he was the ready
vessel, always launched when the duties of his station required it, be the occasion great or
small. As President, as cabinet Minister, as Minister abroad, he examined all questions that
came before him, and examined all in all their parts, in all the minutiae of their detail,
as well as in all the vastness of their comprehension. As Senator, and as a member of the House
of Representatives, the obscure committee-room was as much the witness of his laborious application
to the drudgery of legislation, as the halls of the two Houses were to the ever ready speech,
replete with knowledge, which instructed all hearers, enlightened all subjects, and gave dignity
and ornament to debate.

"In the observance of all the proprieties of life, Mr. Adams was a most noble and impressive
example. He cultivated the minor as well as the greater virtues. Wherever his presence could
give aid and countenance to what was useful and honorable to man, there he was. In the exercises
of the school and of the college--in the meritorious meetings of the agricultural, mechanical,
and commercial societies--in attendance upon Divine worship--he gave the punctual attendance
rarely seen but in those who are free from the weight of public cares.

"Punctual to every duty, death found him at the post of duty; and where else could it have
found him, at any stage of his career, for the fifty years of his illustrious public life?
From the time of his first appointment by Washington to his last election by the people of
his native town, where could death have found him but at the post of duty? At that post, in
the fullness of age in the ripeness of renown, crowned with honors, surrounded by his family,
his friends, and admirers, and in the very presence of the national representation, he has
been gathered to his fathers, leaving behind him the memory of public services which are the
history of his country for half a century, and the example of a life, public and private, which
should be the study and the model of the generations of his countrymen."

At the conclusion of Mr. Benton's address, the following resolutions, introduced by Mr. Davis,
were passed by the Senate:--

"Resolved, That the Senate has received with deep sensibility the message from the House of
Representatives announcing the death of the Hon. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, a Representative from the
State of Massachusetts.

"Resolved, That, in token of respect for the memory of the deceased, the Senate will attend
his funeral at the hour appointed by the House of Representatives, and will wear the usual
badge of mourning for thirty days.

"Resolved, That, as a further mark of respect for the memory of the deceased, the Senate do
now adjourn until Saturday next, the time appointed for the funeral."

President Polk issued a Proclamation announcing to the nation its bereavement, and directing
the suspension of all public business for the day. The public offices were clothed in mourning.
Orders were issued from the War and Navy Departments, directing that at every military and
naval station, on the day after the order should be received, the honors customary to the illustrious
dead should be paid.

At 12 o'clock on Saturday, the 26th of February, the funeral took place in the capitol. It
was a solemn, an imposing scene. The Hall of Representatives was hung in sable habiliments.
The portraits of Washington and La Fayette, the beautiful statue of the Muse of History in
the car of Time, and the vacant chair of the deceased, were wreathed in crape. In the midst,
and the most conspicuous of all, was the coffin containing the remains of the illustrious dead,
covered with its velvet pall. The President of the United States, and the Heads of Departments,
the Members of both Houses of Congress, the Judges of the Supreme Court, the Foreign Ministers,
Officers of the Army and Navy, Members of State Legislatures, and an immense concourse of the
great, the wise, and the good, were present, to bestow honor on all that remained of the statesman,
the philosopher, and the Christian.

A discourse was delivered on the occasion, by the Rev. R. R. Gurley, chaplain to the House
of Representatives, from Job xi. 17, 18--"And thine age shall be clearer than the noon-day;
thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning: and thou shalt be secure, because there
is hope." The following are extracts from the sermon:--

"In some circumstances, on some occasions, we most naturally express our emotions in silence
and in tears. What voice of man can add to the impressiveness and solemnity of this scene?
The presence and aspect of this vast assembly, the Chief Magistrate, Counsellors, Judges, Senators,
and Representatives of the nation, distinguished officers of the army and the navy, and the
honored Ambassadors from foreign powers,--these symbols and badges of a universal mourning,
darkening this hall into sympathy with our sorrow, leave no place for the question, 'Know ye
not that a prince and a great man is fallen in Israel?' Near to us, indeed, has come the invisible
hand of the Almighty--that hand in which is the soul of every living thing, and the breath
of all mankind; in this very hall, from yonder seat, which he so long occupied, in the midst
of the representatives of the people, has it taken one full of years and honors, eminent, for
more than half a century, in various departments of the public service; who adorned every station,
even the highest, by his abilities and virtues; and whose influence, powerful in its beneficence,
is felt in many, if not in all the States of the civilized world. * * * * *

"Not more certainly is the body invigorated and preserved by suitable food, by manly exercises,
by the vital air, than are the intellectual and moral faculties by the investigation and reception
of divine truths, by habits of obedience to the divine will, by cheerful submission to the
order and discipline of Divine Providence. Nor let us ever distrust the Father of our spirits,
who knows perfectly all the wants of our nature, but rest assured that his commandments in
the sacred Scriptures are entirely in harmony with the decrees of his providence; and that
as to fear Him and keep His commandments is the whole duty (because the highest duty, and comprehending
all others), so will it prove the whole and eternal happiness of man. If the indissoluble and
harmonious connection between the laws of nature, of Providence and the moral law, be not always
obvious, it is always certain. Over all the darkness, disturbances, and evils of the world
shines revealed, more or less clearly, like the serene and cheerful heavens, this immutable
law, binding virtue, however obscure, persecuted, or forsaken, to reward; duty, however humble
or arduous, to happiness. Hence the declaration, that all things shall work together for good
to them who love God, and that all things are theirs--the past and future, things temporal
and spiritual, prosperity and adversity, angels, and principalities, and powers, and God himself,
in all the resources of his wisdom and all the eternity of his reign.

"How shone out, clear as the noonday, yet mild and gentle as the morning, even in age, in the
life and character of that great and venerable man, around whose precious, but, alas! inanimate
form we all press in gratitude, admiration, and love, those high virtues derived from faith
in God, and nurtured by his revealed truth, this bereaved Congress, and, I may add, this nation
witnesses. * * * * * *

"Truly emblematic of his moral integrity and strength of character would be the granite column
from his native hills, one and entire, just in its proportions, towering in its height, immoveable
in its foundations, and pointing to Heaven as the temple and throne of everlasting authority,
the final refuge, the imperishable home of all regenerated and faithful souls.

"Independence of mere human authority in the use of his reason, on all subjects, was united
with veneration most sincere and profound for the sacred Scriptures, as a supernatural revelation
from God, 'whose prerogative extends not less to the reason than the will of man,' and from
a daily perusal of the Divine Word, and a constant and devout attendance upon the public worship
of the Sabbath, although differing on some points from common opinions, he cherished enlarged
views of Christian communion, and recognized in most, if not all the religious denominations
of this country, members of one and the same family and kingdom of Jesus Christ. * * * * * * *

"Alas, the sad and appalling ruins of death! 'This is the end of earth.' Approach! lovers of
pleasure, seekers after wisdom, aspirants, by pre-eminence in station, and power, and influence
among men, to fame; see the end of human distinctions and earthly greatness! Surely man walketh
in a vain show; surely man in his best estate is altogether vanity. How pertinent to this scene
the words of Job: 'He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty. He removeth
away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged. All flesh is
grass--all the glory of man as the flower of the field. And shall this vast congregation soon
be brought to the grave--that house appointed for all the living? Hear, then, the great announcement
of the Son of God: 'I am the resurrection and the life, and whosoever believeth in me, though
he were dead yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.'
Is it strange that he who communed so much with the future as the great statesman to whose
virtues and memory we now pay this sad, final, solemn tribute of honor and affection, should,
in the last conversation I ever had with him, have expressed both regret and astonishment at
the indifference among too many of our public men to the truths and ordinances of our holy
religion? Is it to affect our hearts that he has been permitted to fall in the midst of us,
to arouse us from this insensibility, and cause us to press towards the gates of the eternal
city of God? Let us bless God for another great example to shine upon us, that another star
(we humbly trust) is planted amid the heavenly constellations to guide us to eternity!"

At the conclusion of the exercises in the capitol, a vast procession, escorted by military
companies, conveyed the remains to the Congressional burying ground, where they were to rest
until preparations for their removal to Quincy should be completed.

  "Sad was the pomp that yesterday beheld,
   As with the mourner's heart the anthem swelled;
   The rich-plumed canopy, the gorgeous pall,
   The sacred march, and sable vested wall!--
   These were not rites of inexpressive show,
   But hallowed as the types of real woe!
   Illustrious deceased! a NATION'S sighs,
   A NATION'S HEART, went with thine obsequies!"

The following letter of thanks from Mrs. Adams, addressed to the Speaker, was laid before the
House of Representatives:--

                                         "Washington, February 29, 1848.
"SIR: The resolutions in honor of my dear deceased husband, passed by the
illustrious assembly over which you preside, and of which he at the moment
of his death was a member, have been duly communicated to me.

"Penetrated with grief at this distressing event of my life, mourning the loss of one who has
been at once my example and my support through the trials of half a century, permit me nevertheless
to express through you my deepest gratitude for the signal manner in which the public regard
has been voluntarily manifested by your honorable body, and the consolation derived to me and
mine from the reflection that the unwearied efforts of an old public servant have not even
in this world proved without their reward in the generous appreciation of them by his country.

"With great respect, I remain, sir, your obedient servant,
                                             "LOUISA CATHARINE ADAMS."

On the following week, the Committee of one from each State and Territory in the Union, appointed
by the House of Representatives to take charge of the remains of the deceased ex-President,
and convey them to Quincy for final interment, commenced their journey. It was a new, yet inexpressibly
thrilling and imposing spectacle. The dead body of "the Old Man Eloquent," surrounded and guarded
by a son of each of the States and Territories of that Union which he had so largely assisted
in consolidating and sustaining, leaves the capitol of the nation, where for more than thirty
years he had acted the most conspicuous part among the fathers of the land, to rest in the
tomb of its ancestors, amid the venerable shades of Quincy. How solemn the progress of such
a procession. It was indeed, "the Funeral March of the Dead!" Wherever it passed, the people
rose up and paid the utmost marks of respect to the remains of one who had occupied so large
a space in the history of his country. In towns, in villages, in cities, as the mournful cortege
swept through, business was suspended, flags were displayed at half mast, bells were tolled,
minute guns were fired, civil and military processions received the sacred remains, and watched
over them by night and by day, and passed them on from State to State.

"What a progress was it which the dead patriot thus made! From the capitol of the nation, beneath
whose dome, and while at his post of duty, he was seized by death--within sight almost of that
Mount Vernon where repose the ashes of him, the Father of his Country, who first distinguished,
encouraged and employed the extraordinary capacity of the youthful Adams--through cities that
in his life time have grown up from villages--passing, at Baltimore, almost beneath the shadow
of the monument which there testifies of the valor of those who fell for country in the war
of 1812--and in Philadelphia halting and reposing within the hall where his great father; John
Adams, had fearlessly stood for Independence, and where Independence was proclaimed--the dead
passed on, everywhere followed by the reverential gaze and the mourning heart, till, reaching
the great metropolis of New York, where the same father had been sworn in and taken his seat,
as the first Vice President of the United States, with George Washington for President! Thence
away the march was resumed, till it reached old Faneuil Hall--the cradle of American liberty,
the fitting final restingplace, while yet unburied, of the body of one in whose heart, at no
moment of life, did the love of liberty, imbibed or strengthened in that hall, suffer the slightest
abatement." [Footnote: King's Eulogy.]

Faneuil Hall was clothed in the dark drapery of mourning, fitting to receive the body of one
of the greatest of the many noble sons of the venerable Bay State. Amid solemn dirges and appropriate
ceremonies, the chairman of the Congressional Committee surrendered to a Committee from the
Legislature of Massachusetts, the sacred remains they had accompanied from the capitol of the
United States.--

"Throughout the journey," said the chairman, "there have been displayed manifestations of the
highest admiration and respect for the memory of your late distinguished fellow-citizen. In
the large cities through which we expected to pass, we anticipated such demonstrations; but
in every village and hamlet, at the humblest cottage which we passed, and from the laborers
in the field, the same profound respect was testified by their uncovered heads."

The Committee of the Massachusetts Legislature having thus received the body from its Congressional
escort, in turn surrendered it to the keeping of the municipal authorities of Boston, for burial
at Quincy. This ceremony was performed by Mr. Buckingham, chairman of the Legislative Committee,
in these impressive words:--

"In the name and behalf of the Government and People of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
whose honored but humble servant I this day am, I consign to your faithful keeping, Mr. Mayor,
the remains of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS--all that was mortal of that venerable man, whose age and
whose virtues had rendered him an object of intense interest and admiration to his country
and to the world. We place these sacred remains in your possession, to be conveyed to their
appointed home--to sleep in the sepulchre and with the dust of his fathers."

Mr. Quincy, the Mayor, in accepting the guardianship conferred upon him in behalf of the city
of Boston, replied in the following terms:--

"There is something sublime in the scene that surrounds us. An honored son of Massachusetts--one
who was educated by a signer of the Declaration of Independence--one who heard the thunder
of the great struggle for liberty on yonder hill, has, after a life of unparalleled usefulness
and fidelity, fallen in the capitol of the country he served. His remains were escorted here
by delegates from every State in the Union. They have passed over spots ever memorable in history.
They have everywhere been received with funeral honors. They have reposed in the hall of independence.
They now lie in the cradle of liberty. As a citizen of Massachusetts, I cannot but acknowledge
our sense of the honor paid to her distinguished son. Mourned by a nation at its capitol, attended
by the representatives of millions to the grave, he has received a tribute to his memory unequalled
among men.

"These remains now rest in the cradle of liberty. It is their last resting-place on their journey
home. As a statesman's, 'this is to them the last of earth!' To-morrow they will be deposited
in the peaceful church-yard of the village of his birth, there to be mourned, not as statesmen
mourn for statesmen, but as friends mourn for friends.

"He will be 'gathered to his fathers!' And how great, in this case, is the significance of
the expression! It is possible that other men may be attended as he will be to the grave. But
when again shall the tomb of a President of the United States open its doors to receive a son
who has filled the same office?"

On the following day, the body, under the charge of the municipal officers of Boston, was conveyed
to Quincy. In the Unitarian church, in the presence of old neighbors and friends, the last
funeral exercises were held, and the last sad burial service was performed.

By the side of the graves of his fathers, overshadowed by aged trees, which had sheltered his
head in the days of boyhood, in a plain tomb, prepared under his own direction, and inscribed
simply with his name, sleep the ashes of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

  "Let no weak drops
   Be shed for him. The virgin in her bloom
   Cut off, the joyous youth, and darling child,
   These are the tombs that claim the tender tear
   And elegiac songs. But Adams calls
   For other notes of gratulation high;
   That now he wanders thro' those endless worlds
   He here so well descried; and, wondering, talks
   And hymns their Author with his glad compeers.
   Columbia's boast! whether with angels thou
   Sittest in dread discourse, or fellow blest
   Who joy to see the honor of their kind;
   Or whether, mounted on cherubic wing,
   Thy swift career is with the whirling orbs,
   Comparing things with things, in rapture lost,
   And grateful adoration for that light
   So plenteous ray'd into thy mind below
   From Light himself--oh! look with pity down
   On human kind, a frail, erroneous race!
   Exalt the spirit of a downward world!
   O'er thy dejected country chief preside,
   And be her Genius called! her studies raise,
   Correct her manners, and inspire her youth;
   For, though deprav'd and sunk, she brought thee forth,
   And glories in thy name. She points thee out
   To all her sons, and bids them eye thy star--
   Thy star, which, followed steadfastly, shall lead
   To wisdom, virtue, glory here, and joy
   Unspeakable in worlds to come."

EULOGY.[Footnote: Delivered before the Legislature of New York, by Wm. H. Seward.]

------

We are in the midst of extraordinary events. British-American Civilization and Spanish-American
Society have come into collision, each in its fullest maturity. The armies of the North have
penetrated the chapparels at Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma--passed the fortresses of Monterey,
and rolled back upon the heart of Mexico the unavailing tide of strong resistance from the
mountain-side of Buena Vista. Martial colonists are encamped on the coasts of California, while
San Juan d'Ulloa has fallen, and the invaders have swept the gorge of Cerro Gordo--carried
Perote and Puebla, and planted the banner of burning stars and ever-multiplying stripes on
the towers of the city of the Aztecs.

The thirtieth Congress assembles in this conjuncture, and the debates are solemn, earnest,
and bewildering. Interest, passion, conscience, freedom, and humanity, all have their advocates.
Shall new loans and levies be granted to prosecute still farther a war so glorious? or shall
it be abandoned? Shall we be content with the humiliation of the foe? or shall we complete
his subjugation? Would that severity be magnanimous, or even just? Nay, is the war itself just?
Who provoked, and by what unpardonable offence, this disastrous strife between two eminent
Republics, so scandalous to Democratic Institutions? Where shall we trace anew the ever-advancing
line of our empire? Shall it be drawn on the shore of the Rio Grande, or on the summit of the
Sierra Madre? or shall Mexican Independence be extinguished, and our eagle close his adventurous
pinions only when he looks off upon the waves that separate us from the Indies? Does Freedom
own and accept our profuse oblations of blood, or does she reject the sacrifice? Will these
conquests extend her domain, or will they be usurped by ever-grasping slavery? What, effect
will this new-born ambition have upon ourselves? Will it leave us the virtue to continue the
career of social progress? How shall we govern the conquered people? Shall we incorporate their
mingled races with ourselves, or rule them with the despotism of proconsular power? Can we
preserve these remote and hostile possessions in any way, without forfeiting our own blood-bought
heritage of freedom?

Steam and lightning, which have become docile messengers, make the American people listeners
to this high debate, and anxiety, and interest, intense and universal, absorb them all. Suddenly
the council is dissolved. Silence is in the capitol, and sorrow has thrown its pall over the
land. What new event is this? Has some Cromwell closed the legislative chambers? or has some
Caesar, returning from his distant conquests, passed the Rubicon, seized the purple, and fallen
in the Senate beneath the swords of self-appointed executioners of his country's vengeance?
No! nothing of all this. What means, then, this abrupt and fearful silence? What unlooked for
calamity has quelled the debates of the Senate and calmed the excitement of the people? An
old man, whose tongue once indeed was eloquent, but now through age had well nigh lost its
cunning, has fallen into the swoon of death. He was not an actor in the drama of conquest--nor
had his feeble voice yet mingled in the lofty argument--

  "A grey-haired sire, whose eye intent
   Was on the visioned future bent."

And now he has dreamed out at last the troubled dream of life. Sighs of unavailing grief ascend
to Heaven. Panegyric, fluent in long-stifled praise, performs its office. The army and the
navy pay conventional honors, with the pomp of national woe, and then the hearse moves onward.
It rests appropriately, on its way, in the hall where independence was proclaimed, and again
under the dome where freedom was born. At length the tomb of JOHN ADAMS opens to receive a
SON, who also, born a subject of a king had stood as a representative of his emancipated country,
before principalities and powers, and had won by merit, and worn without reproach, the honors
of the Republic.

From that scene, so impressive in itself, and impressive because it never before happened,
and can never happen again, we have come up to this place surrounded with the decent drapery
of public mourning, on a day set apart by authority, to recite the history of the citizen,
who, in the ripeness of age, and fulness of honors, has thus descended to his rest. It is fit
to do so, because it is by such exercises that nations regenerate their early virtues and renew
their constitutions. All nations must perpetually renovate their virtues and their constitutions,
or perish. Never was there more need to renovate ours than now, when we seem to be passing
from the safe old policy of peace and moderation into a career of conquest and martial renown.
Never was the duty of preserving our free institutions in all their purity, more obvious than
it is now, when they have become beacons to mankind in what seems to be a general dissolution
of their ancient social systems.

The history of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS is one that opens no new truth in the philosophy of virtue;
for there is no undiscovered truth in that philosophy. But it is a history that sheds marvellous
confirmation on maxims which all mankind know, and yet are prone to undervalue and forget.
The exalted character before us was formed by the combination of virtue, courage, assiduity,
and modesty, under favorable conditions, with native talent and genius, and illustrates the
truth, that in morals as in nature, simplicity is the chief element of the sublime.

John Quincy Adams was fortunate in his lineage; in the period, and in the place of his nativity;
in all the circumstances of education; in the age and country in which he lived; in the incidents,
as well as the occasions of his public service; and in the period and manner of his death.
He was a descendant from one of the Puritan planters of Massachusetts, and a son of the most
intrepid actor in the Revolution of Independence. Quincy, the place of his birth, is a plain,
bounded on the west by towering granite hills, and swept without defence by every wind from
the ocean. Its soil in ancient times was as sterile as its climate is always rigorous.

Born on the eleventh day of July, 1767, in the hour of the agitation of rebellion, and reared
within sight and sound of gathering war, the earliest political ideas he received were such
as John Adams then uttered--"We must fight." A mother fervently pious, and eminent in intellectual
gifts, directed with more than maternal assiduity and solicitude the education of him who was
to render her own name immortal. Never quite divorced from home, yet twice, and for long periods
in his youth, a visitor in Europe, he enjoyed always the parental discipline of one of the
founders of the American State, and often the daily conversation of Franklin and Jefferson;
and combined travel in France, Spain, England, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, and Russia, and even
diplomatic experience, with the instructions of the schools of Paris, of the University at
Leyden, and of Harvard University at Cambridge; and all these influences fell upon him at a
period when his country, then opening the way to human liberty through trials of fire, fixed
the attention of mankind.

The establishment of the Republic of the United States of America, is the most important secular
event in the history of the human race. It did not disentangle the confused theory of the origin
of Government, but cut through the bonds of power existing by prescription, at a blow; and
thus directly and immediately affected the opinions and the actions of men in every part of
the civilized world. It animated them everywhere to seek freedom from despotic power and aristocratic
restraint. Whenever and wherever they have since moved, either by peaceful agitation or by
physical force, to meliorate systems of government, whether in France at the close of the last
century, or afterward on the second subversion of the elder branch of the Bourbons, or in the
recent overthrow of the constitutional king, or in Ireland, or in England, or in Italy, or
in Greece, or in South America, whether they succeeded or failed, there, in the tumult or in
the strife, was the spirit of the American Revolution. "It gave an example of a great people,
not merely emancipating themselves, but governing themselves, without either a monarch to control,
or an aristocracy to restrain them; and it demonstrated, for the first time in the history
of the world, contrary to the predictions and theories of speculative philosophy, that a great
nation, when duly prepared, is capable of self-government by purely republican institutions."

But the establishment of the American Republic was too great an achievement to be made all
at once. It was a drama of five grand acts, each of which filled a considerable period, and
called upon the stage actors of peculiar powers and distinguished virtues. Those acts were,
colonization, preparation, revolution, organization, consolidation.

Two of these acts were closed before John Quincy Adams was born. The third, the revolution,
the shortest of them all, dazzles the contemplation by the rapidity and the martial character
of its incidents. The fourth, the organization of the Government, by the splendors of genius
elicited, and the felicity of the new form of government presented, satisfies the superficial
inquirer that, when the Constitution had been adopted, nothing remained to perfect the great
achievement. But other nations have had successful revolutions, and have set up free constitutions,
and have yet sunk again under reinvigorated despotism. The CONSOLIDATION of the American Republic--the
crowning act--occupied forty years, reaching from 1789 to 1829. During that period, John Quincy
Adams participated continually in public affairs, and ultimately became the principal actor.

The new Government was purely an experiment. In opposition to the fixed habits of mankind,
it established suffrage practically universal, and representation so perfect that not one Legislative
House only, but both Houses; not legislative officers only, but all officers, executive, ministerial,
and even judicial, were directly or indirectly elected by the people. The longest term of the
senatorial trust was but six years, and the shortest only two, and even the tenure of the executive
power was only four years. This Government, betraying so much popular jealousy, was invested
with only special and limited sovereignty. The conduct of merely municipal affairs was distributed
within the States, among Governments even more popular than the federal structure, and without
whose ever-renewed support that structure must fall.

The Government thus constituted, so new, so complex and artificial, was to be consolidated,
in the midst of difficulties at home, and of dangers abroad. The constitution had been adopted
only upon convictions of absolute necessity, and with evanescent dispositions of compromise.
By nearly half of the people it was thought too feeble to sustain itself, and secure the rights
for which governments are instituted among men. By as many it was thought liable to be converted
into an over-shadowing despotism, more formidable and more odious than the monarchy which had
been subverted. These conflicting opinions revealed themselves in like discordance upon every
important question of administration, and were made the basis of parties, which soon became
jealous and irreconcilable, and ultimately inveterate, and even in some degree disloyal.

These domestic feuds were aggravated by pernicious influences from Europe. In the progress
of western civilization, the nations of the earth had become social. The new Republic could
not, like the Celestial Empire, or that of Japan, confine itself within its own boundaries,
and exist without national intercourse. It had entered the family of nations. But the position
it was to assume, and the advantages it was to be allowed to enjoy, were yet to be ascertained
and fixed. Its independence, confessed to be only a doubtful experiment at home, was naturally
thought ephemeral in Europe. Its example was ominous, and the European Powers willingly believed
that, if discountenanced and baffled, America would soon relapse into colonial subjugation.
Such prejudices were founded in the fixed habits of society. Not only the thirteen colonies,
but the whole American hemisphere, had been governed by European States from the period of
its discovery. The very soil belonged to the trans-atlantic monarchs by discovery, or by ecclesiastical
gift. Dominion over it attached by divine right to their persons, and drew after it obligations
of inalienable allegiance upon those who became the inhabitants of the new world. The new world
was indeed divided between different powers, but the system of government was the same. It
was administered for the benefit of the parental State alone. Each power prohibited all foreign
trade with its Colonies, and all intercourse between them and other plantations, supplied its
Colonies with what they needed from abroad, interdicted their manufactures, and monopolized
their trade. The prevalence of this system over the whole continent of America and the adjacent
islands prevented all enterprize in the colonies, discouraged all improvement, and retarded
their progress to independence.

The American Revolution sundered these bonds only so far as they confined thirteen of the British
Colonies, and left the remaining British dominions, and the continent, from Georgia around
Cape Horn to the Northern Ocean, under the same thraldom as before. Even the United States
had attained only physical independence. The moral influences of the colonial system oppressed
them still. Their trade, their laws, their science, their literature, their social connections,
their ecclesiastical relations, their manners and their habits, were still colonial; and their
thoughts continually clung around the ancient and majestic States of the Eastern Continent.

The American Revolution, so happily concluded here, broke out in France simultaneously with
the beginning of Washington's administration. The French nation passed in fifteen years from
absolute despotism under Louis XVI., through all the phases of democracy to a military despotism
under Napoleon Bonaparte; and retained through all these changes, only two characteristics--unceasing
ferocity of faction, and increasing violence of aggression against foreign States. The scandal
of the French Revolution fell back upon the United States of America, who were regarded as
the first disturbers of the ancient social system. The principal European monarchs combined,
under the guidance of England, to arrest the presumptuous career of France and extirpate democracy
by the sword. Nevertheless, the republican cause, however odious in Europe, was our national
cause. The sympathies of a large portion of the American people could not be withdrawn from
the French nation, which always claimed, even when marshalled into legions under the Corsican
conqueror, to be fighting the battles of freedom; while, on the other side, the citizens who
regarded innovation as worse than tyranny, considered England and her allies as engaged in
sustaining the cause of order, of government, and of society itself.

The line already drawn between the American people in regard to their organic law, naturally
became the dividing line of the popular sympathies in the great European conflict. Thus deeply
furrowed, that line became "a great gulf fixed." The Federal party unconsciously became an
English party, although it indignantly disowned the epithet; and the Republican party became
a French party, although with equal sincerity it denied the gross impeachment. Each belligerent
was thus encouraged to hope some aid from the United States, through the ever-expected triumph
of its friends; while both conceived contemptuous opinions of a people who, from too eager
interest in a foreign fray, suffered their own national rights to be trampled upon with impunity
by the contending States.

Washington set the new machine of government in motion. He formed his cabinet of recognized
leaders of the adverse parties. Hamilton and Knox of the Federal party were balanced by Jefferson
and Randolph of the adverse party. "Washington took part with neither, but held the balance
between them with the scrupulous justice which marked his lofty nature." On the 25th of April,
1793, he announced the neutrality of the United States between the belligerents, and his decision,
without winning the respect of either, exasperated both. Each invaded our national rights more
flagrantly than before, and excused the injustice by the plea of necessary retaliation against
its adversary, and each found willing apologists in a sympathizing faction in our own country.

Commercial and political relations were to be established between the United States and the
European Powers in this season of conflict. Ministers were needed who could maintain and vindicate
abroad the same impartiality practised by Washington at home. There was one citizen eminently
qualified for such a trust in such a conjuncture. Need I say that citizen was the younger Adams,
and that Washington had the sagacity to discover him?

John Quincy Adams successively completed missions at the Hague and at Berlin, in the period
intervening between 1794 and 1801, with such advantage and success, that in 1802 he was honored
by his native commonwealth with a seat as her representative in the Senate of the United States.
The insults offered to our country by the belligerents increased in aggravation as the contest
between them became more violent and convulsive. France, in 1804, laid aside even the name
and forms of a Republic, and the first consul, dropping the emblems of popular power, placed
the long-coveted diadem upon his brow, where its jewels sparkled among the laurels he had won
in the conquest of Italy. Washington's administration had passed away, leaving the American
people in sullen discontent. John Adams had succeeded, and had atoned by the loss of power
for the offence he had given by causing a just but unavailing war to be declared against France.
Jefferson was at the head of the Government; he thought the belligerents might be reduced to
forbearance by depriving them of our commercial contributions of supplies, and recommended,
first an embargo, and then non-intercourse. Britain was an insular and France a continental
power. The effects of these measures would therefore be more severe on the former than on the
latter, and, unhappily, they were more severe on our own country than on either of the offenders.

Massachusetts was the chief commercial State in the Union. She saw the ruin of her commerce
involved in the policy of Jefferson, and regarded it as an unworthy concession to the usurper
of the French throne. In this emergency John Quincy Adams turned his back on Massachusetts,
and threw into the uprising scale of the administration, the weight of his talents and of his
already eminent fame. Massachusetts instructed the recusant to recant. He refused to obey,
and resigned his place. His change of political relations astounded the country, and, with
the customary charity of partisan zeal, was attributed to venality. It is now seen by us in
the light reflected upon it by the habitual independence, unquestioned purity, and lofty patriotism
of his whole life; and thus seen, constitutes only the first marked one of many instances wherein
he broke the green withes which party fastened upon him, and maintained the cause of his country,
referring the care of his fame to God and to an impartial posterity. Like Decimus Brutus, whom
Julius Caesar saluted among his executioners with the exclamation "Et tu, Brute!" John Quincy
Adams was not unfaithful, but he could not be obliged where he was not left free.

Jefferson retired in 1809, leaving to his successor, the scholastic and peace-loving Madison,
the perilous legacy of perplexed foreign relations, and embittered domestic feuds. Great Britain
now filled the measure of exasperations, by insolently searching our vessels on the high seas,
and impressing into her marine all whom she chose to suspect of having been born in her allegiance,
even though they had renounced it and had assumed the relations of American citizens. War was
therefore imminent and inevitable. Russia was then coming forward to a position of commanding
influence in Europe, and her youthful Emperor Alexander had won, by his chivalrous bearing,
the respect of mankind. John Quincy Adams was wisely sent by the United States, to establish
relations of amity with the great power of the North; and while he was thus engaged, the flames
of European war, which had been so long averted, involved his own country. War was declared
against Great Britain.

It was just. It was necessary. Yet it was a war that dared Great Britain to re-assert her ancient
sovereignty. It was a war with a power whose wealth and credit were practically inexhaustible,
a power whose navy rode unchecked over all the seas, and whose impregnable garrisons encircled
the globe.

Against such a power the war was waged by a nation that had not yet accumulated wealth, nor
established credit, nor even opened avenues suitable for transporting munitions of war through
its extended territories--that had only the germ of a navy, an inconsiderable army, and not
one substantial fortress. Yet such a war, under such circumstances, was denounced as unnecessary
and unjust, though for no better reason than because greater contumelies had been endured at
the hands of France. Thus a domestic feud, based on the very question of the war itself, enervated
the national strength, and encouraged the mighty adversary.

The desperate valor displayed at Chippewa and Lundy's Lane, at Fort Erie and Plattsburgh, and
the brilliant victories won in contests between single ships of war on the ocean and armed
fleets on the lakes, vindicated the military prowess of the United States, but brought us no
decisive advantage. A suspension of the conflict in Europe followed Napoleon's disastrous invasion
of Russia, and left America alone opposed to her great adversary. Peace was necessary, because
the national credit was exhausted--because the fortunes of the war were inclining against us--and
because the opposition to it was ripening into disorganizing councils. Adams had prepared the
way by securing the mediation of Alexander. Then, in that critical period, associated with
Russell, Bayard, the learned and versatile Gallatin, and the eloquent and chivalric Clay, he
negotiated with firmness, with assiduity, with patience, and with consummate ability, a definitive
treaty of peace--a treaty of peace which, although it omitted the causes of the war already
obsolete, saved and established and confirmed in its whole integrity the independence of the
Republic--a treaty of peace that yet endures, and, we willingly hope, may endure forever.

After fulfilling a subsequent mission at the Court of St. James, the pacificator entered the
domestic service of the country as Secretary of State in the administration of James Monroe;
and at the expiration of that administration became President of the United States. He attained
the honors of the Republic at the age of fifty-seven, in the forty-ninth year of independence.
He was sixth in the succession, and with him closed the line of Chief Magistrates who had rendered
to their country some tribute of their talents in civil or military service in the war of independence.

John Quincy Adams, on entering civil life, had found the Republic unstable. He retired in 1829,
leaving it firmly established. It was thus his happy fortune to preside at the completion of
that work of consolidation, the beginning of which was the end of the labors of Washington.

John Quincy Adams engaged in this great work while yet in private life, in 1793. He showed
to his fellow-citizens, in a series of essays, the inability of the French people to maintain
free institutions at that time, and the consequent necessity of American neutrality in the
European war. These publications aided Washington so much the more because they anticipated
his own decision. Adams sustained the same great cause when he strengthened the administration
of Jefferson against the preponderating influence of Great Britain. His diplomatic services
in Holland and Russia secured, at a critical period, a favorable consideration in the Courts
of those countries, which conduced to the same end; and his brilliant success in restoring
peace to the country so sorely pressed, relieved her from her enemies, reassured her, and gave
to sceptical Europe conclusive proof that her republican institutions were destined to endure.

The administration of John Quincy Adams blends so intimately with that of Monroe, in which
he was chief Minister, that no dividing line can be drawn between them. Adams may be said,
without derogation from the fame of Monroe, to have swayed the Government during his presidency;
and with equal truth, Monroe may be admitted to have continued his administration through that
of his successor.

The consolidation of the Republic required that faction should be extinguished. Monroe began
this difficult task cautiously, and pursued it with good effect. John Quincy Adams completed
the achievement. The dignity and moderation which marked his acceptance of the highest trust
which a free people could confer, beautifully foreshadowed the magnanimity with which it was
to be discharged.

It argued a noble consciousness of virtue to express, on such an occasion, so ingenuously,
the emotions of a generous ambition.

He displayed the same great quality no less when he called to the post of chief Minister, in
spite of clamors of corruption, Henry Clay, that one of his late rivals who alone among his
countrymen had the talents and generosity which the responsibilities of the period exacted.

During the administration of John Quincy Adams, he was really the Chief Magistrate. He submitted
neither his reason nor his conscience to the control of any partisan cabal. No man was appointed
to office in obedience to political dictation, and no faithful public servant was proscribed.
The result rewarded his magnanimity. Faction ceased to exist. When South Carolina, a few years
afterward, assumed the very ground that the ancient republican party had indicated as lawful
and constitutional, and claimed the right and power to set aside, within her own limits, acts
of Congress which she pronounced void, because they transcended the Federal authority, she
called on the republican party throughout the Union in vain. The dangerous heresy had been
renounced forever. Since that time there has been no serious project of a combination to resist
the laws of the Union, much less of a conspiracy to subvert the Union itself.

What though the elements of political strife remain? They are necessary for the life of free
States. What though there still are parties, and the din and turmoil of their contests are
ceaselessly heard? They are founded now on questions of mere administration, or on the more
ephemeral questions of personal merit. Such parties are dangerous only in the decline, not
in the vigor of Republics. Rome was no longer fit for freedom, and needed a Dictator and a
Sovereign, when Pompey and Caesar divided the citizens. What though the magnanimity of Adams
was not appreciated, and his contemporaries preferred his military competitor in the subsequent
election? The sword gathers none but ripe fruits, and the masses of any people will sometimes
prefer them to the long maturing harvest, which the statesmen of the living generations sow,
to be reaped by their successors. For all this Adams cared not. He had extinguished the factions
which for forty years had endangered the State. He had left on the records of history instructions
and an example teaching how faction could be overthrown, and his country might resort to them
when danger should recur.

The federal authority had so long been factiously opposed, that the popular respect for its
laws needed to be renewed. The State of Georgia presented the fit occasion. She insisted on
expelling, forcibly, remnants of Indian tribes, within her limits, in virtue of a treaty which
was impeached for fraud, and came for revision before the Supreme Court and the Senate. The
President met the emergency with boldness and decision. The demonstration thus given that good
faith should be practised, and the law have its way, no matter how unequal the litigating parties,
operated favorably toward restoring the moral influence of the Government. That influence,
although sometimes checked, has recently increased in strength, until the federal authority
is universally regarded as final, and liberty again walks confidently hand in hand with law.

John Quincy Adams "loved peace and ensued it." He loved peace as a Christian, because war was
at enmity with the spirit and precepts of a religion which he held to be divine. As a statesman
and magistrate, he loved peace, because war was not merely injurious to national prosperity,
but because, whether successful or adverse, it was subversive of liberty. Democracies are prone
to war, and war consumes them. He favored, therefore, all the philanthropic efforts of the
age to cultivate the spirit of peace, and looked forward with benevolent hope to the ultimate
institution of a General Congress of nations for the adjustment of their controversies. But
he was no visionary and no enthusiast. He knew that as yet war was often inevitable--that pusillanimity
provoked it, and that national honor was national property of the highest value; because it
was the best national defence. He admitted only defensive war--but he did not narrowly define
it. He held that to be a defensive war, which was waged to sustain what could not be surrendered
or relinquished without compromising the independence, the just influence, or even the proper
dignity of the State. Thus he had supported the war with Great Britain--thus in later years
he sustained President Jackson in his bold demonstration against France, when that power wantonly
refused to perform the stipulations it had made in a treaty of indemnity; and thus he yielded
his support to what was thought a warlike measure of the present administration in the diplomatic
controversy with Great Britain concerning the Territory of Oregon. The living and the dead
have mutual rights, and therefore it must be added that he considered the present war with
Mexico as unnecessary, unjust, and criminal. His opinion on this exciting question is among
those on which he referred himself to that future age which he so often constituted the umpire
between himself and his contemporaries.

With such principles on the subject of war, he regarded the establishment of a system of national
defence as a necessary policy for consolidating the Republic. He prosecuted, therefore, on
a large scale, the work of fortification, and defended against popular opposition the institution
for the cultivation of military science, which has so recently vindicated that early favor
through the learning, valor, patriotism and humanity exhibited by its pupils on the fields
of Mexico.

The enlargement of our navy, under the influence of these opinions, is among the measures of
national consolidation we owe to him; and the institution for naval education we enjoy, is
a recent result of his early suggestions.

But John Quincy Adams relied for national security and peace mainly on an enlightened and broad
system of civil policy. He looked through the future combinations of States, and studied the
accidents to which they were exposed, that he might seasonably remove causes of future conflict.
His genius, when exercised in this lofty duty, played in its native element. He had cordially
approved the measures by which Washington had secured the free navigation of the Mississippi.
He approved the acquisition of Louisiana, although with Jefferson he insisted on a preliminary
amendment of the constitution for that purpose. He had no narrow bigotry, concerning the soil
to which the institutions of our fathers should be confined, and no local prejudice against
their extension in any direction required by the public security, if the extension should be
made with justice, honor, and humanity.

The acquisition of Louisiana had only given us additional territory, fruitful in new commerce,
to be exposed to dangers which remain to be overcome. Spain still possessed, beside the Island
of Cuba, the Peninsula of the Floridas, and thus held the keys of the Mississippi. The real
independence, the commercial and the moral independence, of the United States, remained to
be effected at the close of the European wars, and of our own war with England. Our political
independence had been confirmed, and that was all. John Quincy Adams addressed himself, as
Secretary of State, to the subversion of what remained of the colonial system. He commenced
by an auspicious purchase of the Floridas, which gave us important maritime advantages on the
Gulf of Mexico, while it continued our Atlantic sea-board unbroken from the Bay of Fundy to
the Sabine.

The ever-advancing American Revolution was at the same time opening the way to complete disinthralment.
The Spanish-American Provinces revolted, and seven new Republics, with constitutions not widely
differing from our own--Buenos Ayres, Guatamala, Colombia, Mexico, Chili, Central America,
and Peru--suddenly claimed audience and admission among the nations of the earth. The people
of those countries were but doubtfully prepared to maintain their contest for independence,
or to support republican institutions. But on the other side Spain was enervated and declining.
She applied to the Holy League of Europe for their aid, and the new Republics applied to the
United States for that recognition which could not fail to impart strength. The question was
momentous. The ancient colonial system was at stake. All Europe was interested in maintaining
it. The Holy League held Europe fast bound to the rock of despotism, and were at liberty to
engage the United States in a war for the subversion of their independence, if they should
dare to extend their aid or protection to the rebellious Colonies in South America.

Such a war would be a war of the two continents--an universal war. Who could foretell its termination,
or its dread results? But the emancipation of Spanish America was necessary for our own larger
freedom, and our own complete security. That freedom and that security required that the nations
of Europe should relax their grasp on the American Continent. The question was long and anxiously
debated. The American people hesitated to hazard, for speculative advantages, the measures
of independence already obtained. Monroe and Adams waited calmly and firmly. The impassioned
voice of Henry Clay rose from the Chamber of Representatives. It rang through the continent
like the notes of the clarion, inspiring South America with new resolution, and North America
with the confidence the critical occasion demanded.  That noble appeal was answered. South
America stood firm, and North America was ready. Then it was that John Quincy Adams, with those
generous impulses which the impatient blood of his revolutionary sire always prompted, and
with that enlightened sagacity which never misapprehended the interests of his country, nor
mistook the time nor the means to secure them, obtained from the administration and from Congress
the acknowledgment of the independence of the young American nations. To give decisive effect
to this great measure, Monroe, in 1823, solemnly declared to the world, that thenceforth any
attempt by any foreign power to establish the colonial system in any part of this continent,
already emancipated, would be resisted as an aggression against the independence of the United
States. On the accession of Adams to the administration of the Government, the vast American
continental possessions of Brazil separated themselves from the crown of Portugal and became
an independent State. Adams improved these propitious and sublime events by negotiating treaties
of reciprocal trade with the youthful nations; and, concurring with Monroe, accepted, in behalf
of the United States, their invitation to a General Congress of American States to be held
at Panama, to cement relations of amity among themselves, and to consider, if it should become
necessary, the proper means to repel the apprehended interference of the Holy League of Europe.

The last measure transcended the confidence of a large and respectable portion of the American
people. But its moral effect was needed to secure the stability of the South American Republics.
Adams persevered, and, in defending his course, gave notice to the powers of Europe, by this
bold declaration, that the determination of the United States was inflexible:--

"If it be asked, whether this meeting, and the principles which may be adjusted and settled
by it, as rules of intercourse between American nations, may not give umbrage to European powers,
or offence to Spain, it is deemed a sufficient answer, that our attendance at Panama can give
no just cause of umbrage or offence to either, and that the United States will stipulate nothing
there, which can give such cause. Here the right of inquiry into our purposes and measures
must stop. The Holy League of Europe, itself, was formed without inquiring of the United States,
whether it would or would not give umbrage to them. The fear of giving umbrage to the Holy
League of Europe was urged as a motive for denying to the American nations the acknowledgment
of their independence. The Congress and the administration of that day consulted their rights
and their duties, not their fears. The United States must still, as heretofore, take counsel
from their duties, rather than their fears."

Contrast, fellow-citizens, this declaration of John Quincy Adams, President of the United States
in 1825, with the proclamation of neutrality, between the belligerents of Europe, made by Washington
in 1793, with the querrulous complaints of your Ministers against the French Directory and
the British Ministry at the close of the last century, and with the acts of embargo and non-intercourse
at the beginning of the present century, destroying our own commerce to conquer forbearance
from the intolerant European powers. Learn from this contrast, the epoch of the consolidation
of the Republic. Thus instructed, do honor to the statesman and magistrate by whom, not forgetting
the meed due to his illustrious compeers, the colonial system was overthrown throughout Spanish
America, and the independence of the United States was completely and finally consummated.

The intrepid and unwearied statesman now directed his attention to the remnants of the colonial
system still preserved in the Canadas and West Indies. Great Britain, by parliamentary measures,
had undermined our manufactures, and, receiving only our raw materials, repaid us with fabrics
manufactured from them, while she excluded us altogether from the carrying trade with her colonial
possessions. John Quincy Adams sought to counteract this injurious legislation, by a revenue
system, which should restore the manufacturing industry of the country, while he offered reciprocal
trade as a compromise. His administration ended during a beneficial trial of this vigorous
policy. But it taxed too severely the patriotism of some of the States, and was relinquished
by his successors.

Indolence begets degeneracy, and immobility is the first stage of dissolution. John Quincy
Adams sought not merely to consolidate the Republic, but to perpetuate it. For this purpose
he bent vast efforts, with success, to such a policy of internal improvement as would increase
the facilities of communication and intercourse between the States, and bring into being that
great internal trade which must ever constitute the strongest bond of federal union. Wherever
a lighthouse has been erected, on our sea-coast, on our lakes, or on our rivers--wherever a
mole or pier has been constructed or begun--wherever a channel obstructed by shoals or sawyers
has been opened, or begun to be opened--wherever a canal or railroad, adapted to national uses,
has been made or projected--there the engineers of the United States, during the administration
of John Quincy Adams, made explorations, and opened the way for a diligent prosecution of his
designs by his successors. This policy, apparently so stupendous, was connected with a system
of fiscal economy so rigorous, that the treasury augmented its stores, while the work of improvement
went on; the public debt, contracted in past wars, dissolved away, and the nation flourished
in unexampled prosperity. John Quincy Adams administered the Federal Government, while De Witt
Clinton was presiding in the State of New York. It is refreshing to recall the noble emulation
of these illustrious benefactors--an emulation that shows how inseparable sound philosophy
is from true patriotism.

The disastrous career of many of the States, and the absolute inaction of others, since the
responsibilities of internal improvement have been cast off by the federal authorities, and
developed upon the States, without other sources of revenue than direct taxation, and with
no other motives to stimulate them than their own local interests, are a fitting commentary
on the error of that departure from the policy of John Quincy Adams. If other comment were
necessary, it would be found in the fact that States have revised and amended their constitutions,
so as to abridge the power of their Legislatures to prosecute the beneficent enterprises which
the Federal Government has devolved upon them. The Smithsonian Institute, at the seat of Government,
founded by the liberality of a cosmopolite, is that same university so earnestly recommended
by Adams for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. The exploration of the globe,
for purposes of geographical and political knowledge, which has so recently been made under
the authority of the Union, and with such noble results, was an enterprize conceived and suggested
by the same statesman. The National Observatory at the capital, which is piercing the regions
nearest to the throne of the eternal Author of the universe, is an emanation of the same comprehensive
wisdom.

Such was the administration of John Quincy Adams. Surely it exhibits enough done for duty and
for fame--if the ancient philosopher said truly, that the duty of a statesman was to make the
citizens happy, to make them firm in power, rich in wealth, splendid in glory, and eminent
in virtue, and that such achievements were the greatest and best of all works among men.

But the measure of duty was not yet fulfilled. The Republic thought it no longer had need of
the services of Adams, and he bowed to its command. Two years elapsed, and lo! the priest was
seen again beside the deserted altar, and a brighter, purer, and more lasting flame arose out
of the extinguished embers.

  "He looked in years. But in his years were seen
   A youthful vigor, an autumnal green."

The Republic had been extended and consolidated; but human slavery, which had been incorporated
in it, was extended and consolidated also, and was spreading, so as to impair the strength
of the great fabric on which the hopes of the nations were suspended. Slavery therefore must
be restrained, and, without violence or injustice, must be abolished. The difficult task of
removing it had been postponed by the statesmen of the Revolution, and had been delayed and
forgotten by their successors. There were now resolute hearts and willing hands to undertake
it, but who was strong enough, and bold enough to lead? Who had patience to bear with enthusiasm
that overleaped its mark, and with intolerance that defeated its own generous purposes? Slaveholders
had power, nay, the national power; and strange to say, they had it with the nation's consent
and sympathy. Who was bold enough to provoke them, and bring the execration of the nation down
upon his own head? Who would do this, when even abolitionists themselves, rendered implacable
by the manifestation of those sentiments of justice and moderation, without which the most
humane cause, depending on a change of public opinion, cannot be conducted safely to a prosperous
end, were ready to betray their own champion into the hands of the avenger? That leader was
found in the person of John Quincy Adams. He took his seat in the House of Representatives
in 1831, without assumption or ostentation. Abolitionists placed in his hand petitions for
the suppression of slavery in the District of Columbia, the seat of the federal authorities.
He offered them to the House of Representatives, and they were rejected with contumely and
scorn. Suddenly the alarm went forth, that the aged and venerable servant was retaliating upon
his country by instigating a servile war, that such a war must be avoided, eyen at the cost
of sacrificing the freedom of petition and the freedom of debate, and that if the free States
would not consent to make that sacrifice, then the Union should be dissolved. This alarm had
its desired effect. The House of Representatives, in 1837, adopted a rule of discipline, equivalent
to an act, ordaining that no petition relating to slavery, nearly or remotely, should be read,
debated or considered. The Senate adopted a like edict. The State authorities approved. Slavery
was not less strongly entrenched behind the bulwark of precedents in the courts of law than
in the fixed habits of thought and action among the people. The people even in the free States
denounced the discussion of slavery, and suppressed it by unlawful force. John Quincy Adams
stood unmoved amid the storm. He knew that the only danger incident to political reform, was
the danger of delaying it too long. The French Revolution had made this an axiom of political
science. If, indeed, the discussion of slavery was so hazardous as was pretended, it had been
deferred too long already. The advocates of slavery had committed a fatal error. They had abolished
freedom of speech and freedom of petition to save an obnoxious institution. As soon as the
panic should subside, the people would demand the restoration of those precious rights, and
would scrutinize with fearless fidelity the cause for which they had been suppressed. He offered
petition after petition, each bolder and more importunate than the last. He debated questions,
kindred to those which were forbidden, with the firmness and fervor of his noble nature. For age

  Had not quenched the open truth
  And fiery vehemence of youth.

Soon he gained upon his adversaries. District after district sent champions to his side. States
reconsidered, and resolved in his behalf. He saw the tide was turning, and then struck one
bold blow, not now for freedom of petition and debate, but a stroke of bold and retaliating
warfare.

In 1845, the obnoxious rule of the House of Representatives was rescinded. The freedom of debate
and petition was restored, and the unrestrained and irrepressible discussion of slavery by
the press and political parties began. For the rest, the work of emancipation abides the action,
whether it be slow or fast, of the moral sense of the American people. It depends not on the
zeal and firmness only of the reformers, but on their wisdom and moderation also. Stoicism,
that had no charity for error, never converted any human society to virtue; Christianity, that
remembers the true nature of man, has encompassed a large portion of the globe. How long emancipation
may be delayed, is among the things concealed from our knowledge, but not so the certain result.
The perils of the enterprize are already passed--its difficulties have already been removed--when
it shall have been accomplished it will be justly regarded as the last noble effort which rendered
the Republic imperishable.

Then the merit of the great achievement will be awarded to John Quincy Adams; and by none more
gratefully than by the communities on whom the institution of slavery has brought the calamity
of premature and consumptive decline, in the midst of free, vigorous, and expanding States.

If this great transaction could be surpassed in dramatic sublimity, it was surpassed when the
same impassioned advocate of humanity appeared, at the age of seventy-four, with all the glorious
associations that now clustered upon him, at the bar of the Supreme Court of the United States,
and pleaded, without solicitation or reward, the cause of Cinque and thirty other Africans,
who had been stolen by a Spanish slaver from their native coast, had slain the master and crew
of the pirate vessel, floated into the waters of the United States, and there been claimed
by the President, in behalf of the authorities of Spain. He pleaded this great cause with such
happy effect, that the captives were set at liberty. Conveyed by the charity of the humane
to their native shores, they bore the pleasing intelligence to Africa, that justice was at
last claiming its way among civilized and Christian men!

The recital of heroic actions loses its chief value, if we cannot discover the principles in
which they were born. The text of John Quincy Adams, from which he deduced the duties of citizens,
and of the republic, was the address of the Continental Congress to the people of the United
States, on the occasion of the successful close of the American Revolution. If, on the other
side, our Governments should be unfortunately blotted with the reverse of these cardinal virtues,
the great cause which we have engaged to vindicate will be dishonored and betrayed; the last
and fairest experiment in favor of the rights of human nature will be turned against them,
and their patrons and friends exposed to the insults, and silenced by the votaries of tyranny
and usurpation.

Senators and Representatives of the People of the State of New York: I had turned my steps
away from your honored halls, long since, as I thought forever. I come back to them by your
command, to fulfil a higher duty and more honorable service than ever before devolved upon
me. I repay your generous confidence, by offering to you this exposition of the duties of the
magistrate and of the citizen. It is the same which John Quincy Adams gave to the Congress
of the United States, in his oration on the death of James Madison. It is the key to his own
exalted character, and it enables us to measure the benefits he conferred upon his country.
If then you ask what motive enabled him to rise above parties, sects, combinations, prejudices,
passions, and seductions, I answer that he served his country, not alone, or chiefly because
that country was his own, but because he knew her duties and her destiny, and knew her cause
was the cause of human nature.

If you inquire why he was so rigorous in virtue as to be often thought austere, I answer it
was because human nature required the exercise of justice, honor, and gratitude, by all who
were clothed with authority to act in the name of the American people. If you ask why he seemed,
sometimes, with apparent inconsistency, to lend his charities to the distant and the future
rather than to his own kindred and times, I reply, it was because he held that the tenure of
human power is on condition of its being beneficently exercised for the common welfare of the
human race. Such men are of no country. They belong to mankind. If we cannot rise to this height
of virtue, we cannot hope to comprehend the character of John Quincy Adams, or understand the
homage paid by the American people to his memory.

Need it be said that John Quincy Adams studied justice, honor and gratitude, not by the false
standards of the age, but by their own true nature?  He generalized truth, and traced it always
to its source, the bosom of God. Thus in his defence of the Amistad captives he began with
defining justice in the language of Justinian, "Constans et perpetua voluntas jus SUUM cuique
tribuendi." In his vindication of the right of debate, he declared that the principle that
religious opinions were altogether beyond the sphere of legislative control, was but one modification
of a more extensive axiom, which included the unbounded freedom of the press, and of speech,
and of the communication of thought in all its forms. He rested the inviolability of the right
of petition, not on constitutions, or charters, which might be glossed, abrogated or expunged,
but in the inherent right of every animate creature to pray to its superior.

The model by which he formed his character was Cicero. Not the living Cicero, sometimes inconsistent;
often irresolute; too often seeming to act a studied part; and always covetous of applause.
But Cicero, as he aimed to be, and as he appears revealed in those immortal emanations of his
genius which have been the delight and guide of intellect and virtue in every succeeding age.
Like the Roman, Adams was an orator, but he did not fall into the error of the Roman, in practically
valuing eloquence more than the beneficence to which it should be devoted. Like him he was
a statesman and magistrate worthy to be called "The second founder of the Republic,"--like
him a teacher of didactic philosophy, of morals, and even of his own peculiar art; and like
him he made all liberal learning tributary to that noble art, while poetry was the inseparable
companion of his genius in its hours of relaxation from the labors of the forum and of the capitol.

