In the morning they began to unpack their household goods.  Rugs and bearskins found each its
accustomed place upon the floor.  His books went back on the shelves.  With magical swiftness
the cabin resumed its old-home atmosphere.  And that night Bill stretched himself on the grizzly
hide before the fireplace, and kept his nose in a book until Hazel, who was in no humor to
read, fretted herself into something approaching a temper.

"You're about as sociable as a clam," she broke into his absorption at last.

He looked up in surprise, then chucked the volume carelessly aside, and twisted himself around
till his head rested in her lap.

"Vot iss?" he asked cheerfully.  "Lonesome?  Bored with yourself? Ain't I here?"

"Your body is," she retorted.  "But your spirit is communing with those musty old philosophers."

"Oh, be good--go thou and do likewise," he returned impenitently.  "I'm tickled to death to
be home.  And I'm fairly book-starved.  It's fierce to be deprived of even a newspaper for
twelve months.  I'll be a year getting caught up.  Surely you don't feel yourself neglected
because I happen to have my nose stuck in a book?"

"Of course not!" she denied vigorously.  The childish absurdity of her attitude struck her
with sudden force.  "Still, I'd like you to talk to me once in a while."

"'Of shoes and ships and sealing wax; of cabbages and kings,'" he flung at her mischievously.
"I'll make music; that's better than mere words."

He picked up his mandolin and tuned the strings.  Like most things which he set out to do,
Bill had mastered his instrument, and could coax out of it all the harmony of which it was
capable.  He seemed to know music better than many who pass for musicians.  But he broke off
in the midst of a bar.

"Say, we could get a piano in here next spring," he said.  "I just recollected it.  We'll do it."

Now, this was something that she had many a time audibly wished for. Yet the prospect aroused
no enthusiasm.

"That'll be nice," she said--but not as she would have said it a year earlier.  Bill's eyes
narrowed a trifle, but he still smiled.  And suddenly he stepped around behind her chair, put
both hands under her chin, and tilted her head backward.

"Ah, you're plumb sick and tired to death of everything, aren't you?" he said soberly.  "You've
been up here too long.  You sure need a change.  I'll have to take you out and give you the
freedom of the cities, let you dissipate and pink-tea, and rub elbows with the mob for a while.
Then you'll be glad to drift back to this woodsy hiding-place of ours.  When do you want to start?"

"Why, Bill!" she protested.

But she realized in a flash that Bill could read her better than she could read herself.  Few
of her emotions could remain long hidden from that keenly observing and mercilessly logical
mind.  She knew that he guessed where she stood, and by what paths she had gotten there.  Trust
him to know.  And it made her very tender toward him that he was so quick to understand.  Most
men would have resented.

"I want to stack a few tons of hay," he went on, disregarding her exclamation.  "I'll need
it in the spring, if not this winter.  Soon as that's done we'll hit the high spots.  We'll
take three or four thousand dollars, and while it lasts we'll be a couple of--of high-class
tramps.  Huh?  Does it sound good?"

She nodded vigorously.

"High-class tramps," she  repeated musingly.

"That sounds fine."

"Perk up, then," he wheedled.

"Bill-boy," she murmured, "you mustn't take me too seriously."

"I took you for better or for worse," he answered, with a kiss.  "I don't want it to turn out
worse.  I want you to be contented and happy here, where I've planned to make our home.  I
know you love me quite a lot, little person.  Nature fitted us in a good many ways to be mates.
But you've gone through a pretty drastic siege of isolation in this rather grim country, and
I guess it doesn't seem such an alluring place as it did at first.  I don't want you to nurse
that feeling until it becomes chronic.  Then we would be out of tune, and it would be good-by
happiness.  But I think I know the cure for your malady."

That was his final word.  He deliberately switched the conversation into other channels.

In the morning he began his hay cutting.  About eleven o'clock he threw down his scythe and
stalked to the house.

"Put on your hat, and let's go investigate a mystery," said he.  "I heard a cow bawl in the
woods a minute ago.  A regular barnyard bellow."

"A cow bawling?" she echoed.  "Sure?  What would cattle be doing away up here?"

"That's what I want to know?" Bill laughed.  "I've never seen a cow north of the Frazer--not
this side of the Rockies, anyway."

They saddled their horses, and rode out in the direction from whence had arisen the bovine
complaint.  The sound was not repeated, and Hazel had begun to chaff Bill about a too-vivid
imagination when within a half mile of the clearing he pulled his horse up short in the middle
of a little meadow.

"Look!"

The track of a broad-tired wagon had freshly crushed the thick grass. Bill squinted at the
trail, then his gaze swept the timber beyond.

"Well!"

"What is it, Bill?" Hazel asked.

"Somebody has been cutting timber over there," he enlightened.  "I can see the fresh ax work.
Looks like they'd been hauling poles.  Let's follow this track a ways."

The tiny meadow was fringed on the north by a grove of poplars.  Beyond that lay another clear
space of level land, perhaps forty acres in extent.  They broke through the belt of poplars--and
pulled up again.

On one side of the meadow stood a cabin, the fresh-peeled log walls glaring yellow in the sun,
and lifting an earth-covered roof to the autumn sky.  Bill whistled softly.

"I'll be hanged," he uttered, "if there isn't the cow!"

Along the west side of the meadow ran a brown streak of sod, and down one side of this a man
guided the handles of a plow drawn by the strangest yokemates Hazel's eyes had seen for many a day.

"For goodness' sake!" she exclaimed.

"That's the true pioneer spirit for you," Bill spoke absently.  "He has bucked his way into
the heart of a virgin country, and he's breaking sod with a mule and a cow.  That's adaptation
to environment with a vengeance--and grit."

"There's a woman, too, Bill.  And see--she's carrying a baby!"  Hazel pointed excitedly.  "Oh,
Bill!"

"Let's go over."  He stirred up his horse.  "What did I tell you about folk that hanker for
lots of elbow-room?  They're coming."

The man halted his strangely assorted team to watch them come.  The woman stood a step outside
the door, a baby in her arms, another toddler holding fast to her skirt.  A thick-bodied, short,
square-shouldered man was this newcomer, with a round, pleasant face.

"Hello, neighbor!" Bill greeted.

The plowman lifted his old felt hat courteously.  His face lit up.

"Ach!" said he.  "Neighbor.  Dot iss a goot vord in diss country vere dere iss no neighbor.
But I am glat to meet you.  Vill you come do der house und rest a v'ile?"

"Sure!" Bill responded.  "But we're neighbors, all right.  Did you notice a cabin about half
a mile west of here?  That's our place--when we're at home."

"So?"  The word escaped with the peculiar rising inflection of the Teuton.  "I haf saw dot
cabin veil ve come here.  But I dink it vass abandon.  Und I pick dis place mitout hope off
a neighbor.  Id iss goot lant.  Veil, let us to der house go.  Id vill rest der mule--und Gretchen,
der cow.  Hah!"

He rolled a blue eye on his incongruous team, and grinned widely.

"Come," he invited; "mine vife vill be glat."

They found her a matron of thirty-odd; fresh-cheeked, round-faced like her husband, typically
German, without his accent of the Fatherland. Hazel at once appropriated the baby.  It lay
peacefully in her arms, staring wide-eyed, making soft, gurgly sounds.

"The little dear!" Hazel murmured.

"Lauer, our name iss," the man said casually, when they were seated.

"Wagstaff, mine is," Bill completed the informal introduction.

"So?" Lauer responded.  "Id hass a German sount, dot name, yes."

"Four or five generations back," Bill answered.  "I guess I'm as American as they make 'em."

"I am from Bavaria," Lauer told him.  "Vill you shmoke?  I light mine bibe--mit your vife's
permission."

"Yes," he continued, stuffing the bowl of his pipe with a stubby forefinger, "I am from Bavaria.
Dere I vass upon a farm brought oop. I serf in der army my dime.  Den Ameriga.  Dere I marry
my vife, who is born in Milvaukee.  I vork in der big brreweries.  Afder dot I learn to be
a carpenter.  Now I am a kink, mit a castle all mine own, I am no more a vage slafe."

He laughed at his own conceit, a great, roaring bellow that filled the room.

"You're on the right track," Bill nodded.  "It's a pity more people don't take the same notion.
What do you think of this country, anyway?"

"It iss goot," Lauer answered briefly, and with unhesitating certainty. "It iss goot.  Vor
der boor man it iss--it iss salfation.  Mit fife huntret tollars und hiss two hants he can
himself a home make--und a lifing be sure off."

Beside Hazel Lauer's wife absently caressed the blond head of her four-year-old daughter.

"No, I don't think I'll ever get lonesome," she said.  "I'm too glad to be here.  And I've
got lots of work and my babies.  Of course, it's natural I'd miss a woman friend running in
now and then to chat.  But a person can't have it all.  And I'd do anything to have a roof
of our own, and to have it some place where our livin' don't depend on a pay envelope.  Oh,
a city's dreadful, I think, when your next meal almost depends on your man holdin' his job.
I've lived in town ever since I was fifteen.  I lost three babies in Milwaukee--hot weather,
bad air, bad milk, bad everything, unless you have plenty of money.  Many a time I've sat and
cried, just from thinkin' how bad I wanted a little place of our own, where there was grass
and trees and a piece of ground for a garden.  And I knew we'd never be able to buy it.  We
couldn't get ahead enough."

"Und so," her husband took up the tale, "I hear off diss country, vere lant can be for noddings
got.  Und so we scrape und pinch und safe nickels und dimes for fife year.  Und here ve are.
All der vay from Visconsin in der vaigon, yes.  Mit two mules.  In Ashcroft I buy der cow,
so dot ve haf der fresh milk.  Und dot iss lucky.  For von mule iss die on der road.  So I
am plow oop der lant und haul my vaigon mit von mule und Gretchen, der cow."

Hazel had a momentary vision of unrelated hardships by the way, and she wondered how the man
could laugh and his wife smile over it.  She knew the stifling heat of narrow streets in mid-summer,
and the hungry longing for cool, green shade.  She had seen something of a city's poverty.
But she knew also the privations of the trail.  Two thousand miles in a wagon!  And at the
journey's end only a rude cabin of logs--and years of steady toil.  Isolation in a huge and
lonely land. Yet these folk were happy.  She wondered briefly if her own viewpoint were possibly
askew.  She knew that she could not face such a prospect except in utter rebellion.  Not now.
The bleak peaks of the Klappan rose up before her mind's eye, the picture of five horses dead
in the snow, the wolves that snapped and snarled over their bones.  She shuddered.  She was
still pondering this when she and Bill dismounted at home.

CHAPTER XXV

THE DOLLAR CHASERS

Granville took them to its bosom with a haste and earnestness that made Hazel catch her breath.
The Marshes took possession of them upon their arrival, and they were no more than domiciled
under the Marsh roof than all her old friends flocked to call.  Tactfully none so much as mentioned
Andrew Bush, nor the five-thousand-dollar legacy--the disposition of which sum still perplexed
that defunct gentleman's worthy executors.  And once more in a genial atmosphere Hazel concluded
to let sleeping dogs lie.  Many a time in the past two years she had looked forward to cutting
them all as dead as they had cut her during that unfortunate period.  But once among them,
and finding them willing, nay, anxious, to forget that they had ever harbored unjust thoughts
of her, she took their proffered friendship at its face value. It was quite gratifying to know
that many of them envied her.  She learned from various sources that Bill's fortune loomed
big, had grown by some mysterious process of Granville tattle, until it had reached the charmed
six figures of convention.

That in itself was sufficient to establish their prestige.  In a society that lived by and
for the dollar, and measured most things with its dollar yardstick, that murmured item opened--indeed,
forced open--many doors to herself and her husband which would otherwise have remained rigid
on their fastenings.  It was pleasant to be sought out and made much of, and it pleased her
to think that some of her quondam friends were genuinely sorry that they had once stood aloof.
They attempted to atone, it would seem.  For three weeks they lived in an atmosphere of teas
and dinners and theater parties, a giddy little whirl that grew daily more attractive, so far
as Hazel was concerned.

There had been changes.  Jack Barrow had consoled himself with a bride. Moreover, he was making
good, in the popular phrase, at the real-estate game.  The Marshes, as she had previously known
them, had been tottering on the edge of shabby gentility.  But they had come into money.  And
as Bill slangily put it, they were using their pile to cut a lot of social ice.  Kitty Brooks'
husband was now the head of the biggest advertising agency in Granville.  Hazel was glad of
that mild success.  Kitty Brooks was the one person for whom she had always kept a warm corner
in her heart.  Kitty had stood stoutly and unequivocally by her when all the others had viewed
her with a dubious eye.  Aside from these there were scores of young people who revolved in
their same old orbits.  Two years will upon occasion make profound changes in some lives, and
leave others untouched.  But change or no change, she found herself caught up and carried along
on a pleasant tide.

She was inordinately proud of Bill, when she compared him with the average Granville male--yet
she found herself wishing he would adopt a little more readily the Granville viewpoint.  He
fell short of it, or went beyond it, she could not be sure which; she had an uneasy feeling
sometimes that he looked upon Granville doings and Granville folk with amused tolerance, not
unmixed with contempt.  But he attracted attention.  Whenever he was minded to talk he found
ready listeners. And he did not seem to mind being dragged to various functions, matinées,
and the like.  He fell naturally into that mode of existence, no matter that it was in profound
contrast to his previous manner of life, as she knew it.  She felt a huge satisfaction in that.
Anything but a well-bred man would have repelled her, and she had recognized that quality in
Bill Wagstaff even when he had carried her bodily into the wilderness against her explicit
desire that memorable time.  And he was now exhibiting an unsuspected polish.  She used to
wonder amusedly if he were possibly the same Roaring Bill whom she had with her eyes seen hammer
a man insensible with his fists, who had kept "tough" frontiersmen warily side-stepping him
in Cariboo Meadows.  Certainly he was a many-sided individual.

Once or twice she conjured up a vision of his getting into some business there, and utterly
foregoing the North--which for her was already beginning to take on the aspect of a bleak and
cheerless region where there was none of the things which daily whetted her appetite for luxury,
nothing but hardships innumerable--and gold.  The gold had been their reward--a reward well
earned, she thought.  Still--they had been wonderfully happy there at the Pine River cabin,
she remembered.

They came home from a theater party late one night.  Bill sat down by their bedroom window,
and stared out at the street lights, twin rows of yellow beads stretching away to a vanishing
point in the pitch-black of a cloudy night.  Hazel kicked off her slippers, and gratefully
toasted her silk-stockinged feet at a small coal grate.  Fall had come, and there was a sharp
nip to the air.

"Well, what do you think of it as far as you've gone?" he asked abruptly.

"Of what?" she asked, jarred out of meditation upon the play they had just witnessed.

"All this."  He waved a hand comprehensively.  "This giddy swim we've got into."

"I think it's fine," she candidly admitted.  "I'm enjoying myself.  I like it.  Don't you?"

"As a diversion," he observed thoughtfully, "I don't mind it.  These people are all very affable
and pleasant, and they've rather gone out of their way to entertain us.  But, after all, what
the dickens does it amount to?  They spend their whole life running in useless circles.  I
should think they'd get sick of it.  You will."

"Hardly, Billum," she smiled.  "We're merely making up for two years of isolation.  I think
we must be remarkable people that we didn't fight like cats and dogs.  For eighteen months,
you know, there wasn't a soul to talk to, and not much to think about except what you could
do if you were some place else."

"You're acquiring the atmosphere," he remarked--sardonically, she thought.

"No; just enjoying myself," she replied lightly.

"Well, if you really are," he answered slowly, "we may as well settle here for the winter--and
get settled right away.  I'm rather weary of being a guest in another man's house, to tell
you the truth."

"Why, I'd love to stay here all winter," she said.  "But I thought you intended to knock around
more or less."

"But don't you see, you don't particularly care to," he pointed out; "and it would spoil the
fun of going any place for me if you were not interested.  And when it comes to a show-down
I'm not aching to be a bird of passage.  One city is pretty much like another to me.  You seem
to have acquired a fairly select circle of friends and acquaintances, and you may as well have
your fling right here.  We'll take a run over to New York.  I want to get some books and things.
Then we'll come back here and get a house or a flat.  I tell you right now," he laughed not
unpleasantly, "I'm going to renig on this society game.  You can play it as hard as you like,
until spring.  I'll be there with bells on when it comes to a dance.  And I'll go to a show--when
a good play comes along.  But I won't mix up with a lot of silly women and equally silly she-men,
any more than is absolutely necessary."

"Why, Bill!" she exclaimed, aghast.

"Well, ain't it so?" he defended lazily.  "There's Kitty Brooks--she has certainly got intelligence
above the average.  That Lorimer girl has brains superimposed on her artistic temperament,
and she uses 'em to advantage.  Practically all the rest that I've met are intellectual nonentities--strong
on looks and clothes and amusing themselves, and that lets them out.  And they have no excuse,
because they've had unlimited advantages.  The men divide themselves into two types.  One that
chases the dollar, talks business, thinks business, knows nothing outside of business, and
their own special line of business at that; the other type, like these Arthur fellows, and
Dave Allan and T. Fordham Brown, who go in for afternoon teas and such gentlemanly pastimes,
and whose most strenuous exercise is a game of billiards. Shucks, there isn't a real man in
the lot.  Maybe I'll run across some people who don't take a two-by-four view of life if I
stay around here long enough, but it hasn't happened to me yet.  I hope I'm not an intellectual
snob, little person, any more than I'm puffed up over happening to be a little bigger and stronger
than the average man, but I must say that the habitual conversation of these people gives me
a pain.  That platitudinous discussion of the play to-night, for instance."

"That was droll."  Hazel chuckled at the recollection, and she recalled the weary look that
had once or twice flitted over Bill's face during that after-theater supper.

But she herself could see only the humor of it.  She was fascinated by the social niceties
and the surroundings of the set she had drifted into.  The little dinners, the impromptu teas,
the light chatter and general atmosphere of luxury more than counterbalanced any other lack.
She wanted only to play, and she was prepared to seize avidly on any form of pleasure, no matter
if in last analysis it were utterly frivolous.  She could smile at the mental vacuity she encountered,
and think nothing of it, if with that vacuity went those material factors which made for ease
and entertainment.  The physical side of her was all alert.  Luxury and the mild excitements
of a social life that took nothing seriously, those were the things she craved.  For a long
time she had been totally deprived of them.  Nor had such unlimited opportunities ever before
been in her grasp.

"Yes, that was droll," she repeated.

Bill snorted.

"Droll?  Perhaps," he said.  "Blatant ignorance, coupled with a desire to appear the possessor
of culture, is sometimes amusing.  But as a general thing it simply irritates."

"You're hard to please," she replied.  "Can't you enjoy yourself, take things as they come,
without being so critical?"

He shrugged his shoulders, and remained silent.

"Well," he said presently, "we'll take that jaunt to New York day after to-morrow."

He was still sitting by the window when Hazel was ready to go to bed. She came back into the
room in a trailing silk kimono, and, stealing softly up behind him, put both hands on his shoulders.

"What are you thinking so hard about, Billy-boy?" she whispered.

"I was thinking about Jake Lauer, and wondering how he was making it go," Bill answered.  "I
was also picturing to myself how some of these worthy citizens would mess things up if they
had to follow in his steps.  Hang it, I don't know but we'd be better off if we were pegging
away for a foothold somewhere, like old Jake."

"If we had to do that," she argued, "I suppose we would, and manage to get along.  But since
we don't have to, why wish for it?  Money makes things pleasanter."

"If money meant that we would be compelled to lead the sort of existence most of these people
do," he retorted, "I'd take measures to be broke as soon as possible.  What the deuce is there
to it?  The women get up in the morning, spend the forenoon fixing themselves up to take in
some innocuous gabblefest after luncheon.  Then they get into their war paint for dinner, and
after dinner rush madly off to some other festive stunt.  Swell rags and a giddy round.  If
it were just fun, it would be all right.  But it's the serious business of life with them.
And the men are in the same boat.  All of 'em collectively don't amount to a pinch of snuff.
This thing that they call business is mostly gambling with what somebody else has sweated to
produce. They're a soft-handed, soft-bodied lot of incompetent egotists, if you ask me.  Any
of 'em would lick your boots in a genteel sort of way if there was money in it; and they'd
just as cheerfully chisel their best friend out of his last dollar, if it could be done in
a business way. They haven't even the saving grace of physical hardihood."

"You're awful!" Hazel commented.

Bill snorted again.

"To-morrow, you advise our hostess that we're traveling," he instructed.  "When we come back
we'll make headquarters at a hotel until we locate a place of our own--if you are sure you
want to winter here."

Her mind was quite made up to spend the winter there, and she frankly said so--provided he
had no other choice.  They had to winter somewhere.  They had set out to spend a few months
in pleasant idleness.  They could well afford that.  And, unless he had other plans definitely
formed, was not Granville as good as any place?  Was it not better, seeing that they did know
some one there?  It was big enough to afford practically all the advantages of any city.

"Oh, yes, I suppose so.  All right; we'll winter here," Bill acquiesced.  "That's settled."

And, as was his habit when he had come to a similar conclusion, he refused to talk further
on that subject, but fell to speculating idly on New York.  In which he was presently aided
and abetted by Hazel, who had never invaded Manhattan, nor, for that matter, any of the big
Atlantic cities.  She had grown up in Granville, with but brief journeys to near-by points.
And Granville could scarcely be classed as a metropolis.  It numbered a trifle over three hundred
thousand souls. Bill had termed it "provincial."  But it meant more to her than any other place
in the East, by virtue of old associations and more recent acquaintance.  One must have a pivotal
point of such a sort, just as one cannot forego the possession of a nationality.

New York, she was constrained to admit, rather overwhelmed her.  She traversed Broadway and
other world-known arteries, and felt a trifle dubious amid the unceasing crush.  Bill piloted
her to famous cafés, and to equally famous theaters.  She made sundry purchases in magnificent
shops.  The huge conglomeration of sights and sounds made an unforgettable impression upon
her.  She sensed keenly the colossal magnitude of it all.  But she felt a distinct wave of
relief when they were Granville bound once more.

In a week they were settled comfortably in a domicile of their own--five rooms in an up-to-date
apartment house.  And since the social demands on Mrs. William Wagstaff's time grew apace,
a capable maid and a cook were added to the Wagstaff establishment.  Thus she was relieved
of the onus of housework.  Her time was wholly her own, at her own disposal or Bill's, as she
elected.

But by imperceptible degrees they came to take diverse roads in the swirl of life which had
caught them up.  There were so many little woman affairs where a man was superfluous.  There
were others which Bill flatly refused to attend.  "Hen parties," he dubbed them.  More and
more he remained at home with his books.  Invariably he read through the daytime, and unless
to take Hazel for a walk or a drive, or some simple pleasure which they could indulge in by
themselves, he would not budge.  If it were night, and a dance was to the fore, he would dress
and go gladly.  At such, and upon certain occasions when a certain little group would take
supper at some café, he was apparently in his element.  But there was always a back fire if
Hazel managed to persuade him to attend anything in the nature of a formal affair.  He drew
the line at what he defined as social tommyrot, and he drew it more and more sharply.

Sometimes Hazel caught herself wondering if they were getting as much out of the holiday as
they should have gotten, as they had planned to get when they were struggling through that
interminable winter.  She was.  But not Bill.  And while she wished that he could get the same
satisfaction out of his surroundings and opportunities as she conceived herself to be getting,
she often grew impatient with his sardonic, tolerant contempt toward the particular set she
mostly consorted with. If she ventured to give a tea, he fled the house as if from the plague.
He made acquaintances of his own, men from God only knew where, individuals who occasionally
filled the dainty apartment with malodorous tobacco fumes, and who would cheerfully sit up
all night discoursing earnestly on any subject under the sun.  But so long as Bill found Granville
habitable she did not mind.

Above all, as the winter and the winter gayety set in together with equal vigor, she thought
with greater reluctance of the ultimate return to that hushed, deep-forested area that surrounded
the cabin.

She wished fervently that Bill would take up some business that would keep him in touch with
civilization.  He had the capital, she considered, and there was no question of his ability.
Her faith in his power to encompass whatever he set about was strong.  Other men, less gifted,
had acquired wealth, power, even a measure of fame, from a less auspicious beginning.  Why not he?

It seemed absurd to bury one's self in an uninhabited waste, when life held forth so much to
be grasped.  Her friends told her so--thus confirming her own judgment.  But she could never
quite bring herself to put it in so many words to Bill.

CHAPTER XXVI

A BUSINESS PROPOSITION

The cycle of weeks brought them to January.  They had dropped into something of a routine in
their daily lives.  Bill's interest and participation in social affairs became negligible.
Of Hazel's circle he classed some half dozen people as desirable acquaintances, and saw more
or less of them--Kitty Brooks and her husband; Vesta Lorimer, a keen-witted young woman upon
whom nature had bestowed a double portion of physical attractiveness and a talent akin to genius
for the painting of miniatures; her Brother Paul, who was the silent partner in a brokerage
firm; Doctor Hart, a silent, grim-visaged physician, whose vivacious wife was one of Hazel's
new intimates.  Of that group Bill was always a willing member.  The others he met courteously
when he was compelled to meet them; otherwise he passed them up entirely.

When he was not absorbed in a book or magazine, he spent his time in some downtown haunt, having
acquired membership in a club as a concession to their manner of life.  Once he came home with
flushed face and overbright eyes, radiating an odor of whisky.  Hazel had never seen him drink
to excess.  She was correspondingly shocked, and took no pains to hide her feelings.  But Bill
was blandly undisturbed.

"You don't need to look so horrified," he drawled.  "I won't beat you up nor wreck the furniture.
Inadvertently took a few too many, that's all.  Nothing else to do, anyhow.  Your friend Brooks'
Carlton Club is as barren a place as one of your tea fights.  They don't do anything much but
sit around and drink Scotch and soda, and talk about the market.  I'm drunk, and glad of it.
If I were in Cariboo Meadows, now," he confided owlishly, "I'd have some fun with the natives.
You can't turn yourself loose here.  It's too blame civilized and proper. I had half a notion
to lick a Johnnie or two, just for sport, and then I thought probably they'd have me up for
assault and battery.  Just recollected our social reputation--long may she wave--in time."

"Your reputation certainly won't be unblemished if any one saw you come in in that condition,"
she cried, in angry mortification.  "Surely you could find something better to do than to get
drunk."

"I'm going straight to bed, little person," he returned.  "Scold not, nor fret.  William will
be himself again ere yet the morrow's sun shall clear the horizon.  Let us avoid recrimination.
The tongue is, or would seem to be, the most vital weapon of modern society.  Therefore let
us leave the trenchant blade quiescent in its scabbard.  I'd rather settle a dispute with my
fists, or even a gun.  Good night."

He made his unsteady way to their extra bedroom, and he was still there with the door locked
when Hazel returned from a card party at the Krones'.  It was the first night they had spent
apart since their marriage, and Hazel was inclined to be huffed when he looked in before breakfast,
dressed, shaved, and smiling, as if he had never had even a bowing acquaintance with John Barleycorn.
But Bill refused to take her indignation seriously, and it died for lack of fuel.

A week or so later he became suddenly and unexpectedly active.  He left the house as soon as
his breakfast was eaten, and he did not come home to luncheon--a circumstance which irritated
Hazel, since it was one of those rare days when she herself lunched at home.  Late in the afternoon
he telephoned briefly that he would dine downtown.  And when he did return, at nine or thereabouts
in the evening, he clamped a cigar between his teeth, and fell to work covering a sheet of
paper with interminable rows of figures.

Hazel had worried over the possibility of his having had another tilt with the Scotch and sodas.
He relieved her of that fear, and she restrained her curiosity until boredom seized her.  The
silence and the scratching of his pen began to grate on her nerves.

"What is all the clerical work about?" she inquired.  "Reckoning your assets and liabilities?"

Bill smiled and pushed aside the paper.

"I'm going to promote a mining company," he told her, quite casually. "It has been put up to
me as a business proposition--and I've got to the stage where I have to do something, or I'll
sure have the Willies."

She overlooked the latter statement; it conveyed no special significance at the time.  But
his first statement opened up possibilities such as of late she had sincerely hoped would come
to pass, and she was all interest.

"Promote a mining company?" she repeated.  "That sounds extremely businesslike.  How--when--where?"

"Now--here in Granville," he replied.  "The how is largely Paul Lorimer's idea.  You see,"
he continued, warming up a bit to the subject, "when I was prospecting that creek where we
made the clean-up last summer, I ran across a well-defined quartz lead.  I packed out a few
samples in my pockets, and I happened to show them as well as one or two of the nuggets to
some of these fellows at the club a while back.  Lorimer took a piece of the quartz and had
it assayed.  It looms up as something pretty big.  So he and Brooks and a couple of other fellows
want me to go ahead and organize and locate a group of claims in there.  Twenty or thirty thousand
dollars capital might make 'em all rich.  Of course, the placer end of it will be the big thing
while the lode is being developed.  It should pay well from the start.  Getting the start is
easy.  As a matter of fact, you could sell any old wildcat that has the magic of gold about
it.  Men seem to get the fever as soon as they finger the real yellow stuff.  These fellows
I've talked to are dead anxious to get in."

"But"--her knowledge of business methods suggested a difficulty--"you can't sell stock in a
business that has no real foundation--yet.  Don't you have to locate those claims first?"

"Wise old head; you have the idea, all right."  He smiled.  "But this is not a stock-jobbing
proposition.  I wouldn't be in on it if it were, believe me.  It's to be a corporation, where
not to exceed six men will own all the stock that's issued.  And so far as the claims are concerned,
I've got Whitey Lewis located in Fort George, and I've been burning the wires and spending
a bundle of real money getting him grub-staked.  He has got four men besides himself all ready
to hit the trail as soon as I give the word."

"You won't have to go?" she put in quickly.

"No," he murmured.  "It isn't necessary, at this particular stage of the game.  But I wouldn't
mind popping a whip over a good string of dogs, just the same."

"B-r-r-r!" she shivered involuntarily.  "Four hundred miles across that deep snow, through
that steady, flesh-searing cold.  I don't envy them the journey."

Bill relapsed into unsmiling silence, sprawling listless in his chair, staring absently at
the rug, as if he had lost all interest in the matter.

"If you stay here and manage this end of it," she pursued lightly, "I suppose you'll have an
office downtown."

"I suppose so," he returned laconically.

She came over and stood by him, playfully rumpling his brown hair with her fingers.

"I'm glad you've found something to loose that pent-up energy of yours on, Billy-boy," she
said.  "You'll make a success of it, I know.  I don't see why you shouldn't make a success
of any kind of business. But I didn't think you'd ever tackle business.  You have such peculiar
views about business and business practice."

"I despise the ordinary business ethic," he returned sharply.  "It's a get-something-for-nothing
proposition all the way through; it is based on exploiting the other fellow in one form or
another.  I refuse to exploit my fellows along the accepted lines--or any lines.  I don't have
to; there are too many other ways of making a living open to me. I don't care to live fat and
make some one else foot the bill.  But I can exploit the resources of nature.  And that is
my plan.  If we make money it won't be filched by a complex process from the other fellow's
pockets; it won't be wealth created by shearing lambs in the market, by sweatshop labor, or
adulterated food, or exorbitant rental of filthy tenements.  And I have no illusions about
the men I'm dealing with.  If they undertake to make a get-rich-quick scheme of it I'll knock
the whole business in the head.  I'm not overly anxious to get into it with them.  But it promises
action of some sort--and I have to do something till spring."

In the spring!  That brief phrase set Hazel to sober thinking.  With April or May Bill would
spread his wings for the North.  There would be no more staying him than the flight of the
wild goose to the reedy nesting grounds could be stayed.  Well, a summer in the North would
not be so bad, she reflected.  But she hated to think of the isolation.  It grieved her to
contemplate exchanging her beautifully furnished apartment for a log cabin in the woods.  There
would be a dreary relapse into monotony after months of association with clever people, the
swift succession of brilliant little functions.  It all delighted her; she responded to her
present surroundings as naturally as a grain of wheat responds to the germinating influences
of warmth and moisture. It did not occur to her that saving Bill Wagstaff's advent into her
life she might have been denied all this.  Indeed she felt a trifle resentful that he should
prefer the forested solitudes to the pleasant social byways of Granville.

Still she had hopes.  If he plunged into business associations with Jimmie Brooks and Paul
Lorimer and others of that group, there was no telling what might happen.  His interests might
become permanently identified with Granville.  She loved her big, wide-shouldered man, anyway.
So she continued to playfully rumple his hair and kept her thoughts to herself.

Bill informed her from time to time as to the progress of his venture. Brooks and Lorimer put
him in touch with two others who were ready to chance money on the strength of Bill's statements.
The company was duly incorporated, with an authorized capital of one hundred thousand dollars,
five thousand dollars' worth of stock being taken out by each on a cash basis--the remaining
seventy-five thousand lying in the company treasury, to be held or sold for development purposes
as the five saw fit when work began to show what the claims were capable of producing.

Whitey Lewis set out.  Bill stuck a map on their living-room wall and pointed off each day's
journey with a pin.  Hazel sometimes studied the map, and pitied them.  So many miles daily
in a dreary waste of snow; nights when the frost thrust its keen-pointed lances into their
tired bodies; food cooked with numbed fingers; the dismal howling of wolves; white frost and
clinging icicles upon their beards as they trudged across trackless areas; and over all that
awesome hush which she had learned to dread--breathless, brooding silence.  Gold madness or
trail madness, or simply adventurous unrest?  She could not say.  She knew only that a certain
type of man found pleasure in such mad undertakings, bucked hard trails and plunged headlong
into vast solitudes, and permitted no hardship nor danger to turn him back.

Bill was tinged with that madness for unbeaten trails.  But surely when a man mated, and had
a home and all that makes home desirable, he should forsake the old ways?  Once when she found
him studying the map, traversing a route with his forefinger and muttering to himself, she
had a quick catch at her heart--as if hers were already poised to go. And she could not follow
him.  Once she had thought to do that, and gloried in the prospect.  But his trail, his wilderness
trail, and his trail gait, were not for any woman to follow.  It was too big a job for any
woman.  And she could not let him go alone.  He might never come back.

Not so long since she and Kitty Brooks had been discussing a certain couple who had separated.
Vesta Lorimer sat by, listening.

"How could they help but fail in mutual flight?" the Lorimer girl had demanded.  "An eagle
mated to a domestic fowl!"

And, watching Bill stare at the map, his body there but the soul of him tramping the wild woods,
she recalled Vesta Lorimer's characterization of that other pair.  Surely this man of hers
was of the eagle brood. But there, in her mind, the simile ended.

In early March came a telegram from Whitey Lewis saying that he had staked the claims, both
placer and lode; that he was bound out by the Telegraph Trail to file at Hazleton.  Bill showed
her the message--wired from Station Six.

"I wish I could have been in on it--that was some trip," he said--and there was a trace of
discontent in his tone.  "I don't fancy somebody else pawing my chestnuts out of the coals
for me.  It was sure a man's job to cross the Klappan in the dead of winter."

The filing completed, there was ample work in the way of getting out and whipsawing timber
to keep the five men busy till spring--the five who were on the ground.  Lewis sent word that
thirty feet of snow lay in the gold-bearing branch.  And that was the last they heard from
him. He was a performer, Bill said, not a correspondent.

So in Granville the affairs of the Free Gold Mining Company remained at a standstill until
the spring floods should peel off the winter blanket of the North.  Hazel was fully occupied,
and Bill dwelt largely with his books, or sketched and figured on operations at the claims.
Their domestic affairs moved with the smoothness of a perfectly balanced machine.  To the very
uttermost Hazel enjoyed the well-appointed orderliness of it all, the unruffled placidity of
an existence where the unexpected, the disagreeable, the uncouth, was wholly eliminated, where
all the strange shifts and struggles of her two years beyond the Rockies were altogether absent
and impossible.  Bill's views he kept largely to himself.  And Hazel began to nurse the idea
that he was looking upon civilization with a kindlier eye.

Ultimately, spring overspread the eastern provinces.  And when the snows of winter successively
gave way to muddy streets and then to clean pavements in the city of Granville, a new gilt
sign was lettered across the windows of the brokerage office in which Paul Lorimer was housed.

  FREE GOLD MINING COMPANY

  P. H. Lorimer, Pres.            J. L. Brooks, Sec.-Treas.

  William Wagstaff, Manager.

So it ran.  Bill was commissioned in the army of business at last.

CHAPTER XXVII

A BUSINESS JOURNEY

"I have to go to the Klappan," Bill apprised his wife one evening. "Want to come along?"

Hazel hesitated.  Her first instinctive feeling was one of reluctance to retrace that nerve-trying
trail.  But neither did she wish to be separated from him.

"I see you don't," he observed dryly.  "Well, I can't say that I blame you.  It's a stiff trip.
If your wind and muscle are in as poor shape as mine, I guess it would do you up--the effort
would be greater than any possible pleasure."

"I'm sorry I can't feel any enthusiasm for such a journey," she remarked candidly.  "I could
go as far as the coast with you, and meet you there when you come out.  How long do you expect
to be in there?"

"I don't know exactly," he replied.  "I'm not going in from the coast, though.  I'm taking
the Ashcroft-Fort George Trail.  I have to take in a pack train and more men and get work started
on a decent scale."

"But you won't have to stay there all summer and oversee the work, will you?" she inquired
anxiously.

"I should," he said.

For a second or two he drummed on the table top.

"I should do that.  It's what I had in mind when I started this thing," he said wistfully.
"I thought we'd go in this spring and rush things through the good weather, and come out ahead
of the snow.  We could stay a while at the ranch, and break up the winter with a jaunt here
or some place."

"But is there any real necessity for you to stay on the ground?"  She pursued her own line
of thought.  "I should think an undertaking of this size would justify hiring an expert to
take charge of the actual mining operations.  Won't you have this end of it to look after?"

"Lorimer and Brooks are eminently capable of upholding the dignity and importance of that sign
they've got smeared across the windows downtown," he observed curtly.  "The chief labor of
the office they've set up will be to divide the proceeds.  The work will be done and the money
made in the Klappan Range.  You sabe that, don't you?"

"I'm not stupid," she pouted.

"I know you're not, little person," he said quietly.  "But you've changed a heap in the last
few months.  You don't seem to be my pal any more.  You've fallen in love with this butterfly
life.  You appear to like me just as much as ever, but if you could you'd sentence me to this
kid-glove existence for the rest of my natural life.  Great Caesar's ghost!" he burst out.
"I've laid around like a well-fed poodle for seven months.  And look at me--I'm mush!  Ten
miles with a sixty-pound pack would make my tongue hang out.  I'm thick-winded, and twenty
pounds over-weight--and you talk calmly about my settling down to office work!"

His semi-indignation, curiously enough, affected Hazel as being altogether humorous.  She had
a smile-compelling vision of that straight, lean-limbed, powerful body developing a protuberant
waistline and a double chin.  That was really funny, so far-fetched did it seem. And she laughed.
Bill froze into rigid silence.

"I'm going to-morrow," he said suddenly.  "I think, on the whole, it'll be just as well if
you don't go.  Stay here and enjoy yourself.  I'll transfer some more money to your account.
I think I'll drop down to the club."

She followed him out into the hall, and, as he wriggled into his coat, she had an impulse to
throw her arms around his neck and declare, in all sincerity, that she would go to the Klappan
or to the north pole or any place on earth with him, if he wanted her.  But by some peculiar
feminine reasoning she reflected in the same instant that if Bill were away from her in a few
weeks he would be all the more glad to get back. That closed her mouth.  She felt too secure
in his affection to believe it could be otherwise.  And then she would cheerfully capitulate
and go back with him to his beloved North, to the Klappan or the ranch or wherever he chose.
It was not wise to be too meek or obedient where a husband was concerned.  That was another
mite of wisdom she had garnered from the wives of her circle.

So she kissed Bill good-by at the station next day with perfect good humor and no parting emotion
of any particular keenness.  And if he were a trifle sober he showed no sign of resentment,
nor uttered any futile wishes that she could accompany him.

"So long," he said from the car steps.  "I'll keep in touch--all I can."

Then he was gone.

Somehow, his absence made less difference than Hazel had anticipated. She had secretly expected
to be very lonely at first.  And she was not. She began to realize that, unconsciously, they
had of late so arranged their manner of life that separation was a question of degree rather
than kind.  It seemed that she could never quite forego the impression that Bill was near at
hand.  She always thought of him as downtown or in the living-room, with his feet up on the
mantel and a cigar in his mouth.  Even when in her hand she held a telegram dated at a point
five hundred or a thousand miles or double that distance away she did not experience the feeling
of complete bodily absence.  She always felt as if he were near.  Only at night, when there
was no long arm to pillow her head, no good-night kiss as she dozed into slumber, she missed
him, realized that he was far away.  Even when the days marched past, mustering themselves
in weekly and monthly platoons and Bill still remained in the Klappan, she experienced no dreary
leadenness of soul. Her time passed pleasantly enough.

Early in June came a brief wire from Station Six.  Three weeks later the Free Gold Mining Company
set up a mild ripple of excitement along Broad Street by exhibiting in their office window
a forty-pound heap of coarse gold; raw, yellow gold, just as it had come from the sluice. Every
day knots of men stood gazing at the treasure.  The Granville papers devoted sundry columns
to this remarkably successful enterprise of its local business men.  Bill had forwarded the
first clean-up.

And close on the heels of this--ten days later, to be exact--he came home.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE BOMB

"You great bear," Hazel laughed, in the shelter of his encircling arms. "My, it's good to see
you again."

She pushed herself back a little and surveyed him admiringly, with a gratified sense of proprietorship.
The cheeks of him were tanned to a healthy brown, his eyes clear and shining.  The offending
flesh had fallen away on the strenuous paths of the Klappan.  He radiated boundless vitality,
strength, alertness, that perfect co-ordination of mind and body that is bred of faring resourcefully
along rude ways. Few of his type trod the streets of Granville.  It was a product solely of
the outer places.  And for the time being the old, vivid emotion surged strong within her.
She thrilled at the touch of his hand, was content to lay her head on his shoulder and forget
everything in the joy of his physical nearness.  But the maid announced dinner, and her man
must be fed.  He had missed luncheon on the train, he told her, by reason of an absorbing game
of whist.

"Come, then," said she.  "You must be starving."

They elected to spend the evening quietly at home, as they used to do. To Hazel it seemed quite
like old times.  Bill told her of the Klappan country, and their prospects at the mine.

"It's going to be a mighty big thing," he declared.

"I'm so glad," said Hazel.

"We've got a group of ten claims.  Whitey Lewis and the original stakers hold an interest in
their claims.  I, acting as agent for these other fellows in the company, staked five more.
I took in eight more men--and, believe me, things were humming when I left.  Lewis is a great
rustler.  He had out lots of timber, and we put in a wing dam three hundred feet long, so she
can flood and be darned; they'll keep the sluice working just the same.  And that quartz lead
will justify a fifty-thousand-dollar mill.  So I'm told by an expert I took in to look it over.
And, say, I went in by the ranch.  Old Jake has a fine garden.  He's still pegging away with
the mule 'und Gretchen, der cow.' I offered him a chance to make a fat little stake at the
mine, but he didn't want to leave the ranch.  Great old feller, Jake.  Something of a philosopher
in his way.  Pretty wise old head.  He'll make good, all right."

In the morning, Bill ate his breakfast and started downtown.

"That's the dickens of being a business man," he complained to Hazel, in the hallway.  "It
rides a man, once it gets hold of him.  I'd rather get a machine and go joy riding with you
than anything else.  But I have to go and make a long-winded report; and I suppose those fellows
will want to talk gold by the yard.  Adios, little person.  I'll get out for lunch, business
or no business."

Eleven-thirty brought him home, preoccupied and frowning.  And he carried his frown and his
preoccupation to the table.

"Whatever is the matter, Bill?" Hazel anxiously inquired.

"Oh, I've got a nasty hunch that there's a nigger in the woodpile," he replied.

"What woodpile?" she asked.

"I'll tell you more about it to-night," he said bluntly.  "I'm going to pry something loose
this afternoon or know the reason why."

"Is something the matter about the mine?" she persisted.

"No," he answered grimly.  "There's nothing the matter with the mine. It's the mining company."

And that was all he vouchsafed.  He finished his luncheon and left the house.  He was scarcely
out of sight when Jimmie Brooks' runabout drew up at the curb.  A half minute later he was
ushered into the living-room.

"Bill in?" was his first query.

"No, he left just a few minutes ago," Hazel told him.

Mr. Brooks, a short, heavy-set, neatly dressed gentleman, whose rather weak blue eyes loomed
preternaturally large and protuberant behind pince-nez that straddled an insignificant snub
nose, took off his glasses and twiddled them in his white, well-kept fingers.

"Ah, too bad!" he murmured.  "Thought I'd catch him.

"By the way," he continued, after a pause, "you--ah--well, frankly, I have reason to believe
that you have a good deal of influence with your husband in business matters, Mrs. Wagstaff.
Kitty says so, and she don't make mistakes very often in sizing up a situation."

"Well, I don't know; perhaps I have."  Hazel smiled noncommittally. She wondered what had led
Kitty Brooks to that conclusion.  "Why?"

"Well--ah--you see," he began rather lamely.  "The fact is--I hope you'll regard this as strictly
confidential, Mrs. Wagstaff.  I wouldn't want Bill to think I, or any of us, was trying to
bring pressure on him.  But the fact is, Bill's got a mistaken impression about the way we're
conducting the financial end of this mining proposition.  You understand?  Very able man, your
husband, but headstrong as the deuce. I'm afraid--to speak frankly--he'll create a lot of unpleasantness.
Might disrupt the company, in fact, if he sticks to the position he took this morning.  Thought
I'd run in and talk it over with him. Fellow's generally in a good humor, you know, when he's
lunched comfortably at home."

"I'm quite in the dark," Hazel confessed.  "Bill seemed a trifle put out about something. 
He didn't say what it was about."

"Shall I explain?" Mr. Brooks suggested.  "You'd understand--and you might be able to help.
I don't as a rule believe in bringing business into the home, but this bothers me.  I hate
to see a good thing go wrong."

"Explain, by all means," Hazel promptly replied.  "If I can help, I'll be glad to."

"Thank you."  Mr. Brooks polished his glasses industriously for a second and replaced them
with painstaking exactitude.  "Now--ah--this is the situation: When the company was formed,
five of us, including your husband, took up enough stock to finance the preliminary work of
the undertaking.  The remaining stock, seventy-five thousand dollars in amount, was left in
the treasury, to be held or put on the market as the situation warranted.  Bill was quite conservative
in his first statements concerning the property, and we all felt inclined to go slow.  But
when Bill got out there on the ground and the thing began to pay enormously right from the
beginning, we--that is, the four of us here, decided we ought to enlarge our scope.  With the
first clean-up, Bill forwarded facts and figures to show that we had a property far beyond
our greatest expectations.  And, of course, we saw at once that the thing was ridiculously
undercapitalized.  By putting the balance of the stock on the market, we could secure funds
to work on a much larger scale.  Why, this first shipment of gold is equal to an annual dividend
of ten per cent on four hundred thousand dollars capital.  It's immense, for six weeks' work.

"So we held a meeting and authorized the secretary to sell stock. Naturally, your husband wasn't
cognizant of this move, for the simple reason that there was no way of reaching him--and his
interests were thoroughly protected, anyway.  The stock was listed on Change.  A good bit was
disposed of privately.  We now have a large fund in the treasury.  It's a cinch.  We've got
the property, and it's rich enough to pay dividends on a million.  The decision of the stockholders
is unanimously for enlargement of the capital stock.  The quicker we get that property to its
maximum output the more we make, you see.  There's a fine vein of quartz to develop, expensive
machinery to install.  It's no more than fair that these outsiders who are clamoring to get
aboard should pay their share of the expense of organization and promotion. You understand?
You follow me?"

"Certainly," Hazel answered.  "But what is the difficulty with Bill?"

Mr. Brooks once more had recourse to polishing his pince-nez.

"Bill is opposed to the whole plan," he said, pursing up his lips with evident disapproval
of Bill Wagstaff and all his works.  "He seems to feel that we should not have taken this step.
He declares that no more stock must be sold; that there must be no enlargement of capital.
In fact, that we must peg along in the little one-horse way we started. And that would be a
shame.  We could make the Free Gold Mining Company the biggest thing on the map, and put ourselves
all on Easy Street."

He spread his hands in a gesture of real regret.

"Bill's a fine fellow," he said, "and one of my best friends.  But he's a hard man to do business
with.  He takes a very peculiar view of the matter.  I'm afraid he'll queer the company if
he stirs up trouble over this.  That's why I hope you'll use whatever influence you have, to
induce him to withdraw his opposition."

"But," Hazel murmured, in some perplexity, "from what little I know of corporations, I don't
see how he can set up any difficulty.  If a majority of the stock-holders decide to do anything,
that settles it, doesn't it?  Bill is a minority of one, from what you say.  And I don't see
what difference his objections make, anyway.  How can he stop you from taking any line of action
whatever?"

"Oh, not that at all," Brooks hastily assured.  "Of course, we can outvote him, and put it
through.  But we want him with us, don't you see?  We've a high opinion of his ability.  He's
the sort of man who gets results; practical, you know; knows mining to a T.  Only he shies
at our financial method.  And if he began any foolish litigation, or silly rumors got started
about trouble among the company officers, it's bound to hurt the stock.  It's all right, I
assure you.  We're not foisting a wildcat on the market.  We've got the goods.  Bill admits
that.  It's the regular method, not only legitimate, but good finance. Every dollar's worth
of stock sold has the value behind it. Distributes the risk a little more, that's all, and
gives the company a fund to operate successfully.

"If Bill mentions it, you might suggest that he look into the matter a little more fully before
he takes any definite action," Brooks concluded, rising.  "I must get down to the office. 
It's his own interests I'm thinking of, as much as my own.  Of course, he couldn't block a
reorganization--but we want to satisfy him in every particular, and, at the same time, carry
out these plans.  It's a big thing for all of us.  A big thing, I assure you."

He rolled away in his car, and Hazel watched him from the window, a trifle puzzled.  She recalled
Bill's remark at luncheon.  In the light of Brooks' explanation, she could see nothing wrong.
On the other hand, she knew Bill Wagstaff was not prone to jump at rash conclusions. It was
largely his habit to give others the benefit of the doubt.  If he objected to certain manipulations
of the Free Gold Mining Company, his objection was likely to be based on substantial grounds.
But then, as Brooks had observed, or, rather, inferred, Bill was not exactly an expert on finance,
and this new deal savored of pure finance--a term which she had heard Bill scoff at more than
once.  At any rate, she hoped nothing disagreeable would come of it.

So she put the whole matter out of her mind.  She had an engagement with a dressmaker, and
an invitation to afternoon tea following on that.  She dressed, and went whole-heartedly about
her own affairs.

Dinner time was drawing close when she returned home.  She sat down by a window that overlooked
the street to watch for Bill.  As a general thing he was promptness personified, and since
he was but twenty-four hours returned from a three months' absence, she felt that he would
not linger--and Granville's business normally ceased at five o'clock.

Six passed.  The half-hour chime struck on the mantel clock.  Hazel grew impatient, petulant,
aggrieved.  Dinner would be served in twenty minutes.  Still there was no sign of him.  And
for lack of other occupation she went into the hall and got the evening paper, which the carrier
had just delivered.

A staring headline on the front page stiffened her to scandalized attention.  Straight across
the tops of two columns it ran, a facetious caption:

WILLIAM WAGSTAFF IS A BEAR

Under that the subhead:

Husky Mining Man Tumbles Prices and Brokers.  Whips Four men in Broad Street Office.  Slugs
Another on Change.  His Mighty Fists Subdue Society's Finest.  Finally Lands in Jail.

The body of the article Hazel read in what a sob sister would describe as a state of mingled
emotions.

William Wagstaff is a mining gentleman from the northern wilds of British Columbia.  He is
a big man, a natural-born fighter.  To prove this he inflicted a black eye and a split lip
on Paul Lorimer, a broken nose and sundry bruises on James L. Brooks.  Also Allen T. Bray and
Edward Gurney Parkinson suffered certain contusions in the mêlèe.  The fracas occurred in the
office of the Free Gold Mining Company, 1546 Broad Street, at three-thirty this afternoon.
While hammering the brokers a police officer arrived on the scene and Wagstaff was duly escorted
to the city bastile.  Prior to the general encounter in the Broad Street office Wagstaff walked
into the Stock Exchange, and made statements about the Free Gold Mining Company which set all
the brokers by the ears.  Lorimer was on the floor, and received his discolored optic there.

Lorimer is a partner in the brokerage firm of Bray, Parkinson & Co., and is president of the
Free Gold Mining Company.  Brooks is manager of the Acme Advertisers, and secretary of Free
Gold.  Bray and Parkinson are stockholders, and Wagstaff is a stockholder and also manager
of the Free Gold properties in B. C.  All are well known about town.

A reporter was present when Wagstaff walked on the floor of the Stock Exchange.  He strode
up to the post where Lorimer was transacting business.

"I serve notice on you right now," he said loudly and angrily, "that if you sell another dollar's
worth of Free Gold stock, I'll put you out of business."

Lorimer appeared to lose his temper.  Some word was passed which further incensed Wagstaff.
He smote the broker and the broker smote the floor.  Wagstaff's punch would do credit to a
champion pugilist, from the execution it wrought.  He immediately left the Stock Exchange,
and not long afterward Broad Street was electrified by sounds of combat in the Free Gold office.
It is conceded that Wagstaff had the situation and his three opponents well in hand when the
cop arrived.

None of the men concerned would discuss the matter.  From the remarks dropped by Wagstaff,
however, it appears that the policy of marketing Free Gold stock was inaugurated without his
knowledge or consent.

Be that as it may, all sorts of rumors are in circulation, and Free Gold stock, which has been
sold during the past week as high as a dollar forty, found few takers at par when Change closed.
There has been a considerable speculative movement in the stock, and the speculators are beginning
to wonder if there is a screw loose in the company affairs.

Wagstaff's case will come up to-morrow forenoon.  A charge of disturbing the peace was placed
against him.  He gave a cash bond and was at once released.  When the hearing comes some of
the parties to the affair may perchance divulge what lay at the bottom of the row.

Any fine within the power of the court to impose is a mere bagatelle, compared to the distinction
of scientifically man-handling four of society's finest in one afternoon.  As one bystander
remarked in the classic phraseology of the street:

"Wagstaff's a bear!"

The brokers concerned might consider this to have a double meaning.

Hazel dropped the paper, mortified and wrathful.  The city jail seemed the very Pit itself
to her.  And the lurid publicity, the lifted eyebrows of her friends, maddened her in prospect.
Plain street brawling, such as one might expect from a cabman or a taxi mahout, not from a
man like her husband.  She involuntarily assigned the blame to him.  Not for the cause--the
cause was of no importance whatever to her--but for the act itself.  Their best friends!  She
could hardly realize it.  Jimmie Brooks, jovial Jimmie, with a broken nose and sundry bruises!
And Paul Lorimer, distinguished Paul, who had the courtly bearing which was the despair of
his fellows, and the manner of a dozen generations of culture wherewith to charm the women
of his acquaintance.  He with a black eye and a split lip!  So the paper stated.  It was vulgar.
Brutal!  The act of a cave man.

She was on the verge of tears.

And just at that moment the door opened, and in walked Bill.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE NOTE DISCORDANT

Bill had divested himself of the scowl.  He smiled as a man who has solved some knotty problem
to his entire satisfaction.  Moreover, he bore no mark of conflict, none of the conventional
scars of a rough-and-tumble fight.  His clothing was in perfect order, his tie and collar properly
arranged, as a gentleman's tie and collar should be. For a moment Hazel found herself believing
the Herald story a pure canard.  But as he walked across the room her searching gaze discovered
that the knuckles of both his hands were bruised and bloody, the skin broken.  She picked up
the paper.

"Is this true?" she asked tremulously, pointing to the offending headlines.

Bill frowned.

"Substantially correct," he answered coolly.

"Bill, how could you?" she cried.  "It's simply disgraceful.  Brawling in public like any saloon
loafer, and getting in jail and all.  Haven't you any consideration for me--any pride?"

His eyes narrowed with an angry glint.

"Yes," he said deliberately.  "I have.  Pride in my word as a man.  A sort of pride that won't
allow any bunch of lily-fingered crooks to make me a party to any dirty deal.  I don't propose
to get the worst of it in that way.  I won't allow myself to be tarred with their stick."

"But they're not trying to give you the worst of it," she burst out. Visions of utter humiliation
arose to confront and madden her.  "You've insulted and abused our best friends--to say nothing
of giving us all the benefit of newspaper scandal.  We'll be notorious!"

"Best friends?  God save the mark!" he snorted contemptuously.  "Our best friends, as you please
to call them, are crooks, thieves, and liars.  They're rotten.  They stink with their moral
rottenness.  And they have the gall to call it good business."

"Just because their business methods don't agree with your peculiar ideas is no reason why
you should call names," she flared.  "Mr. Brooks called just after you left at noon.  He told
me something about this, and assured me that you would find yourself mistaken if you'd only
take pains to think it over.  I don't believe such men as they are would stoop to anything
crooked.  Even if the opportunity offered, they have too much at stake in this community. 
They couldn't afford to be crooked."

"So Brooks came around to talk it over with you, eh?" Bill sneered. "Told you it was all on
the square, did he?  Explained it all very plausibly, I suppose.  Probably suggested that you
try smoothing me down, too.  It would be like 'em."

"He did explain about this stock-selling business," Hazel replied defensively.  "And I can't
see why you find it necessary to make a fuss.  I don't see where the cheating and crookedness
comes in. Everybody who buys stock gets their money's worth, don't they?  But I don't care
anything about your old mining deal.  It's this fighting and quarreling with people who are
not used to that sort of brute action--and the horrid things they'll say and think about us."

"About you, you mean--as the wife of such a boor--that's what's rubbing you raw," Bill flung
out passionately.  "You're acquiring the class psychology good and fast.  Did you ever think
of anybody but yourself? Have I ever betrayed symptoms of idiocy?  Do you think it natural
or even likely for me to raise the devil in a business affair like this out of sheer malice?
Don't I generally have a logical basis for any position I take?  Yet you don't wait or ask
for any explanation from me.  You stand instinctively with the crowd that has swept you off
your feet in the last six months.  You take another man's word that it's all right and I'm
all wrong, without waiting to hear my side of it.  And the petty-larceny incident of my knocking
down two or three men and being under arrest as much as thirty minutes looms up before you
as the utter depths of disgrace.  Disgrace to you!  It's all you--you!  How do you suppose
it strikes me to have my wife take sides against me on snap judgment like that?  It shows a
heap of faith and trust and loyalty, doesn't it?  Oh, it makes me real proud and glad of my
mate.  It does.  By thunder, if Granville had ever treated me as it tried to treat you one
time, according to your own account, I'd wipe my feet on them at every opportunity."

"If you'd explain," Hazel began hesitatingly.  She was thoroughly startled at the smoldering
wrath that flared out in this speech of his. She bitterly resented being talked to in that
fashion.  It was unjust. Particularly that last fling.  And she was not taking sides.  She
refused to admit that--even though she had a disturbing consciousness that her attitude could
scarcely be construed otherwise.

"I'll explain nothing," Bill flashed stormily.  "Not at this stage of the game.  I'm through
explaining.  I'm going to act.  I refuse to be raked over the coals like a naughty child, and
then asked to tell why I did it.  I'm right, and when I know I'm right I'll go the limit. 
I'm going to take the kinks out of this Free Gold deal inside of forty-eight hours.  Then I'm
through with Granville.  Hereafter I intend to fight shy of a breed of dogs who lose every
sense of square dealing when there is a bunch of money in sight.  I shall be ready to leave
here within a week.  And I want you to be ready, too."

"I won't," she cried, on the verge of hysterics.  "I won't go back to that cursed silence and
loneliness.  You made this trouble here, not I. I won't go back to Pine River, or the Klappan.
I won't, I tell you!"

Bill stared at her moodily for a second.

"Just as you please," he said quietly.

He walked into the spare bedroom.  Hazel heard the door close gently behind him, heard the
soft click of a well-oiled lock.  Then she slumped, gasping, in the wide-armed chair by the
window, and the hot tears came in a blinding flood.

CHAPTER XXX

THE AFTERMATH

They exchanged only bare civilities at the breakfast table, and Bill at once went downtown.
When he was gone, Hazel fidgeted uneasily about the rooms.  She had only a vague idea of legal
processes, having never seen the inside of a courtroom.  She wondered what penalty would be
inflicted on Bill, whether he would be fined or sent to prison.  Surely it was a dreadful thing
to batter men like Brooks and Lorimer and Parkinson.  They might even make it appear that Bill
had tried to murder them.  Her imagination magnified and distorted the incident out of all
proportion.

And brooding over these things, she decided to go and talk it over with Kitty Brooks.  Kitty
would not blame her for these horrid man troubles.

But she was mistaken there.  Kitty was all up in arms.  She was doubly injured.  Her husband
had suffered insult and brutal injury.  Moreover, he was threatened with financial loss.  Perhaps
that threatened wound in the pocketbook loomed larger than the physical hurt.  At any rate,
she vented some of her spleen on Hazel.

"Your husband started this mining thing," she declared heatedly. "Jimmie says that if he persists
in trying to turn things upside down it will mean a loss of thousands.  And we haven't any
money to lose--I'm sure Jimmie has worked hard for what he's got.  I'm simply sick over it.
It's bad enough to have one's husband brought home looking as if he'd been slugged by footpads,
and to have the papers go on about it so.  But to have a big loss inflicted on us just when
we were really beginning to get ahead, is too much.  I wish you'd never introduced your miner
to us."

That speech, of course, obliterated friendship on the spot, as far as Hazel was concerned.
Even though she was quite prepared to have Bill blamed for the trouble, did in fact so blame
him herself, she could not stomach Kitty's language nor attitude.  But the humiliation of the
interview she chalked up against Bill.  She went home with a red spot glowing on either cheekbone.
A rather incoherent telephone conversation with Mrs. Allen T. Bray, in which that worthy matron
declared her husband prostrated from his injuries, and in the same breath intimated that Mr.
Wagstaff would be compelled to make ample reparation for his ruffianly act, did not tend to
soothe her.

Bill failed to appear at luncheon.  During the afternoon an uncommon number other acquaintances
dropped in.  In the tactful manner of their kind they buzzed with the one absorbing topic.
Some were vastly amused.  Some were sympathetic.  One and all they were consumed with curiosity
for detailed inside information on the Free Gold squabble. One note rang consistently in their
gossipy song: The Free Gold Company was going to lose a pot of money in some manner, as a consequence
of the affair.  Mr. Wagstaff had put some surprising sort of spoke in the company's wheel.
They had that from their husbands who trafficked on Broad Street.  By what power he had accomplished
this remained a mystery to the ladies.  Singly and collectively they drove Hazel to the verge
of distraction.  When the house was at last clear of them she could have wept.  Through no
fault of her own she had given Granville another choice morsel to roll under its gossipy tongue.

So that when six o'clock brought Bill home, she was coldly disapproving of him and his affairs
in their entirety, and at no pains to hide her feelings.  He followed her into the living-room
when the uncomfortable meal--uncomfortable by reason of the surcharged atmosphere--was at an end.

"Let's get down to bed rock, Hazel," he said gently.  "Doesn't it seem rather foolish to let
a bundle of outside troubles set up so much friction between us two?  I don't want to stir
anything up; I don't want to quarrel.  But I can't stand this coldness and reproach from you.
It's unjust, for one thing.  And it's so unwise--if we value our happiness as a thing worth
making some effort to save."

"I don't care to discuss it at all," she flared up.  "I've heard nothing else all day but this
miserable mining business and your ruffianly method of settling a dispute.  I'd rather not
talk about it."

"But we must talk about it," he persisted patiently.  "I've got to show you how the thing stands,
so that you can see for yourself where your misunderstanding comes in.  You can't get to the
bottom of anything without more or less talk."

"Talk to yourself, then," she retorted ungraciously.  And with that she ran out of the room.

But she had forgotten or underestimated the catlike quickness of her man.  He caught her in
the doorway, and the grip of his fingers on her arm brought a cry of pain.

"Forgive me.  I didn't mean to hurt," he said contritely.  "Be a good girl, Hazel, and let's
get our feet on earth again.  Sit down and put your arm around my neck and be my pal, like
you used to be.  We've got no business nursing these hard feelings.  It's folly.  I haven't
committed any crime.  I've only stood for a square deal.  Come on; bury the hatchet, little
person."

"Let me go," she sobbed, struggling to be free.  "I h-hate you!"

"Please, little person.  I can't eat humble pie more than once or twice."

"Let me go," she panted.  "I don't want you to touch me."

"Listen to me," he said sternly.  "I've stood about all of your nonsense I'm able to stand.
I've had to fight a pack of business wolves to keep them from picking my carcass, and, what's
more important to me, to keep them from handing a raw deal to five men who wallowed through
snow and frost and all kinds of hardship to make these sharks a fortune.  I've got down to
their level and fought them with their own weapons--and the thing is settled.  I said last
night I'd be through here inside a week.  I'm through now--through here.  I have business in
the Klappan; to complete this thing I've set my hand to.  Then I'm going to the ranch and try
to get the bad taste out of my mouth.  I'm going to-morrow.  I've no desire or intention to
coerce you.  You're my wife, and your place is with me, if you care anything about me.  And
I want you.  You know that, don't you?  I wouldn't be begging you like this if I didn't.  I
haven't changed, nor had my eyes dazzled by any false gods.  But it's up to you.  I don't bluff.
I'm going, and if I have to go without you I won't come back.  Think it over, and just ask
yourself honestly if it's worth while."

He drew her up close to him and kissed her on one anger-flushed cheek, and then, as he had
done the night before, walked straight away to the bedroom and closed the door behind him.

Hazel slept little that night.  A horrid weight seemed to rest suffocatingly upon her.  More
than once she had an impulse to creep in there where Bill lay and forget it all in the sweep
of that strong arm. But she choked back the impulse angrily.  She would not forgive him. He
had made her suffer.  For his high-handedness she would make him suffer in kind.  At least,
she would not crawl to him begging forgiveness.

When sunrise laid a yellow beam, all full of dancing motes, across her bed, she heard Bill
stir, heard him moving about the apartment with restless steps.  After a time she also heard
the unmistakable sound of a trunk lid thrown back, and the movements of him as he gathered
his clothes--so she surmised.  But she did not rise till the maid rapped on her door with the
eight-o'clock salutation:

"Breakfast, ma'am."

They made a pretense of eating.  Hazel sought a chair in the living-room.  A book lay open
in her lap.  But the print ran into blurred lines.  She could not follow the sense of the words.
An incessant turmoil of thought harassed her.  Bill passed through the room once or twice.
Determinedly she ignored him.  The final snap of the lock on his trunk came to her at last,
the bumping sounds of its passage to the hall.  Then a burly expressman shouldered it into
his wagon and drove away.

A few minutes after that Bill came in and took a seat facing her.

"What are you going to do, Hazel?" he asked soberly.

"Nothing," she curtly replied.

"Are you going to sit down and fold your hands and let our air castles come tumbling about
our ears, without making the least effort to prevent?" he continued gently.  "Seems to me that's
not like you at all.  I never thought you were a quitter."

"I'm not a quitter," she flung back resentfully.  "I refuse to be browbeaten, that's all. 
There appears to be only one choice--to follow you like a lamb.  And I'm not lamblike.  I'd
say that you are the quitter.  You have stirred up all this trouble here between us.  Now you're
running away from it.  That's how it looks to me.  Go on!  I can get along."

"I dare say you can," he commented wearily.  "Most of us can muddle along somehow, no matter
what happens.  But it seems a pity, little person.  We had all the chance in the world.  You've
developed an abnormal streak lately.  If you'd just break away and come back with me.  You
don't know what good medicine those old woods are.  Won't you try it a while?"

"I am not by nature fitted to lead the hermit existence," she returned sarcastically.

And even while her lips were uttering these various unworthy little bitternesses she inwardly
wondered at her own words.  It was not what she would have said, not at all what she was half
minded to say.  But a devil of perverseness spurred her.  She was full of protest against everything.

"I wish we'd had a baby," Bill murmured softly.  "You'd be different. You'd have something
to live for besides this frothy, neurotic existence that has poisoned you against the good,
clean, healthy way of life.  I wish we'd had a kiddie.  We'd have a fighting chance for happiness
now; something to keep us sane, something outside of our own ego to influence us."

"Thank God there isn't one!" she muttered.

"Ah, well," Bill sighed, "I guess there is no use.  I guess we can't get together on anything.
There doesn't seem to be any give-and-take between us any longer."

He rose and walked to the door.  With his hand on the knob, he turned.

"I have fixed things at the bank for you," he said abruptly.

Then he walked out, without waiting for an answer.

She heard the soft whir of the elevator.  A minute later she saw him on the sidewalk.  He had
an overcoat on his arm, a suit case in his hand. She saw him lift a finger to halt a passing car.

It seemed incredible that he should go like that.  Surely he would come back at noon or at
dinner time.  She had always felt that under his gentleness there was iron.  But deep in her
heart she had never believed him so implacable of purpose where she was concerned.

She waited wearily, stirring with nervous restlessness from room to room.

Luncheon passed.  The afternoon dragged by to a close.  Dusk fell.  And when the night wrapped
Granville in its velvet mantle, and the street lights blinked away in shining rows, she cowered,
sobbing, in the big chair by the window.

He was gone.

Gone, without even saying good-by!

CHAPTER XXXI

A LETTER FROM BILL

All through the long night she lay awake, struggling with the incredible fact that Bill had
left her; trying to absolve herself from blame; flaring up in anger at his unyielding attitude,
even while she was sorely conscious that she herself had been stubbornly unyielding. If he
had truly loved her, she reiterated, he would never have made it an issue between them.  But
that was like a man--to insist on his own desires being made paramount; to blunder on headlong,
no matter what antagonisms he aroused.  And he was completely in the wrong, she reasserted.

She recapitulated it all.  Through the winter he had consistently withdrawn into his shell.
For her friends and for most of her pleasures he had at best exhibited only tolerance.  And
he had ended by outraging both them and her, and on top of that demanded that she turn her
back at twenty-four hours' notice, on Granville and all its associations and follow him into
a wilderness that she dreaded.  She had full right to her resentment.  As his partner in the
chancy enterprise of marriage were not her feelings and desires entitled to equal consideration?
He had assumed the role of dictator.  And she had revolted.  That was all.  She was justified.

Eventually she slept.  At ten o'clock, heavy-eyed, suffering an intolerable headache, she rose
and dressed.

Beside her plate lay a thick letter addressed in Bill's handwriting. She drank her coffee and
went back to the bedroom before she opened the envelope.  By the postmark she saw that it had
been mailed on a train.

DEAR GIRL: I have caught my breath, so to speak, but I doubt if ever a more forlorn cuss listened
to the interminable clicking of car wheels. I am tempted at each station to turn back and try
again.  It seems so unreal, this parting in hot anger, so miserably unnecessary.  But when
I stop to sum it up again, I see no use in another appeal.  I could come back--yes.  Only the
certain knowledge that giving in like that would send us spinning once more in a vicious circle
prevents me.  I didn't believe it possible that we could get so far apart.  Nor that a succession
of little things could cut so weighty a figure in our lives. And perhaps you are very sore
and resentful at me this morning for being so precipitate.

I couldn't help it, Hazel.  It seemed the only way.  It seems so yet to me.  There was nothing
more to keep me in Granville--everything to make me hurry away.  If I had weakened and temporized
with you it would only mean the deferring of just what has happened.  When you declared yourself
flatly and repeatedly it seemed hopeless to argue further.  I am a poor pleader, perhaps; and
I do not believe in compulsion between us.  Whatever you do you must do of your own volition,
without pressure from me.  We couldn't be happy otherwise.  If I compelled you to follow me
against your desire we should only drag misery in our train.

I couldn't even say good-by.  I didn't want it to be good-by.  I didn't know if I could stick
to my determination to go unless I went as I did. And my reason told me that if there must
be a break it would better come now than after long-drawn-out bickerings and bitterness.  If
we are so diametrically opposed where we thought we stood together we have made a mistake that
no amount of adjusting, nothing but separate roads, will rectify.  Myself I refuse to believe
that we have made such a mistake.  I don't think that honestly and deliberately you prefer
an exotic, useless, purposeless, parasitic existence to the normal, wholesome life we happily
planned.  But you are obsessed, intoxicated--I can't put it any better--and nothing but a shock
will sober you.  If I'm wrong, if love and Bill's companionship can't lure you away from these
other things--why, I suppose you will consider it an ended chapter.  In that case you will
not suffer.  The situation as it stands will be a relief to you.  If, on the other hand, it's
merely a stubborn streak, that won't let you admit that you've carried your proud little head
on an over-stiff neck, do you think it's worth the price?  I don't.  I'm not scolding, little
person.  I'm sick and sore at the pass we've come to.  No damn-fool pride can close my eyes
to the fact or keep me from admitting freely that I love you just as much and want you as longingly
as I did the day I put you aboard the Stanley D. at Bella Coola.  I thought you were stepping
gladly out of my life then.  And I let you go freely and without anything but a dumb protest
against fate, because it was your wish.  I can step out of your life again--if it is your wish.
But I can't imprison myself in your cities. I can't pretend, even for your sake, to play the
game they call business.  I'm neither an idler nor can I become a legalized buccaneer. I have
nothing but contempt for those who are.  Mind you, this is not so sweeping a statement as it
sounds.  No one has a keener appreciation of what civilization means than I.  Out of it has
arisen culture and knowledge, much of what should make the world a better place for us all.
But somehow this doesn't apply to the mass, and particularly not to the circles we invaded
in Granville.  With here and there a solitary exception that class is hopeless in its smug
self-satisfaction--its narrowness of outlook, and unblushing exploitation of the less fortunate,
repels me.

And to dabble my hands in their muck, to settle down and live my life according to their bourgeois
standards, to have grossness of soft flesh replace able sinews, to submerge mentality in favor
of a specious craftiness of mind which passes in the "city" for brains--well, I'm on the road.
And, oh, girl, girl, I wish you were with me.

I must explain this mining deal--that phase of it which sent me on the rampage in Granville.
I should have done so before, should have insisted on making it clear to you.  But a fellow
doesn't always do the proper thing at the proper time.  All too frequently we are dominated
by our emotions rather than by our judgment.  It was so with me.  The other side had been presented
to you rather cleverly at the right time. And your ready acceptance of it angered me beyond
bounds.  You were prejudiced.  It stirred me to a perfect fury to think you couldn't be absolutely
loyal to your pal.  When you took that position I simply couldn't attempt explanations.  Do
you think I'd ever have taken the other fellow's side against you, right or wrong?

Anyway, here it is: You got the essentials, up to a certain point, from Brooks.  But he didn't
tell it all--his kind never does, not by a long shot.  They, the four of them, it seems, held
a meeting as soon as I shipped out that gold and put through that stock-selling scheme.  That
was legitimate.  I couldn't restrain them from that, being a hopeless minority of one.  Their
chief object, however, was to let two or three friends in on the ground floor of a good thing;
also, they wanted each a good bundle of that stock while it was cheap--figuring that with the
prospects I had opened up it would sell high.  So they had it on the market, and in addition
had everything framed up to reorganize with a capitalization of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars.  This all cut and dried before I got there.  Now, as it originally stood, the five
of us would each have made a small fortune on these Klappan claims. They're good.  But with
a quarter of a million in outstanding stock--well, it would be all right for the fellow with
a big block. But you can see where I would get off with a five-thousand-dollar interest.  To
be sure, a certain proportion of the money derived from the sale of this stock should be mine.
But it goes into the treasury, and they had it arranged to keep it in the treasury, as a fund
for operations, with them doing the operating.  They had already indicated their bent by voting
an annual stipend of ten thousand and six thousand dollars to Lorimer and Brooks as president
and secretary respectively. Me, they proposed to quiet with a manager's wage of a mere five
thousand a year--after I got on the ground and began to get my back up.

Free Gold would have been a splendid Stock Exchange possibility.  They had it all doped out
how they could make sundry clean-ups irrespective of the mine's actual product.  That was the
first thing that made me dubious.  They were stock-market gamblers, manipulators pure and simple.
But I might have let it go at that, seeing it was their game and not one that I or anybody
I cared about would get fleeced at.  I didn't approve of it, you understand.  It was their game.

But they capped the climax with what I must cold-bloodedly characterize as the baldest attempt
at a dirty fraud I ever encountered.  And they had the gall to try and make me a party to it.
To make this clear you must understand that I, on behalf of the company and acting as the company's
agent, grubstaked Whitey Lewis and four others to go in and stake those claims.  I was empowered
to arrange with these five men that if the claims made a decent showing each should receive
five thousand dollars in stock for assigning their claims to the company, and should have employment
at top wages while the claims were operated.

They surely earned it.  You know what the North is in the dead of winter.  They bucked their
way through a hell of frost and snow and staked the claims.  If ever men were entitled to what
was due them, they were.  And not one of them stuttered over his bargain, even though they
were taking out weekly as much gold as they were to get for their full share.  They'd given
their word, and they were white men.  They took me for a white man also.  They took my word
that they would get what was coming to them, and gave me in the company's name clear title
to every claim.  I put those titles on record in Hazleton, and came home.

Lorimer and Brooks deliberately proposed to withhold that stock, to defraud these men, to steal--oh,
I can't find words strong enough. They wanted to let the matter stand; wanted me to let it
be adjusted later; anything to serve as an excuse for delay.  Brooks said to me, with a grin;
"The property's in the company's name--let the roughnecks sweat a while.  They've got no come-back,
anyhow."

That was when I smashed him.  Do you blame me?  I'd taken over those fellows' claims in good
faith.  Could I go back there and face those men and say: "Boys, the company's got your claims,
and they won't pay for them."  Do you think for a minute I'd let a bunch of lily-fingered crooks
put anything like that over on simple, square-dealing fellows who were too honest to protect
their own interests from sharp practice? A quartet of soft-bodied mongrels who sat in upholstered
office chairs while these others wallowed through six feet of snow for three weeks, living
on bacon and beans, to grab a pot of gold for them!  It makes my fist double up when I think
about it.

And I wouldn't be put off or placated by a chance to fatten my own bank roll.  I didn't care
if I broke the Free Gold Mining Company and myself likewise.  A dollar doesn't terrify nor
yet fascinate me--I hope it never will.  And while, perhaps, it was not what they would call
good form for me to lose my temper and go at them with my fists, I was fighting mad when I
thoroughly sensed their dirty project.  Anyway, it helped bring them to time.  When you take
a man of that type and cuff him around with your two hands he's apt to listen serious to what
you say.  And they listened when I told them in dead earnest next day that Whitey Lewis and
his partners must have what was due them, or I'd wreck the bunch of them if it took ten years
and every dollar I had to do it. And I could have put them on the tramp, too--they'd already
dipped their fingers in where they couldn't stand litigation.  I'm sure of that--or they would
never have come through; which they did.

But I'm sorry I ever got mixed up with them.  I'm going to sell my stock and advise Lewis and
the others to do the same while we can get full value for it.  Lorimer and that bunch will
manipulate the outfit to death, no matter how the mine produces.  They'll have a quarter of
a million to work on pretty soon, and they'll work it hard.  They're shysters--but it's after
all only a practical demonstration of the ethics of the type--"Do everybody you can--if you
can do 'em so there's no come-back."

That's all of that.  I don't care two whoops about the money.  There is still gold in the Klappan
Range and other corners of the North, whenever I need it.  But it nauseated me.  I can't stand
that cutthroat game.  And Granville, like most other cities of its kind, lives by and for that
sort of thing.  The pressure of modern life makes it inevitable.  Anyway, a town is no place
for me.  I can stomach it about so long, and no longer.  It's too cramped, too girded about
with petty-larceny conventions.  If once you slip and get down, every one walks on you.  Everything's
restricted, priced, tinkered with.  There is no real freedom of body or spirit.  I wouldn't
trade a comfy log cabin in the woods with a big fireplace and a shelf of books for the finest
home on Maple Drive--not if I had to stay there and stifle in the dust and smoke and smells.
That would be a sordid and impoverished existence.  I cannot live by the dog-eat-dog code that
seems to prevail wherever folk get jammed together in an unwieldy social mass.

I have said the like to you before.  By nature and training I'm unfitted to live in these crowded
places.  I love you, little person, I don't think you realize how much, but I can't make you
happy by making myself utterly miserable.  That would only produce the inevitable reaction.
But I still think you are essentially enough like me to meet me on common ground.  You loved
me and you found contentment and joy at our little cabin once.  Don't you think it might be
waiting there again?

If you really care, if I and the old North still mean anything to you, a few days or weeks,
or even months of separation won't matter.  An affection that can't survive six months is too
fragile to go through life on.  I don't ask you to jump the next train and follow me.  I don't
ask you to wire me, "Come back, Bill."  Though I would come quick enough if you called me.
I merely want you to think it over soberly and let your heart decide.  You know where I stand,
don't you, Hazel, dear?  I haven't changed--not a bit--I'm the same old Bill.  But I'd rather
hit the trail alone than with an unwilling partner.  Don't flounder about in any quicksand
of duty.  There is no "I ought to" between us.

So it is up to you once more, little person.  If my way is not to be your way I will abide
by your decision without whining.  And whenever you want to reach me, a message to Felix Courvoiseur,
Fort George, will eventually find me.  I'll fix it that way.

I don't know what I'll do after I make that Klappan trip.  I'm too restless to make plans.
What's the use of planning when there's nobody but myself to plan for?

So long, little person.  I like you a heap, for all your cantankerous ways.

BILL.

She laid aside the letter, with a lump in her throat.  For a brief instant she was minded to
telegraph the word that would bring him hurrying back.  But--some of the truths he had set
down in cold black and white cut her deep.  Of a surety she had drawn her weapon on the wrong
side in the mining trouble.  Over-hasty?--yes.  And shamefully disloyal.  Perhaps there was
something in it, after all; that is to say, it might be they had made a mistake.  She saw plainly
enough that unless she could get back some of the old enthusiasm for that wilderness life,
unless the fascination of magnificent distances, of silent, breathless forests, of contented,
quiet days on trail and stream, could lay fast hold of her again, they would only defer the
day of reckoning, as Bill had said.

And she was not prepared to go that far.  She still harbored a smoldering grudge against him
for his volcanic outburst in Granville, and too precipitate departure.  He had given her no
time to think, to make a choice.  The flesh-pots still seemed wholly desirable--or, rather,
she shrank from the alternative.  When she visualized the North it uprose always in its most
threatening presentment, indescribably lonely, the playground of ruthless, elemental forces,
terrifying in its vast emptinesses.  It appalled her in retrospect, loomed unutterably desolate
in contrast to her present surroundings.

No, she would not attempt to call him back.  She doubted if he would come.  And she would not
go--not yet.  She must have time to think.

One thing pricked her sorely.  She could not reconcile the roguery of Brooks and Lorimer with
the men as she knew them.  Not that she doubted Bill's word.  But there must be a mistake somewhere.
Ruthless competition in business she knew and understood.  Only the fit survived--just as in
her husband's chosen field only the peculiarly fit could hope to survive.  But she rather resented
the idea that pleasant, well-bred people could be guilty of coarse, forthright fraud.  Surely not!

Altogether, as the first impression of Bill's letter grew less vivid to her she considered
her grievances more.  And she was minded to act as she had set out to do--to live her life
as seemed best to her, rather than pocket her pride and rejoin Bill.  The feminine instinct
to compel the man to capitulate asserted itself more and more strongly.

Wherefore, she dressed carefully and prepared to meet a luncheon engagement which she recalled
as being down for that day.  No matter that her head ached woefully.  Thought maddened her.
She required distraction, craved change.  The chatter over the tea-cups, the cheerful nonsense
of that pleasure-seeking crowd might be a tonic. Anything was better than to sit at home and brood.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE SPUR.

A month passed.

During that thirty-day period she received a brief note from Bill. Just a few lines to say:

Hit the ranch yesterday, little person.  Looks good to me.  Have had Lauer do some work on
it this summer.  Went fishing last night about sundown.  Trout were rising fine.  Nailed a
two-pounder.  He jumped a foot clear of the water after my fly, and gave me a hot time for
about ten minutes.  Woke up this morning at daylight and found a buck deer with two lady friends
standing in the middle of the clearing.  I loafed a fews days in Fort George, sort of thinking
I might hear from you.  Am sending this out by Jake.  Will start for the Klappan about day
after to-morrow.

She had not answered his first letter.  She had tried to.  But somehow when she tried to set
pen to paper the right words would not come.  She lacked his facility of expression.  There
was so much she wanted to say, so little she seemed able to say.  As the days passed she felt
less sure of her ground, less sure that she had not sacrificed something precious to a vagary
of self, an obsession of her own ego.

Many things took on a different complexion now that she stood alone. No concrete evidence of
change stood forth preëminent.  It was largely subjective, atmospheric, intangible impressions.

Always with a heart sinking she came back to the empty apartment, knowing that it would be
empty.  During Bill's transient absence of the spring she had missed him scarcely at all. 
She could not say that now.

And slowly but surely she began to view all her activities of her circle with a critical eye.
She was brought to this partly in self-defense.  Certain of her friends had become tentative
enemies. Kitty Brooks and the Bray womenfolk, who were a numerous and influential tribe, not
only turned silent faces when they met, but they made war on her in the peculiar fashion of
women.  A word here, a suggestive phrase there, a shrug of the shoulders.  It all bore fruit.
Other friends conveyed the avid gossip.  Hazel smiled and ignored it. But in her own rooms
she raged unavailingly.

Her husband had left her.  There was a man in the case.  They had lost everything.  The first
count was sufficiently maddening because it was a half truth.  And any of it was irritating--even
if few believed--since it made a choice morsel to digest in gossipy corners, and brought sundry
curious stares on Hazel at certain times.  Also Mr. Wagstaff had caused the stockholders of
Free Gold a heavy loss--which was only offset by the fact that the Free Gold properties were
producing richly.  None of this was even openly flung at her.  She gathered it piecemeal. 
And it galled her.  She could not openly defend either Bill or herself against the shadowy
scandalmongers.

Slowly it dawned upon her, with a bitterness born of her former experience with Granville,
that she had lost something of the standing that certain circles had accorded her as the wife
of a successful mining man.  It made her ponder.  Was Bill so far wrong, after all, in his
estimate of them?  It was a disheartening conclusion.  She had come of a family that stood
well in Granville; she had grown up there; if life-time friends blew hot and cold like that,
was the game worth playing?

In so far as she could she gave the lie to some of the petty gossip. Whereas at first she had
looked dubiously on spending Bill's money to maintain the standard of living they had set up,
she now welcomed that deposit of five thousand dollars as a means to demonstrate that even
in his absence he stood behind her financially--which she began to perceive counted more than
anything else.  So long as she could dress in the best, while she could ride where others walked,
so long as she betrayed no limitation of resources, the doors stood wide.  Not what you are,
but what you've got--she remembered Bill saying that was their holiest creed.

It repelled her.  And sometimes she was tempted to sit down and pour it all out in a letter
to him.  But she could not quite bring herself to the point.  Always behind Bill loomed the
vast and dreary Northland, and she shrank from that.

On top of this, she began to suffer a queer upset of her physical condition.  All her life
she had been splendidly healthy; her body a perfect-working machine, afflicted with no weaknesses.
Now odd spasmodic pains recurred without rhyme or reason in her head, her back, her limbs,
striking her with sudden poignancy, disappearing as suddenly.

She was stretched on the lounge one afternoon wrestling nervously with a particularly acute
attack, when Vesta Lorimer was ushered in.

"You're almost a stranger," Hazel remarked, after the first greetings. "Your outing must have
been pleasant, to hold you so long."

"It would have held me longer," Vesta returned, "if I didn't have to be in touch with my market.
I could live quite happily on my island eight months in the year.  But one can't get people
to come several hundred miles to a sitting.  And I feel inclined to acquire a living income
while my vogue lasts."

"You're rather a wilderness lover, aren't you?" Hazel commented.  "I don't think you'd love
it as dearly if you were buried alive in it."

"That would all depend on the circumstances," Vesta replied.  "One escapes many disheartening
things in a country that is still comparatively primitive.  The continual grind of keeping
one's end up in town gets terribly wearisome.  I'm always glad to go to the woods, and sorry
when I have to leave.  But I suppose it's largely in one's point of view."

They chatted of sundry matters for a few minutes.

"By the way, is there any truth in the statement that this Free Gold row has created trouble
between you and your husband?" Vesta asked abruptly.  "I dare say it's quite an impertinent
question, and you'd be well within your rights to tell me it's none of my business.  But I
should like to confound some of these petty tattlers.  I haven't been home forty-eight hours;
yet I've heard tongues wagging.  I hope there's nothing in it.  I warned Mr. Wagstaff against
Paul."

"Warned him?  Why?"  Hazel neglected the question entirely.  The bluntness of it took her by
surprise.  Frank speech was not a characteristic of Vesta Lorimer's set.

The girl shrugged her shoulders.

"He is my brother, but that doesn't veil my eyes," she said coolly. "Paul is too crooked to
lie straight in bed.  I'm glad Mr. Wagstaff brought the lot of them up with a round turn--which
he seems to have done.  If he had used a club instead of his fists it would have been only
their deserts.  I suppose the fuss quite upset you?"

"It did," Hazel admitted grudgingly.  "It did more than upset me."

"I thought as much," Vesta said slowly.  "It made you inflict an undeserved hurt on a man who
should have had better treatment at your hands; not only because he loves you, but because
he is one of the few men who deserve the best that you or any woman can give."

Hazel straightened up angrily.

"Where do you get your astonishing information, pray?" she asked hotly. "And where do you get
your authority to say such things to me?"

Vesta tucked back a vagrant strand of her tawny hair.  Her blue eyes snapped, and a red spot
glowed on each smooth, fair cheek.

"I don't get it; I'm taking it," she flung back.  "I have eyes and ears, and I have used them
for months.  Since you inquire, I happened to be going over the Lake Division on the same train
that carried your husband back to the North.  You can't knife a man without him bearing the
marks of it; and I learned in part why he was going back alone. The rest I guessed, by putting
two and two together.  You're a silly, selfish, shortsighted little fool, if my opinion is
worth having."

"You've said quite enough," Hazel cried.  "If you have any more insults, please get rid of
them elsewhere.  I think you are--"

"Oh, I don't care what you think of me," the girl interrupted recklessly.  "If I did I wouldn't
be here.  I'd hide behind the conventional rules of the game and let you blunder along.  But
I can't. I'm not gifted with your blind egotism.  Whatever you are, that Bill of yours loves
you, and if you care anything for him, you should be with him.  I would, if I were lucky enough
to stand in your shoes.  I'd go with him down into hell itself gladly if he wanted me to!"

"Oh!" Hazel gasped.  "Are you clean mad?"

"Shocked to death, aren't you?" Vesta fleered.  "You can't understand, can you?  I love him--yes.
I'm not ashamed to own it.  I'm no sentimental prude to throw up my hands in horror at a perfectly
natural emotion.  But he is not for me.  I dare say I couldn't give him an added heartbeat
if I tried.  And I have a little too much pride--strange as it may seem to you--to try, so
long as he is chained hand and foot to your chariot.  But you're making him suffer.  And I
care enough to want him to live all his days happily.  He is a man, and there are so few of
them, real men.  If you can make him happy I'd compel you to do so, if I had the power.  You
couldn't understand that kind of a love.  Oh, I could choke you for your stupid disloyalty.
I could do almost anything that would spur you to action.  I can't rid myself of the hopeless,
reckless mood he was in.  There are so few of his kind, the patient, strong, loyal, square-dealing
men, with a woman's tenderness and a lion's courage.  Any woman should be proud and glad to
be his mate, to mother his children.  And you--"

She threw out her hands with a sudden, despairing gesture.  The blue eyes grew misty, and she
hid her face in her palms.  Before that passionate outburst Hazel sat dumbly amazed, staring,
uncertain.  In a second Vesta lifted her head defiantly.

"I had no notion of breaking out like this when I came up," she said quietly.  "I was going
to be very adroit.  I intended to give you a friendly boost along the right road, if I could.
But it has all been bubbling inside me for a long time.  You perhaps think it very unwomanly--but
I don't care much what you think.  My little heartache is incidental, one of the things life
deals us whether we will or not. But if you care in the least for your husband, for God's sake
make some effort, some sacrifice of your own petty little desires, to make his road a little
pleasanter, a little less gray than it must be now. You'll be well repaid--if you are the kind
that must always be paid in full.  Don't be a stiff-necked idiot.  That's all I wanted to say.
Good-by!"

She was at the door when she finished.  The click of the closing catch stirred Hazel to speech
and action.

"Vesta, Vesta!" she cried, and ran out into the corridor.

But Vesta Lorimer neither heeded nor halted.  And Hazel went back to her room, quivering. 
Sometimes the truth is bitter and stirs to wrath. And mingled with other emotions was a dull
pang of jealousy--the first she had ever known.  For Vesta Lorimer was beautiful beyond most
women; and she had but given ample evidence of the bigness of her soul.  With shamed tears
creeping to her eyes, Hazel wondered if she could love even Bill so intensely that she would
drive another woman to his arms that he might win happiness.

But one thing stood out clear above that painful meeting.  She was done fighting against the
blankness that seemed to surround her since Bill went away.  Slowly but steadily it had been
forced upon her that much which she deemed desirable, even necessary, was of little weight
in the balance with him.  Day and night she longed for him, for his cheery voice, the whimsical
good humor of him, his kiss and his smile. Indubitably Vesta Lorimer was right to term her
a stiff-necked, selfish fool.  But if all folk were saturated with the essence of wisdom--well,
there was but one thing to be done.  Silly pride had to go by the board.  If to face gayly
a land she dreaded were the price of easing his heartache--and her own--that price she would
pay, and pay with a grace but lately learned.

She lay down on the lounge again.  The old pains were back.  And as she endured, a sudden startling
thought flashed across her mind.  A possibility?--Yes.  She hurried to dress, wondering why
it had not before occurred to her, and, phoning up a taxi, rolled downtown to the office of
Doctor Hart.  An hour or so later she returned.  A picture of her man stood on the mantel.
She took it down and stared at it with a tremulous smile.

"Oh, Billy-boy, Billy-boy, I wish you knew," she whispered.  "But I was coming, anyway, Bill!"

That evening, stirring about her preparations for the journey, she paused, and wondered why,
for the first time since Bill left, she felt so utterly at peace.

CHAPTER XXXIII

HOME AGAIN

Twelve months works many a change on a changing frontier.  Hazel found this so.  When she came
to plan her route she found the G. T. P. bridging the last gap in a transcontinental system,
its trains westbound already within striking distance of Fort George.  She could board a sleeping
car at Granville and detrain within a hundred miles of the ancient trading post--with a fast
river boat to carry her the remaining distance.

Fort George loomed up a jumbled area of houses and tents, log buildings, frame structures yellow
in their newness, strangers to paint as yet.  On every hand others stood in varying stages
of erection. Folks hurried about the sturdy beginning of a future greatness.  And as she left
the boat and followed a new-laid walk of planks toward a hotel, Jake Lauer stepped out of a
store, squarely into her path.

His round face lit up with a smile of recognition.  And Hazel, fresh from the long and lonesome
journey, was equally glad to set eyes on a familiar, a genuinely friendly face.

"I am pleased to welgome you back to Gott's country, Mrs. Vagstaff," he said.  "Und let me
carry dot suid case alretty."

They walked two blocks to the King's Hotel, where Lauer's family was housed.  He was in for
supplies, he told her, and, of course, his wife and children accompanied him.

"Not dat Gredda iss afraid.  She iss so goot a man as I on der ranch ven I am gone," he explained.
"But for dem it iss a change.  Und I bring by der town a vaigonloat off bodadoes.  By cosh,
dem bodadoes iss sell high."

It flashed into Hazel's mind that here was a Heaven-sent opportunity to reach the cabin without
facing that hundred miles in the company of chance-hired strangers.  But she did not broach
the subject at once. Instead, she asked eagerly of Bill.  Lauer told her that Bill had tarried
a few days at the cabin, and then struck out alone for the mines.  And he had not said when
he would be back.

Mrs. Lauer, unchanged from a year earlier, welcomed her with pleased friendliness.  And Jake
left the two of them and the chubby kiddies in the King's office while he betook himself about
his business.  Hazel haled his wife and the children to her room as soon as one was assigned
to her.  And there, almost before she knew it, she was murmuring brokenly her story into an
ear that listened with sympathy and understanding.  Only a woman can grasp some of a woman's
needs.  Gretta Lauer patted Hazel's shoulder with a motherly hand, and bade her cheer up.

"Home's the place for you, dear," she said smilingly.  "You just come right along with us.
Your man will come quick enough when he gets word.  And we'll take good care of you in the
meantime.  La, I'm all excited over it.  It's the finest thing could happen for you both. Take
it from me, dearie.  I know.  We've had our troubles, Jake and I. And, seeing I'm only six
months short of being a graduate nurse, you needn't fear.  Well, well!"

"I'll need to have food hauled in," Hazel reflected.  "And some things I brought with me. 
I wish Bill were here.  I'm afraid I'll be a lot of bother.  Won't you be heavily loaded, as
it is?"

She recalled swiftly the odd, makeshift team that Lauer depended on--the mule, lop-eared and
solemn, "und Gretchen, der cow."  She had cash and drafts for over three thousand dollars on
her person.  She wondered if it would offend the sturdy independence of these simple, kindly
neighbors, if she offered to supply a four-horse team and wagon for their mutual use?  But
she had been forestalled there, she learned in the next breath.

"Oh, bother nothing," Mrs. Lauer declared.  "Why, we'd be ashamed if we couldn't help a little.
And far's the load goes, you ought to see the four beautiful horses your husband let Jake have.
You don't know how much Jake appreciates it, nor what a fine man he thinks your husband is.
We needed horses so bad, and didn't have the money to buy.  So Mr. Wagstaff didn't say a thing
but got the team for us, and Jake's paying for them in clearing and plowing and making improvements
on your land. Honest, they could pull twice the load we'll have.  There's a good wagon road
most of the way now.  Quite a lot of settlers, too, as much as fifty or sixty miles out.  And
we've got the finest garden you ever saw.  Vegetables enough to feed four families all winter.
Oh, your old cities!  I never want to live in one again.  Never a day have the kiddies been
sick.  Suppose it is a bit out of the world?  You're all the more pleased when somebody does
happen along.  Folks is so different in a new country like this.  There's plenty for everybody--and
everybody helps, like neighbors ought to."

Lauer came up after a time, and Hazel found herself unequivocally in their hands.  With the
matter of transporting herself and supplies thus solved, she set out to find Felix Courvoiseur--who
would know how to get word to Bill.  He might come back to the cabin in a month or so; he might
not come back at all unless he heard from her.  She was smitten with a great fear that he might
give her up as lost to him, and plunge deeper into the wilderness in some mood of recklessness.
And she wanted him, longed for him, if only so that she could make amends.

She easily found Courvoiseur, a tall, spare Frenchman, past middle age. Yes, he could deliver
a message to Bill Wagstaff; that is, he could send a man.  Bill Wagstaff was in the Klappan Range.

"But if he should have left there?" Hazel suggested uneasily.

"'E weel leave weeth W'itey Lewees word of w'ere 'e go," Courvoiseur reassured her.  "An' my
man, w'ich ees my bruzzer-law, w'ich I can mos' fully trus', 'e weel follow 'eem.  So Beel
'e ees arrange.  'E ees say mos' parteecular if madame ees come or weesh for forward message,
geet heem to me queeck.  Oui.  Long tam Beel ees know me.  I am for depend always."

Courvoiseur kept a trader's stock of goods in a weather-beaten old log house which sprawled
a hundred feet back from the street.  Thirty years, he told her, he had kept that store in
Fort George.  She guessed that Bill had selected him because he was a fixture.  She sat down
at his counter and wrote her message.  Just a few terse lines.  And when she had delivered
it to Courvoiseur she went back to the hotel.  There was nothing now to do but wait.  And with
the message under way she found herself impatient to reach the cabin, to spend the waiting
days where she had first found happiness.  She could set her house in order against her man's
coming.  And if the days dragged, and the great, lone land seemed to close in and press inexorably
upon her, she would have to be patient, very patient.

Jake was held up, waiting for supplies.  Fort George suffered a sugar famine.  Two days later,
the belated freight arrived.  He loaded his wagon, a ton of goods for himself, a like weight
of Hazel's supplies and belongings.  A goodly load, but he drove out of Fort George with four
strapping bays arching their powerful necks, and champing on the bit.

"Four days ve vill make it by der ranch," Jake chuckled.  "Mit der mule und Gretchen, der cow,
von veek it take me, mit half der loat."

Four altogether pleasant and satisfying days they were to Hazel.  The worst of the fly pests
were vanished for the season.  A crisp touch of frost sharpened the night winds.  Indian summer
hung its mellow haze over the land.  The clean, pungent air that sifted through the forests
seemed doubly sweet after the vitiated atmosphere of town.  Fresh from a gridiron of dusty
streets and stone pavements, and but stepped, as one might say, from days of imprisonment in
the narrow confines of a railway coach, she drank the winey air in hungry gulps, and joyed
in the soft yielding of the turf beneath her feet, the fern and pea-vine carpet of the forest
floor.

It was her pleasure at night to sleep as she and Bill had slept, with her face bared to the
stars.  She would draw her bed a little aside from the camp fire and from the low seclusion
of a thicket lie watching the nimble flames at their merry dance, smiling lazily at the grotesque
shadows cast by Jake and his frau as they moved about the blaze.  And she would wake in the
morning clear-headed, alert, grateful for the pleasant woodland smells arising wholesomely
from the fecund bosom of the earth.

Lauer pulled up before his own cabin at mid-afternoon of the fourth day, unloaded his own stuff,
and drove to his neighbor's with the rest.

"I'll walk back after a little," Hazel told him, when he had piled her goods in one corner
of the kitchen.

The rattle of the wagon died away.  She was alone--at home.  Her eyes filled as she roved restlessly
from kitchen to living-room and on into the bedroom at the end.  Bill had unpacked.  The rugs
were down, the books stowed in familiar disarray upon their shelves, the bedding spread in
semi-disorder where he had last slept and gone away without troubling to smooth it out in housewifely
fashion.

She came back to the living-room and seated herself in the big chair. She had expected to be
lonely, very lonely.  But she was not.  Perhaps that would come later.  For the present it
seemed as if she had reached the end of something, as if she were very tired, and had gratefully
come to a welcome resting place.

She blinked.  The town--it seemed to have grown remote, a fantasy in which she had played a
puppet part.  But she was home again.  If only the gladness of it endured strong enough to
carry her through whatever black days might come to her there alone.

She would gladly have cooked her supper in the kitchen fireplace, and laid down to sleep under
her own roof.  It seemed the natural thing to do.  But she had not expected to find the cabin
livably arranged, and she had promised the Lauers to spend the night with them.  So presently
she closed the door and walked away through the woods.

CHAPTER XXXIV

AFTER MANY DAYS

September and October trooped past, and as they marched the willow thickets and poplar groves
grew yellow and brown, and carpeted the floor of the woods with fallen leaves.  Shrub and tree
bared gaunt limbs to every autumn wind.  Only the spruce and pine stood forth in their year-round
habiliments of green.  The days shortened steadily. The nights grew long, and bitter with frost.
Snow fell, blanketing softly the dead leaves.  Old Winter cracked his whip masterfully over
all the North.

Day by day, between tasks, and often while she worked, Hazel's eyes would linger on the edges
of the clearing.  Often at night she would lift herself on elbow at some unexpected sound,
her heart leaping wild with expectation.  And always she would lie down again, and sometimes
press her clenched hand to her lips to keep back the despairing cry. Always she adjured herself
to be patient, to wait doggedly as Bill would have waited, to make due allowance for immensity
of distance for the manifold delays which might overtake a messenger faring across those silent
miles or a man hurrying to his home.  Many things might hold him back.  But he would come.
It was inconceivable that he might not come.

Meantime, with only a dim consciousness of the fact, she underwent a marvelous schooling in
adaptation, self-restraint.  She had work of a sort, tasks such as every housewife finds self-imposed
in her own home. She was seldom lonely.  She marveled at that.  It was unique in her experience.
All her old dread of the profound silence, the pathless forests which infolded like a prison
wall, distances which seemed impossible of span, had vanished.  In its place had fallen over
her an abiding sense of peace, of security.  The lusty storm winds whistling about the cabin
sang a restful lullaby.  When the wolves lifted their weird, melancholy plaint to the cold,
star-jeweled skies, she listened without the old shudder.  These things, which were wont to
oppress her, to send her imagination reeling along morbid ways, seemed but a natural aspect
of life, of which she herself was a part.

Often, sitting before her glowing fireplace, watching a flame kindled with her own hands with
wood she herself had carried from the pile outside, she pondered this.  It defied her powers
of self-analysis. She could only accept it as a fact, and be glad.  Granville and all that
Granville stood for had withdrawn to a more or less remote background.  She could look out
over the frost-spangled forests and feel that she lacked nothing--nothing save her mate.  There
was no impression of transient abiding; no chafing to be elsewhere, to do otherwise.  It was
home, she reflected; perhaps that was why.

A simple routine served to fill her days.  She kept her house shining, she cooked her food,
carried in her fuel.  Except on days of forthright storm she put on her snowshoes, and with
a little rifle in the crook of her arm prowled at random through the woods--partly because
it gave her pleasure to range sturdily afield, partly for the physical brace of exertion in
the crisp air.  Otherwise she curled comfortably before the fire-place, and sewed, or read
something out of Bill's catholic assortment of books.

It was given her, also, to learn the true meaning of neighborliness, that kindliness of spirit
which is stifled by stress in the crowded places, and stimulated by like stress amid surroundings
where life is noncomplex, direct, where cause and effect tread on each other's heels. Every
day, if she failed to drop into their cabin, came one of her neighbors to see if all were well
with her.  Quite as a matter of course Jake kept steadily replenished for her a great pile
of firewood. Or they would come, babies and all, bundled in furs of Jake's trapping, jingling
up of an evening behind the frisky bays.  And while the bays munched hay in Roaring Bill Wagstaff's
stable, they would cluster about the open hearth, popping corn for the children, talking, always
with cheerful optimism.

Behind Lauer's mild blue eyes lurked a mind that burrowed incessantly to the roots of things.
He had lived and worked and read, and, pondering it all, he had summed up a few of the verities.

"Life, it iss giffen us, und ve must off it make der best ve can," he said once to Hazel, fondling
a few books he had borrowed to read at home.  "Life iss goot, yust der liffing off life, if
only ve go not astray afder der voolish dings--und if der self-breservation struggle vears
us not out so dot ve gannot enjoy being alife.  So many iss struggle und slave under terrible
conditions.  Und it iss largely because off ignorance.  Ve know not vot ve can do--und ve shrink
vrom der unknown.  Here iss acres by der dousand vree to der man vot can off it make use--und
dousands vot liffs und dies und neffer hass a home. Here iss goot, glean air--und in der shmoke
und shmells und dirty streets iss a ravage of tuberculosis.  Der balance iss not true.  Und
in der own vay der rich iss full off drouble--drunk mit eggcitement, veary mit bleasures. 
Ach, der voods und mountains und streams, blenty off food, und a kindly neighbor--iss not dot
enough?  Only der abnormal vants more as dot.  Und I dink der drouble iss largely dot der modern,
high-bressure cifilization makes for der abnormal, vedder a man iss a millionaire or vorks
in der brewery, contentment iss a state off der mind--und if der mind vorks mit logic it vill
content find in der simple dings."

It sounded like a pronouncement of Bill's.  But Lauer did not often grow serious.  Mostly he
was jovially cheerful, and his wife likewise. The North had emancipated them, and they were
loyal to the source of their deliverance.  And Hazel understood, because she herself had found
the wild land a benefactor, kindly in its silence, restful in its forested peace, a cure for
sickness of soul.  Twice now it had rescued her from herself.

November and December went their appointed way--and still no word of Bill.  If now and then
her pillow was wet she struggled mightily against depression.  She was not lonely in the dire
significance of the word--but she longed passionately for him.  And she held fast to her faith
that he would come.

The last of the old year she went little abroad, ventured seldom beyond the clearing.  And
on New Year's Eve Jake Lauer's wife came to the cabin to stay.

Hazel sat up, wide awake, on the instant.  There was not the slightest sound.  She had been
deep in sleep.  Nevertheless she felt, rather than knew, that some one was in the living-room.
Perhaps the sound of the door opening had filtered through her slumber.  She hesitated an instant,
not through fear, because in the months of living alone fear had utterly forsaken her; but
hope had leaped so often, only to fall sickeningly, that she was half persuaded it must be
a dream.  Still the impression strengthened.  She slipped out of bed.  The door of the bedroom
stood slightly ajar.  She had left a great bed of coals on the hearth, and the glow shone redly
on his frost-scabbed face.  But the marks of bitter trail bucking, the marks of frostbite,
the stubby beard, the tiny icicles that still clustered on his eyebrows; while these traces
of hardship tugged at her heart they were forgotten when she saw the expression that overshadowed
his face.  Wonder and unbelief and longing were all mirrored there. She took a shy step forward
to see what riveted his gaze.  And despite the choking sensation in her throat she smiled--for
she had taken off her little, beaded house moccasins and left them lying on the bearskin before
the fire, and he was staring down at them like a man fresh-wakened from a dream, unbelieving
and bewildered.

With that she opened the door and ran to him.  He started, as if she had been a ghost.  Then
he opened his arms and drew her close to him.

"Bill, Bill, what made you so long?" she whispered.  "I guess it served me right, but it seemed
a never-ending time."

"What made me so long?" he echoed, bending his rough cheek down against the warm smoothness
of hers.  "Lord, I didn't know you wanted me.  I ain't no telepathist, hon.  You never yeeped
one little word since I left.  How long you been here?"

"Since last September."  She smiled up at him.  "Didn't Courvoiseur's man deliver a message
from me to the mine?  Didn't you come in answer to my note?"

"Great Caesar's ghost--since September--alone!  You poor little girl!" he murmured.  "No, if
you sent word to me through Courvoiseur I never got it.  Maybe something happened his man.
I left the Klappan with the first snow.  Went poking aimlessly over around the Finlay River
with a couple of trappers.  Couldn't settle down.  Never heard a word from you.  I'd given
you up.  I just blew in this way by sheer accident. Girl, girl, you don't know how good it
is to see you again, to have this warm body of yours cuddled up to me again.  And you came
right here and planted yourself to wait till I turned up?"

"Sure!"  She laughed happily.  "But I sent you word, even if you never got it.  Oh, well, it
doesn't matter.  Nothing matters now.  You're here, and I'm here, and--  Oh, Billy-boy, I was
an awful pig-headed idiot.  Do you think you can take another chance with me?"

"Say"--he held her off at arm's length admiringly--"do you want to know how strong I am for
taking a chance with you?  Well, I was on my way out to flag the next train East, just to see--just
to see if you still cared two pins; to see if you still thought your game was better than mine."

