Vibration or tremolo, bad when produced involuntarily by the singer, becomes a brilliant quality
when it is voluntary and used at an opportune time. Every break must be preceded by a vibration,
which prepares the way for it.

Prolations are laryngeal articulations. Great care must be taken not to substitute pectoral
articulations for them.

The chest is a passive agent; it should furnish nothing but the breath. The mouth and the larynx
alone are entitled to act.

On the Tearing of the Voice.

Exuberance of the contained brings on destruction of that which contains it. Tearing of the
voice, therefore, should only be associated with an excessive extension of the sound whose
intensity, as we have demonstrated, is in inverse ratio to the dramatic proportion.

Number.

The figure 1 is characteristic of unity and measure. The figure 2, which is the measure in
the 1, should become subordinate in its greatness and be equal with it. It is another one which
gives birth to the idea of number.

The idea of number can only arise from the presence of terms of the same nature. Thus the idea
of number cannot arise from the presence of a cart and a toad. We shall thus have two very
distinct unities, having no kind of relation to each other. There must, therefore, be equality
before there can be number. This is so true that we cannot say of a man and a child that they
are two men or two children, because the one is not equal to the other. It is, therefore, from
the point of an attributive equality that we are enabled to say: They are two. But we can say:
There are two beings, because in regard to being they are equal one to the other. We now understand
how two equals one, that the two figures have an equal importance, and that the figure 1 contains
exclusively the idea of measure; the figure 2 contains the idea of number, which is not in
the 1, this being the characteristic feature by which the two terms differ.

Now, how are we to form a perfect unity between these two equal but distinct terms?

A single operation will suffice to give us the idea we wish, and this operation is revealed
to us entire in the word weight. In fact, the two terms can only be united by this word. We
feel that 1 and 2 give us a common weight, the sum of which is represented by the figure 3.
The figure 3 is, therefore, equal in importance to 1 and to 2; it maintains equality in the
terms of which it is the representative, and its characteristic feature is equally important
with those already described.

Thus to the figure 1 belongs the idea of measure; to the figure 2 belongs the idea of number;
to the figure 3 belongs exclusively the idea of reünion, of community, of unity in fine, which
no other figure can reveal to us. We may say: 1 and 1 are equal among themselves, in the unity
of the figure 3; or, in other words: Measure and number find their unity in weight.

Medallion of Inflection (Compare Delaumosne, page 119.)

Explanation.--The vertical line 1 (from top to bottom) expresses affirmation, confirmation;
2, the horizontal line, expresses negation. The oblique lines, 3 and 4, from within outward
and from without inward, express rejection. 4, an oblique line from within outward rejects
things which we despise. 3, a line from within outward, rejects things which oppress us and
of which we wish to get rid. 5, the quadrant of a circle, whose form recalls that of a hammock,
expresses well-being, contentment, confidence and happiness. 6, a similar quadrant of a circle,
an eccentric curvilinear, expresses secrecy, silence, domination, persuasion, stability, imposition,
inclosure. The reëntering external curvilinear quadrant of a circle, 7, expresses graceful,
delicate things. Produced in two ways, from above downward, it expresses physical delicacy;
from below upward, moral and intellectual delicacy. The external quadrant of a circle, 8, expresses
exuberance and plenitude, amplitude and generosity. The circular line surrounding and embracing
is characteristic of glorification and exaltation.

Examples.

1. You may believe 2. That none, oh Lord 3. Had such glory 4. Or such happiness.

Thy voice, brother, cannot be heard.

After such a marvel one might believe a thousand others without raising his eyebrows.

 The other was a perfect
master of the art of cheating.

Remark.--These inflections being produced, it is essential to know the centre from which they
emanate. The amplitude of the circle described must be in harmony with the object in question.
Thus a circle may be produced with the entire arm, and glorification is the thing in question.

 grace, elegance

 charm, elevation

 Light and amiable.

 Light and spiritual.

The half quarter of a circle characteristic of exuberance combined with the half quarter circle
characteristic of delicacy, expreses grace. It is delicacy mixed with abundance; tenuity supported
by generosity.

 The rejection of a
contemptible thing (4)
concluded by happiness,
well-being (5) signifies
that repose will not be purchased
at the cost of a contemptible
thing.

 The possession of
happiness.

 The 3 combined
with the 5 rejection
of an illusory happiness.

Note.--The figures 3, 4, 5, 6, refer to the corresponding figures in the Medallion of Inflection.

The hand placed horizontally, the back uppermost pirouetting on the wrist alternately in pronation
and supination, thus passing from force to feebleness and from feebleness to force, characterizes
irritability. [Compare Delaumosne, pages 114-118.]

The Nature of the Colors of Each Circle in the Color Charts.

Red, Blue and Yellow.

Red is the color of life. Indeed, this is asserted by fire, by the heat of the blood.

Blue is the color of the mind. Is not blue the color of the sky, the home of pure intellects,
set free from the body, who see and know all things? To them everything is in the light.

Yellow is the color of the soul. Yellow is the color of flame.

Flame contains the warmth of life and the light of the mind. As the soul contains and unites
the life and the mind, so the flame warms and shines. [Compare Delaumosne, page 157.]

The Attributes of Reason.

The human reason, that haughty faculty, deified in our age by a myriad of perverse and commonplace
minds known under the derisive and doubly vain title of freethinkers, is but blind, despite
its high opinion of its own insight. Yes, and we affirm by certain intuition that man's reason
is not and cannot be otherwise than blind, aside from the revealing principle which only enlightens
it in proportion to its subordination; for, abandoned to itself, reason can only err and must
fatally fall into an abyss of illusions.

The melancholy age in which we live but too often offers us an example of the lamentable mistakes
into which we are hurried by misguided reason, which, yielding to a criminal presumption, deserts
without remorse the principle super-abounding in life, light and glory.

To understand such an anomaly, to explain how reason, which constitutes one of the highest
attributes of man, is so far subject to error, it is essential to have a thorough apprehension
of the complexity of its nature. What, then, is the real nature of the reason so little studied
and so illy known by those very men who raise altars in its honor? Let us try to produce a
clear demonstration. And let us first say that reason does not constitute a primary principle
in man; for a primary principle could never mistake its object. Neither is it a primary faculty;
it is only the form or the manner of being of such a faculty, and thus cannot be a light in
itself. The rays by which it shines are external to it in the sense that it receives them from
the principle which governs and fertilizes it. Still, let us say that, although neither a principle
nor a faculty, reason is none the less, with conscience, of which it forms the base, the noblest
power of man; for this power God created free; free from subjection to the principle that enlightens
it; free, too, to escape from it. Yet every power necessarily recognizes a guiding principle
to whose service it needs must bow; but to reason alone it is granted to avoid the law which
imperiously rules the relations of the harmonious subordination of principiant faculties to
their principles. Hence the error or possible blindness of reason; hence also its incomparable
grandeur, which lies solely in its free and spontaneous subordination. These principles established,
let us go still farther, and penetrate deeper into the mysterious genius of reason.

authorized to define reason. He did it in terms at once so simple, so precise, and of such
exquisite clarity, that we may venture to think that reason itself could not have better rendered
the terms of its own entity.

This definition, let no one fail to see, contains in its extreme brevity more substance than
would fill a voluminous treatise. This, then, is his definition:

Reason is the discursive form of the intellect.

Now by this St. Thomas plainly establishes that reason, distinct from the intellect, with which
we must beware of confounding it, proceeds from it as effect proceeds from cause. Therefore,
intellect surpasses reason as its principiant and guiding faculty; and reason only figures
in the intelligential sphere, despite the important part it plays in virtue of its adjunctive
or supplementing power.

But what is the purpose of this adjunction? Here, in reply to this grave and important question,
let us refer to what the same scholar says elsewhere. "Reason arises," he says, "from the failure
of intellect." Certainly this is a luminous, and doubtless a very unexpected proposition. From
it we learn, on the one hand, that the intellect is liable to defects and consequently to weaknesses;
on the other hand, it seems established that the adjunctive power comes to aid the faculty
which governs it, since here the subjected is born of the failure of the subjector.

Let us explain this fresh anomaly. We have in the first place declared the preceding proposition
luminous in spite of the obscurity into which we are plunged by the consequences which we have
derived from it; but, patience! We are already aware that it is from the very obscurity of
things that the brightest light sometimes bursts upon contemplative eyes; and since faith is
the next principle to knowledge, let us have faith at least in the trustworthiness of him who
addresses us, especially as he has given us repeated, unequivocal tokens of sound and upright
reason. Let us, then, have no doubt that the preceding proposition contains a precious precept;
and very certainly light will soon dawn on our mind.

This settled, and for the better understanding of the meaning attached to this proposition,
let us call to our aid the powers of analogy.

If reason arises from the failure of intellect it is doubtless to rectify the valuations of
the ego. Now the compass, which is in itself very inferior to the hand which fashions it and
appropriates it to its own use, nevertheless implies a defect in that hand which directs it.
So there is between the eye and the telescope, which comes to its aid, all the distance that
divides the faculty from the instrument which it governs. Still the telescope joined to the
eye communicates to it a great power of vision; but the instrument arises from the failure
of the eye, which is nevertheless infinitely superior to it; for it is the eye which sees,
and not the telescope.

It is thus that we must understand the relations of reason and intellect. Let us say, then,
that the reason is to the intellect exactly what the telescope is to the eye. This established,
we can formulate the following definition as well founded.

The intellect is the spiritual eye whose mysterious telescope reason forms, or: reason is a
necessary appendage of mental optics, or again: reason is the glass used by the eye of a defective
intellect.

But this is not all. St. Thomas provides us still elsewhere with the means of making our analogy
more striking. He says, indeed: reason is given us to make clear that which is not evident.
Is not this, as it were, the seal of truth applied to our demonstration? Thus the eye uses
the telescope absolutely as the intellect employs the reason, to make clear that which is not
evident.

Of course it is plain that if the sight and the intellect answered perfectly to their object,
they could do without this adjunct which betrays their imperfection. The intellect would thenceforth
have no more need of reason than the eye of glasses.

This explains the fact, so important to consider, that the clearer the mental vision is the
less one reasons. The angels do not reason; they see clearly what is troubled and confused
by our mind. No one reasons in heaven, there is no logician there, no--Intelligence is immortal,
but reason, which serves it here below, will fade away in eternity with the senses which like
it do but form the conditions of time.

Divine reason alone will endure because it has nothing accidental, and it is substantially
united to the eternal word. It is that reason toward which all blest intelligences will finally
gravitate. Hence, we see that what already partakes of the celestial life repels reasoning
as a cause of imperfection or infirmity. It is thus, by its exclusion of reasons, that the
Gospel supremely proves its celestial origin. It is, indeed, a thing well worth remark, especially
worthy of our admiration, that there is not to be found, in the four Gospels, a single piece
of reasoning, any more than there is an interjection to be found.

Let us add that faith does not reason: which does not mean, as so many misbelievers feign,
that faith is fulfilled by blindness or ignorance of the objects of its veneration. Quite the
contrary. Faith dispenses with reason because of the perfection of its sight. It is, finally,
because it is superior to reason and sees things from a higher plane. This is what so many
short-sighted people cannot see; and, to return to our analogy, it seems to them able to see
nothing save through the glasses of reason. It seems to them, I say, that any man who does
not wear glasses must see crooked. Keep your glasses, my good souls! They suit short limits
of sight. But we, who, thank God, have sound sight, are only troubled and clouded by them.

It is thus that reason, which is given us to make clear what is not evident, frequently obscures
even the very evidence itself. We might confirm this declaration by a thousand examples. To
cite but one, let us point out how plainly the spectacle of the universe of thought and the
idea of a Divine Creator prove that no glasses are required to contemplate God in His works.
Well! scientists have felt obliged to direct theirs upon these simple notions, and have thus,
i.e., by force of reasoning, succeeded in confusing out of all recognition a question sparkling
with evidence, so much so that they will fall into such a state of blindness that they can
no longer see in this world any trace of the Supreme Intelligence which is yet manifested with
glory in the least of His creatures. Consequently, they will bluntly deny the existence of
God; but as they still must needs admit a creative cause, they have to that end invented moving
atoms and have made from these strange corpuscles something so perfectly invisible that they
can spare themselves the trouble of providing public curiosity with a living proof of their theory.

The scientist is born perverted, as was said of the Frenchman who created the vaudeville; and
men, too strong-minded and above all too full of reason to give any credence to the mysteries
taught by the church, have displayed a blind faith in respect to moving atoms. They think thus
to set themselves free from what they call the prejudices of their fathers. They find no difficulty
in attributing to invisible corpuscles both the plan and the execution of the beings who people
the universe.

This is the fine conception attributed to what is called a higher reason--a conception before
which bow legions of strong minds. To such a degree of degradation can reason drag man down.

It is, therefore, dangerous to consult the reason in any case where evidence is likely to be
called into play. But, before proceeding farther in the course of our demonstrations, a question
presents itself. It may be asked what we think of another kind of reason--pure reason; for
it appears that in the opinion of certain philosophers pure reason does exist. I do not know
where they authenticated and studied this species of reason. For myself I confess in all humility
that not only have I never seen a pure reason, but it has never even been possible for me to
raise my mind to the point of comprehending the signification of pure reason. I greatly fear
that some nonsense lurks within the phrase, such transcendental nonsense as belongs to ideological
philosophers alone. I know not why, but these gentlemen's pure reason always gives me the sensation
of a strong blast of moving atoms. In fact, it is not clear; but why require clarity of philosophers
and ideologists?

But let us leave these senseless words and pursue the course of our demonstrations.

What we have said of reason is quite sufficient to prevent its confusion with the faculty whose
discursive form it is. But this is not enough. We must, by still more delicate distinctions,
make any confusion between these two terms impossible.

Reason, although essentially allied to intelligence, is not, like it, primordial in man. Thus
God created man intelligent, and consequently susceptible of reason; but we do not see the
word reason brought into play in Genesis, because it merely expresses a derivation from the
mind or intellect. Reason, therefore, is secondary and posterior in the genetic order. But
here to the support of this assertion we have a striking and undeniable proof; namely, that
the infant is born intelligent but not reasonable. Intellect proceeds directly from that true
light which shines in every man on his entrance into the world, while reason is merely the
fruit of experience. A proof of the superiority of intelligence to reason is seen in the fact
that it partakes of the immutable, and is not like the latter, liable to progress.

Thus the child is seen to be as intelligent as an adult man can be. Let us rather say that
it is in the child especially that intelligence displays its brightest rays. Yet he is not
furnished with reason. And why not? Because he has no experience. Reason, therefore, is an
acquired power, whose light is borrowed from experience or tradition.

Reason is proportional to the experience acquired. Practical reason or rationality is the ration
or portion of experience allotted to each person.

Reason is to the mental vision exactly what the eye is to optical vision, and just as the eye
borrows its visual action from external light, so reason borrows its power of clear and correct
vision from traditional experience. The similarity is absolute.

Suppress light, and vision ceases to be possible. Suppress revelation from intellectual objects,
and reason is thenceforth blind.

Between reason and intelligence, although there be inclusion and co-essentiality in these terms,
there is a great difference in the mode of cognizance; for, as St. Augustine says, intelligence
is shown by simple perception, and reason by the discursive process. Thus, while intelligence
acts simply, as in knowing an intelligible truth by the light of its own intuition, reason
goes toward its end progressively, from one thing known to another not yet known.

The latter, as St. Thomas says, implies an imperfection. The former, on the contrary, beseems
a perfect being. It is, therefore, evident, adds the same profound thinker, that reasoning
bears the same relation to knowledge that motion does to repose, or as acquisition to possession.
The one is of an imperfect nature, and the other of a perfect nature. Boëthius compares the
intellect to eternity; reason, to time.

Yet human reason, according to the principle which illuminates it, offers three degrees of
elevation which we will distinguish, for readier comprehension, by three special terms, namely:
first, tradition or the experience of another; second, personal experience; third, the reason
of things.

Trained by tradition, reason is called common sense. Trained by personal experience to the
knowledge of principles, reason is called science. Trained by the contemplation of principles
to the perfection of the intellect, reason is called wisdom.

What we call practical reason is based upon the authority of tradition and the lessons of other
people's experience in regard to the customary and moral matters of life.

Speculative or discursive reason judges by the criterion of its own experience; thereby inferring
consequences more or less in conformity with traditional teachings, and arriving by the logical
order of its deductions and in virtue of the principles which it accepts and which it applies
to its discoveries, at what we call science.

Transcendental reason pursues, in the effects which it examines, the investigation of their
cause, and rises thence to the very reason of things. Wherefore it silences reasoning, enters
into a silent and persistent course of observation, consults the facts, examines, studies and
questions the principles whence it sees them to be deduced; and, without yielding to the obscurity
in which these principles are enveloped, pierces that obscurity by the penetrative force of
unremitting attention. Inspired by the standard of faith, it knows that the spirit of God exists
at the root of these mysteries. It clings thereto, unites itself thereto by contemplation,
and finally draws from this union its strength, its light and its joy.

Such is the course of wisdom, and such are the inestimable advantages of faith to reason. It
is in fact by faith that reason is aggrandized and elevated to the height of the intellect
whence it draws its certitude.

Reason believes because it desires to understand, and because it knows that faith is the next
principle to knowledge.

Thus the grandeur of reason is proportioned to its humility; proportioned, I would say, to
the efforts which it multiplies to forget itself when the truth addresses it. But such is not
the method of procedure of "strong minds." They have a horror of the mysteries toward which
they are still urged by correct instincts. The fact is, let us say it boldly, they fear lest
they find God there.

In these misguided spirits there is so much presumption, self-conceit, self-love, that they
are, in the nullity of their lofty pride, a worship unto themselves, an idolatry of their own
reason. They have deified it,--that poor, frail reason; and this, while mutilating it, while
proclaiming it independent and free from all law, from all principle, from everything definite.

To what excess of imbecility, then, have we not seen these freethinkers fall, these apostles
of independent reason, who on principle boast that they have no faith and no law! Thence comes
the scorn which afflicts these unbelievers for all who believe and hope here below; thence,
their systematic ignorance of fundamental questions; thence, the incurable blindness in which
they bask; thence, finally, the inconsistencies and contradictions which make them a spectacle
humiliating to the human mind.

But agnostic man labors in vain. He cannot escape the mysteries which surround him on every
hand, like a gulf in which reason is inevitably lost so soon as it ceases to seek the light.

Man stumbles at every turn against the efforts of a stronger reason than his own,--the Supreme
Reason before which, nilly nilly, his must bow and confess the insanity of its judgments.

Logic is not, to reason, a sure guide; and even where it feels its foothold most strong, it
sometimes trips, to the disgrace of the good opinion it had of its own infallibility.

Let us show by a simple example to what rebuffs our reason is exposed when counting on the
support of its logic, face to face with the reason of facts.

Undoubtedly it is logical and perfectly in conformity with reason, to say that one and one
make two. No doubt seems possible on that point. Well, this elementary truth, the most undeniable
in the eyes of all men which can be produced, does not, despite the assurances which seem to
uphold it, constitute an impregnable axiom; for there are cases when one and one do not make
two! Certainly such a proposition seems scarcely reasonable, for its admission would entail
the reversal of what are called the sound notions of logic! But what will the logician say
if I affirm that in a certain case, one and one make but one-half? Would he even take the trouble
to refute me? No, he would laugh in my face; he would not listen to me; he would tax me with
absurdity and insanity, preferring thus to lose a chance of instruction rather than confess
the impotence of his logic.

There is the evil, and it is generally in this way that ignorance is perpetuated. But let us
return to the fact which we desire to prove, contrary to logic and the pretensions of ordinary
reason.

Now, it is logical and perfectly in conformity with reason to say that two musical instruments
make more noise than one; and that thus two double basses, for example, tuned in unison and
placed side by side, produce one sound of a double intensity. This seems an elementary matter.
It is as clear, you say, as that one and one make two. Well, no, it is not so clear as you
suppose. It is, on the contrary, a mistake; for attentive experiment proves that the result
is diametrically opposite to the logical conclusion.

This is a fact which no argument can destroy. Two double basses, placed in the above-named
conditions--conditions of vicinity and tonal identity--far from adding up their individual
result, are thus reduced each to a quarter of its own sonority, which in the sum total, instead
of producing a double sound, produces a sound reduced to half of that given individually by
each instrument taken alone. This is how a power plus an analogous power equals together with
it but half a power; and thus we are forced to admit that one and one do not necessarily make two.

I have carried the experiment still farther; in the instrument which gained me a first-class
medal at the exhibition of 1854, I was enabled to put thirty-six strings of the same piano
into unison at once. Well! All these strings, struck simultaneously, did not attain to the
intensity of sound produced by one of them struck singly. All these sounds, far from gaining
strength by union, reciprocally neutralized one another. This is not logical, I admit; but
we must submit to it.

Logic must be silent and reason bow before the brutal force of a fact to which there is no
objection to be raised.

Since we are on the subject of the phenomena of sonority, let us draw another illustration
from it, quite as overwhelming in its illogicalness as the former.

