NAME and FAME

                             A NOVEL

                        BY ADELINE SERGEANT

Author of "The Great Mill Street Mystery," "A True Friend," "A Life Sentence," etc., etc.

Montreal: JOHN LOVELL & SON, 23 St. Nicholas Street.

[Handwritten: This is the only edition of "Name and Fame" published in the United States and
Canada with my authority, and the only one by the sale, which I shall profit. Adeline Sergeant.]

Entered according to Act of Parliament in the year 1890, by John Lovell & Son, in the office
of the Minister of Agriculture and Statistics at Ottawa.

NAME AND FAME

CHAPTER I.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

It was a brilliant day in June. The sky was cloudless and dazzlingly blue, but the heat of
the sun's rays was tempered by a deliciously cool breeze, and the foliage of the trees that
clothe the pleasant slopes round the vivacious little town of Aix-les-Bains afforded plenty
of shade to the pedestrian. Aix was, as usual, very crowded and very gay. German potentates
abounded: French notabilities were not wanting: it was rumored that English royalty was coming.
A very motley crowd of divers nationalities drank the waters every morning and discussed the
latest society scandal. Festivity seemed to haunt the very air of the place, beaming from the
trim white villas with their smart green jalousies, the tall hotels with crudely tinted flags
flying from their roofs, the cheery little shops with their cheerier dames de comptoir smiling
complacently on the tourists who unwarily bought their goods. Ladies in gay toilets, with scarlet
parasols or floating feathers, made vivid patches of color against the green background of
the gardens, and the streets were now and then touched into picturesqueness by the passing
of some half-dozen peasants who had come from the neighboring villages to sell their butter
or their eggs. The men in their blue blouses were mostly lean, dark, and taciturn; the women,
small, black-eyed, and vivacious, with bright-colored petticoats, long earrings, and the quaintest
of round white caps. The silvery whiteness of the lake, flashing back an answer to the sunlight,
gave a peculiarly joyous radiance to the scene. For water is to a landscape what the eye is
to the human countenance: it gives life and expression; without it, the most beautiful features
may be blank and uninteresting.

But the brightness of the scene did not find an echo in every heart.

"Dame!" said a French waiter, who stood, napkin in hand, at a window of the Hôtel Venat, watching
the passers-by, "there they go, that cold, sullen English pair, looking as if nothing on earth
would make them smile again!"

A bullet-headed little man in a white apron stepped up to the window and stared in the direction
that Auguste's eyes had taken.

"Tiens, donc! Quelle tournure! But she is superb!" he exclaimed, as if in remonstrance.

"She is handsome--oui, sans doute; but see how she frowns! I like a woman who smiles, who coquettes,
who knows how to divert herself--like Mademoiselle Lisette here, queen of my heart and life."

And Auguste bowed sentimentally to a pretty little chambermaid who came tripping up the stairs
at that moment, and laid his hand upon his heart.

"You are too polite, Monsieur Auguste," Lisette responded amicably. "And at whom are you gazing
so earnestly?"

"At the belle Anglaise--you can still see her, if you look--she is charmingly dressed, but----"

"She is magnificent! simply magnificent," murmured the bullet-headed Jean, who was not, like
his friend, enamored of the pert Lisette. "I have never seen so splendid an Englishwoman, never!
nor one who had so much the true Parisian air!"

Lisette uttered a shrill little scream of laughter. "Do you know the reason, mon ami? She is
not English at all: she is a compatriot. He--the husband--he is English; but she is French,
I tell you, French to the finger-tips."

"Voyons; what rooms have they?"

"They are au quatrième--they are poor--poor," said Lisette, with infinite scorn. "I wait on
them a little--not much; they have been here three days, and one can see----But the gentleman,
he is generous. When madame scolds, he gives me money to buy my forbearance; she has the temper
of a demon, the tongue of a veritable fiend!"

"Ah! He loves her, then!" said Auguste, putting his head on one side.

Lisette snapped her fingers. "Ah, oui! He loves her so well that he will strangle her one of
these days when she says a word too much and he is in his sombre mood! Quiet as he is, I would
not go too far with him, ce beau monsieur! He will not be patient always--you will see!"

She went on her way, and the waiters remained at the window in the corridor. The lady and gentlemen
of whom they spoke had turned into the hotel garden, and were walking up and down its gravelled
paths, apparently in silence. Auguste and Jean watched them, as if fascinated by the sight
of the taciturn pair, who now and then were lost to sight behind a clump of trees or in some
shady walk, presently reappearing in the full sunshine, with the air of those who wish for
some reason or other to show themselves as much as possible.

This, at least, was the impression produced by the air and gait of the woman; not by those
of the man. He walked beside her gravely, somewhat dejectedly, indeed. There was a look of
resignation in his face, which contrasted forcibly with the flaunting audacity visible in every
gesture of the woman who was his wife.

He was the less noticeable of the two, but still a handsome man in his way, of a refined and
almost scholarly type. He was tall, and although rather of slender than powerful build, his
movements were characterized by the mingled grace and alertness which may be seen when well-proportioned
limbs are trained to every kind of athletic exercise. His face, however, was that of the dreamer,
not of the athlete. He had a fine brow, thoughtful brown eyes, a somewhat long nose with sensitive
nostrils, a stern-set mouth, and resolute chin. The spare outlines of his face, well defined
yet delicate withal, sometimes reminded strangers of Giotto's frescoed head of Dante in his
youth. But the mouth was partly hidden beneath a dark brown moustache; a pity from the artistic
point of view. Refinement was the first and predominating characteristic of his face; thoughtful
melancholy, the second. It was evident, even to the most casual observer, that this man was
eminently unfitted to be the husband of the woman at his side.

For a woman she was unusually tall. She was also unusually handsome. She had a magnificent
figure, a commanding presence, good features, hair, and eyes; yet the impression that she produced
was anything but pleasant. The flashing dark eyes were too bold and too defiant; the carmine
on her cheeks was artificially laid on, and her face had been dabbed with a powder puff in
very reckless fashion. Her black hair was frizzed and tortured in the latest mode, and her
dress made in so novel a style that it looked outré, even at a fashionable watering-place.
Dress, bonnet and parasol were scarlet of hue; and the vivid tint was softened but slightly
by the black lace which fell in cascades from her closely-swathed neck to the hem of her dress,
fastened here and there by diamond pins. If it were possible that, as Lisette had said, Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Walcott were poor, their poverty was not apparent in Mrs. Walcott's dress. Black
and scarlet were certainly becoming to her, but the effect in broad daylight was too startling
for good taste. To a critical observer, moreover, there was something unpleasantly suggestive
in her movements: the way in which she walked and held her parasol, and turned her head from
side to side, spoke of a desire to attract attention, and a delight in admiration even of the
coarsest and least complimentary kind.

There was certainly something in the bearing of husband and wife that attracted notice. Her
vivacity and her boldness, a certain weariness and reluctance in his air, as if he were paraded
up and down these garden walks against his will, led others beside inquisitive French waiters
to watch the movements of the pair. And they were in full view of several gazers when an unexpected
and dramatic incident occurred.

A man who had sauntered out of the hotel into the gardens directed his steps towards them,
and met them face to face as they issued from one of the side-paths. He was not tall, but he
was dapper and agile: his moustache curled fiercely, and his eyeglass was worn with something
of an aggressive air. He was perfectly dressed, except that--for English taste--he wore too
much jewellery; and from the crown of his shining hat to the tip of his polished pointed boot
he was essentially Parisian--a dandy of the Boulevards, or rather, perhaps, of the Palais Royal--an
exquisite who prided himself upon the fit of his trousers and the swing of his Malacca cane.

He paused as he met the Walcotts, and raised his hat with a true French flourish. The lady
laughed, showing a row of very white, even teeth, and held out her hand. Her husband sprang
forward, uttering an angry word of remonstrance or command. The Frenchman grinned insolently,
and answered with a sneer.

The Englishman seemed to gain in dignity as he replied. His wife laughed loudly and unpleasantly,
however, and then, with a quick movement which proved him agile as a cat, the Frenchman struck
him with his cane across the face. In another moment, Alan Walcott had taken him by the collar
and wrested the cane from his hand. Whether or no he would have administered the thrashing
that the man deserved must remain an unsettled question, for hotel servants and functionaries
came rushing to the rescue, guests flocked to the scene in hopes of further excitement, and
all was bustle and confusion. Mrs. Walcott began to scream violently, as soon as she saw signs
of an impending conflict, and was finally carried into the house in a fit of hysterics.

A very pretty little altercation between the two combatants--who were separated with difficulty--and
the landlord and his myrmidons then followed. The police arrived rather late on the scene,
but were speedily quieted by assurances that peace was restored, and by the transfer of a few
coins from Alan Walcott's pockets to their own. The aggressor, who gave his name as Henri de
Hauteville, was politely requested to leave the Hôtel Venat; and Mr. Walcott declared his own
intention of proceeding to Paris next morning. Accordingly the Frenchman speedily disappeared,
but it was noticed that he dropped a word to his enemy, which Walcott answered by a bend of
his head, and that he was seen shortly afterwards arm-in-arm with a young officer who was known
to be an enthusiast in the matter of duelling.

An hour later Alan Walcott was crossing the hall with a hurried step and a face expressive
of deep anxiety and vexation, when he encountered a stout, fair Englishman, who greeted him
with effusion.

"You here, Walcott? Never thought of meeting you."

"I'm glad to see you, Dalton. I was longing at that very moment for some one to act as my friend."

"Not in the conventional meaning, I hope," laughed Dalton. "Your way of putting it suggests
a duel--which no Englishman of any sense would embark in, I should hope!"

Dalton was a fresh-colored, blue-eyed man, of nearly thirty years of age. His frankness of
manner and shrewdness of expression contrasted forcibly with the subtle dreaminess characteristic
of Alan Walcott's face. Alan eyed him curiously, as if doubtful whether he should proceed.

"I am not altogether an Englishman," he said presently, "which may account in your eyes for
some lack of sense. I want you, as a friend, in the most conventional manner possible. Come
out with me and let us talk it over."

The two men went out and talked together for upwards of an hour. When they separated the expression
of their faces afforded a curious contrast. Alan looked defiant, resolved, almost triumphant;
but Brooke Dalton went on his way wagging his head in a depressed and melancholy manner, as
if his soul were afflicted by misgivings of many kinds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Alan Walcott had said that he should leave Aix-les-Bains next day, but the state of his
wife's health rendered it impossible for her to quit the hotel, and he could not very well
separate himself from her. She continued for some time in shrieking hysterics, varied by fainting
fits; and when she became quieter, under the influence of a soporific administered by the doctor,
she declared herself quite too ill and exhausted to rise from her bed. Her husband remained
with her night and day, until the second morning, when he escaped from her sight and ken for
a couple of hours, and absolutely refused to tell her where he had been. His refusal seemed
to produce a quieting effect upon her. She became very still, and lay watching him, with a
sullen, puzzled look in her great dark eyes. He took up a paper and began to read, with an
assumption of complete calmness and unconcern; but she saw that he was paler than usual, and
that his hand shook a little as he turned the pages of his Galignani. Presently she asked,
in a subdued voice, for something to drink. He brought her a glass of claret and water, and
she raised herself a little on one arm to take it from him. Suddenly she uttered a loud cry,
and fell back gasping upon her pillows.

"Mon Dieu!" she cried, "there is blood upon your cuff."

Alan looked down hastily. It was true enough: his white cuff was stained with red.

"You have killed him!" she said. "You have murdered him, you wretch, you murderer----"

"Not at all," said Walcott with the greatest composure. "Upon my word, I rather wish I had.
I think he deserved it. He has got off very easily."

"You had a meeting?" his wife shrieked, her eyes beginning to flash with rage.

"We had a meeting. It was for that purpose that I left for two hours this morning. You don't
suppose that I should let myself be struck in the face without demanding satisfaction? I have
enough French blood in my veins to think it a very natural way of settling such a quarrel----"

"Was he hurt?" she asked, without waiting for him to finish.

"Very slightly. A sword-cut on the shoulder. The seconds interposed, or we should have gone on----"

"I have no doubt you wanted to kill him! I shall denounce you to the police!"

"As you please" said her husband indifferently, taking up his paper. "But M. de Hauteville
has retired from the scene: he had a carriage waiting, and has crossed the frontier by this
time. I assure you he is perfectly safe Switzerland."

There was a taunt in his voice which exasperated his wife's temper almost to madness.

"Scélérat!" she said, in a hissing, unnatural voice. "You would have killed him if you could?
Beware of my vengeance then, for I swear that you shall suffer as he has suffered--and worse
things too!"

Alan shrugged his shoulders. He had heard threats of this kind too often to be greatly moved
by them. And Mrs. Walcott, after a few ineffectual remarks of the same sort, began to sob violently,
and finally to work herself into another hysterical fit, during which her husband coolly rang
the bell, and left her to Lisette's not very tender care.

When he returned she was once more quiet and subdued. He noticed that she was reading a letter,
which, at his entrance, she thrust--somewhat ostentatiously--beneath her pillow. He took no
notice. He was tired of taking notice. As a rule, he let her go her own way. He had been married
for three years, and he had learned that, save in exceptional circumstances, it was better
not to interfere. He was relieved, and somewhat surprised, when she suddenly declared herself
better, and wishful to leave her bed. Before long she was sitting at an open window, with a
cup of black coffee and a flask of cognac on a table before her, while Alan fanned her with
a great red fan and occasionally bathed her temples with eau-de-cologne. He paid her these
attentions with an air of gentle gravity which became him well, but the slight fold between
his brows betokened irritation and weariness.

Cora Walcott seemed to delight in keeping him at her beck and call. She did not let him stir
from her side for the whole of that sultry summer day. She put on a soft and languid manner:
she shed tears and tried to say coaxing things, which were very coldly received; for there
was a hard and evil look in her fine dark eyes that went far to neutralize the effect of her
câlineries. Once, indeed, when Alan had gone into an adjoining room to fetch a vinaigrette,
her true feeling found its vent in a few expressive words.

"Sacré," she muttered, drawing back the red lips from her white teeth, with the snarl of a
vicious dog, "how I hate you, cochon! How I wish that you were dead!"

And then she smoothed her brows, and smiled at him as he re-entered the room.

In the course of the evening she made the suggestion that they should leave Aix-les-Bains next day.

"Certainly," Alan answered, more warmly than usual. "And where shall we go?"

"Oh, to Paris, I suppose. To Dijon first, of course--if I am strong enough to travel so far."

Alan was eager to make his preparations for departure, and pleased to find that his wife was
as ready as he to hasten them. Only in one point did her behavior strike him as peculiar. She
announced that she meant to leave Aix-les-Bains at an early hour, lunch and rest at Culoz,
and go on to Dijon by the afternoon train.

"But why Culoz? Nobody stops at Culoz," he remonstrated.

"Why not Culoz? There is an inn. I suppose we can get some lunch," she answered. "Besides,
I have always meant to go there, to look at the château on the hill! You English like 'views,'
do you not? The 'view' must be magnificent."

She had never formerly shown any interest in scenery, and Alan stared at her for a moment with
a puzzled look. If Henry de Hauteville had been likely to join her at Culoz he could have understood
this whim of hers; but de Hauteville was safely lodged by this time in the nearest Swiss canton,
and not at all likely to intercept their journey. He did her bidding, however, without comprehension
of her reasons, as he had done many a time before. Again, he was discomfited by her behavior
in the train, shortly after their departure from the station at Aix-les-Bains. She suddenly
flung herself back in the corner of the coupé and burst into a prolonged fit of noisy laughter,
which seemed as if it would choke her by its violence. Alan questioned and remonstrated in
vain. Fortunately, they had the coupé to themselves; but the laughter continued so long that
he began to doubt his wife's sanity, as well as her self-control. At last she sat up and wiped
her eyes.

"You will know why I laugh some day, mon ami," she remarked. "Till then, ask no questions."

Alan was not disposed to ask them. He remained silent, and his silence continued until the
little station of Culoz was reached.

"We change here, of course," he said. "But why should we leave the station?"

"Do you want to starve me?" his wife inquired angrily. "We will go to the inn. There is an
inn on the road to the village; I asked about it yesterday."

