He was standing still while the crowd flowed past him. This time he was alone. He seemed to
be waiting, yet not to watch, as if he had already seen what he was expecting and knew that
it must pass his way. It was uncanny, his reappearance, at a second interval of her route,
standing as if he had stood there from the first, patient, expectant, motionless. It was worse
than uncanny.

All at once an idea, wild and illogical enough, jumped up in her mind. Couldn't this miserable
vehicle that was lumbering like a disabled bug move faster and rattle her on out of reach of
the glare, the publicity, the threat of discovery, and, above all, of her discomforting notion?
She breathed out relief as the carriage dipped into the comparative quiet again, and she felt
herself being driven on and up a gently rising street between block-apart, lone gas-lamps.
She thrust her face as far out of the window as she dared, looking back at the lights and traffic
which were drifting behind her. At this distance she could single out no one figure from the
crowd, and no figure which could possibly be that of the blue-eyed Chinaman was moving up the
street behind her. There only remained a disquieting memory of him on the corner with Harry.
Together they made a combination, to her mind, threatening to the man she loved, for whom she
so desperately feared.

If ever she had felt herself helpless, it was in this moment passing along the half-lit, half-empty
city street. By what she knew, by what she wore around her neck, she was separated from all
peace-abiding citizens--she was outlawed. Every closed door and shaded window (so many she
had opened or looked out of!) now seemed shut and shaded against her for ever. Night and the
reticent gray city, averting their eyes, let her slip through unregarded.

She was passing that section of large, old-fashioned mansions, cupolaed, towered, indistinct
at the top of their high, broad steps, or back among the trees of their gardens. Along the
front of one stretched a high hedge of laurestinas black as a ribbon of the night, capacious
of shadows; and it seemed to Flora that all at once a shadow detached itself. She looked with
a start. It flashed along the pavement--if shadow it were--running head down with a strange,
scattering movement of arms and legs, yet seeming to make such speed that for a moment it kept
abreast of the cab. She could see no features, no lineament of this strange thing to recognize,
yet instantly she knew what it must be--what she had feared and thought impossible. She thrust
her head far out and addressed the driver.

"Go as fast as you can, faster! and I'll give you twice what he gave you." The words rang so
wildly to her own ears that she half expected the driver to peer down like an old bird of prey
from his perch and demand her reason. But he made no sound or sign. It may have been that in
his time he had heard even wilder requests than hers. He only sent his whip cracking forward
to the ears of the lean horse, and the cab began to rattle like a mad thing.

Flora leaned back with a sigh of relief. The mere sensation of being borne along at such a
rate, the sight of houses, lamp-posts, even people here and there, flitting away from the eye,
unable to interrupt her course, or even to glimpse her identity, gave her a feeling of safety.
The more she was getting into the residence part of the city, the more deserted the streets,
the closer shut the windows of the houses, the more it seemed to her as if the night itself
covered and abetted her flight. So swiftly she went it was only a wonder how the cab held together.
She had never traveled more rapidly in her light and silent carriage. Now they whirled the
corner and plunged at the steep rise of a cross street. Just above, over the crown of the hill,
she saw the sky, moonless, blackish, spattered with stars. Then against it a little fluttering
shape like a sentinel wisp--the only living thing in sight. It was incredible, impossible,
horrible that he should be there, in front of her, waiting for her, who had driven so fast--too
fast, it had seemed, for human foot to follow. By what unimaginable route had he traveled?
She was ready to believe he had flown over the housetops. And above all other horrors, why
was he pursuing her?

The carriage was abreast the Chinaman now, and immediately he took up his trot, for a little
while keeping up, dodging along between light and shadow, presently falling behind. At intervals
she heard the patter, patter, patter of his footsteps following; at intervals she lost the
sound, and shadows would engulf the figure, and she would wait in a panic for its reappearance.
For she knew it was there somewhere, on one side of the street or the other. But, oh, not to
see it! To expect at any moment it might start up again--Heaven knew where, perhaps at her
very carriage window. Her unconscious hand was doubled to a fist upon her breast, fast closed
upon the sapphire.

With all her body braced, she leaned and looked far backward, and far forward, and now for
a long time saw nothing. The distance was empty. The glare of arc-lights showed her the shadows
of her own progress--the shadow of her vehicle shooting huge and misshapen now on the cobbles,
now along a blank wall, wheels, body and driver, all lurching like one; now heaped on each
other, now tenuously drawn out, now twisting themselves into shapes the mind could not account
for. For here, whirling the corner, the carriage seemed to wave an arm, and now between the
wheels, fast twinkling, she saw a pair of legs. She leaned and looked, so mesmerized with this
grotesque appearance that it scarcely troubled her that all the way down the last long hill
she knew it must be that a man was running at her wheel.

The warm lights of her house were just before her, offering succor, stiffening courage. It
would be but a dash from the door of the cab to her own door. There was no second course, once
the cab stopped. She felt that to lurk in its gloom would mean robbery, perhaps death. She
thought without fear, but with an intense calculation. Her hand held the door at swing as the
cab drew up. Before it should stop she must leap. She gathered her skirts and sprang--sprang
clean to the sidewalk. The steps of her house rushed by her in her upward flight. Her bell
pealed. She covered her eyes.

For the moment before Shima opened the door there was nothing but darkness and silence. She
had never been so glad of anything in her life as of the kind, astute, yellow face he presented
to her distressed appeal.

"Shima," she panted, "pay the cab; and if there's any one else there say that I'll call the
police--no, no, send him away." There was no question or hesitation in Shima's obedience. Through
the glass of the door she watched him descend upon his errand, until he disappeared over the
edge of the illumination of the vestibule. She waited, dimly aware of voices going on beyond
the curtains of the drawing-room, but all her listening power was concentrated on the silence
without--a silence that remained unbroken, and out of which Shima returned with the same imperturable
countenance.

"He wants ten dollars."

"Oh, yes, give him anything," Flora gasped. If that was all the Chinaman had followed her for!
But her relief was momentary, for instantly Shima was back again.

"I gave him ten dollars, the cabman."

Now she gasped indeed. "Oh, the cabman! But the other one!" For an instant Shima seemed to
hesitate; glancing past her shoulder as if there was something that he doubted behind her.
Then as she still hung on his answer he brought it out in a lowered voice.

"Madam, there was no one else there."

XIX

THE FACE IN THE GARDEN

With her hand at her distressed forehead she turned, and saw, between the curtains of the drawing-room,
Harry, and behind him Clara, looking out at her with faces of amazement, and she fancied, horror.
Harry came straight for her.

"Why, you poor child, what's happened to you?"

She gave him a look. She couldn't forget their scene in the red room, but the mixture of apprehension
and real concern in his face went far toward melting her. She might even have told him something,
at least a part of the truth, but for that other standing watching her from the drawing-room
door. With Clara, there was nothing for it but to ignore her disordered hair, her hat in her
hand, her ruffle torn and trailing on the floor.

She put on a splendid nonchalance, as if it were none of their business. "Oh, I am sorry if
I kept you waiting."

It was Clara who spoke to her, past Harry's blank astonishment. "Why, we don't mind waiting
a few moments more while you dress."

"I shan't have to dress." Such a statement Flora felt must amaze even Shima, waiting like an
image on the threshold of the dining-room. But if these people were waiting to be amazed she
felt herself equal to amazing them to the top of their expectations.

"Oh, but at least go up and let Marrika give you some pins," Clara protested, hurrying forward
as if fairly to drive her.

"Thank you, no, this will do," Flora said. On one point she was quite clear. She wasn't going
to leave those two together for a moment to discuss her plight; not till she could first get
at Harry alone. Then and there she turned to the mirror and with her combs began to catch back
and smooth the disorder of her hair, seeing all the while Clara's reflection hovering perturbed
and vigilant in the background of her own.

While her hands were busy seeming to accommodate Clara, her mind was marshaled to Clara's outwitting.
The only thing to do was to tell nothing. Let Clara spend her time in guessing. Unless by some
wild chance she had seen Kerr in the garden she couldn't come near the truth of what had happened.
But what was to be done with Harry? Harry was too close to her to be ignored. Her attitude
toward him had undergone a change. In the moment in the red room, when she had seen him break
the one feeling that had held her to him, the feeling of awe and respect had evaporated. She
felt that it was quite impossible now for them to go on on the same footing; yet, as long as
she kept the sapphire she must somehow manage to keep up an appearance of it. She must tell
him something.

At that dreadful dinner, where she sat a conscious frustrater of these two silent ones, glancing
at Harry's face, she knew that if she didn't attack she would be attacked by him. It was here
in the midst of the noiseless passings of Shima, watching Harry's suspicious glances flashing
across the table at her strange disorder, that the idea occurred to her of a way out of it.
She was bold enough to try a daring thrust at the mystery. If ever a hunter was to be led off
on a false scent, Harry was that one. She was amazed at the sudden, fearless impulse that had
sprung up in her. She wasn't even afraid to say to him under Clara's nose, "Harry, I want you
to myself after dinner. Come up into the garden study."

He was very willing to follow her. She thought she detected in his alacrity something more
than curiosity or concern. It seemed almost as if Harry was ashamed of that scene in the red
room, and anxious to make it up with her. He even tried before they had reached the head of
the stairs. "Oh, Flora--I say, Flora, I--"

But an explanation between them was the last thing she wanted just then. She fairly ran, leaving
him panting in the wake of her airy skirts.

For the first time since the thing began Clara was left out completely. Flora knew she was
even left out of a possibility of listening at the keyhole. For the bright, tight, little room
into which Harry followed her was approached by a square entry and a double door. The room
itself overhung the garden as a ship's deck overhangs the sea. Leather books and long red curtains
were the note of it. She and Harry had often been here together before. Harry had made love
to her here, and she had found it pleasurable enough. But the fact that she could recall it
now with distaste made this familiar surrounding seem strange, and they themselves strangest
of all.

He hadn't got his breath. He had hardly shut the door on them before she began. "Well, something
has happened." She had his attention. His other purpose was arrested. "Oh, something extraordinary.
I would have told you on the spot, only I thought you would rather Clara didn't know it."

"I?" That left him staring. "What have I to do with it?"

At this she gave him a long look. "It was through you he ever had the chance of seeing me.
I mean the blue-eyed Chinaman. He has followed me all the evening. He followed me here to the
very door." Flora's array of facts fell so fast, so hard, so pointed, that for a moment they
held him speechless in the middle of the room.

Any fleeting suspicion she might have had of his complicity in the Chinaman's pursuit vanished.
He showed plain bewilderment. For a moment he was more at sea than herself. The next she saw
the shadow of a thought so disturbing that it sharpened his ruddy face to harshness. He stepped
toward her. "What did he say to you?" He loomed directly above her, threatening.

"Nothing. He didn't say anything. But I know he followed me quite to the house, for I saw his
shadow all the way down the hill."

Harry still breathed quickly. "Where--how did he come across you?"

She'd been prepared for that question.

"I was driving down Sutter Street and he saw me at the carriage window."

Harry stood tense, poised, catching everything as she tossed it off; then as if all at once
he felt the full weight of the burden, "Lord!" he said, and let himself down heavily into a
chair. It was plain in his helpless stare that he knew exactly what it all meant. Laying her
hands on the high chair-arms, leaning down so that she could look into his face, Flora made
her thrust.

"What do you think he wants?" she gently asked. It was as if she would coax it out of him.
His answer was correspondingly low and soft.

"It's that damned ring."

She heard her secret fear spoken aloud with such assurance that she waited, certain at the
next moment Harry's voice would people the silence with all the facts that had so far escaped
her. But when, after a moment of looking before him he did speak, he went back to the beginning,
which they both knew.

"You know he didn't want to part with it in the first place."

"Yes, yes; but he did," Flora insisted.

"Well," he answered quickly, "but that was before--" He caught himself and went on with a scarcely
perceptible break: "He may have had a better offer for it since."

He couldn't have put it more mildly, and yet that temperate phrase brought back to her in a
flash a windy night full of raucous voices and the great figures in the paper that had covered
half a page--the reward for the Crew Idol. Could it be that--that sum so overwhelming to human
caution and human decency which Harry had cloaked by his grudging phrase "some better offer"?
What else could he mean? And what else could the blue-eyed Chinaman mean by his strange pursuit
of her?

"Some one must have wanted it awfully," Flora tried again, keeping step with his mild admission.

Harry covered her with an impressive stare. "There's something queer about that ring," he nodded
to her. He was going to tell her at last! She gazed at him in expectation, but presently she
realized that nothing more was coming. He had stopped at the beginning. She tried to urge him on.

"Queer, what do you mean?" She was feigning surprise.

He looked at her cautiously. "Why, you must have noticed it yourself when we were at the shop.
And now, to-night, his having followed you."

She could see him hesitate, choosing his words. She knew well enough her own fear of saying
too much--but, what was Harry afraid of? Did he suspect her feeling for Kerr? Was that why
he was holding back, leaving out, giving her the small, expurgated version of what he knew.
She tried again, making it plainer.

"You think the ring is something he ought not to have had; something that belongs somewhere else?"

He looked away from her, around the room, as if to pick up his answer from some of the corners.
"Well, anyway, it's lucky we waited about that setting," he said with quick irrelevance. "If
you're going to be annoyed in this way you'd better let me have it."

Why hadn't she thought of that! It was what any man might say, after hearing such a story as
hers, yet it was the last thing she had thought of, and the last thing she wanted.

"Oh, leave it with me," she quavered, "at least till you're sure!"

"Oh, no!" He gave his head a quick, decided shake. "If something should come out you wouldn't
want to be mixed up in it."

"Then why not give it back to the Chinaman?" she tried him.

"Oh, that's ridiculous." He was in a passion. His darkening eyes, his swelling nostrils, his
aspect so out of proportion to her mild and almost playful suggestion, frightened her. He saw
it and instantly his mood dropped to mere irritation. "Oh, Flora, don't make a scene about
it. This thing has been on my mind for days--the thought that you had the ring. I was afraid
I had no business to let you have it in the first place, and what you've told me to-night has
clean knocked me out. I don't know what I'm saying. Come, let me have it; and if there's anything
queer about the business, at least we'll get it cleared up."

But, smiling, she retreated before him.

"Why, Flora," he argued, half laughing, but still with that dry end of irritation in his voice,
"what on earth do you want to keep the thing for?"

By this time she backed against the window, and faced him. "Why, it's my engagement ring."

He looked at her. She couldn't tell whether he was readiest to laugh or rage.

"You gave it to me for that," she pleaded. "Why shouldn't I keep it, until you give me a real
reason for giving it up? If you really know anything, why don't you tell me?" She was sure
she had him there; but he burst out at last:

"Well, for a fact, I know it is stolen!" He leaned toward her; and his arms, still flung out
with the hands open as argument had left them, seemed to her frightened eyes all ready for
her, ready with his last argument, his strength.

Once before she had feared herself face to face with the same threat in the eyes and body of
another man, but here, her only fear was lest Harry should get the sapphire away from her.
His doing so would dash down no ideal of him. It was mere physical terror that made her tremble
and raise her hand to her breast. Instantly she saw how she had betrayed the sapphire again.
He had taken hold of her wrist, and, twist as she might, he held it, horribly gentle.

She pressed back against the glass until she felt it hard behind her.

"Harry," she whispered, "if you care anything, if you ever want me for yours, you'll take your
hands away." She meant it; she was sincere in that moment, for all she shrank from him. Her
body and mind would not have been too great a price to give him for the sapphire.

But these he seemed to set aside as trivial. These he expected as a matter of course; he was
going to have that other thing, too--the thing she had clung to as a man clings to life; and
that now, parting from, she would give up not without a struggle as sharp as that with which
the body gives up breath. She wrestled. He seemed all hands. He put aside her struggles, her
pleadings, as if they were thistle-down.

Then all at once she felt his arm around her neck. She couldn't move her body. She could only
turn her head from his hot breath. For a moment he held her, and yet another moment; and then,
terrified at what this strange immobility might mean, she raised her eyes and saw he was not
looking at her. Though he held her fast he was not conscious of her. Straight over her head
he looked, through the window and down, into the garden. Her eyes followed. It lay beneath,
the wonder of its morning aspect all blanched and dim. She saw the silhouette of rose branches
in black on the sky. She saw the flowers and bushes all one dull tone. But in the midst of
them the oval of the path shone white; and there, as in the afternoon, standing, looking upward,
was the dark figure of a man.

Her heart gave a great leap. Just so she'd been summoned once before that day, but what infernal
freak had fetched him back to repeat that dangerous sally, and brought him finally into his
enemy's grasp? She tried to make a gesture to warn him, and just there Harry released her,
dropped her so that she half fell upon the window-seat, and made a dash across the room for
the light. In a moment they were in darkness. In a moment, to Flora pressed against the window,
the garden sprang clear, and on the formless figure below the face appeared, white in the starlight
looking up. She cried out in wonder. It was not Kerr. It was the blue-eyed Chinaman.

After her haunted drive, after her escape, after Shima's search, he was there, still inexorably
there; small, diminished by the great façade of the house, but looking up at it with his calm
eye, surveying it, measuring its height, numbering its doors, trying its windows. Harry was
beside her again. He was tugging frantically at the window. It resisted. She saw his hands
trembling while he wrestled with it. Then it went shrieking up and he leaned out.

"What do you want?" he called, and, though he used no name, Flora saw he knew with whom he
was speaking. The Chinaman stood immobile, lifting his round, white face, whose mouth seemed
to gape a little. Harry leaned far out and lowered his voice.

"Go away, Joe! Don't come here; never come here!" There was a quiver in his voice. Anger or
apprehension, or both, whatever his passion was, for the moment it overwhelmed him, and as
the Chinaman stood unmoved, unmoving, at his commands, Harry turned sharp from the window and
dashed out of the room. Flora heard him running, running down the stairs. She hung there breathless,
waiting to see him meet the motionless figure; but while she looked and waited that motionless
figure suddenly took life. It moved, it turned, it flitted, it mixed with shadows, became a
shadow; and then there was nothing there.

Nothing was there when Harry burst out of the garden door and stood staring in the empty oval.
How distracted, how violent he looked, balked of his prey! He was stalking the garden, beating
the bushes, walking up and down. All at once he stopped and raised a white baffled face to
her window. She shrank away. She was in peril of Harry now. He knew her no longer innocent.
She had held the ring against him in the face of the fact he had told her it was stolen. And
he must guess her motive. He must suspect her now.

In her turn she ran, up and up a twisted side stair, shortest passage to her own rooms. At
least lock and key could keep her safe for the next few hours. After that she must think of
something else.

XX

FLIGHT

By five o'clock in the morning she was already moving softly to and fro, so softly as not to
rouse the sleeping Marrika. By seven her lightest bag was packed, herself was bathed, brushed,
dressed even to hat and gloves, and standing at her window with all the listening alert look
of one in a waiting-room expecting a train. She was watching for the city to begin to stir;
watching for enough traffic below in the streets to make her own movement there not too noticeable.
Yet every moment she waited she was in terror lest her fate should take violent form at last
and assail her in the moment of escape. She listened for a foot ascending to her room with
a message from Clara demanding an audience. She listened for the peal of the electric bell
under Harry's hasty hand--Harry, arrived even at this unwarranted hour with Heaven knew what
representative of law to force the sapphire from her.

But all her household was still unstirring when at last she went, soft step after step, down
the broad and polished stair and across the empty hall. She went quiet, direct, determined,
not at all as she had fled on her other perilous enterprise only yesterday. She shut the outer
door after her without a sound and with great relief breathed in the fresh and faintly smoky
air of morning.

She walked quickly. The windows of her house still overlooked her, and her greatest terror
was that some voice, some appearance, out of that house, might command her return. The street
was nearly empty. A maid scrubbing down steps looked after her sharply, and she wondered if
she had been recognized. She had no intention of keeping to this street, or even taking a car
and traveling down its broad, gray and gleaming vista of formal houses and formal gardens that
she knew and that knew her so well. It was a cross-town car bound for quite another locality
that she climbed aboard. It was filled only with mechanics and workmen with picks and shovels.
She sat crowded elbow to elbow among odors of stale tobacco, stale garlic, stale perspiration,
and looking straight before her through the car window watched the aspect of the city, still
gray, grow less gleaming and formal and finally quite dirty, and quite, quite dull.

This was all as she had intended, very much in the direction of her errand, and safe. But in
Market Street the car-line ended, and she was turned out again in this broad artery of commerce
where she was in danger of meeting at any moment people she knew. She made straight across
the thoroughfare to its south side, turned down Eighteenth and in a moment was hidden in Mission
Street.

Now really the worst danger of detection was over. She saw no reason why a woman with a small
hat and a hand-bag should not pass for a school-teacher. Indeed, the men did let her go at
that, but the women--women with shawls over their heads, and women with uncovered heads and
ear-rings in their ears, and thin, weak-eyed women with bags in their hands--the teachers themselves,
one of whom she hoped to pass for--all stared at her. It didn't matter much, she thought, whether
they thought her queer or not since they couldn't stop her.

She went, glancing at windows as she passed, looking for a place where she could go to breakfast.
She turned into the first restaurant that offered, and after a hasty glance around it to be
sure no one lurked there that might betray her she subsided into the clatter with relief. It
was one more place to let time pass in, for it would be full two hours before she could fulfil
her errand. She stayed as long as she dared, drinking two cups of the hideous coffee; stayed
while many came and went, until she felt the proprietor noticing her. That revived her consciousness
of the possible dangers still between her and the end she held in view. She had heard of people
being arrested for suspicious conduct. She didn't feel sure in what this might consist, but
surely such an appearance could be avoided by walking fast and seeming to know exactly where
one was going.

It was ten o'clock in the morning, three hours since she had left her house and a most reasonable
time of daylight, when Flora turned out of the flatness of "south of Market Street" and began
to mount a slow-rising hill. It was a wooden sidewalk she followed flanking a wood-paved street,
and these, with the wooden fences and dusty cypress hedges and the houses peering over them
upon her looked worn, battered and belonging all to the past. None the less it bore traces
of having been a dignified past, and farther up on the crown of the hill among deep-bosomed
trees, two or three large mansions wore the gravely triumphant aspect of having been brought
successfully from a past empire into a present with all their traditions and mahogany complete.
Upward toward these Flora was looking. Her breath was short from fast climbing. Her cheeks
under her thin veil were hot and bright.

As she neared the hilltop she glanced at a card from her chatelaine, consulting the address
upon it. Then anxiously she scanned the house-fronts. It was not this one, nor this; but the
square white mansion she came to now stood so far retired at the end of its lawn that she could
not make out the number. As she peered a young girl came down the steps between the dark wings
of the cypress hedge, a slim, fair, even-gaited creature dressed for the street and drawing
on her gloves. As she passed Flora made sure she had seen her before. There was something familiar
in the carriage of the girl's head and hands; something also like a pale reflection of another
presence. Pale as it was, it was enough to reassure her that this was the house she wanted.

She ascended the steps beneath the arch of cypress and immediately found herself entering an
atmosphere quieter even than that of the little street below. It was quiet with the quiet of
protectedness, as if some one brooding, vigilant care encircled it, defending it against all
inroads of violent action and thought. It had been long since any young girl had carried such
a heart of passionate hopes and fears up this mossed path between these peaceful flower-beds.

This appearance of the place began to bring before Flora the full enormity and impertinence
of her errand, but though her heart beat on her side as loud as the brass knocker upon the
door, she had no mind for turning back.

A high, cool, darkly gleaming interior, mellow with that precious tint of time which her own
house so lacked, received her. And here, as well as out of doors, all the while she sat waiting
she felt that protected peace was still the deity of the place. To Flora's eager heart time
was streaming by, but the tall clock facing her measured it out slowly. Its longest golden
finger had pointed out five minutes before the sweeping of a skirt coming down the hall brought
her to her feet.

Mrs. Herrick came in hatless, a honeysuckle leaf caught in her gray crown of hair, geraniums
in her hand. Flora had never seen her so informal and so gay.

"I would have asked you to come out into the garden, except that it's so wet, and there's no
place to sit," she said.

Flora apologized. "I knew if I came at this hour I should interrupt you, but really there was
no help for it." She glanced down at her satchel. "I had to go this morning, and before I went
I had to see you about the house. I'm going down to look at it and--and to stop a while."

Mrs. Herrick hesitated, deprecated. "But you know Mrs. Britton wasn't satisfied with the price
I asked."

"Oh," said Flora promptly, "but I shall be perfectly satisfied with it, and I want to take
possession at once."

The positive manner in which she waved Clara out of her way brought up in Mrs. Herrick's face
a faint flash of surprise; but it was gone in an instant, supplanted by her questioning puzzled
consideration of the main proposition.

"Oh, I hope you haven't come to tell me you want it changed," she protested. "You know it's
quite absurd in places--quite terrible indeed. It's 1870 straight through, and French at that;
but even such whims acquire a dignity if they've been long cherished. You couldn't put in or
take out one thing without spoiling the whole character."

"But I don't want to change it, I want it just as it is," Flora explained. "It isn't about
the house itself I've come, it's about going down there. You see there are--some people, some
friends of mine. I haven't promised them to show the house, but I have quite promised myself
to show it to them, and they are only here for a few days more. They are going immediately."
She was looking at Mrs. Herrick all the while she was telling her wretched lie, and now she
even managed to smile at her. "I thought how lovely it would be if you could go there with
me. I should like so very much to be in it first with you, to have you go over it with me and
tell me how to take care of it, as it's always been done. I should hate to do it any disrespect."

Her hostess smiled with ready answer. "Of course I will go down. I should be glad, but it must
be in a day or two. Indeed, perhaps it would be better for you to have your people first, and
I can come down, say Monday afternoon or Tuesday."

Flora faced this unexpected turn of the matter a little blankly. "Ah, but the trouble is I
can't go down alone."

It was Mrs. Herrick's turn to look blank. "But Mrs. Britton?"

"Mrs. Britton isn't going with me; she can't."

"I see." Mrs. Herrick with a long, soft scrutiny seemed to be taking in more than Flora's mere
words represented. "And you wouldn't put it off until she can?"

"I couldn't put it off a moment," Flora ended with a little breathless laugh. "I do so wish
you would come down with me this morning, for I must go, and you see I can't go alone."

Mrs. Herrick, sitting there, composed, in her cool, flowing, white and violet gown with the
red flowers in her lap, still looked at Flora inquiringly. "But aren't there some women in
your party old enough to make it possible and young enough to take pleasure in it?"

Flora shook her head. "Oh, no," she said. Her house of cards was tottering. She could not keep
up her brave smiling. She knew her distress must be plain. Indeed, as she looked at Mrs. Herrick
she saw the effect of it. Gaiety still looked at her out of that face, but the warmth, the
spontaneity were gone; and the steady eyes, if anything so aloof could be suspicious, surely
suspected her.

Her heart sank. If only she had told the truth--even so much of it as to say there was something
she could not tell. What she had said was unworthy not only of herself but of the end she was
so desperately holding out for. Now in the lucid gaze confronting her she knew all her intentions
were taking on a dubious color, stained false, like her words, under the dark cloud of her
own misrepresentation. Yet they were not false, she knew. Her motives, the end she was struggling
for, were as austere as truth itself. She could not give up without one bold stroke to clear
them of this accusation.

"Do you think there's anything queer about it?" she faltered.

"Queer?" To Flora's ears that sounded the coldest word she had ever heard. "I hardly think
I understand what you mean."

"I mean is it that you think there's more in what I'm asking of you than I have said?" The
two looked at each other and before that flat question Mrs. Herrick drew back a little in her
chair.

"I have no right to think about it at all," she said.

"Well, there is," Flora insisted. "There's a great deal more. I am sorry. I should have told
you, but I was afraid. I don't know why I was afraid of you, except that in this matter I've
grown afraid of every one. It's true that there may be people going down--at least, a person.
But it isn't, as I let you think it, a house party at all. It's for something, something that
I can't do any other way--something," she had a sudden flash of insight, "that, if I could
tell you, you would believe in, too."

Mrs. Herrick's look had faded to a mere concentrated attention. "You mean that there is something
you wish to do for whoever is going down?"

"Oh, something I must do," Flora insisted.

Mrs. Herrick considered a moment. "Why can't he do it for himself?" she threw out suddenly.

It made Flora start, but she met it gallantly. "Because he won't. I shall have to make him."

"You!" For a moment Flora knew that she was preposterous in Mrs. Herrick's eyes--and then that
she was pathetic. Her companion was looking at her with a sad sort of humor. "My dear, are
you sure that that is your responsibility?"

Flora's answering smile was faint. "It seems as strange to me as it seems absurd to you, but
I think I have done something already."

"Are you sure, or has he only let you think so? We have all at some time longed, or even thought
it was our duty, to adjust something when it would have been safer to have kept our hand off,"
Mrs. Herrick went on gently.

"Oh, safer," Flora breathed. "Oh, yes; indeed, I know. But if something had been put into your
hands without your choice; if all the life of some one that you cared about depended on you,
would you think of being safe?" Flora, leaning forward, chin in hand, with shining eyes, seemed
fairly to impart a reflection of her own passionate concentration to the woman before her.

Mrs. Herrick, so calm in her reposeful attitude, calm as the old portrait on the wall behind
her, none the less began to show a curious sparkle of excitement in her face. "If I were sure
that person's life did depend on me," she measured out her words deliberately. "But that so
seldom happens, and it is so hard to tell."

"But if you were sure, sure, sure!" Flora rang it out certainly.

Mrs. Herrick in her turn leaned forward. "Ah, even then it would depend on him. And do you
think you can make a man do otherwise than his nature?"

"You think I should fail?" Flora took it up fearlessly. "Well, if I do, at least I shall have
done my best. I shall have to have done my best or I can never forgive myself."

"I see," Mrs. Herrick sighed. "But it sounds to me a risk too great for any reward that could
come of its success." She thought. "If you could tell me more." Then, as Flora only looked
at her wistfully and silently: "Isn't there some one you can confide in? Not Mrs. Britton?"

"Clara? Oh, no; never!" Flora startled Mrs. Herrick with the passionate repudiation.

"But could not Mr. Cressy--" and with that broken sentence several things that Mrs. Herrick
had been keeping back looked out of her face.

Flora answered with a stare of misery. "I know what you must be thinking--what you can not
help thinking," she said, "that the whole thing is unheard-of--outrageous--especially for a
girl so soon to--to be--" She caught her breath with a sob, for the words she could not speak.
"But there is nothing in this disloyal to my engagement, even though I can not speak of it
to Harry Cressy; and nothing I hope to gain for myself by what I am trying to do. If I succeed
it will only mean I shall never see him--the other one--again."

Mrs. Herrick rose, in her turn beseeching. "Oh, I can't help you go into it! It is too dubious.
My dear, I know so much better than you what the end may mean."

"I know what the end may mean, and I can't keep out of it."

"But I can not go with you." There was a stern note in Mrs. Herrick's voice.

Flora looked around the room, the sunny windows, the still shadows, the tall, monotonous clock,
as if this were the last glimpse of peace and protection she would ever have. She rose and
put out her hand.

"I'm afraid I didn't quite realize how much I was asking of you. You have been very good even
to listen to me. It's right, I suppose, that I should go alone."

Mrs. Herrick looked at her in dismay. "But that is impossible!" Then, as Flora turned away,
she kept her hand. "Think, think," she urged, "how you will be misunderstood."

"Oh, I shall have to bear that--from the people who don't know."

"Yes, and even from the one for whom you are spending yourself!"

Flora gave her head a quick shake. "He understands," she said.

"My dear, he is not worth it."

Flora turned on her with anger. "You don't know what he is worth to me!"

Mrs. Herrick looked steadily at this unanswerable argument. Her hold on Flora's hand relaxed,
but she did not quite release it. Her brows drew together. "You are quite sure you must go?"

Flora nodded. She was speechless.

"Did Mrs. Britton know you were coming to me?"

"No. She doesn't even know that I am going out of town. She must not," Flora protested.

"Indeed she must. You must not place yourself in such a false position. Write her and tell
her you are going to San Mateo with me."

"Oh, if you would!" Tears sprang to Flora's eyes. "But will you, even if I can't tell you anything?"

"I shall not ask you anything. Now write her immediately. You can do it here while I am getting
ready."

She had taken authoritative command of the details of their expedition, and Flora willingly
obeyed her. She was still trembling from the stress of their interview, and she blinked back
tears before she was able to see what she was writing.

It had all been brought about more quickly and completely than she had hoped, but it was in
her mind all the while she indited her message to Clara, that Kerr, for whom it had been accomplished,
was not yet informed of the existence of the scheme, or the part of guest he was to play. Yet
she was sure that if she asked he would be promptly there. She wrote to him briefly:

     At San Mateo, at the Herricks'. I want you there to-night. I have
     made up my mind.

As she was sealing it she started at a step approaching in the hall. She had wanted to conceal
that betraying letter before Mrs. Herrick came back. She glanced quickly behind her, and saw
standing between the half-open folding doors, the slim figure of a girl--slimmer, younger even
than the one who had passed her at the gate, but like her, with the same large eyes, the same
small indeterminate chin. Just at the chin the likeness to Mrs. Herrick failed with the strength
of her last generation--but the eyes were perfect; and they gazed at Flora wondering. With
the sixth sense of youth they recognized the enactment of something strange and thrilling.

Another instant and Mrs. Herrick's presence dawned behind her daughter--and her voice--"Why,
child, what are you doing there?"--and her hands seemed apprehensive in their haste to hurry
the child away, as if, truly, in this drawing-room, for the first time, something was dangerous.

XXI

THE HOUSE OF QUIET

The day which had dawned so still and gloomy was wakening to something like wildness, threatening,
brightening, gusty, when they stepped out of the train upon the platform of the San Mateo station.
Clouds were piling gray and castle-like from the east up toward the zenith, and dark fragments
kept tearing off the edges and spinning away across the sky. But between them the bright face
of the sun flashed out with double splendor, and the thinned atmosphere made the sky seem high
and far, and all form beneath it clarified and intense.

There upon the narrow platform Mrs. Herrick hesitated a moment, looking at Flora. "What train
do you want to meet?" she asked.

Flora stood perplexed. "I hardly know. You see I can't tell how soon my letter would reach--would
be received."

"Then we would better meet them all," the elder woman decided.

They drove away into the face of the wet, fresh wind and flying drops of rain. Flora, leaning
back in the carriage, looked out through the window with quiet eyes. The spirited movement
of the sky, the racing of its shadows on the grass, the rolling foliage of the trees, seen
tempestuous against flying cloud, were alike to her consoling and inspiring. She had never
felt so free as now, driving through the fitful weather, nor so safe as with this companion
who was sitting silent by her side. She was driving away from all her complications. She was
retreating to a fresh stronghold, where her conflict would be a duel hand to hand, and where
the outside forces, which had harassed her and threatened ignobly to down her antagonist with
a stab in the back, could be held at bay.

Already she was looking toward the house which she had never seen as her own kindly castle;
and the generous opening of its gate--old granite crowned with rose of sharon--did not disappoint
her. The house was hidden in the swelling trees, but the drive winding beneath them gave glimpses
through of lawns, of roses wreathing scarletly the old gray fountain basin, of magnolia and
acacia, doubly delicate and white and fragile beneath the thunderous sky.

The house, when finally it loomed upon them, with its irregular roofs topped by curious square
turrets, with its tremendous ground floor rambling away in wings on every side, with its deep
upper and lower verandas, looked out upon by a multitude of long French windows, seemed too
large, too strangely imposing for a structure of wood. But whatever of original ugliness had
been there was hidden now under a splendid tapestry of vines, and Flora, looking up at the
rose and honeysuckle that panoplied its front, felt her throat swell for sheer delight.

For a moment after they had left the carriage they stood together in the porte-cochère, looking
around them. Then half wistfully, half humorously, Mrs. Herrick turned to Flora. "I do hope
you won't want to buy it!"

"Oh, I'm afraid I shall," Flora murmured, "that is, if--" She left her sentence hanging, as
one who would have said "if I come out of this alive," and Mrs. Herrick, with a quick start
of protection, laid her hand on Flora's arm.

"If you must," she said lightly, "if you do buy it, then at least I shall know it is in good
hands."

Flora gave her a look of gratitude, not so much for the slight kindness of her words as for
the great kindness of her attitude in thus so readily resuming the first assumption on which
her presence there had been invited. That was the house itself.

It was plain to Flora from the moment she set foot over the threshold that the house was to
be no mean ally of theirs, but Mrs. Herrick was making it help them doubly in their hard interval
of waiting. Alone together with unspoken, unspeakable things between them--things that for
mere decency or honor could not be uttered--with nothing but these to think of, nothing but
each other to look at, they must yet, in sheer desperation and suspense, have inevitably burst
out with question or confession, had not the great house been there to interpose its personality.
And the way Mrs. Herrick was making the most of that! The way immediately, even before she
had shown anything, she began to revivify the spirit of the place, as the two women stood with
their hats not yet off in the room that was to be Flora's, talking and looking out upon the lawn!

With her silences, with her expressive self as well as with her words, Mrs. Herrick was reanimating
it all the while they lunched and rested, still in the upper-rooms overlooking the garden.
And later, when they made the tour of the house, she began unwinding from her memory incidents
of its early beginnings, pieces of its intimate, personal history, as one would make a friend
familiar to another friend. And these past histories and the rooms themselves were leading
Flora away out of her anxious self, were soothing her prying apprehensions, were giving her
a detachment in the present, till what she so anticipated lay quiescent at the back of her brain.

But it was there. And now and then, when in a gust of wind the lights and shadows danced on
the dim, polished floors, it stirred; and at the sound of wheels on the drive below it leaped,
and all her fears again were in her face. At such moments the two women did look deeply at
each other, and the suspense, the premonition, hovered in Mrs. Herrick's eyes. It was as unconscious,
as involuntary, as Flora's start at the swinging of a door; but no question crossed her lips.
She let the matter as severely alone as if it had been a jewel not her own. Yet, it came to
Flora all at once that here, for the first time, she was with one to whom she could have revealed
the sapphire on her neck and yet remain unchallenged.

"Ah, you're too lovely!" she burst out at last. "It is more than I deserve that you should
take it all like this, as if there really wasn't anything." The elder lady's eyes wavered a
little at the plain words.

"I'm too deeply doubtful of it to take it any other way," she said.

"That is why I feel most guilty," Flora explained. "For dragging you into it and then--bringing
it into your house." She glanced around at the high, quiet, damasked room. "Such a thing to
happen here!"

"Ah, my dear,"--Mrs. Herrick's laugh was uncertain--"the things that have happened here--the
things that have happened and been endured and been forgotten! and see," she said, laying her
hand on one of the walls, "the peace of it now!"

Flora wondered. She seemed to feel such distances of life extending yet beyond her sight as
dwindled her, tiny and innocent.

"It isn't what happens, but the way we take it that makes the afterward," Mrs. Herrick added.

The thought of an afterward had stood very dim in Flora's mind, and even now that Mrs. Herrick's
words confronted her with it she couldn't fancy what it would be like. She couldn't imagine
her existence going on at all on the other side of failure.

"But suppose," she tremulously urged, "suppose there seemed only one way to take what had happened
to you, and that way, if it failed, would leave you no afterward at all, no peace, no courage,
nothing."

Mrs. Herrick's eyes fixed her with their deep pity and their deeper apprehension. "There are
few things so bad as that," she said slowly, "and those are the ones we must not touch."

Flora paused a moment on the brink of her last plunge. "Do you think what I am going to do
is such a thing as that?"

"Oh, my poor child, how do I know? I hope, I pray it is not!" Her fingers closed on Flora's
hand, and the girl clung to the kind grasp. It was a comfort, though it could not save her
from the real finality.

In spite of the consciousness of a friendly presence in the house her fears increased as the
afternoon waned, and her thoughts went back to what she had left behind her, and forward to
what might be coming--the one person whom she so longed for, and so dreaded to see. He might
be on his way now. He might at this moment be hurrying down the hedged lane from the station;
and when he should come, and when they two were face to face, there would be no other "next
time" for them. Everything was crystalizing, getting hard. Everything was getting too near
the end to be malleable any more. It was her last chance to make him relinquish his unworthy
purpose; perhaps his last chance to save himself from captivity. She found she hadn't a thing
left unsaid, an argument left unused. What could she do that she had not done before, except
to show him by just being here, accessible and ready to serve him at any risk, how much she
cared? Could his generosity resist that?

Beyond the fact of getting him away safe she didn't think. Beyond that nothing looked large
to her, nothing looked definite. The returning of the sapphire itself seemed simple beside
it, and the fact that her position in the matter might never be explained of no importance.

Now while every moment drew her nearer her greatest moment she grew more absent, more strained,
more restless, more intently listening, more easily starting at the lightest sound; until,
at last, when the late day touched the rooms with fiery sunset colors, her friend, watchful
of her changing mood, ready at every point to palliate circumstance, drew her out into the garden.

The wind, which had fallen with approaching evening, was only a whisper among the trees. The
greenish-white bodies of statues in the shrubbery glowed ruddy. Gathering their skirts from
the grass that glittered with the drops of the last shower, arm in arm the two women walked
down the broad central gravel drive between ribbon beds of flowers. From here numerous paths
paved with white stone went wandering under snowball trees and wild apple, losing themselves
in shrubbery. But one made a clear turn across the lawn for the rose-garden, where in the midst
a round pool of water lay like a flaming bit of the sunset sky. Among the bushes red and rose
and white, the elder woman in her black, the younger in her gown more glowing, with a veil
over her hair, walked, and, loitering, looked down into the water, seeing their faces reflected,
and, behind, the tangled brambles and the crimson sky. They did not speak, but at last their
companionship was peaceful, was perfect. The only sounds were the sleepy notes of birds and
that faint, high whisper of the tree tops on an evening that is not still.

Loud and shrill and shriller and more piercing, from the west wing of the house, overhanging
the garden, the sound reached them--an alarum that set Flora's heart to leaping. Startled apart,
they listened.

"Would that be--is that for you?"

"I think it's for me."

The words came from them simultaneously, and almost at the same instant Flora had started across
the lawn. The sight of an aproned maid coming out on the veranda and peering down the garden
set her running fleetly.

"It's a telephone for Miss Gilsey," the girl said.

"Oh, thank you," Flora panted.

She knew so well the voice she had expected at the other end of the wire that the husky, boyish
note which reached her, attenuated by distance, struck her with dismay and disappointment.

"Ella, oh, yes; yes; Ella." What was she saying? Ella was using the telephone as if it were
a cabinet for secrets.

"Clara told me you were down there," she was explaining. "I saw her this morning, yes. Well,"--and
she could hear Ella draw in her breath--"I'm so relieved! I thought you'd be, too, to know.
I was perfectly right. She was after him."

Flora faltered, "After whom?" There flashed through her mind more than one person that, by
this time, Clara might possibly be after.

"Why, after papa, of course!" Ella's injured surprise brought her back to the romance of Judge
Buller. Her voice rose in sheer bewilderment. "Well?"

Ella's voice rose triumphantly. "I got it out of her myself. I just came right out to her at
last. She seemed awfully surprised that I knew; but she owned up to it, and what do you think?
I bought her off!"

"Bought her off?" Flora cried. Each fact that Ella brought forth seemed to her more preposterous
than the last.

"Why, yes, it's too ridiculous; what do you think she wanted?"

At that question Flora's heart seemed fairly to stand still. That was the very question she
had been asking herself for days, and asking in vain.

Ella's voice was coming to her faint as a voice from another world. "She wanted that little,
little picture--that picture of the man called Farrell Wand. Don't you remember, papa mentioned
it at supper that evening at the club? Isn't it funny she remembered it all this time? Well,
she wanted it dreadfully, but Harry wanted it, too, and papa said he had promised it to Harry;
but I got it first and gave it to her." Ella's voice ended on a high note of triumph.

Flora's, if anything, rose higher in despair. "Oh, Ella!"

"Doesn't it seem ridiculous," Ella argued, "that if she really wanted him she'd give him up
for that?"

"Oh, no--I mean yes," Flora stammered. "Yes, of course! thank you, Ella, very much--very much."
The last words were hardly audible. The receiver fell jangling into its bracket, and Flora
leaned against the wall by the telephone and closed her eyes.

For a moment all she could see was Clara with that little, little picture. How well she could
remember how Clara had looked that night of the club supper!

From the moment Judge Buller had spoken of the picture, how all three of them had changed,
Clara and Kerr and Harry. Everything that had seemed so phantasmal then, everything she had
put down as a figment of her own imagination, had meant just this plain fact. All three of
them had wanted the picture. For his own reason Kerr had turned aside from the chase, but Harry
had stood with it to the last, and now, when finally the prize had been assured to him, Clara
had it!

At this moment she had it in her hand. At this moment she knew what was the aspect of the figure
in the picture, whether it showed a face, and, if a face, whose. Flora's hands opened and closed.
"Oh," she whispered to the great silence of the great house awaiting him; "where is he? Why
isn't he here?"

All those terrible things which might be happening beyond her reach processioned before her.
Had Clara already snapped the trap of the law upon Kerr? And if she hadn't yet, what could
be done to hold her off? Flora turned again to the telephone. Slowly she took down the receiver
and gave into the bright mouthpiece of the instrument the number of her own house.

Presently the voice of Shima spoke to her. Mrs. Britton had gone out to dinner.

"Tell her, Shima," Flora commanded, "tell her to come down on the earliest train." She hesitated,
then finished in a firm voice. "Tell her not to do anything until she has seen me."

Shima would tell her--but Mrs. Britton had been out all day. He did not know when she would
be back.

The words sounded ominous in Flora's ears. She turned away. Was everything to be finished just
as she had light enough to move, but before she had a chance?

The sound of spinning wheels on the drive startled her to fresh hope, and sent her hurrying
down the stair. It was the phaëton returning from the last train. Through the open door she
saw the figure of Mrs. Herrick expectant on the veranda. Then the carriage came into the porte-cochère
and passed. With a rush she reached the veranda, and stood there looking after it. She wouldn't
believe her eyes--she couldn't--that it had returned again empty.

Mrs. Herrick's voice was asking her, "What shall we do? Shall we serve dinner now, or wait
a little longer?"

"Oh, it's no use," Flora murmured, "he won't come to-night. He'll never come." She drooped
against the tall porch pillar.

"My poor child!" Mrs. Herrick took her passive hand. If she read in the profound discouragement
of Flora's face that something more had transpired than a mere non-appearance, she did not
show it, but waited, alert and quiet, while they gazed together out over the darkening garden.

It was the time of twilight when the sky is so much brighter than the earth. Across the lawns
between the bushes from hedge to hedge the veil of the obscuring light was coming in; and through
it the avenue of willows marched darkly. Their leaves moved a little. Flora watched the ripple
of their tops, clear on the bright sky, and deeper down among mysterious branches there was
a sense of movement where the eyes could not see. There was a curious flick, flick, flicker--a
progression, a passing from the far dark end of the willow avenue toward where it met the vista
of the drive. Flora's eyes, absently, involuntarily, followed the movement. She felt Mrs. Herrick's
hand suddenly close on hers.

"Is some one coming?"

They clung to each other, peering timorously down the drive. A little gust of wind took the
garden, and before the trees had ceased to tremble and whiten a man had emerged from their
shadow and was advancing upon them up the middle of the drive.

Flora's heart leaped at sight of him. All her impulse was to fly to meet him, but she felt
Mrs. Herrick's hand tighten upon her wrist as if it divined her madness.

His light stick aswing in his hand, his step free and incautious as ever, gray and slender
and seeming to look more at the ground than at them, the two women watched him drawing near.
His was the seeming of a quiet guest at the quietest of house parties. To meet him Flora saw
she must meet him on the high ground of his reserve. As he came under the light of the porte-cochère
his look, his greeting, his hand, were first for Mrs. Herrick.

"We were afraid we had missed you altogether," said she.

"It was I who somehow missed your carriage, was hardly expecting to be expected at such an hour."

Flora watched them meeting each other so gallantly with a trembling compunction. Mrs. Herrick,
who trusted her, was giving her hand in sublime ignorance. It was vain that Flora told herself
she had given warning. She knew she had thrown the softening veil of her spiritual crisis over
the ugly material fact. Had she said, "I want you to uphold me while I meet a thief whom I
love and wish to protect. He's magnificent in all other ways except for this one obsession,"
she knew Mrs. Herrick simply would have cried, "Impossible, outrageous!" Yet there they stood
together, and as Flora looked at them she could not have told which was of the finer temper.
Kerr's bearing was so unruffled that it seemed as if he had flown too high to feel the storm
Flora was passing through. But when he turned toward her, in spite of himself, there was eagerness
in his manner. He looked questioningly at her, as if no time had intervened, as if a moment
before he had said to her through the carriage window, "I will give you twenty-four hours,"
and now her time had come to speak.

Only the thought that time was crowding him into a bag's end gave her courage to vow she would
speak that night. Yet not now, while they stood just met in the deepening dusk, in the sweet
breath of the early flowers; nor later when they passed in friendly fashion, the three of them,
through fairy labyrinths of arch and mirror, into the long, high, glistening room, whose round
table, spread, seemed dwarfed to mushroom height; nor yet, while this semblance of companionship
was between them, and the great proportions of the place lifting oppression, left them as unconscious
of walls and roof as though they were met in the open. The clock twice marked the passing hour.
She had never heard Mrs. Herrick speak so flowingly nor Kerr listen so well, placing his questions
nicely to draw out the thread of her theme. Yet Flora guessed his thought must be fixed on
their approaching moment, as hers was--on the moment when they should be ready to quit the
table and Mrs. Herrick would leave them to themselves.

It was the appearance of the aproned maid that broke their unity. The last course was on the
table, the last taste of its pungent fruit essence on their tongues--and what was the girl's
errand now? The eye of her mistress was inquiring.

"Some one has come, Mrs. Herrick." The woman's proper formula seemed to fail her. She looked
as if she had been frightened.

"Some one?" Mrs. Herrick showed asperity. "What name?"

"He is coming in." As she spoke the girl shrank a little to one side.

With his long coat open, hanging from the armpits, with ruffled hair, and lips apart, and from
breathlessness a little smiling, Harry appeared in the doorway. Kerr leaned forward. Mrs. Herrick
did not move. She was facing the last arrival and she was smiling more flexibly, more naturally,
than Harry; but it was Flora who found the first word.

"You! I--I thought it was Clara." She was struggling for nonchalance, for poise, at this worst
blow, so unexpected.

"Clara won't be down," Harry said, advancing. "How d'ye do, Mrs. Herrick? How d'ye do, Kerr?"

"How d'ye do?" said the Englishman, without rising.

Flora gripped the arms of her chair to keep from springing up in sheer nervous terror. A possible
purpose in Harry's coming, that even Mrs. Herrick's presence would not defer, shot through
her mind. Was he alone? Or were there others--men here for a fearful purpose--waiting beyond
in the hall? But Harry had turned his back upon the door behind him with a finality that declared
whatever danger had come into the house was complete in his presence.

"I've dined, thanks," he said, but, stripping off his greatcoat, accepted a chair and the glass
of cordial Mrs. Herrick offered him. The ruddy, hard quality of his face, were it divested
of its present smile, Flora thought, might well have frightened the maid; but, for all that,
it was not so implacable as Kerr's face confronting it. The look with which he met the intrusion
had a quality more bitter than the challenge of an antagonist, more jealous than a mere lover's;
and that bitterness, that jealousy which was between them came out stingingly through their
small pleasantness. It could not be, Flora thought in terror, that Mrs. Herrick intended to
leave these two enemies to each other! Mrs. Herrick had risen; and Flora, following, saw both
men, also uprisen, hang hesitatingly, as if unready to be deserted; yet with well-filled glasses,
and newly smoking tobacco, both were caught.

Then Kerr, with a quick dash of his hand, picked up his glass. "Let us be Continental," he
begged, and followed close at Flora's side. Without moving his lips Kerr was speaking. "What
does this mean?"

She sensed the anger in his smothered voice, but she dared not look at him.

"I have no idea; but I will see you."

"When?"

Her answer leaped to her mind and her lips at the same moment.

"In the rotunda when the house is quiet."

Harry had followed leisurely in their wake. The flush of haste had subsided in his face, and
when the four regrouped themselves in the high, darkly-paneled room, among the low lights,
Flora remarked his extraordinary composure. Bitter he might be; but all the nervousness, suspicion,
uneasiness, that he had shown of late had vanished. There was a tremendous confidence about
him, the confidence of the player who holds cards that must win the game, and sits back waiting
for his moment.

But she was ready to laugh at him in his security. He had underestimated his opponent. In spite
of him she was to have her meeting with Kerr! Harry had waited too long to prevent that, whatever
he might do afterward. In this inspired moment she felt herself touching conquering heights
which before she had only touched in imagination. She felt enough power in herself to move
even such a mountain of obstinacy as Kerr. She stole a look at him--a look of glad intelligence.
He understood as if she had spoken. They were to meet, while all the house slept fast, to meet
for his great renunciation. Then, in the morning, when Harry was ready with whatever move he
was holding back, Kerr would be gone. There would be no Kerr--but she must not think of that!
She glanced at him again in the thick of the talk, and caught his eye upon her, puzzled, and,
she thought, with a glimmer of doubt.

She smiled; and smiled again at the ease with which she reassured him, merely by looking at
him. He should see, in the end, how true she could be!

He was talking tremendously, flinging off fireworks of words, but she was curiously aware that
Mrs. Herrick and Harry were looking more at her than at Kerr. She felt herself the dominant
spirit. She saw them acknowledge it, swept along by the high tide of her mood that was rising
to meet her great decisive moment. Yet on the surface the strong pulse of it appeared as ripples--words,
smiles, gay gestures, laughter--rising like the last bubble on a wave's crest. She was not
consciously acting; she was inspired by the power of what she concealed and must conceal. And
when she left them it was like a triumphant exit; almost it seemed to her as if she might hear
their applause following her.

In the room where, some eight hours before, she and Mrs. Herrick had talked, Flora waited,
fully dressed. It had been early when they had separated. The strain of the four together had
been terrific; and she was still feeling it, though an hour had passed. She was feeling that,
now her situation was upon her, she was alone. Mrs. Herrick could only be near her, not with
her, and Kerr was still an unknown quantity--except that he was fire.

And there was Harry, with his terrible certainty, and no apparent thing to account for it.
It could not be there were men in the house without the servants remarking it; but in the garden?
She peered out upon it. Only tree shadows moved upon the lawn. Nothing glimmered in the walks
or drives. The solitude held her like an enchantment. She listened for the small sounds in
the house to cease, for the lights in the lower story to go out, proclaiming all the servants
were in bed. Even after the stillness she waited--waited to be sure it was the long stillness.

Finally she crept to the door and opened it boldly wide.

She stood where she was upon the threshold trembling in a cruel fright. A gas-jet burning far
up at the end of the hall, threw a dim light down the pale, pinkish, naked vista, void of furniture,
window or curtain; and, leaning against the blank wall almost opposite her door, and directly
facing her, was Harry.

Without speaking they looked at each other. He was fully dressed, but lacking his shoes, as
she noted in the acuteness of her startled senses. The furtive suggestion of those shoeless
feet struck her with horror--formless, unreasoning. It was like an evil dream to find him there,
stolen to her door in the night, waiting outside it without a sound, looking her steadily,
hardily in the eye without a word.

She tried to speak, but, with terror sobbing in her throat, the words failed. She made a step
forward with a crazy impulse to rush past him.

He straightened, with a quick movement toward her. She recoiled before him, precipitately retreated,
closed the door, shot the bolt, and leaned, for faintness, against the wall. She expected each
moment to hear him tap. She neither heard a knock nor the sound of soft, departing feet. He
was still there! He was on guard! He had had good reason for his terrible certainty! He had
foreseen what her plan might be, and she knew he would no more let her get past him down the
hall than the turnkey will let the wretched prisoner escape.

The last flicker of her courage died at that thought. All her fine exultation was beaten out
by the fact of the brute force outside her door. She could not get to Kerr now. Cowering behind
her door she could only fancy him waiting for her in the rotunda while the moments lengthened
into hours, each moment distrusting her more.

XXII

CLARA'S MARKET

All night she sat awake huddled under her greatcoat in the chilly darkness. She could not lie
down, she could not close her eyes. At long intervals she heard the tread of unshod feet along
the hall, and then she held her breath lest at her slightest stir they approach her door. Why,
since he wanted the sapphire, hadn't he tried to get it from her when he had had her unawares,
upon her threshold with the house asleep? It began to seem to her as if he were waiting, as
if he were forced to wait, for some appointed moment. She knew if it were his moment it would
be hers, too, as long as she had the sapphire upon her. She recalled fearfully the moment when
she had crouched against the window with her hand protecting the jewel, and Harry's hand grasping
her wrist. He would know well enough where to find it now. Oh, the restless unconcealable thing!
Where could she hide it?

She took the pear-shaped pouch that swung always before her on her long gold chain. She had
repudiated that hiding-place before, but now the more obvious the better--now that both men
supposed she carried the jewel far hidden out of sight. Without moving from the bed where she
was crouched, cramped and cold, she made the exchange, leaving the chain still around her neck,
dropping the jewel into the pouch, where it would swing free, so carelessly dangling as to
be beyond suspicion, but never beyond the reach of her hand.

It was a pale, splendid dawning full of clouds when she feel asleep.

Broad sunlight filled her room when she was awakened by a knocking at her door. She sprang
from the bed and went to it. She was not to be come in upon by any unwelcome visitor. But it
was Mrs. Herrick; and Flora, with a murmur of relief, since this was the one person she did
want to see, drew her inside.

"Why, my child, you haven't slept, at least not properly." Mrs. Herrick herself looked anxious
and weary. "I've come to tell you that Mrs. Britton is here. She came an hour ago."

"Where is she?"

"In the breakfast-room with Mr. Cressy."

"Oh," Flora cried, "you know I didn't expect them. I didn't want them. It wasn't for them I
asked you to come."

"But can't you tell me what it is you're afraid of?" the other urged. "Between us can't we
prevent it? Is there nothing I can do to help you?"

"Ah, if you knew how much you have already helped me by just being here."

Her companion laughed a little. "Can't I do something more active than that?"

Flora pondered. "Where is Mr. Kerr?"

"In the garden, in the willow walk."

"Do you think you can manage that the others don't get at him?"

"I can; if he doesn't want to get at them," Mrs. Herrick replied. "Against a man like that,
my dear," she aimed it gravely at Flora, "one can do nothing."

But Flora had no answer for the warning. "I must see Clara immediately," she said.

"But not without breakfast," Mrs. Herrick protested. "I will send you up something. Remember
that she never abuses herself, so she's always fresh--and so she's always equal to the occasion."

Mrs. Herrick went. Flora looked into the mirror. Almost for the first time in ten days she
thought of her appearance. If it was, as Mrs. Herrick said, a factor of success, something
must be done for it, for it was dreadful. The best she could do revived a pale replica of the
vivid creature who had been wont to regard her from her glass. Yet her black gown, thin and
trailing far behind her, and her hair wound high, by very force of their contrasted color gave
her a real brilliance as they gave her a seeming height. But she descended to the breakfast-room
with trepidation, and stood a full minute before the door gathering courage to go in.

When she did open it, it was so suddenly that both occupants faced her with a start. They were
standing close together, and between them, on the glare of the white table-cloth, lay a little
heap of gold. As they peered at her she saw that both were highly excited, but in Clara it
showed like a cold sparkle; in Harry it gloomed like a menace. His hand hovered, clenched,
above the money in a panic of irresolution; then, as if with an involuntary relax of nerves,
opened and let fall one last piece of gold. Like a flash the whole disappeared in a sweep of
Clara's hand. It passed before Flora's eyes like a prestidigitator's trick, so rapid as to
seem unreal, and left her staring. Harry gave Clara a look, half suspicious, half entreating;
and then, to Flora's astonishment, turned away without a word to either of them.

Clara stood still, even after the door had closed upon Harry, and oddly, and rather horridly,
she wore the same aspect she had worn the day when she had looked intently and absorbedly upon
the rifled contents of Flora's room.

"Good morning," she said, and, pushing up her little misty veil, sat down with her back to
the deserted breakfast table, and waited meekly, like one who has been summoned.

"I am very glad you've come," Flora said. Her wits were still all a-flutter from the appearance
of that little heap of gold. She came forward and stood in Harry's place. She was face to face
with the person and the question, but before the great import of it, and before the marble
front of Clara's patience, she felt helpless. There was silence in the room, perfect silence
in the garden; but moving along the hedged walk all at once she saw the flutter of Mrs. Herrick's
gown, and then in profile Kerr beside her. The sight of him gave her her proper inspiration.
She turned upon Clara.

"What are you going to do with the picture of Farrell Wand?"

For the first time she saw Clara startled. Her lips parted, and the breath that came and went
between them was audible. But she was herself again before she spoke. "Do with it? Why I don't
know." Her fingers drummed the table.

"Whatever you do," Flora began, "please, oh, please don't do anything immediately."

Clara's eyebrows rose like graceful swallows. "You seem to anticipate pretty clearly what I
am going to do."

"I suppose you're going to do what any one would who had a clue, and could bring a person to
justice," Flora candidly responded. "But if ever I have made anything easy for you, Clara,
won't you this time make it easy for me? I'm not asking you to give up the picture, I'm only
asking you to wait."

Clara nodded toward the window, through which Kerr could still be seen with Mrs. Herrick. "On
account of him?"

"On account of him."

For the first time Clara smiled. It crept out upon her face, as it were involuntarily, but
she sat there smiling in contemplation for quite ten seconds. At last, "You want me to suppress
my information? My dear Flora, don't you think you want me to do more than is honest?"

"Honest!" Flora cried. The words sounded hideous to her on Clara's tongue; and yet what right
had she, she thought with shame, to judge of Clara's honesty when she herself was leagued with
a thief? "Clara," she said humbly, before this upholder of the right, "I can't pretend I'm
not suppressing things. I've only asked you to see me before you do anything more. Now, you've
come. Will you tell me one thing--did you bring the picture with you?"

Clara weighed it. "Well, if I did--"

This was the considering Clara, and Flora realized whatever she could expect from her she couldn't
expect mercy. It was another thing she must appeal to.

"Clara," she urged, "wait three days, and you shall have the whole of it. You have only the
picture now. You shall have the jewel, too. Then you can get the reward and still be--honest."

She let the word fall into the silence fearfully, as if she were afraid Clara might detect
its sneer. But this time Clara neither smiled nor frowned.

"It isn't the reward I'm thinking about. That's really very little, considering."

"Twenty thousand dollars!"

"Would that be much to you?"

"No," Flora admitted; "at least I mean I could pay it."

"Well, then," Clara triumphed, "why, the picture alone, if it's worth anything, is worth more
than that." With a bird-like lifting of the head she gave a sidelong interrogative glance.

Flora, for a moment, steadily returned the look. It was coming over her what Clara meant; a
meaning so simple it was absurd she had not thought of it before--so hateful that it was all
she could do to face it. She felt a tightness in her throat that was not tears. Shame and anger
contended in her. Oh, for the power to have refused that shameful bargain--to have scorned
it! She turned away. She closed her eyes. In her mind she saw the figure of Kerr moving quietly
about the winding walks with Mrs. Herrick. She faced sharply about. "What is it worth to you?"

Clara put her off with the last sweet meekness of her cleverness. "Whatever it's worth to you--and
him."

Flora was in command of herself now. "There are some things I can not set a price on. If this
is what you have come down for, we are simply waiting for you to name it." She looked over
Clara's head. She had stood abashed when Clara had put on the majesty of right, but now it
was Clara herself who was abashed, not at the thing itself, but at the fact of having to utter
it. She sat grasping one of her gloves in her doubled fist; and, leaning forward, with her
eyes like jewels in her little pale face and the white aura of her veil, waited as if she thought
that by some silent agency of understanding Flora would presently take up a pen and write the
desired figure in her check-book.

But Flora stood inexorable, straight and black, crowned with her helmet of gleaming hair; and,
with her hands behind her, looked over Clara's head through the window into the garden. She
would not help Clara gloss over this ugly fact.

A curious grimace distorted Clara's features, as if with an effort she gulped something bitter,
and then into the silence her voice fell--a gasp, a breath--"Fifty thousand."

All sums had become the same to Flora, even her year's income. As if she were verily afraid
Clara might take it back, she turned precipitately to a writing-table. But Clara had risen,
and though still pale, in a measure she seemed to have recovered herself.

"Wait. I can't give it to you now. I will meet you here in two hours and bring the picture.
You can let me have it then."

"Oh, two hours!" Flora objected.

But Clara was firm. "No, I can't bring it sooner. It will make no difference in your affair."
She was panting in her excitement. "In two hours you shall have the picture here. I promise you."

Flora wondered. Depth below depth! She could never seem to get to the bottom of this business.
There was only one thing she could count on, and that was Clara's impeccable honor in living
up to a bargain. Flora sealed that bargain now. She held out her fluttering slip of paper,
still wet with ink.

"Very well, in two hours--but take this now. I would rather you did."

Clara reached the tips of her fingers, touched the paper--and then it was no longer in Flora's
hand, and Clara was walking from her across the room.

XXIII

TOUCHE

Left alone, Flora glanced rapidly around her. Now for a sally, now for a dash straight for
Kerr. The shortest way was what she wanted. Opening doors lately had led to too many surprises.
She pushed aside the long curtains and stepped out through the French window upon the veranda.
Rapidly her eyes swept the garden. Far down between the gray, slim branches of willows at last
she made out the flutter of a skirt. She sighed relief to think Mrs. Herrick still at her post,
and began to hurry down the broad unshaded drive. Her steps sounded loud on the gravel, and
presently to her excited ears they sounded double. Then she realized the truth. Some one else
was walking behind her. She thought by not looking over her shoulder she could avoid stopping;
but in a moment Harry's voice hailed her. It was still far enough behind for her to hope she
could ignore it. She swept on as if she had not heard. Once around the turn of the drive, she
would be in sight of succor. She could trust to Mrs. Herrick to manage Harry. She made a little
rush around the loop and looked down the long vista of the willows.

A hundred yards distant she saw the two standing. Kerr presented his back, and with his head
a little canted forward seemed to listen, absorbed in his companion. But that companion was
a smaller figure than Mrs. Herrick, and her veil made an aura of filmy white around her face.
The sight of her was enough to stop Flora short, and in that instant Harry, making a cut across
the flower-beds, caught up with her. He stopped as abruptly as she, and gazed with a dismay
that surpassed her own. For an instant she thought he was about to make a dash down the walk
for them. Then he caught Flora's hand and pulled her back. There was no help for it, she thought.
Her other hand crept downward stealthily and gathered up her swinging pouch of gold. Trembling,
she let him drag her back, but when they faced each other behind the plumes and swords of a
great pampas clump she was shocked at the emotion in his face; and as if what he had just seen
had given the last touch, his voice had risen a key, and between every half-dozen words it
broke for breath.

"Look here, Flora," he began; "I know you've been trying to give me the slip ever since night
before last. I frightened you then. I didn't mean to, but you had no business to keep the ring
after what I told you. No, I'm not going to touch you," as she shrank back against the pampas
swords, "but I want you to give it to me, yourself, right here and now."

She looked up into his face, burning fiery in the sun beating down on his bare head. "No, no,
Harry; I shan't give it to you. Last time I said I would give it to you for a good reason,
but now I wouldn't give it to you for anything."

"You don't know what you're doing," he cried.

"I do; I know as well as you that this is a part of the Crew Idol. I've known it all along,
and when the time comes I'm going to give it myself to Mr. Purdie, but not until that time."

Harry passed his hand over his face with an inarticulate sound. Then, "You will ruin us!" he
choked.

"I shall tell the truth, whatever comes," she exulted. To tell the truth and keep on telling
it--that, in her passion of relief at speaking out at last, was all she wanted! But Harry fell
back. He changed countenance. He recovered himself.

"Look here, Flora; if you do I'm going to leave you. I'm going to leave you to what you've chosen."

She met it steadily. "I'm glad you say so. I've been thinking for days that it would be better so."

"Have you?" he said in a low voice, looking at her earnestly. "Of course, I know the reason
of that. I meant it to be different, but now there's no help. I--"

With a motion too quick for her to escape he stooped and kissed her lightly. To that moment
she had pitied him, but his touch she loathed. She thrust him away with both hands. He turned.
Without speaking, without looking at her again he walked away. She watched him with a desperate
feeling of being abandoned, of losing something powerful and valuable. The faint, thin screech
of a locomotive from a station far down the line made him pause, and turn, and gaze under his
hand in the strong sun. So for a moment she saw him, a lowering, peering figure moving away
from her over the lawn between broad flower-beds. Then he disappeared among the shrubbery.

This encounter, that had stopped her in full open field, had not been the fatal thing she had
feared. It had been a peril met that nerved her to a higher courage. Now she could walk gallantly
to the most uncertain moment of her life. Between the glimmering willows down the long still
avenue she passed, her flowing draperies borne backwards as by triumphant airs. The wind of
her approach seemed to reach the two still far in front of her.

They turned and watched her drawing nearer, and before she had quite reached them Kerr stretched
out his hand as if to help her over a last rough place, and drew her toward him and held her
beside him with his fingers lightly clasped around her wrist. She saw that he looked pale,
worn, as he had not been last night, and, what struck her most strangely, angry. The hand that
held hers shook with the violent pulse that was beating in it. He turned to Clara.

"Will you pardon us, Mrs. Britton?" Then after another patient moment, "Miss Gilsey has something
to say to me." Still he made no motion to move away, and at last Clara seemed to understand
what was expected of her. She flushed, and in the middle of that color her eyes flashed double
steel. For the first time in Flora's memory she was at a loss. She passed them without a word.

Kerr looked after the little brilliant figure, moving daintily away through sun and shadow,
with deep disgust in his face. But when he turned to Flora disgust lifted to high severity.
It was she who appeared the guilty one, and he the accuser.

"Why didn't you come, last night?"

"I couldn't. He was there, Harry, outside my door."

"In God's name! What did you tell him?"

"Nothing. We did not speak--but I couldn't get past him!" The suspicion in his face was more
than she could bear. "You must believe me--for, if you don't, we're both lost!"

He had her by both wrists, now, and gently made her face him. "I have believed in you to the
extent of coming alone to a place I know nothing of, because you wanted me. Now that I am here,
what is it you have to say to me?"

"Oh, nothing more than I have said before," she pleaded; "only that, ten times more earnestly."

"You extraordinary child!" At first, he was pure amazement. "You've brought me so far, you've
come so far yourself--you've got us both here in such danger, to tell me only this? How could
you be so mad--so cruel?"

She had locked her hands in front of her until the nails showed white with the pressure. "It
was more dangerous there than here. You don't know what has happened since I saw you. And I
thought if you and I could only be alone together, without the fear of them always between
us, I could show you, I could persuade you--" Before his look she broke down. "Well--you see,
they followed us--they're here."

"Grant it, they are." He seemed to laugh at them. "You have still your chance. Give everything
to me and I can save you still."

"'Save me?' Oh, nothing could happen to me so terrible as having you break my heart like this!
If I should give the sapphire to you I should lose you--even the thought of you--for ever.
Nothing could ever be right with us again! Won't you--" she pleaded, "won't you go?" and lifting
her hands, taking his face between them, "Won't you, because I love you?"

He stood steady to this assault, and smiled down upon her. "Without you and without it I will
not budge. Come now, this is the end. I never meant to do another thing."

She covered her face with her hands.

"Come, come." His voice was urging her, now very gentle. "It's more for your sake than for
the jewel now." And his arm around her shoulders was gently forcing her to walk beside him
not toward the drive, but away into the tree-grown sheltered wing of the garden. By interlacing
paths, from the tremulous gray willows under the somber, clashing eucalyptus spears, under
dark wings of cypress they were moving. She was bracing in every nerve against the unnerving
of his presence.

It had been always so. Even across the distance of a room the mere sight of him had had for
her the power to summon those wild spirits of the soul and body that turn reason to a vapor.
And now so close, with his arm around her, that same power she had felt when she saw him first,
the power that had made her come out and be herself then, the power that had overwhelmed her
in the little restaurant, was leagued against her again to make her do this one more thing,
which she wouldn't do. Never, never! Despairing, she wondered that such an evil motive could
have such strength.

"Where have you got it now?" she heard him asking, and she pointed downward toward where the
pouch at her knee was swinging to and fro. "Take it up, then," and like a hypnotized creature
she gathered it into her hand. But, once she had it, she held it clenched against him.

"You're going to give it to me," he prompted, "aren't you?--aren't you?" and looking steadily
in her face his hand shut softly on her wrist, and held out her clenched hand in front of her.
And still they walked, slowly. Like a pendulum the long gold chain swung from her clenched
fingers. To the tree-top birds they seemed as quiet as two lovers speaking of their wedding-day.
She felt her tension give way in this quiet--her hand relax.

"Dearest." The word brought up her eyes to his with a start of tenderness. "Open it," he said,
and her hand, involuntarily, sprung the pouch wide. They stared together into it. The little
hollow golden shell was empty.

For a moment it held her incredulous. Then, faint and sick, all the foundations of her faith
reeling, she slowly raised her eyes to him in accusation. She was not ready for the terrible
sternness in his.

"Have you lied to me?" he asked in a low voice. "Have you given it to Cressy?"

"No, no, no!" she cried in horror. "It was there! I put it there myself this morning!" They
looked at each other now equally sincere and aghast.

"But you have seen him; you've been near him?" he demanded.

She gasped out the whole truth. "This morning! He left me. He kissed me."

"Then, my God, where is he?" He gave a wide glance around him. Then raising his voice, "Stay
where you are!" he commanded, and began to run from her through the trees.

She stood with her hand to her breast, with the empty pouch spinning in front of her, hearing
him crashing in the shrubbery. Then, in sudden panic at finding herself alone, she fled back
down the willow avenue, and burst out on the broad drive in full view of the house.

Kerr was not in sight, but there was a tremor of disturbance where all had been still. Clara's
face appeared at one of the upper windows and looked down into the garden. Then Mrs. Herrick
came down the stairs, and, showing an anxious profile as she passed the door, hurried away
along the lower hall. There was a flutter in the servants' quarter, and from a side door the
coachman appeared hatless, in his shirt sleeves, and ran toward the stable. All the people
of the house seemed to be running to and fro, but she didn't see Harry. This struck her with
unreasoning terror. She fled up the drive, and Clara's small face at the window watched her.

As she came into the hall she heard Kerr's voice. He was at the telephone speaking names she
had never heard in sentences whose meaning was too much for her stunned senses to take in;
but none the less while she listened the feeling crept over her that there was some strange
revolution taking place in him. It might be transformation; it might be only a swift increase
of his original power. Whatever it was, he seemed to her superhuman. The house was full of
him--full of his rapid movement, his ringing orders. If he knew that the sapphire was gone,
what was the meaning of this bold command? Was he, knowing all lost, plunging gallantly into
the clutches of his enemies? Or was this only a blind, a splendid piece of effrontery to cover
his too long delayed retreat? She sat like a jointless thing on the fauteuil in the large hall,
and all at once saw him in front of her.

She looked at his hat, his overcoat, his slim, glittering stick--all symbols of departure.

"Wait here," he said, and turned away.

She watched his shadow dance across the flagging, and as it slipped over the threshold she
thought dully that now the sapphire was gone every one was going from her.

XXIV

THE COMIC MASK

She listened to the sound of wheels, first rattling loud on the gravel, slowly growing fainter.
Then stillness was with her again, and inanition. She looked around and up, and had no start
at seeing Clara's small face watching her over the gallery of the rotunda. It seemed to her
that appearance was natural to her existence now, like her shadow. She looked away. When she
raised her eyes again Clara was coming down the stairs, and even at that distance Flora saw
she carried something in her hand--something flat and small and wrapped in a filmy bit of paper.

Out of the chaos of her feeling rose the solitary thought--the picture which she had bought
that morning, the picture of Farrell Wand. She watched it drawing near her with wonder. She
sat up trembling. She had a great longing and a horror to tear away the filmy paper and see
Kerr at last brutally revealed. She could not have told afterward whether Clara spoke to her.
She was conscious of her pausing; conscious of the faint rustle of her skirt passing; conscious,
finally, that the small swathed square was in her hand.

She tore the tissue paper through. She held a photograph, a mounted kodak print. She made out
the background to be sky and water and the rail of a ship with silhouettes of heads and shoulders,
a jungle of black; and in the middle distance caught in full motion the single figure of a
man, back turned and head in profile. He was moving from her out of the picture, and with the
first look she knew it was not Kerr.

Her first thought was that there had been a trick played on her! But no--across the bottom
of the picture, in Judge Buller's full round hand, was written, "Farrell Wand boarding the
Loch Ettive." She held it high to the light. Clara had been faithful to her bargain. It was
the picture that had deceived her. She studied it with passionate earnestness. She did not
know the bearded profile; but in the burly shoulders, in the set and swing of the body in motion,
more than all in the lowering, peering aspect of the whole figure, she began to see a familiar
something. She held it away from her by both thin edges, and that aspect swelled and swelled
in her startled eyes, until suddenly the figure in the picture seemed to be moving from her,
not up a gang-plank, but through a glare of sun over grass between broad beds of flowers.

She was faint. She was going to fall. She caught at the chair to save herself, and still she
was dropping down, down, into a gulf of spinning darkness. "Oh, Harry!" she whispered, and
let her head roll back against the arm of the fauteuil.

With a dim sense of rising through immeasurable distances back to light she opened her eyes.
She saw Mrs. Herrick's face, and as this was connected in her mind with protection she smiled.

"Do you feel better?" Mrs. Herrick asked her. Then she opened her eyes wide and saw the walls
and the high-arched ceiling of the hall directly above her, knew herself lying on the floor,
saw above her the figure of Clara standing with a bottle of salts, and then remembered; and,
with a moan, buried her face in Mrs. Herrick's lap. "Oh, no, no, no; don't bring me back; I
don't want to come back!"

Their voices sounding high above her were speaking. Mrs. Herrick said: "What is that?" Then
Clara murmured. Then there was the light rustling of paper. Flora moved her hand.

"Give it to me; I want it." She felt the stiff little square of cardboard between her fingers,
and closed them around it fast.

After a little she went up-stairs holding tight to the baluster with one hand and to Mrs. Herrick
with the other. After a little of sitting on the edge of her bed she lay down, still holding
to Mrs. Herrick. She felt as though some cord within her had been drawn tight, too tight to
endure, and every moment she hoped it would snap and set her free.

"You don't think I'm mad, do you?" she asked. Her friend earnestly disclaimed it. "Then things
are," Flora said, "everything. Oh, oh!" The memory overwhelmed her. "He took me there as if
by chance! He gave the sapphire to me for my engagement ring. Oh, dreadful! Oh, poor Harry!"

All that afternoon and all night she slept fitfully, starting up at intervals, trembling at
nameless horrors--the glittering goldsmith's shop, the Chinaman, the great eye of the sapphire,
and, worst of all, Harry's face, always the same calm, ruddy, good-natured, innocent-looking
face that had led her to the goldsmith's shop, that had smiled at her, falling under the spell
of the sapphire, that had covered, all those days, God knew what ravages of stress and strain,
until the man had finally broken. That face appeared and reappeared through the flashing terrors
of her dreams like the presiding genius of them all. Finally, drifting into complete repose,
she slept far into the morning.

She wakened languid and weak. She lay looking about the room, and, like a person recovering
after a heavy blow, wondering what had happened. Then her hand, as with her first waking thought
it had done for the last week, went to the locket chain around her neck. Oh, yes, yes; she
had forgotten. The sapphire was gone. Gone by fraud, gone at a kiss for ever with Harry--no,
with Farrell Wand.

For Harry was not Harry; and Kerr was not Farrell Wand. He was indeed an unknown quantity.
Since she had found Harry she had lost both Kerr's name and his place in her fairy-tale. She
had seen his very demeanor change before her eyes. Indeed, her hour had come without her knowing
it. The spell had been snapped which had made him wear the semblance of evil. His sinister
form was dissolving; but what was to be his identity when finally he stood before her restored
and perfect? If he were not the thief whom she had struggled so to shield, why, then he was
that very strength of law and right which, for his sake, she had betrayed.

She sat up quickened with humiliation. The thing was not a tragedy, it was a grotesque. Blushing
more and more crimson, struggling with strange mingled crying and laughter, she slipped out
of the bed, and, still in her nightgown, ran down the hall, and knocked on Mrs. Herrick's door,
until the dismayed lady opened it.

"I thought it was he," Flora gasped. "I thought it was he who had taken the ring! Why didn't
he tell me? Why did he keep it secret? I would have done anything to have saved it for him,
and I let Harry get it! Oh, isn't it cruel? Isn't it pitiful? Isn't it ridiculous?"

Mrs. Herrick, who, for the last thirty-six hours, had so departed from her curriculum of safety,
and courageously met many strange appearances, now was to hear stranger facts. For Flora had
let go completely, and Mrs. Herrick, without hinting at hysterics, let her laugh, let her cry,
let her tell piece by piece, as she could, the story of the two men, from the night when Kerr
had spoken so strangely at the club on the virtues of thieves to the moment when, in the willow
walk, they discovered that the jewel was gone. Clara's part in the affair, and the price she
had exacted, even in this unnerved moment, Flora's instinct withheld, to save Mrs. Herrick
the last cruelest touch. But for the rest--she let Mrs. Herrick have it all--and under the
shadow of the grim facts the two women clung together, as if to make sure of their own identities.

"I don't even know who he is," Flora said faintly.

Mrs. Herrick gave her a quick glance. She had not a moment's hesitation as to whom the "he"
meant. "You will have to ask him when he comes."

"Do you think he will come back?"

Mrs. Herrick had the heart to smile.

"But think of what I have done. I have lost him the sapphire, and he loves it--loves it as
much as he does me."

Again the glance. "Did he tell you that?"

Flora nodded. The other seemed intently to consider. "He will come back," she declared.

Upheld by her friend's assurance, Flora found the endurance necessary to spend the day, an
empty, stagnant day, in moving about a house and garden where a few hours ago had passed such
a storm of events. She reviewed them, lived them over again, but without taking account of
them. Her mind, that had worked so sharply, was now in abeyance. She lived in emotion, but
with a tantalizing sense of something unexplained which her understanding had not the power
to reach out to and grasp. For a day more she existed under the same roof with Clara, for Clara
stayed on.

At first it seemed to Flora extraordinary that she dared, but presently it began to appear
how much more extraordinary it would have been if Clara had promptly fled. By waiting a discreet
length of time, as if nothing had happened, she put herself indubitably on the right side of
things. Indeed, when one thought, had she ever been legally off it?

That was the very horror. Clara had simply turned the situation over and seen its market value,
and how enormously she had made it pay! Flora herself had paid; and she had seen the evidence
that Harry had paid, paid for his poor little hour of escape which a mere murderer might have
granted him in pity. Yet Clara could walk beside them, meet them at dinner with the same smooth
face, chat upon the terrace with the unsuspecting Mrs. Herrick, and even face Flora in a security
which had the appearance of serenity, since she knew that nothing ever would be told. At every
turn in the day's business Flora kept meeting that placid presence; and it was not until the
end of the day that she met it primed for departure. Flora was with Mrs. Herrick, and Clara,
coming to seek them out, had an air of casual farewell. The small, sweet smile she presented
behind her misty veil, the delicate white-gloved hand she offered were symbols of enduring
friendship, as if she were leaving them only for a few hours; as if, when Flora returned to
town, she would find Clara waiting for them in the house. But Flora knew it was only Clara's
wonderful way. This uprising and departure were her last.

Now all her waiting was for Kerr's returning. She did not know how she should face him, but
she wanted him. A telegram came an hour before him, came to Mrs. Herrick announcing him; and
then himself, driven up on the high seat of the cart, just as daylight was closing. She and
Mrs. Herrick had walked half-way out toward the rose garden; and, seeing them there, he stopped
the cart in the drive, leaped down and ran across the grass. Both hurried to meet him. The
three encountered like friends, like intimates, with hand-clasps and hurried glances searching
each other's faces.

"Did you save it?" Flora asked.

He looked at Mrs. Herrick, hesitating.

"You can tell, she knows," Flora assured him.

"No, I haven't saved it--not so far," he said. He had taken off his hat and the strong light
showed on his face lines of fatigue and anxiety. "He gave me the slip--no trace of him. No
one saw him come into the city; nothing turned up in the goldsmith's shop. His friend, the
blue-eyed Chinaman, has dropped out of sight. I haven't made it public," he glanced at Flora--"but
our men think he's gone out by the water route--Lord knows in what or where! He must have had
this planned for days." He didn't look at Flora now. He turned his communication carefully
on Mrs. Herrick. "There were seven vessels sailed, that day, and all were searched; but there
are ways of smuggling opium, and why not men?"

They were walking toward the house. Kerr looked up at the window where, a short time before,
Clara's face had looked down upon the confusion in the garden.

"Is that paid woman still here?"

"Oh, no; she's gone." Flora looked at him warningly. But Mrs. Herrick had caught his tone.
"Why shouldn't she be?" she demanded with delicate asperity.

Kerr had dropped his monocle. "Because, in common decency, she couldn't. She sold Cressy to
me for a good round sum."

Flora and Mrs. Herrick exchanged a look of horror.

"I'd suspected him," said Kerr. "I knew where I'd seen him, but I couldn't be sure of his identity
till she showed me the picture."

"What picture?" cried Flora.

"The picture Buller mentioned at the club that night: Farrell Wand, boarding the Loch Ettive.
Don't you remember?" He spoke gently, as if afraid that a hasty phrase in such connection might
do her harm. Now, when he saw how white she looked, he steadied her with his arm. "We won't
talk of this business any more," he said.

"But I must talk of it," Flora insisted tremblingly. "I don't even know what you are."

For the first time he showed apologetic. He looked from one to the other with a sort of helpless
simplicity.

"Why, I'm Chatworth--I'm Crew; I'm the chap that owns the confounded thing!"

To see him stand there, announced in that name, gave the tragic farce its last touch. Flora
had an instant of panic when flight seemed the solution. It took all her courage to keep her
there, facing him, watching, as if from afar off, Mrs. Herrick's acknowledgment of the informal
introduction.

"I came here, quietly," he was saying, "so as to get at it without making a row. Only Purdie,
good man! knew--and he's been wondering all along why I've held so heavy a hand on him. We'll
have to lunch with them again, eh?" He turned and looked at Flora. "And make all those explanations
necessitated by this lady's wonderful sense of honor!"

It was here, somewhere in the neighborhood of this sentence of doubtful meaning, that Mrs.
Herrick left them. In looking back, Flora could never recall the exact moment of the departure.
But when she raised her eyes from the grass where they had been fixed for what seemed to her
eternity she found only Kerr--no, Chatworth--standing there, looking at her with a grave face.

"Eh?" he said, "and what about that honor of yours? What shall we say about it, now that the
sapphire's gone and no longer in our way?"

She was breathing quick to keep from crying. "I told you that day at the restaurant."

"Yes, yes; you told me why you kept the sapphire from me, but"--he hung fire, then fetched
it out with an effort--"why did you take it in the first place?"

She looked at him in clear astonishment. "I didn't know what it was."

"You didn't!"

It seemed to Flora the whole situation was turning exactly inside out. The light that was breaking
upon her was more than she could bear. "Oh," she wailed, "you couldn't have thought I meant
to take it!"

"Then if you didn't," he burst out, "why, when I told you what it was, didn't you give it to me?"

The cruel comic muse, who makes our serious suffering ridiculous, had drawn aside the last
curtain. Flora felt the laughter rising in her throat, the tears in her eyes.

"You guessed who I was," he insisted, advancing, "at least what I represented."

She hid her face in her hands, and her voice dropped, tiny, into the stillness.

"I guessed you were Farrell Wand."

XXV

THE LAST ENCHANTMENT

The tallest eucalyptus top was all of the garden that was touched with sun when Flora came
out of the house in the morning. She stood a space looking at that little cone of brightness
far above all the other trees, swaying on the delicate sky. It was not higher lifted nor brighter
burnished than her spirit then. Shorn of her locket chain, her golden pouch, free of her fears,
she poised looking over the garden. Then with a leap she went from the veranda to the grass
and, regardless of dew, skimmed the lawn for the fountain and the rose garden.

There she saw him--the one man--already awaiting her. He stood back to back with a mossy nymph
languishing on her pedestal, and Flora hoped by running softly to steal up behind him, and
make of the helpless marble lady a buffer between their greetings. But either she underestimated
the nymph's bulk, or forgot how invariably direct was the man's attack; for turning and seeing
her, without any circumvention, with one sweep of his long arm, he included the statue in his
grasp of her. With a laugh of triumph he drew her out of her concealment.

To her the splendor of skies and trees and morning light melted into that wonderful moment.
For the first time in weary days she had all to give, nothing to fear or withhold. She was
at peace. She was ready to stop, to stand here in her life for always--here in the glowing
garden with him, and their youth. But he was impatient. He did not want to loiter in the morning.
He was hot to hurry on out of the present which was so mysterious, so untried to her, as if
these ecstasies had no mystery to him but their complete fulfilment. He filled her with a trembling
premonition of the undreamed-of things that were waiting for her in the long aisle of life.

"Come, speak," he urged, as they paced around the fountain. "When am I to take you away?"

She hung back in fear of her very eagerness to go, to plunge head over ears into life in a
strange country with a stranger. "Next month," she ventured.

"Next month! why not next week? why not to-morrow?" he declared with confidence. "Who is to
say no? I am the head of my house and you have no one but me. To be sure, there is Mrs. Herrick--excellent
woman. But she has her own daughters to look out for, and," he added slyly, "much as she thinks
of you, I doubt if she thinks you a good example for them. As for that other, as for the paid
woman--"

"Oh, hush, hush!" Flora cried, hurt with a certain hardness in his voice; "I don't want to
see her. I shall never go near her! And Harry--"

"I wasn't going to speak of him," said Chatworth quickly.

"I know," she answered, "but do you mind my speaking of him?" They had sat down on the broad
lip of the fountain basin. He was looking at her intently. "It is strange," she said, "but
in spite of his doing this terrible thing I can't feel that he himself is terrible--like Clara."

"And yet," he answered in a grave voice, "I would rather you did."

She turned a troubled face. "Ah, have you forgotten what you said the first night I met you?
You said it doesn't matter what a man is, even if he's a thief, as long as he's a good one."

At this he laughed a little grudgingly. "Oh, I don't go back on that, but I was looking through
the great impartial eye of the universe. Whereas a man may be good of his kind, he's only good
in his kind. Tip out a cat among canaries and see what happens. My dear girl, we were the veriest
birds in his paws! And notice that it isn't moral law--it's instinct. We recognize by scent
before we see the shape. You never knew him. You never could. And you never trusted him."

"But," she interrupted eagerly, "I would have done anything for you when I thought you were
a thief."

"Anything?" he caught her up with laughter. "Oh, yes, anything to haul me over the dead line
on to your side. That was the very point you made. That was where you would have dropped me--if
I had stuck by my kind, as you thought it, and not come over to yours."

She saw herself fairly caught. She heard her mental process stated to perfection.

"But if you hadn't felt all along I was your kind, if you hadn't had an idea that I was a stray
from the original fold, you would never have wanted to go in for me," he explained it.

Flora had her doubts about the truth of this. For a time she had been certain of his belonging
to the lawless other fold, and at times she would have gone with him in spite of it, but this
last knowledge she withheld. She withheld it because she could make out now, that, for all
his seeming wildness, he had no lawless instincts in himself. Generations of great doing and
great mixing among men had created him, a creature perfectly natural and therefore eccentric;
but the same generations had handed down from father to son the law-abiding instinct of the
rulers of the people. He could be careless of the law. He was strong in it. In his own mind
he and the law were one. His perception of the relations of life was so complete that he had
no further use for the written law; and Farrell Wand's was so limited that he had never found
the use for it. Lawless both; but--the two extremes. They might seem to meet--but between those
two extremes, between a Chatworth and a Farrell Wand--why, there was all the world's experience
between!

She raised her eyes and smiled at him in thinking of it, but the smile faltered and she drew
away. They were about to be disturbed. Beyond the rose branches far down the drive she saw
a figure moving toward them at a slow, uncertain pace, looking to and fro. "See, there's some
one coming."

"Oh, the gardener!" he said as one would say "Oh, fiddlesticks!"

The gardener had been her first thought. But now she rose uneasily, since she saw it was not
he, asking herself, "Who else, at such an hour?"

By this time Chatworth, still seated, had caught sight of it. "Hello," he said, "what sort
of a thing is that?"

It was a short, shabby, nondescript little figure, shuffling rapidly along the winding walk
between the rose bushes. Now they saw the top of his round black felt hat. Now only a twinkling
pair of legs. Now, around the last clump of bushes he appeared full length, and, suddenly dropping
his businesslike shuffle, approached them at a languid walk.

Flora grasped Chatworth's arm in nervous terror. "Tell him to go," she whispered; "make him
go away."

The blue-eyed Chinaman was planted before them stolidly, with the curious blind look of his
guarded eyes blinking in his withered face. He wore for the first time the blouse of his people,
and his hands were folded in his sleeves.

"Who's this?" said Chatworth, appealing to Flora.

At this the Chinaman spoke. "Mr. Crew," he croaked.

The Englishman, looking from the Oriental to Flora, still demanded explanations with expostulating
gesture.

"It is the man who sold us the sapphire," she whispered; and "Oh, what does he want of you?"

"Eh?" said Chatworth, interrogating the goldsmith with his monocle. "What do you want?"

The little man finished his long, and, what had seemed his blind, stare; then dived into his
sleeve. He drew forth a crumpled thing which seemed to be a pellet and this he proceeded to
unfold. Flora crept cautiously forward, loath to come near, but curious, and saw him spread
out and hold up a roughly torn triangle of newspaper. She gave a cry at sight of it. Across
the top in thick black type ran the figures $20,000.

Chatworth pointed a stern forefinger. "What is it?" he said, though by his tone he knew.

The Chinaman also pointed at it, but cautious and apologetic. "Twenty thousand dollar. You
likee twenty thousand dollar?" He waited a moment. Then, with a glimmer as of returning sight,
presented the alternative. "You likee god?--little joss?--come so?" And with his finger he
traced in the air a curve of such delicate accuracy that the Englishman with an exclamation
made a step toward him. But the Chinaman did not move. "Twenty thousand dollar," he stated.
It sounded an impersonal statement, but nevertheless it was quite evident this time to whom
it applied.

The Englishman measured off his words slowly as if to an incomplete understanding, which Flora
was aware was all too miraculously quick. "This little god, this ring--do you know where it
is? Can you take me to it?"

The goldsmith nodded emphatically at each word, but when all was said he only reiterated, "Twenty
thousand dollar."

Chatworth gave Flora an almost shamefaced glance, and she saw with a curious twinge of jealousy
that he was intensely excited. "Might as well have a pot-shot at it," he said; and sitting
down on the edge of the fountain and taking out his check-book, rested it on his knee and wrote.
Then he rose; he held up the filled-in slip before the Chinaman's eyes.

"Here," he said, "twenty thousand dollars." He held the paper well out of the little man's
reach. "Now," he challenged, "tell me where it is?"

Into the goldsmith's eyes came a lightning flash of intelligence, such as Flora remembered
to have seen there when Farrell Wand, leaning on the dusty counter, had bidden him go and bring
something pretty. He seemed to quiver a moment in indecision. Then he whipped his hand out
of his sleeve and held it forth palm upward. This time it was Chatworth who cried out. The
thing that lay on the goldsmith's palm Flora had never seen, though once it had been described
to her--"a bit of an old gold heathen god, curled around himself, with his head of two yellow
sapphires and a big blue stone on top."

There it blazed at her, the jewel she had carried in her bosom, that she had hidden in her
pouch of gold, and that had vanished from it at the touch of a magic hand, now cunningly restored
to its right place in the forehead of the Crew Idol, crowning him with living light.

Speechless they looked together at the magic thing. They had thought it far at sea; and as
if at a wave of a genii's wand it was here before them flashing in the quiet garden.

With an effort Chatworth seemed to keep himself from seizing on ring and man together. He looked
searchingly at the goldsmith and seemed on the point of asking a question, but, instead, he
slowly held out his hand. He held it out cup-fashion. It shook so that Flora saw the Chinaman
steady it to drop in the ring. Then, folding his check miraculously small, enveloping it in
the ragged piece of newspaper, the little man turned and shuffled from them down the gravel walk.

Chatworth stood staring after him with his Idol in his palm. Then, turning slow eyes to Flora,
"How did he come by this?" he asked, as sternly as if he demanded it of the mystery itself.

"He had it, from the very first." The pieces of the puzzle were flashing together in Flora's
mind. "That first time Harry left the exhibit he took it there."

"But the blue sapphire?" Chatworth insisted.

"Harry," Flora whispered, "Harry gave it up to him."

"Gave it up to him!" Chatworth echoed in scorn.

But she had had an inspiration of understanding. "He had to--for money to get off with. He
gave Clara all he had so that she would let him get away. Poor thing!" she added in a lower
breath, but Chatworth did not hear her. He had taken the Idol in his thumb and finger, and,
holding it up in the broadening light, looked fixedly at it with the passionate incredulity
with which one might hold and look at a friend thought dead. She watched him with her jealous
pang increasing to a greater feeling--a feeling of being separated from him by this jewel which
he loved, and which had grown to seem hateful to her, which had shown itself a breeder of all
the greedy passions. She came softly up to him, and, lifting her hand, covered the Idol.

He turned toward her in wonder.

"Ah, you love it too much," she whispered.

"That's unworthy of you," he reproached her. "I have loved you more; and that in spite of what
I believed of you, and what this means to me. To me, this ring is not a pretty thing seen yesterday.
It is the symbol of my family. It is the power and pride of us, which our women have worn on
their hands as they have worn our honor in their hearts. It is part of the life of my people
and now it has made itself part of our life, of yours and mine. Shall I ever forget how starkly
you held it for the sake of my honor, even against myself? Should I ever have known you without
it?" He put the ring into her hand, and, smiling with his old dare, held it over the fountain.
"Now, if you want to, drop it in." He released her hand and turned to leave her to her will.

For a moment she stood with power in her hands and her eyes on his averted head. Then with
a little rush she crossed the space between them. "Here, take it! You love it! I want you to
keep it! but I can't forget the dreadful things it has made people do. It makes me afraid."

In spite of his smiling he seemed to her very grave. "You dear, silly child! The whole storm
and trouble of life comes from things being in the wrong place. This has been in the wrong
place and made mischief."

"Like me," she murmured.

"Like you," he agreed. "Now we shall be as we should be. Give me your hand."

He drew off all the rings with which she had once tried to dim the sparkle of the sapphire,
and, dropping them into his pocket like so much dross, slipped on the Idol that covered her
third finger in a splendid bar from knuckle to joint. Holding her by just the tip of that finger,
leaning back a little, he looked into her eyes, and she, looking back, knew that it wedded
them once for all.