This unjustifiable treatment, the Queen could not digest from an ally, upon whom she had conferred
so many signal obligations, whom she had used with so much indulgence and sincerity during
the whole course of the negotiation, and had so often invited to go along with her in every
motion towards a peace. She apprehended likewise, that the negotiation might be taken out of
her hands, if France could be secure of easier conditions in Holland, or might think that Britain
wanted power to influence the whole confederacy. She resolved therefore, on this occasion,
to exert herself with vigour, steadiness, and dispatch; and, in the beginning of May, sent
her commands to the Earl of Strafford to repair immediately to England, in order to consult
with her ministers what was proper to be done.

The proposal above mentioned, for preventing the union of France and Spain, met with many difficulties;
Mons. de Torcy raising objections against several parts of it. But the Queen refused to proceed
any farther with France, until this weighty point were fully settled to her satisfaction; after
which, she promised to grant a suspension of arms, provided the town and citadel of Dunkirk
might be delivered as a pledge into her hands: and proposed that Ypres might be surrendered
to the Dutch, if they would consent to come into the suspension. France absolutely refused
the latter; and the States General having acted in perpetual contradiction to Her Majesty,
she pressed that matter no farther; because she doubted they would not agree to a cessation
of arms. However, she resolved to put a speedy end, or at least intermission, to her own share
in the war: and the French having declared themselves ready to agree to her expedients, for
preventing the union of the two crowns, and consented to the delivery of Dunkirk; positive
orders were sent to the Duke of Ormonde to avoid engaging in any battle or siege, until he
had further instructions; but he was directed to conceal his orders, and to find the best excuses
he could, if any pressing occasion should offer.

The reasons for this unusual proceeding, which made a mighty noise, were of sufficient weight
to justify it; for, pursuant to the agreement made between us and France, a courier was then
dispatched from Fontainebleau to Madrid, with the offer of an alternative to Philip, either
of resigning Spain immediately to the Duke of Savoy, upon the hopes of succeeding to France,
and some present advantage, which, not having been accepted, is needless to dilate on; or of
adhering to Spain, and renouncing all future claim to France for himself and his posterity.

Until it could be known which part Philip would accept, the Queen would not take possession
of Dunkirk, nor suffer an armistice to be declared. But, however, since the Most Christian
King had agreed that his grandson should be forced, in case of a refusal, to make his choice
immediately, Her Majesty could not endure to think, that perhaps some thousands of lives of
her own subjects and allies might be sacrificed, without necessity, if an occasion should be
found or sought for fighting a battle; which, she very well knew, Prince Eugene would eagerly
attempt, and put all into confusion, to gratify his own ambition, the enmity of his new masters
the Dutch, and the rage of his court.

But the Duke of Ormonde, who, with every other quality that can accomplish or adorn a great
man, inherits all the valour and loyalty of his ancestors, found it very difficult to acquit
himself of his commission;[6] for Prince Eugene, and all the field deputies of the States,
had begun already to talk either of attacking the enemy, or besieging Quesnoy, the confederate
army being now all joined by the troops they expected; and accordingly, about three days after
the Duke had received those orders from court, it was proposed to his grace, at a meeting with
the prince and deputies, that the French army should be attacked, their camp having been viewed,
and a great opportunity offering to do it with success; for the Marechal de Villars, who had
notice sent him by Mons. de Torcy of what was passing, and had signified the same by a trumpet
to the Duke, shewed less vigilance than was usual to that general, taking no precautions to
secure his camp, or observe the motions of the allies, probably on purpose to provoke them,
the Duke said, "That the Earl of Strafford's sudden departure for England, made him believe
there was something of consequence now transacting, which would be known in four or five days;
and therefore desired they would defer this or any other undertaking, until he could receive
fresh letters from England." Whereupon the prince and deputies immediately told the Duke, "That
they looked for such an answer as he had given them: That they had suspected our measures for
some time, and their suspicions were confirmed by the express his grace had so lately received,
as well as by the negligence of Mons. Villars". They appeared extremely dissatisfied; and the
deputies told the Duke, that they would immediately send an account of his answer to their
masters, which they accordingly did; and soon after, by order from the States, wrote him an
expostulating letter, in a style less respectful than became them; desiring him, among other
things, to explain himself, whether he had positive orders not to fight the French; and afterwards
told him, "They were sure he had such orders, otherwise he could not answer what he had done."
But the Duke still waived the question, saying, "he would be glad to have letters from England,
before he entered upon action, and that he expected them daily."

[Footnote 6: For an estimate of Ormonde's character see Swift's "Enquiry into the Behaviour
of the Queen's Last Ministry," vol. v. of present edition (pp. 428-430). Ormonde had done very
little to deserve succeeding such a soldier as Marlborough. Indeed, his name was associated
with the disgraceful expedition to Cadiz, in which he was in command of the English troops. [T.S.]]

Upon this incident, the ministers and generals of the allies immediately took the alarm, venting
their fury in violent expressions against the Queen, and those she employed in her councils:
said, they were betrayed by Britain, and assumed the countenance of those who think they have
received an injury, and are disposed to return it.

The Duke of Ormonde's army consisted of eighteen thousand of Her Majesty's subjects, and about
thirty thousand hired from other princes, either wholly by the Queen, or jointly by her and
the States. The Duke immediately informed the court of the dispositions he found among the
foreign generals upon this occasion; and that, upon an exigency, he could only depend on the
British troops adhering to him; those of Hanover having already determined to desert to the
Dutch, and tempted the Danes to do the like, and that he had reason to suppose the same of
the rest.

Upon the news arriving at Utrecht, that the Duke of Ormonde had refused to engage in any action
against the enemy, the Dutch ministers there went immediately to make their complaints to the
lord privy seal; aggravating the strangeness of this proceeding, together with the consequence
of it, in the loss of a most favourable opportunity for ruining the French army, and the discontent
it must needs create in the whole body of the confederates. Adding, how hard it was that they
should be kept in the dark, and have no communication of what was done in a point which so
nearly concerned them. They concluded, that the Duke must needs have acted by orders; and desired
his lordship to write both to court, and to his grace, what they had now said.

The bishop answered, "That he knew nothing of this fact, but what they had told him; and therefore
was not prepared with a reply to their representations: only, in general, he could venture
to say, that this case appeared very like the conduct of their field-deputies upon former occasions:
That if such orders were given, they were certainly built upon very justifiable foundations,
and would soon be so explained as to convince the States, and all the world, that the common
interest would be better provided for another way, than by a battle or siege: That the want
of communication which they complained of, could not make the States so uneasy as their declining
to receive it had made the Queen, who had used her utmost endeavours to persuade them to concur
with her in concerting every step towards a general peace, and settling such a plan as both
sides might approve and adhere to; but, to this day, the States had not thought fit to accept
those offers, or to authorize any of their ministers to treat with Her Majesty's plenipotentiaries
upon that affair, although they had been pressed to it ever since the negotiation began: That
his lordship, to shew that he did not speak his private sense alone, took this opportunity
to execute the orders he had received the evening before, by declaring to them, that all Her
Majesty's offers for adjusting the differences between her and the States were founded upon
this express condition, That they should come immediately into the Queen's measures, and act
openly and sincerely with her; and that, from their conduct, so directly contrary, she now
looked upon herself to be under no obligation to them."

Mons. Buys and his colleagues were stunned with this declaration, made to them at a time when
they pretended to think the right of complaining to be on their side, and had come to the bishop
upon that errand. But after their surprise was abated, and Buys's long reasonings at an end,
they began to think how matters might be retrieved; and were of opinion, that the States should
immediately dispatch a minister to England, unless his lordship were empowered to treat with
them; which, without new commands, he said he was not. They afterwards desired to know of the
bishop, what the meaning was of the last words in his declaration, "That Her Majesty looked
upon herself to be under no obligation to them." He told them his opinion, "That as the Queen
was bound by treaty to concert with the States the conditions of a peace, so, upon their declining
the concert so frequently offered, she was acquitted of that obligation: but that he verily
believed, whatever measures Her Majesty should take, she would always have a friendly regard
to the interest of their commonwealth; and that as their unkindness had been very unexpected
and disagreeable to Her Majesty, so their compliance would be equally pleasing."

I have been the more circumstantial in relating this affair, because it furnished abundance
of discourse, and gave rise to many wild conjectures and misrepresentations, as well here as
in Holland, especially that part which concerned the Duke of Ormonde;[7] for the angry faction
in the House of Commons, upon the first intelligence, that the Duke had declined to act offensively
against France, in concurrence with the allies, moved for an address, wherein the Queen should
be informed of "the deep concern of her Commons for the dangerous consequences to the common
cause, which must arise from this proceeding of her general; and to beseech her, that speedy
instructions might be given to the Duke to prosecute the war with vigour, in order to quiet
the minds of her people, &c." But a great majority was against this motion, and a resolution
drawn up and presented to the Queen by the whole House of a quite contrary tenor, "That they
had an entire confidence in Her Majesty's most gracious promise, to communicate to her Parliament
the terms of the peace, before the same should be concluded; and that they would support Her
Majesty, in obtaining an honourable and safe peace, against all such persons, either at home
or abroad, who have endeavoured, or shall endeavour, to obstruct the same."

[Footnote 7: This determination on the part of England to cease hostilities at this juncture
has been most severely criticized. The matter formed, afterwards, the chief article in the
impeachment of Bolingbroke, and an important article in the impeachment of Oxford. According
to the "Report of the Committee of Secrecy," and the Earl of Oxford's answer to this charge
in his impeachment, it seems as if St. John had instructed Ormonde so to act, without in any
way consulting the council, and apparently purposely concealing the fact from his colleagues.
Mr. Walter Sichel, however, in a note on p. 380 of his "Bolingbroke and his Times," clearly
traces the order to the desire of the Queen herself, and in his text lays on the Queen the
blame that was visited on the heads of her ministers. See also note on p. 156. [T.S.]]

The courier sent with the alternative to Spain was now returned, with an account that Philip
had chosen to renounce France for himself and his posterity, whereof the Queen having received
notice, Her Majesty, upon the sixth of June, in a long speech to both Houses of Parliament,
laid before them the terms of a general peace, stipulated between her and France. This speech,
being the plan whereby both France and the allies have been obliged to proceed in the subsequent
course of the treaty, I shall desire the reader's leave to insert it at length, although I
believe it hath been already in most hands.[7]

[Footnote 7: This speech was printed by John Baskett, 1712. [W.S.J.]]

"MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN,

"The making peace and war is the undoubted prerogative of the crown; yet such is the just confidence
I place in you, that at the opening of this session, I acquainted you that a negotiation for
a general peace was begun; and afterwards, by messages, I promised to communicate to you the
terms of peace, before the same should be concluded.

"In pursuance of that promise, I now come to let you know upon what terms a general peace may
be made.

"I need not mention the difficulties which arise from the very nature of this affair; and it
is but too apparent, that these difficulties have been increased by other obstructions, artfully
contrived to hinder this great and good work.

"Nothing, however, has moved me from steadily pursuing, in the first place, the true interests
of my own kingdoms, and I have not omitted any thing, which might procure to all our allies
what is due to them by treaties, and what is necessary for their security.

"The assuring of the Protestant succession, as by law established in the House of Hanover,
to these kingdoms; being what I have nearest at heart, particular care is taken not only to
have that acknowledged in the strongest terms, but to have an additional security, by the removal
of that person out of the dominions of France, who has pretended to disturb this settlement.

"The apprehension that Spain and the West Indies might be united to France, was the chief inducement
to begin this war; and the effectual preventing of such an union, was the principle I laid
down at the commencement of this treaty. Former examples, and the late negotiations, sufficiently
shew how difficult it is to find means to accomplish this work. I would not content myself
with such as are speculative, or depend on treaties only: I insisted on what was solid, and
to have at hand the power of executing what should be agreed.

"I can therefore now tell you, that France at last is brought to offer, that the Duke of Anjou
shall, for himself and his descendants, renounce for ever all claim to the crown of France;
and that this important article may be exposed to no hazard, the performance is to accompany
the promise.

"At the same time the succession to the crown of France is to be declared, after the death
of the present dauphin and his sons, to be in the Duke of Berry and his sons, in the Duke of
Orleans and his sons, and so on to the rest of the House of Bourbon.

"As to Spain and the Indies, the succession to those dominions, after the Duke of Anjou and
his children, is to descend to such prince as shall be agreed upon at the treaty, for ever
excluding the rest of the House of Bourbon.

"For confirming the renunciations and settlements before mentioned, it is further offered,
that they should be ratified in the most strong and solemn manner, both in France and Spain;
and that those kingdoms, as well as all the other powers engaged in the present war, shall
be guarantees to the same.

"The nature of this proposal is such, that it executes itself: the interest of Spain is to
support it; and in France, the persons to whom that succession is to belong, will be ready
and powerful enough to vindicate their own right.

"France and Spain are now more effectually divided than ever. And thus, by the blessing of
God, will a real balance of power be fixed in Europe, and remain liable to as few accidents
as human affairs can be exempted from.

"A treaty of commerce between these kingdoms and France has been entered upon; but the excessive
duties laid on some goods, and the prohibitions of others, make it impossible to finish this
work so soon as were to be desired. Care is however taken to establish a method of settling
this matter; and in the mean time provision is made, that the same privileges and advantages,
as shall be granted to any other nation by France, shall be granted in like manner to us.

"The division of the Island of St. Christopher, between us and the French, having been the
cause of great inconveniency and damage to my subjects, I have demanded to have an absolute
cession made to me of that whole island, and France agrees to this demand.

"Our interest is so deeply concerned in the trade of North America, that I have used my utmost
endeavours to adjust that article in the most beneficial manner.

"The safety of our home trade will be better provided for, by the demolition of Dunkirk.

"Our Mediterranean trade, and the British interest and influence in those parts, will be secured
by the possession of Gibraltar and Port Mahon, with the whole island of Minorca, which are
offered to remain in my hands.

"The trade to Spain and to the West Indies may in general be settled, as it was in the time
of the late King of Spain, Charles the Second; and a particular provision be made, that all
advantages, rights, or privileges, which have been granted, or which may hereafter be granted,
by Spain to any other nation, shall be in like manner granted to the subjects of Great Britain.

"But the part which we have borne in the prosecution of this war, entitling us to some distinction
in the terms of peace, I have insisted, and obtained, that the Assiento, or contract for furnishing
the Spanish West Indies with negroes, shall be made with us for the term of thirty years, in
the same manner as it has been enjoyed by the French for ten years past.

"I have not taken upon me to determine the interests of our confederates; these must be adjusted
in the congress at Utrecht, where my best endeavours shall be employed, as they have hitherto
constantly been, to procure to every one of them all just and reasonable satisfaction. In the
mean time, I think it proper to acquaint you, that France offers to make the Rhine the barrier
of the empire; to yield Brissac, the fort of Kehl, and Landau, and to raze all the fortresses,
both on the other side of the Rhine, and in that river.

"As to the Protestant interest in Germany, there will be on the part of France no objection
to the resettling thereof, on the foot of the treaty of Westphalia.

"As to the kingdom of Sicily, though there remains no dispute concerning the cession of it
by the Duke of Anjou, yet the disposition thereof is not yet determined.

"The interests of the States General, with respect to commerce, are agreed to, as they have
been demanded by their own ministers, with the exception only of some very few species of merchandise;
and the entire barrier, as demanded by the States in one thousand seven hundred and nine from
France, except two or three places at most.

"As to these exceptions, several expedients are proposed; and I make no doubt but this barrier
may be so settled, as to render that republic perfectly secure against any enterprise on the
part of France; which is the foundation of all my engagements upon this head with the States.

"The demands of Portugal depending on the disposition of Spain, and that article having been
long in dispute, it has not been yet possible to make any considerable progress therein; but
my plenipotentiaries will now have an opportunity to assist that king in his pretensions.

"Those of the King of Prussia are such as, I hope, will admit of little difficulty on the part
of France; and my utmost endeavours shall not be wanting to procure all I am able to so good
an ally.

"The difference between the barrier demanded for the Duke of Savoy in one thousand seven hundred
and nine, and the offers now made by France, is very inconsiderable: but that prince having
so signally distinguished himself in the service of the common cause, I am endeavouring to
procure for him still farther advantages.

"France has consented, that the Elector Palatine shall continue his present rank among the
electors, and remain in possession of the Upper Palatinate.

"The electoral dignity is likewise acknowledged in the House of Hanover, according to the article
inserted at that prince's desire in my demands.

"And as to the rest of the allies, I make no doubt of being able to secure their several interests.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN,

"I have now communicated to you, not only the terms of peace, which may, by the future treaty,
be obtained for my own subjects; but likewise the proposals of France, for satisfying our allies.

"The former are such as I have reason to expect, to make my people some amends for that great
and unequal burden which they have lain under, through the whole course of this war; and I
am willing to hope, that none of our confederates, and especially those to whom so great accessions
of dominion and power are to accrue by this peace, will envy Britain her share in the glory
and advantage of it.

"The latter are not yet so perfectly adjusted, as a little more time might have rendered them;
but the season of the year making it necessary to put an end to this session, I resolved no
longer to defer communicating these matters to you.

The discontented party in the House of Commons, finding the torrent against them not to be
stemmed, suspended their opposition; by which means an address was voted, nemine contradicente,
to acknowledge Her Majesty's condescension, to express their satisfaction in what she had already
done, and to desire she would please to proceed with the present negotiations for obtaining
a speedy peace.

During these transactions at home, the Duke of Ormonde[8] was in a very uneasy situation at
the army, employed in practising those arts which perhaps are fitter for a subtle negotiator
than a great commander.[9] But as he had always proved his obedience, where courage or conduct
could be of use; so the duty he professed to his prince, made him submit to continue in a state
of inactivity at the head of his troops, however contrary to his nature, if it were for Her
Majesty's service. He had sent early notice to the ministers, that he could not depend upon
the foreign forces in the Queen's pay, and he now found some attempts were already begun to
seduce them.

[Footnote 8: James Butler, Duke of Ormonde, succeeded his grandfather in that title in July,
1688, was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1703, and again in 1710. He succeeded the Duke of Marlborough
as captain general, and had the first regiment of Guards. Bishop Burnet says, "he had the same
allowances that had been lately voted criminal in the Duke of Marlborough." ("History," vol.
ii., p. 602). [N.]]

[Footnote 9: Bolingbroke had written a letter to Ormonde (dated May 10th, 1712) in which he
informed the commander-in-chief that it was the "Queen's positive command to your Grace, that
you avoid engaging in any siege or hazarding a battle till you have farther orders from Her
Majesty." How to do this with dignity was not an easy matter. The continuation of this letter
from Bolingbroke suggested the spirit, though it left to Ormonde the details of his procedure
in so delicate a situation: "I am, at the same time, directed to let your Grace know that the
Queen would have you disguise the receipt of this order; and her Majesty thinks that you cannot
want pretences for conducting yourself so as to answer her ends, without owning that which
might at present have an ill effect if it was publicly known." (Bolingbroke, "Correspondence,"
ii. 320). This is what Swift means by being: "employed in practicing those arts which perhaps
are fitter for a subtle negotiator than a great commander." [T.S.]]

While the courier was expected from Madrid, the Duke had orders to inform the Maréchal de Villars
of the true state of this affair; and that his grace would have decisive orders in three or
four days. In the mean time, he desired the marechal would not oblige him to come to any action,
either to defend himself, or to join with Prince Eugene's army; which he must necessarily do,
if the prince were attacked.

When the courier was arrived with the account, that Philip had chosen to accept of Spain, Her
Majesty had proposed to France a suspension of arms for two months (to be prolonged to three
or four), between the armies now in Flanders, upon the following conditions:

"That, during the suspension, endeavours should be used for concluding a general peace; or,
at least, the article for preventing the union of France and Spain, should be punctually executed
by Philip's renouncing France, for himself and his posterity; and the princes of Bourbon, in
like manner, renouncing Spain: and that the town, citadel, and forts of Dunkirk, should be
immediately delivered into the Queen's hands." Her Majesty at the same time endeavoured to
get Cambray for the Dutch, provided they would come into the suspension. But this was absolutely
rejected by France; which that court would never have ventured to do, if those allies could
have been prevailed on to have acted with sincerity and openness in concert with Her Majesty,
as her plenipotentiaries had always desired. However, the Queen promised, that, if the States
would yield to a suspension of arms, they should have some valuable pledge put into their possession.

But now fresh intelligence daily arrived, both from Utrecht and the army, of attempts to make
the troops in Her Majesty's pay desert her service; and a design even of seizing the British
forces, was whispered about, and with reason suspected.

When the Queen's speech was published in Holland, the lord privy seal told the Dutch ministers
at Utrecht, "That what Her Majesty had laid before her Parliament could not, according to the
rules of treaty, be looked on as the utmost of what France would yield in the course of a negotiation;
but only the utmost of what that crown would propose, in order to form the plan of a peace:
That these conditions would certainly have been better, if the States had thought fit to have
gone hand in hand with Her Majesty, as she had so frequently exhorted them to do: That nothing
but the want of harmony among the allies had spirited the French to stand out so long: That
the Queen would do them all the good offices in her power, if they thought fit to comply; and
did not doubt of getting them reasonable satisfaction, both in relation to their barrier and
their trade." But this reasoning made no impression: the Dutch ministers said, the Queen's
speech had deprived them of the fruits of the war. They were in pain, lest Lille and Tournay
might be two of the towns to be excepted out of their barrier. The rest of the allies grew
angry, by the example of the Dutch. The populace in Holland began to be inflamed: they publicly
talked, that Britain had betrayed them. Sermons were preached in several towns of their provinces,
whether by direction or connivance, filled with the highest instances of disrespect to Her
Britannic Majesty, whom they charged as a papist, and an enemy to their country. The lord privy
seal himself believed something extraordinary was in agitation, and that his own person was
in danger from the fury of the people.

It is certain, that the States appeared but a few days before very much disposed to comply
with the measures the Queen had taken, and would have consented to a general armistice, if
Count Zinzendorf, one of the plenipotentiaries for the Emperor, had not, by direct orders from
his court, employed himself in sowing jealousies between Britain and the States; and at the
same time made prodigious offers to the latter, as well as to the ministers of Prussia, the
Palatinate, and Hanover, for continuing the war. That those three electors, who contributed
nothing, except bodies of men in return of pay and subsidies, should readily accept the proposals
of the Emperor, is easy to be accounted for. What appears hardly credible is, that a grave
republic, usually cautious enough in making their bargains, should venture to reject the thoughts
of a peace upon the promises of the House of Austria, the little validity whereof they had
so long experienced; and especially when they counted upon losing the support of Britain, their
most powerful ally; but the false hopes given them by their friends in England of some new
change in their favour, or an imagination of bringing France to better terms by the appearance
of resolution, added to the weakness or corruption of some, who administered their affairs,
were the true causes which first created, and afterwards inflamed, this untractable temper
among them.

The Dutch ministers were wholly disconcerted and surprised, when the lord privy seal told them,
"That a suspension of arms in the Netherlands would be necessary; and that the Duke of Ormonde
intended very soon to declare it after he had taken possession of Dunkirk." But his lordship
endeavoured to convince them, that this incident ought rather to be a motive for hastening
the States into a compliance with Her Majesty. He likewise communicated to the ministers of
the allies the offers made by France, as delivered in the speech from the throne, which Her
Majesty thought to be satisfactory, and hoped their masters would concur with her in bringing
the peace to a speedy conclusion, wherein each, in particular, might be assured of her best
offices for advancing their just pretensions.

In the mean time the Duke of Ormonde was directed to send a body of troops to take possession
of Dunkirk, as soon as he should have notice from the Maréchal de Villars, that the commandant
of the town had received orders from his court to deliver it; but the Duke foresaw many difficulties
in the executing of this commission. He could trust such an enterprise to no forces, except
those of Her Majesty's own subjects. He considered the temper of the States in this conjuncture,
and was loth to divide a small body of men, upon whose faithfulness alone he could depend.
He thought it not prudent to expose them to march through the enemy's country, with whom there
was yet neither peace nor truce; and he had sufficient reasons to apprehend, that the Dutch
would either not permit such a detachment to pass through their towns (as themselves had more
than hinted to him) or would seize them as they passed: besides, the Duke had very fairly signified
to Maréchal de Villars, that he expected to be deserted by all the foreign troops in Her Majesty's
pay, as soon as the armistice should be declared; at which the maréchal appearing extremely
disappointed, said, "The King his master reckoned, that all the troops under his grace's command
should yield to the cessation; and wondered how it should come to pass, that those who might
be paid for lying still, would rather choose, after a ten years' war, to enter into the service
of new masters, under whom they must fight on for nothing." In short, the opinion of Mons.
Villars was, that this difficulty cancelled the promise of surrendering Dunkirk; which therefore
he opposed as much as possible, in the letters he writ to his court.

Upon the Duke of Ormonde's representing those difficulties, the Queen altered her measures,
and ordered forces to be sent from England to take possession of Dunkirk. The Duke was likewise
commanded to tell the foreign generals in Her Majesty's service, how highly she would resent
their desertion; after which, their masters must give up all thoughts of any arrears, either
of pay or subsidy. The lord privy seal spoke the same language at Utrecht, to the several ministers
of the allies; as Mr. Secretary St. John did to those who resided here; adding, "That the proceeding
of the foreign troops would be looked upon as a declaration for or against Her Majesty: and
that, in case they desert her service, she would look on herself as justified, before God and
man, to continue her negotiation at Utrecht, or any other place, whether the allies concur
or not." And particularly the Dutch were assured, "That if their masters seduced the forces
hired by the Queen, they must take the whole pay, arrears, and subsidies on themselves."[10]

[Footnote 10: Compare this language of Bishop Robinson with the letter Bolingbroke had previously
written to Thomas Harley (letter of May 17, 1712): "On the report which my Lord Strafford,
who arrived here the day before yesterday, has made by word of mouth, as well as upon the contents
of the latter dispatches from Utrecht, her Majesty is fully determined to let all negotiations
sleep in Holland; since they have neither sense, nor gratitude, nor spirit enough to make a
suitable return to the offers lately sent by the Queen, and communicated by the plenipotentiaries,
her Majesty will look on herself as under no obligation towards them, but proceed to make the
peace either with or without them."

When the States-General addressed a complaint to the Queen of the manner in which England was
deserting them, Bolingbroke had their letter formally condemned by a resolution of the House
of Commons. He was determined to bring this peace about, and the Dutch might "kick and flounce
like wild beasts caught in a toil; yet the cords are too strong for them to break." (Report
from the Committee of Secrecy.) [T.S.]]

The Earl of Strafford, preparing about this time to return to Utrecht, with instructions proper
to the present situation of affairs, went first to the army, and there informed the Duke of
Ormonde of Her Majesty's intentions. He also acquainted the States deputies with the Queen's
uneasiness, lest, by the measures they were taking, they should drive her to extremities, which
she desired so much to avoid. He farther represented to them, in the plainest terms, the provocations
Her Majesty had received, and the grounds and reasons for her present conduct. He likewise
declared to the commanders in chief of the foreign troops, in the Queen's pay, and in the joint
pay of Britain and the States, with how much surprise Her Majesty had heard, "That there was
the least doubt of their obeying the orders of the Duke of Ormonde; which if they refused,
Her Majesty would esteem it not only as an indignity and affront, but as a declaration against
her; and, in such a case, they must look on themselves as no farther entitled either to any
arrear, or future pay or subsidies."

Six regiments, under the command of Mr. Hill,[11] were now preparing to embark, in order to
take possession of Dunkirk; and the Duke of Ormonde, upon the first intelligence sent him,
that the French were ready to deliver the town, was to declare he could act no longer against
France. The Queen gave notice immediately of her proceedings to the States. She let them plainly
know, "That their perpetual caballing with her factious subjects, against her authority, had
forced her into such measures, as otherwise she would not have engaged in. However, Her Majesty
was willing yet to forget all that had passed, and to unite with them in the strictest ties
of amity, which she hoped they would now do; since they could not but be convinced, by the
late dutiful addresses of both Houses, how far their High Mightinesses had been deluded, and
drawn in as instruments to serve the turn, and gratify the passions, of a disaffected party:
That their opposition, and want of concert with Her Majesty's ministers, which she had so often
invited them to, had encouraged France to except towns out of their barrier, which otherwise
might have been yielded: That, however, she had not precluded them, or any other ally, from
demanding more; and even her own terms were but conditional, upon supposition of a general
peace to ensue: That Her Majesty resolved to act upon the plan laid down in her speech;" and
she repeated the promise of her best offices to promote the interest of the States, if they
would deal sincerely with her.

[Footnote 11: John Hill, brother to Mrs. Masham. It is not difficult to guess at the reason
for this appointment. Here was a chance for Jack Hill to achieve some glory and wipe away the
disgrace of the ill-starred Quebec expedition. As there was also no danger attached to the
enterprise, all the more likely that he would succeed. Hill sailed with Admiral Sir John Leake
and took peaceable possession of the town and forts. For this he was appointed Governor of
Dunkirk, and while there he sent Swift a gold snuff-box as a present, "the finest that ever
you saw," as Swift wrote to Stella: See also vol. v., p. 80, of this edition. [T.S.]]

Some days before the Duke of Ormonde had notice, that orders were given for the surrender of
Dunkirk, Prince Eugene of Savoy sent for the generals of the allies, and asked them severally,
whether, in case the armies separated, they would march with him, or stay with the Duke? All
of them, except two, who commanded but small bodies, agreed to join with the prince; who thereupon,
about three days after, sent the Duke word, that he intended to march the following day (as
it was supposed) to besiege Landrecies. The Duke returned an answer, "That he was surprised
at the prince's message, there having been not the least previous concert with him, nor any
mention in the message, which way, or upon what design, the march was intended: therefore,
that the Duke could not resolve to march with him; much less could the prince expect assistance
from the Queen's army, in any design undertaken after this manner." The Duke told this beforehand,
that he (the prince) might take his measures accordingly, and not attribute to Her Majesty's
general any misfortune that might happen.

On the sixteenth of July, N.S. the several generals of the allies joined Prince Eugene's army,
and began their march, after taking leave of the Duke and the Earl of Strafford, whose expostulations
could not prevail on them to stay; although the latter assured them, that the Queen had made
neither peace nor truce with France, and that her forces would now be left exposed to the enemy.

The next day after this famous desertion, the Duke of Ormonde received a letter from Mons.
de Villars, with an account, that the town and citadel of Dunkirk should be delivered to Mr.
Hill. Whereupon a cessation of arms was declared, by sound of trumpet, at the head of the British
army; which now consisted only of about eighteen thousand men, all of Her Majesty's subjects,
except the Holsteiners, and Count Wallis's dragoons.[12] With this small body of men the general
began his march; and, pursuant to orders from court, retired towards the sea, in the manner
he thought most convenient for the Queen's service. When he came as far as Flines, he was told
by some of his officers, that the commandants of Bouchain, Douay, Lille, and Tournay, had refused
them passage through those towns, or even liberty of entrance, and said it was by order of
their masters.[13] The Duke immediately recollected, that when the deputies first heard of
his resolution to withdraw his troops, they told him, they hoped he did not intend to march
through any of their towns. This made him conclude, that the orders must be general, and that
his army would certainly meet with the same treatment which his officers had done. He had likewise,
before the armies separated, received information of some designs that concerned the safety,
or at least the freedom of his own person, and (which he much more valued) that of those few
British troops entrusted to his care. No general was ever more truly or deservedly beloved
by his soldiers, who, to a man, were prepared to sacrifice their lives in his service; and
whose resentments were raised to the utmost, by the ingratitude, as they termed it, of their
deserters.

[Footnote 12: Barner, who commanded the troops of Holstein, being two battalions and eight
squadrons, and Walef or Waless, who commanded the dragoons of Liège, both followed Ormonde. [S.]]

[Footnote 13: At Bouchain, the British officers were told at the gates, that the commandant
had positive orders to let no Englishman into the town; and at Douay, where the English had
large stores and magazines, the same thing happened with considerable aggravation. Indeed,
it was with difficulty and precaution that the commandant of the latter town would permit the
body of an English colonel to be interred there. The same difficulties occurred at Tournay,
Oudenarde, and Lille; and the Duke of Ormonde having sent an officer express to England on
the 17th, he was stopped and interrupted at Haspre, misguided at Courtray, and refused admission
at Bruges. (See "The Conduct of his Grace the Duke of Ormonde, in the Campagne of 1712," 1715,
pp. 46-50.) [S.]]

Upon these provocations, he laid aside all thoughts of returning to Dunkirk, and began to consider
how he might perform, in so difficult a conjuncture, something important to the Queen, and
at the same time find a secure retreat for his forces. He formed his plan without communicating
it to any person whatsoever; and the disposition of the army being to march towards Warneton,
in the way to Dunkirk, he gave sudden orders to Lieutenant-General Cadogan to change his route,
according to the military phrase, and move towards Orchies, a town leading directly to Ghent.

When Prince Eugene and the States deputies received news of the Duke's motions, they were alarmed
to the utmost degree, and sent Count Nassau, of Woudenbourg, to the general's camp near Orchies,
to excuse what had been done, and to assure his grace, that those commandants, who had refused
passage to his officers, had acted wholly without orders. Count Hompesch, one of the Dutch
generals, came likewise to the Duke with the same story; but all this made little impression
on the general, who held on his march, and on the twenty-third of July, N.S., entered Ghent,
where he was received with great submission by the inhabitants, and took possession of the
town, as he likewise did of Bruges, a few days after.

The Duke of Ormonde thought, that considering the present disposition of the States towards
Britain, it might be necessary for the Queen to have some pledge from that republic in her
hands, as well as from France, by which means Her Majesty would be empowered to act the part
that best became her, of being mediator at least; and that while Ghent was in the Queen's hands,
no provisions could pass the Scheldt or the Lys without her permission, by which he had it
in his power to starve their army. The possession of these towns might likewise teach the Dutch
and Imperialists, to preserve a degree of decency and civility to Her Majesty, which both of
them were upon some occasions too apt to forget: and besides, there was already in the town
of Ghent, a battalion of British troops and a detachment of five hundred men in the citadel,
together with a great quantity of ammunition stores for the service of the war, which would
certainly have been seized or embezzled; so that no service could be more seasonable or useful
in the present juncture than this, which the Queen highly approved, and left the Duke a discretionary
power to act as he thought fit on any future emergency.

I have a little interrupted the order of time, in relating the Duke of Ormonde's proceedings,
who, after having placed a garrison at Bruges, and sent a supply of men and ammunition to Dunkirk,
retired to Ghent, where he continued some months, till he had leave to return to England.

Upon the arrival of Colonel Disney[14] at court, with an account that Mr. Hill had taken possession
of Dunkirk, an universal joy spread over the kingdom, this event being looked on as the certain
forerunner of a peace: besides, the French faith was in so ill a reputation among us, that
many persons, otherwise sanguine enough, could never bring themselves to believe, that the
town would be delivered, till certain intelligence came that it was actually in our hands.
Neither were the ministers themselves altogether at ease, or free from suspicion, whatever
countenance they made; for they knew very well, that the French King had many plausible reasons
to elude his promise, if he found cause to repent it. One condition of surrendering Dunkirk,
being a general armistice of all the troops in the British pay, which Her Majesty was not able
to perform; and upon this failure, the Maréchal de Villars (as we have before related) endeavoured
to dissuade his court from accepting the conditions: and in the very interval, while those
difficulties were adjusting, the Maréchal d'Uxelles, one of the French plenipotentiaries at
Utrecht (whose inclinations, as well as those of his colleague Mons. Mesnager, led him to favour
the States more than Britain) assured the lord privy seal, that the Dutch were then pressing
to enter into separate measures with his master: and his lordship, in a visit to the Abbé de
Polignac, observing a person to withdraw as he entered the abbé's chamber, was told by this
minister, that the person he saw was one Molo, of Amsterdam, mentioned before, a famous agent
for the States with France, who had been entertaining him (the abbé) upon the same subject,
but that he had refused to treat with Molo, without the privity of England.

[Footnote 14: Colonel Disney or Desnée, called "Duke" Disney, was one of the members of the
Brothers Club, a boon companion of Bolingbroke, and, as Swift says, "not an old man, but an
old rake." From various sources we gather that he was a high liver, and not very nice in his
ways of high living. In spite, however, of his undoubted profligacy, he must have been a man
of good nature and a kindly heart, since he received affectionate record from Gay, Pope, and
Swift. Mr. Walter Sichel quotes from "an unfinished sketch of a larger poem," by Lady Mary
Wortley Montagu, in which Disney's worst characteristics are held up to ridicule. ("Bolingbroke
and his Times," pp. 288-290). Swift often refers to him in his "Journal." [T.S.]]

Mr. Harley, whom we mentioned above to have been sent early in the spring to Utrecht, continued
longer in Holland than was at first expected; but having received Her Majesty's farther instructions,
was about this time arrived at Hanover. It was the misfortune of his Electoral Highness, to
be very ill served by Mons. Bothmar, his envoy here, who assisted at all the factious meetings
of the discontented party, and deceived his master by a false representation of the kingdom,
drawn from the opinion of those to whom he confined his conversation. There was likewise at
the Elector's court a little Frenchman, without any merit or consequence, called Robethon,[15]
who, by the assistance and encouragement of the last ministry, had insinuated himself into
some degree of that prince's favour, which he used in giving his master the worst impressions
he was able, of those whom the Queen employed in her service; insinuating, that the present
ministers were not in the interest of his Highness's family; that their views were towards
the Pretender; that they were making an unsecure and dishonourable peace; that the weight of
the nation was against them; and that it was impossible for them to preserve much longer their
credit or power.

[Footnote 15: One of the Elector's privy councillors. See note, vol. v., p. 468. "As little
a fellow as Robethon is," wrote Bolingbroke to Thomas Harley, "I have reason to believe that
most of the ill impressions which have been given at that court have chiefly come from him;
and as I know him to be mercenary, I doubt not but he has found his account in this his management."
(Bol., "Correspondence," vol. ii., p. 385). [T.S.]]

The Earl Rivers had, in the foregoing year, been sent to Hanover, in order to undeceive the
Elector, and remove whatever prejudices might be infused into his Highness against Her Majesty's
proceedings; but it should seem that he had no very great success in his negotiation: for soon
after his return to England, Mons. Bothmar's "Memorial" appeared in the manner I have already
related, which discovered the sentiments of his electoral Highness (if they were truly represented
in that "Memorial") to differ not a little from those of the Queen. Mr. Harley was therefore
directed to take the first opportunity of speaking to the Elector in private, to assure him,
"That although Her Majesty had thought herself justly provoked by the conduct of his minister,
yet such was her affection for his Highness, and concern for the interests of his family, that
instead of showing the least mark of resentment, she had chosen to send him (Mr. Harley) fully
instructed to open her designs, and shew his Highness the real interest of Britain in the present
conjuncture." Mr. Harley was to give the Elector a true account of what had passed in England,
during the first part of this session of Parliament; to expose to his Highness the weakness
of those with whom his minister had consulted, and under whose directions he had acted; to
convince him how much lower that faction must become, when a peace should be concluded, and
when the natural strength of the kingdom, disencumbered from the burthen of the war, should
be at liberty to exert itself; to shew him how his interest in the succession was sacrificed
to that of a party: that his Highness had been hitherto a friend to both sides, but that the
measures taken by his ministers, had tended only to set him at the head of one in opposition
to the other: to explain to the Elector, how fully the safety of Europe was provided for by
the plan of peace in Her Majesty's speech; and how little reason those would appear to have,
who complained the loudest of this plan, if it were compared either with our engagements to
them when we began the war, or with their performances in the course of it.

Upon this occasion Mr, Harley was to observe to the Elector, "That it should rather be wondered
at, how the Queen had brought France to offer so much, than yet to offer no more; because,
as soon as ever it appeared, that Her Majesty would be at the head of this treaty, and that
the interests of Britain were to be provided for, such endeavours were used to break off the
negotiation, as are hardly to be paralleled; and the disunion thereby created among the allies,
had given more opportunities to the enemy, of being slow in their concessions, than any other
measures might possibly have done: That this want of concert among the allies, could not in
any sort be imputed to the Queen, who had all along invited them to it with the greatest earnestness,
as the surest means to bring France to reason: That she had always, in a particular manner,
pressed the States General to come into the strictest union with her, and opened to them her
intentions with the greatest freedom; but finding, that instead of concurring with Her Majesty,
they were daily carrying on intrigues to break off the negotiation, and thereby deprive her
of the advantages she might justly expect from the ensuing peace, having no other way left,
she was forced to act with France as she did, by herself: That, however, the Queen had not
taken upon herself to determine the interests of the allies, who were at liberty of insisting
on farther pretensions, wherein Her Majesty would not be wanting to support them as far as
she was able, and improve the concessions already made by France; in which case, a good understanding
and harmony among the confederates, would yet be of the greatest use for making the enemy more
tractable and easy."

I have been more particular in reciting the substance of Mr. Harley's instructions, because
it will serve as a recapitulation of what I have already said upon this subject, and seems
to set Her Majesty's intentions, and proceedings at this time, in the clearest light.

After the cessation of arms declared by the Duke of Ormonde, upon the delivery of Dunkirk,
the British plenipotentiaries very earnestly pressed those of Holland to come into a general
armistice; for if the whole confederacy acted in conjunction, this would certainly be the best
means for bringing the common enemy to reasonable terms of peace: but the States, deluded by
the boundless promises of Count Zinzendorf, and the undertaking talent of Prince Eugene, who
dreaded the conclusion of the war, as the period of his glory, would not hear of a cessation.
The loss of eighteen thousand Britons was not a diminution of weight in the balance of such
an ally as the Emperor, and such a general as the Prince. Besides, they looked upon themselves
to be still superior to France in the field; and although their computation was certainly right
in point of number, yet, in my opinion, the conclusion drawn from it, was grounded upon a great
mistake. I have been assured by several persons of our own country, and some foreigners of
the first rank, both for skill and station in arms, that in most victories obtained in the
present war, the British troops were ever employed in the post of danger and honour, and usually
began the attack (being allowed to be naturally more fearless than the people of any other
country), by which they were not only an example of courage to the rest, but must be acknowledged,
without partiality, to have governed the fortune of the day; since it is known enough, how
small a part of an army is generally engaged in any battle. It may likewise be added, that
nothing is of greater moment in war than opinion. The French, by their frequent losses, which
they chiefly attributed to the courage of our men, believed that a British general, at the
head of British troops, was not to be overcome; and the Maréchal de Villars was quickly sensible
of the advantage he had got; for, in a very few days after the desertion of the allies, happened
the Earl of Albemarle's disgrace at Denain, by a feint of the Maréchal's, and a manifest failure
somewhere or other, both of courage and conduct on the side of the confederates. The blame
of which was equally shared between Prince Eugene and the Earl; although it is certain, the
Duke of Ormonde gave the latter timely warning of his danger, observing he was neither intrenched
as he ought, nor provided with bridges sufficient for the situation he was in, and at such
a distance from the main army.[16]

[Footnote 16: It is alleged by the continuator of Rapin, that the surprise and defeat of the
confederated troops under the Earl of Albemarle, at Denain, was, in a great measure, owing
to the Duke of Ormonde having, in spite of all remonstrance, reclaimed and carried off certain
pontoons which had been lent to the allies. For Prince Eugene having received intelligence
of the design against Albemarle, marched to his succour; but the bridge having broken under
the quantity of the baggage which had been transported across the Scheldt, he could only remain
the spectator of their misfortune. [S.]]

The Marquis de Torcy had likewise the same sentiments, of what mighty consequence those few
British battalions were to the confederate army; since he advised his master to deliver up
Dunkirk, although the Queen could not perform the condition understood, which was a cessation
of arms of all the foreign forces in her pay.

It must be owned, that Mons. de Torcy made great merit of this confidence that his master placed
in the Queen; and observing Her Majesty's displeasure against the Dutch, on account of their
late proceedings, endeavoured to inflame it with aggravations enough; insinuating, "That, since
the States had acted so ungratefully, the Queen should let her forces join with those of France,
in order to compel the confederates to a peace." But although this overture were very tenderly
hinted from the French court, Her Majesty heard it with the utmost abhorrence; and ordered
her secretary, Mr. St. John (created about this time Viscount Bolingbroke),[17] to tell Mons.
de Torcy, "That no provocations whatever should tempt her to distress her allies; but she would
endeavour to bring them to reason by fair means, or leave them to their own conduct: That if
the former should be found impracticable, she would then make her own peace, and content herself
with doing the office of a mediator between both parties: but if the States should at any time
come to a better mind, and suffer their ministers to act in conjunction with hers, she would
assert their just interests to the utmost, and make no farther progress in any treaty with
France, until those allies received all reasonable satisfaction, both as to their barrier and
their trade." The British plenipotentiaries were directed to give the same assurances to the
Dutch ministers at Utrecht, and withal to let them know, "That the Queen was determined, by
their late conduct, to make peace either with or without them; but would much rather choose
the former."

[Footnote 17: Bolingbroke had understood that he would not lose rank on his promotion, from
which he concluded that the earldom of Bolingbroke, extinct in his family, would be revived
in his favour. His indignation, however, was very keen when he was created only a Viscount.
He wrote to Strafford at Utrecht, that his promotion had been a mortification to him. "In the
House of Commons," he said, "I may say that I was at the head of business. ... There was, therefore,
nothing to flatter my ambition in removing me from thence, but giving me the title which had
been many years in my family, and which reverted to the Crown about a year ago, by the death
of the last of the elder house. ... I own to you that I felt more indignation than ever in
my life I had done." (Letter to the Earl of Strafford, July 23, 1712). [T.S.]]

There was, however, one advantage which Her Majesty resolved to make by this defection of her
foreigners. She had been led, by the mistaken politics of some years past, to involve herself
in several guaranties with the princes of the north, which were, in some sort, contradictory
to one another; but this conduct of theirs wholly annulled all such engagements, and left her
at liberty to interpose in the affairs of those parts of Europe, in such a manner as would
best serve the interests of her own kingdoms, as well as that of the Protestant religion, and
settle a due balance of power in the north.

The grand article for preventing the union of France and Spain, was to be executed during a
cessation of arms. But many difficulties arising about that, and some other points of great
importance to the common cause, which could not easily be adjusted either between the French
and British plenipotentiaries at Utrecht, or by correspondence between Mons. de Torcy and the
ministry here; the Queen took the resolution of sending the Lord Viscount Bolingbroke immediately
to France, fully instructed in all her intentions, and authorized to negotiate every thing
necessary for settling the treaty of peace in such a course, as might bring it to a happy and
speedy conclusion. He was empowered to agree to a general suspension of arms, by sea and land,
between Great Britain, France and Spain, to continue for four months, or until the conclusion
of the peace; provided France and Spain would previously give positive assurances to make good
the terms demanded by Her Majesty for the Duke of Savoy, and would likewise adjust and determine
the forms of the several renunciations to be made by both those crowns, in order to prevent
their being ever united. The Lord Bolingbroke was likewise authorized to settle some differences
relating to the Elector of Bavaria, for whose interests France was as much concerned as Her
Majesty was for those of the Duke of Savoy; to explain all doubtful articles which particularly
related to the advantages of Britain; to know the real ultimatum, as it is termed, of France
upon the general plan of peace; and lastly, to cut off all hopes from that court of ever bringing
the Queen to force her allies to a disadvantageous peace; Her Majesty resolving to impose no
scheme at all upon them, or to debar them from the liberty of endeavouring to obtain the best
conditions they could.

The Lord Bolingbroke went to France in the beginning of August,[18] was received at court with
particular marks of distinction and respect; and in a very few days, by his usual address and
ability, performed every part of his commission, extremely to the Queen's content and his own
honour. ("Journal to Stella," August 7th, 1712. See vol. ii., p. 381 of present edition). The
result of Bolingbroke's visit was the signing, on August 19th, of an agreement for the suspension
of arms for four months. Torcy's reception of Bolingbroke was so managed that the bon vivant
peer had as pleasant a time as he could well have wished. How much influence that had on Bolingbroke
we can only speculate; but it is certain that he would have made a separate peace with France,
after his return, had Oxford been willing. See Torcy's "Mémoires" (vol. ii., p. 202). "Bolingbroke
avoit conseillé à la Reine sa maîtresse de préférer une paix particulière à la suspension d'armes,
et d'assurer au plus tôt à ses sujets la jouissance de toutes les conditions dont le Roi étoit
convenu en faveur de l'Angleterre." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 19: There is a long letter from Lord Bolingbroke to Mr. Prior, on the subject of
this negotiation, printed in Scott's edition of Swift, vol. xv., pp. 524-529. [W.S.J.]]

In the mean time the general conferences at Utrecht, which for several weeks had been let fall,
since the delivery of Dunkirk, were now resumed. But the Dutch still declaring against a suspension
of arms, and refusing to accept the Queen's speech as a plan to negotiate upon, there was no
progress made for some time in the great work of the peace. Whereupon the British plenipotentiaries
told those of the States, "That if the Queen's endeavours could not procure more than the contents
of her speech, or if the French should ever fall short of what was there offered, the Dutch
could blame none but themselves, who, by their conduct, had rendered things difficult, that
would otherwise have been easy." However, Her Majesty thought it prudent to keep the States
still in hopes of her good offices, to prevent them from taking the desperate course of leaving
themselves wholly at the mercy of France; which was an expedient they formerly practised, and
which a party among them was now inclined to advise.

Whilst the congress at Utrecht remained in this inactive state, the Queen proceeded to perfect
that important article for preventing the union of France and Spain. It was proposed and accepted,
that Philip should renounce France, for himself and his posterity; and that the Most Christian
King, and all the princes of his blood, should, in the like manner, renounce Spain.

It must be confessed, that this project of renunciation lay under a great disrepute, by the
former practices of this very King, Lewis XIV. pursuant to an absurd notion among many in that
kingdom, of a divine right, annexed to proximity of blood, not to be controlled by any human law.

But it is plain, the French themselves had recourse to this method, after all their infractions
of it, since the Pyrenean treaty; for the first dauphin, in whom the original claim was vested,
renounced, for himself and his eldest son, which opened the way to Philip Duke of Anjou; who
would however hardly have succeeded, if it had not been for the will made in his favour by
the last King, Charles II.

It is indeed hard to reflect, with any patience, upon the unaccountable stupidity of the princes
of Europe for some centuries past, who left a probability to France of succeeding in a few
ages to all their dominions; whilst, at the same time, no alliance with that kingdom could
be of advantage to any prince, by reason of the salique law. Should not common prudence have
taught every sovereign in Christendom to enact a salique law, with respect to France; for want
of which, it is almost a miracle, that the Bourbon family hath not possessed the universal
monarchy by right of inheritance? When the French assert a proximity of blood gives a divine
right, as some of their ministers, who ought to be more wise or honest, have lately advanced
in this very case, to the title of Spain; do they not, by allowing a French succession, make
their own kings usurpers? Or, if the salique law be divine, is it not of universal obligation,
and consequently of force, to exclude France from inheriting by daughters? Or, lastly, if that
law be of human institution, may it not be enacted in any state, with whatever extent or limitation
the legislature shall think fit? For the notion of an unchangeable human law is an absurdity
in government, to be believed only by ignorance, and supported by power. From hence it follows,
that the children of the late Queen of France, although she had renounced, were as legally
excluded from succeeding to Spain, as if the salique law had been fundamental in that kingdom;
since that exclusion was established by every power in Spain, which could possibly give a sanction
to any law there; and therefore the Duke of Anjou's title is wholly founded upon the bequest
of his predecessor (which hath great authority in that monarchy, as it formerly had in ours),
upon the confirmation of the Cortes, and the general consent of the people.

It is certain, the faith of princes is so frequently subservient to their ambition, that renunciations
have little validity, otherwise than from the powers and parties whose interest it is to support
them. But this renunciation, which the Queen hath exacted from the French King and his grandson,
I take to be armed with all the essential circumstances that can fortify such an act. For as
it is necessary, for the security of every prince in Europe, that those two great kingdoms
should never be united; so the chief among them will readily consent to be guarantees for preventing
such a misfortune.

Besides, this proposal (according to Her Majesty's expression in her speech) is of such a nature,
that it executes itself; because the Spaniards, who dread such an union, for every reason that
can have weight among men, took care that their king should not only renounce, in the most
solemn manner; but likewise, that the act should be framed in the strongest terms themselves
could invent, or we could furnish them with. As to France, upon supposal of the young dauphin's
dying in a few years, that kingdom will not be in a condition to engage in a long war against
a powerful alliance, fortified with the addition of the Spaniards, and the party of the Duke
of Berry, or whoever else shall be next claimer: and the longer the present dauphin lives,
the weaker must Philip's interest be in France; because the princes, who are to succeed by
this renunciation, will have most power and credit in the kingdom.

The mischiefs occasioned by the want of a good understanding between the allies, especially
Britain and Holland, were raised every day; the French taking the advantage, and raising difficulties,
not only upon the general plan of peace, but likewise upon the explanation of several articles
in the projected treaty between them and Her Majesty: They insisted to have Lille, as the equivalent
for Dunkirk; and demanded Tournay, Maubeuge, and Condé, for the two or three towns mentioned
in the Queen's speech; which the British plenipotentiaries were so far from allowing, that
they refused to confer with those of France upon that foot; although, at the same time, the
former had fresh apprehensions that the Dutch, in a fit of despair, would accept whatever terms
the enemy pleased to offer, and, by precipitating their own peace, prevent Her Majesty from
obtaining any advantages, both for her allies and herself.

It is most certain, that the repeated losses suffered by the States, in little more than two
months after they had withdrawn themselves from the Queen's assistance, did wholly disconcert
their counsels;[20] and their prudence (as it is usual) began to forsake them with their good
fortune. They were so weak as to be still deluded by their friends in England, who continued
to give them hopes of some mighty and immediate resource from hence; for when the Duke of Ormonde
had been about a month in Ghent, he received a letter from the Maréchal de Villars, to inform
him, that the Dutch generals, taken at Denain, had told the maréchal publicly, of a sudden
revolution expected in Britain; that particularly the Earl of Albemarle and Mons. Hompesch
discoursed very freely of it, and that nothing was more commonly talked of in Holland. It was
then likewise confidently reported in Ghent, that the Queen was dead; and we all remember what
rumour flew about here at the very same time, as if Her Majesty's health were in a bad condition.

[Footnote 20: The Dutch had been defeated at Douay, and the Allies had suffered reverses by
the reduction of Quesnoy and Bouchain. [T.S.]]

Whether such vain hopes as these gave spirit to the Dutch; whether their frequent misfortunes
made them angry and sullen; whether they still expected to overreach us by some private stipulations
with France, through the mediation of the Elector of Bavaria, as that prince afterwards gave
out; or whatever else was the cause, they utterly refused a cessation of arms; and made not
the least return to all the advances and invitations made by Her Majesty, until the close of
the campaign.

It was then the States first began to view their affairs in another light; to consider how
little the vast promises of Count Zinzendorf were to be relied on; to be convinced that France
was not disposed to break with Her Majesty, only to gratify their ill humour, or unreasonable
demands; to discover that their factious correspondents on this side the water had shamefully
misled them; that some of their own principal towns grew heartily weary of the war, and backward
in their loans; and, lastly, that Prince Eugene, their new general, whether his genius or fortune
had left him, was not for their turn. They, therefore, directed their ministers at Utrecht
to signify to the lord privy seal and the Earl of Strafford, "That the States were disposed
to comply with Her Majesty, and to desire her good offices with France; particularly, that
Tournay and Condé might be left to them as part of their barrier, without which they could
not be safe: That the Elector of Bavaria might not be suffered to retain any town in the Netherlands,
which would be as bad for Holland as if those places were in the hands of France: Therefore
the States proposed, that Luxembourg, Namur, Charleroy, and Nieuport, might be delivered to
the Emperor. Lastly, That the French might not insist on excepting the four species of goods
out of the tariff of one thousand six hundred and sixty-four: That if Her Majesty could prevail
with France to satisfy their masters on these articles, they would be ready to submit in all
the rest."

When the Queen received an account of this good disposition in the States General, immediately
orders were sent to Mr. Prior, to inform the ministers of the French court, "That Her Majesty
had now some hopes of the Dutch complying with her measures; and therefore she resolved, as
she had always declared, whenever those allies came to themselves, not to make the peace without
their reasonable satisfaction." The difficulty that most pressed, was about the disposal of
Tournay and Condé. The Dutch insisted strongly to have both, and the French were extremely
unwilling to part with either.

The Queen judged the former would suffice, for completing the barrier of the States. Mr. Prior
was therefore directed to press the Marquis de Torcy effectually on this head, and to terminate
all that minister's objections, by assuring him of Her Majesty's resolutions to appear openly
on the side of the Dutch, if this demand were refused. It was thought convenient to act in
this resolute manner with France, whose late success, against Holland, had taught the ministers
of the Most Christian King to resume their old imperious manner of treating with that republic;
to which they were farther encouraged by the ill understanding between Her Majesty and the allies.

This appeared from the result of an idle quarrel that happened, about the end of August,[21]
at Utrecht, between a French and a Dutch plenipotentiary, Mons. Mesnager and Count Rechteren;[22]
wherein the court of France demanded such abject submissions, and with so much haughtiness,
as plainly shewed they were pleased with any occasion of mortifying the Dutch.

[Footnote 21: July. [S]]

[Footnote 22: See note on p. 95. [T.S.]]

Besides, the politics of the French ran at this time very opposite to those of Britain: They
thought the ministers here durst not meet the Parliament without a peace; and that, therefore,
Her Majesty would either force the States to comply with France, by delivering up Tournay,
which was the principal point in dispute, or would finish her own peace with France and Spain,
leaving a fixed time for Holland to refuse or accept the terms imposed on them. But the Queen,
who thought the demand of Tournay by the States to be very necessary and just, was determined
to insist upon it, and to declare openly against France, rather than suffer her ally to want
a place so useful for their barrier. And Mr. Prior was ordered to signify this resolution of
Her Majesty to Mons. de Torcy, in case that minister could not be otherwise prevailed on.

The British plenipotentiaries did likewise, at the same time, express to those of Holland Her
Majesty's great satisfaction, that the States were at last disposed to act in confidence with
her: "That she wished this resolution had been sooner taken, since nobody had gained by the
delay, but the French King; that, however, Her Majesty did not question the procuring a safe
and honourable peace, by united counsels, reasonable demands, and prudent measures; that she
would assist them in getting whatever was necessary to their barrier, and in settling, to their
satisfaction, the exceptions made by France out of the tariff of one thousand six hundred and
sixty-four; that no other difficulties remained of moment to retard the peace, since the Queen
had obtained Sicily for the Duke of Savoy; and, in the settlement of the Low Countries, would
adhere to what she delivered from the throne: That as to the empire, Her Majesty heartily wished
their barrier as good as could be desired; but that we were not now in circumstances to expect
every thing exactly according to the scheme of Holland: France had already offered a great
part, and the Queen did not think the remainder worth the continuance of the war."

Her Majesty conceived the peace in so much forwardness, that she thought fit, about this time,
to nominate the Duke of Hamilton and the Lord Lexington for ambassadors in France and Spain,
to receive the renunciations in both courts, and adjust matters of commerce.

The duke[23] was preparing for his journey, when he was challenged to a duel[24] by the Lord
Mohun,[25] a person of infamous character. He killed his adversary upon the spot, though he
himself received a wound; and, weakened by the loss of blood, as he was leaning in the arms
of his second, was most barbarously stabbed in the breast by Lieutenant-General Macartney,[26]
who was second to Lord Mohun. He died a few minutes after in the field, and the murderer made
his escape. I thought so surprising an event might deserve barely to be related, although it
be something foreign to my subject.

[Footnote 23: James, Duke of Hamilton, was a gentleman of the bed-chamber to King Charles II.
He succeeded his father in the title, April 18th, 1694, and was sent the same year envoy extraordinary
to France; ... he was killed, November 15th, 1712. [S.]]

[Footnote 24: Swift's account of the duel is exactly agreeable to the depositions of Colonel
Hamilton before a committee of the council. [S.]]

[Footnote 25: Charles Lord Mohun was the last offspring of a very noble and ancient family,
of which William de Mohun, who accompanied the Norman conqueror, was the first founder in England.
[S.]]

[Footnote 26: General Macartney was tried, at the King's Bench bar, for the murder, June 13th,
1716; and the jury found him guilty of man-slaughter. [S.]]

The Earl of Strafford, who had come to England in May last,[27] in order to give Her Majesty
an account of the disposition of affairs in Holland, was now returning with her last instructions,
to let the Dutch minister know, "That some points would probably meet with difficulties not
to be overcome, which once might have been easily obtained: To shew what evil consequences
had already flowed from their delay and irresolution, and to entreat them to fix on some proposition,
reasonable in itself, as well as possible to be effected: That the Queen would insist upon
the cession of Tournay by France, provided the States would concur in finishing the peace,
without starting new objections, or insisting upon farther points: That the French demands,
in favour of the Elector of Bavaria, appeared to be such as, the Queen was of opinion, the
States ought to agree to; which were, to leave the Elector in possession of Luxembourg, Namur,
and Charleroy, subject to the terms of their barrier, until he should be restored to his electorate;
and to give him the kingdom of Sardinia, to efface the stain of his degradation in the electoral
college: That the earl had brought over a project of a new Treaty of Succession and Barrier,
which Her Majesty insisted the States should sign, before the conclusion of the peace; the
former treaty having been disadvantageous to her subjects, containing in it the seeds of future
dissensions, and condemned by the sense of the nation. Lastly, That Her Majesty, notwithstanding
all provocations, had, for the sake of the Dutch, and in hopes of their recovery from those
false notions which had so long misled them, hitherto kept the negotiations open: That the
offers now made them were her last, and this the last time she would apply to them: That they
must either agree, or expect the Queen would proceed immediately to conclude her treaty with
France and Spain, in conjunction with such of her allies as would think fit to adhere to her.

[Footnote 27: "Come to England in ... last" in original edition. The word "May" was supplied
in the edition of 1775. [W.S.J.]]

"As to Savoy, that the Queen expected the States would concur with her in making good the advantages
stipulated for that duke, and in prevailing with the Emperor to consent to an absolute neutrality
in Italy, until the peace should be concluded."

The governing party in Holland, however in appearance disposed to finish, affected new delays,
and raised many difficulties about the four species of goods, which the French had excepted
out of the tariff. Count Zinzendorf, the Emperor's plenipotentiary, did all that was possible
to keep up this humour in the Dutch, in hopes to put them under a necessity of preparing for
the next campaign; and some time after went so far in this pursuit, that he summoned the several
ministers of the empire, and told them he had letters from his master, with orders to signify
to them, "That his Imperial Majesty resolved to begin the campaign early, with all his forces
united against France; of which he desired they would send notice to all their courts, that
the several princes might be ready to furnish their contingents and recruits." At the same
time Zinzendorf endeavoured to borrow two millions of florins upon the security of some imperial
cities; but could not succeed either amongst the Jews or at Amsterdam.

When the Earl of Strafford arrived at Utrecht, the lord privy seal and he communicated to the
Dutch ministers the new Treaty for a Succession and Barrier, as the Queen had ordered it to
be prepared here in England, differing from the former in several points of the greatest moment,
obvious to any who will be at the pains to compare them. This was strenuously opposed for several
weeks by the plenipotentiaries of the States; but the province of Utrecht, where the congress
was held, immediately sent orders to their representatives at The Hague, to declare their province
thankful to the Queen; that they agreed the peace should be made on the terms proposed by France,
and consented to the new projected Treaty of Barrier and Succession: and about the close of
the year, one thousand seven hundred and twelve, four of the seven provinces, had delivered
their opinions for putting an end to the war.

This unusual precipitation in the States, so different from the whole tenor of their former
conduct, was very much suspected by the British plenipotentiaries. Their Lordships had received
intelligence, that the Dutch ministers held frequent conferences with those of France, and
had offered to settle their interests with that crown, without the concurrence of Britain.
Count Zinzendorf, and his colleagues, appeared likewise, all on the sudden, to have the same
dispositions, and to be in great haste to settle their several differences with the States.
The reasons for this proceeding were visible enough; many difficulties were yet undetermined
in the treaty of commerce between Her Majesty and France, for the adjusting of which, and some
other points, the Queen had lately dispatched the Duke of Shrewsbury to that court. Some of
these were of hard digestion, with which the Most Christian King would not be under a necessity
of complying, when he had no farther occasion for us, and might, upon that account, afford
better terms to the other two powers. Besides, the Emperor and the States could very well spare
Her Majesty the honour of being arbitrator of a general peace; and the latter hoped by this
means, to avoid the new Treaty of Barrier and Succession, which we were now forcing on them.

To prevent the consequences of this evil, there fortunately fell out an incident, which the
two lords at Utrecht knew well how to make use of: the quarrel between Mons. Mesnager and Count
Rechteren (formerly mentioned) had not yet been made up. The French and Dutch differing in
some circumstances, about the satisfaction to be given by the count for the affront he had
offered, the British plenipotentiaries kept this dispute on foot for several days; and, in
the mean time, pressed the Dutch to finish the new Treaty of Barrier and Succession between
Her Majesty and them, which, about the middle of January, was concluded fully to the Queen's
satisfaction.

But while these debates and differences continued at the congress, the Queen resolved to put
a speedy end to her part in the war; she therefore sent orders to the lord privy seal, and
the Earl of Stafford, to prepare every thing necessary for signing her own treaty with France.
This she hoped might be done against the meeting of her Parliament, now prorogued to the third
of February; in which time, those among the allies, who were really inclined towards a peace,
might settle their several interests by the assistance and support of Her Majesty's plenipotentiaries;
and as for the rest, who would either refuse to comply, or endeavour to protract the negotiation,
the heads of their respective demands, which France had yielded by Her Majesty's intervention,
and agreeable to the plan laid down in her speech, should be mentioned in the treaty, and a
time limited for the several powers concerned to receive or reject them.

The Pretender was not yet gone out of France, upon some difficulties alleged by the French,
about procuring him a safe conduct to Bar-le-duc, in the Duke of Lorraine's dominions, where
it was then proposed he should reside. The Queen, altogether bent upon quieting the minds of
her subjects, declared, she would not sign the peace till that person were removed; although
several wise men believed he could be no where less dangerous to Britain, than in the place
where he was.

The argument which most prevailed on the States to sign the new Treaty of Barrier and Succession
with Britain, was Her Majesty's promise to procure Tournay for them from France; after which,
no more differences remained between us and that republic, and consequently they had no farther
temptations to any separate transactions with the French, who thereupon began to renew their
litigious and haughty manner of treating with the Dutch. The satisfaction they extorted for
the affront given by Count Rechteren to Mons. Mesnager, although somewhat softened by the British
ministers at Utrecht, was yet so rigorous, that Her Majesty could not forbear signifying her
resentment of it to the Most Christian King. Mons. Mesnager, who seemed to have more the genius
of a merchant than a minister, began, in his conferences with the plenipotentiaries of the
States, to raise new disputes upon points which both we and they had reckoned upon as wholly
settled. The Abbé de Polignac, a most accomplished person, of great generosity and universal
understanding, was gone to France to receive the cardinal's cap; and the Maréchal d'Uxelles
was wholly guided by his colleague, Mons. Mesnager, who kept up those brangles, that for a
time obstructed the peace; some of which were against all justice, and others of small importance,
both of very little advantage to his country, and less to the reputation of his master or himself.
This low talent in business, which the Cardinal de Polignac used, in contempt, to call a "spirit
of negotiating," made it impossible for the two lords plenipotentiaries, with all their abilities
and experience, to bring Mesnager to reason, in several points both with us and the States:
his concessions were few and constrained, serving only to render him more tenacious of what
he refused. In several of the towns, which the States were to keep, he insisted that France
should retain the chatellanies, or extent of country depending on them, particularly that of
Tournay; a demand the more unjustifiable, because he knew his master had not only proceeded
directly contrary, but had erected a court in his kingdom, where his own judges extended the
territories about those towns he had taken, as far as he pleased to direct them. Mons. Mesnager
showed equal obstinacy in what his master expected for the Elector of Bavaria, and in refusing
the tariff of one thousand six hundred and sixty-four: so that the Queen's plenipotentiaries
represented these difficulties as what might be of dangerous consequence, both to the peace
in general, and to the States in particular, if they were not speedily prevented.

Upon these considerations Her Majesty thought it her shortest and safest course to apply directly
to France, where she had then so able a minister as the Duke of Shrewsbury.[28]

[Footnote 28: Shrewsbury had been appointed the Duke of Hamilton's successor. [T.S.]]

The Marquis de Torcy, secretary to the Most Christian King, was the minister with whom the
Duke was to treat, as having been the first who moved his master to apply to the Queen for
a peace, in opposition to a violent faction in that kingdom, who were as eagerly bent to continue
the war, as any other could be either here or in Holland.

It would be very unlike a historian, to refuse this great minister the praise he so justly
deserveth, of having treated, through the whole course of so great a negotiation, with the
utmost candour and integrity; never once failing in any promise he made, and tempering a firm
zeal to his master's interest, with a ready compliance to what was reasonable and just. Mr.
Prior, whom I have formerly mentioned, resided likewise now at Paris, with the character of
minister plenipotentiary, and was very acceptable to that court, upon the score of his wit
and humour.[29]

[Footnote 29: P. Fitzgerald adds, "as well as useful to Her Majesty by his knowledge and dexterity
in the management of affairs." [W.S.J.]]

The Duke of Shrewsbury was directed to press the French court upon the points yet unsettled
in the treaty of commerce between both crowns; to make them drop their unreasonable demands
for the Elector of Bavaria; to let them know, that the Queen was resolved not to forsake her
allies who were now ready to come in; that she thought the best way of hastening the general
peace, was to determine her own particular one with France, until which time she could not
conveniently suffer her Parliament to meet.

The States were, by this time, so fully convinced of the Queen's sincerity and affection to
their republic, and how much they had been deceived by the insinuations of the factious party
in England, that they wrote a very humble letter to Her Majesty, to desire her assistance towards
settling those points they had in dispute with France, and professing themselves ready to acquiesce
in whatever explanation Her Majesty would please to make of the plan proposed in her speech
to the Parliament.

But the Queen had already prevented their desires; and in the beginning of February, one thousand
seven hundred and twelve-thirteen, directed the Duke of Shrewsbury to inform the French court,
"That since she had prevailed on her allies, the Dutch, to drop the demand of Condé, and the
other of the four species of goods, which the French had excepted out of the tariff of one
thousand six hundred and sixty-four, she would not sign without them: That she approved of
the Dutch insisting to have the chatellanies restored, with the towns, and was resolved to
stand or fall with them, until they were satisfied in this point."

Her Majesty had some apprehensions, that the French created these difficulties on purpose to
spin out the treaty, until the campaign should begin. They thought it absolutely necessary,
that our Parliament should meet in a few weeks, which could not well be ventured, until the
Queen were able to tell both Houses, that her own peace was signed: That this would not only
facilitate what remained in difference between Britain and France, but leave the Dutch entirely
at the mercy of the latter.

The Queen, weary of these refined mistakes in the French politics, and fully resolved to be
trifled with no longer, sent her determinate orders to the Duke of Shrewsbury, to let France
know, "That Her Majesty had hitherto prorogued her Parliament, in hopes of accommodating the
difficulties in her own treaties of peace and commerce with that crown, as well as settling
the interests of her several allies; or, at least, that the differences in the former being
removed, the Most Christian King would have made such offers for the latter, as might justify
Her Majesty in signing her own peace, whether the confederates intended to sign theirs or no.
But several points being yet unfinished between both crowns, and others between France and
the rest of the allies, especially the States, to which the plenipotentiaries of that court
at Utrecht had not thought fit to give satisfaction; the Queen was now come to a final determination,
both with relation to her own kingdoms, and to the whole alliance: That the campaign approaching,
she would not willingly be surprised in case the war was to go on: That she had transmitted
to the Duke of Shrewsbury her last resolutions, and never would be prevailed on to reduce her
own demands, or those of her allies, any lower than the scheme now sent over, as an explanation
of the plan laid down in her speech: That Her Majesty had sent orders to her plenipotentiaries
at Utrecht, to assume the character of ambassadors, and sign the peace immediately with the
ministers of the Most Christian King, as soon as the Duke of Shrewsbury should have sent them
notice that the French had complied: That the Queen had therefore farther prorogued her Parliament
to the third of March, in hopes to assure them, by that time, of her peace being agreed on;
for if the two Houses should meet, while any uncertainty remained, supplies must be asked as
for a war."

The Duke of Shrewsbury[30] executed this important commission with that speed and success,
which could only be expected from an able minister. The French King immediately yielded to
the whole scheme Her Majesty proposed; whereupon directions were sent to the lord privy seal,
and the Earl of Strafford, to sign a peace between Great Britain and France, without delay.

[Footnote 30: Swift writes to Abp. King, October 20th, 1713, that the Duke of Shrewsbury "is
the finest gentleman we have, and of an excellent understanding and capacity for business"
(Scott's edition, xvi. 71). See also Swift's remarks in "The Examiner," No. 27 (vol. ix, of
this edition, p. 171), and note in vol. v., p. 377. [W.S.J.]]

Upon the second day of March, the two British plenipotentiaries met those of the allies in
the town-house at Utrecht; where the lord privy seal addressed himself to them in a short speech,
"That the negotiation had now continued fourteen months with great slowness, which had proved
very injurious to the interests of the allies: That the Queen had stayed thus long, and stopped
the finishing of her own peace, rather than leave her allies in any uncertainty: That she hoped
they would now be all prepared to put an end to this great work; and therefore had commanded
her plenipotentiaries to tell those of the allies, That she found it necessary to conclude
her own treaty immediately; and it was her opinion, that the confederates ought to finish theirs
at the same time, to which they were now accordingly invited by Her Majesty's orders." And
lastly, his lordship declared, in the Queen's name, "That whoever could not be ready on the
day prefixed, should have a convenient time allowed them to come in."

Although the orders sent by the Queen to her plenipotentiaries were very precise, yet their
lordships did not precipitate the performance of them. They were directed to appoint as short
a day for the signing as they conveniently could; but, however, the particular day was left
to their discretion. They hoped to bring over the Dutch, and most of the other allies, to conclude
at the same time with the Queen; which, as it would certainly be more popular to their country,
so they conceived it would be more safe for themselves: besides, upon looking over their commission,
a scruple sprang in their minds, that they could not sign a particular peace with France; their
powers, as they apprehended, authorizing them only to sign a general one. Their lordships therefore
sent to England to desire new powers,[31] and, in the mean time, employed themselves with great
industry, between the ministers of France and those of the several allies, to find some expedient
for smoothing the way to an agreement among them.

[Footnote 31: "Lord Bolingbroke, who says he has not sagacity enough to find the objections
that the plenipotentiaries had made to their first full powers, for their satisfaction, sends
them a new commission, and repeats to them positive orders to sign and conclude with France....
These difficulties of the plenipotentiaries made my lord treasurer, who never failed to exert
himself when he found it absolutely necessary, think it high time to interpose his authority;....
and as his lordship never yet appeared in vain, all further obstructions at Utrecht were after
this soon removed." ("Report from the Committee of Secrecy," 1715, pp. 103, 104.) [N.]]

The Earl of Strafford went for a few days to The Hague, to inform the States of Her Majesty's
express commands to his colleague and himself, for signing the peace as soon as possible; and
to desire they would be ready at the same time: which the pensionary promised; and that their
plenipotentiaries should be empowered accordingly, to the great contentment of Mons. Buys,
who was now so much altered, either in reality, or appearance, that he complained to the Earl
of Mons. Heinsius's slowness; and charged all the delays and mismanagements of a twelvemonth
past to that minister's account.

While the Earl of Strafford stayed at The Hague, he discovered that an emissary of the Duke
of Marlborough's had been there some days before, sent by his grace to dissuade the Dutch from
signing at the same time with the ministers of the Queen, which, in England, would at least
have the appearance of a separate peace, and oblige their British friends, who knew how to
turn so short a delay to very good account, as well as gratify the Emperor; on whom, it was
alleged, they ought to rely much more than on Her Majesty. One of the States likewise told
the Earl, "That the same person, employed by the Duke, was then in conference with the magistrates
of Rotterdam (which town had declared for the continuance of the war), to assure them, if they
would hold off a little, they should see an unexpected turn in the British Parliament: That
the Duke of Marlborough had a list of the discontented members in both Houses, who were ready
to turn against the court; and, to crown all, that his grace had certain intelligence of the
Queen being in so ill a state of health, as made it impossible for her to live above six weeks."
So restless and indefatigable is avarice and ambition, when inflamed by a desire of revenge.

But representations, which had been so often tried, were now offered too late. Most of the
allies, except the Emperor, were willing to put an end to the war upon Her Majesty's plan;
and the further delay of three weeks must be chiefly imputed to that litigious manner of treating,
peculiar to the French; whose plenipotentiaries at Utrecht insisted with obstinacy upon many
points, which at Paris Mons. de Torcy had given up.

The Emperor expected to keep all he already possessed in Italy; that Port Longue,[32] on the
Tuscan coast, should be delivered to him by France; and, lastly, that he should not be obliged
to renounce Spain. But the Queen, as well as France, thought that his Imperial Majesty ought
to sit down contented with his partage of Naples and Milan; and to restore those territories
in Italy, which he had taken from the rightful proprietors, and by the possession of which
he was grown dangerous to the Italian princes, by reviving antiquated claims upon them.

[Footnote 32: Portolongone, in the island of Elba, opposite the Tuscan coast. [W.S.J.]]

This Prince had likewise objected to Her Majesty's expedient of suffering the Elector of Bavaria
to retain Luxembourg, under certain conditions, by way of security, until his electorate were
restored. But the Queen, supposing that these affected delays were intended only with a view
of continuing the war, resolved to defer the peace no longer on the Emperor's account.

In the middle of March, one thousand seven hundred and twelve-thirteen, a courier arrived at
Utrecht from France, with the plan of a general peace, as it had been agreed between the Duke
of Shrewsbury and Mons. de Torcy; wherein every particular, relating to the interests and pretensions
of the several allies, was brought so near to what each of them would accept, that the British
plenipotentiaries  hoped the peace would be general in ten or twelve days. The Portuguese and
Dutch were already prepared, and others were daily coming in, by means of their lordships'
good offices, who found Mons. Mesnager and his colleague very stubborn to the last. Another
courier was dispatched to France, upon some disputes about inserting the titles of Her Majesty
and the Most Christian King, and to bring a general plan for the interests of those allies,
who should not be ready against the time prefixed. The French renunciations were now arrived
at Utrecht, and it was agreed, that those, as well as that of the King of Spain, should be
inserted at length in every treaty, by which means the whole confederacy would become guaranties
of them.

The courier, last sent to France, returned to Utrecht on the twenty-seventh of March, with
the concessions of that court upon every necessary point; so that, all things being ready for
putting a period to this great and difficult work, the lord privy seal and the Earl of Strafford
gave notice to the ministers of the several allies, "That their lordships had appointed Tuesday
the thirty-first instant, wherein to sign a treaty of peace, and a treaty of commerce, between
the Queen of Great Britain, their mistress, and the Most Christian King; and hoped the said
allies would be prepared, at the same time, to follow their example." Accordingly their lordships
employed the three intervening days, in smoothing the few difficulties that remained between
the French ministers and those of the several confederate powers.

The important day being now come, the Lord Bishop of Bristol and the Earl of Strafford, having
assumed the character of ambassadors extraordinary,[33] gave a memorial in behalf of the French
Protestants to the Maréchal d'Uxelles and his colleague, who were to transmit it to their court;
and these delivered to the British ambassadors a declaration in writing, that the Pretender
was actually gone out of France.

[Footnote 33: To avoid the parade of ceremony, they had hitherto been considered only as plenipotentiaries.
[N.]]

The conditions of peace to be allowed the Emperor and the empire, as adjusted between Britain
and France, were now likewise delivered to the Count Zinzendorf. These and some other previous
matters of smaller consequence being finished, the treaties of peace and commerce between Her
Majesty of Britain and the Most Christian King, were signed at the lord privy seal's house
between two and three of the clock in the afternoon. The ministers of the Duke of Savoy signed
about an hour after. Then the assembly adjourned to the Earl of Stafford's, where they all
went to dinner; and about nine at night the peace was signed by the ministers of Portugal,
by those of Prussia at eleven, and when it was near midnight by the States.

Thus after all the opposition raised by a strong party in France, and by a virulent faction
in Britain; after all the artifices of those who presided at The Hague, and, for their private
interest, endeavoured, in conjunction with their friends in England, to prolong the war; after
the restless endeavours of the imperial court to render the treaty ineffectual; the firm steady
conduct of the Queen, the wisdom and courage of her ministry, and the abilities of those whom
she employed in her negotiations abroad, prevailed to have a peace signed in one day by every
power concerned, except that of the Emperor and the empire; for his Imperial Majesty liked
his situation too well to think of a peace, while the drudgery and expenses of the war lay
upon other shoulders, and the advantages were to redound only to himself.

During this whole negotiation, the King of Spain, who was not acknowledged by any of the confederates,
had consequently no minister at Utrecht; but the differences between Her Majesty and that prince
were easily settled by the Lord Lexington at Madrid, and the Marquis of Monteleon here: so
that upon the Duke d'Ossuna's arrival at the congress, some days after the peace, he was ready
to conclude a treaty between the Queen and his master. Neither is it probable that the Dutch,
or any other ally, except the Emperor, will encounter any difficulties of moment, to retard
their several treaties with his Catholic Majesty.

The treaties of peace and commerce between Britain and France, were ratified here on the seventh
of April; on the twenty-eighth the ratifications were exchanged; and on the fifth of May the
peace was proclaimed in the usual manner; but with louder acclamations, and more extraordinary
rejoicings of the people, than had ever been remembered on the like occasion.[34]

[Footnote: 34  The treaty was brought to England by George St. John, Bolingbroke's young brother,
who arrived with it in London on Good Friday, 3rd April, 1713. [T.S.]]

[It need hardly be observed, that this history is left incomplete by the author. [S.] Sir Walter
Scott's note hardly agrees with Swift's own statement to Stella. Writing under date May 16th,
1713, he says: "I have just finished my Treatise, and must be ten days correcting it." It is
evident that Swift did not intend to write a "History of the Four Last Years of Queen Anne's
Reign." A better title for this work would be the title originally given it, namely, "History
of the Peace of Utrecht."

NOTE.

The Abstract of the History of England here reprinted calls for little or no comment. It is
but a dry relation of events with no touch in the recital of any of those qualities which characterize
Swift's writings. The facts were evidently obtained from the old chroniclers. What object Swift
had in writing this Abstract is not known. If the dedication to the Count de Gyllenborg truly
states his intention, it must be confessed that the "foreigners, and gentlemen of our own country"
had not much upon which to congratulate themselves. Why Swift should have chosen the Count
de Gyllenborg to whom to address the dedication must also remain a matter for conjecture. The
Count had been sent out of the British Isles for instigating a conspiracy for a Jacobite insurrection
in Great Britain. Swift wrote his dedication three years after the Count's expulsion. Knowing
that the Count's master, Charles XII. of Sweden, had been a party to the plot, he yet writes
in a most amiable tone of friendliness towards both, with a parenthetical sneer at "his present
Britannic Majesty." Undoubtedly this dedication might easily and fairly be taken as strong
presumptive evidence of a leaning on Swift's part towards the Pretender. It will, however,
be more truly interpreted, if it be considered as an expression of contempt for the King of
England and the ministry in power.

The text of the present reprint is that given by Deane Swift from his edition of his kinsman's
works issued in 1765 and 1768 (4to edit, vols. viii. and xiii.). Deane Swift thought that the
narratives of Rufus, Henry I. and Stephen, would "appear to be such a model of English history,
as will make all men of taste, and especially foreigners, regret that he pursued his plan no
further."

[T.S.]

TO THE COUNT DE GYLLENBORG.[1]

[Footnote 1: Charles, Count Gyllenborg (1679-1746), was Swedish Ambassador at London 1710-16.
He then joined in a Jacobite plot, was arrested in January, 1716-7, and expelled the kingdom
in August, 1717. He afterwards filled high offices in his own country. [W.S.J.]]

Dublin in Ireland, Nov. 2, 1719.

SIR,

It is now about sixteen years since I first entertained the design of writing a History of
England, from the beginning of William Rufus to the end of Queen Elizabeth; such a History,
I mean, as appears to be most wanted by foreigners, and gentlemen of our own country; not a
voluminous work, nor properly an abridgement, but an exact relation of the most important affairs
and events, without any regard to the rest. My intention was to inscribe it to the King[2]
your late master, for whose great virtues I had ever the highest veneration, as I shall continue
to bear to his memory. I confess it is with some disdain that I observe great authors descending
to write any dedications at all: and for my own part, when I looked round on all the princes
of Europe, I could think of none who might deserve that distinction from me, besides the King
your master; (for I say nothing of his present Britannic Majesty, to whose person and character
I am an utter stranger, and like to continue so) neither can I be suspected of flattery on
this point, since it was some years after that I had the honour of an invitation to his court,
before you were employed as his minister in England, which I heartily repent that I did not
accept; whereby, as you can be my witness, I might have avoided some years' uneasiness and
vexation, during the last four years of our late excellent Queen, as well as a long melancholy
prospect since, in a most obscure disagreeable country, and among a most profligate and abandoned
people.

[Footnote 2: Charles XII., King of Sweden, who was killed in 1718. [D. S.]]

I was diverted from pursuing this History, partly by the extreme difficulty, but chiefly by
the indignation I conceived at the proceedings of a faction, which then prevailed; and the
papers lay neglected in my cabinet until you saw me in England; when you know how far I was
engaged in thoughts and business of another kind. Upon Her Majesty's lamented death, I returned
to my station in this kingdom; since which time there is not a northern curate among you who
hath lived more obscure than myself, or a greater stranger to the commonest transactions of
the world. It is but very lately that I found the following papers, which I had almost forgotten.
I publish them now, for two reasons; first, for an encouragement to those who have more youth,[3]
and leisure, and good temper than I, towards pursuing the work as far as it was intended by
me, or as much further as they please; the second reason is, to have an opportunity of declaring
the profound respect I have for the memory of your royal master, and the sincere regard and
friendship I bear to yourself; for I must bring to your mind how proud I was to distinguish
you among all the foreign ministers, with whom I had the honour to be acquainted. I am a witness
of the zeal you shewed not only for the honour and interest of your master, but for the advantage
of the Protestant religion in Germany, and how knowingly and feelingly you often spoke to me
upon that subject. We all loved you, as possessed of every quality that could adorn an English
gentleman, and esteemed you as a faithful subject to your prince, and an able negotiator; neither
shall any reverse of fortune have power to lessen you either in my friendship or esteem: and
I must take leave to assure you further, that my affection towards persons hath not been at
all diminished by the frown of power upon them. Those whom you and I once thought great and
good men, continue still so in my eyes and my heart; only with a * * * * * *

Caetera desiderantur.

[Footnote 3: The author was then in his fifty-second year. [D.S.]]

  AN ABSTRACT OF THE HISTORY
  OF ENGLAND,
  FROM THE INVASION OF IT BY JULIUS CAESAR
  TO WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR.

  Britons.
  Heathens.

The most ancient account we have of Britain is, that the island was full of inhabitants, divided
into several petty kingdoms, as most nations of the world appear to have been at first. The
bodies of the Britons were painted with a sky-coloured blue, either as an ornament or else
for terror to their enemies. In their religion they were heathens, as all the world was before
Christ, except the Jews.

  Druids.

Their priests were called Druids: These lived in hollow trees, and committed not their mysteries
to writing, but delivered them down by tradition, whereby they were in time wholly lost.

The Britons had wives in common, so many to a particular tribe or society, and the children
were in common to that society.

About fifty years before Christ, Julius Caesar, the first Roman Emperor, having conquered Gaul
or France, invaded Britain rather to increase his glory than conquests; for having overcome
the natives in one or two battles, he returned.

  Claudius.
  Nero.

The next invasion of Britain by the Romans (then masters of most of the known world) was in
the reign of the Emperor Claudius; but it was not wholly subdued till that of Nero. It was
governed by lieutenants, or deputies, sent from Rome, as Ireland is now by deputies from England;
and continued thus under the Romans for about 460 years; till that empire being invaded by
the Goths and Vandals, the Romans were forced not only to recall their own armies, but also
to draw from hence the bravest of the Britons, for their assistance against those barbarians.

  Picts.
  Picts' Wall.

The Roman conquests in this island reached no further northward than to that part of Scotland
where Stirling and Glasgow are seated: The region beyond was held not worth the conquering:
It was inhabited by a barbarous people, called Caledonians and Picts; who, being a rough fierce
nation, daily infested the British borders. Therefore the Emperor Severus built a wall, from
Stirling to Glasgow, to prevent the invasions of the Picts: It is commonly called the Picts' Wall.

  A.D. 455. Saxons.

These Picts and Caledonians, or Scots, encouraged by the departure of the Romans, do now cruelly
infest and invade the Britons by sea and land: The Britons choose Vortigern for their king,
who was forced to invite the Saxons (a fierce Northern people) to assist him against those
barbarians. The Saxons came over, and beat the Picts in several battles; but, at last, pick
quarrels with the Britons themselves; and, after a long war, drive them into the mountains
of Wales and Cornwall, and establish themselves in seven kingdoms in Britain, (by them now
called England). These seven kingdoms are usually styled the Saxon Heptarchy.

  A.D. 460. Arthur.

About this time lived King Arthur (if the whole story be not a fable) who was so famous for
beating the Saxons in several battles.

  A.D. 600. Austin.

The Britons received Christianity very early, and, as is reported, from some of the Disciples
themselves: So that, when the Romans left Britain, the Britons were generally Christians. But
the Saxons were heathens, till Pope Gregory the Great sent over hither Austin the monk, by
whom Ethelbert king of the South-Saxons, and his subjects, were converted to Christianity;
and the whole island soon followed the example.

  A.D. 819. Egbert.

[Footnote 4: The edition of 1765 gives the date as 819, but according to Dr. Stubbs, Egbert
became bretwalda in 828. [W.S.J.]]

After many various revolutions in this island among the kingdoms of the Saxons, Egbert, descended
from the West-Saxon kings, became sole monarch of England.

  Angles.

The language in Britain was British, (now called Welsh) or Latin; but, with the Saxons, English
came in (although extremely different from what it is now). The present names of towns, shires,
&c. were given by them; and the whole kingdom was called England from the Angles, who were
a branch of the Saxons.

  Danes.

As soon as the Saxons were settled, the Danes began to trouble and invade them, as they (the
Saxons) had before done the Britons.

These Danes came out of Germany, Denmark, and Norway, a rough warlike people, little different
from the Saxons to whom they were nigh neighbours.

  Edgar.

After many invasions from the Danes, Edgar King of England sets forth the first navy. He was
entitled King of all Albion, (an old name of this island) and was the first absolute monarch.

He made peace with the Danes, and allowed them to live in his dominions mixed with the English.

In this prince's time there were five kings in Wales, who all did him homage for their country.

  A.D. 978. Danes massacred.

These Danes began first to make their invasions here about the year 800, which they after renewed
at several times, and under several leaders, and were as often repulsed. They used to come
with vast numbers of ships, burn and ravage before them, as the cities of London, Winchester,
&c. Encouraged by success and prey, they often wintered in England, fortifying themselves in
the northern parts, from whence they cruelly infested the Saxon kings. In process of time they
mixed with the English (as was said before) and lived under the Saxon government: But Ethelred,
then King of England, growing weary of the Danish insolence, a conspiracy is formed, and the
Danes are massacred in one day all over England.

  Sweyn.

Four years after, Sweyn, King of Denmark, to revenge the death of his subjects, invades England;
and, after battles fought and much cruelty exercised, he subdues the whole kingdom, forcing
Ethelred to fly into Normandy.

  Canutus.

Sweyn dying, his son Canutus succeeds in the kingdom; but Ethelred returning with an army,
Canutus is forced to withdraw to Denmark for succour.

Ethelred dies, and his son Edmond Ironside succeeds; but, Canutus returning with fresh forces
from Denmark, after several battles, the kingdom is parted between them both. Edmond dying,
his sons are sent beyond sea by Canutus, who now is sole King of England.

  King's evil.

Hardicanute, the last Danish king, dying without issue, Edward, son of Ethelred, is chosen
king. For his great holiness, he was surnamed the Confessor, and sainted after his death. He
was the first of our princes that attempted to cure the king's evil by touching. He first introduced
what is now called the Common Law. In his time began the mode and humour among the English
gentry, of using the French tongue and fashions, in compliance with the king, who had been
bred up in Normandy.

The Danish government in England lasted but twenty-six years, under three kings.

  Harold.

Edward the Confessor married the daughter of Earl Godwin, an English nobleman of great power,
but of Danish extraction; but, wanting issue, he appointed Edgar Atheling, grandson to his
brother, to succeed him, and Harold, son of Earl Godwin, to be governor of the young prince.
But, upon Edward's death, Harold neglected Edgar Atheling, and usurped the crown for himself.

Edward, while he was in Normandy, met so good reception, that it was said he made a promise
to that duke, that, in case he recovered his kingdom, and died without issue, he would leave
it to him. Edward dying, William Duke of Normandy sends to Harold to claim the crown; but Harold,
now in possession, resolves to keep it. Upon which Duke William, having prepared a mighty fleet
and army, invades England, lands at Hastings, and sets fire to his fleet, to cut off all hope
from his men of returning. To Harold he sent his messenger, demanding the kingdom and his subjection:
But Harold returned him this answer, "That, unless he departed his land, he would make him
sensible of his just displeasure." So Harold advanced his forces into Sussex, within seven
miles of his enemy. The Norman Duke, to save the effusion of blood, sent these offers to Harold;
either wholly to resign the kingdom to him, or to try the quarrel with him in single combat.
To this Harold did not agree.

  A.D. 1066.

Then the battle joined. The Normans had gotten the worst, if it had not been for a stratagem
they invented, which got them the day. In this engagement Harold was killed, and William Duke
of Normandy became King of England, under the name of William the Conqueror.

THE REIGN OF WILLIAM THE SECOND,

SURNAMED RUFUS.

At the time of the Conqueror's death, his eldest son Robert, upon some discontent with his
father, being absent in France,[5] William, the second son, made use of this juncture, and
without attending his father's funeral, hastened to England, where, pursuant to the will of
the deceased prince,[6] the nobility, although more inclined to favour Robert, were prevailed
with to admit him King, partly by his promises to abate the rigour of the late reign, and restore
the laws and liberties which had been then abolished, but chiefly by the credit and solicitations
of Lanfranc; for that prelate had formerly a share in his education, and always a great affection
for his person. At Winchester he took possession of his father's treasure,[7] in obedience
to whose command, as well as to ingratiate himself with the people, he distributed it among
churches and religious houses, and applied it to the redeeming of prisoners, and other acts
of popularity.

[Footnote 5:  He was then at Abbeville in Picardy. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 6:  William the Conqueror left Normandy to his son Robert; but said of England: "So
it pleased God, he should be glad that William, his obedient and best beloved son, should enjoy
it after his death." [D. S.]]

[Footnote 7:  Which was sixty thousand pounds in silver, besides gold, jewels, and plate.--BROMPTON.
[D.S.]]

In the mean time Robert returned to Normandy, took possession of that duchy, with great applause
and content of his people, and, spited at the indignity done him by his father, and the usurpation
of his brother in consequence thereof, prepared a great fleet and army to invade England; nor
did there want an occasion to promote his interest, if the slowness, the softness, and credulity
of his nature, could have suffered him to make a right improvement of it.

Odo Bishop of Bayeux,[8] of whom frequent mention is made in the preceding reign,[9] a prelate
of incurable ambition, either on account of his age or character being restored to his liberty
and possessions in England, grew into envy and discontent, upon seeing Lanfranc preferred before
him by the new King in his favour and ministry. He therefore formed a conspiracy with several
nobles of Norman birth to depose the King, and sent an invitation to Robert to hasten over.
Mean time the conspirators, in order to distract the King's forces, seized on several parts
of England at once; Bristol, Norwich, Leicester, Worcester, Shrewsbury, Bath, and Durham, were
secured by several noblemen: Odo himself seized Rochester, reduced the coasts of Kent, and
sent messages to Robert to make all possible speed.

[Footnote 8: Odo was half brother to William the Conqueror. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Sir W. Temple wrote "An Introduction to the History of England." As it only extended
to the death of William the Conqueror it is probable that it is what is here referred to. It
will be found in vol. ii. of Sir W. Temple's "Works," edited by Swift. [W.S.J.]]

The King alarmed at these many and sudden defections, thought it his best course to begin his
defence by securing the good will of the people. He redressed many grievances, eased them of
certain oppressive taxes and tributes, gave liberty to hunt in his forest, with other marks
of indulgence, which however forced from him by the necessity of the time, he had the skill
or fortune so to order as they neither lost their good grace nor effect; for immediately after
he raised great forces both by land and sea, marched into Kent, where the chief body of his
enemies was in arms, recovered Tunbridge and Pevensey, in the latter of which Odo himself was
taken prisoner, and forced to accompany the King to Rochester. This city refusing to surrender
at the King's summons, Odo undertook to prevail with the obstinacy of the inhabitants; but
being admitted into the town, was there detained, either by a real or seeming force; however,
the King provoked at their stubbornness and fraud, soon compelled them to yield, retook his
prisoner, and forcing him for ever to abjure England, sent him into Normandy.

By these actions, performed with such great celerity and success, the preparations of Duke
Robert were wholly disappointed, himself, by the necessity of his affairs, compelled to a treaty
with his brother, upon the terms of a small pension, and a mutual promise of succeeding to
each other's dominions on failure of issue, forced to resign his pretensions, and return with
a shattered fleet to Normandy.

About this time died Archbishop Lanfranc; by whose death the King, loosed from that awe and
constraint he was under, soon began to discover those irregularities of his nature, which till
then he had suppressed and disguised, falling into those acts of oppression and extortion that
have made his name and memory infamous. He kept the see of Canterbury four years vacant, and
converted the revenues to his own use, together with those of several other bishoprics and
abbeys, and disposed all church preferments to the highest bidder. Nor were his exactions less
upon the laity, from whom he continually extorted exorbitant fines for pretended transgression
of certain penal laws, and entertained informers to observe men's actions and bring him intelligence.

It is here worth observation, that these corrupt proceedings of the prince have, in the opinion
of several learned men, given rise to two customs, which are a long time grown to have the
force of laws. For, first the successors of this King, continuing the custom of seizing on
the accruing rents in the vacancy of sees and abbeys, it grew in process of time to be exacted
as a right, or acknowledgment to the King as founder; whence the revenues of vacant bishoprics
belong at this day to the crown. The second custom had an original not unlike. Several persons,
to avoid the persecutions of the King's informers, and other instruments of oppression, withdrew
themselves and their effects to foreign countries; upon which the King issued a proclamation,
forbidding all men to leave the kingdom without his licence; from whence, in the judgment of
the same authors, the writ ne exeat regno had its beginning.

By these and the like arbitrary methods having amassed great treasures, and finding all things
quiet at home, he raised a powerful army to invade his brother in Normandy; but upon what ground
or pretext, the writers of that age are not very exact; whether it were from a principle frequent
among unjust princes, That old oppressions are best justified by new; or, whether having a
talent for sudden enterprises, and justly apprehending the resentments of Duke Robert, he thought
it the wiser course to prevent injuries than to revenge them. In this expedition he took several
cities and castles from his brother, and would have proceeded further, if Robert had not desired
and obtained the assistance of Philip King of France, who came with an army to his relief.
King William not thinking it safe or prudent to proceed further against his enemy supported
by so great an ally, yet loth to lose the fruits of his time and valour, fell upon a known
and old expedient, which no prince ever practised oftener, or with greater success, and that
was, to buy off the French King with a sum of money. This had its effect; for that prince not
able to oppose such powerful arms, immediately withdrew himself and his forces, leaving the
two brothers to concert the measures of a peace.

This was treated and agreed with great advantages on the side of King William; for he kept
all the towns he had taken, obliged his brother to banish Edgar Atheling out of Normandy, and,
for a further security, brought over with him to England the Duke himself to attend him in
his expedition against Malcolm King of Scotland, who during his absence had invaded the borders.
The King having raised great forces both by sea and land, went in person to repel the inroads
of the Scots: but the enterprise was without success; for the greatest part of his fleet was
destroyed by a tempest, and his army very much diminished by sickness and famine, which forced
him to a peace of little honour; by which, upon the condition of homage from that prince, the
King of England agreed to deliver him up those twelve towns (or manors) in England which Malcolm
had held under William the Conqueror; together with a pension of twelve thousand marks.

At this time were sown the seeds of another quarrel between him and Duke Robert, who soliciting
the King to perform some covenants of the last peace, and meeting with a repulse, withdrew
in great discontent to Normandy.

King William, in his return from Scotland, fell dangerously sick at Gloucester, where, moved
by the seasonable exhortations of his clergy, or rather by the fears of dying, he began to
discover great marks of repentance, with many promises of amendment and retribution, particularly
for his injuries to the Church. To give credit to which good resolutions, he immediately filled
several vacant sees, giving that of Canterbury to Anselm, a foreigner of great fame for piety
and learning. But as it is the disposition of men who derive their vices from their complexions,
that their passions usually beat strong and weak with their pulses, so it fared with this prince,
who upon recovery of his health soon forgot the vows he had made in his sickness, relapsing
with greater violence into the same irregularities of injustice and oppression, whereof Anselm,
the new archbishop, felt the first effects. This prelate, soon after his promotion, offered
the King a sum of money by way of present; but took care it should be so small, that none might
interpret it to be a consideration of his late preferment. The King rejected it with scorn;
and as he used but little ceremony in such matters, insisted in plain terms for more. Anselm
would not comply; and the King enraged, sought all occasions to make him uneasy; until at length
the poor archbishop, tired out with perpetual usurpations (or at least what was then understood
to be such) upon his jurisdiction, privileges, and possessions, desired the King licence for
a journey to Rome; and upon a refusal, went without it. As soon as he was withdrawn, the King
seized on all his revenues, converting them to his own use, and the archbishop continued an
exile until the succeeding reign.

The particulars of this quarrel between the King and archbishop are not, in my opinion, considerable
enough to deserve a place in this brief collection, being of little use to posterity, and of
less entertainment; neither should I have mentioned it at all, but for the occasion it gives
me of making a general observation, which may afford some light into the nature and disposition
of those ages. Not only this King's father and himself, but the princes for several successions,
of the fairest character, have been severely taxed for violating the rights of the clergy,
and perhaps not altogether without reason. It is true, this character hath made the lighter
impression, as proceeding altogether from the party injured, the cotemporary writers being
generally churchmen: and it must be confessed, that the usurpations of the Church and court
of Rome were in those ages risen to such heights, as to be altogether inconsistent either with
the legislature or administration of any independent state; the inferior clergy, both secular
and regular, insisting upon such immunities as wholly exempted them from the civil power; and
the bishops removing all controversies with the crown by appeal to Rome: for they reduced the
matter to this short issue, That God was to be obeyed rather than men; and consequently the
Bishop of Rome, who is Christ's representative, rather than an earthly prince. Neither doth
it seem improbable that all Christendom would have been in utter vassalage, both temporal and
spiritual, to the Roman see, if the Reformation had not put a stop to those exorbitancies,
and in a good measure opened the eyes even of those princes and states who still adhere to
the doctrines and discipline of that church.

While the King continued at Gloucester, Malcolm King of Scotland came to his court, with intentions
to settle and confirm the late peace between them. It happened that a controversy arose about
some circumstances relating to the homage which Malcolm was to pay, in the managing whereof
King William discovered so much haughtiness and disdain, both in words and gestures, that the
Scottish prince, provoked by such unworthy treatment, returned home with indignation; but soon
came back at the head of a powerful army, and, entering Northumberland with fire and sword,
laid all waste before him. But as all enterprises have in the progress of them a tincture of
those passions by which they were spirited at first, so this invasion begun upon private revenge,
which is a blind ungovernable passion, was carried on with equal precipitation, and proved
to be ruinous in the event; for Robert Mowbray, Earl of Northumberland, to prevent the destruction
of his own country, where he had great possessions, gathering what forces he could suddenly
raise, and without waiting any directions from the King, marched against the Scots, who were
then set down before Alnwick Castle: there, by an ambush, Malcolm and his eldest son Edward
were slain, and the army, discouraged by the loss of their princes, entirely defeated. This
disaster was followed in a few days by the death of Queen Margaret, who, not able to survive
her misfortunes, died for grief. Neither did the miseries of that kingdom end till, after two
usurpations, the surviving son of Malcolm, who had fled to England for refuge, was restored
to his crown by the assistance of King William.

About this time the hidden sparks of animosity between the two brothers, buried but not extinguished
in the last peace, began to flame out into new dissensions. Duke Robert had often sent his
complaints to the King for breach of articles, but without redress, which provoked him to expostulate
in a rougher manner, till at length he charged the King in plain terms with injustice and perjury,
but no men are found to endure reproaches with less temper than those who most deserve them,
the King, at the same time filled with indignation, and stung with guilt, invaded Normandy
a second time, resolving to reduce his brother to such terms as might stop all further complaints.
He had already taken several strong holds, by force either of arms or of money, and intending
entirely to subdue the duchy, gave orders to have twenty thousand men immediately raised in
England, and sent over to him. The Duke, to defend himself against these formidable preparations,
had recourse again to his old ally the King of France, who very readily advanced with an army
to his assistance, as an action wherein he could every way find his own accounts, for, beside
the appearance of glory and justice by protecting the injured, he fought indeed his own battle,
by preserving his neighbouring state in the hands of a peaceful prince, from so powerful and
restless an enemy as the King of England, and was largely paid for his trouble into the bargain,
for King William, either loth to engage in a long and dangerous war, or hastened back by intelligence
of some troubles from Wales, sent offers to his army, just ready to embark for Normandy, that
upon payment of ten shillings a man they might have leave to return to their own homes.[10]
This bargain was generally accepted, the money was paid to the King of France, who immediately
withdrew his troops, and King William, now master of the conditions, forced his brother to
a peace upon much harder terms than before.

[Footnote 10: See reference to this incident in "The Examiner," No. 21 (vol. ix of this edition,
p. 123)  [W.S.J.]]

In this passage there are some circumstances which may appear odd and unaccountable to those
who will not give due allowance for the difference of times and manners: that an absent prince,
engaged in an unjust war with his own brother, and ill-beloved at home, should have so much
power and credit, as by his commission to raise twenty thousand men on a sudden, only as a
recruit to the army he had already with him; that he should have a fleet prepared ready, and
large enough to transport so great a number; that upon the very point of embarking he should
send them so disgraceful an offer; and that so great a number of common soldiers should be
able and willing to pay such a sum of money, equal to at least twelve time as much in our times;
and that, after being thus deluded and spoiled at once, they should peaceably disband and retire
to their several homes. But all this will be less difficult to comprehend, when we reflect
on the method of raising and supporting armies, very different from ours, which was then in
use, and so continued for many ages after. All men who had lands in capite were bound to attend
the King in his wars with a proportioned number of soldiers, who were their tenants on easy
rents in consideration of military service. This was but the work of a few days, and the troops
consisted of such men as were able to maintain their own charges either at home or abroad:
neither was there any reason to apprehend that soldiers would ever become instruments for introducing
slavery, who held so great a share in the property.

The King, upon his return from Normandy, made an unsuccessful expedition against the Welsh,
who upon the advantages of his absence had, according to their usual custom, made cruel inroads
upon the adjoining counties of Chester, Shrewsbury, and Hereford. Upon the King's approach
they fled into their fastnesses among the mountains, where he pursued them for some time with
great rage and vexation, as well as the loss of great numbers of his men, to no purpose. From
hence he was recalled by a more formidable enemy nearer home: for Robert Earl of Northumberland,
overrating his late services against the Scots, as much perhaps and as unjustly as they were
undervalued by the King, refused to come to his court, which, in those days, was looked on
as the first usual mark of discontent in a nobleman; and was often charged by princes as a
formal accusation. The earl having disobeyed the King's summons, and concerted matters with
other accomplices, broke out into open rebellion, with intentions to depose King William, and
set up Stephen Earl of Albemarle, son of a sister to William the Conqueror: but all was prevented
by the celerity of this active prince; who, knowing that insurrections are best quelled in
their beginnings, marched with incredible speed, and surprised the rebels at Newcastle, took
the castles of Tynemouth and Bamburgh; where the obstinacy of the defendants provoked him,
contrary to his nature, to commit cruelties upon their persons, by cutting off their hands
and ears, and other the like inhumanities. The earl himself was taken prisoner as he endeavoured
to make his escape; but suffered no other punishment than to be confined for the rest of his
life.[11]

[Footnote 11: Which was thirty years. [D.S.]]

About this time began the Holy War for recovering of Palestine; which having not been the enterprise
of any one prince or state, but that wherein most in Christendom had a share, it cannot with
justice be silently passed over in the history of any nation.

Pope Urban the Second, in a council at Clermont, made a pathetic exhortation, shewing with
what danger and indignity to Christendom the Turks and Saracens had, for some ages, not only
overrun all Asia and Africa, where Christianity had long flourished; but had also made encroachments
into Europe, where they had entirely subdued Spain, and some other parts; that Jerusalem, the
holy city, where our Saviour did so many miracles, and where His sepulchre still remained,
to the scandal of the Christian name, lay groaning under the tyranny of infidels; that the
swords which Christian princes had drawn against each other, ought to be turned against the
common enemy of their name and religion; that this should be reckoned an ample satisfaction
for all their past sins; that those who died in this expedition should immediately go to Heaven,
and the survivors would be blessed with the sight of our Lord's sepulchre.

Moved by these arguments, and the influence of the person who delivered them, several nobles
and prelates immediately took upon them the cross; and the council dissolving in this high
fit of zeal, the clergy, upon their return home, prevailed so far in their several countries,
that in most parts of Europe some great prince or lord became a votary for the Holy Land; as
Hugh the Great, brother to the King of France; Godfrey Duke of Lorraine; Reimond Count of Toulouse;
Robert Duke of Normandy, and many others. Neither ought it to be forgotten, that most of these
noble and generous princes, wanting money to maintain the forces they had raised, pawned their
dominions to those very prelates who had first engaged them in this enterprise: doubtless a
notable mark of the force of oratory in the churchmen of those ages, who were able to inspire
that devotion into others, whereof they seemed so little sensible themselves.

But a great share in the honour of promoting this religious war, is attributed to the zeal
and industry of a certain French priest, commonly called Peter the Hermit; who being at Jerusalem
upon pilgrimage some time before, and entering often into private treaty with the patriarch
of that city, came back fully instructed in all the measures necessary for such a war: to these
was joined the artifice of certain dreams and visions that might pass for divine admonition:
all which, added to the piety of his exhortations, gave him such credit with the Pope, and
several princes of Christendom, that he became in his own person the leader of a great army
against the infidels, and was very instrumental for engaging many others in the same design.

What a spirit was thus raised in Christendom among all sorts of men, cannot better be conceived
than from the vast numbers of these warlike pilgrims; who, at the siege of Nice, are said to
have consisted of 600,000 foot, and 100,000 horse: and the success at first was answerable
to the greatness of their numbers, the valour of their leaders, and the universal opinion of
such a cause; for, besides several famous victories in the field, not to mention the towns
of less importance, they took Nice, Antioch, and at last Jerusalem, where Duke Godfrey was
chosen king without competition. But zeal, with a mixture of enthusiasm, as I take this to
have been, is a composition only fit for sudden enterprises, like a great ferment in the blood,
giving double courage and strength for the time, until it sink and settle by nature into its
old channel: for, in a few years the piety of these adventurers began to slacken, and give
way to faction and envy, the natural corruptions of all confederacies: however, to this spirit
of devotion there succeeded a spirit of honour, which long continued the vein and humour of
the times; and the Holy Land became either a school, wherein young princes went to learn the
art of war, or a scene wherein they affected to shew their valour, and gain reputation, when
they were weary of peace at home.

The Christians held possession of Jerusalem above eighty years,[12] and continued their expeditions
to the Holy Land almost as many more, with various events; and after they were entirely driven
out of Asia, the popes have almost in every age endeavoured in vain to promote new crusades
neither does this spirit seem quite extinct among us even to this day; the usual projects of
sanguine men for uniting Christendom against the Turk, being without doubt a traditional way
of talk derived to us from the same fountain.

[Footnote 12:  They held it eighty-eight years; from July, 1099, to October, 1187. [D.S.]]

Robert, in order to furnish himself out for this war, pawned his duchy to the King for 10,000
marks of gold;[13] which sum was levied with so many circumstances of rigour and exaction,
towards the Church and laity, as very much increased the discontents of both against the prince.

[Footnote 13:  Equal to £1,400,000, as money passes now. [D.S.]]

  1099.

I shall record one act of this king's, which being chiefly personal, may pass rather for a
part of his character, than a point of history.

As he was hunting one day in the New Forest, a messenger express from Normandy, brought him
intelligence, that Hélie, Count de la Flèche, had laid close siege to Mans, and expected to
carry the town in a few days; the King leaving his chase, commanded some about him to point
whereabout Mans lay; and so rode straight on without reflection, until he came to the coast.
His attendants advised him to wait until he had made preparations of men and money; to which
he only returned; "They that love me, will follow me." He entered the ship in a violent storm;
which the mariners beholding with astonishment, at length in great humility gave him warning
of the danger; but the King commanded them instantly to put off to sea, and not be afraid;
for he had never in his life heard of any King that was drowned. In a few days he drove the
enemy from before the city, and took the count himself prisoner, who raging at his defeat and
captivity, exclaimed,[14] "That this blow was from Fortune; but Valour could make reprisals,
as he should shew, if ever he regained his liberty." This being told the King, he sent for
the count, let him understand that he had heard of his menaces, then gave him a fine horse,
bid him begone immediately, and defied him to do his worst.

[Footnote 14: There is so much pleasantry and humour, as well as spirit and heroism in this
story, as we have it recorded by William de Malmesbury, who represents the menace as thrown
out in the King's presence, that I shall make no apology for setting down his words at length.
"Auctor turbarum Helias capitur; cui ante se adducto rex ludibundus, 'Habeo te, magister,'
inquit. At ille, cujus alta nobilitas nesciret in tanto etiam periculo sapere; 'Fortuitu,'
inquit, 'me cepisti: sed si possem evadere, novi quid facerem.' Tum Willelmus, prae furore
ferè extra se positus, et obuncans Heliam, 'Tu,'inquit, 'nebulo! tu, quid faceres? Discede;
abi; fuge! Concede tibi ut facias quicquid poteris: et, per vultum de Luca! nihil, si me viceris,
pro hâc veniâ tecum paciscar." I.e. By the face of St. Luke, if thou shouldst have the fortune
to conquer me, I scorn to compound with thee for my release. [D.S.]]

It would have been an injury to this prince's memory, to let pass an action, by which he acquired
more honour than from any other in his life, and by which it appeared that he was not without
some seeds of magnanimity, had they been better cultivated, or not overrun by the number or
prevalency of his vices.

I have met with nothing else in this King's reign that deserved to be remembered; for, as to
an unsuccessful expedition or two against Wales, either by himself or his generals; they were
very inconsiderable both in action and event, nor attended with any circumstances that might
render a relation of them of any use to posterity, either for instruction or example.

His death was violent and unexpected, the effect of casualty; although this perhaps is the
only misfortune of life to which the person of a prince is generally less subject than that
of other men. Being at his beloved exercise of hunting in the New Forest in Hampshire, a large
stag crossed the way before him, the King hot on his game, cried out in haste to Walter Tyrrel,
a knight of his attendants, to shoot; Tyrrel, immediately let fly his arrow, which glancing
against a tree, struck the King through the heart, who fell dead to the ground without speaking
a word. Upon the surprise of this accident, all his attendants, and Tyrrel[15] among the rest,
fled different ways; until the fright being a little over, some of them returned, and causing
the body to be laid in a collier's cart, for want of other conveniency, conveyed it in a very
unbecoming contemptuous manner to Winchester, where it was buried the next day without solemnity,
and which is worse, without grief.

[Footnote 15: Yet Eadmer saith, that Tyrrel told him, he had not been in the Forest that day.
[D.S.]]

I shall conclude the history of this prince's reign, with a description and character of his
body and mind, impartially from the collections I have made; which method I shall observe likewise
in all the succeeding reigns.

He was in stature somewhat below the usual size, and big-bellied, but he was well and strongly
knit. His hair was yellow or sandy; his face red, which got him the name of Rufus; his forehead
flat; his eyes were spotted, and appeared of different colours; he was apt to stutter in speaking,
especially when he was angry; he was vigorous and active, and very hardy to endure fatigues,
which he owed to a good constitution of health, and the frequent exercise of hunting; in his
dress he affected gaiety and expense, which having been first introduced by this prince into
his court and kingdom, grew, in succeeding reigns, an intolerable grievance. He also first
brought in among us the luxury and profusion of great tables. There was in him, as in all other
men, a mixture of virtues and vices, and that in a pretty equal degree, only the misfortune
was, that the latter, although not more numerous, were yet much more prevalent than the former.
For being entirely a man of pleasure, this made him sacrifice all his good qualities, and gave
him too many occasions of producing his ill ones. He had one very singular virtue for a prince,
which was that of being true to his word and promise: he was of undoubted personal valour,
whereof the writers in those ages produce several instances; nor did he want skill and conduct
in the process of war. But, his peculiar excellency, was that of great dispatch, which, however
usually decried, and allowed to be only a happy temerity, does often answer all the ends of
secrecy and counsel in a great commander, by surprising and daunting an enemy when he least
expects it; as may appear by the greatest actions and events upon the records of every nation.

He was a man of sound natural sense, as well as of wit and humour, upon occasion. There were
several tenets in the Romish Church he could not digest; particularly that of the saints' intercession;
and living in an age overrun with superstition, he went so far into the other extreme, as to
be censured for an atheist. The day before his death, a monk relating a terrible dream, which
seemed to forebode him some misfortune, the King being told the matter, turned it into a jest;
said, "The man was a monk, and dreamt like a monk, for lucre sake;" and therefore commanded
Fitzhamon to give him an hundred shillings, that he might not complain he had dreamt to no purpose.

His vices appear to have been rather derived from the temper of his body, than any original
depravity of his mind; for being of a sanguine complexion, wholly bent upon his pleasures,
and prodigal in his nature, he became engaged in great expenses. To supply these, the people
were perpetually oppressed with illegal taxes and exactions; but that sort of avarice which
arises from prodigality and vice, as it is always needy, so it is much more ravenous and violent
than the other, which put the King and his evil instruments (among whom Ralph, Bishop of Durham,
is of special infamy) upon those pernicious methods of gratifying his extravagances by all
manner of oppression; whereof some are already mentioned, and others are too foul to relate.

He is generally taxed by writers for discovering a contempt of religion in his common discourse
and behaviour; which I take to have risen from the same fountain, being a point of art, and
a known expedient, for men who cannot quit their immoralities, at least to banish all reflections
that may disturb them in the enjoyment, which must be done either by not thinking of religion
at all; or, if it will obtrude, by putting it out of countenance.

Yet there is one instance that might shew him to have some sense of religion as well as justice.
When two monks were outvying each other in canting[16] the price of an abbey, he observed a
third at some distance, who said never a word; the King demanded why he would not offer; the
monk said, he was poor, and besides, would give nothing if he were ever so rich; the King replied,
"Then you are the fittest person to have it," and immediately gave it him. But this is, perhaps
with reason enough, assigned more to caprice than conscience; for he was under the power of
every humour and passion that possessed him for the present; which made him obstinate in his
resolves, and unsteady in the prosecution.

[Footnote 16: An Irish phrase for selling or buying by auction. It is somewhat remarkable that
so severe a critic should have used such a word in historical composition. [S.]]

He had one vice or folly that seemed rooted in his mind, and of all others, most unbefitting
a prince: This was, a proud disdainful manner, both in his words and gesture; and having already
lost the love of his subjects by his avarice and oppression, this finished the work, by bringing
him into contempt and hatred among his servants; so that few among the worst of princes have
had the luck to be so ill beloved, or so little lamented.

He never married, having an invincible abhorrence for the state, although not for the sex.

He died in the thirteenth year of his reign, the forty-third of his age, and of Christ 1100,
August 2.

His works of piety were few, but in buildings he was very expensive, exceeding any King of
England before or since, among which Westminster Hall, Windsor Castle, the Tower of London,
and the whole city of Carlisle, remain lasting monuments of his magnificence.

THE REIGN OF HENRY THE FIRST.

This prince was the youngest son of William the Conqueror, and bred to more learning than was
usual in that age, or to his rank, which got him the surname of Beauclerk; the reputation whereof,
together with his being born in England, and born son of a king, although of little weight
in themselves, did very much strengthen his pretensions with the people. Besides, he had the
same advantage of his brother Robert's absence, which had proved before so successful to Rufus,
whose treasures he likewise seized on immediately at his death, after the same manner, and
for the same end, as Rufus did those of his father the Conqueror. Robert had been now five
years absent in the Holy War, where he acquitted himself with great glory; and although he
was now in Apulia, upon his return homeward, yet the nobles pretending not to know what was
become of him, and others giving out that he had been elected King of Jerusalem, Henry laid
hold of the occasion, and calling together an assembly of the clergy, nobles, and people of
the realm at London, upon his promises to restore King Edward's laws, and redress the grievances
which had been introduced by his father and brother, they consented to elect him king. Immediately
after his coronation, he proceeded upon reforming the abuses of the late reign: he banished
dissolute persons from the court, who had long infested it under the protection and example
of Rufus: he restored the people to the use of lights in the night, which the Conqueror had
forbidden, after a certain hour, by the ringing of a bell. Then he published his charter, and
ordered a copy thereof to be taken for every county in England. This charter was in substance;
The freedom of Mother Church from former oppressions; leave to the heirs of nobles to succeed
in the possession of their lands, without being obliged to redeem them, only paying to the
king a moderate relief; abolition of fines for licence of marriage to their heiresses; a promise
of not refusing such licence unless the match proposed be with the king's enemy,[17] &c.; the
next of kin to be guardians of the lands of orphans; punishments for coiners of false money;
a confirmation of St. Edward's laws; and a general amnesty.

[Footnote 17: i.e. with a traitor or malcontent. [D.S.]]

About the same time he performed two acts of justice, which, by gratifying the revenge and
the love of the people, gained very much upon their affections to his person: the first was,
to imprison Ralph Bishop of Durham,[18] who having been raised by the late king from a mean
and sordid birth to be his prime confidant and minister, became the chief instrument, as well
as contriver, of all his oppressions: the second was, in recalling and restoring Archbishop
Anselm, who having been forced by the continual persecutions of the same prince, to leave England,
had lived ever since in banishment, and deprived of all his revenues.

[Footnote 18: Le Neve says that Ralph Flambard, Bishop of Durham, was imprisoned in the Tower,
September, 1100, but escaped in February of the following year, and fled to Normandy. ("Fasti,"
iii. 282-3). [W.S.J.]]

The King had not been many months on his throne, when the news came that Duke Robert, returned
from the Holy Land, was received by his subjects with great marks of joy and honour, and in
universal reputation for his valour and success against the infidels: soon after which, Ralph
Bishop of Durham, either by the negligence or corruption of his keepers, escaped out of prison,
and fled over to the Duke; whom he stirred up to renew and solicit his pretensions to the crown
of England, by writing to several nobles, who, either through old friendship, or new discontent,
or an opinion of his title, gave him promises of their assistance, as soon as he should land
in England: but the Duke having returned exceeding poor from the Holy Land, was not yet in
a condition for such an undertaking, and therefore thought fit to defer it to a more seasonable
opportunity.

As the King had hitherto, with great industry, sought all occasions to gratify his people,
so he continued to do in the choice of a wife. This was Matilda, daughter of Malcolm the late
King of Scots; a lady of great piety and virtue, who, by the power or persuasion of her friends,
was prevailed with to leave her cloister for a crown, after she had, as some writers report,
already taken the veil. Her mother was sister to Edgar Atheling, the last heir-male of the
Saxon race; of whom frequent mention hath been made in the two preceding reigns: and thus the
Saxon line, to the great contentment of the English nation, was again restored.

Duke Robert, having now with much difficulty and oppression of his subjects, raised great forces,
and gotten ready a fleet to convey them, resolved once more to assert his title to the crown
of England: to which end he had for some time held a secret correspondence with several nobles,
and lately received fresh invitations. The King, on the other side, who had received timely
intelligence of his brother's preparations, gave orders to his admirals to watch the sea-ports,
and endeavour to hinder the enemy's landing: but the commanders of several ships, whether Robert
had won them by his bribes, or his promises, instead of offering resistance, became his guides,
and brought his fleet safe into Portsmouth, where he landed his men, and from thence marched
to Winchester, his army hourly increasing by great numbers of people, who had either an affection
for his person, an opinion of his title, or a hatred to the King. In the mean time Henry advanced
with his forces, to be near the Duke, and observe his motions; but, like a wise general, forbore
offering battle to an invader, until he might do it with manifest advantage. Besides, he knew
very well that his brother was a person whose policy was much inferior to his valour, and therefore
to be sooner overcome in a treaty than a fight: to this end, the nobles on both sides began
to have frequent interviews; to make overtures; and at last concert the terms of a peace; but
wholly to the advantage of the King, Robert renouncing his pretensions in consideration of
a small pension, and of succeeding to the crown on default of male issue in his brother.

The defection of nobles and other people to the Duke was so great, that men generally thought
if it had come to a battle, the King would have lost both the victory and his crown. But Robert,
upon his return to Normandy after this dishonourable peace, grew out of all reputation with
the world, as well as into perfect hatred and contempt among his own subjects, which in a short
time was the cause of his ruin.

The King having thus by his prudence got rid of a dangerous and troublesome rival, and soon
after by his valour quelled the insurrections of the Earls of Shrewsbury and Mortaigne, whom
he forced to fly into Normandy, found himself in full peace at home and abroad, and therefore
thought he might venture a contention with the Church about the right of investing bishops;
upon which subject many other princes at that time had controversy with their clergy: but,
after long struggling in vain, were all forced to yield at last to the decree of a synod in
Rome, and to the pertinacy of the bishops in the several countries. The form of investing a
bishop, was by delivery of a ring and a pastoral staff; which, at Rome, was declared unlawful
to be performed by any lay hand whatsoever; but the princes of Christendom pleaded immemorial
custom to authorize them: and King Henry, having given the investiture to certain bishops,
commanded Anselm to consecrate them. This the archbishop refused with great firmness, pursuant
to what he understood to be his duty, and to several immediate commands of the Pope. Both sides
adhering to their own sentiments, the matter was carried to Rome, where Anselm went in person,
by the King's desire; who, at the same time, sent ambassadors thither to assert and defend
his cause; but the Pope still insisting, Anselm was forbidden to return to England. The King
seized on all his revenues, and would not restore him, until upon other concessions of the
Pope, Henry was content to yield up his pretensions to the investiture; but, however, kept
the right of electing still in his own hands.

Whatever might have been the method of electing bishops, in the more primitive ages, it seems
plain to me that in these times, and somewhat before, although the election was made per clerum
et populum, yet the king always nominated at first, or approved afterwards, and generally both,
as may be seen by the style in which their elections ran, as well as by the persons chosen,
who were usually Churchmen of the court, or in some employment near the King. But whether this
were a gradual encroachment of the regal upon the spiritual power, I had rather leave others
to dispute.

  1104.
  1105.

About this time Duke Robert came to England, upon a visit to the King, where he was received
with much kindness and hospitality; but, at the same time, the Queen had private directions
to manage his easy temper, and work him to a consent of remitting his pension: this was compassed
without much difficulty; but, upon the Duke's return to Normandy, he was severely reproved
for his weakness by Ralph Bishop of Durham, and the two Earls of Mortaigne and Shrewsbury.
These three having fled from England for rebellion, and other treasons, lived exiles in Normandy;
and, bearing an inveterate hatred to the King, resolved to stir up the Duke to a resentment
of the injury and fraud of his brother. Robert, who was various in his nature, and always under
the power of the present persuader, easily yielded to their incitements: reproached the King
in bitter terms, by letters and messages, that he had cozened and circumvented him; demanding
satisfaction, and withal threatening revenge. At the same time, by the advice of the three
nobles already mentioned, he began to arm himself as formidably as he could, with design to
seize upon the King's possessions in Normandy: but as this resolution was rashly taken up,
so it was as faintly pursued, and ended in his destruction: neither hath any prince reason
to expect better fortune, that engages in a war against a powerful neighbour upon the counsel
or instigation of exiles, who having no further view than to serve their private interest,
or gratify their revenge, are sure to succeed in one or t'other, if they can embark princes
in their quarrel, whom they fail not to incite by the falsest representations of their own
strength, and the weakness of their enemy: for as the King was now settled in his throne too
firm to be shaken, so Robert had wholly lost all credit and friendship in England; was sunk
in reputation at home; and, by his unlimited profuseness, reduced so low, that, having pawned
most of his dominions, he had offered Rouen, his capital city, in sale to the inhabitants.
All this was very well known to the King, who, resolving to make his advantage thereof, pretended
to be highly provoked at the disgraceful speeches and menaces of his brother; which he made
the formal occasion of a quarrel: therefore he first sent over some forces to ravage his country;
and, understanding that the Duke was coldly supported by his own subjects, many of whom came
over to the King's army, he soon followed in person with more; took several towns; and, placing
garrisons therein, came back to England, designing with the first pretext or opportunity to
return with a more potent army, and wholly subdue the duchy to his obedience.

Robert, now grown sensible of his weakness, became wholly dispirited; and following his brother
into England, in a most dejected manner begged for peace: but the King, now fully determined
upon his ruin, turned away in disdain, muttering at the same time some threatening words. This
indignity roused up once more the sinking courage of the Duke; who, with bitter words, detesting
the pride and insolence of Henry, withdrew in a rage, and hasting back to Normandy, made what
preparations he could for his own defence. The King observing his nobles very ready to engage
with him in this expedition; and being assured that those in Normandy would, upon his approach,
revolt from the Duke, soon followed with a mighty army, and the flower of his kingdom. Upon
his arrival he was attended, according to his expectation, by several Norman lords; and, with
this formidable force, sat down before Tinchebray: the Duke, accompanied by the two exiled
earls, advanced with what strength he had, in hopes to draw the enemy from the siege of so
important a place, although at the hazard of a battle. Both armies being drawn out in battalia,
that of the King's, trusting to their numbers, began to charge with great fury, but without
any order.

  1106.

The Duke, with forces far inferior, received the enemy with much firmness; and, finding they
had spent their first heat, advanced very regularly against their main body, before they could
recover themselves from the confusion they were in. He attacked them with so much courage,
that he broke their whole body, and they began to fly on every side. The King believing all
was lost, did what he could by threats and gentle words to stop the flight of his men, but
found it impossible: then he commanded two bodies of horse, which were placed on either wing,
to join, and, wheeling about, to attack the enemy in rear. The Duke, who thought himself so
near a victory, was forced to stop his pursuit; and ordering his men to face about, began the
fight anew; mean time the scattered parts of the main body, which had so lately fled, began
to rally, and pour in upon the Normans behind, by which Duke Robert's army was almost encompassed;
yet they kept their ground awhile, and made several charges, until at length, perfectly overborne
by numbers, they were utterly defeated. There Duke Robert, doing all the parts of a great captain,
was taken prisoner, together with the Earl of Mortaigne, and almost his whole army: for being
hemmed in on all sides, few of them could make their escape. Thus, in the space of forty years;
Normandy subdued England, and England Normandy; which are events perhaps hardly to be paralleled
in any other ages or parts of the world.

  1107.

The King, having stayed a while to settle the state of Normandy, returned with his brother
into England, whom he sent prisoner to Cardiff Castle, with orders that he should be favourably
used, which, for some time, were duly observed; until being accused of attempting to make his
escape (whether it were real or feigned) he had his eyes put out with a burning basin, by the
King's express commands; in which miserable condition he lived for six-and-twenty years.

It is believed the King would hardly have engaged in this unnatural and invidious war, with
so little pretence or provocation, if the Pope had not openly approved and sanctified his cause,
exhorting him to it as a meritorious action; which seems to have been but an ill return from
the Vicar of CHRIST to a prince who had performed so many brave exploits for the service of
the Church, to the hazard of his person, and ruin of his fortune. But the very bigoted monks,
who have left us their accounts of those times, do generally agree in heavily taxing the Roman
court for bribery and corruption. And the King had promised to remit his right of investing
bishops, which he performed immediately after his reduction of Normandy, and was a matter of
much more service to the Pope, than all the achievements of Duke Robert in the Holy Land, whose
merits, as well as pretensions, were now antiquated and out of date.

  1109.

About this time the Emperor Henry V. sent to desire Maud, the King's daughter in marriage,
who was then a child about eight years old: that prince had lately been embroiled in a quarrel
with the see of Rome, which began upon the same subject of investing bishops, but was carried
to great extremities: for invading Italy with a mighty army, he took the Pope prisoner, forced
him to yield to whatever terms he thought fit to impose, and to take an oath of fidelity to
him between his hands: however, as soon as Henry had withdrawn his forces, the Pope assembling
a council, revoked all his concessions, as extorted by compulsion, and raised great troubles
in Germany against the Emperor, who, in order to secure himself, sought this alliance with
the King.

About this time likewise died Archbishop Anselm, a prelate of great piety and learning, whose
zeal for the see of Rome, as well as for his own rights and privileges, should in justice be
imputed to the errors of the time, and not of the man. After his death, the King, following
the steps of his brother, held the see vacant five years, contenting himself with an excuse,
which looked like a jest, That he only waited until he could find another so good a man as Anselm.

In the fourteenth year of this King's reign, the Welsh, after their usual manner, invaded the
Marches with great fury and destruction; but the King, hoping to put a final end to those perpetual
troubles and vexations given to his kingdom by that unquiet people, went in person against
them with a powerful army; and to prevent their usual stratagem of retreating to their woods
and mountains, and other fastnesses, he ordered the woods to be cut down, beset all their places
of security, and hunting them like wild beasts, made so terrible a slaughter, that at length
observing them to fling down their arms, and beg for quarter, he commanded his soldiers to
forbear; then receiving their submissions, and placing garrisons where he thought necessary,
he returned, in great triumph and satisfaction, to London.

  1114.

The Princess Maud being now marriageable, was delivered to the Emperor's ambassador; and for
a portion to the young lady a tax was imposed of three shillings upon every hide of land in
England, which grew afterwards into a custom,[19] and was in succeeding times confirmed by
Acts of Parliament, under the name of "Reasonable Aid for marrying the King's Daughter," although
levied after a different manner.

[Footnote 19: This was the first occasion of the feudal tax called scutage being levied in
England. [W.S.J.]]

As the institution of Parliaments in England is agreed by several writers to be owing to this
King, so the date of the first hath been assigned by some to the fifteenth year of his reign;
which however is not to be affirmed with any certainty: for great councils were convoked not
only in the two preceding reigns, but for time immemorial by the Saxon princes, who first introduced
them into this island, from the same original with the other Gothic forms of government in
most parts of Europe. These councils or assemblies were composed according to the pleasure
of the prince who convened them, generally of nobles and bishops, sometimes were added some
considerable commoners; but they seldom met, except in the beginning of a reign, or in times
of war, until this King came to the crown; who being a wise and popular prince, called these
great assemblies upon most important affairs of his reign, and ever followed their advice,
which, if it proved successful, the honour and advantage redounded to him, and if otherwise,
he was free from the blame: thus when he chose a wife for himself, and a husband for his daughter,
when he designed his expedition against Robert, and even for the election of an archbishop
to the see of Canterbury, he proceeded wholly by the advice of such general assemblies, summoned
for the purpose. But the style of these conventions, as delivered by several authors, is very
various; sometimes it is comites, barones, et cleri;[20] his marriage was agreed on, consilio
majorum natu et magnatum terrae. One author[21] calls it concilium principum, sacerdotum, et
reliqui populi. And for the election of an archbishop, the Saxon Chronicle says, That he commanded
by letters all bishops, abbots, and thanes to meet him at Gloucester ad procerum conventum.
Lastly, some affirm these assemblies to have been an imitation of the three estates in Normandy.
I am very sensible how much time and pains have been employed by several learned men to search
out the original of Parliaments in England, wherein I doubt they have little satisfied others
or themselves. I know likewise that to engage in the same enquiry, would neither suit my abilities
nor my subject. It may be sufficient for my purpose, if I be able to give some little light
into this matter, for the curiosity of those who are less informed.

[Footnote 20: Brompton. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 21: Polydore Virgil. [D.S.]]

The institution of a state or commonwealth out of a mixture of the three forms of government
received in the schools, however it be derided as a solecism and absurdity by some late writers
on politics, hath been very ancient in the world, and is celebrated by the gravest authors
of antiquity. For although the supreme power cannot properly be said to be divided, yet it
may be so placed in three several hands, as each to be a check upon the other; or formed into
a balance, which is held by him that has the executive power, with the nobility and people
in counterpoise in each scale. Thus the kingdom of Media is represented by Xenophon before
the reign of Cyrus; so Polybius tells us, the best government is a mixture of the three forms,
regno, optimatium, et populi imperio: the same was that of Sparta in its primitive institution
by Lycurgus, made up of reges, seniores, et populus; the like may be asserted of Rome, Carthage,
and other states: and the Germans of old fell upon the same model, from whence the Goths their
neighbours, with the rest of those northern people, did perhaps borrow it. But an assembly
of the three estates is not properly of Gothic institution: for these fierce people, when upon
the decline of the Roman Empire they first invaded Europe, and settled so many kingdoms in
Italy, Spain, and other parts, were all Heathens; and when a body of them had fixed themselves
in a tract of land left desolate by the flight or destruction of the natives, their military
government by time and peace became civil; the general was king, his great officers were his
nobles and ministers of state, and the common soldiers the body of the people; but these were
freemen, and had smaller portions of land assigned them. The remaining natives were all slaves;
the nobles were a standing council; and upon affairs of great importance, the freemen were
likewise called by their representatives to give their advice. By which it appears, that the
Gothic frame of government consisted at first but of two states or assemblies, under the administration
of a single person. But after the conversion of these princes and their people to the Christian
faith, the Church became endowed with great possessions, as well by the bounty of kings, as
the arts and industry of the clergy, winning upon the devotion of their new converts: and power,
by the common maxim, always accompanying property, the ecclesiastics began soon to grow considerable,
to form themselves into a body, and to call assemblies or synods by their own authority, or
sometimes by the command of their princes, who in an ignorant age had a mighty veneration for
their learning as well as piety. By such degrees the Church arrived at length, by very justifiable
steps, to have her share in the commonwealth, and became a third estate in most kingdoms of
Europe; but these assemblies, as we have already observed, were seldom called in England before
the reign of this prince, nor even then were always composed after the same manner: neither
does it appear from the writers who lived nearest to that age, that the people had any representative
at all, beside the barons and other nobles, who did not sit in those assemblies by virtue of
their birth or creation, but of the lands or baronies they held. So that the present constitution
of the English Parliament hath, by many degrees and alterations, been modelled to the frame
it is now in; which alterations I shall observe in the succeeding reigns as exactly as I can
discover them by a diligent search into the histories of the several ages, without engaging
in the controverted points of law about this matter, which would rather perplex the reader
than inform him.

  1116.

But to return, Louis the Gross King of France, a valiant and active prince, in the flower of
his age, succeeding to that crown that Robert was deprived of, Normandy, grew jealous of the
neighbourhood and power of King Henry, and begun early to entertain designs either of subduing
that duchy to himself, or at least of making a considerable party against the King in favour
of William son of Robert, whom for that end he had taken into his protection. Pursuant to these
intentions, he soon found an occasion for a quarrel: expostulating with Henry, that he had
broken his promise by not doing homage for the Duchy of Normandy, as well as by neglecting
to raze the castle of Gisors,[22] which was built on the French side of the river Epte, the
common boundary between both dominions.

[Footnote 22: Father Daniel says that for some years past it had been agreed that Gisors "should
be sequestered in the hands of a lord called Pagan or Payen, who was to receive into it neither
English or Norman, nor French troops; and in case it should fall into the hands of either of
the two kings, it was stipulated, that the walls should be razed within the space of forty
days" ("Hist. of France," i. 369). [W.S.J.] ]

But an incident soon offered, which gave King Henry a pretext for retaliating almost in the
same manner: for it happened that upon some offence taken against his nephew Theobald Count
of Blois by the French King, Louis in great rage sent an army to invade and ravage the earl's
territories. Theobald defended himself for a while with much valour; but at length in danger
to be overpowered, requested aid of his uncle the King of England, who supported him so effectually
with men and money, that he was able not only to defend his own country, but very much to infest
and annoy his enemy. Thus a war was kindled between the two kings; Louis now openly asserted
the title of William the son of Robert, and entering into an alliance with the Earls of Flanders
and Anjou, began to concert measures for driving King Henry out of Normandy.

The King having timely intelligence of his enemy's designs, began with great vigour and dispatch
to prepare himself for war: he raised, with much difficulty and discontent of his people, the
greatest tax that had ever been known in England; and passing over into Normandy with a mighty
army, joined his nephew Theobald. The King of France, who had entertained hopes that he should
overrun the duchy before his enemy could arrive, advanced with great security towards the frontiers
of Normandy; but observing an enemy of equal number and force already prepared to engage him,
he suddenly stopped his march. The two armies faced one another for some hours, neither side
offering battle; the rest of the day was spent in light skirmishes begun by the French, and
repeated for some days following with various success; but the remainder of the year passed
without any considerable action.

  1119.

At length the violence of the two princes brought it to a battle: for Louis, to give a reputation
to his arms, advanced towards the frontiers of Normandy, and after a short siege took Gué Nicaise;[23]
there the King met him, and the fight began, which continued with great obstinacy on both sides
for nine hours. The French army was divided into two bodies, and the English into three; by
which means, that part where the King fought in person, being attacked by a superior number,
began to give way; and William Crispin, a Norman baron, singling out the King of England (whose
subject he had been, but banished for treason) struck him twice in the head with so much violence,
that the blood gushed out of his mouth. The King inflamed with rage and indignation, dealt
such furious blows, that he struck down several of his enemies, and Crispin among the rest,
who was taken prisoner at his horse's feet. The soldiers encouraged by the valour of their
prince, rallied and fell on with fresh vigour, and the victory seemed doubtful, when William
the son of King Henry, to whom his father had entrusted the third body of his army, which had
not yet engaged, fell on with this fresh reserve upon the enemy, who was already very much
harassed with the toil of the day: this quickly decided the matter; for the French, though
valiantly fighting, were overcome, with the slaughter of several thousand men; their King quitted
the field, and withdrew to Andely; but the King of England recovering Gué Nicaise, returned
triumphant to Rouen.

[Footnote 23: At that time reckoned an important fortress on the river Epte. [D.S.]]

This important victory was followed by the defection of the Earl of Anjou to King Henry, and
the Earl of Flanders fell in the battle; by which the King of France was at once deprived of
two powerful allies. However, by the intercession of the former, a peace was soon after made
between both crowns. William the King's son did homage to Louis for the Dukedom of Normandy;
and the other William, following the fortunes of his father, was left to his pretensions and
complaints.

It is here observable, that from this time until Wales was subdued to the English crown, the
eldest sons of England were called Dukes of Normandy, as they are now Princes of Wales.

  1120.

The King having stayed some time in Normandy, for the settlement of his duchy after the calamities
and confusions of a war, returned to England, to the very great satisfaction of his people
and himself. He had enlarged his dominions by the conquest of Normandy; he had subdued all
his competitors, and forced even the King of France, their great protector, after a glorious
victory, to his own conditions of a peace; he was upon very good terms with the Pope, who had
a great esteem and friendship for his person, and made him larger concessions than was usual
from that see, and in those ages. At home he was respected by the clergy, reverenced by the
nobles, and beloved by the people; in his family he was blessed with a son of much hopes, just
growing to years of manhood, and his daughter was an empress; so that he seemed to possess
as great a share of happiness as human life is capable to admit. But the felicity of man depends
upon a conjunction of many circumstances, which are all subject to various accidents, and every
single accident is able to dissolve the whole contexture; which truth was never verified more
than in this prince, who by one domestic misfortune, not to be prevented or foreseen, found
all the pleasure and content he proposed to himself by his prudence, his industry, and his
valour, wholly disappointed and destroyed: for William the young prince having embarked at
Barfleur some time after his father, the mariners being all drunk, suffered the ship to run
upon a rock, where it was dashed to pieces: the prince made a shift to get into the boat, and
was making to the shore, until forced back by the cries of his sister, whom he received into
the boat, so many others crowded in at the same time, that it was immediately overturned. There
perished, beside the prince, a natural son and daughter of the King's, his niece, and many
other persons of quality, together with all their attendants and servants, to the number of
a hundred and forty, beside fifty mariners, but one person escaping.

Although the King survived this cruel misfortune many years, yet he could never recover his
former humour, but grew melancholy and morose; however, in order to provide better for the
peace and settlement of the kingdom after his death, about five months after the loss of his
son, his former Queen having died three years before, he married Adeliza, a beautiful young
lady of the family of Lorraine,[24] in hopes of issue by her, but never had any.

[Footnote 24: She was daughter of Godfrey Duke of Louvain, or the Lower Lorraine. [D.S.]]

  1124.

The death of the prince gave occasion to some new troubles in Normandy; for the Earls of Meulant
and Evreux, Hugh de Montfort, and other associates, began to raise insurrections there, which
were thought to be privately fomented by the French King, out of enmity to King Henry, and
in favour of William the son of Robert, to whom the Earl of Anjou had lately given his daughter
in marriage. But William of Tankerville, the King's lieutenant in Normandy, surprising the
enemy's forces by an ambush, entirely routed them, took both the earls prisoners, and sent
one of them (Meulant) to his master; but the Count d'Evreux made his escape.

  1126.

King Henry having now lost hope of issue by his new Queen, brought with him, on his return
to England, his daughter Maud, who by the Emperor's death had been lately left a widow and
childless; and in a Parliament or general assembly which he had summoned at Windsor, he caused
the crown to be settled on her and her children, and made all his nobles take a solemn oath
to defend her title. This was performed by none with so much forwardness as Stephen Earl of
Boulogne, who was observed to shew a more than ordinary zeal in the matter. This young lord
was the King's nephew, being second son of the Earl of Blois by Adela the Conqueror's daughter:
he was in high favour with the King his uncle, who had married him to the daughter and heiress
of the Earl of Boulogne, given him great possessions in England, and made him indeed too powerful
for a subject.

The King having thus fixed the succession of the crown in his daughter by an Act of Settlement
and an oath of fealty, looked about to provide her with a second husband, and at length determined
his choice in Geoffrey Plantagenet Earl of Anjou, the son of Fulk lately deceased.

This prince, whose dominions confined on France and Normandy, was usually courted for an ally
by both Kings in their several quarrels; but having little faith or honour, he never scrupled
to change sides as often as he saw or conceived it for his advantage. After the great victory
over the French, he closed in with King Henry, and gave his daughter to the young prince William;
yet at the same time, by the private encouragement of Louis, he prevailed on the King of England
to be easy in the conditions of a peace. Upon the unfortunate loss of the prince, and the troubles
in Normandy thereupon, he fell again from the King, gave his other daughter to William the
son of Robert, and struck up with France to take that prince again into protection. But dying
soon after, and leaving his son Geoffrey to succeed in that earldom, the King was of opinion
he could not anywhere bestow his daughter with more advantage, both for the security and enlargement
of his dominions, than by giving her to this earl; by which marriage Anjou would become an
acquisition to Normandy, and this be a more equal match to so formidable a neighbour as France.
In a short time the marriage was concluded; and this Earl Geoffrey had the honour to introduce
into the royal family of England the surname of Plantagenet, borne by so many succeeding Kings,
which began with Henry II. who was the eldest son of this marriage.

But the King of France was in great discontent at this match: he easily foresaw the dismal
consequences to himself and his successors from such an increase of dominion united to the
crown of England: he knew what impressions might be made in future times to the shaking of
his throne by an aspiring and warlike king, if they should happen in a weak reign, or upon
any great discontents in that kingdom. Which conjectures being highly reasonable (and since
often verified by events) he cast about to find some way of driving the King of England entirely
out of France; but having neither pretext nor stomach in the midst of a peace to begin an open
and formal quarrel, there fell out an accident which gave him plausible occasion of pursuing
his design.

Charles the Good Earl of Flanders having been lately murdered by some of his subjects, upon
private revenge, the King of France went in person to take revenge of the assassins; which
he performed with great justice and honour. But the late earl leaving no heir of his body,
and several competitors appearing to dispute the succession, Louis rejected some others who
seemed to have a fairer title, and adjudged it to William the son of Robert, the better to
secure him to his interests upon any design he might engage in against the King of England.
Not content with this, he assisted the Earl in person, subdued his rivals, and left him in
peaceable possession of his new dominion.

King Henry, on the other side, was very apprehensive of his nephew's greatness, well knowing
to what end it was directed; however, he seemed not to regard it, contenting himself to give
the Earl employment at home by privately nourishing the discontents of his new subjects, and
abetting underhand another pretender: for William had so entirely lost the hearts of his people,
by his intolerable avarice and exactions, that the principal towns in Flanders revolted from
him, and invited Thierri Earl of Alsace to be their governor. But the King of France generously
resolved to appear once more in his defence, and took his third expedition into Flanders for
that purpose. He had marched as far as Artois, when he was suddenly recalled to defend his
own dominions from the fury of a powerful and provoked invader: for Henry King of England,
moved with indignation to see the French King in the midst of a peace so frequently and openly
supporting his most dangerous enemy, thought it the best way to divert Louis from kindling
a fire against him abroad, by forcing him to extinguish one at home: he therefore entered into
the bowels of France, ravaging and laying waste all before him, and quickly grew so formidable,
that the French King to purchase a peace was forced to promise never more to assist or favour
the Earl of Flanders; however, as it fell out, this article proved to be wholly needless; for
the young Earl soon after gave battle to Thierri, and put his whole army to the rout; but pursuing
his victory, he received a wound in his wrist, which, by the unskilfulness of a surgeon, cost
him his life.[24]

[Footnote 24: The lance passed through or under the ball of his thumb into his wrist. The wound
gangrening, he died within five days. [D.S.]]

This one slight inconsiderable accident did, in all probability, put a stop to very great events;
for if that young prince had survived his victory, it is hardly to be doubted but through the
justness of his cause, the reputation of his valour, and the assistance of the King of France,
he would in a little time have recovered Normandy, and perhaps his father's liberty, which
were the two designs he had in agitation; nor could he well have missed the crown of England
after the King's death, who was now in his decline, when he had so fair a title, and no competitors
in view but a woman and an infant.

  1129.

Upon the King's return from Normandy, a great council of the clergy was held at London, for
the punishing of priests who lived in concubinage, which was the great grievance of the Church
in those ages, and had been condemned by several canons. This assembly thinking to take a more
effectual course against that abomination, as it was called, decreed severe penalties upon
those who should be guilty of breaking it, entreating the King to see the law put in execution;
which he very readily undertook, but performed otherwise than was expected, eluding the force
of the law by an evasion to his own advantage: for exacting fines of the delinquent priests,
he suffered them to keep their concubines without further disturbance. A very unaccountable
step in so wise a body for their own concernments, as the clergy of those times is looked upon
to have been; and although perhaps the fact be not worth recording, it may serve as a lesson
to all assemblies never to trust the execution of a law in the hands of those who will find
it more to their interests to see it broken than observed.

  1132.

The Empress Maud was now happily delivered of a son, who was afterwards King of England by
the name of Henry the Second: and the King calling a Parliament, had the oath of fealty repeated
by the nobles and clergy to her and her issue, which in the compass of three years they all
broke or forgot.

  1134.

I think it may deserve a place in this history to mention the last scene of Duke Robert's life,
who, either through the poorness or greatness of spirit, having outlived the loss of his honour,
his dominions, his liberty, his eyesight, and his only son, was at last forced to sink under
the load of eighty years, and must be allowed for the greatest example either of insensibility
or contempt of earthly things, that ever appeared in a sovereign or private person. He was
a prince hardly equalled by any in his time for valour, conduct, and courtesy; but his ruin
began from the easiness of his nature, which whoever knew how to manage, were sure to be refused
nothing they could ask. By such profusion he was reduced to those unhappy expedients of remitting
his rights for a pension, of pawning his towns, and multiplying taxes, which brought him into
hatred and contempt with his subjects; neither do I think any virtue so little commendable
in a sovereign as that of liberality, where it exceeds what his ordinary revenues can supply;
where it passes those bounds, his subjects must all be oppressed to shew his bounty to a few
flatterers, or he must sell his towns, or basely renounce his rights, by becoming pensioner
to some powerful prince in the neighbourhood; all which we have lived to see performed by a
late monarch in our own time and country.

  1135.

Since the reduction of Normandy to the King's obedience, he found it necessary for his affairs
to spend in that duchy some part of his time almost every year, and a little before the death
of Robert he made his last voyage there. It was observable in this prince, that having some
years past very narrowly escaped shipwreck in his passage from Normandy into England, the sense
of his danger had made very deep impressions on his mind, which he discovered by a great reformation
in his life, by redressing several grievances, and doing many acts of piety; and to shew the
steadiness of his resolutions, he kept them to the last, making a progress through most parts
of Normandy, treating his subjects in all places with great familiarity and kindness, granting
their petitions, easing their taxes, and, in a word, giving all possible marks of a religious,
wise, and gracious prince.

Returning to St. Denys le Ferment from his progress a little indisposed, he there fell into
a fever upon a surfeit of lamprey, which in a few days ended his life. His body was conveyed
to England, and buried at Reading in the abbey-church himself had founded.

It is hard to affirm anything peculiar of this prince's character; those authors who have attempted
it mentioning very little but what was common to him with thousands of other men; neither have
they recorded any of those personal circumstances or passages, which only can discover such
qualities of the mind as most distinguish one man from another. These defects may perhaps appear
in the stories of many succeeding kings; which makes me hope I shall not be altogether blamed
for sometimes disappointing the reader in a point wherein I could wish to be the most exact.

As to his person, he is described to be of middle stature; his body strong set and fleshy;
his hair black; his eyes large; his countenance amiable, and very pleasant, especially when
he was merry. He was temperate in meat and drink, and a hater of effeminacy, a vice or folly
much complained of in his time, especially that circumstance of long artificial hair, which
he forbade upon severe penalties. His three principal virtues were prudence, valour, and eloquence.
These were counterbalanced by three great vices; avarice, cruelty, and lust; of which the first
is proved by the frequency of his taxes; the second by his treatment of Duke Robert; and the
last was notorious. But the proof of his virtues doth not depend on single instances, manifesting
themselves through the whole course of a long reign, which was hardly attended by any misfortune
that prudence, justice, or valour could prevent. He came to the crown at a ripe age, when he
had passed thirty years, having learned, in his private life, to struggle with hardships, whereof
he had his share, from the capriciousness and injustice of both his brothers; and by observing
their failures, he had learned to avoid them in himself, being steady and uniform in his whole
conduct, which were qualities they both seemed chiefly to want. This likewise made him so very
tenacious as he was observed to be in his love and hatred. He was a strict observer of justice,
which he seems never to have violated, but in that particular case, which political casuists
are pleased to dispense with, where the dispute is about a crown. In that he[25] * * * * * *

[Footnote 25: Here the sentence breaks off short, and is left unfinished. [D.S.]]

Consider him as a private man, he was perhaps the most accomplished person of his age, having
a facetious wit, cultivated by learning, and advanced with a great share of natural eloquence,
which was his peculiar talent: and it was no doubt the sense he had of this last perfection
in himself, that put him so often upon calling together the great councils of the nation, where
natural oratory is of most figure as well as use.

THE REIGN OF STEPHEN.

The veneration which people are supposed naturally to pay to a right line, and a lawful title
in their kings, must be upheld by a long uninterrupted succession, otherwise it quickly loses
opinion, upon which the strength of it, although not the justice, is entirely founded: and
where breaches have been already made in the lineal descent, there is little security in a
good title (though confirmed by promises and oaths) where the lawful heir is absent, and a
popular aspiring pretender near at hand. This, I think, may pass for a maxim, if any consequences
drawn from history can pretend to be called so, having been verified successively three times
in this kingdom, I mean by the two preceding kings, and by the prince whose reign we are now
writing. Neither can this observation be justly controlled by any instances brought of future
princes, who being absent at their predecessor's death, have peaceably succeeded, the circumstances
being very different in every case, either by the weakness or justice of pretenders, or else
by the long establishment of lineal succession.

  1135.

Stephen Earl of Boulogne, whose descent hath been already shewn in the foregoing reign, was
the second of three brothers, whereof the eldest was Theobald Earl of Blois, a sovereign prince,
and Henry the youngest was Bishop of Winchester, and the Pope's legate in England. At the time
of King Henry's death, his daughter the Empress was with her husband the Earl of Anjou, a grave
and cautious prince, altogether unqualified for sudden enterprises: but Earl Stephen, who had
attended the King in his last expedition, made so great dispatch for England,[26] that the
council had not time to meet and make any declaration about a successor. When the lords were
assembled, the legate had already, by his credit and influence among them, brought over a great
party to his brother's interests; and the Earl himself, knowing with what success the like
methods were used by his two last predecessors, was very liberal of his promises to amend the
laws, support the Church, and redress grievances: for all which the bishop undertook to be
guarantee. And thus was Stephen elected by those very persons who had so lately, and in so
solemn a manner, more than once sworn fealty to another.

[Footnote 26: Stephen was at Boulogne when he received the news of Henry's death. [D.S.]]

The motives whereby the nobility was swayed to proceed after this manner, were obvious enough.
There had been a perpetual struggle between them and their former kings in the defence of their
liberties; for the security whereof, they thought a king elected without other title, would
be readier to enter into any obligations, and being held in constant dependence, would be less
tempted to break them: therefore, as at his coronation they obtained full security by his taking
new and additional oaths in favour of their liberties, their oath of fealty to him was but
conditional, to be of force no longer than he should be true to those stipulations.

But other reasons were contrived and given out to satisfy the people: they were told it was
an indignity for so noble a nation to be governed by a woman; that the late King had promised
to marry his daughter within the realm, and by consent of Parliament, neither of which was
observed: and lastly, Hugh Bigod, steward to King Henry, took a voluntary oath, before the
Archbishop of Canterbury, that his master, in his last sickness, had, upon some displeasure,
disinherited his daughter.

He received the crown with one great advantage that could best enable him to preserve it: this
was the possession of his uncle's treasures, amounting to one hundred thousand pounds, and
reckoned as a prodigious sum in those days; by the help of which, without ever raising one
tax upon the people, he defended an unjust title against the lawful heir during a perpetual
contest of almost twenty years.

In order to defend himself against any sudden invasion, which he had cause enough to expect,
he gave all men licence to build castles upon their lands, which proved a very mistaken piece
of politics, although grounded upon some appearance of reason. The King supposed that no invader
would venture to advance into the heart of his country without reducing every castle in his
way, which must be a work of much time and difficulty, nor would be able to afford men to block
them up, and secure his retreat: which way of arguing may be good enough to a prince of an
undisputed title, and entirely in the hearts of his subjects: but numerous castles are ill
defenders of an usurpation, being the common retreat of malcontents, where they can fly with
security, and discover their affections as they please: by which means the enemy, although
beaten in the field, may still preserve his footing in the bowels of a country; may wait supplies
from abroad; and prolong a war for many years: nor, while he is master of any castles, can
he ever be at mercy by any sudden misfortune; but may be always in a condition of demanding
terms for himself. These, and many other effects of so pernicious a counsel, the King found
through the whole course of his reign; which was entirely spent in sieges, revolts, surprises,
and surrenders, with very few battles, but no decisive action: a period of much misery and
confusion, which affords little that is memorable for events, or useful for the instruction
of posterity.

  1136.

The first considerable enemy that appeared against him was David King of Scots, who having
taken the oath of fealty to Maud and her issue, being further engaged by the ties of blood,
and stirred up through the persuasions of several English nobles, began to take up arms in
her cause; and invading the northern parts, took Carlisle and Newcastle; but upon the King's
speedy approach with his forces, a peace was presently made, and the towns restored. However,
the Scottish prince would, by no means, renounce his fidelity to the Empress, by paying homage
to Stephen; so that an expedient was found to have it performed by his eldest son: in consideration
of which the King gave, or rather restored, to him the Earldom of Huntingdon.

Upon his return to London from this expedition, he happened to fall sick of a lethargy, and
it was confidently given out that he was dead. This report was, with great industry and artifice,
dispersed by his enemies, which quickly discovered the ill inclination of several lords, who,
although they never believed the thing, yet made use of it for an occasion or pretext to fortify
their castles, which they refused to surrender to the King himself; but Stephen was resolved,
as he said, to convince them that he was alive and well; for coming against them before he
was expected, he recovered Exeter, Norwich,[27] and other fortified places, although not without
much difficulty.

[Footnote 27: Hugh Bigod had seized Norwich Castle. [D.S.]]

It is obvious enough to wonder how a prince of so much valour, and other excellent endowments,
elected by the Church and State, after a compliance with all conditions they could impose on
him, and in an age when so little regard was had to the lineal descent, lastly confirmed by
the Pope himself, should be soon deserted and opposed by those very persons who had been the
most instrumental to promote him. But, beside his defective title, and the undistinguished
liberty of building castles, there were three circumstances which very much contributed to
those perpetual revolts of the nobles against him: first, that upon his coming to the crown
he was very liberal in distributing lands and honours to several young gentlemen of noble birth,
who came to make their court, whereby he hoped to get the reputation of a generous prince,
and to strengthen his party against the Empress: but, by this encouragement, the number of
pretenders quickly grew too fast upon him; and when he had granted all he was able, he was
forced to dismiss the rest with promises and excuses, who, either out of envy or discontent,
or else to mend their fortunes, never failed to become his enemies upon the first occasion
that offered. Secondly, when he had reduced several castles and towns which had given the first
example of disaffection from him, he hardly inflicted the least punishment on the authors;
which unseasonable mercy, that in another prince and another age would have been called greatness
of spirit, passed in him for pusillanimity and fear, and is reckoned, by the writers of those
times to have been the cause of many succeeding revolts. The third circumstance was of a different
kind: for, observing how little good effect he had found by his liberality and indulgence,
he would needs try the other extreme, which was not his talent. He began to infringe the articles
of his charter; to recall or disown the promises he had made; and to repulse petitioners with
rough treatment, which was the more unacceptable by being new and unexpected.

  1137.

Mean time the Earl of Anjou, who was not in a condition to assert his wife's title to England,
hearing Stephen was employed at home, entered Normandy with small force, and found it no difficult
matter to seize several towns. The Normans, in the present distraction of affairs, not well
knowing what prince to obey, at last sent an invitation to Theobald Earl of Blois, King Stephen's
eldest brother, to accept their dukedom upon the condition of protecting them from the present
insults of the Earl of Anjou. But before this matter could come to an issue, Stephen, who,
upon reduction of the towns already mentioned, had found a short interval of quiet from his
English subjects, arrived with unexpected speed into Normandy; where Geoffrey of Anjou soon
fled before him, and the whole duchy came over to his obedience; for the further settlement
whereof he made peace with the King of France; constituted his son Eustace Duke of Normandy;
and made him swear fealty to that Prince, and do him homage. His brother Theobald, who began
to expostulate upon this disappointment, he pacified with a pension of two thousand marks:[28]
and even the Earl of Anjou himself, who, in right of his wife, made demands of Stephen for
the kingdom of England, finding he was no equal match at present, was persuaded to become his
pensioner for five thousand more.[29]

[Footnote 28: The mark of Normandy is to be understood here. Such a pension in that age was
equivalent to one of £31,000 sterling in the present. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 29: Five thousand marks of silver coin was, in this reign, of the same value as the
sum of £77,500 modern currency, is now. Here again the Norman mark seems to be used. [D.S.]]

Stephen, upon his return to England, met with an account of new troubles from the north; for
the King of Scots, under pretence of observing his oath of fealty to the Empress, infested
the Borders, and frequently making cruel inroads, plundered and laid waste all before him.

  1138.

In order to revenge this base and perfidious treatment, the King, in his march northward, sat
down before Bedford, and took it after a siege of twenty days. This town was part of the Earldom
of Huntingdon, given by Stephen in the late peace to the eldest son of the Scottish King, for
which the young prince did homage to him; and it was upon that account defended by a garrison
of Scots. Upon intelligence of this surrender, King David, overcome with fury, entered Northumberland,
where, letting loose the rage of his soldiers, he permitted and encouraged them to commit all
manner of inhumanities; which they performed in so execrable a manner as would scarce be credible,
if it were not attested by almost the universal consent of writers: they ripped up women with
child, drew out the infants, and tossed them upon the points of their lances: they murdered
priests before the altars; then cutting the heads from off the crucifixes, in their stead put
on the heads of those they had murdered: with many other instances of monstrous barbarity too
foul to relate: but cruelty being usually attended with cowardice, this perfidious prince,
upon the approach of King Stephen, fled into places of security. The King of England, finding
no enemy on whom to employ his revenge, marched forward into the country, destroying with fire
and sword all the southern parts; and would, in all probability, have made terrible impressions
into the heart of Scotland, if he had not been suddenly recalled by a more dangerous fire at
home, which had been kindled in his absence, and was now broken out into a flame.

Robert Earl of Gloucester, natural son of the late King, came into England some time after
the advancement of Stephen to the crown; and, yielding to the necessity of the time, took the
oath of fealty upon the same condition used by the other nobles, to be of force so long as
the King should keep his faith with him, and preserve his dignity inviolate: but, being in
his heart wholly devoted to the interests of the Empress his sister, and moved by the persuasions
of several religious men, he had, with great secrecy and application, so far practised upon
the levity or discontents of several lords, as to gain them to his party: for the King had,
of late, very much alienated the nobles against him; first, by seizing several of their persons,
and dispossessing them of their lands; and, secondly, by taking into his favour William d'Ypres,
a Flemish commander, of noble birth, but banished by his prince. This man, with many of his
followers, the King employed chiefly both in his councils and his armies, and made him Earl
of Kent, to the great envy and displeasure of his English subjects. The Earl of Gloucester,
therefore, and his accomplices, having prepared all things necessary for an insurrection, it
was agreed among them, that while the King was engaged against the Scots, each of them should
secure what towns and castles they could, and openly declare for the Empress. Accordingly Earl
Robert suddenly fortified himself in Bristol; the rest followed his example; Hereford, Shrewsbury,
Ludlow, Dover,[30] and many other places, were seized by several lords, and the defection grew
so formidable, that the King, to his great grief, was forced to leave his Scottish expedition
unfinished, and return with all possible speed to suppress the rebellion begun by his subjects;
having first left the care of the north to Thurstan Archbishop of York; with orders carefully
to observe the motions of the Scots.

[Footnote 30: Robert Earl of Gloucester had been entrusted by Stephen with the custody of Dover
Castle: but Robert lying now under heavy suspicion, the King sent Matilda his queen to besiege
it, in which she was successful. [D.S.]]

Whilst the King was employed in the south in reducing his discontented lords, and their castles,
to his obedience, David, presuming upon the distance between them, reentered England with more
numerous forces, and greater designs, than before: for, without losing more time than what
was necessary to pillage and destroy the country as he marched, he resolved to besiege York,
which, if he could force to surrender, would serve as a convenient frontier against the English.
To this end, advancing near the city, and having pitched his tents, he sat down before it with
his whole army. In the mean time Archbishop Thurstan, having already summoned the nobles and
gentry of the shire and parts adjacent, had, by powerful persuasions incited them to defend
their country against a treacherous, bloody, and restless enemy: so that before the King of
Scotland could make any progress in the siege, the whole power of the north was united against
him, under the Earl of Albemarle, and several other nobles. Archbishop Thurstan happening to
fall sick, could not go in person to the army, but sent the Bishop of Durham in his stead;
by whose encouragements the English, although in number far inferior, advanced boldly towards
the enemy, and offered them battle, which was as readily accepted by the Scots, who, sending
out a party of horse to secure the rising ground, were immediately attacked by the English,
and, after a sharp dispute, entirely defeated. In the heat of the battle the King of Scots,
and his son Henry Earl of Huntingdon, gave many proofs of great personal valour. The young
prince fell with such fierceness upon a body of the English, that he utterly broke and dispersed
them; and was pursuing his victory, when a certain man, bearing aloft the head of an enemy
he had cut off, cried out, It was the head of the Scottish King, which being heard and believed
on both sides, the English, who had lately fled, rallied again, assaulting their enemies with
new vigour; the Scots, on the other side, discouraged by the supposed death of their Prince,
began to turn their backs: the King and his son used all endeavours to stop their flight, and
made several brave stands against the enemy; but the greatest part of their army being fled,
and themselves almost encompassed, they were forced to give way to fortune, and with much difficulty
made their escape.

The loss on the English side was inconsiderable; but of Scots, by general consent of writers,
ten thousand were slain. And thus ended the War of the Standard, as it was usually called by
the authors of that age, because the English, upon a certain engine, raised the mast of a ship,
on the top whereof, in a silver box, they put the consecrated wafer, and fastened the standards
of St. Peter and other saints: this gave them courage, by remembering they were to fight in
the presence of God; and served likewise for a mark where to reassemble when they should happen
to be dispersed by any accident or misfortune.

  1139

Mean time the King was equally successful against his rebellious lords at home, having taken
most of their castles and strong-holds; and the Earl of Gloucester himself, no longer able
to make any resistance, withdrew into Normandy, to concert new measures with the Empress his
sister. Thus the King had leisure and opportunity for another expedition into Scotland, to
pursue and improve his victory, where he met with no opposition: however, he was at length
persuaded with much difficulty to accept his own conditions of a peace; and David delivered
up to him his eldest son Henry, as hostage for performance of articles between them.

The King, in his return homeward, laid siege to Ludlow Castle, which had not been reduced with
the rest: here Prince Henry of Scotland, boiling with youth and valour, and exposing his person
upon all occasions, was lifted from his horse by an iron grapple let down from the wall, and
would have been hoisted up into the castle, if the King had not immediately flown to his assistance,
and brought him off with his own hands by main force from the enemy, whom he soon compelled
to surrender the castle.

  1140

Stephen having thus subdued his inveterate enemies the Scots, and reduced his rebellious nobles,
began to entertain hopes of enjoying a little ease. But he was destined to the possession of
a crown with perpetual disturbance; for he was hardly returned from his northern expedition,
when he received intelligence that the Empress, accompanied by her brother the Earl of Gloucester,
was preparing to come for England, in order to dispute her title to the kingdom. The King,
who knew by experience what a powerful party she already had to espouse her interests, very
reasonably concluded, the defection from him would be much greater, when she appeared in person
to countenance and reward it; he therefore began again to repent of the licence he had granted
for building castles, which were now like to prove so many places of security for his enemies,
and fortifications against himself; for he knew not whom to trust, vehemently suspecting his
nobles ever since their last revolt. He therefore cast about for some artifice to get into
his hands as many of their castles as he could: in the strength and magnificence of which kind
of structures, the bishops had far outdone the rest, and were upon that, as well as other accounts,
very much maligned and envied by the temporal lords, who were extreme jealous of the Church's
increasing power, and glad upon all occasions to see the prelates humbled. The King, therefore,
having formed his project, resolved to make trial where it would be least invidious, and where
he could foresee least danger in the consequences. At a Parliament or assembly of nobles at
Oxford, it was contrived to raise a quarrel between the servants of some bishops and those
of Alan Count of Dinan in Bretagne, upon a contention of rooms in their inns. Stephen took
hold of this advantage, sent for the bishops, taxed them with breaking his peace, and demanded
the keys of their castles, adding threats of imprisonment if they dared to disobey. Those whom
the King chiefly suspected, or rather who had built the most and strongest castles, were Roger
Bishop of Salisbury, with his nephew and natural son the Bishops of Ely and Lincoln, whom the
King, by many circumstances of rigour, compelled to surrender, going himself in person to seize
the Devizes, then esteemed the noblest structure of Europe, and built by the forementioned
Bishop Roger, whose treasure, to the value of forty thousand marks,[31] there likewise deposited,
fell, at the same time, into the King's hand, which in a few days broke the bishop's heart,
already worn with age and infirmity.

[Footnote 31: This prelate's treasure is doubtless computed by the smaller or Saxon mark; the
use of which still prevailed in England: and even thus computed, it amounts to a vast sum,
equal to about £116,350 of modern money. [D.S.]]

It may, perhaps, not be thought a digression to say something of the fortunes of this prelate,
who, from the lowest beginnings, came to be, without dispute, the greatest churchman of any
subject in his age. It happened that the late King Henry, in the reign of his brother, being
at a village in Normandy, wanted a priest to say mass before him and his train, when this man,
who was a poor curate thereabouts, offered his service, and performed it with so much dexterity
and speed, that the soldiers who attended the prince recommended him to their master, upon
that account, as a very proper chaplain for military men; but it seems he had other talents;
for having gotten into the prince's service, he soon discovered great application and address,
much order and economy in the management of his master's fortunes, which were wholly left to
his care. After Henry's advancement to the crown, this chaplain grew chief in his favour and
confidence; was made Bishop of Salisbury, Chancellor of England, employed in all his most weighty
affairs, and usually left vicegerent of the realm while the King was absent in Normandy. He
was among the first that swore fealty to Maud and her issue; and among the first that revolted
from her to Stephen, offering such reasons in council for setting her aside, as, by the credit
and opinion of his wisdom, were very prevalent. But the King, in a few years, forgot all obligations,
and the bishop fell a sacrifice in his old age to those treasures he had been so long heaping
up for its support. A just reward for his ingratitude towards the Prince that raised him, to
be ruined by the ingratitude of another, whom he had been so very instrumental to raise.

But Henry Bishop of Winchester, the Pope's legate, not able to endure this violation of the
Church, called a council of all the prelates to meet at Winchester, where the King being summoned,
appeared by his advocate, who pleaded his cause with much learning; and the Archbishop of Rouen
coming to the council, declared his opinion, That although the canons did allow the bishops
to possess castles, yet in dangerous times they ought to deliver them up to the King. This
opinion Stephen followed very steadily, not yielding a tittle, although the legate his brother
used all means, both rough and gentle, to work upon him.

The council of bishops broke up without other effect than that of leaving in their minds an
implacable hatred to the King, in a very opportune juncture for the interests of Maud, who,
about this time, landed at Portsmouth with her brother Robert Earl of Gloucester. The whole
force she brought over for this expedition consisted but of one hundred and forty knights;[32]
for she trusted altogether in her cause and her friends. With this slender attendance she went
to Arundel, and was there received into the castle by the widow of the late King; while Earl
Robert, accompanied only by twenty men, marched boldly to his own city of Gloucester, in order
to raise forces for the Empress, where the townsmen turned out the King's garrison as soon
as they heard of his approach.

[Footnote 32: In these times none served on horseback but gentlemen or knights, in right of
their fiefs, or their representatives, called Men-at-arms; and each of these was attended by
at least two servants or retainers mounted and armed. [D.S.]]

King Stephen was not surprised at the news of the Empress's arrival, being a thing he had always
counted upon, and was long preparing himself against. He was glad to hear how ill she was provided,
and resolved to use the opportunity of her brother's absence; for, hasting down to Arundel
with a sufficient strength, he laid siege to the castle, in hopes, by securing her person,
to put a speedy end to the war.

But there wanted not some very near about the King, who, favouring the party of Maud, had credit
enough to prevail with him not to venture time and reputation against an impregnable fortress,
but rather, by withdrawing his forces, permit her to retire to some less fortified place, where
she might more easily fall into his hands. This advice the King took against his own opinion;
the Empress fled out of Arundel by night; and, after frequent shifting her stages through several
towns, which had already declared in her favour, fixed herself at last at Lincoln; where, having
all things provided necessary for her defence, she resolved to continue, and expect either
a general revolt of the English to her side, or the decision of war between the King and her
brother.

But Stephen, who had pursued the Empress from place to place, hearing she had shut herself
up in Lincoln, resolved to give her no rest; and to help on his design, it fell out that the
citizens in hatred to the Earl of Chester, who commanded there for the Empress, sent a private
invitation to the King, with promise to deliver the town and their governor into his hands.
The King came accordingly, and possessed himself of the town; but Maud and the Earl made their
escape a few days before. However, many great persons of Maud's party remained prisoners to
the King, and among the rest the Earl of Chester's wife, who was daughter to the Earl of Gloucester.
These two Earls resolving to attempt the relief of their friends, marched with all their forces
near Lincoln, where they found the enemy drawn up and ready to receive them.

The next morning, after battle offered by the lords, and accepted by the King, both sides made
ready to engage. The King having disposed his cavalry on each wing, placed himself at the head
of his foot, in whom he reposed most confidence. The army of the lords was divided in three
bodies; those whom King Stephen had banished were placed in the middle, the Earl of Chester
led the van, and the Earl of Gloucester commanded the rear. The battle was fought at first
with equal advantage, and great obstinacy on both sides; at length the right wing of the King's
horse, pressed by the Earl of Chester, galloped away, not without suspicion of treachery; the
left followed the example. The King beheld their flight, and encouraging those about him, fell
with undaunted valour upon the enemy; and being for some time bravely seconded by his foot,
did great execution. At length overpowered by numbers, his men began to disperse, and Stephen
was left almost alone with his sword in his hand, wherewith he opposed his person against a
whole victorious army, nor durst any be so hardy to approach him; the sword breaking, a citizen
of Lincoln put into his hands a Danish battle-axe,[33] with which he struck to the ground the
Earl of Chester,[34] who presumed to come within his reach. But this weapon likewise flying
in pieces with the force of those furious blows he dealt on all sides, a bold knight of the
Empress's party, named William de Keynes, laid hold on his helmet, and immediately cried out
to his fellows, "I have got the King." Then the rest ran in, and he was taken prisoner.[35]

[Footnote 33: Sim. Dunelmensis. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 34: The Earl of Chester lived nevertheless to fight other battles, and died twelve
years afterwards by poison. [D.S.]]

[Footnote 35: Gervase. [D.S.]]

The King being thus secured, was presented to the Empress, then at Gloucester, and by her orders
conveyed to Bristol, where he continued in strict custody nine months, although with honourable
treatment for some time, until either upon endeavouring to make his escape, or in malice to
the Londoners, who had a great affection for their King, he was, by express command from the
Empress, laid in irons, and used with other circumstances of severity.

This victory was followed by a general defection of almost the whole kingdom; and the Earl
of Anjou, husband to the Empress, upon the fame of the King's defeat and imprisonment, reduced
without any difficulty the whole Duchy of Normandy to his obedience.

The legate himself, although brother to King Stephen, received her at Winchester with great
solemnity, accepted her oath for governing with justice, redressing grievances, and supporting
the rights of the Church, and took the old conditional one of fealty to her; then in an assembly
of bishops and clergy convoked for the purpose, he displayed the miscarriages of his brother,
and declared his approbation of the Empress to be Queen; to which they unanimously agreed.
To complete all, he prevailed by his credit with the Londoners, who stood out the last of any,
to acknowledge and receive her into the city, where she arrived at length in great pomp, and
with general satisfaction.

But it was the misfortune of this Princess to possess many weaknesses that are charged to the
sex, and very few of its commendable qualities: she was now in peaceable possession of the
whole kingdom, except the county of Kent, where William d'Ypres pretended to keep up a small
party for the King; when by her pride, wilfulness, indiscretion, and a disobliging behaviour,
she soon turned the hearts of all men against her, and in a short time lost the fruits of that
victory and success which had been so hardly gained by the prudence and valour of her excellent
brother. The first occasion she took to discover the perverseness of her nature, was in the
treatment of Maud, the wife of King Stephen, a lady of great virtue, and courage above her
sex, who, coming to the Empress an humble suitor in behalf of her husband, offered, as a price
of his liberty, that he should resign all pretensions to the crown, and pass the rest of his
life in exile, or in a convent: but this request was rejected with scorn and reproaches; and
the Queen finding all entreaties to no purpose, writ to her son Eustace to let him understand
the ill success of her negotiation, that no relief was to be otherwise hoped for than by arms,
and therefore advised him to raise immediately what forces he could for the relief of his father.

Her next miscarriage was towards the Londoners, who presented her a petition for redressing
certain rigorous laws of her father, and restoring those of Edward the Confessor. The Empress
put them off for a time with excuses, but at last discovered some displeasure at their importunity.
The citizens, who had with much difficulty been persuaded to receive her against their inclinations,
which stood wholly for the King, were moved with indignation at her unreasonable refusal of
their just demands, and entered into a conspiracy to seize her person. But she had timely notice
of their design, and leaving the city by night in disguise, fled to Oxford.

A third false step the Empress made,[36] was in refusing her new powerful friend the legate
a favour he desired in behalf of Eustace, the King's son, to grant him the lands and honours
held by his father before he came to the crown. She had made large promises to this prelate,
that she would be directed in all things by his advice, and to be refused upon his first application
a small favour for his own nephew, stung him to the quick; however, he governed his resentments
a while, but began at the same time to resume his affection for his brother. These thoughts
were cultivated with great address by Queen Maud, who prevailed at last so far upon the legate,
that private measures were agreed between them for restoring Stephen to his liberty and crown.
The bishop took leave of the Empress, upon some plausible pretence, and retired to Winchester,
where he gave directions for supplying with men and provisions several strong castles he had
built in his diocese, while the Queen with her son Eustace prevailed with the Londoners and
men of Kent to rise in great numbers for the King; and a powerful army was quickly on foot,
under the command of William d'Ypres Earl of Kent.

[Footnote 36: William of Malmesbury. [D.S.]]

In the mean time the Empress began to be sensible of the errors she had committed; and in hope
either to retrieve the friendship of the legate, or take him prisoner, marched with her army
to Winchester, where being received and lodged in the castle, she sent immediately for the
legate, spoke much in excuse of what was past, and used all endeavours to regain him to her
interests. Bishop Henry, on the other side, amused her with dubious answers, and kept her in
suspense for some days; but sent privately at the same time to the King's army, desiring them
to advance with all possible speed; which was executed with so much diligence, that the Empress
and her brother had only time with their troops to march a back way out of the town. They were
pursued by the enemy so close in the rear, that the Empress had hardly time, by counterfeiting
herself dead, to make her escape; in which posture she was carried as a corpse to Gloucester;
but the Earl her brother, while he made what opposition he could, with design to stop her pursuers,
was himself taken prisoner, with great slaughter of his men. After the battle, the Earl was
in his turn presented to Queen Maud, and by her command sent to Rochester to be treated in
the same manner with the King.

Thus the heads of both parties were each in the power of his enemy, and Fortune seemed to have
dealt with great equality between them. Two factions divided the whole kingdom, and, as it
usually happens, private animosities were inflamed by the quarrel of the public; which introduced
a miserable face of things throughout the land, whereof the writers of our English story give
melancholy descriptions, not to be repeated in this history; since the usual effects of civil
war are obvious to conceive, and tiresome as well as useless to relate. However, as the quarrel
between the King and Empress was grounded upon a cause that in its own nature little concerned
the interests of the people, this was thought a convenient juncture for transacting a peace,
to which there appeared an universal disposition. Several expedients were proposed; but Earl
Robert would consent upon no other terms than the deposing of Stephen, and immediate delivery
of the crown to his sister. These debates lasted for some months, until the two prisoners,
weary of their long constraint, by mutual consent were exchanged for each other, and all thoughts
of agreement laid aside.

The King, upon recovery of his freedom, hastened to London, to get supplies of men and money
for renewing the war. He there found that his brother of Winchester had, in a council of bishops
and abbots, renounced all obedience to the Empress, and persuaded the assembly to follow his
example. The legate, in excuse for this proceeding, loaded her with infamy, produced several
instances wherein she had broken the oath she took when he received her as Queen, and upon
which his obedience was grounded; said, he had received information that she had a design upon
his life.[37]

[Footnote 37: William of Malmesbury. [D.S.]]

It must be confessed that oaths of fealty in this Prince's reign were feeble ties for binding
the subject to any reasonable degree of obedience; and the warmest advocates for liberty cannot
but allow, from those examples here produced, that it is very possible for people to run upon
great extremes in this matter, that a monarch may be too much limited, and a subject too little;
whereof the consequences have been fully as pernicious for the time as the worst that can be
apprehended from arbitrary power in all its heights, although not perhaps so lasting or so
hard to be remedied; since all the miseries of this kingdom, during the period we are treating
of, were manifestly owing to that continual violation of such oaths of allegiance, as appear
to have been contrived on purpose by ambitious men to be broken at pleasure, without the least
apprehension of perjury, and in the mean time keep the prince in a continual slavish dependence.

The Earl of Gloucester, soon after his release, went over into Normandy, where he found the
Earl of Anjou employed in completing the conquest of that duchy; there he delivered him the
sons of several English noblemen, to be kept as hostages for their fathers' fidelity to the
Empress, and used many arguments for persuading him to come over in person with an army to
her assistance: but Geoffrey excused himself by the importance of other affairs, and the danger
of exposing the dominions he had newly acquired to rebellions in his absence. However, he lent
the Earl of Gloucester a supply of four hundred men, and sent along with him his eldest son
Henry, to comfort his mother, and be shewn to the people.

During the short absence of the Earl of Gloucester, the Empress was closely besieged in Oxford
by the King; and provisions beginning to fail, she was in cruel apprehensions of falling into
his hands. This gave her occasion to put in practice the only talent wherein she seemed to
excel, which was that of contriving some little shift or expedient to secure her person upon
any sudden emergency. A long season of frost had made the Thames passable upon the ice, and
much snow lay on the ground; Maud with some few attendants clad all in white, to avoid being
discovered from the King's camp, crossed the river at midnight on foot, and travelling all
night, got safe to Wallingford Castle, where her brother and young son Henry, newly returned
from France, arrived soon after, to her great satisfaction: but Oxford, immediately upon the
news of her flight, surrendered to the King.

However, this disgrace was fully compensated soon after by another of the same kind, which
happened to King Stephen; for whilst he and his brother of Winchester were fortifying a nunnery
at Wilton, to bridle his enemies at Salisbury, who very much harassed those parts by their
frequent excursions, the Earl of Gloucester, who watched all opportunities, came unaware with
a strong body of men, and set fire on the nunnery while the King himself was in it. Stephen,
upon the sudden surprise of the thing, wholly lost or forgot his usual courage, and fled shamefully
away, leaving his soldiers to be cut in pieces by the Earl.

During the rest of the war, although it lasted nine years longer, there is little memorable
recorded by any writer; whether the parties being pretty equal, and both sufficiently tired
with so long a contention, wanted vigour and spirit to make a thorough conquest, and only endeavoured
to keep what they had, or whether the multitude of strong castles, whose number daily increased,
made it very difficult to end a war between two contending powers almost in balance; let the
cause be what it will, the whole time passed in mutual sieges, surprises, revolts, surrenders
of fortified places, without any decisive action, or other event of importance to be related.
By which at length the very genius of the people became wholly bent upon a life of spoil, robbery,
and plunder; many of the nobles, although pretending to hold their castles for the King or
the Empress, lived like petty independent princes in a perpetual state of war against their
neighbours; the fields lay uncultivated, all the arts of civil life were banished, no veneration
left for sacred persons or things; in short, no law, truth, or religion among men, but a scene
of universal misery, attended with all the consequences of an embroiled and distracted state.

About the eleventh year of the King's reign, young Henry, now growing towards a man, was sent
for to France by a message from his father, who was desirous to see him; but left a considerable
party in England, to adhere to his interests; and in a short time after (as some write[38])
the Empress herself grown weary of contending any longer in a cause where she had met with
nothing but misfortunes of her own procuring, left the kingdom likewise, and retired to her
husband. Nor was this the only good fortune that befell Stephen; for before the year ended,
the main prop and pillar of his enemies was taken away by death; this was Robert Earl of Gloucester,
than whom there have been few private persons known in the world that deserve a fairer place
and character in the registers of time, for his inviolable faith, disinterested friendship,
indefatigable zeal, and firm constancy to the cause he espoused, and unparalleled generosity
in the conduct thereof: he adhered to his sister in all her fortunes, to the ruin of his own;
he placed a crown on her head; and when she had lost it by her folly and perverseness refused
the greatest offers from a victorious enemy, who had him in his power, and chose to continue
a prisoner rather than recover his liberty by any hazard to her pretensions: he bore up her
sinking title in spite of her own frequent miscarriages, and at last died in her cause by a
fever contracted with perpetual toils for her service. An example fit to be shewn the world,
although few perhaps are like to follow it; but however, a small tribute of praise, justly
due to extraordinary virtue, may prove no ill expedient to encourage imitation.

[Footnote 38: Gervase. [D.S.]]

But the death of this lord, together with the absence of the Empress and her son in France,
added very little to the quiet or security of the King. For the Earl of Gloucester, suspecting
the fidelity of the lords, had, with great sagacity, delivered their sons to the Earl of Anjou,
to be kept as pledges for their fathers' fidelity, as we have before related: by which means
a powerful party was still kept up against Stephen, too strong to be suddenly broken. Besides,
he had, by an unusual strain of his conduct, lately lost much good-will, as well as reputation,
in committing an act of violence and fraud on the person of the Earl of Chester, a principal
adherent of the Empress. This nobleman, of great power and possessions, had newly reconciled
himself to Stephen, and came to his court at Northampton, where, against all laws of hospitality,
as well as common faith and justice, he was committed to prison, and forced to buy his liberty
with the surrender of Lincoln, and all his other places, into the King's hands.

  1149.

  1150.

Affairs continued in this turbulent posture about two years, the nobles neither trusting the
King nor each other. The number of castles still increased, which every man who had any possessions
was forced to build, or else become a prey to his powerful neighbours. This was thought a convenient
juncture, by the Empress and her friends, for sending young Prince Henry to try his fortune
in England, where he landed at the head of a considerable number of horse and foot, although
he was then but sixteen years old. Immediately after his arrival he went to Carlisle, where
he met his cousin David King of Scots, by whom he was made knight, after the usual custom of
young princes and noblemen in that age. The King of England, who had soon intelligence of Henry's
landing and motions, marched down to secure York, against which he expected the first attempt
of his enemy was designed. But, whatever the cause might be (wherein the writers of those ages
are either silent or unsatisfactory) both armies remained at that secure distance for three
months, after which Henry returned back to Normandy, leaving the kingdom in the state of confusion
he found it at his coming.

The fortunes of this young prince Henry Fitz-Empress now began to advance by great and sudden
steps, whereof it will be no digression to inform the reader, as well upon the connection they
have with the affairs at home about this time, as because they concern the immediate successor
to the crown.

  1151.

