"The boy fled like one accursed," Elias went on. "He fled from town to town by mountain and
valley. When he thought that he had reached a place where he was not known, he hired himself
out as a laborer in the house of a rich man in the province of Tayabas. His activity and the
gentleness of his character gained him the good-will of all who did not know his past, and
by his thrift and economy he succeeded in accumulating a little capital. He was still young,
he thought his sorrows buried in the past, and he dreamed of a happy future. His pleasant appearance,
his youth, and his somewhat unfortunate condition won him the love of a young woman of the
town, but he dared not ask for her hand from fear that his past might become known. But love
is stronger than anything else and they wandered from the straight path, so, to save the woman's
honor, he risked everything by asking for her in marriage. The records were sought and his
whole past became known. The girl's father was rich and succeeded in having him prosecuted.
He did not try to defend himself but admitted everything, and so was sent to prison. The woman
gave birth to twins, a boy and a girl, who were nurtured in secret and made to believe that
their father was dead no difficult matter, since at a tender age they saw their mother die,
and they gave little thought to tracing genealogies. As our maternal grandfather was rich our
childhood passed happily. My sister and I were brought up together, loving one another as only
twins can love when they have no other affections. When quite young I was sent to study in
the Jesuit College, and my sister, in order that we might not be completely separated, entered
the Concordia College. [135] After our brief education was finished, since we desired only
to be farmers, we returned to the town to take possession of the inheritance left us by our
grandfather. We lived happily for a time, the future smiled on us, we had many servants, our'
fields produced abundant harvests, and my sister was about to be married to a young man whom
she adored and who responded equally to her affection.

"But in a dispute over money and by reason of my haughty disposition at that time, I alienated
the good will of a distant relative, and one day he east in my face my doubtful birth and shameful
descent. I thought it all a slander and demanded satisfaction. The tomb which covered so much
rottenness was again opened and to my consternation the whole truth came out to overwhelm me.
To add to our sorrow, we had had for many years an old servant who had endured all my whims
without ever leaving us, contenting himself merely with weeping and groaning at the rough jests
of the other servants. I don't know how my relative had found it out, but the fact is that
he had this old man summoned into court and made him tell the truth: that old servant, who
had clung to his beloved children, and whom I had abused many times, was my father! Our happiness
faded away, I gave up our fortune, my sister lost her betrothed, and with our father we left
the town to seek refuge elsewhere. The thought that he had contributed to our misfortunes shortened
the old man's days, but before he died I learned from his lips the whole story of the sorrowful
past.

"My sister and I were left alone. She wept a great deal, but even in the midst of such great
sorrows as heaped themselves upon us, she could not forget her love. Without complaining, without
uttering a word, she saw her former sweetheart married to another girl, but I watched her gradually
sicken without being able to console her. One day she disappeared, and it was in vain that
I sought everywhere, in vain I made inquiries about her. About six months afterwards I learned
that about that time, after a flood on the lake, there had been found in some rice fields bordering
on the beach at Kalamba, the corpse of a young woman who had been either drowned or murdered,
for she had had, so they said, a knife sticking in her breast. The officials of that town published
the fact in the country round about, but no one came to claim the body, no young woman apparently
had disappeared. From the description they gave me afterward of her dress, her ornaments, the
beauty of her countenance, and her abundant hair, I recognized in her my poor sister.

"Since then I have wandered from province to province. My reputation and my history are in
the mouths of many. They attribute great deeds to me, sometimes calumniating me, but I pay
little attention to men, keeping ever on my way. Such in brief is my story, a story of one
of the judgments of men."

Elias fell silent as he rowed along.

"I still believe that you are not wrong," murmured Crisostomo in a low voice, "when you say
that justice should seek to do good by rewarding virtue and educating the criminals. Only,
it's impossible, Utopian! And where could be secured so much money, so many new employees?"

"For what, then, are the priests who proclaim their mission of peace and charity? Is it more
meritorious to moisten the head of a child with water, to give it salt to eat, than to awake
in the benighted conscience of a criminal that spark which God has granted to every man to
light him to his welfare? Is it more humane to accompany a criminal to the scaffold than to
lead him along the difficult path from vice to virtue? Don't they also pay spies, executioners,
civil-guards? These things, besides being dirty, also cost money."

"My friend, neither you nor I, although we may wish it, can accomplish this."

"Alone, it is true, we are nothing, but take up the cause of the people, unite yourself with
the people, be not heedless of their cries, set an example to the rest, spread the idea of
what is called a fatherland!"

"What the people ask for is impossible. We must wait."

"Wait! To wait means to suffer!"

"If I should ask for it, the powers that be would laugh at me."

"But if the people supported you?"

"Never! I will never be the one to lead the multitude to get by force what the government does
not think proper to grant, no! If I should ever see that multitude armed I would place myself
on the side of the government, for in such a mob I should not see my countrymen. I desire the
country's welfare, therefore I would build a schoolhouse. I seek it by means of instruction,
by progressive advancement; without light there is no road."

"Neither is there liberty without strife!" answered Elias.

"The fact is that I don't want that liberty!"

"The fact is that without liberty there is no light," replied the pilot with warmth. "You say
that you are only slightly acquainted with your country, and I believe you. You don't see the
struggle that is preparing, you don't see the cloud on the horizon. The fight is beginning
in the sphere of ideas, to descend later into the arena, which will be dyed with blood. I hear
the voice of God--woe unto them who would oppose it! For them History has not been written!"

Elias was transfigured; standing uncovered, with his manly face illuminated by the moon, there
was something extraordinary about him. He shook his long hair, and went on:

"Don't you see how everything is awakening? The sleep has lasted for centuries, but one day
the thunderbolt [136] struck, and in striking, infused life. Since then new tendencies are
stirring our spirits, and these tendencies, today scattered, will some day be united, guided
by the God who has not failed other peoples and who will not fail us, for His cause is the
cause of liberty!"

A solemn silence followed these words, while the banka, carried along insensibly by the waves,
neared the shore.

Elias was the first to break the silence. "What shall I tell those who sent me?" he asked with
a change from his former tone.

"I've already told you: I greatly deplore their condition, but they should wait. Evils are
not remedied by other evils, and in our misfortunes each of us has his share of blame."

Elias did not again reply, but dropped his head and rowed along until they reached the shore,
where he took leave of Ibarra: "I thank you, sir, for the condescension you have shown me.
Now, for your own good, I beg of you that in the future you forget me and that you do not recognize
me again, no matter in what situation you may find me."

So saying, he drew away in the banka, rowing toward a thicket on the shore. As he covered the
long distance he remained silent, apparently intent upon nothing but the thousands of phosphorescent
diamonds that the oar caught up and dropped back into the lake, where they disappeared mysteriously
into the blue waves.

When he had reached the shadow of the thicket a man came out of it and approached the banka.
"What shall I tell the capitan?" he asked.

"Tell him that Elias, if he lives, will keep his word," was the sad answer.

"When will you join us, then?"

"When your capitan thinks that the hour of danger has come."

"Very well. Good-by!"

"If I don't die first," added Elias in a low voice.

CHAPTER LI

Exchanges

The bashful Linares was anxious and ill at ease. He had just received from Doña Victorina a
letter which ran thus:

    DEER COZIN within 3 days i expec to here from you if the
    alferes has killed you or you him i dont want anuther day to
    pass befour that broot has his punishment if that tim passes
    an you havent challenjed him ill tel don santiago you was
    never segretary nor joked with canobas nor went on a spree
    with the general don arseño martinez ill tel clarita its all
    a humbug an ill not give you a sent more if you challenje him
    i promis all you want so lets see you challenje him i warn you
    there must be no excuses nor delays yore cozin who loves you

    VICTORINA DE LOS REYES DE DE ESPADAÑA

    sampaloc monday 7 in the evening

The affair was serious. He was well enough acquainted with the character of Doña Victorina
to know what she was capable of. To talk to her of reason was to talk of honesty and courtesy
to a revenue carbineer when he proposes to find contraband where there is none, to plead with
her would be useless, to deceive her worse--there was no way out of the difficulty but to send
the challenge.

"But how? Suppose he receives me with violence?" he soliloquized, as he paced to and fro. "Suppose
I find him with his señora? Who will be willing to be my second? The curate? Capitan Tiago?
Damn the hour in which I listened to her advice! The old toady! To oblige me to get myself
tangled up, to tell lies, to make a blustering fool of myself! What will the young lady say
about me? Now I'm sorry that I've been secretary to all the ministers!"

While the good Linares was in the midst of his soliloquy, Padre Salvi came in. The Franciscan
was even thinner and paler than usual, but his eyes gleamed with a strange light and his lips
wore a peculiar smile.

"Señor Linares, all alone?" was his greeting as he made his way to the sala, through the half-opened
door of which floated the notes from a piano. Linares tried to smile.

"Where is Don Santiago?" continued the curate.

Capitan Tiago at that moment appeared, kissed the curate's hand, and relieved him of his hat
and cane, smiling all the while like one of the blessed.

"Come, come!" exclaimed the curate, entering the sala, followed by Linares and Capitan Tiago,
"I have good news for you all. I've just received letters from Manila which confirm the one
Señor Ibarra brought me yesterday. So, Don Santiago, the objection is removed."

Maria Clara, who was seated at the piano between her two friends, partly rose, but her strength
failed her, and she fell back again. Linares turned pale and looked at Capitan Tiago, who dropped
his eyes.

"That young man seems to me to be very agreeable," continued the curate. "At first I misjudged
him--he's a little quick-tempered--but he knows so well how to atone for his faults afterwards
that one can't hold anything against him. If it were not for Padre Damaso--"

Here the curate shot a quick glance at Maria Clara, who was listening without taking her eyes
off the sheet of music, in spite of the sly pinches of Sinang, who was thus expressing her
joy--had she been alone she would have danced.

"Padre Damaso?" queried Linares.

"Yes, Padre Damaso has said," the curate went on, without taking his gaze from Maria Clara,
"that as--being her sponsor in baptism, he can't permit--but, after all, I believe that if
Señor Ibarra begs his pardon, which I don't doubt he'll do, everything will be settled."

Maria Clara rose, made some excuse, and retired to her chamber, accompanied by Victoria.

"But if Padre Damaso doesn't pardon him?" asked Capitan Tiago in a low voice.

"Then Maria Clara will decide. Padre Damaso is her father--spiritually. But I think they'll
reach an understanding."

At that moment footsteps were heard and Ibarra appeared, followed by Aunt Isabel. His appearance
produced varied impressions. To his affable greeting Capitan Tiago did not know whether to
laugh or to cry. He acknowledged the presence of Linares with a profound bow. Fray Salvi arose
and extended his hand so cordially that the youth could not restrain a look of astonishment.

"Don't be surprised," said Fray Salvi, "for I was just now praising you."

Ibarra thanked him and went up to Sinang, who began with her childish garrulity, "Where have
you been all day? We were all asking, where can that soul redeemed from purgatory have gone?
And we all said the same thing."

"May I know what you said?"

"No, that's a secret, but I'll tell you soon alone. Now tell me where you've been, so we can
see who guessed right."

"No, that's also a secret, but I'll tell you alone, if these gentlemen will excuse us."

"Certainly, certainly, by all means!" exclaimed Padre Salvi.

Rejoicing over the prospect of learning a secret, Sinang led Crisostomo to one end of the sala.

"Tell me, little friend," he asked, "is Maria angry with me?"

"I don't know, but she says that it's better for you to forget her, then she begins to cry.
Capitan Tiago wants her to marry that man. So does Padre Damaso, but she doesn't say either
yes or no. This morning when we were talking about you and I said, 'Suppose he has gone to
make love to some other girl?' she answered, 'Would that he had!' and began to cry."

Ibarra became grave. "Tell Maria that I want to talk with her alone."

"Alone?" asked Sinang, wrinkling her eyebrows and staring at him.

"Entirely alone, no, but not with that fellow present."

"It's rather difficult, but don't worry, I'll tell her."

"When shall I have an answer?"

"Tomorrow come to my house early. Maria doesn't want to be left alone at all, so we stay with
her. Victoria sleeps with her one night and I the other, and tonight it's my turn. But listen,
your secret? Are you going away without telling me?"

"That's right! I was in the town of Los Baños. I'm going to develop some coconut-groves and
I'm thinking of putting up an oil-mill. Your father will be my partner."

"Nothing more than that? What a secret!" exclaimed Sinang aloud, in the tone of a cheated usurer.
"I thought--"

"Be careful! I don't want you to make it known!"

"Nor do I want to do it," replied Sinang, turning up her nose. "If it were something more important,
I would tell my friends. But to buy coconuts! Coconuts! Who's interested in coconuts?" And
with extraordinary haste she ran to join her friends.

A few minutes later Ibarra, seeing that the interest of the party could only languish, took
his leave. Capitan Tiago wore a bitter-sweet look, Linares was silent and watchful, while the
curate with assumed cheerfulness talked of indifferent matters. None of the girls had reappeared.

CHAPTER LII

The Cards of the Dead and the Shadows

The moon was hidden in a cloudy sky while a cold wind, precursor of the approaching December,
swept the dry leaves and dust about in the narrow pathway leading to the cemetery. Three shadowy
forms were conversing in low tones under the arch of the gateway.

"Have you spoken to Elias?" asked a voice.

"No, you know how reserved and circumspect he is. But he ought to be one of us. Don Crisostomo
saved his life."

"That's why I joined," said the first voice. "Don Crisostomo had my wife cured in the house
of a doctor in Manila. I'll look after the convento to settle some old scores with the curate."

"And we'll take care of the barracks to show the civil-guards that our father had sons."

"How many of us will there be?"

"Five, and five will be enough. Don Crisostomo's servant, though, says there'll be twenty of us."

"What if you don't succeed?"

"Hist!" exclaimed one of the shadows, and all fell silent.

In the semi-obscurity a shadowy figure was seen to approach, sneaking along by the fence. From
time to time it stopped as if to look back. Nor was reason for this movement lacking, since
some twenty paces behind it came another figure, larger and apparently darker than the first,
but so lightly did it touch the ground that it vanished as rapidly as though the earth had
swallowed it every time the first shadow paused and turned.

"They're following me," muttered the first figure. "Can it be the civil-guards? Did the senior
sacristan lie?"

"They said that they would meet here," thought the second shadow. "Some mischief must be on
foot when the two brothers conceal it from me."

At length the first shadow reached the gateway of the cemetery. The three who were already
there stepped forward.

"Is that you?"

"Is that you?"

"We must scatter, for they've followed me. Tomorrow you'll get the arms and tomorrow night
is the time. The cry is, 'Viva Don Crisostomo!' Go!"

The three shadows disappeared behind the stone walls. The later arrival hid in the hollow of
the gateway and waited silently. "Let's see who's following me," he thought.

The second shadow came up very cautiously and paused as if to look about him. "I'm late," he
muttered, "but perhaps they will return."

A thin fine rain, which threatened to last, began to fall, so it occurred to him to take refuge
under the gateway. Naturally, he ran against the other.

"Ah! Who are you?" asked the latest arrival in a rough tone.

"Who are you?" returned the other calmly, after which there followed a moment's pause as each
tried to recognize the other's voice and to make out his features.

"What are you waiting here for?" asked he of the rough voice.

"For the clock to strike eight so that I can play cards with the dead. I want to win something
tonight," answered the other in a natural tone. "And you, what have you come for?"

"For--for the same purpose."

"Abá! I'm glad of that, I'll not be alone. I've brought cards. At the first stroke of the bell
I'll make the lay, at the second I'll deal. The cards that move are the cards of the dead and
we'll have to cut for them. Have you brought cards?"

"No."

"Then how--"

"It's simple enough--just as you're going to deal for them, so I expect them to play for me."

"But what if the dead don't play?"

"What can we do? Gambling hasn't yet been made compulsory among the dead."

A short silence ensued.

"Are you armed? How are you going to fight with the dead?"

"With my fists," answered the larger of the two.

"Oh, the devil! Now I remember--the dead won't bet when there's more than one living person,
and there are two of us."

"Is that right? Well, I don't want to leave."

"Nor I. I'm short of money," answered the smaller. "But let's do this: let's play for it, the
one who loses to leave."

"All right," agreed the other, rather ungraciously. "Then let's get inside. Have you any matches?"
They went in to seek in the semi-obscurity for a suitable place and soon found a niche in which
they could sit. The shorter took some cards from his salakot, while the other struck a match,
in the light from which they stared at each other, but, from the expressions on their faces,
apparently without recognition. Nevertheless, we can recognize in the taller and deep-voiced
one Elias and in the shorter one, from the scar on his cheek, Lucas.

"Cut!" called Lucas, still staring at the other. He pushed aside some bones that were in the
niche and dealt an ace and a jack.

Elias lighted match after match. "On the jack!" he said, and to indicate the card placed a
vertebra on top of it.

"Play!" called Lucas, as he dealt an ace with the fourth or fifth card. "You've lost," he added.
"Now leave me alone so that I can try to make a raise."

Elias moved away without a word and was soon swallowed up in the darkness.

Several minutes later the church-clock struck eight and the bell announced the hour of the
souls, but Lucas invited no one to play nor did he call on the dead, as the superstition directs;
instead, he took off his hat and muttered a few prayers, crossing and recrossing himself with
the same fervor with which, at that same moment, the leader of the Brotherhood of the Holy
Rosary was going through a similar performance.

Throughout the night a drizzling rain continued to fall. By nine o'clock the streets were dark
and solitary. The coconut-oil lanterns, which the inhabitants were required to hang out, scarcely
illuminated a small circle around each, seeming to be lighted only to render the darkness more
apparent. Two civil-guards paced back and forth in the street near the church.

"It's cold!" said one in Tagalog with a Visayan accent. "We haven't caught any sacristan, so
there is no one to repair the alferez's chicken-coop. They're all scared out by the death of
that other one. This makes me tired."

"Me, too," answered the other. "No one commits robbery, no one raises a disturbance, but, thank
God, they say that Elias is in town. The alferez says that whoever catches him will be exempt
from floggings for three months."

"Aha! Do you remember his description?" asked the Visayan.

"I should say so! Height: tall, according to the alferez, medium, according to Padre Damaso;
color, brown; eyes, black; nose, ordinary; beard, none; hair, black."

"Aha! But special marks?"

"Black shirt, black pantaloons, wood-cutter."

"Aha, he won't get away from me! I think I see him now."

"I wouldn't mistake him for any one else, even though he might look like him."

Thus the two soldiers continued on their round.

By the light of the lanterns we may again see two shadowy figures moving cautiously along,
one behind the other. An energetic "Quién vive?" stops both, and the first answers, "España!"
in a trembling voice.

The soldiers seize him and hustle him toward a lantern to examine him. It is Lucas, but the
soldiers seem to be in doubt, questioning each other with their eyes.

"The alferez didn't say that he had a scar," whispered the Visayan. "Where you going?"

"To order a mass for tomorrow."

"Haven't you seen Elias?"

"I don't know him, sir," answered Lucas.

"I didn't ask you if you know him, you fool! Neither do we know him. I'm asking you if you've
seen him."

"No, sir."

"Listen, I'll describe him: Height, sometimes tall, sometimes medium; hair and eyes, black;
all the other features, ordinary," recited the Visayan. "Now do you know him?"

"No, sir," replied Lucas stupidly.

"Then get away from here! Brute! Dolt!" And they gave him a shove.

"Do you know why Elias is tall to the alferez and of medium height to the curate?" asked the
Tagalog thoughtfully.

"No," answered the Visayan.

"Because the alferez was down in the mudhole when he saw him and the curate was on foot."

"That's right!" exclaimed the Visayan. "You're talented--blow is it that you're a civil-guard?"

"I wasn't always one; I was a smuggler," answered the Tagalog with a touch of pride.

But another shadowy figure diverted their attention. They challenged this one also and took
the man to the light.

This time it was the real Elias.

"Where you going?"

"To look for a man, sir, who beat and threatened my brother. He has a scar on his face and
is called Elias."

"Aha!" exclaimed the two guards, gazing at each other in astonishment, as they started on the
run toward the church, where Lucas had disappeared a few moments before. The leader of the
Venerable Tertiary Order spoke of lighted candles, of their shape and size, and, although he
could not fix the exact number, had counted more than twenty. Sister Sipa, of the Brotherhood
of the Holy Rosary, could not bear the thought that a member of a rival order should alone
boast of having seen this divine marvel, so she, even though she did not live near the place,
had heard cries and groans, and even thought she recognized by their voices certain persons
with whom she, in other times,--but out of Christian charity she not only forgave them but
prayed for them and would keep their names secret, for all of which she was declared on the
spot to be a saint. Sister Rufa was not so keen of hearing, but she could not suffer that Sister
Sipa had heard so much and she nothing, so she related a dream in which there had appeared
before her many souls--not only of the dead but even of the living--souls in torment who begged
for a part of those indulgences of hers which were so carefully recorded and treasured. She
could furnish names to the families interested and only asked for a few alms to succor the
Pope in his needs. A little fellow, a herder, who dared to assert that he had seen nothing
more than one light and two men in salakots had difficulty in escaping with mere slaps and
scoldings. Vainly he swore to it; there were his carabaos with him and could verify his statement.
"Do you pretend to know more than the Warden and the Sisters, paracmason, [138] heretic?" he
was asked amid angry looks. The curate went up into the pulpit and preached about purgatory
so fervently that the pesos again flowed forth from their hiding-places to pay for masses.

But let us leave the suffering souls and listen to the conversation between Don Filipo and
old Tasio in the lonely home of the latter. The Sage, or Lunatic, was sick, having been for
days unable to leave his bed, prostrated by a malady that was rapidly growing worse.

"Really, I don't know whether to congratulate you or not that your resignation has been accepted.
Formerly, when the gobernadorcillo so shamelessly disregarded the will of the majority, it
was right for you to tender it, but now that you are engaged in a contest with the Civil Guard
it's not quite proper. In time of war you ought to remain at your post."

"Yes, but not when the general sells himself," answered Don Filipo. "You know that on the following
morning the gobernadorcillo liberated the soldiers that I had succeeded in arresting and refused
to take any further action. Without the consent of my superior officer I could do nothing."

"You alone, nothing; but with the rest, much. You should have taken advantage of this opportunity
to set an example to the other towns. Above the ridiculous authority of the gobernadorcillo
are the rights of the people. It was the beginning of a good lesson and you have neglected it."

"But what could I have done against the representative of the interests? Here you have Señor
Ibarra, he has bowed before the beliefs of the crowd. Do you think that he believes in excommunications?"

"You are not in the same fix. Señor Ibarra is trying to sow the good seed, and to do so he
must bend himself and make what use he can of the material at hand. Your mission was to stir
things up, and for that purpose initiative and force are required. Besides, the fight should
not be considered as merely against the gobernadorcillo. The principle ought to be, against
him who makes wrong use of his authority, against him who disturbs the public peace, against
him who fails in his duty. You would not have been alone, for the country is not the same now
that it was twenty years ago."

"Do you think so?" asked Don Filipo.

"Don't you feel it?" rejoined the old man, sitting up in his bed. "Ah, that is because you
haven't seen the past, you haven't studied the effect of European immigration, of the coming
of new books, and of the movement of our youth to Europe. Examine and compare these facts.
It is true that the Royal and Pontifical University of Santo Tomas, with its most sapient faculty,
still exists and that some intelligences are yet exercised in formulating distinctions and
in penetrating the subtleties of scholasticism; but where will you now find the metaphysical
youth of our days, with their archaic education, who tortured their brains and died in full
pursuit of sophistries in some corner of the provinces, without ever having succeeded in understanding
the attributes of being, or solving the problem of essence and existence, those lofty concepts
that made us forget what was essential,--our own existence and our own individuality? Look
at the youth of today! Full of enthusiasm at the view of a wider horizon, they study history,
mathematics, geography, literature, physical sciences, languages--all subjects that in our
times we heard mentioned with horror, as though they were heresies. The greatest free-thinker
of my day declared them inferior to the classifications of Aristotle and the laws of the syllogism.
Man has at last comprehended that he is man; he has given up analyzing his God and searching
into the imperceptible, into what he has not seen; he has given up framing laws for the phantasms
of his brain; he comprehends that his heritage is the vast world, dominion over which is within
his reach; weary of his useless and presumptuous toil, he lowers his head and examines what
surrounds him. See how poets are now springing up among us! The Muses of Nature are gradually
opening up their treasures to us and begin to smile in encouragement on our efforts; the experimental
sciences have already borne their first-fruits; time only is lacking for their development.
The lawyers of today are being trained in the new forms of the philosophy of law, some of them
begin to shine in the midst of the shadows which surround our courts of justice, indicating
a change in the course of affairs. Hear how the youth talk, visit the centers of learning!
Other names resound within the walls of the schools, there where we heard only those of St. Thomas,
Suarez, Amat, Sanchez, [139] and others who were the idols of our times. In vain do the friars
cry out from the pulpits against our demoralization, as the fish-venders cry out against the
cupidity of their customers, disregarding the fact that their wares are stale and unserviceable!
In vain do the conventos extend their ramifications to check the new current. The gods are
going! The roots of the tree may weaken the plants that support themselves under it, but they
cannot take away life from those other beings, which, like birds, are soaring toward the sky."

The Sage spoke with animation, his eyes gleamed.

"Still, the new seed is small," objected Don Filipo incredulously. "If all enter upon the progress
we purchase so dearly, it may be stifled."

"Stifled! Who will stifle it? Man, that weak dwarf, stifle progress, the powerful child of
time and action? When has he been able to do so? Bigotry, the gibbet, the stake, by endeavoring
to stifle it, have hurried it along. E pur si muove, [140] said Galileo, when the Dominicans
forced him to declare that the earth does not move, and the same statement might be applied
to human progress. Some wills are broken down, some individuals sacrificed, but that is of
little import; progress continues on its way, and from the blood of those who fall new and
vigorous offspring is born. See, the press itself, however backward it may wish to be, is taking
a step forward. The Dominicans themselves do not escape the operation of this law, but are
imitating the Jesuits, their irreconcilable enemies. They hold fiestas in their cloisters,
they erect little theaters, they compose poems, because, as they are not devoid of intelligence
in spite of believing in the fifteenth century, they realize that the Jesuits are right, and
they will still take part in the future of the younger peoples that they have reared."

"So, according to you, the Jesuits keep up with progress?" asked Don Filipo in wonder. "Why,
then, are they opposed in Europe?"

"I will answer you like an old scholastic," replied the Sage, lying down again and resuming
his jesting expression. "There are three ways in which one may accompany the course of progress:
in front of, beside, or behind it. The first guide it, the second suffer themselves to be carried
along with it, and the last are dragged after it and to these last the Jesuits belong. They
would like to direct it, but as they see that it is strong and has other tendencies, they capitulate,
preferring to follow rather than to be crushed or left alone among the shadows by the wayside.
Well now, we in the Philippines are moving along at least three centuries behind the car of
progress; we are barely beginning to emerge from the Middle Ages. Hence the Jesuits, who are
reactionary in Europe, when seen from our point of view, represent progress. To them the Philippines
owes her dawning system of instruction in the natural sciences, the soul of the nineteenth
century, as she owed to the Dominicans scholasticism, already dead in spite of Leo XIII, for
there is no Pope who can revive what common sense has judged and condemned.

"But where are we getting to?" he asked with a change of tone. "Ah, we were speaking of the
present condition of the Philippines. Yes, we are now entering upon a period of strife, or
rather, I should say that you are, for my generation belongs to the night, we are passing away.
This strife is between the past, which seizes and strives with curses to cling to the tottering
feudal castle, and the future, whose song of triumph may be heard from afar amid the splendors
of the coming dawn, bringing the message of Good-News from other lands. Who will fall and be
buried in the moldering ruins?"

The old man paused. Noticing that Don Filipo was gazing at him thoughtfully, he said with a
smile, "I can almost guess what you are thinking."

"Really?"

"You are thinking of how easily I may be mistaken," was the answer with a sad smile. "Today
I am feverish, and I am not infallible: homo sum et nihil humani a me alienum puto, [141] said
Terence, and if at any time one is allowed to dream, why not dream pleasantly in the last hours
of life? And after all, I have lived only in dreams! You are right, it is a dream! Our youths
think only of love affairs and dissipations; they expend more time and work harder to deceive
and dishonor a maiden than in thinking about the welfare of their country; our women, in order
to care for the house and family of God, neglect their own: our men are active only in vice
and heroic only in shame; childhood develops amid ignorance and routine, youth lives its best
years without ideals, and a sterile manhood serves only as an example for corrupting youth.
Gladly do I die! Claudite iam rivos, pueri!" [142]

"Don't you want some medicine?" asked Don Filipo in order to change the course of the conversation,
which had darkened the old man's face.

"The dying need no medicines; you who remain need them. Tell Don Crisostomo to come and see
me tomorrow, for I have some important things to say to him. In a few days I am going away.
The Philippines is in darkness!"

After a few moments more of talk, Don Filipo left the sick man's house, grave and thoughtful.

CHAPTER LIV

Revelations

									Quidquid latet, adparebit, 									Nil inultum remanebit. [143]

The vesper bells are ringing, and at the holy sound all pause, drop their tasks, and uncover.
The laborer returning from the fields ceases the song with which he was pacing his carabao
and murmurs a prayer, the women in the street cross themselves and move their lips affectedly
so that none may doubt their piety, a man stops caressing his game-cock and recites the angelus
to bring better luck, while inside the houses they pray aloud. Every sound but that of the
Ave Maria dies away, becomes hushed.

Nevertheless, the curate, without his hat, rushes across the street, to the scandalizing of
many old women, and, greater scandal still, directs his steps toward the house of the alferez.
The devout women then think it time to cease the movement of their lips in order to kiss the
curate's hand, but Padre Salvi takes no notice of them. This evening he finds no pleasure in
placing his bony hand on his Christian nose that he may slip it down dissemblingly (as Doña
Consolacion has observed) over the bosom of the attractive young woman who may have bent over
to receive his blessing. Some important matter must be engaging his attention when he thus
forgets his own interests and those of the Church!

In fact, he rushes headlong up the stairway and knocks impatiently at the alferez's door. The
latter puts in his appearance, scowling, followed by his better half, who smiles like one of
the damned.

"Ah, Padre, I was just going over to see you. That old goat of yours--"

"I have a very important matter--"

"I can't stand for his running about and breaking down the fence. I'll shoot him if he comes back!"

"That is, if you are alive tomorrow!" exclaimed the panting curate as he made his way toward
the sala.

"What, do you think that puny doll will kill me? I'll bust him with a kick!"

Padre Salvi stepped backward with an involuntary glance toward the alferez's feet. "Whom are
you talking about?" he asked tremblingly.

"About whom would I talk but that simpleton who has challenged me to a duel with revolvers
at a hundred paces?"

"Ah!" sighed the curate, then he added, "I've come to talk to you about a very urgent matter."

"Enough of urgent matters! It'll be like that affair of the two boys."

Had the light been other than from coconut oil and the lamp globe not so dirty, the alferez
would have noticed the curate's pallor.

"Now this is a serious matter, which concerns the lives of all of us," declared Padre Salvi
in a low voice.

"A serious matter?" echoed the alferez, turning pale. "Can that boy shoot straight?"

"I'm not talking about him."

"Then, what?"

The friar made a sign toward the door, which the alferez closed in his own way--with a kick,
for he had found his hands superfluous and had lost nothing by ceasing to be bimanous.

A curse and a roar sounded outside. "Brute, you've split my forehead open!" yelled his wife.

"Now, unburden yourself," he said calmly to the curate.

The latter stared at him for a space, then asked in the nasal, droning voice of the preacher,
"Didn't you see me come--running?"

"Sure! I thought you'd lost something."

"Well, now," continued the curate, without heeding the alferez's rudeness, "when I fail thus
in my duty, it's because there are grave reasons."

"Well, what else?" asked the other, tapping the floor with his foot.

"Be calm!"

"Then why did you come in such a hurry?"

The curate drew nearer to him and asked mysteriously, "Haven't--you--heard--anything?"

The alferez shrugged his shoulders.

"You admit that you know absolutely nothing?"

"Do you want to talk about Elias, who put away your senior sacristan last night?" was the retort.

"No, I'm not talking about those matters," answered the curate ill-naturedly. "I'm talking
about a great danger."

"Well, damn it, out with it!"

"Come," said the friar slowly and disdainfully, "you see once more how important we ecclesiastics
are. The meanest lay brother is worth as much as a regiment, while a curate--"

Then he added in a low and mysterious tone, "I've discovered a big conspiracy!"

The alferez started up and gazed in astonishment at the friar.

"A terrible and well-organized plot, which will be carried out this very night."

"This very night!" exclaimed the alferez, pushing the curate aside and running to his revolver
and sword hanging on the wall.

"Who'll I arrest? Who'll I arrest?" he cried.

"Calm yourself! There is still time, thanks to the promptness with which I have acted. We have
till eight o'clock."

"I'll shoot all of them!"

"Listen! This afternoon a woman whose name I can't reveal (it's a secret of the confessional)
came to me and told everything. At eight o'clock they will seize the barracks by surprise,
plunder the convento, capture the police boat, and murder all of us Spaniards."

The alferez was stupefied.

"The woman did not tell me any more than this," added the curate.

"She didn't tell any more? Then I'll arrest her!"

"I can't consent to that. The bar of penitence is the throne of the God of mercies."

"There's neither God nor mercies that amount to anything! I'll arrest her!"

"You're losing your head! What you must do is to get yourself ready. Muster your soldiers quietly
and put them in ambush, send me four guards for the convento, and notify the men in charge
of the boat."

"The boat isn't here. I'll ask for help from the other sections."

"No, for then the plotters would be warned and would not carry out their plans. What we must
do is to catch them alive and make them talk--I mean, you'll make them talk, since I, as a
priest, must not meddle in such matters. Listen, here's where you win crosses and stars. I
ask only that you make due acknowledgment that it was I who warned you."

"It'll be acknowledged, Padre, it'll be acknowledged--and perhaps you'll get a miter!" answered
the glowing alferez, glancing at the cuffs of his uniform.

"So, you send me four guards in plain clothes, eh? Be discreet, and tonight at eight o'clock
it'll rain stars and crosses."

While all this was taking place, a man ran along the road leading to Ibarra's house and rushed
up the stairway.

"Is your master here?" the voice of Elias called to a servant.

"He's in his study at work."

Ibarra, to divert the impatience that he felt while waiting for the time when he could make
his explanations to Maria Clara, had set himself to work in his laboratory.

"Ah, that you, Elias?" he exclaimed. "I was thinking about you. Yesterday I forgot to ask you
the name of that Spaniard in whose house your grandfather lived."

"Let's not talk about me, sir--"

"Look," continued Ibarra, not noticing the youth's agitation, while he placed a piece of bamboo
over a flame, "I've made a great discovery. This bamboo is incombustible."

"It's not a question of bamboo now, sir, it's a question of your collecting your papers and
fleeing at this very moment."

Ibarra glanced at him in surprise and, on seeing the gravity of his countenance, dropped the
object that he held in his hands.

"Burn everything that may compromise you and within an hour put yourself in a place of safety."

"Why?" Ibarra was at length able to ask.

"Put all your valuables in a safe place--"

"Why?"

"Burn every letter written by you or to you--the most innocent thing may be wrongly construed--"

"But why all this?"

"Why! Because I've just discovered a plot that is to be attributed to you in order to ruin you."

"A plot? Who is forming it?"

"I haven't been able to discover the author of it, but just a moment ago I talked with one
of the poor dupes who are paid to carry it out, and I wasn't able to dissuade him."

"But he--didn't he tell you who is paying him?"

"Yes! Under a pledge of secrecy he said that it was you."

"My God!" exclaimed the terrified Ibarra.

"There's no doubt of it, sir. Don't lose any time, for the plot will probably be carried out
this very night."

Ibarra, with his hands on his head and his eyes staring unnaturally, seemed not to hear him.

"The blow cannot be averted," continued Elias. "I've come late, I don't know who the leaders
are. Save yourself, sir, save yourself for your country's sake!"

"Whither shall I flee? She expects me tonight!" exclaimed Ibarra, thinking of Maria Clara.

"To any town whatsoever, to Manila, to the house of some official, but anywhere so that they
may not say that you are directing this movement."

"Suppose that I myself report the plot?"

"You an informer!" exclaimed Elias, stepping back and staring at him. "You would appear as
a traitor and coward in the eyes of the plotters and faint-hearted in the eyes of others. They
would say that you planned the whole thing to curry favor. They would say--"

"But what's to be done?"

"I've already told you. Destroy every document that relates to your affairs, flee, and await
the outcome."

"And Maria Clara?" exclaimed the young man. "No, I'll die first!"

Elias wrung his hands, saying, "Well then, at least parry the blow. Prepare for the time when
they accuse you."

Ibarra gazed about him in bewilderment. "Then help me. There in that writing-desk are all the
letters of my family. Select those of my father, which are perhaps the ones that may compromise
me. Read the signatures."

So the bewildered and stupefied young man opened and shut boxes, collected papers, read letters
hurriedly, tearing up some and laying others aside. He took down some books and began to turn
their leaves.

Elias did the same, if not so excitedly, yet with equal eagerness. But suddenly he paused,
his eyes bulged, he turned the paper in his hand over and over, then asked in a trembling voice:

"Was your family acquainted with Don Pedro Eibarramendia?"

"I should say so!" answered Ibarra, as he opened a chest and took out a bundle of papers. "He
was my great-grandfather."

"Your great-grandfather Don Pedro Eibarramendia?" again asked Elias with changed and livid
features.

"Yes," replied Ibarra absently, "we shortened the surname; it was too long."

"Was he a Basque?" demanded Elias, approaching him.

"Yes, a Basque--but what's the matter?" asked Ibarra in surprise.

Clenching his fists and pressing them to his forehead, Elias glared at Crisostomo, who recoiled
when he saw the expression on the other's face. "Do you know who Don Pedro Eibarramendia was?"
he asked between his teeth. "Don Pedro Eibarramendia was the villain who falsely accused my
grandfather and caused all our misfortunes. I have sought for that name and God has revealed
it to me! Render me now an accounting for our misfortunes!"

Elias caught and shook the arm of Crisostomo, who gazed at him in terror. In a voice that was
bitter and trembling with hate, he said, "Look at me well, look at one who has suffered and
you live, you live, you have wealth, a home, reputation--you live, you live!"

Beside himself, he ran to a small collection of arms and snatched up a dagger. But scarcely
had he done so when he let it fall again and stared like a madman at the motionless Ibarra.

"What was I about to do?" he muttered, fleeing from the house.

CHAPTER LV

The Catastrophe

There in the dining-room Capitan Tiago, Linares, and Aunt Isabel were at supper, so that even
in the sala the rattling of plates and dishes was plainly heard. Maria Clara had said that
she was not hungry and had seated herself at the piano in company with the merry Sinang, who
was murmuring mysterious words into her ear. Meanwhile Padre Salvi paced nervously back and
forth in the room.

It was not, indeed, that the convalescent was not hungry, no; but she was expecting the arrival
of a certain person and was taking advantage of this moment when her Argus was not present,
Linares' supper-hour.

"You'll see how that specter will stay till eight," murmured Sinang, indicating the curate.
"And at eight he will come. The curate's in love with Linares."

Maria Clara gazed in consternation at her friend, who went on heedlessly with her terrible
chatter: "Oh, I know why he doesn't go, in spite of my hints--he doesn't want to burn up oil
in the convento! Don't you know that since you've been sick the two lamps that he used to keep
lighted he has had put out? But look how he stares, and what a face!"

At that moment a clock in the house struck eight. The curate shuddered and sat down in a corner.

"Here he comes!" exclaimed Sinang, pinching Maria Clara. "Don't you hear him?"

The church bell boomed out the hour of eight and all rose to pray. Padre Salvi offered up a
prayer in a weak and trembling voice, but as each was busy with his own thoughts no one paid
any attention to the priest's agitation.

Scarcely had the prayer ceased when Ibarra appeared. The youth was in mourning not only in
his attire but also in his face, to such an extent that, on seeing him, Maria Clara arose and
took a step toward him to ask what the matter was. But at that instant the report of firearms
was heard. Ibarra stopped, his eyes rolled, he lost the power of speech. The curate had concealed
himself behind a post. More shots, more reports were heard from the direction of the convento,
followed by cries and the sound of persons running. Capitan Tiago, Aunt Isabel, and Linares
rushed in pell-mell, crying, "Tulisan! Tulisan!" Andeng followed, flourishing the gridiron
as she ran toward her foster-sister.

Aunt Isabel fell on her knees weeping and reciting the Kyrie eleyson; Capitan Tiago, pale and
trembling, carried on his fork a chicken-liver which he offered tearfully to the Virgin of
Antipolo; Linares with his mouth full of food was armed with a case-knife; Sinang and Maria
Clara were in each other's arms; while the only one that remained motionless, as if petrified,
was Crisostomo, whose paleness was indescribable.

The cries and sound of blows continued, windows were closed noisily, the report of a gun was
heard from time to time.

"Christie eleyson! Santiago, let the prophecy be fulfilled! Shut the windows!" groaned Aunt Isabel.

"Fifty big bombs and two thanksgiving masses!" responded Capitan Tiago. "Ora pro nobis!"

Gradually there prevailed a heavy silence which was soon broken by the voice of the alferez,
calling as he ran: "Padre, Padre Salvi, come here!"

"Miserere! The alferez is calling for confession," cried Aunt Isabel. "The alferez is wounded?"
asked Linares hastily. "Ah!!!" Only then did he notice that he had not yet swallowed what he
had in his mouth.

"Padre, come here! There's nothing more to fear!" the alferez continued to call out.

The pallid Fray Salvi at last concluded to venture out from his hiding-place, and went down
the stairs.

"The outlaws have killed the alferez! Maria, Sinang, go into your room and fasten the door!
Kyrie eleyson!"

Ibarra also turned toward the stairway, in spite of Aunt Isabel's cries: "Don't go out, you
haven't been shriven, don't go out!" The good old lady had been a particular friend of his
mother's.

But Ibarra left the house. Everything seemed to reel around him, the ground was unstable. His
ears buzzed, his legs moved heavily and irregularly. Waves of blood, lights and shadows chased
one another before his eyes, and in spite of the bright moonlight he stumbled over the stones
and blocks of wood in the vacant and deserted street.

Near the barracks he saw soldiers, with bayonets fixed, who were talking among themselves so
excitedly that he passed them unnoticed. In the town hall were to be heard blows, cries, and
curses, with the voice of the alferez dominating everything: "To the stocks! Handcuff them!
Shoot any one who moves! Sergeant, mount the guard! Today no one shall walk about, not even
God! Captain, this is no time to go to sleep!"

Ibarra hastened his steps toward home, where his servants were anxiously awaiting him. "Saddle
the best horse and go to bed!" he ordered them.

Going into his study, he hastily packed a traveling-bag, opened an iron safe, took out what
money he found there and put it into some sacks. Then he collected his jewels, took clown a
portrait of Maria Clara, armed himself with a dagger and two revolvers, and turned toward a
closet where he kept his instruments.

At that moment three heavy knocks sounded on the door. "Who's there?" asked Ibarra in a gloomy
tone.

"Open, in the King's name, open at once, or we'll break the door down," answered an imperious
voice in Spanish.

Ibarra looked toward the window, his eyes gleamed, and he cocked his revolver. Then changing
his mind, he put the weapons down and went to open the door just as the servant appeared. Three
guards instantly seized him.

"Consider yourself a prisoner in the King's name," said the sergeant.

"For what?"

"They'll tell you over there. We're forbidden to say." The youth reflected a moment and then,
perhaps not wishing that the soldiers should discover his preparations for flight, picked up
his hat, saying, "I'm at your service. I suppose that it will only be for a few hours."

"If you promise not to try to escape, we won't tie you the alferez grants this favor--but if
you run--"

Ibarra went with them, leaving his servants in consternation.

Meanwhile, what had become of Elias? Leaving the house of Crisostomo, he had run like one crazed,
without heeding where he was going. He crossed the fields in violent agitation, he reached
the woods; he fled from the town, from the light--even the moon so troubled him that he plunged
into the mysterious shadows of the trees. There, sometimes pausing, sometimes moving along
unfrequented paths, supporting himself on the hoary trunks or being entangled in the undergrowth,
he gazed toward the town, which, bathed in the light of the moon, spread out before him on
the plain along the shore of the lake. Birds awakened from their sleep flew about, huge bats
and owls moved from branch to branch with strident cries and gazed at him with their round
eyes, but Elias neither heard nor heeded them. In his fancy he was followed by the offended
shades of his family, he saw on every branch the gruesome basket containing Balat's gory head,
as his father had described it to him; at every tree he seemed to stumble over the corpse of
his grandmother; he imagined that he saw the rotting skeleton of his dishonored grandfather
swinging among the shadows--and the skeleton and the corpse and the gory head cried after him,
"Coward! Coward!"

Leaving the hill, Elias descended to the lake and ran along the shore excitedly. There at a
distance in the midst of the waters, where the moonlight seemed to form a cloud, he thought
he could see a specter rise and soar the shade of his sister with her breast bloody and her
loose hair streaming about. He fell to his knees on the sand and extending his arms cried out,
"You, too!"

Then with his gaze fixed on the cloud he arose slowly and went forward into the water as if
he were following some one. He passed over the gentle slope that forms the bar and was soon
far from the shore. The water rose to his waist, but he plunged on like one fascinated, following,
ever following, the ghostly charmer. Now the water covered his chest--a volley of rifle-shots
sounded, the vision disappeared, the youth returned to his senses. In the stillness of the
night and the greater density of the air the reports reached him clearly and distinctly. He
stopped to reflect and found himself in the water--over the peaceful ripples of the lake he
could still make out the lights in the fishermen's huts.

He returned to the shore and started toward the town, but for what purpose he himself knew
not. The streets appeared to be deserted, the houses were closed, and even the dogs that were
wont to bark through the night had hidden themselves in fear. The silvery light of the moon
added to the sadness and loneliness.

Fearful of meeting the civil-guards, he made his way along through yards and gardens, in one
of which he thought he could discern two human figures, but he kept on his way, leaping over
fences and walls, until after great labor he reached the other end of the town and went toward
Crisostomo's house. In the doorway were the servants, lamenting their master's arrest.

After learning about what had occurred Elias pretended to go away, but really went around behind
the house, jumped over the wall, and crawled through a window into the study where the candle
that Ibarra had lighted was still burning. He saw the books and papers and found the arms,
the jewels, and the sacks of money. Reconstructing in his imagination the scene that had taken
place there and seeing so many papers that might be of a compromising nature, he decided to
gather them up, throw them from the window, and bury them.

But, on glancing toward the street, he saw two guards approaching, their bayonets and caps
gleaming in the moonlight. With them was the directorcillo. He made a sudden resolution: throwing
the papers and some clothing into a heap in the center of the room, he poured over them the
oil from a lamp and set fire to the whole. He was hurriedly placing the arms in his belt when
he caught sight of the portrait of Maria Clara and hesitated a moment, then thrust it into
one of the sacks and with them in his hands leaped from the window into the garden.

It was time that he did so, too, for the guards were forcing an entrance. "Let us in to get
your master's papers!" cried the directorcillo.

"Have you permission? If you haven't, you won't get in,'" answered an old man.

But the soldiers pushed him aside with the butts of their rifles and ran up the stairway, just
as a thick cloud of smoke rolled through the house and long tongues of flame shot out from
the study, enveloping the doors and windows.

"Fire! Fire!" was the cry, as each rushed to save what he could. But the blaze had reached
the little laboratory and caught the inflammable materials there, so the guards had to retire.
The flames roared about, licking up everything in their way and cutting off the passages. Vainly
was water brought from the well and cries for help raised, for the house was set apart from
the rest. The fire swept through all the rooms and sent toward the sky thick spirals of smoke.
Soon the whole structure was at the mercy of the flames, fanned now by the wind, which in the
heat grew stronger. Some few rustics came up, but only to gaze on this great bonfire, the end
of that old building which had been so long respected by the elements.

CHAPTER LVI

Rumors and Beliefs

Day dawned at last for the terrified town. The streets near the barracks and the town hail
were still deserted and solitary, the houses showed no signs of life. Nevertheless, the wooden
panel of a window was pushed back noisily and a child's head was stretched out and turned from
side to side, gazing about in all directions. At once, however, a smack indicated the contact
of tanned hide with the soft human article, so the child made a wry face, closed its eyes,
and disappeared. The window slammed shut.

But an example had been set. That opening and shutting of the window had no doubt been heard
on all sides, for soon another window opened slowly and there appeared cautiously the head
of a wrinkled and toothless old woman: it was the same Sister Puté who had raised such a disturbance
while Padre Damaso was preaching. Children and old women are the representatives of curiosity
in this world: the former from a wish to know things and the latter from a desire to recollect
them.

Apparently there was no one to apply a slipper to Sister Puté, for she remained gazing out
into the distance with wrinkled eyebrows. Then she rinsed out her mouth, spat noisily, and
crossed herself. In the house opposite, another window was now timidly opened to reveal Sister
Rufa, she who did not wish to cheat or be cheated. They stared at each other for a moment,
smiled, made some signs, and again crossed themselves.

"Jesús, it seemed like a thanksgiving mass, regular fireworks!" commented Sister Rufa.

"Since the town was sacked by Balat, I've never seen another night equal to it," responded
Sister Puté.

"What a lot of shots! They say that it was old Pablo's band."

"Tulisanes? That can't be! They say that it was the cuadrilleros against the civil-guards.
That's why Don Filipo has been arrested."

"Sanctus Deus! They say that at least fourteen were killed."

Other windows were now opened and more faces appeared to exchange greetings and make comments.
In the clear light, which promised a bright day, soldiers could be seen in the distance, coming
and going confusedly like gray silhouettes.

"There goes one more corpse!" was the exclamation from a window.

"One? I see two."

"And I--but really, can it be you don't know what it was?" asked a sly-featured individual.

"Oh, the cuadrilleros!"

"No, sir, it was a mutiny in the barracks!"

"What kind of mutiny? The curate against the alferez?"

"No, it was nothing of the kind," answered the man who had asked the first question. "It was
the Chinamen who have rebelled." With this he shut his window.

"The Chinamen!" echoed all in great astonishment. "That's why not one of them is to be seen!"
"They've probably killed them all!"

"I thought they were going to do something bad. Yesterday--"

"I saw it myself. Last night--"

"What a pity!" exclaimed Sister Rufa. "To get killed just before Christmas when they bring
around their presents! They should have waited until New Year's."

Little by little the street awoke to life. Dogs, chickens, pigs, and doves began the movement,
and these animals were soon followed by some ragged urchins who held fast to each other's arms
as they timidly approached the barracks. Then a few old women with handkerchiefs tied about
their heads and fastened under their chins appeared with thick rosaries in their hands, pretending
to be at their prayers so that the soldiers would let them pass. When it was seen that one
might walk about without being shot at, the men began to come out with assumed airs of indifference.
First they limited their steps to the neighborhood of their houses, caressing their game-cocks,
then they extended their stroll, stopping from time to time, until at last they stood in front
of the town hall.

In a quarter of an hour other versions of the affair were in circulation. Ibarra with his servants
had tried to kidnap Maria Clara, and Capitan Tiago had defended her, aided by the Civil Guard.
The number of killed was now not fourteen but thirty. Capitan Tiago was wounded and would leave
that very day with his family for Manila.

The arrival of two cuadrilleros carrying a human form on a covered stretcher and followed by
a civil-guard produced a great sensation. It was conjectured that they came from the convento,
and, from the shape of the feet, which were dangling over one end, some guessed who the dead
man might be, some one else a little distance away told who it was; further on the corpse was
multiplied and the mystery of the Holy Trinity duplicated, later the miracle of the loaves
and fishes was repeated--and the dead were then thirty and eight.

By half-past seven, when other guards arrived from neighboring towns, the current version was
clear and detailed. "I've just come from the town hall, where I've seen Don Filipo and Don
Crisostomo prisoners," a man told Sister Puté. "I've talked with one of the cuadrilleros who
are on guard. Well, Bruno, the son of that fellow who was flogged to death, confessed everything
last night. As you know, Capitan Tiago is going to marry his daughter to the young Spaniard,
so Don Crisostomo in his rage wanted to get revenge and tried to kill all the Spaniards, even
the curate. Last night they attacked the barracks and the convento, but fortunately, by God's
mercy, the curate was in Capitan Tiago's house. They say that a lot of them escaped. The civil-guards
burned Don Crisostomo's house down, and if they hadn't arrested him first they would have burned
him also."

"They burned the house down?"

"All the servants are under arrest. Look, you can still see the smoke from here!" answered
the narrator, approaching the window. "Those who come from there tell of many sad things."

All looked toward the place indicated. A thin column of smoke was still slowly rising toward
the sky. All made comments, more or less pitying, more or less accusing.

"Poor youth!" exclaimed an old man, Puté's husband.

"Yes," she answered, "but look how he didn't order a mass said for the soul of his father,
who undoubtedly needs it more than others."

"But, woman, haven't you any pity?"

"Pity for the excommunicated? It's a sin to take pity on the enemies of God, the curates say.
Don't you remember? In the cemetery he walked about as if he was in a corral."

"But a corral and the cemetery are alike," replied the old man, "only that into the former
only one kind of animal enters."

"Shut up!" cried Sister Puté. "You'll still defend those whom God has clearly punished. You'll
see how they'll arrest you, too. You're upholding a falling house."

Her husband became silent before this argument.

"Yes," continued the old lady, "after striking Padre Damaso there wasn't anything left for
him to do but to kill Padre Salvi."

"But you can't deny that he was good when he was a little boy."

"Yes, he was good," replied the old woman, "but he went to Spain. All those that go to Spain
become heretics, as the curates have said."

"Oho!" exclaimed her husband, seeing his chance for a retort, "and the curate, and all the
curates, and the Archbishop, and the Pope, and the Virgin--aren't they from Spain? Are they
also heretics? Abá!"

Happily for Sister Puté the arrival of a maidservant running, all pale and terrified, cut short
this discussion.

"A man hanged in the next garden!" she cried breathlessly.

"A man hanged?" exclaimed all in stupefaction. The women crossed themselves. No one could move
from his place.

"Yes, sir," went on the trembling servant; "I was going to pick peas--I looked into our neighbor's
garden to see if it was--I saw a man swinging--I thought it was Teo, the servant who always
gives me--I went nearer to--pick the peas, and I saw that it wasn't Teo, but a dead man. I
ran and I ran and--"

"Let's go see him," said the old man, rising. "Show us the way."

"Don't you go!" cried Sister Puté, catching hold of his camisa. "Something will happen to you!
Is he hanged? Then the worse for him!"

"Let me see him, woman. You, Juan, go to the barracks and report it. Perhaps he's not dead yet."

So he proceeded to the garden with the servant, who kept behind him. The women, including even
Sister Puté herself, followed after, filled with fear and curiosity.

"There he is, sir," said the servant, as she stopped and pointed with her finger.

The committee paused at a respectful distance and allowed the old man to go forward alone.

A human body hanging from the branch of a santol tree swung about gently in the breeze. The
old man stared at it for a time and saw that the legs and arms were stiff, the clothing soiled,
and the head doubled over.

"We mustn't touch him until some officer of the law arrives," he said aloud. "He's already
stiff, he's been dead for some time."

The women gradually moved closer.

"He's the fellow who lived in that little house there. He came here two weeks ago. Look at
the scar on his face."

"Ave Maria!" exclaimed some of the women.

"Shall we pray for his soul?" asked a young woman, after she had finished staring and examining
the body.

"Fool, heretic!" scolded Sister Puté. "Don't you know what Padre Damaso said? It's tempting
God to pray for one of the damned. Whoever commits suicide is irrevocably damned and therefore
he isn't buried in holy ground."

Then she added, "I knew that this man was coming to a bad end; I never could find out how he
lived."

"I saw him twice talking with the senior sacristan," observed a young woman.

"It wouldn't be to confess himself or to order a mass!"

Other neighbors came up until a large group surrounded the corpse, which was still swinging
about. After half an hour, an alguazil and the directorcillo arrived with two cuadrilleros,
who took the body down and placed it on a stretcher.

"People are getting in a hurry to die," remarked the directorcillo with a smile, as he took
a pen from behind his ear.

He made captious inquiries, and took down the statement of the maidservant, whom he tried to
confuse, now looking at her fiercely, now threatening her, now attributing to her things that
she had not said, so much so that she, thinking that she would have to go to jail, began to
cry and wound up by declaring that she wasn't looking for peas but and she called Teo as a witness.

While this was taking place, a rustic in a wide salakot with a big bandage on his neck was
examining the corpse and the rope. The face was not more livid than the rest of the body, two
scratches and two red spots were to be seen above the noose, the strands of the rope were white
and had no blood on them. The curious rustic carefully examined the camisa and pantaloons,
and noticed that they were very dusty and freshly torn in some parts. But what most caught
his attention were the seeds of amores-secos that were sticking on the camisa even up to the
collar.

"What are you looking at?" the directorcillo asked him. "I was looking, sir, to see if I could
recognize him," stammered the rustic, partly uncovering, but in such a way that his salakot
fell lower.

"But haven't you heard that it's a certain Lucas? Were you asleep?"

The crowd laughed, while the abashed rustic muttered a few words and moved away slowly with
his head down.

"Here, where you going?" cried the old man after him.

"That's not the way out. That's the way to the dead man's house."

"The fellow's still asleep," remarked the directorcillo facetiously. "Better pour some water
over him."

Amid the laughter of the bystanders the rustic left the place where he had played such a ridiculous
part and went toward the church. In the sacristy he asked for the senior sacristan.

"He's still asleep," was the rough answer. "Don't you know that the convento was assaulted
last night?"

"Then I'll wait till he wakes up." This with a stupid stare at the sacristans, such as is common
to persons who are used to rough treatment.

In a corner which was still in shadow the one-eyed senior sacristan lay asleep in a big chair.
His spectacles were placed on his forehead amid long locks of hair, while his thin, squalid
chest, which was bare, rose and fell regularly.

The rustic took a seat near by, as if to wait patiently, but he dropped a piece of money and
started to look for it with the aid of a candle under the senior sacristan's chair. He noticed
seeds of amores-secos on the pantaloons and on the cuffs of the sleeper's camisa. The latter
awoke, rubbed his one good eye, and began to scold the rustic with great ill-humor.

"I wanted to order a mass, sir," was the reply in a tone of excuse.

"The masses are already over," said the sacristan, sweetening his tone a little at this. "If
you want it for tomorrow--is it for the souls in purgatory?"

"No, sir," answered the rustic, handing him a peso.

Then gazing fixedly at the single eye, he added, "It's for a person who's going to die soon."

Hereupon he left the sacristy. "I could have caught him last night!" he sighed, as he took
off the bandage and stood erect to recover the face and form of Elias.

CHAPTER LVII

Vae Victis!

                                                Mi gozo en un pozo.

Guards with forbidding mien paced to and fro in front of the door of the town hall, threatening
with their rifle-butts the bold urchins who rose on tiptoe or climbed up on one another to
see through the bars.

The hall itself did not present that agreeable aspect it wore when the program of the fiesta
was under discussion--now it was gloomy and rather ominous. The civil-guards and cuadrilleros
who occupied it scarcely spoke and then with few words in low tones. At the table the directorcillo,
two clerks, and several soldiers were rustling papers, while the alferez strode from one side
to the other, at times gazing fiercely toward the door: prouder Themistocles could not have
appeared in the Olympic games after the battle of Salamis. Doña Consolacion yawned in a corner,
exhibiting a dirty mouth and jagged teeth, while she fixed her cold, sinister gaze on the door
of the jail, which was covered with indecent drawings. She had succeeded in persuading her
husband, whose victory had made him amiable, to let her witness the inquiry and perhaps the
accompanying tortures. The hyena smelt the carrion and licked herself, wearied by the delay.

The gobernadorcillo was very compunctious. His seat, that large chair placed under his Majesty's
portrait, was vacant, being apparently intended for some one else. About nine o'clock the curate
arrived, pale and scowling.

"Well, you haven't kept yourself waiting!" the alferez greeted him.

"I should prefer not to be present," replied Padre Salvi in a low voice, paying no heed to
the bitter tone of the alferez. "I'm very nervous."

"As no one else has come to fill the place, I judged that your presence--You know that they
leave this afternoon."

"Young Ibarra and the teniente-mayor?"

The alferez pointed toward the jail. "There are eight there," he said. "Bruno died at midnight,
but his statement is on record."

The curate saluted Doña Consolacion, who responded with a yawn, and took his seat in the big
chair under his Majesty's portrait. "Let us begin," he announced.

"Bring out those two who are in the stocks," ordered the alferez in a tone that he tried to
make as terrible as possible. Then turning to the curate he added with a change of tone, "They
are fastened in by skipping two holes."

For the benefit of those who are not informed about these instruments of torture, we will say
that the stocks are one of the most harmless. The holes in which the offender's legs are placed
are a little more or less than a foot apart; by skipping two holes, the prisoner finds himself
in a rather forced position with peculiar inconvenience to his ankles and a distance of about
a yard between his lower extremities. It does not kill instantaneously, as may well be imagined.

The jailer, followed by four soldiers, pushed back the bolt and opened the door. A nauseating
odor and currents of thick, damp air escaped from the darkness within at the same time that
laments and sighs were heard. A soldier struck a match, but the flame was choked in such a
foul atmosphere, and they had to wait until the air became fresher.

In the dim light of the candle several human forms became vaguely outlined: men hugging their
knees or hiding their heads between them, some lying face downward, some standing, and some
turned toward the wall. A blow and a creak were heard, accompanied by curses--the stocks were
opened, Doña Consolacion bent forward with the muscles of her neck swelling and her bulging
eyes fixed on the half-opened door.

A wretched figure, Tarsilo, Bruno's brother, came out between two soldiers. On his wrists were
handcuffs and his clothing was in shreds, revealing quite a muscular body. He turned his eyes
insolently on the alferez's woman.

"This is the one who defended himself with the most courage and told his companions to run,"
said the alferez to Padre Salvi.

Behind him came another of miserable aspect, moaning and weeping like a child. He limped along
exposing pantaloons spotted with blood. "Mercy, sir, mercy! I'll not go back into the yard,"
he whimpered.

"He's a rogue," observed the alferez to the curate. "He tried to run, but he was wounded in
the thigh. These are the only two that we took alive."

"What's your name?" the alferez asked Tarsilo.

"Tarsilo Alasigan."

"What did Don Crisostomo promise you for attacking the barracks?"

"Don Crisostomo never had anything to do with us."

"Don't deny it! That's why you tried to surprise us."

"You're mistaken. You beat our father to death and we were avenging him, nothing more. Look
for your two associates."

The alferez gazed at the sergeant in surprise.

"They're over there in the gully where we threw them yesterday and where they'll rot. Now kill
me, you'll not learn anything more."

General surprise and silence, broken by the alferez. "You are going to tell who your other
accomplices are," he threatened, flourishing a rattan whip.

A smile of disdain curled the prisoner's lips. The alferez consulted with the curate in a low
tone for a few moments, then turned to the soldiers. "Take him out where the corpses are,"
he commanded.

On a cart in a corner of the yard were heaped five corpses, partly covered with a filthy piece
of torn matting. A soldier walked about near them, spitting at every moment.

"Do you know them?" asked the alferez, lifting up the matting.

Tarsilo did not answer. He saw the corpse of the madwoman's husband with two others: that of
his brother, slashed with bayonet-thrusts, and that of Lucas with the halter still around his
neck. His look became somber and a sigh seemed to escape from his breast.

"Do you know them?" he was again asked, but he still remained silent.

The air hissed and the rattan cut his shoulders. He shuddered, his muscles contracted. The
blows were redoubled, but he remained unmoved.

"Whip him until he bursts or talks!" cried the exasperated alferez.

"Talk now," the directorcillo advised him. "They'll kill you anyhow."

They led him back into the hall where the other prisoner, with chattering teeth and quaking
limbs, was calling upon the saints.

"Do you know this fellow?" asked Padre Salvi.

"This is the first time that I've ever seen him," replied Tarsilo with a look of pity at the other.

The alferez struck him with his fist and kicked him. "Tie him to the bench!"

Without taking off the handcuffs, which were covered with blood, they tied him to a wooden
bench. The wretched boy looked about him as if seeking something and noticed Doña Consolacion,
at sight of whom he smiled sardonically. In surprise the bystanders followed his glance and
saw the señora, who was lightly gnawing at her lips.

"I've never seen an uglier woman!" exclaimed Tarsilo in the midst of a general silence. "I'd
rather lie down on a bench as I do now than at her side as the alferez does."

The Muse turned pale.

"You're going to flog me to death, Señor Alferez," he went on, "but tonight your woman will
revenge me by embracing you."

"Gag him!" yelled the furious alferez, trembling with wrath.

Tarsilo seemed to have desired the gag, for after it was put in place his eyes gleamed with
satisfaction. At a signal from the alferez, a guard armed with a rattan whip began his gruesome
task. Tarsilo's whole body contracted, and a stifled, prolonged cry escaped from him in spite
of the piece of cloth which covered his mouth. His head drooped and his clothes became stained
with blood.

Padre Salvi, pallid and with wandering looks, arose laboriously, made a sign with his hand,
and left the hall with faltering steps. In the street he saw a young woman leaning with her
shoulders against the wall, rigid, motionless, listening attentively, staring into space, her
clenched hands stretched out along the wall. The sun beat down upon her fiercely. She seemed
to be breathlessly counting those dry, dull strokes and those heartrending groans. It was Tarsilo's
sister.

Meanwhile, the scene in the hall continued. The wretched boy, overcome with pain, silently
waited for his executioners to become weary. At last the panting soldier let his arm fall,
and the alferez, pale with anger and astonishment, made a sign for them to untie him. Doña
Consolacion then arose and murmured a few words into the ear of her husband, who nodded his
head in understanding.

"To the well with him!" he ordered.

The Filipinos know what this means: in Tagalog they call it timbaín. We do not know who invented
this procedure, but we judge that it must be quite ancient. Truth at the bottom of a well may
perhaps be a sarcastic interpretation.

In the center of the yard rose the picturesque curb of a well, roughly fashioned from living
rock. A rude apparatus of bamboo in the form of a well-sweep served for drawing up the thick,
slimy, foul-smelling water. Broken pieces of pottery, manure, and other refuse were collected
there, since this well was like the jail, being the place for what society rejected or found
useless, and any object that fell into it, however good it might have been, was then a thing
lost. Yet it was never closed up, and even at times the prisoners were condemned to go down
and deepen it, not because there was any thought of getting anything useful out of such punishment,
but because of the difficulties the work offered. A prisoner who once went down there would
contract a fever from which he would surely die.

Tarsilo gazed upon all the preparations of the soldiers with a fixed look. He was pale, and
his lips trembled or murmured a prayer. The haughtiness of his desperation seemed to have disappeared
or, at least, to have weakened. Several times he bent his stiff neck and fixed his gaze on
the ground as though resigned to his sufferings. They led him to the well-curb, followed by
the smiling Doña Consolacion. In his misery he cast a glance of envy toward the heap of corpses
and a sigh escaped from his breast.

"Talk now," the directorcillo again advised him. "They'll hang you anyhow. You'll at least
die without suffering so much."

"You'll come out of this only to die," added a cuadrillero.

They took away the gag and hung him up by his feet, for he must go down head foremost and remain
some time under the water, just as the bucket does, only that the man is left a longer time.
While the alferez was gone to look for a watch to count the minutes, Tarsilo hung with his
long hair streaming down and his eyes half closed.

"If you are Christians, if you have any heart," he begged in a low voice, "let me down quickly
or make my head strike against the sides so that I'll die. God will reward you for this good
deed--perhaps some day you may be as I am!"

The alferez returned, watch in hand, to superintend the lowering.

"Slowly, slowly!" cried Doña Consolacion, as she kept her gaze fixed on the wretch. "Be careful!"

The well-sweep moved gently downwards. Tarsilo rubbed against the jutting stones and filthy
weeds that grew in the crevices. Then the sweep stopped while the alferez counted the seconds.

"Lift him up!" he ordered, at the end of a half-minute. The silvery and harmonious tinkling
of the drops of water falling back indicated the prisoner's return to the light. Now that the
sweep was heavier he rose rapidly. Pieces of stone and pebbles torn from the walls fell noisily.
His forehead and hair smeared with filthy slime, his face covered with cuts and bruises, his
body wet and dripping, he appeared to the eyes of the silent crowd. The wind made him shiver
with cold.

"Will you talk?" he was asked.

"Take care of my sister," murmured the unhappy boy as he gazed beseechingly toward one of the
cuadrilleros.

The bamboo sweep again creaked, and the condemned boy once more disappeared. Doña Consolacion
observed that the water remained quiet. The alferez counted a minute.

When Tarsilo again came up his features were contracted and livid. With his bloodshot eyes
wide open, he looked at the bystanders.

"Are you going to talk?" the alferez again demanded in dismay.

Tarsilo shook his head, and they again lowered him. His eyelids were closing as the pupils
continued to stare at the sky where the fleecy clouds floated; he doubled back his neck so
that he might still see the light of day, but all too soon he had to go down into the water,
and that foul curtain shut out the sight of the world from him forever.

A minute passed. The watchful Muse saw large bubbles rise to the surface of the water. "He's
thirsty," she commented with a laugh. The water again became still.

This time the alferez did not give the signal for a minute and a half. Tarsilo's features were
now no longer contracted. The half-raised lids left the whites of his eyes showing, from his
mouth poured muddy water streaked with blood, but his body did not tremble in the chill breeze.

Pale and terrified, the silent bystanders gazed at one another. The alferez made a sign that
they should take the body down, and then moved away thoughtfully. Doña Consolation applied
the lighted end of her cigar to the bare legs, but the flesh did not twitch and the fire was
extinguished.

"He strangled himself," murmured a cuadrillero. "Look how he turned his tongue back as if trying
to swallow it."

The other prisoner, who had watched this scene, sweating and trembling, now stared like a lunatic
in all directions. The alferez ordered the directorcillo to question him.

"Sir, sir," he groaned, "I'll tell everything you want me to."

"Good! Let's see, what's your name?"

"Andong, [144] sir!"

"Bernardo--Leonardo--Ricardo--Eduardo--Gerardo--or what?"

"Andong, sir!" repeated the imbecile.

"Put it down Bernardo, or whatever it may be," dictated the alferez.

"Surname?"

The man gazed at him in terror.

"What name have you that is added to the name Andong?"

"Ah, sir! Andong the Witless, sir!"

The bystander's could not restrain a smile. Even the alferez paused in his pacing about.

"Occupation?"

"Pruner of coconut trees, sir, and servant of my mother-in-law."

"Who ordered you to attack the barracks?"

"No one, sir!"

"What, no one? Don't lie about it or into the well you go! Who ordered you? Say truly!"

"Truly, sir!"

"Who?"

"Who, sir!"

"I'm asking you who ordered you to start the revolution?"

"What revolution, sir?"

"This one, for you were in the yard by the barracks last night."

"Ah, sir!" exclaimed Andong, blushing.

"Who's guilty of that?"

"My mother-in-law, sir!"

Surprise and laughter followed these words. The alferez stopped and stared not unkindly at
the wretch, who, thinking that his words had produced a good effect, went on with more spirit:
"Yes, sir, my mother-in-law doesn't give me anything to eat but what is rotten and unfit, so
last night when I came by here with my belly aching I saw the yard of the barracks near and
I said to myself, 'It's night-time, no one will see me.' I went in--and then many shots sounded--"

A blow from the rattan cut his speech short.

"To the jail," ordered the alferez. "This afternoon, to the capital!"

CHAPTER LVIII

The Accursed

Soon the news spread through the town that the prisoners were about to set out. At first it
was heard with terror; afterward came the weeping and wailing. The families of the prisoners
ran about in distraction, going from the convento to the barracks, from the barracks to the
town hall, and finding no consolation anywhere, filled the air with cries and groans. The curate
had shut himself up on a plea of illness; the alferez had increased the guards, who received
the supplicating women with the butts of their rifles; the gobernadorcillo, at best a useless
creature, seemed to be more foolish and more useless than ever. In front of the jail the women
who still had strength enough ran to and fro, while those who had not sat down on the ground
and called upon the names of their beloved.

Although the sun beat down fiercely, not one of these unfortunates thought of going away. Doray,
the erstwhile merry and happy wife of Don Filipo, wandered about dejectedly, carrying in her
arms their infant son, both weeping. To the advice of friends that she go back home to avoid
exposing her baby to an attack of fever, the disconsolate woman replied, "Why should he live,
if he isn't going to have a father to rear him?"

"Your husband is innocent. Perhaps he'll come back."

"Yes, after we're all dead!"

Capitana Tinay wept and called upon her son Antonio. The courageous Capitana Maria gazed silently
toward the small grating behind which were her twin-boys, her only sons.

There was present also the mother-in-law of the pruner of coco-palms, but she was not weeping;
instead, she paced back and forth, gesticulating with uplifted arms, and haranguing the crowd:
"Did you ever see anything like it? To arrest my Andong, to shoot at him, to put him in the
stocks, to take him to the capital, and only because--because he had a new pair of pantaloons!
This calls for vengeance! The civil-guards are committing abuses! I swear that if I ever again
catch one of them in my garden, as has often happened, I'll chop him up, I'll chop him up,
or else--let him try to chop me up!" Few persons, however, joined in the protests of the Mussulmanish
mother-in-law.

"Don Crisostomo is to blame for all this," sighed a woman.

The schoolmaster was also in the crowd, wandering about bewildered. Ñor Juan did not rub his
hands, nor was he carrying his rule and plumb-bob; he was dressed in black, for he had heard
the bad news and, true to his habit of looking upon the future as already assured, was in mourning
for Ibarra's death.

At two o'clock in the afternoon an open cart drawn by two oxen stopped in front of the town
hall. This was at once set upon by the people, who attempted to unhitch the oxen and destroy
it. "Don't do that!" said Capitana Maria. "Do you want to make them walk?" This consideration
acted as a restraint on the prisoners' relatives.

Twenty soldiers came out and surrounded the cart; then the prisoners appeared. The first was
Don Filipo, bound. He greeted his wife smilingly, but Doray broke out into bitter weeping and
two guards had difficulty in preventing her from embracing her husband. Antonio, the son of
Capitana Tinay, appeared crying like a baby, which only added to the lamentations of his family.
The witless Andong broke out into tears at sight of his mother-in-law, the cause of his misfortune.
Albino, the quondam theological student, was also bound, as were Capitana Maria's twins. All
three were grave and serious. The last to come out was Ibarra, unbound, but conducted between
two guards. The pallid youth looked about him for a friendly face.

"He's the one that's to blame!" cried many voices. "He's to blame and he goes loose!"

"My son-in-law hasn't done anything and he's got handcuffs on!" Ibarra turned to the guards.
"Bind me, and bind me well, elbow to elbow," he said.

"We haven't any order."

"Bind me!" And the soldiers obeyed.

The alferez appeared on horseback, armed to the teeth, ten or fifteen more soldiers following him.

Each prisoner had his family there to pray for him, to weep for him, to bestow on him the most
endearing names--all save Ibarra, who had no one, even Ñor Juan and the schoolmaster having
disappeared.

"Look what you've done to my husband and my son!" Doray cried to him. "Look at my poor son!
You've robbed him of his father!"

So the sorrow of the families was converted into anger toward the young man, who was accused
of having started the trouble. The alferez gave the order to set out.

"You're a coward!" the mother-in-law of Andong cried after Ibarra. "While others were fighting
for you, you hid yourself, coward!"

"May you be accursed!" exclaimed an old man, running along beside him. "Accursed be the gold
amassed by your family to disturb our peace! Accursed! Accursed!"

"May they hang you, heretic!" cried a relative of Albino's. Unable to restrain himself, he
caught up a stone and threw it at the youth.

This example was quickly followed, and a rain of dirt and stones fell on the wretched young
man. Without anger or complaint, impassively he bore the righteous vengeance of so many suffering
hearts. This was the parting, the farewell, offered to him by the people among whom were all
his affections. With bowed head, he was perhaps thinking of a man whipped through the streets
of Manila, of an old woman falling dead at the sight of her son's head; perhaps Elias's history
was passing before his eyes.

The alferez found it necessary to drive the crowd back, but the stone-throwing and the insults
did not cease. One mother alone did not wreak vengeance on him for her sorrows, Capitana Maria.
Motionless, with lips contracted and eyes full of silent tears, she saw her two sons move away;
her firmness, her dumb grief surpassed that of the fabled Niobe.

So the procession moved on. Of the persons who appeared at the few open windows those who showed
most pity for the youth were the indifferent and the curious. All his friends had hidden themselves,
even Capitan Basilio himself, who forbade his daughter Sinang to weep.

Ibarra saw the smoking ruins of his house--the home of his fathers, where he was born, where
clustered the fondest recollections of his childhood and his youth. Tears long repressed started
into his eyes, and he bowed his head and wept without having the consolation of being able
to hide his grief, tied as he was, nor of having any one in whom his sorrow awoke compassion.
Now he had neither country, nor home, nor love, nor friends, nor future!

From a slight elevation a man gazed upon the sad procession. He was an old man, pale and emaciated,
wrapped in a woolen blanket, supporting himself with difficulty on a staff. It was the old
Sage, Tasio, who, on hearing of the event, had left his bed to be present, but his strength
had not been sufficient to carry him to the town hall. The old man followed the cart with his
gaze until it disappeared in the distance and then remained for some time afterward with his
head bowed, deep in thought. Then he stood up and laboriously made his way toward his house,
pausing to rest at every step. On the following day some herdsmen found him dead on the very
threshold of his solitary home.

CHAPTER LIX

Patriotism and Private Interests

Secretly the telegraph transmitted the report to Manila, and thirty-six hours later the newspapers
commented on it with great mystery and not a few dark hints--augmented, corrected, or mutilated
by the censor. In the meantime, private reports, emanating from the convents, were the first
to gain secret currency from mouth to mouth, to the great terror of those who heard them. The
fact, distorted in a thousand ways, was believed with greater or less ease according to whether
it was flattering or worked contrary to the passions and ways of thinking of each hearer.

Without public tranquillity seeming disturbed, at least outwardly, yet the peace of mind of
each home was whirled about like the water in a pond: while the surface appears smooth and
clear, in the depths the silent fishes swarm, dive about, and chase one another. For one part
of the population crosses, decorations, epaulets, offices, prestige, power, importance, dignities
began to whirl about like butterflies in a golden atmosphere. For the other part a dark cloud
arose on the horizon, projecting from its gray depths, like black silhouettes, bars, chains,
and even the fateful gibbet. In the air there seemed to be heard investigations, condemnations,
and the cries from the torture chamber; Marianas [145] and Bagumbayan presented themselves
wrapped in a torn and bloody veil, fishers and fished confused. Fate pictured the event to
the imaginations of the Manilans like certain Chinese fans--one side painted black, the other
gilded with bright-colored birds and flowers.

In the convents the greatest excitement prevailed. Carriages were harnessed, the Provincials
exchanged visits and held secret conferences; they presented themselves in the palaces to offer
their aid to the government in its perilous crisis. Again there was talk of comets and omens.

"A Te Deum! A Te Deum!" cried a friar in one convent. "This time let no one be absent from
the chorus! It's no small mercy from God to make it clear just now, especially in these hopeless
times, how much we are worth!"

"The little general Mal-Aguero [146] can gnaw his lips over this lesson," responded another.

"What would have become of him if not for the religious corporations?"

"And to celebrate the fiesta better, serve notice on the cook and the refectioner. Gaudeamus
for three days!"

"Amen!" "Viva Salvi!" "Amen!"

In another convent they talked differently.

"You see, now, that fellow is a pupil of the Jesuits. The filibusters come from the Ateneo."

"And the anti-friars."

"I told you so. The Jesuits are ruining the country, they're corrupting the youth, but they
are tolerated because they trace a few scrawls on a piece of paper when there is an earthquake."

"And God knows how they are made!"

"Yes, but don't contradict them. When everything is shaking and moving about, who draws diagrams?
Nothing, Padre Secchi--" [147]

And they smiled with sovereign disdain.

"But what about the weather forecasts and the typhoons?" asked another ironically. "Aren't
they divine?"

"Any fisherman foretells them!"

"When he who governs is a fool--tell me how your head is and I'll tell you how your foot is!
But you'll see if the friends favor one another. The newspapers very nearly ask a miter for
Padre Salvi."

"He's going to get it! He'll lick it right up!"

"Do you think so?"

"Why not! Nowadays they grant one for anything whatsoever. I know of a fellow who got one for
less. He wrote a cheap little work demonstrating that the Indians are not capable of being
anything but mechanics. Pshaw, old-fogyisms!"

"That's right! So much favoritism injures Religion!" exclaimed another. "If the miters only
had eyes and could see what heads they were upon--"

"If the miters were natural objects," added another in a nasal tone, "Natura abhorrer vacuum."

"That's why they grab for them, their emptiness attracts!" responded another.

These and many more things were said in the convents, but we will spare our reader other comments
of a political, metaphysical, or piquant nature and conduct him to a private house. As we have
few acquaintances in Manila, let us enter the home of Capitan Tinong, the polite individual
whom we saw so profusely inviting Ibarra to honor him with a visit.

In the rich and spacious sala of his Tondo house, Capitan Tinong was seated in a wide armchair,
rubbing his hands in a gesture of despair over his face and the nape of his neck, while his
wife, Capitana Tinchang, was weeping and preaching to him. From the corner their two daughters
listened silently and stupidly, yet greatly affected.

"Ay, Virgin of Antipolo!" cried the woman. "Ay, Virgin of the Rosary and of the Girdle! [148]
Ay, ay! Our Lady of Novaliches!"

"Mother!" responded the elder of the daughters.

"I told you so!" continued the wife in an accusing tone. "I told you so! Ay, Virgin of Carmen,
[149] ay!"

"But you didn't tell me anything," Capitan Tinong dared to answer tearfully. "On the contrary,
you told me that I was doing well to frequent Capitan Tiago's house and cultivate friendship
with him, because he's rich--and you told me--"

"What! What did I tell you? I didn't tell you that, I didn't tell you anything! Ay, if you
had only listened to me!"

"Now you're throwing the blame on me," he replied bitterly, slapping the arm of his chair.
"Didn't you tell me that I had done well to invite him to dine with us, because he was wealthy?
Didn't you say that we ought to have friends only among the wealthy? Abá!"

"It's true that I told you so, because--because there wasn't anything else for me to do. You
did nothing but sing his praises: Don Ibarra here, Don Ibarra there, Don Ibarra everywhere.
Abaá! But I didn't advise you to hunt him up and talk to him at that reception! You can't deny
that!"

"Did I know that he was to be there, perhaps?"

"But you ought to have known it!"

"How so, if I didn't even know him?"

"But you ought to have known him!"

"But, Tinchang, it was the first time that I ever saw him, that I ever heard him spoken of!"

"Well then, you ought to have known him before and heard him spoken of. That's what you're
a man for and wear trousers and read El Diario de Manila," [150] answered his unterrified spouse,
casting on him a terrible look.

To this Capitan Tinong did not know what to reply. Capitana Tinchang, however, was not satisfied
with this victory, but wished to silence him completely. So she approached him with clenched
fists. "Is this what I've worked for, year after year, toiling and saving, that you by your
stupidity may throw away the fruits of my labor?" she scolded. "Now they'll come to deport
you, they'll take away all our property, just as they did from the wife of--Oh, if I were a
man, if I were a man!"

Seeing that her husband bowed his head, she again fell to sobbing, but still repeating, "Ay,
if I were a man, if I were a man!"

"Well, if you were a man," the provoked husband at length asked, "what would you do?"

"What would I do? Well--well--well, this very minute I'd go to the Captain-General and offer
to fight against the rebels, this very minute!"

"But haven't you seen what the Diario says? Read it: 'The vile and infamous treason has been
suppressed with energy, strength, and vigor, and soon the rebellious enemies of the Fatherland
and their accomplices will feel all the weight and severity of the law.' Don't you see it?
There isn't any more rebellion."

"That doesn't matter! You ought to offer yourself as they did in '72; [151] they saved themselves."

"Yes, that's what was done by Padre Burg--"

But he was unable to finish this name, for his wife ran to him and slapped her hand over his
mouth. "Shut up! Are you saying that name so that they may garrote you tomorrow on Bagumbayan?
Don't you know that to pronounce it is enough to get yourself condemned without trial? Keep quiet!"

However Capitan Tinong may have felt about obeying her, he could hardly have done otherwise,
for she had his mouth covered with both her hands, pressing his little head against the back
of the chair, so that the poor fellow might have been smothered to death had not a new personage
appeared on the scene. This was their cousin, Don Primitivo, who had memorized the "Amat,"
a man of some forty years, plump, big-paunched, and elegantly dressed.

"Quid video?" he exclaimed as he entered. "What's happening? Quare?" [152]

"Ay, cousin!" cried the woman, running toward him in tears, "I've sent for you because I don't
know what's going to become of us. What do you advise? Speak, you've studied Latin and know
how to argue."

"But first, quid quaeritis? Nihil est in intellectu quod prius non fuerit in sensu; nihil volitum
quin praecognitum." [153]

He sat down gravely and, just as if the Latin phrases had possessed a soothing virtue, the
couple ceased weeping and drew nearer to him to hang upon the advice from his lips, as at one
time the Greeks did before the words of salvation from the oracle that was to free them from
the Persian invaders.

"Why do you weep? Ubinam gentium sumus?" [154]

"You've already heard of the uprising?"

"Alzamentum Ibarrae ab alferesio Guardiae Civilis destructum? Et nunc? [155] What! Does Don
Crisostomo owe you anything?"

"No, but you know, Tinong invited him to dinner and spoke to him on the Bridge of Spain--in
broad daylight! They'll say that he's a friend of his!"

"A friend of his!" exclaimed the startled Latinist, rising. "Amice, amicus Plato sed magis
amica veritas. Birds of a feather flock together. Malum est negotium et est timendum rerum
istarum horrendissimum resultatum! [156] Ahem!"

Capitan Tinong turned deathly pale at hearing so many words in um; such a sound presaged ill.
His wife clasped her hands supplicatingly and said:

"Cousin, don't talk to us in Latin now. You know that we're not philosophers like you. Let's
talk in Spanish or Tagalog. Give us some advice."

"It's a pity that you don't understand Latin, cousin. Truths in Latin are lies in Tagalog;
for example, contra principia negantem fustibus est arguendum [157] in Latin is a truth like
Noah's ark, but I put it into practise once and I was the one who got whipped. So, it's a pity
that you don't know Latin. In Latin everything would be straightened out."

"We, too, know many oremus, parcenobis, and Agnus Dei Catolis, [158] but now we shouldn't understand
one another. Provide Tinong with an argument so that they won't hang him!"

"You're done wrong, very wrong, cousin, in cultivating friendship with that young man," replied
the Latinist.

"The righteous suffer for the sinners. I was almost going to advise you to make your will.
Vae illis! Ubi est fumus ibi est ignis! Similis simili audet; atqui Ibarra ahorcatur, ergo
ahorcaberis--" [159] With this he shook his head from side to side disgustedly.

"Saturnino, what's the matter?" cried Capitana Tinchang in dismay. "Ay, he's dead! A doctor!
Tinong, Tinongoy!"

The two daughters ran to her, and all three fell to weeping. "It's nothing more than a swoon,
cousin! I would have been more pleased that--that--but unfortunately it's only a swoon. Non
timeo mortem in catre sed super espaldonem Bagumbayanis. [160] Get some water!"

"Don't die!" sobbed the wife. "Don't die, for they'll come and arrest you! Ay, if you die and
the soldiers come, ay, ay!"

The learned cousin rubbed the victim's face with water until he recovered consciousness. "Come,
don't cry. Inveni remedium: I've found a remedy. Let's carry him to bed. Come, take courage!
Here I am with you--and all the wisdom of the ancients. Call a doctor, and you, cousin, go
right away to the Captain-General and take him a present--a gold ring, a chain. Dadivae quebrantant
peñas. [161] Say that it's a Christmas gift. Close the windows, the doors, and if any one asks
for my cousin, say that he is seriously ill. Meanwhile, I'll burn all his letters, papers,
and books, so that they can't find anything, just as Don Crisostomo did. Scripti testes sunt!
Quod medicamenta non sanant, ferrum sanat, quod ferrum non sanat, ignis sanat." [162]

"Yes, do so, cousin, burn everything!" said Capitana Tinchang. "Here are the keys, here are
the letters from Capitan Tiago. Burn them! Don't leave a single European newspaper, for they're
very dangerous. Here are the copies of The Times that I've kept for wrapping up soap and old
clothes. Here are the books."

"Go to the Captain-General, cousin," said Don Primitivo, "and leave us alone. In extremis extrema.
[163] Give me the authority of a Roman dictator, and you'll see how soon I'll save the coun--I
mean, my cousin."

He began to give orders and more orders, to upset bookcases, to tear up papers, books, and
letters. Soon a big fire was burning in the kitchen. Old shotguns were smashed with axes, rusty
revolvers were thrown away. The maidservant who wanted to keep the barrel of one for a blowpipe
received a reprimand:

"Conservare etiam sperasti, perfida? [164] Into the fire!" So he continued his auto da fé.
Seeing an old volume in vellum, he read the title, Revolutions of the Celestial Globes, by
Copernicus. Whew! "Ite, maledicti, in ignem kalanis!" [165] he exclaimed, hurling it into the
flames. "Revolutions and Copernicus! Crimes on crimes! If I hadn't come in time! Liberty in
the Philippines! Ta, ta, ta! What books! Into the fire!"

Harmless books, written by simple authors, were burned; not even the most innocent work escaped.
Cousin Primitivo was right: the righteous suffer for the sinners.

Four or five hours later, at a pretentious reception in the Walled City, current events were
being commented upon. There were present a lot of old women and maidens of marriageable age,
the wives and daughters of government employees, dressed in loose gowns, fanning themselves
and yawning. Among the men, who, like the women, showed in their faces their education and
origin, was an elderly gentleman, small and one-armed, whom the others treated with great respect.
He himself maintained a disdainful silence.

"To tell the truth, formerly I couldn't endure the friars and the civil-guards, they're so
rude," said a corpulent dame, "but now that I see their usefulness and their services, I would
almost marry any one of them gladly. I'm a patriot."

"That's what I say!" added a thin lady. "What a pity that we haven't our former governor. He
would leave the country as clean as a platter."

"And the whole race of filibusters would be exterminated!"

"Don't they say that there are still a lot of islands to be populated? Why don't they deport
all these crazy Indians to them? If I were the Captain-General--"

"Señoras," interrupted the one-armed individual, "the Captain-General knows his duty. As I've
heard, he's very much irritated, for he had heaped favors on that Ibarra."

"Heaped favors on him!" echoed the thin lady, fanning herself furiously. "Look how ungrateful
these Indians are! Is it possible to treat them as if they were human beings? Jesús!"

"Do you know what I've heard?" asked a military official.

"What's that?"

"Let's hear it!"

"What do they say?"

"Reputable persons," replied the officer in the midst of a profound silence, "state that this
agitation for building a schoolhouse was a pure fairy tale."

"Jesús! Just see that!" the señoras exclaimed, already believing in the trick.

"The school was a pretext. What he wanted to build was a fort from which he could safely defend
himself when we should come to attack him."

"What infamy! Only an Indian is capable of such cowardly thoughts," exclaimed the fat lady.
"If I were the Captain-General they would soon seem they would soon see--"

"That's what I say!" exclaimed the thin lady, turning to the one-armed man. "Arrest all the
little lawyers, priestlings, merchants, and without trial banish or deport them! Tear out the
evil by the roots!"

"But it's said that this filibuster is the descendant of Spaniards," observed the one-armed
man, without looking at any one in particular.

"Oh, yes!" exclaimed the fat lady, unterrified. "It's always the creoles! No Indian knows anything
about revolution! Rear crows, rear crows!" [166]

"Do you know what I've heard?" asked a creole lady, to change the topic of conversation. "The
wife of Capitan Tinong, you remember her, the woman in whose house we danced and dined during
the fiesta of Tondo--"

"The one who has two daughters? What about her?"

"Well, that woman just this afternoon presented the Captain-General with a ring worth a thousand
pesos!"

The one-armed man turned around. "Is that so? Why?" he asked with shining eyes.

"She said that it was a Christmas gift--"

"But Christmas doesn't come for a month yet!"

"Perhaps she's afraid the storm is blowing her way," observed the fat lady.

"And is getting under cover," added the thin señora.

"When no return is asked, it's a confession of guilt."

"This must be carefully looked into," declared the one-armed man thoughtfully. "I fear that
there's a cat in the bag."

"A cat in the bag, yes! That's just what I was going to say," echoed the thin lady.

"And so was I," said the other, taking the words out of her mouth, "the wife of Capitan Tinong
is so stingy--she hasn't yet sent us any present and that after we've been in her house. So,
when such a grasping and covetous woman lets go of a little present worth a thousand pesos--"

"But, is it a fact?" inquired the one-armed man.

"Certainly! Most certainly! My cousin's sweetheart, his Excellency's adjutant, told her so.
And I'm of the opinion that it's the very same ring that the older daughter wore on the day
of the fiesta. She's always covered with diamonds."

"A walking show-case!"

"A way of attracting attention, like any other! Instead of buying a fashion plate or paying
a dressmaker--"

Giving some pretext, the one-armed man left the gathering. Two hours later, when the world
slept, various residents of Tondo received an invitation through some soldiers. The authorities
could not consent to having certain persons of position and property sleep in such poorly guarded
and badly ventilated houses--in Fort Santiago and other government buildings their sleep would
be calmer and more refreshing. Among these favored persons was included the unfortunate Capitan
Tinong.

CHAPTER LX

Maria Clara Weds

Capitan Tiago was very happy, for in all this terrible storm no one had taken any notice of
him. He had not been arrested, nor had he been subjected to solitary confinement, investigations,
electric machines, continuous foot-baths in underground cells, or other pleasantries that are
well-known to certain folk who call themselves civilized. His friends, that is, those who had
been his friends--for the good man had denied all his Filipino friends from the instant when
they were suspected by the government--had also returned to their homes after a few days' vacation
in the state edifices. The Captain-General himself had ordered that they be cast out from his
precincts, not considering them worthy of remaining therein, to the great disgust of the one-armed
individual, who had hoped to celebrate the approaching Christmas in their abundant and opulent
company.

Capitan Tinong had returned to his home sick, pale, and swollen; the excursion had not done
him good. He was so changed that he said not a word, nor even greeted his family, who wept,
laughed, chattered, and almost went mad with joy. The poor man no longer ventured out of his
house for fear of running the risk of saying good-day to a filibuster. Not even Don Primitivo
himself, with all the wisdom of the ancients, could draw him out of his silence.

"Crede, prime," the Latinist told him, "if I hadn't got here to burn all your papers, they
would have squeezed your neck; and if I had burned the whole house they wouldn't have touched
a hair of your head. But quod eventum, eventum; gratias agamus Domino Deo quia non in Marianis
Insulis es, camotes seminando." [167]

Stories similar to Capitan Tinong's were not unknown to Capitan Tiago, so he bubbled over with
gratitude, without knowing exactly to whom he owed such signal favors. Aunt Isabel attributed
the miracle to the Virgin of Antipolo, to the Virgin of the Rosary, or at least to the Virgin
of Carmen, and at the very, very least that she was willing to concede, to Our Lady of the
Girdle; according to her the miracle could not get beyond that.

Capitan Tiago did not deny the miracle, but added: "I think so, Isabel, but the Virgin of Antipolo
couldn't have done it alone. My friends have helped, my future son-in-law, Señor Linares, who,
as you know, joked with Señor Antonio Canovas himself, the premier whose portrait appears in
the Ilustración, he who doesn't condescend to show more than half his face to the people."

So the good man could not repress a smile of satisfaction every time that he heard any important
news. And there was plenty of news: it was whispered about in secret that Ibarra would be hanged;
that, while many proofs of his guilt had been lacking, at last some one had appeared to sustain
the accusation; that experts had declared that in fact the work on the schoolhouse could pass
for a bulwark of fortification, although somewhat defective, as was only to be expected of
ignorant Indians. These rumors calmed him and made him smile.

In the same way that Capitan Tiago and his cousin diverged in their opinions, the friends of
the family were also divided into two parties,--one miraculous, the other governmental, although
this latter was insignificant. The miraculous party was again subdivided: the senior sacristan
of Binondo, the candle-woman, and the leader of the Brotherhood saw the hand of God directed
by the Virgin of the Rosary; while the Chinese wax-chandler, his caterer on his visits to Antipolo,
said, as he fanned himself and shook his leg:

"Don't fool yourself--it's the Virgin of Antipolo! She can do more than all the rest--don't
fool yourself!" [168]

Capitan Tiago had great respect for this Chinese, who passed himself off as a prophet and a
physician. Examining the palm of the deceased lady just before her daughter was born, he had
prognosticated: "If it's not a boy and doesn't die, it'll be a fine girl!" [169] and Maria
Clara had come into the world to fulfill the infidel's prophecy.

Capitan Tiago, then, as a prudent and cautious man, could not decide so easily as Trojan Paris--he
could not so lightly give the preference to one Virgin for fear of offending another, a situation
that might be fraught with grave consequences. "Prudence!" he said to himself. "Let's not go
and spoil it all now."

He was still in the midst of these doubts when the governmental party arrived,--Doña Victorina,
Don Tiburcio, and Linares. Doña Victorina did the talking for the three men as well as for
herself. She mentioned Linares' visits to the Captain-General and repeatedly insinuated the
advantages of a relative of "quality." "Now," she concluded, "as we was zaying: he who zhelterz
himzelf well, builds a good roof."

"T-the other w-way, w-woman!" corrected the doctor.

For some days now she had been endeavoring to Andalusize her speech, and no one had been able
to get this idea out of her head--she would sooner have first let them tear off her false frizzes.

"Yez," she went on, speaking of Ibarra, "he deserves it all. I told you zo when I first zaw
him, he's a filibuzter. What did the General zay to you, cousin? What did he zay? What news
did he tell you about thiz Ibarra?"

Seeing that her cousin was slow in answering, she continued, directing her remarks to Capitan
Tiago, "Believe me, if they zentenz him to death, as is to be hoped, it'll be on account of
my cousin."

"Señora, señora!" protested Linares.

But she gave him no time for objections. "How diplomatic you have become! We know that you're
the adviser of the General, that he couldn't live without you. Ah, Clarita, what a pleasure
to zee you!"

Maria Clara was still pale, although now quite recovered from her illness. Her long hair was
tied up with a light blue silk ribbon. With a timid bow and a sad smile she went up to Doña
Victorina for the ceremonial kiss.

After the usual conventional remarks, the pseudo-Andalusian continued: "We've come to visit
you. You've been zaved, thankz to your relations." This was said with a significant glance
toward Linares.

"God has protected my father," replied the girl in a low voice.

"Yez, Clarita, but the time of the miracles is pazt. We Zpaniards zay: 'Truzt in the Virgin
and take to your heels.'"

"T-the other w-way!"

Capitan Tiago, who had up to this point had no chance to speak, now made bold enough to ask,
while he threw himself into an attitude of strict attention, "So you, Doña Victorina, think
that the Virgin--"

"We've come ezpezially to talk with you about the virgin," she answered mysteriously, making
a sign toward Maria Clara. "We've come to talk business."

The maiden understood that she was expected to retire, so with an excuse she went away, supporting
herself on the furniture.

What was said and what was agreed upon in this conference was so sordid and mean that we prefer
not to recount it. It is enough to record that as they took their leave they were all merry,
and that afterwards Capitan Tiago said to Aunt Isabel:

"Notify the restaurant that we'll have a fiesta tomorrow. Get Maria ready, for we're going
to marry her off before long."

Aunt Isabel stared at him in consternation.

"You'll see! When Señor Linares is our son-in-law we'll get into all the palaces. Every one
will envy us, every one will die of envy!"

Thus it happened that at eight o'clock on the following evening the house of Capitan Tiago
was once again filled, but this time his guests were only Spaniards and Chinese. The fair sex
was represented by Peninsular and Philippine-Spanish ladies.

There were present the greater part of our acquaintances: Padre Sibyla and Padre Salvi among
various Franciscans and Dominicans; the old lieutenant of the Civil Guard, Señor Guevara, gloomier
than ever; the alferez, who was for the thousandth time describing his battle and gazing over
his shoulders at every one, believing himself to be a Don John of Austria, for he was now a
major; De Espadaña, who looked at the alferez with respect and fear, and avoided his gaze;
and Doña Victorina, swelling with indignation. Linares had not yet come; as a personage of
importance, he had to arrive later than the others. There are creatures so simple that by being
an hour behind time they transform themselves into great men.

In the group of women Maria Clara was the subject of a murmured conversation. The maiden had
welcomed them all ceremoniously, without losing her air of sadness.

"Pish!" remarked one young woman. "The proud little thing!"

"Pretty little thing!" responded another. "But he might have picked out some other girl with
a less foolish face."

"The gold, child! The good youth is selling himself."

In another part the comments ran thus:

"To get married when her first fiancé is about to be hanged!"

"That's what's called prudence, having a substitute ready."

"Well, when she gets to be a widow--"

Maria Clara was seated in a chair arranging a salver of flowers and doubtless heard all these
remarks, for her hand trembled, she turned pale, and several times bit her lips.

In the circle of men the conversation was carried on in loud tones and, naturally, turned upon
recent events. All were talking, even Don Tiburcio, with the exception of Padre Sibyla, who
maintained his usual disdainful silence.

"I've heard it said that your Reverence is leaving the town, Padre Salvi?" inquired the new
major, whose fresh star had made him more amiable.

"I have nothing more to do there. I'm going to stay permanently in Manila. And you?"

"I'm also leaving the town," answered the ex-alferez, swelling up. "The government needs me
to command a flying column to clean the provinces of filibusters."

Fray Sibyla looked him over rapidly from head to foot and then turned his back completely.

"Is it known for certain what will become of the ringleader, the filibuster?" inquired a government
employee.

"Do you mean Crisostomo Ibarra?" asked another. "The most likely and most just thing is that
he will be hanged, like those of '72."

"He's going to be deported," remarked the old lieutenant, dryly.

"Deported! Nothing more than deported? But it will be a perpetual deportation!" exclaimed several
voices at the same time.

"If that young man," continued the lieutenant, Guevara, in a loud and severe tone, "had been
more cautious, if he had confided less in certain persons with whom he corresponded, if our
prosecutors did not know how to interpret so subtly what is written, that young man would surely
have been acquitted."

This declaration on the part of the old lieutenant and the tone of his voice produced great
surprise among his hearers, who were apparently at a loss to know what to say. Padre Salvi
stared in another direction, perhaps to avoid the gloomy look that the old soldier turned on
him. Maria Clara let her flowers fall and remained motionless. Padre Sibyla, who knew so well
how to be silent, seemed also to be the only one who knew how to ask a question.

"You're speaking of letters, Señor Guevara?"

"I'm speaking of what was told me by his lawyer, who looked after the case with interest and
zeal. Outside of some ambiguous lines which this youth wrote to a woman before he left for
Europe, lines in which the government's attorney saw a plot and a threat against the government,
and which he acknowledged to be his, there wasn't anything found to accuse him of."

"But the declaration of the outlaw before he died?"

"His lawyer had that thrown out because, according to the outlaw himself, they had never communicated
with the young man, but with a certain Lucas, who was an enemy of his, as could be proved,
and who committed suicide, perhaps from remorse. It was proved that the papers found on the
corpse were forged, since the handwriting was like that of Señor Ibarra's seven years ago,
but not like his now, which leads to the belief that the model for them may have been that
incriminating letter. Besides, the lawyer says that if Señor Ibarra had refused to acknowledge
the letter, he might have been able to do a great deal for him--but at sight of the letter
he turned pale, lost his courage, and confirmed everything written in it."

"Did you say that the letter was directed to a woman?" asked a Franciscan. "How did it get
into the hands of the prosecutor?"

The lieutenant did not answer. He stared for a moment at Padre Salvi and then moved away, nervously
twisting the sharp point of his gray beard. The others made their comments.

"There is seen the hand of God!" remarked one. "Even the women hate him."

"He had his house burned down, thinking in that way to save himself, but he didn't count on
the guest, on his querida, his babaye," added another, laughing. "It's the work of God! Santiago
y cierra España!" [170]

Meanwhile the old soldier paused in his pacing about and approached Maria Clara, who was listening
to the conversation, motionless in her chair, with the flowers scattered at her feet.

"You are a very prudent girl," the old officer whispered to her. "You did well to give up the
letter. You have thus assured yourself an untroubled future."

With startled eyes she watched him move away from her, and bit her lip. Fortunately, Aunt Isabel
came along, and she had sufficient strength left to catch hold of the old lady's skirt.

"Aunt!" she murmured.

"What's the matter?" asked the old lady, frightened by the look on the girl's face.

"Take me to my room!" she pleaded, grasping her aunt's arm in order to rise.

"Are you sick, daughter? You look as if you'd lost your bones! What's the matter?"

"A fainting spell--the people in the room--so many lights--I need to rest. Tell father that
I'm going to sleep."

"You're cold. Do you want some tea?"

Maria Clara shook her head, entered and locked the door of her chamber, and then, her strength
failing her, she fell sobbing to the floor at the feet of an image.

"Mother, mother, mother mine!" she sobbed.

Through the window and a door that opened on the azotea the moonlight entered. The musicians
continued to play merry waltzes, laughter and the hum of voices penetrated into the chamber,
several times her father, Aunt Isabel, Doña Victorina, and even Linares knocked at the door,
but Maria did not move. Heavy sobs shook her breast.

Hours passed--the pleasures of the dinner-table ended, the sound of singing and dancing was
heard, the candle burned itself out, but the maiden still remained motionless on the moonlit
floor at the feet of an image of the Mother of Jesus.

Gradually the house became quiet again, the lights were extinguished, and Aunt Isabel once
more knocked at the door.

"Well, she's gone to sleep," said the old woman, aloud. "As she's young and has no cares, she
sleeps like a corpse."

When all was silence she raised herself slowly and threw a look about her. She saw the azotea
with its little arbors bathed in the ghostly light of the moon.

"An untroubled future! She sleeps like a corpse!" she repeated in a low voice as she made her
way out to the azotea.

The city slept. Only from time to time there was heard the noise of a carriage crossing the
wooden bridge over the river, whose undisturbed waters reflected smoothly the light of the
moon. The young woman raised her eyes toward a sky as clear as sapphire. Slowly she took the
rings from her fingers and from her ears and removed the combs from her hair. Placing them
on the balustrade of the azotea, she gazed toward the river.

A small banka loaded with zacate stopped at the foot of the landing such as every house on
the bank of the river has. One of two men who were in it ran up the stone stairway and jumped
over the wall, and a few seconds later his footsteps were heard on the stairs leading to the
azotea.

Maria Clara saw him pause on discovering her, but only for a moment. Then he advanced slowly
and stopped within a few paces of her. Maria Clara recoiled.

"Crisostomo!" she murmured, overcome with fright.

"Yes, I am Crisostomo," replied the young man gravely. "An enemy, a man who has every reason
for hating me, Elias, has rescued me from the prison into which my friends threw me."

A sad silence followed these words. Maria Clara bowed her head and let her arms fall.

Ibarra went on: "Beside my mother's corpse I swore that I would make you happy, whatever might
be my destiny! You can have been faithless to your oath, for she was not your mother; but I,
I who am her son, hold her memory so sacred that in spite of a thousand difficulties I have
come here to carry mine out, and fate has willed that I should speak to you yourself. Maria,
we shall never see each other again--you are young and perhaps some day your conscience may
reproach you--I have come to tell you, before I go away forever, that I forgive you. Now, may
you be happy and--farewell!"

Ibarra started to move away, but the girl stopped him.

"Crisostomo," she said, "God has sent you to save me from desperation. Hear me and then judge me!"

Ibarra tried gently to draw away from her. "I didn't come to call you to account! I came to
give you peace!"

"I don't want that peace which you bring me. Peace I will give myself. You despise me and your
contempt will embitter all the rest of my life."

Ibarra read the despair and sorrow depicted in the suffering girl's face and asked her what
she wished.

"That you believe that I have always loved you!"

At this he smiled bitterly.

"Ah, you doubt me! You doubt the friend of your childhood, who has never hidden a single thought
from you!" the maiden exclaimed sorrowfully. "I understand now! But when you hear my story,
the sad story that was revealed to me during my illness, you will have mercy on me, you will
not have that smile for my sorrow. Why did you not let me die in the hands of my ignorant physician?
You and I both would have been happier!"

Resting a moment, she then went on: "You have desired it, you have doubted me! But may my mother
forgive me! On one of the sorrowfulest of my nights of suffering, a man revealed to me the
name of my real father and forbade me to love you--except that my father himself should pardon
the injury you had done him."

Ibarra recoiled a pace and gazed fearfully at her.

"Yes," she continued, "that man told me that he could not permit our union, since his conscience
would forbid it, and that he would be obliged to reveal the name of my real father at the risk
of causing a great scandal, for my father is--" And she murmured into the youth's ear a name
in so low a tone that only he could have heard it.

"What was I to do? Must I sacrifice to my love the memory of my mother, the honor of my supposed
father, and the good name of the real one? Could I have done that without having even you despise
me?"

"But the proof! Had you any proof? You needed proofs!" exclaimed Ibarra, trembling with emotion.

The maiden snatched two papers from her bosom.

"Two letters of my mother's, two letters written in the midst of her remorse, while I was yet
unborn! Take them, read them, and you will see how she cursed me and wished for my death, which
my father vainly tried to bring about with drugs. These letters he had forgotten in a building
where he had lived; the other man found and preserved them and only gave them up to me in exchange
for your letter, in order to assure himself, so he said, that I would not marry you without
the consent of my father. Since I have been carrying them about with me, in place of your letter,
I have, felt the chill in my heart. I sacrificed you, I sacrificed my love! What else could
one do for a dead mother and two living fathers? Could I have suspected the use that was to
be made of your letter?"

Ibarra stood appalled, while she continued: "What more was left for me to do? Could I perhaps
tell you who my father was, could I tell you that you should beg forgiveness of him who made
your father suffer so much? Could I ask my father that he forgive you, could I tell him that
I knew that I was his daughter--him, who desired my death so eagerly? It was only left to me
to suffer, to guard the secret, and to die suffering! Now, my friend, now that you know the
sad history of your poor Maria, will you still have for her that disdainful smile?"

"Maria, you are an angel!"

"Then I am happy, since you believe me--"

"But yet," added the youth with a change of tone, "I've heard that you are going to be married."

"Yes," sobbed the girl, "my father demands this sacrifice. He has loved me and cared for me
when it was not his duty to do so, and I will pay this debt of gratitude to assure his peace,
by means of this new relationship, but--"

"But what?"

"I will never forget the vows of faithfulness that I have made to you."

"What are you thinking of doing?" asked Ibarra, trying to read the look in her eyes.

"The future is dark and my destiny is wrapped in gloom! I don't know what I should do. But
know, that I have loved but once and that without love I will never belong to any man. And
you, what is going to become of you?"

"I am only a fugitive, I am fleeing. In a little while my flight will have been discovered.
Maria--"

Maria Clara caught the youth's head in her hands and kissed him repeatedly on the lips, embraced
him, and drew abruptly away. "Go, go!" she cried. "Go, and farewell!"

Ibarra gazed at her with shining eyes, but at a gesture from her moved away--intoxicated, wavering.

Once again he leaped over the wall and stepped into the banka. Maria Clara, leaning over the
balustrade, watched him depart. Elias took off his hat and bowed to her profoundly.

CHAPTER LXI

The Chase on the Lake

"Listen, sir, to the plan that I have worked out," said Elias thoughtfully, as they moved in
the direction of San Gabriel. "I'll hide you now in the house of a friend of mine in Mandaluyong.
I'll bring you all your money, which I saved and buried at the foot of the balete in the mysterious
tomb of your grandfather. Then you will leave the country."

"To go abroad?" inquired Ibarra.

"To live out in peace the days of life that remain to you. You have friends in Spain, you are
rich, you can get yourself pardoned. In every way a foreign country is for us a better fatherland
than our own."

Crisostomo did not answer, but meditated in silence. At that moment they reached the Pasig
and the banka began to ascend the current. Over the Bridge of Spain a horseman galloped rapidly,
while a shrill, prolonged whistle was heard.

"Elias," said Ibarra, "you owe your misfortunes to my family, you have saved my life twice,
and I owe you not only gratitude but also the restitution of your fortune. You advise me to
go abroad--then come with me and we will live like brothers. Here you also are wretched."

Elias shook his head sadly and answered: "Impossible! It's true that I cannot love or be happy
in my country, but I can suffer and die in it, and perhaps for it--that is always something.
May the misfortunes of my native land be my own misfortunes and, although no noble sentiment
unites us, although our hearts do not beat to a single name, at least may the common calamity
bind me to my countrymen, at least may I weep over our sorrows with them, may the same hard
fate oppress all our hearts alike!"

"Then why do you advise me to go away?"

"Because in some other country you could be happy while I could not, because you are not made
to suffer, and because you would hate your country if some day you should see yourself ruined
in its cause, and to hate one's native land is the greatest of calamities."

"You are unfair to me!" exclaimed Ibarra with bitter reproach. "You forget that scarcely had
I arrived here when I set myself to seek its welfare."

"Don't be offended, sir, I was not reproaching you at all. Would that all of us could imitate
you! But I do not ask impossibilities of you and I mean no offense when I say that your heart
deceives you. You loved your country because your father taught you to do so; you loved it
because in it you had affection, fortune, youth, because everything smiled on you, your country
had done you no injustice; you loved it as we love anything that makes us happy. But the day
in which you see yourself poor and hungry, persecuted, betrayed, and sold by your own countrymen,
on that day you will disown yourself, your country, and all mankind."

"Your words pain me," said Ibarra resentfully.

Elias bowed his head and meditated before replying. "I wish to disillusion you, sir, and save
you from a sad future. Recall that night when I talked to you in this same banka under the
light of this same moon, not a month ago. Then you were happy, the plea of the unfortunates
did not touch you; you disdained their complaints because they were the complaints of criminals;
you paid more attention to their enemies, and in spite of my arguments and petitions, you placed
yourself on the side of their oppressors. On you then depended whether I should turn criminal
or allow myself to be killed in order to carry out a sacred pledge, but God has not permitted
this because the old chief of the outlaws is dead. A month has hardly passed and you think
otherwise."

"You're right, Elias, but man is a creature of circumstances! Then I was blind, annoyed--what
did I know? Now misfortune has torn the bandage from my eyes; the solitude and misery of my
prison have taught me; now I see the horrible cancer which feeds upon this society, which clutches
its flesh, and which demands a violent rooting out. They have opened my eyes, they have made
me see the sore, and they force me to be a criminal! Since they wish it, I will be a filibuster,
a real filibuster, I mean. I will call together all the unfortunates, all who feel a heart
beat in their breasts, all those who were sending you to me. No, I will not be a criminal,
never is he such who fights for his native land, but quite the reverse! We, during three centuries,
have extended them our hands, we have asked love of them, we have yearned to call them brothers,
and how do they answer us? With insults and jests, denying us even the chance character of
human beings. There is no God, there is no hope, there is no humanity; there is nothing but
the right of might!" Ibarra was nervous, his whole body trembled.

As they passed in front of the Captain-General's palace they thought that they could discern
movement and excitement among the guards.

"Can they have discovered your flight?" murmured Elias. "Lie down, sir, so that I can cover
you with zacate. Since we shall pass near the powder-magazine it may seem suspicious to the
sentinel that there are two of us."

The banka was one of those small, narrow canoes that do not seem to float but rather to glide
over the top of the water. As Elias had foreseen, the sentinel stopped him and inquired whence
he came.

"From Manila, to carry zacate to the judges and curates," he answered, imitating the accent
of the people of Pandakan.

A sergeant came out to learn what was happening. "Move on!" he said to Elias. "But I warn you
not to take anybody into your banka. A prisoner has just escaped. If you capture him and turn
him over to me I'll give you a good tip."

"All right, sir. What's his description?"

"He wears a sack coat and talks Spanish. So look out!" The banka moved away. Elias looked back
and watched the silhouette of the sentinel standing on the bank of the river.

"We'll lose a few minutes' time," he said in a low voice. "We must go into the Beata River
to pretend that I'm from Peñafrancia. You will see the river of which Francisco Baltazar sang."

The town slept in the moonlight, and Crisostomo rose up to admire the sepulchral peace of nature.
The river was narrow and the level land on either side covered with grass. Elias threw his
cargo out on the bank and, after removing a large piece of bamboo, took from under the grass
some empty palm-leaf sacks. Then they continued on their way.

"You are the master of your own will, sir, and of your future," he said to Crisostomo, who
had remained silent. "But if you will allow me an observation, I would say: think well what
you are planning to do--you are going to light the flames of war, since you have money and
brains, and you will quickly find many to join you, for unfortunately there are plenty of malcontents.
But in this struggle which you are going to undertake, those who will suffer most will be the
defenseless and the innocent. The same sentiments that a month ago impelled me to appeal to
you asking for reforms are those that move me now to urge you to think well. The country, sir,
does not think of separating from the mother country; it only asks for a little freedom, justice,
and affection. You will be supported by the malcontents, the criminals, the desperate, but
the people will hold aloof. You are mistaken if, seeing all dark, you think that the country
is desperate. The country suffers, yes, but it still hopes and trusts and will only rebel when
it has lost its patience, that is, when those who govern it wish it to do so, and that time
is yet distant. I myself will not follow you, never will I resort to such extreme measures
while I see hope in men."

"Then I'll go on without you!" responded Ibarra resolutely.

"Is your decision final?"

"Final and firm; let the memory of my mother bear witness! I will not let peace and happiness
be torn away from me with impunity, I who desired only what was good, I who have respected
everything and endured everything out of love for a hypocritical religion and out of love of
country. How have they answered me? By burying me in an infamous dungeon and robbing me of
my intended wife! No, not to avenge myself would be a crime, it would be encouraging them to
new acts of injustice! No, it would be cowardice, pusillanimity, to groan and weep when there
is blood and life left, when to insult and menace is added mockery. I will call out these ignorant
people, I will make them see their misery. I will teach them to think not of brotherhood but
only that they are wolves for devouring, I will urge them to rise against this oppression and
proclaim the eternal right of man to win his freedom!"

"But innocent people will suffer!"

"So much the better! Can you take me to the mountains?"

"Until you are in safety," replied Elias.

Again they moved out into the Pasig, talking from time to time of indifferent matters.

"Santa Ana!" murmured Ibarra. "Do you recognize this building?" They were passing in front
of the country-house of the Jesuits.

"There I spent many pleasant and happy days!" sighed Elias. "In my time we came every month.
Then I was like others, I had a fortune, family, I dreamed, I looked forward to a future. In
those days I saw my sister in the near-by college, she presented me with a piece of her own
embroidery-work. A friend used to accompany her, a beautiful girl. All that has passed like
a dream."

They remained silent until they reached Malapad-na-bato. [171] Those who have ever made their
way by night up the Pasig, on one of those magical nights that the Philippines offers, when
the moon pours out from the limpid blue her melancholy light, when the shadows hide the miseries
of man and the silence is unbroken by the sordid accents of his voice, when only Nature speaks--they
will understand the thoughts of both these youths.

At Malapad-na-bato the carbineer was sleepy and, seeing that the banka was empty and offered
no booty which he might seize, according to the traditional usage of his corps and the custom
of that post, he easily let them pass on. Nor did the civil-guard at Pasig suspect anything,
so they were not molested.

Day was beginning to break when they reached the lake, still and calm like a gigantic mirror.
The moon paled and the east was dyed in rosy tints. Some distance away they perceived a gray
mass advancing slowly toward them.

"The police boat is coming," murmured Elias. "Lie down and I'll cover you with these sacks."

The outlines of the boat became clearer and plainer.

"It's getting between us and the shore," observed Elias uneasily.

Gradually he changed the course of his banka, rowing toward Binangonan. To his great surprise
he noticed that the boat also changed its course, while a voice called to him.

Elias stopped rowing and reflected. The shore was still far away and they would soon be within
range of the rifles on the police boat. He thought of returning to Pasig, for his banka was
the swifter of the two boats, but unluckily he saw another boat coming from the river and made
out the gleam of caps and bayonets of the Civil Guard.

"We're caught!" he muttered, turning pale.

He gazed at his robust arms and, adopting the only course left, began to row with all his might
toward Talim Island, just as the sun was rising.

The banka slipped rapidly along. Elias saw standing on the boat, which had veered about, some
men making signals to him.

"Do you know how to manage a banka?" he asked Ibarra.

"Yes, why?"

"Because we are lost if I don't jump into the water and throw them off the track. They will
pursue me, but I swim and dive well. I'll draw them away from you and then you can save yourself."

"No, stay here, and we'll sell our lives dearly!"

"That would be useless. We have no arms and with their rifles they would shoot us down like birds."

At that instant the water gave forth a hiss such as is caused by the falling of hot metal into
it, followed instantaneously by a loud report.

"You see!" said Elias, placing the paddle in the boat. "We'll see each other on Christmas Eve
at the tomb of your grandfather. Save yourself."

"And you?"

"God has carried me safely through greater perils."

As Elias took off his camisa a bullet tore it from his hands and two loud reports were heard.
Calmly he clasped the hand of Ibarra, who was still stretched out in the bottom of the banka.
Then he arose and leaped into the water, at the same time pushing the little craft away from
him with his foot.

Cries resounded, and soon some distance away the youth's head appeared, as if for breathing,
then instantly disappeared.

"There, there he is!" cried several voices, and again the bullets whistled.

The police boat and the boat from the Pasig now started in pursuit of him. A light track indicated
his passage through the water as he drew farther and farther away from Ibarra's banka, which
floated about as if abandoned. Every time the swimmer lifted his head above the water to breathe,
the guards in both boats shot at him.

So the chase continued. Ibarra's little banka was now far away and the swimmer was approaching
the shore, distant some thirty yards. The rowers were tired, but Elias was in the same condition,
for he showed his head oftener, and each time in a different direction, as if to disconcert
his pursuers. No longer did the treacherous track indicate the position of the diver. They
saw him for the last time when he was some ten yards from the shore, and fired. Then minute
after minute passed, but nothing again appeared above the still and solitary surface of the lake.

Half an hour afterwards one of the rowers claimed that he could distinguish in the water near
the shore traces of blood, but his companions shook their heads dubiously.

CHAPTER LXII

Padre Damaso Explains

Vainly were the rich wedding presents heaped upon a table; neither the diamonds in their cases
of blue velvet, nor the piña embroideries, nor the rolls of silk, drew the gaze of Maria Clara.
Without reading or even seeing it the maiden sat staring at the newspaper which gave an account
of the death of Ibarra, drowned in the lake.

Suddenly she felt two hands placed over her eyes to hold her fast and heard Padre Damaso's
voice ask merrily, "Who am I? Who am I?"

Maria Clara sprang from her seat and gazed at him in terror.

"Foolish little girl, you're not afraid, are you? You weren't expecting me, eh? Well, I've
come in from the provinces to attend your wedding."

He smiled with satisfaction as he drew nearer to her and held out his hand for her to kiss.
Maria Clara approached him tremblingly and touched his hand respectfully to her lips.

"What's the matter with you, Maria?" asked the Franciscan, losing his merry smile and becoming
uneasy. "Your hand is cold, you're pale. Are you ill, little girl?"

Padre Damaso drew her toward himself with a tenderness that one would hardly have thought him
capable of, and catching both her hands in his questioned her with his gaze.

"Don't you have confidence in your godfather any more?" he asked reproachfully. "Come, sit
down and tell me your little troubles as you used to do when you were a child, when you wanted
tapers to make wax dolls, You know that I've always loved you, I've never been cross with you."

His voice was now no longer brusque, and even became tenderly modulated. Maria Clara began to weep.

"You're crying, little girl? Why do you cry? Have you quarreled with Linares?"

Maria Clara covered her ears. "Don't speak of him not now!" she cried.

Padre Damaso gazed at her in startled wonder.

"Won't you trust me with your secrets? Haven't I always tried to satisfy your lightest whim?"

The maiden raised eyes filled with tears and stared at him for a long time, then again fell
to weeping bitterly.

"Don't cry so, little girl. Your tears hurt me. Tell me your troubles, and you'll see how your
godfather loves you!"

Maria Clara approached him slowly, fell upon her knees, and raising her tear-stained face toward
his asked in a low, scarcely audible tone, "Do you still love me?"

"Child!"

"Then, protect my father and break off my marriage!" Here the maiden told of her last interview
with Ibarra, concealing only her knowledge of the secret of her birth. Padre Damaso could scarcely
credit his ears.

"While he lived," the girl continued, "I thought of struggling, I was hoping, trusting! I wanted
to live so that I might hear of him, but now that they have killed him, now there is no reason
why I should live and suffer." She spoke in low, measured tones, calmly, tearlessly.

"But, foolish girl, isn't Linares a thousand times better than--"

"While he lived, I could have married--I thought of running away afterwards--my father wants
only the relationship! But now that he is dead, no other man shall call me wife! While he was
alive I could debase myself, for there would have remained the consolation that he lived and
perhaps thought of me, but now that he is dead--the nunnery or the tomb!"

The girl's voice had a ring of firmness in it such that Padre Damaso lost his merry air and
became very thoughtful.

"Did you love him as much as that?" he stammered.

Maria Clara did not answer. Padre Damaso dropped his head on his chest and remained silent
for a long time.

"Daughter in God," he exclaimed at length in a broken voice, "forgive me for having made you
unhappy without knowing it. I was thinking of your future, I desired your happiness. How could
I permit you to marry a native of the country, to see you an unhappy wife and a wretched mother?
I couldn't get that love out of your head even though I opposed it with all my might. I committed
wrongs, for you, solely for you. If you had become his wife you would have mourned afterwards
over the condition of your husband, exposed to all kinds of vexations without means of defense.
As a mother you would have mourned the fate of your sons: if you had educated them, you would
have prepared for them a sad future, for they would have become enemies of Religion and you
would have seen them garroted or exiled; if you had kept them ignorant, you would have seen
them tyrannized over and degraded. I could not consent to it! For this reason I sought for
you a husband that could make you the happy mother of sons who would command and not obey,
who would punish and not suffer. I knew that the friend of your childhood was good, I liked
him as well as his father, but I have hated them both since I saw that they were going to bring
about your unhappiness, because I love you, I adore you, I love you as one loves his own daughter!
Yours is my only affection; I have seen you grow--not an hour has passed that I have not thought
of you--I dreamed of you--you have been my only joy!"

Here Padre Damaso himself broke out into tears like a child.

"Then, as you love me, don't make me eternally wretched. He no longer lives, so I want to be
a nun!"

The old priest rested his forehead on his hand. "To be a nun, a nun!" he repeated. "You don't
know, child, what the life is, the mystery that is hidden behind the walls of the nunnery,
you don't know! A thousand times would I prefer to see you unhappy in the world rather than
in the cloister. Here your complaints can be heard, there you will have only the walls. You
are beautiful, very beautiful, and you were not born for that--to be a bride of Christ! Believe
me, little girl, time will wipe away everything. Later on you will forget, you will love, you
will love your husband--Linares."

"The nunnery or--death!"

"The nunnery, the nunnery, or death!" exclaimed Padre Damaso. "Maria, I am now an old man,
I shall not be able much longer to watch over you and your welfare. Choose something else,
seek another love, some other man, whoever he may be--anything but the nunnery."

"The nunnery or death!"

"My God, my God!" cried the priest, covering his head with his hands, "Thou chastisest me,
so let it be! But watch over my daughter!"

Then, turning again to the young woman, he said, "You wish to be a nun, and it shall be so.
I don't want you to die."

Maria Clara caught both his hands in hers, clasping and kissing them as she fell upon her knees,
repeating over and over, "My godfather, I thank you, my godfather!"

With bowed head Fray Damaso went away, sad and sighing. "God, Thou dost exist, since Thou chastisest!
But let Thy vengeance fall on me, harm not the innocent. Save Thou my daughter!"

CHAPTER LXIII

Christmas Eve

High up on the slope of the mountain near a roaring stream a hut built on the gnarled logs
hides itself among the trees. Over its kogon thatch clambers the branching gourd-vine, laden
with flowers and fruit. Deer antlers and skulls of wild boar, some with long tusks, adorn this
mountain home, where lives a Tagalog family engaged in hunting and cutting firewood.

In the shade of a tree the grandsire was making brooms from the fibers of palm leaves, while
a young woman was placing eggs, limes, and some vegetables in a wide basket. Two children,
a boy and a girl, were playing by the side of another, who, pale and sad, with large eyes and
a deep gaze, was seated on a fallen tree-trunk. In his thinned features we recognize Sisa's
son, Basilio, the brother of Crispin.

"When your foot gets well," the little girl was saying to him, "we'll play hide-and-seek. I'll
be the leader."

"You'll go up to the top of the mountain with us," added the little boy, "and drink deer blood
with lime-juice and you'll get fat, and then I'll teach you how to jump from rock to rock above
the torrent."

Basilio smiled sadly, stared at the sore on his foot, and then turned his gaze toward the sun,
which shone resplendently.

"Sell these brooms," said the grandfather to the young woman, "and buy something for the children,
for tomorrow is Christmas."

"Firecrackers, I want some firecrackers!" exclaimed the boy.

"I want a head for my doll," cried the little girl, catching hold of her sister's tapis.

"And you, what do you want?" the grandfather asked Basilio, who at the question arose laboriously
and approached the old man.

"Sir," he said, "I've been sick more than a month now, haven't I?"

"Since we found you lifeless and covered with wounds, two moons have come and gone. We thought
you were going to die."

"May God reward you, for we are very poor," replied Basilio. "But now that tomorrow is Christmas
I want to go to the town to see my mother and my little brother. They will be seeking for me."

"But, my son, you're not yet well, and your town is far away. You won't get there by midnight."

"That doesn't matter, sir. My mother and my little brother must be very sad. Every year we
spend this holiday together. Last year the three of us had a whole fish to eat. My mother will
have been mourning and looking for me."

"You won't get to the town alive, boy! Tonight we're going to have chicken and wild boar's
meat. My sons will ask for you when they come from the field."

"You have many sons while my mother has only us two. Perhaps she already believes that I'm
dead! Tonight I want to give her a pleasant surprise, a Christmas gift, a son."

The old man felt the tears springing up into his eyes, so, placing his hands on the boy's head,
he said with emotion: "You're like an old man! Go, look for your mother, give her the Christmas
gift--from God, as you say. If I had known the name of your town I would have gone there when
you were sick. Go, my son, and may God and the Lord Jesus go with you. Lucia, my granddaughter,
will go with you to the nearest town."

"What! You're going away?" the little boy asked him. "Down there are soldiers and many robbers.
Don't you want to see my firecrackers? Boom, boom, boom!"

"Don't you want to play hide-and-seek?" asked the little girl. "Have you ever played it? Surely
there's nothing any more fun than to be chased and hide yourself?"

Basilio smiled, but with tears in his eyes, and caught up his staff. "I'll come back soon,"
he answered. "I'll bring my little brother, you'll see him and play with him. He's just about
as big as you are."

"Does he walk lame, too?" asked the little girl. "Then we'll make him 'it' when we play hide-and-seek."

"Don't forget us," the old man said to him. "Take this dried meat as a present to your mother."

The children accompanied him to the bamboo bridge swung over the noisy course of the stream.
Lucia made him support himself on her arm, and thus they disappeared from the children's sight,
Basilio walking along nimbly in spite of his bandaged leg.

The north wind whistled by, making the inhabitants of San Diego shiver with cold. It was Christmas
Eve and yet the town was wrapped in gloom. Not a paper lantern hung from the windows nor did
a single sound in the houses indicate the rejoicing of other years.

In the house of Capitan Basilio, he and Don Filipo--for the misfortunes of the latter had made
them friendly--were standing by a window-grating and talking, while at another were Sinang,
her cousin Victoria, and the beautiful Iday, looking toward the street.

The waning moon began to shine over the horizon, illumining the clouds and making the trees
and houses east long, fantastic shadows.

"Yours is not a little good fortune, to get off free in these times!" said Capitan Basilio
to Don Filipo. "They've burned your books, yes, but others have lost more."

A woman approached the grating and gazed into the interior. Her eyes glittered, her features
were emaciated, her hair loose and dishevelled. The moonlight gave her a weird aspect.

"Sisal" exclaimed Don Filipo in surprise. Then turning to Capitan Basilio, as the madwoman
ran away, he asked, "Wasn't she in the house of a physician? Has she been cured?"

Capitan Basilio smiled bitterly. "The physician was afraid they would accuse him of being a
friend of Don Crisostomo's, so he drove her from his house. Now she wanders about again as
crazy as ever, singing, harming no one, and living in the woods."

"What else has happened in the town since we left it? I know that we have a new curate and
another alferez."

"These are terrible times, humanity is retrograding," murmured Capitan Basilio, thinking of
the past. "The day after you left they found the senior sacristan dead, hanging from a rafter
in his own house. Padre Salvi was greatly affected by his death and took possession of all
his papers. Ah, yes, the old Sage, Tasio, also died and was buried in the Chinese cemetery."

"Poor old man!" sighed Don Filipo. "What became of his books?"

"They were burned by the pious, who thought thus to please God. I was unable to save anything,
not even Cicero's works. The gobernadorcillo did nothing to prevent it."

Both became silent. At that moment the sad and melancholy song of the madwoman was heard.

"Do you know when Maria Clara is to be married?" Iday asked Sinang.

"I don't know," answered the latter. "I received a letter from her but haven't opened it for
fear of finding out. Poor Crisostomo!"

"They say that if it were not for Linares, they would hang Capitan Tiago, so what was Maria
Clara going to do?" observed Victoria.

A boy limped by, running toward the plaza, whence came the notes of Sisa's song. It was Basilio,
who had found his home deserted and in ruins. After many inquiries he had only learned that
his mother was insane and wandering about the town--of Crispin not a word.

Basilio choked back his tears, stifled any expression of his sorrow, and without resting had
started in search of his mother. On reaching the town he was just asking about her when her
song struck his ears. The unhappy boy overcame the trembling in his limbs and ran to throw
himself into his mother's arms.

The madwoman left the plaza and stopped in front of the house of the new alferez. Now, as formerly,
there was a sentinel before the door, and a woman's head appeared at the window, only it was
not the Medusa's but that of a comely young woman: alferez and unfortunate are not synonymous
terms.

Sisa began to sing before the house with her gaze fixed on the moon, which soared majestically
in the blue heavens among golden clouds. Basilio saw her, but did not dare to approach' her.
Walking back and forth, but taking care not to get near the barracks, he waited for the time
when she would leave that place.

The young woman who was at the window listening attentively to the madwoman's song ordered
the sentinel to bring her inside, but when Sisa saw the soldier approach her and heard his
voice she was filled with terror and took to flight at a speed of which only a demented person
is capable. Basilio, fearing to lose her, ran after her, forgetful of the pains in his feet.

"Look how that boy's chasing the madwoman!" indignantly exclaimed a woman in the street. Seeing
that he continued to pursue her, she picked up a stone and threw it at him, saying, "Take that!
It's a pity that the dog is tied up!"

Basilio felt a blow on his head, but paid no attention to it as he continued running. Dogs
barked, geese cackled, several windows opened to let out curious faces but quickly closed again
from fear of another night of terror.

Soon they were outside of the town. Sisa began to moderate her flight, but still a great distance
separated her from her pursuer.

"Mother!" he called to her when he caught sight of her. Scarcely had the madwoman heard his
voice when she again took to flight.

"Mother, it's I!" cried the boy in desperation, but the madwoman did not heed him, so he followed
panting. They had now passed the cultivated fields and were near the wood; Basilio saw his
mother enter it and he also went in. The bushes and shrubs, the thorny vines and projecting
roots of trees, hindered the movements of both. The son followed his mother's shadowy form
as it was revealed from time to time by the moonlight that penetrated through the foliage and
into the open spaces. They were in the mysterious wood of the Ibarra family.

The boy stumbled and fell several times, but rose again, each time without feeling pain. All
his soul was centered in his eyes, following the beloved figure. They crossed the sweetly murmuring
brook where sharp thorns of bamboo that had fallen on the sand at its margin pierced his bare
feet, but he did not stop to pull them out.

To his great surprise he saw that his mother had plunged into the thick undergrowth and was
going through the wooden gateway that opened into the tomb of the old Spaniard at the foot
of the balete. Basilio tried to follow her in, but found the gate fastened. The madwoman defended
the entrance with her emaciated arms and disheveled head, holding the gate shut with all her might.

"Mother, it's I, it's I! I'm Basilio, your son!" cried the boy as he let himself fall weakly.

But the madwoman did not yield. Bracing herself with her feet on the ground, she offered an
energetic resistance. Basilio beat the gate with his fists, with his Mood-stained head, he
wept, but in vain. Painfully he arose and examined the wall, thinking to scale it, but found
no way to do so. He then walked around it and noticed that a branch of the fateful balete was
crossed with one from another tree. This he climbed and, his filial love working miracles,
made his way from branch to branch to the balete, from which he saw his mother still holding
the gate shut with her head.

The noise made by him among the branches attracted Sisa's attention. She turned and tried to
run, but her son, letting himself fall from the tree, caught her in his arms and covered her
with kisses, losing consciousness as he did so.

Sisa saw his blood-stained forehead and bent over him. Her eyes seemed to start from their
sockets as she peered into his face. Those pale features stirred the sleeping cells of her
brain, so that something like a spark of intelligence flashed up in her mind and she recognized
her son. With a terrible cry she fell upon the insensible body of the boy, embracing and kissing
him. Mother and son remained motionless.

When Basilio recovered consciousness he found his mother lifeless. He called to her with the
tenderest names, but she did not awake. Noticing that she was not even breathing, he arose
and went to the neighboring brook to get some water in a banana leaf, with which to rub the
pallid face of his mother, but the madwoman made not the least movement and her eyes remained
closed.

Basilio gazed at her in terror. He placed his ear over her heart, but the thin, faded breast
was cold, and her heart no longer beat. He put his lips to hers, but felt no breathing. The
miserable boy threw his arms about the corpse and wept bitterly.

The moon gleamed majestically in the sky, the wandering breezes sighed, and down in the grass
the crickets chirped. The night of light and joy for so many children, who in the warm bosom
of the family celebrate this feast of sweetest memories--the feast which commemorates the first
look of love that Heaven sent to earth--this night when in all Christian families they eat,
drink, dance, sing, laugh, play, caress, and kiss one another--this night, which in cold countries
holds such magic for childhood with its traditional pine-tree covered with lights, dolls, candies,
and tinsel, whereon gaze the round, staring eyes in which innocence alone is reflected--this
night brought to Basilio only orphanhood. Who knows but that perhaps in the home whence came
the taciturn Padre Salvi children also played, perhaps they sang

    "La Nochebuena se viene,
    La Nochebuena se va." [172]

For a long time the boy wept and moaned. When at last he raised his head he saw a man standing
over him, gazing at the scene in silence.

"Are you her son?" asked the unknown in a low voice.

The boy nodded.

"What do you expect to do?"

"Bury her!"

"In the cemetery?"

"I haven't any money and, besides, the curate wouldn't allow it."

"Then?"

"If you would help me--"

"I'm very weak," answered the unknown as he sank slowly to the ground, supporting himself with
both hands. "I'm wounded. For two days I haven't eaten or slept. Has no one come here tonight?"

The man thoughtfully contemplated the attractive features of the boy, then went on in a still
weaker voice, "Listen! I, too, shall be dead before the day comes. Twenty paces from here,
on the other side of the brook, there is a big pile of firewood. Bring it here, make a pyre,
put our bodies upon it, cover them over, and set fire to the whole--fire, until we are reduced
to ashes!"

Basilio listened attentively.

"Afterwards, if no one comes, dig here. You will find a lot of gold and it will all be yours.
Take it and go to school."

The voice of the unknown was becoming every moment more unintelligible. "Go, get the firewood.
I want to help you."

As Basilio moved away, the unknown turned his face toward the east and murmured, as though praying:

"I die without seeing the dawn brighten over my native land! You, who have it to see, welcome
it--and forget not those who have fallen during the night!"

He raised his eyes to the sky and his lips continued to move, as if uttering a prayer. Then
he bowed his head and sank slowly to the earth.

Two hours later Sister Rufa was on the back veranda of her house making her morning ablutions
in order to attend mass. The pious woman gazed at the adjacent wood and saw a thick column
of smoke rising from it. Filled with holy indignation, she knitted her eyebrows and exclaimed:

"What heretic is making a clearing on a holy day? That's why so many calamities come! You ought
to go to purgatory and see if you could get out of there, savage!"

EPILOGUE

Since some of our characters are still living and others have been lost sight of, a real epilogue
is impossible. For the satisfaction of the groundlings we should gladly kill off all of them,
beginning with Padre Salvi and ending with Doña Victorina, but this is not possible. Let them
live! Anyhow, the country, not ourselves, has to support them.

After Maria Clara entered the nunnery, Padre Damaso left his town to live in Manila, as did
also Padre Salvi, who, while he awaits a vacant miter, preaches sometimes in the church of
St. Clara, in whose nunnery he discharges the duties of an important office. Not many months
had passed when Padre Damaso received an order from the Very Reverend Father Provincial to
occupy a curacy in a remote province. It is related that he was so grievously affected by this
that on the following day he was found dead in his bedchamber. Some said that he had died of
an apoplectic stroke, others of a nightmare, but his physician dissipated all doubts by declaring
that he had died suddenly.

None of our readers would now recognize Capitan Tiago. Weeks before Maria Clara took the vows
he fell into a state of depression so great that he grew sad and thin, and became pensive and
distrustful, like his former friend, Capitan Tinong. As soon as the doors of the nunnery closed
he ordered his disconsolate cousin, Aunt Isabel, to collect whatever had belonged to his daughter
and his dead wife and to go to make her home in Malabon or San Diego, since he wished to live
alone thenceforward, tie then devoted himself passionately to liam-pó and the cockpit, and
began to smoke opium. He no longer goes to Antipolo nor does he order any more masses, so Doña
Patrocinia, his old rival, celebrates her triumph piously by snoring during the sermons. If
at any time during the late afternoon you should walk along Calle Santo Cristo, you would see
seated in a Chinese shop a small man, yellow, thin, and bent, with stained and dirty finger
nails, gazing through dreamy, sunken eyes at the passers-by as if he did not see them. At nightfall
you would see him rise with difficulty and, supporting himself on his cane, make his way to
a narrow little by-street to enter a grimy building over the door of which may be seen in large
red letters: FUMADERO PUBLICO DE ANFION. [173] This is that Capitan Tiago who was so celebrated,
but who is now completely forgotten, even by the very senior sacristan himself.

Doña Victorina has added to her false frizzes and to her Andalusization, if we may be permitted
the term, the new custom of driving the carriage horses herself, obliging Don Tiburcio to remain
quiet. Since many unfortunate accidents occurred on account of the weakness of her eyes, she
has taken to wearing spectacles, which give her a marvelous appearance. The doctor has never
been called upon again to attend any one and the servants see him many days in the week without
teeth, which, as our readers know, is a very bad sign. Linares, the only defender of the hapless
doctor, has long been at rest in Paco cemetery, the victim of dysentery and the harsh treatment
of his cousin-in-law.

The victorious alferez returned to Spain a major, leaving his amiable spouse in her flannel
camisa, the color of which is now indescribable. The poor Ariadne, finding herself thus abandoned,
also devoted herself, as did the daughter of Minos, to the cult of Bacchus and the cultivation
of tobacco; she drinks and smokes with such fury that now not only the girls but even the old
women and little children fear her.

Probably our acquaintances of the town of San Diego are still alive, if they did not perish
in the explosion of the steamer "Lipa," which was making a trip to the province. Since no one
bothered himself to learn who the unfortunates were that perished in that catastrophe or to
whom belonged the legs and arms left neglected on Convalescence Island and the banks of the
river, we have no idea whether any acquaintance of our readers was among them or not. Along
with the government and the press at the time, we are satisfied with the information that the
only friar who was on the steamer was saved, and we do not ask for more. The principal thing
for us is the existence of the virtuous priests, whose reign in the Philippines may God conserve
for the good of our souls. [174]

Of Maria Clara nothing more is known except that the sepulcher seems to guard her in its bosom.
We have asked several persons of great influence in the holy nunnery of St. Clara, but no one
has been willing to tell us a single word, not even the talkative devotees who receive the
famous fried chicken-livers and the even more famous sauce known as that "of the nuns," prepared
by the intelligent cook of the Virgins of the Lord.

Nevertheless: On a night in September the hurricane raged over Manila, lashing the buildings
with its gigantic wings. The thunder crashed continuously. Lightning flashes momentarily revealed
the havoc wrought by the blast and threw the inhabitants into wild terror. The rain fell in
torrents. Each flash of the forked lightning showed a piece of roofing or a window-blind flying
through the air to fall with a horrible crash. Not a person or a carriage moved through the
streets. When the hoarse reverberations of the thunder, a hundred times re-echoed, lost themselves
in the distance, there was heard the soughing of the wind as it drove the raindrops with a
continuous tick-tack against the concha-panes of the closed windows.

Two patrolmen sheltered themselves under the eaves of a building near the nunnery, one a private
and the other a distinguido.

"What's the use of our staying here?" said the private.

"No one is moving about the streets. We ought to get into a house. My querida lives in Calle
Arzobispo."

"From here over there is quite a distance and we'll get wet," answered the distinguido.

"What does that matter just so the lightning doesn't strike us?"

"Bah, don't worry! The nuns surely have a lightningrod to protect them."

"Yes," observed the private, "but of what use is it when the night is so dark?"

As he said this he looked upward to stare into the darkness. At that moment a prolonged streak
of lightning flashed, followed by a terrific roar.

"Nakú! Susmariosep!" exclaimed the private, crossing himself and catching hold of his companion.
"Let's get away from here."

"What's happened?"

"Come, come away from here," he repeated with his teeth rattling from fear.

"What have you seen?"

"A specter!" he murmured, trembling with fright.

"A specter?"

"On the roof there. It must be the nun who practises magic during the night."

The distinguido thrust his head out to look, just as a flash of lightning furrowed the heavens
with a vein of fire and sent a horrible crash earthwards. "Jesús!" he exclaimed, also crossing
himself.

In the brilliant glare of the celestial light he had seen a white figure standing almost on
the ridge of the roof with arms and face raised toward the sky as if praying to it. The heavens
responded with lightning and thunderbolts!

As the sound of the thunder rolled away a sad plaint was heard.

"That's not the wind, it's the specter," murmured the private, as if in response to the pressure
of his companion's hand.

"Ay! Ay!" came through the air, rising above the noise of the rain, nor could the whistling
wind drown that sweet and mournful voice charged with affliction.

Again the lightning flashed with dazzling intensity.

"No, it's not a specter!" exclaimed the distinguido.

"I've seen her before. She's beautiful, like the Virgin! Let's get away from here and report it."

The private did not wait for him to repeat the invitation, and both disappeared.

Who was moaning in the middle of the night in spite of the wind and rain and storm? Who was
the timid maiden, the bride of Christ, who defied the unchained elements and chose such a fearful
night under the open sky to breathe forth from so perilous a height her complaints to God?
Had the Lord abandoned his altar in the nunnery so that He no longer heard her supplications?
Did its arches perhaps prevent the longings of the soul from rising up to the throne of the
Most Merciful?

The tempest raged furiously nearly the whole night, nor did a single star shine through the
darkness. The despairing plaints continued to mingle with the soughing of the wind, but they
found Nature and man alike deaf; God had hidden himself and heard not.

On the following day, after the dark clouds had cleared away and the sun shone again brightly
in the limpid sky, there stopped at the door of the nunnery of St. Clara a carriage, from which
alighted a man who made himself known as a representative of the authorities. He asked to be
allowed to speak immediately with the abbess and to see all the nuns.

It is said that one of these, who appeared in a gown all wet and torn, with tears and tales
of horror begged the man's protection against the outrages of hypocrisy. It is also said that
she was very beautiful and had the most lovely and expressive eyes that were ever seen.

The representative of the authorities did not accede to her request, but, after talking with
the abbess, left her there in spite of her tears and pleadings. The youthful nun saw the door
close behind him as a condemned person might look upon the portals of Heaven closing against
him, if ever Heaven should come to be as cruel and unfeeling as men are. The abbess said that
she was a madwoman. The man may not have known that there is in Manila a home for the demented;
or perhaps he looked upon the nunnery itself as an insane asylum, although it is claimed that
he was quite ignorant, especially in a matter of deciding whether a person is of sound mind.

It is also reported that General J---- thought otherwise, when the matter reached his ears.
He wished to protect the madwoman and asked for her. But this time no beautiful and unprotected
maiden appeared, nor would the abbess permit a visit to the cloister, forbidding it in the
name of Religion and the Holy Statutes. Nothing more was said of the affair, nor of the ill-starred
Maria Clara.

GLOSSARY

abá: A Tagalog exclamation of wonder, surprise, etc., often used to introduce or emphasize
a contradictory statement.

abaka: "Manila hemp," the fiber of a plant of the banana family.

achara: Pickles made from the tender shoots of bamboo, green papayas, etc.

alcalde: Governor of a province or district with both executive and judicial authority.

alferez: Junior officer of the Civil Guard, ranking next below a lieutenant.

alibambang: A leguminous plant whose acid leaves are used in cooking.

alpay: A variety of nephelium, similar but inferior to the Chinese lichi.

among: Term used by the natives in addressing a priest, especially a friar: from the Spanish
amo, master.

amores-secos: "Barren loves," a low-growing weed whose small, angular pods adhere to clothing.

andas: A platform with handles, on which an image is borne in a procession.

asuang: A malignant devil reputed to feed upon human flesh, being especially fond of new-born
babes.

até: The sweet-sop.

Audiencia: The administrative council and supreme court of the Spanish régime.

Ayuntamiento: A city corporation or council, and by extension the building in which it has
its offices; specifically, in Manila, the capitol.

azotea: The flat roof of a house or any similar platform; a roof-garden.

babaye: Woman (the general Malay term).

baguio: The local name for the typhoon or hurricane.

bailúhan: Native dance and feast: from the Spanish baile.

balete: The Philippine banyan, a tree sacred in Malay folk-lore.

banka: A dugout canoe with bamboo supports or outriggers.

Bilibid: The general penitentiary at Manila.

buyo: The masticatory prepared by wrapping a piece of areca-nut with a little shell-lime in
a betel-leaf: the pan of British India.

cabeza de barangay: Headman and tax collector for a group of about fifty families, for whose
"tribute" he was personally responsible.

calle: Street.

camisa: 1. A loose, collarless shirt of transparent material worn by men outside the trousers.

2. A thin, transparent waist with flowing sleeves, worn by women.

camote: A variety of sweet potato.

capitan: "Captain," a title used in addressing or referring to the gobernadorcillo or a former
occupant of that office.

carambas: A Spanish exclamation denoting surprise or displeasure.

carbineer: Internal-revenue guard.

cedula: Certificate of registration and receipt for poll-tax.

chico: The sapodilla plum.

Civil Guard: Internal quasi-military police force of Spanish officers and native soldiers.

cochero: Carriage driver: coachman.

Consul: A wealthy merchant; originally, a member of the Consulado, the tribunal, or corporation,
controlling the galleon trade.

cuadrillero: Municipal guard.

cuarto: A copper coin, one hundred and sixty of which were equal in value to a silver peso.

cuidao: "Take care!" "Look out!" A common exclamation, from the Spanish cuidado.

dálag: The Philippine Ophiocephalus, the curious walking mudfish that abounds in the paddy-fields
during the rainy season.

dalaga: Maiden, woman of marriageable age.

dinding: House-wall or partition of plaited bamboo wattle.

director, directorcillo: The town secretary and clerk of the gobernadorcillo.

distinguido: A person of rank serving as a private soldier but exempted from menial duties
and in promotions preferred to others of equal merit.

escribano: Clerk of court and official notary.

filibuster: A native of the Philippines who was accused of advocating their separation from Spain.

gobernadorcillo: "Petty governor," the principal municipal official.

gogo: A climbing, woody vine whose macerated stems are used as soap; "soap-vine."

guingón: Dungaree, a coarse blue cotton cloth.

hermano mayor: The manager of a fiesta.

husi: A fine cloth made of silk interwoven with cotton, abaka, or pineapple-leaf fibers.

ilang-ilang: The Malay "flower of flowers," from which the well-known essence is obtained.

Indian: The Spanish designation for the Christianized Malay of the Philippines was indio (Indian),
a term used rather contemptuously, the name Filipino being generally applied in a restricted
sense to the children of Spaniards born in the Islands.

kaingin: A woodland clearing made by burning off the trees and underbrush, for planting upland
rice or camotes.

kalan: The small, portable, open, clay fireplace commonly used in cooking.

kalao: The Philippine hornbill. As in all Malay countries, this bird is the object of curious
superstitions. Its raucous cry, which may be faintly characterized as hideous, is said to mark
the hours and, in the night-time, to presage death or other disaster.

kalikut: A short section of bamboo in which the buyo is mixed; a primitive betel-box.

kamagon: A tree of the ebony family, from which fine cabinet-wood is obtained. Its fruit is
the mabolo, or date-plum.

kasamá: Tenants on the land of another, to whom they render payment in produce or by certain
specified services.

kogon: A tall, rank grass used for thatch.

kris: A Moro dagger or short sword with a serpentine blade.

kundíman: A native song.

kupang: A large tree of the Mimosa family.

kuriput: Miser, "skinflint."

lanson: The langsa, a delicious cream-colored fruit about the size of a plum. In the Philippines,
its special habitat is the country around the Lake of Bay.

liam-pó: A Chinese game of chance (?).

lomboy: The jambolana, a small, blue fruit with a large stone.

Malacañang: The palace of the Captain-General in Manila: from the vernacular name of the place
where it stands, "fishermen's resort."

mankukúlan: An evil spirit causing sickness and other misfortunes, and a person possessed of
such a demon.

morisqueta: Rice boiled without salt until dry, the staple food of the Filipinos.

Moro: Mohammedan Malay of southern Mindanao and Sulu.

mutya: Some object with talismanic properties, "rabbit's foot."

nakú: A Tagalog exclamation of surprise, wonder, etc.

nipa: Swamp-palm, with the imbricated leaves of which the roots and sides of the common Filipino
houses are constructed.

nito: A climbing fern whose glossy, wiry leaves are used for making fine hats, cigar-cases, etc.

novena: A devotion consisting of prayers recited on nine consecutive days, asking for some
special favor; also, a booklet of these prayers.

oy: An exclamation to attract attention, used toward inferiors and in familiar intercourse:
probably a contraction of the Spanish imperative, oye, "listen!"

pakó: An edible fern.

palasán: A thick, stout variety of rattan, used for walking-sticks.

pandakaki: A low tree or shrub with small, star-like flowers.

pañuelo: A starched neckerchief folded stiffly over the shoulders, fastened in front and falling
in a point behind: the most distinctive portion of the customary dress of the Filipino women.

papaya: The tropical papaw, fruit of the "melon-tree."

paracmason: Freemason, the bête noire of the Philippine friar.

peseta: A silver coin, in value one-fifth of a peso or thirty-two cuartos.

peso: A silver coin, either the Spanish peso or the Mexican dollar, about the size of an American
dollar and of approximately half its value.

piña: Fine cloth made from pineapple-leaf fibers.

proper names: The author has given a simple and sympathetic touch to his story throughout by
using the familiar names commonly employed among the Filipinos in their home-life. Some of
these are nicknames or pet names, such as Andong, Andoy, Choy, Neneng ("Baby"), Puté, Tinchang,
and Yeyeng. Others are abbreviations or corruptions of the Christian names, often with the
particle ng or ay added, which is a common practice: Andeng, Andrea; Doray, Teodora; Iday,
Brigida (Bridget); Sinang, Lucinda (Lucy); Sipa, Josefa; Sisa, Narcisa; Teo, Teodoro (Theodore);
Tiago, Santiago (James); Tasio, Anastasio; Tiká, Escolastica; Tinay, Quintina; Tinong, Saturnino.

Provincial: Head of a religious order in the Philippines.

querida: Paramour, mistress: from the Spanish, "beloved."

real: One-eighth of a peso, twenty cuartos.

sala: The principal room in the more pretentious Philippine houses.

salabat: An infusion of ginger.

salakot: Wide hat of palm or bamboo and rattan, distinctively Filipino.

sampaguita: The Arabian jasmine: a small, white, very fragrant flower, extensively cultivated,
and worn in chaplets and rosaries by the women and girls--the typical Philippine flower.

santol: The Philippine sandal-tree.

sawali: Plaited bamboo wattle.

sinamay: A transparent cloth woven from abaka fibers.

sinigang: Water with vegetables or some acid fruit, in which fish are boiled; "fish soup."

Susmariosep: A common exclamation: contraction of the Spanish, Jesús, María, y José, the Holy
Family.

tabí: The cry of carriage drivers to warn pedestrians.

talibon: A short sword, the "war bolo."

tapa: Jerked meat.

tápis: A piece of dark cloth or lace, often richly worked or embroidered, worn at the waist
somewhat in the fashion of an apron: a distinctive portion of the native women's attire, especially
among the Tagalogs.

tarambulo: A low weed whose leaves and fruit pedicles are covered with short, sharp spines.

teniente-mayor: Senior lieutenant, the senior member of the town council and substitute for
the gobernadorcillo.

tikas-tikas: A variety of canna bearing bright red flowers.

tertiary brethren: Members of a lay society affiliated with a regular monastic order, especially
the Venerable Tertiary Order of the Franciscans.

timbaín: The "water-cure," and hence, any kind of torture. The primary meaning is "to draw
water from a well," from timba, pail.

tikbalang: An evil spirit, capable of assuming various forms, but said to appear usually in
the shape of a tall black man with disproportionately long legs: the "bogey man" of Tagalog
children.

tulisan: Outlaw, bandit. Under the old régime in the Philippines the tulisanes were those who,
on account of real or fancied grievances against the authorities, or from fear of punishment
for crime, or from an instinctive desire to return to primitive simplicity, foreswore life
in the towns "under the bell," and made their homes in the mountains or other remote places.
Gathered in small bands with such arms as they could secure, they sustained themselves by highway
robbery and the levying of blackmail from the country folk.

zacate: Native grass used for feeding livestock.

NOTES

[1] Quoted by Macaulay: Essay on the Succession in Spain.

[2] The ruins of the Fuerza de Playa Honda, ó Real de Paynavén, are still to be seen in the
present municipality of Botolan, Zambales. The walls are overgrown with rank vegetation, but
are well preserved, with the exception of a portion looking toward the Bankal River, which
has been undermined by the currents and has fallen intact into the stream.

[3] Relation of the Zambals, by Domingo Perez, O.P.; manuscript dated 1680. The excerpts are
taken from the translation in Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands, Vol. XLVII, by courtesy
of the Arthur H. Clark Company, Cleveland, Ohio.

[4] "Estadismo de las Islas Filipinas, ó Mis Viages por Este Pais, por Fray Joaquin Martinez
de Zuñiga, Agustino calzado." Padre Zuñiga was a parish priest in several towns and later Provincial
of his Order. He wrote a history of the conquest, and in 1800 accompanied Alava, the General
de Marina, on his tours of investigation looking toward preparations for the defense of the
islands against another attack of the British, with whom war threatened. The Estadismo, which
is a record of these journeys, with some account of the rest of the islands, remained in manuscript
until 1893, when it was published in Madrid.

[5] Secular, as distinguished from the regulars, i.e., members of the monastic orders.

[6] Sinibaldo de Mas, Informe sobre el estado de las Islas Filipinas en 1842, translated in
Blair and Robertson's The Philippine Islands, Vol. XXVIII, p. 254.

[7] Sic. St. John xx, 17.

[8] This letter in the original French in which it was written is reproduced in the Vida y
Escritos del Dr. José Rizal, by W. E. Retana (Madrid, 1907).

[9] Filipinas dentro de Cien Años, published in the organ of the Filipinos in Spain, La Solidaridad,
in 1889-90. This is the most studied of Rizal's purely political writings, and the completest
exposition of his views concerning the Philippines.

[10] An English version of El Filibusterismo, under the title The Reign of Greed, has been
prepared to accompany the present work.

[11] "Que todo el monte era orégano." W.E. Retana, in the appendix to Fray Martinez de Zuñiga's
Estadismo, Madrid, 1893, where the decree is quoted. The rest of this comment of Retana's deserves
quotation as an estimate of the living man by a Spanish publicist who was at the time in the
employ of the friars and contemptuously hostile to Rizal, but who has since 1898 been giving
quite a spectacular demonstration of waving a red light after the wreck, having become his
most enthusiastic, almost hysterical, biographer: "Rizal is what is commonly called a character,
but he has repeatedly demonstrated very great inexperience in the affairs of life. I believe
him to be now about thirty-two years old. He is the Indian of most ability among those who
have written."

[12] From Valenzuela's deposition before the military tribunal, September sixth, 1896.

[13] Capilla: the Spanish practise is to place a condemned person for the twenty-four hours
preceding his execution in a chapel, or a cell fitted up as such, where he may devote himself
to religious exercises and receive the final ministrations of the Church.

[14] But even this conclusion is open to doubt: there is no proof beyond the unsupported statement
of the Jesuits that he made a written retraction, which was later destroyed, though why a document
so interesting, and so important in support of their own point of view, should not have been
preserved furnishes an illuminating commentary on the whole confused affair. The only unofficial
witness present was the condemned man's sister, and her declaration, that she was at the time
in such a state of excitement and distress that she is unable to affirm positively that there
was a real marriage ceremony performed, can readily be accepted. It must be remembered that
the Jesuits were themselves under the official and popular ban for the part they had played
in Rizal's education and development and that they were seeking to set themselves right in
order to maintain their prestige. Add to this the persistent and systematic effort made to
destroy every scrap of record relating to the man--the sole gleam of shame evidenced in the
impolitic, idiotic, and pusillanimous treatment of him--and the whole question becomes such
a puzzle that it may just as well be left in darkness, with a throb of pity for the unfortunate
victim caught in such a maelstrom of panic-stricken passion and selfish intrigue.

[15] A similar picture is found in the convento at Antipolo.--Author's note.

[16] A school of secondary instruction conducted by the Dominican Fathers, by whom it was taken
over in 1640. "It had its first beginning in the house of a pious Spaniard, called Juan Geronimo
Guerrero, who had dedicated himself, with Christian piety, to gathering orphan boys in his
house, where he raised, clothed, and sustained them, and taught them to read and to write,
and much more, to live in the fear of God."--Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands, Vol.
XLV, p. 208.--TR.

[17] The Dominican friars, whose order was founded by Dominic de Guzman.--TR.

[18] In the story mentioned, the three monks were the old Roman god Bacchus and two of his
satellites, in the disguise of Franciscan friars,--TR.

[19] According to a note to the Barcelona edition of this novel, Mendieta was a character well
known in Manila, doorkeeper at the Alcaldía, impresario of children's theaters, director of
a merry-go-round, etc.--TR.

[20] See Glossary.

[21] The "tobacco monopoly" was established during the administration of Basco de Vargas (1778-1787),
one of the ablest governors Spain sent to the Philippines, in order to provide revenue for
the local government and to encourage agricultural development. The operation of the monopoly,
however, soon degenerated into a system of "graft" and petty abuse which bore heartily upon
the natives (see Zuñiga's Estadismo), and the abolition of it in 1881 was one of the heroic
efforts made by the Spanish civil administrators to adjust the archaic colonial system to the
changing conditions in the Archipelago.--TR.

[22] As a result of his severity in enforcing the payment of sums due the royal treasury on
account of the galleon trade, in which the religious orders were heavily interested, Governor
Fernando de Bustillos Bustamente y Rueda met a violent death at the hands of a mob headed by
friars, October 11, 1719. See Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands, Vol. XLIV; Montero
y Vidal, Historia General de Filipinas, Vol. I, Chap. XXXV.--TR.

[23] A reference to the fact that the clerical party in Spain refused to accept the decree
of Ferdinand VII setting aside the Salic law and naming his daughter Isabella as his successor,
and, upon the death of Ferdinand, supported the claim of the nearest male heir, Don Carlos
de Bourbon, thus giving rise to the Carlist movement. Some writers state that severe measures
had to be adopted to compel many of the friars in the Philippines to use the feminine pronoun
in their prayers for the sovereign, just whom the reverend gentlemen expected to deceive not
being explained.--TR.

[24] An apothegm equivalent to the English, "He'll never set any rivers on fire."--TR.

[25] The name of a Carlist leader in Spain.--TR.

[26] A German Franciscan monk who is said to have invented gunpowder about 1330.

[27] "He says that he doesn't want it when it is exactly what he does want." An expression
used in the mongrel Spanish-Tagalog 'market language' of Manila and Cavite, especially among
the children,--somewhat akin to the English 'sour grapes.'--TR.

[28] Arms should yield to the toga (military to civil power). Arms should yield to the surplice
(military to religious power),--TR.

[29] For Peninsula, i.e., Spain. The change of n to ñ was common among ignorant Filipinos.--TR.

[30] The syllables which constitute the first reading lesson in Spanish primers.--TR.

[31] A Spanish colloquial term ("cracked"), applied to a native of Spain who was considered
to be mentally unbalanced from too long residence in the islands,--TR.

[32] This celebrated Lady was first brought from Acapulco, Mexico, by Juan Niño de Tabora,
when he came to govern the Philippines in 1626. By reason of her miraculous powers of allaying
the storms she was carried back and forth in the state galleons on a number of voyages, until
in 1672 she was formally installed in a church in the hills northeast of Manila, under the
care of the Augustinian Fathers. While her shrine was building she is said to have appeared
to the faithful in the top of a large breadfruit tree, which is known to the Tagalogs as "antipolo";
hence her name. Hers is the best known and most frequented shrine in the country, while she
disputes with the Holy Child of Cebu the glory of being the wealthiest individual in the whole
archipelago.

There has always existed a pious rivalry between her and the Dominicans' Lady of the Rosary
as to which is the patron saint of the Philippines, the contest being at times complicated
by counterclaims on the part of St. Francis, although the entire question would seem to have
been definitely settled by a royal decree, published about 1650, officially conferring that
honorable post upon St. Michael the Archangel (San Miguel). A rather irreverent sketch of this
celebrated queen of the skies appears in Chapter XI of Foreman's The Philippine Islands.--TR.

[33] Santa Cruz, Paco, and Ermita are districts of Manila, outside the Walled City.--TR.

[34] John xviii. 10.

[35] A town in Laguna Province, noted for the manufacture of furniture.--TR.

[36] God grant that this prophecy may soon be fulfilled for the author of the booklet and all
of us who believe it. Amen.--Author's note.

[37] "Blessed are the poor in spirit" and "blessed are the possessors."--TR.

[38] The annual celebration of the Dominican Order held in October in honor of its patroness,
the Virgin of the Rosary, to whose intervention was ascribed the victory over a Dutch fleet
in 1646, whence the name. XXIII; Blair and Robertson, The Philippine Islands, Vol. XXXV, pp.
249, 250.--TR.

[39] Members of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, whose chief business is preaching and teaching.
They entered the Philippines in 1862.--TR.

[40] "Kaysaysay: A celebrated sanctuary in the island of Luzon, province of Batangas, jurisdiction,
of Taal, so called because there is venerated in it a Virgin who bears that name ....

"The image is in the center of the high altar, where there is seen an eagle in half-relief,
whose abdomen is left open in order to afford a tabernacle for the Virgin: an idea enchanting
to many of the Spaniards established in the Philippines during the last century, but which
in our opinion any sensible person will characterize as extravagant.

"This image of the Virgin of Kaysaysay enjoys the fame of being very miraculous, so that the
Indians gather from great distances to hear mass in her sanctuary every Saturday. Her discovery,
over two and a half centuries ago, is notable in that she was found in the sea during some
fisheries, coming up in a drag-net with the fish. It is thought that this venerable image of
the Filipinos may have been in some ship which was wrecked and that the currents carried her
up to the coast, where she was found in the manner related.

"The Indians, naturally credulous and for the most part quite superstitious, in spite of the
advancements in civilization and culture, relate that she appeared afterwards in some trees,
and in memory of these manifestations an arch representing them was erected at a short distance
from the place where her sanctuary is now located."--Buzeta and Bravo's Diccionario, Madrid,
1850, but copied "with proper modifications for the times and the new truths" from Zuñiga's
Estadismo, which, though written in 1803 and not published until 1893, was yet used by later
writers, since it was preserved in manuscript in the convent of the Augustinians in Manila,
Buzeta and Bravo, as well as Zuñiga, being members of that order.

So great was the reverence for this Lady that the Acapulco galleons on their annual voyages
were accustomed to fire salutes in her honor as they passed along the coast near her shrine.--Foreman.
The Philippine Islands, quoting from the account of an eruption of Taal Volcano in 1749, by
Fray Francisco Vencuchillo.

This Lady's sanctuary, where she is still "enchanting" in her "eagle in half-relief," stands
out prominently on the hill above the town of Taal, plainly visible from Balayan Bay.--TR.

[41] A Tagalog term meaning "to tumble," or "to caper about," doubtless from the actions of
the Lady's devotees. Pakil is a town in Laguna Province.--TR.

[42] A work on scholastic philosophy, by a Spanish prelate of that name.--TR.

[43] The nunnery and college of St. Catherine of Sienna ("Santa Catalina de la Sena") was founded
by the Dominican Fathers in 1696.--TR.

[44] The "Ateneo Municipal," where the author, as well as nearly every other Filipino of note
in the past generation, received his early education, was founded by the Jesuits shortly after
their return to the islands in 1859.--TR.

[45] The patron saint of Tondo, Manila's Saint-Antoine. He is invoked for aid in driving away
plagues,--TR.

[46] Now Plaza Cervantes.--TR.

[47] Now Plaza Lawton and Bagumbayan; see note, infra.-- TR.

[48] The Field of Bagumbayan, adjoining the Luneta, was the place where political prisoners
were shot or garroted, and was the scene of the author's execution on December 30, 1906. It
is situated just outside and east of the old Walled City (Manila proper), being the location
to which the natives who had occupied the site of Manila moved their town after having been
driven back by the Spaniards--hence the name, which is a Tagalog compound meaning "new town."
This place is now called Wallace Field, the name Bagumbayan being applied to the driveway which
was known to the Spaniards as the Paseo de las Aguadas, or de Vidal, extending from the Luneta
to the Bridge of Spain, just outside the moat that, formerly encircled the Walled City.--TR.

[49] Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.--TR.

[50] We have been unable to find any town of this name, but many of these conditions.--Author's
note.

San Diego and Santiago are variant forms of the name of the patron saint of Spain, St. James.--TR.

[51] The "sacred tree" of Malaya, being a species of banyan that begins life as a vine twining
on another tree, which it finally strangles, using the dead trunk as a support until it is
able to stand alone. When old it often covers a large space with gnarled and twisted trunks
of varied shapes and sizes, thus presenting a weird and grotesque appearance. This tree was
held in reverent awe by the primitive Filipinos, who believed it to be the abode of the nono,
or ancestral ghosts, and is still the object of superstitious beliefs,--TR.

[52] "Petty governor," the chief municipal official, chosen annually from among their own number,
with the approval of the parish priest and the central government, by the principalía, i.e.,
persons who owned considerable property or who had previously held some municipal office. The
manner of his selection is thus described by a German traveler (Jagor) in the Philippines in
1860: "The election is held in the town hall. The governor or his representative presides,
having on his right the parish priest and on his left a clerk, who also acts as interpreter.
All the cabezas de barangay, the gobernadorcillo, and those who have formerly occupied the
latter position, seat themselves on benches. First, there are chosen by lot six cabezas de
barangay and six ex-gobernadorcillos as electors, the actual gobernadorcillo being the thirteenth.
The rest leave the hall. After the presiding officer has read the statutes in a loud voice
and reminded the electors of their duty to act in accordance with their consciences and to
heed only the welfare of the town, the electors move to a table and write three names on a
slip of paper. The person receiving a majority of votes is declared elected gobernadorcillo
for the ensuing year, provided that there is no protest from the curate or the electors, and
always conditioned upon the approval of the superior authority in Manila, which is never withheld,
since the influence of the curate is enough to prevent an unsatisfactory election."--TR.

[53] St. Barbara is invoked during thunder-storms as the special protectress against lightning.--TR.

[54] In possibility (i.e., latent) and not: in fact.--TR.

[55]

    "For this are various penances enjoined;
    And some are hung to bleach upon the wind;
    Some plunged in waters, others purged in fires,
    Till all the dregs are drained, and all the rust expires."

                                Dryden, Virgil's Aeneid, VI.

[56] "Today shalt thou be with me in paradise."--Luke xxiii, 43.

[57] It should be believed that for some light faults there is a purgatorial fire before the
judgment.

[58] Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth.--Matt, xvi, 19.

[59] Even up to purgatory.

[60] Dream or reality, we do not know whether this may have happened to any Franciscan, but
something similar is related of the Augustinian Padre Piernavieja.--Author's note.

Fray Antonio Piernavieja, O.S.A., was a parish curate in the province of Bulacan when this
work was written. Later, on account of alleged brutality similar to the incident used here,
he was transferred to the province of Cavite, where, in 1896, he was taken prisoner by the
insurgents and by them made "bishop" of their camp. Having taken advantage of this position
to collect and forward to the Spanish authorities in Manila information concerning the insurgents'
preparations and plans, he was tied out in an open field and left to perish of hunger and thirst
under the tropical sun. See Guía Oficial de Filipinas, 1885, p. 195; El Katipunan ó El Filibusterismo
en Filipinas (Madrid, 1897), p. 347; Foreman's The Philippine Islands, Chap. XII.--TR.

[61] The Philippine civet-cat, quite rare, and the only wild carnivore in the Philippine Islands.--TR.

[62] The common crowd is a fool and since it pays for it, it is proper to talk to it foolishly
to please it.

[63] "The schools are under the inspection of the parish priests. Reading and writing in Spanish
are taught, or at least it is so ordered; but the schoolmaster himself usually does not know
it, and on the other hand the Spanish government employees do not understand the vernacular.
Besides, the curates, in order to preserve their influence intact, do not look favorably upon
the spread of Castilian. About the only ones who know Spanish are the Indians who have been
in the service of Europeans. The first reading exercise is some devotional book, then the catechism;
the reader is called Casaysayan. On the average half of the children between seven and ten
years attend school; they learn to read fairly well and some to write a little, but they soon
forget it."--Jagor, Viajes por Filipinas (Vidal's Spanish version). Jagor was speaking particularly
of the settled parts of the Bicol region. Referring to the islands generally, his "half of
the children" would be a great exaggeration.--TR.

[64] A delicate bit of sarcasm is lost in the translation here. The reference to Maestro Ciruela
in Spanish is somewhat similar to a mention in English of Mr. Squeers, of Dotheboys Hall fame.--TR.

[65] By one of the provisions of a royal decree of December 20, 1863, the Catecismo de la Doctrina
Cristina, by Gaspar Astete, was prescribed as the text-book for primary schools, in the Philippines.
See Blair and Robertson's The Philippine Islands, Vol. XLVI, p. 98; Census of the Philippine
Islands (Washington, 1905), p. 584.--TR.

[66] The municipal police of the old régime. They were thus described by a Spanish writer,
W. E. Retana, in a note to Ventura F. Lopez's El Filibustero (Madrid, 1893): "Municipal guards,
whose duties are principally rural. Their uniform is a disaster; they go barefoot; on horseback,
they hold the reins in the right hand and a lance in the left. They are usually good-for-nothing,
but to their credit it must be said that they do no damage. Lacking military instruction, provided
with fire-arms of the first part of the century, of which one in a hundred might go off in
case of need, and for other arms bolos, talibons, old swords, etc., the cuadrilleros are truly
a parody on armed force."--TR.

[67] Headman and tax-collector of a district, generally including about fifty families, for
whose annual tribute he was personally responsible. The "barangay" is a Malay boat of the kind
supposed to have been used by the first emigrants to the Philippines. Hence, at first, the
"head of a barangay" meant the leader or chief of a family or group of families. This office,
quite analogous to the old Germanic or Anglo-Saxon "head of a hundred," was adopted and perpetuated
by the Spaniards in their system of local administration.--TR.

[68] The hermano mayor was a person appointed to direct the ceremonies during the fiesta, an
appointment carrying with it great honor and importance, but also entailing considerable expense,
as the appointee was supposed to furnish a large share of the entertainments. Hence, the greater
the number of hermanos mayores the more splendid the fiesta,--TR.

[69] Mt. Makiling is a volcanic cone at the southern end of the Lake of Bay. At its base is
situated the town of Kalamba, the author's birthplace. About this mountain cluster a number
of native legends having as their principal character a celebrated sorceress or enchantress,
known as "Mariang Makiling."--TR.

[70] With uncertain pace, in wandering flight, for an instant only--without rest.

[71] The chinela, the Philippine slipper, is a soft leather sole, heelless, with only a vamp,
usually of plush or velvet, to hold it on.--TR.

[72] "All hope abandon, ye who enter here." The words inscribed over the gate of Hell: Dante's
Inferno, III, 9.--TR.

[73] "Listening Sister," the nun who acts as spy and monitor over the girls studying in a convent.--TR.

[74] "Más sabe el loco en su casa que el cuerdo en la ajena." The fool knows more in his own
house than a wise man does in another's.--TR.

[75] The College of Santo Tomas was established in 1619 through a legacy of books and money
left for that purpose by Fray Miguel de Benavides, O. P., second archbishop of Manila. By royal
decree and papal bull, it became in 1645 the Royal and Pontifical University of Santo Tomas,
and never, during the Spanish régime, got beyond the Thomistic theology in its courses of instruction.--TR.

[76] Take heed lest you fall!

[77] Ferdinand and Isabella, the builders of Spain's greatness, are known in Spanish history
as "Los Reyes Católicos."--TR.

[78] These spectacular performances, known as "Moro-Moro," often continued for several days,
consisting principally of noisy combats between Moros and Christians, in which the latter were,
of course, invariably victorious. Typical sketches of them may be found in Foreman's The Philippine
Islands, Chap. XXIII, and Stuntz's The Philippines and the Far East, Chap. III.--TR.

[79] "The Willow."

[80] The capital of Laguna Province, not to be confused with the Santa Cruz mentioned before,
which is a populous and important district in the city of Manila. Tanawan, Lipa, and Batangas
are towns in Batangas Province, the latter being its capital.--TR.

[81] "If on your return you are met with a smile, beware! for it means that you have a secret
enemy."--From the Florante, being the advice given to the hero by his old teacher when he set
out to return to his home.

