It gives one a great idea of human communion,--this power of sending these spark-messages thousands
of miles in a second. Far more poetical, too,--is it not?--as well as more practical, than
tying billets under the wings of carrier-pigeons. It is removing so much time and space out
of the way,--those absorbents of spirits,--and bringing mind into close contact with mind.
But when one can read these messages without the aid of machinery, by merely touching the wires,
how much greater does the symbol become!

All mankind are one. As some philosophers express it,--one great mind includes us all. But
then, as it would never do for all minds to be literally one, any more than it would for all
magnetisms to be identical in their modes of manifestation, or for all the rivers, creeks,
and canals to flow together, so we have our natural barriers and channels, our propriums, as
the Swedish seer has it,--and so we live and let live. We feel with others and think with others,
but with strict reservations. That evening among the wires, for instance, brought me into wonderful
intimate contact with a few of the joys and sorrows of some of my fellow-beings; but an excess
of such experiences would interfere with our freedom and our happiness. It is our self-hood,
properly balanced, which constitutes our dignity, our humanity. A certain degree, and a very
considerable degree of insulation is necessary, that individual life and mental equanimity
may go on.

But there may be a degree of insulation which is unbecoming a member of the human family. It
may become brutish,--or it may amount to the ridiculous. In Paris, there was an old lady, of
uncertain age, who lived in the apartment beneath mine. I think I never saw her but twice.
She manifested her existence sometimes by complaining of the romping of the children overhead,
who called her the "bonne femme." Why they gave her the name I don't know; for she seemed to
have no human ties in the world, and wasted her affections on a private menagerie of parrots,
canaries, and poodle-dogs. A few shocks of the electric telegraph might have raised her out
of her desert island, and given her some glimpses of the great continents of human love and
sympathy.

A man who lives for himself alone sits on a sort of insulated glass stool, with a noli-me-tangere
look at his fellow-men, and a shivering dread of some electric shock from contact with them.
He is a non-conductor in relation to the great magnetic currents which run pulsing along the
invisible wires that connect one heart with another. Preachers, philanthropists, and moralists
are in the habit of saying of such a person,--"How cold! how selfish! how unchristian!" I sometimes
fancy a citizen of the planet Venus, that social star of evening and morning, might say,--"How
absurd!" What a figure he cuts there, sitting in solitary state upon his glass tripod,--in
the middle of a crowd of excited fellow-beings, hurried to and fro by their passions and sympathies,--like
an awkward country-bumpkin caught in the midst of a gay crowd of polkers and waltzers at a
ball,--or an oyster bedded on a rock, with silver fishes playing rapid games of hide and seek,
love and hate, in the clear briny depths above and beneath! If the angels ever look out of
their sphere of intense spiritual realities to indulge in a laugh, methinks such a lonely tripod-sitter,
cased over with his invulnerable, non-conducting cloak and hood,--shrinking, dodging, or bracing
himself up on the defensive, as the crowd fans him with its rush or jostles up against him,--like
the man who fancied himself a teapot, and was forever warning people not to come too near him,--might
furnish a subject for a planetary joke not unworthy of translation into the language of our
dim earth.

One need not be a lonely bachelor, nor a lonely spinster, in order to live alone. The loneliest
are those who mingle with men bodily and yet have no contact with them spiritually. There is
no desert solitude equal to that of a crowded city where you have no sympathies. I might here
quote Paris again, in illustration,--or, indeed, any foreign city. A friend of mine had an
atelier once in the top of a house in the Rue St. Honoré. He knew not a soul in the house nor
in the neighborhood. There was a German tailor below, who once made him a pair of pantaloons,--so
they were connected sartorically and pecuniarily, and, when they met, recognized one another:
and there was the concierge below, who knew when he came in and went out,--that was all. All
day long the deafened roar of carts and carriages, and the muffled cry of the marchands des
légumes, were faintly heard from below. And in an adjoining room a female voice (my friend
could never tell whether child's or woman's, for he never saw any one) overflowed in tones
of endearment on some unresponding creature,--he could never guess whether it was a baby, or
a bird, or a cat, or a dog, or a lizard, (the French have such pets sometimes,) or an enchanted
prince, like that poor half-marble fellow in the "Arabian Nights." In that garret the painter
experienced for six months the perfection of Parisian solitude. Now I dare say he or I might
have found social sympathies, by hunting them up; but he didn't, and I dare say he was to blame,
as I should be in the same situation,--and I am willing to place myself in the same category
with the menagerie-loving old lady, above referred to, omitting the feathered and canine pets.

As to my mesmerico-telegraphic discovery, it may pass for what it is worth. I shall submit
it at least to my cousin Moses, as soon as he returns from the South. People may believe it
or not. People may say it may be of practical use, or not. I shall overhaul my terminologies,
and, with the "metaphysical aid" of my cousin, fit it with a scientific name which shall overtop
all the ologies.

Having dressed my new Fact in a respectable and scholarlike coat, I shall let him take his
chance with the judicious public,--and content myself, for the present, with making him a sort
of humble colporteur of the valuable tract on Human Brotherhood of which I have herewith furnished
a few dry specimens.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.

LITERARY NOTICES.

The Life of John Fitch, the Inventor of the Steamboat. By THOMPSON WESTCOTT. Philadelphia:
J.B. Lippincott & Co.

What would not honest Sancho have given for a good biography of the man who invented sleep?
And will not the adventurous pleasure-tourist, who has been jarred, jammed, roasted, coddled,
and suffocated in a railroad-car for a whole night, with two days to sandwich it, on being
deposited in an airy stateroom for the last two hundred miles of his journey, think the man
who invented the steamboat deserving of a "first-rate" life? We well remember the time when
nobody suspected that person, whoever he might be,--and nobody much cared who he was,--of any
relationship to the individual whose memory Sancho blessed, so great was the churning in the
palaces that then floated. But in our present boats this unpalace-like operation has been so
localized and mollified as to escape the notice of all but the greenest and most inquisitive
passengers. And now that we find the luxury of travelling by water actually superior to that
of staying at home on land, we begin to feel a budding veneration for the man who first found
out that steam could be substituted, with such marvellous advantage, for helpless dependence
on the wind and miserable tugging at oars and setting-poles. Who was he? What circumstances
conspired to shape his life and project it with so notable an aim? How did he look, act, think,
on all matters of human concernment? Here comes a book, assuming in its title that one John
Fitch, of whom his generation seems not to have thought enough to paint his portrait, was the
inventor of the steamboat. It professes to be "The Life of John Fitch"; but we are sorry to
say it is rather a documentary argument to prove that he was "the inventor of the steamboat."
As an argument, it is both needless and needlessly strong. We already knew to a certainty that
nobody could present a better claim to that honor than John Fitch. True, the idea did not wait
for him. The engine could not have been working a hundred years in the world without giving
birth to that. But till Watt invented it anew in 1782, by admitting the steam alternately at
both ends of the cylinder, it was too awkward and clumsy to become a practical navigator. Moreover,
though it could pump admirably, it had not been taught to turn a crank. The French assert,
that experiments in steam-propulsion were made on the Seine, by Count Auxiron and Perrier,
in 1774, and on the Saone, by De Jouffroy, in 1782; but we know they led to no practical results,
and the knowledge of them probably did not, for some years, travel beyond the limits of the
French language. There is no satisfactory evidence that a boat was ever moved by steam, within
the boundaries of Anglo-Saxondom, before John Fitch did it, on the 27th of July, 1786. His
successful and every way brilliant experiment on that occasion led directly to practical results,--to
wit, the formation of a company, embracing some of the foremost men of Philadelphia, which
built a small steam-packet for the conveyance of passengers, and ran it during three summers,
ending with that of 1790. The company then failed, and broke poor Fitch's heart, simply because
the investment had not thus far proved lucrative, and they were unwilling to make the further
advances requisite to carry out his moderate and reasonable plans. The only person who ever
claimed, in English, to have made a steamboat experiment before Fitch, was James Rumsey, of
Virginia, who, in 1788, published some testimony to show that he had done it as early as April,
1786, that he had broached the idea, confidentially, two years earlier, and that Fitch might
have received it from one who violated his confidence. Fitch promptly annihilated these pretences
by a pamphlet, a reprint of which maybe found in the Patent-Office Report for 1850. This, and
a contribution to Sparks's "American Biography," by Col. Charles Whittlesey, of Ohio, seem
quite sufficient to establish the historical fact that John Fitch was the father of steam-navigation,
whoever may have been its prophets. Though the infant, with the royal blood of both Neptune
and Pluto in its veins, and a brand-new empire waiting to crown it, fell into a seventeen years'
swoon, during which Fitch died, and the public at large forgot all that he had ever said or
done, its life did not become extinct. It was not created, but revived, by Fulton, aided by
the refreshing effusion of Chancellor Livingston's money. We did not need a new book to make
us more certain of these facts, but we did need a more thorough biography of John Fitch, and,
with great respect for the industry and faithfulness of Mr. Westcott, it is our opinion that
we do still. He has demonstrated that the materials for such a work are abundant, and a glance
at the mortal career of Fitch will show him to be an uncommonly interesting subject.

John Fitch was born in Windsor, Connecticut, in 1743. At the age of five, while his father
was absent from home, courting his stepmother, he heroically extinguished a fire of blazing
flax, which would otherwise have consumed the house, and while he was smarting from his burns
was cruelly beaten by an elder brother, who misapprehended the case of the little boy, very
much as the world did that of the man he became. The domestic discipline he encountered under
the paternal roof was of the severest New England pattern of those days, and between its theology
and its economy he grew out of shape, like a thrifty pumpkin between two rocks. He loved to
learn, but had few books and little schooling. His taste tended to mechanism, and he was apprenticed
to a stingy clock-maker, who obliged him to work on his farm and kept him ignorant of his trade.
Getting his liberty at last, he set up brass-founding, on a capital of twenty shillings, and
made money at it. Then he went into the manufacture of potash, in which he was less successful.
He married a wife who proved more caustic than the potash and more than a match for his patience.
He settled his affairs so as to leave her all his little property in the most manageable shape,
and left her with two children, to seek a separate fortune in the wide world. The war of the
Revolution found him at Trenton, New Jersey, a man of some substance, acquired as a silversmith
and peddler of silver and brass sleeve-buttons of his own manufacture. It made him an officer
and then an armorer in the Continental service. As a fabricator of patriotic weapons, he incurred
the displeasure of his Methodist brethren by working on the Sabbath, and lost his orthodoxy
in his disgust at their rebukes. Towards the close of the Revolution, getting poor in fact
by getting rich in Continental money, he endeavored to save himself by investing in Virginia
land-warrants, went to Kentucky as a surveyor, and became possessed of sixteen hundred acres
of that wilderness. On a second expedition down the Ohio, early in 1782, he fell into the hands
of the savages, in the most melodramatic style, was led captive through the vast forests and
swamps to Detroit, had a very characteristic and remarkable prison-experience under British
authority at Prison Island, was exchanged, and by a sea-voyage reached his home in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, at the close of the same year. Immediately after the establishment of peace,
he formed a company to speculate in Ohio lands, and made extensive surveys for the purpose
of forestalling the best locations. Mr. Westcott's book confuses this portion of his chronology
by misprinting two or three dates, on the 113th page. The hopeful game was spoiled by unexpected
measures of the Confederated government; but Fitch's explorations had deeply impressed him
with the sublime character of the Western rivers, and when, in April, 1785, the thought first
struck him that steam could easily make them navigable upwards as well as downwards, he cared
no more for lands. He had noticed the mechanical power of steam, but had never seen an engine,
and did not know that one existed out of his own brain. This is the less wonderful, seeing
there were only three then in America, and his science extended only to arithmetic. When his
minister showed him a drawing of Newcomen's engine, in "Martin's Philosophy," he was chagrined
to find that his invention had been anticipated in regard to the mode of producing the power,
but he was confirmed in his belief of its availability for navigation. With no better resources
than a blacksmith's shop could furnish, he set himself at work to make a steam-engine to test
his theory. His success is one of those wonders of human ingenuity struggling with difficulties,
moral, financial, and physical combined, which deserve both a Homer and a Macaulay to celebrate
and record them. He was supposed by most people, and almost by himself, to have gone crazy.
If anything, at this day, is more incredible than the feat which he accomplished, it is the
derision with which the public viewed his labors, decried his success, and sneered at the rags
which betokened the honesty of his poverty. To every one who had brains capable of logic, he
had demonstrated the feasibility of his visions. But no amount of even physical demonstration,
then possible, could bring out the funds requisite to pecuniary profit, against the head-wind
of public scorn. It whistled down his high hopes of fortune. At last, dropping the file and
the hammer, he took the pen, determined, that, if others must get rich by his invention, he
would at least save for himself the fame of it. The result of his literary labors was an autobiography
of great frankness and detail, extending to several hundred pages, and embracing almost every
conceivable violation of standard English orthography, with which he seems to have had very
little acquaintance or sympathy. It was placed under seal in the Philadelphia Library, not
to be opened for thirty years. At the expiration of that period, in 1823, the seal was broken,
and the quaint old manuscript, with the stamp of honest truth on every word, stood ready to
reveal what the world is but just beginning to "want to know" about John Fitch. He afterwards
went to Europe to promote his steamboat interests,--to little purpose, --wandered about a few
years, settled in Bardstown, Kentucky, made a model steamboat with a brass engine, drowned
disappointment in the drink of that country, and at last departed by his own will, two years
before the close of the last century. A life so full of truth that is stranger than fiction
ought not to be treated in the Dry-as-dust style, quite so largely as Mr. Westcott has done it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Life Beneath the Waters; or, The Aquarium in America. Illustrated by Plates and Wood-Cuts drawn
from Life. By ARTHUR M. EDWARDS. New York: 1858.

This book has appeared since the notice in our July number of two English works on the Aquarium.
Like so many books by which our literature is discredited, it is a work got up hastily to meet
a public demand, and is deficient in method, thoroughness, and accuracy. There is much repetition
in it, and the observations of its author seem to have been limited to the waters around New
York, and to have extended over but a short period. In spite of these and other minor defects,
it may be recommended as containing much useful information for those just beginning an aquarium
and forming an acquaintance with the sea.

We trust that a misprint in our former notice has not brought disappointment to any of our
readers, by leading them to expose their aquaria to too much sunshine; for the sunshine should
be "not enough" (and not, as it was printed, "hot enough") "to raise the water to a temperature
above that of the outer air."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Exiles of Florida: or the Crimes committed by our Government against the Maroons, who fled
from South Carolina and other Slave States, seeking Protection under Spanish Laws. By JOSHUA
R. GIDDINGS. Columbus, Ohio: Follett, Foster, & Co. 1858.

A cruel story this, Mr. Giddings tells us. Too cruel, but too true. It is full of pathetic
and tragic interest, and melts and stirs the heart at once with pity for the sufferers, and
with anger, that sins not, at their mean and ruthless oppressors. Every American citizen should
read it; for it is an indictment which recites crimes which have been committed in his name,
perpetrated by troops and officials in his service, and all done at his expense. The whole
nation is responsible at the bar of the world and before the tribunal of posterity for these
atrocities, devised by members of its Cabinet and its Congress, directed by its Presidents,
and executed by its armies and its courts. The cruelties of Alva in the Netherlands, which
make the pen of Motley glow as with fire as he tells them, the dragonnades which scorched over
the fairest regions of France after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, have a certain excuse,
as being instigated by a sincere, though misguided religious zeal. For Philip II. and Louis
XIV. had, at least, a fanatical belief that they were doing God service by those holocausts
of his children; while no motive inspired these massacres, tortures, and banishments, but the
most sordid rapacity and avarice, the lowest and basest passions of the human breast.

And so carefully has the truth of this story been covered up with lies, that, probably, very
few indeed of the people of the Free States have any just idea of the origin, character, and
purposes of the Seminole Wars, or of the character of the race against which they were waged.
And yet there is no episode in American history more full of romantic interest, of heroic struggles,
and of moving griefs. We have been taught to believe that these wars were provoked by incursions
of the savages of Florida on the frontier, and, if the truth could not be concealed, that an
incidental motive of our war of extermination against them was to be found in the sanctuary
which the fugitive slaves of the neighboring States found in their fastnesses. The general
impression has been, that these were mainly runaways of recent date, who had made their escape
from contemporary masters. How many of our readers know that for more than three quarters of
a century before the purchase of Florida there had been a nation of negroes established there,
enjoying the wild freedom they loved, mingling and gradually becoming identified with the Indians,
who had made it their city of refuge from slavery also? For the slaveholders of Carolina had
no scruples against enslaving Indians any more than Africans, until it was discovered that
the untamable nature of the red man made him an unprofitable and a dangerous servant. These
Indian slaves fled into the wilderness, which is now the State of Georgia, pushing their way
even to the peninsula of Florida, and were followed, in their flight and to their asylum, by
many of their black companions in bondage. For near seventy-five years this little nation lived
happy and contented, till the State of Georgia commenced the series of piratical incursions
into their country, then a Spanish dependency, from which they were never afterwards free;
the nation at last taking up the slaveholders' quarrel and prosecuting it to the bitter and
bloody end.

This whole story is told, and well told, by Mr. Giddings. And a most touching picture it is.
First, the original evasion of the slaves into that peninsular wilderness, which they reclaimed
as far as the supply of their simple wants demanded. They planted, they hunted, they multiplied
their cattle, they intermarried with their Indian friends and allies, their children and their
children's children grew up around them, knowing of slavery only by traditionary legend. The
original founders of the tribe passed away, and their sons and grandsons possessed their corn-fields
and their hunting-grounds in peace. For many years no fears disturbed their security. Under
the Spanish rule they were safe and happy. Then comes the gradual gathering of the cloud on
the edges of their wilderness, its first fitful and irregular flashes, till it closes over
their heads and bursts upon them in universal ruin and devastation. Their heroic resistance
to the invasion of the United States troops follows, sublime from its very desperation. A more
unequal contest was never fought. On one side one of the mightiest powers on earth, with endless
stores of men and money at its beck,--and on the other a handful of outcasts fighting for their
homes, and the liberties, in no metaphorical sense, of themselves, their wives, and their children,
and protracting the fight for as many years as the American Revolution lasted.

