"Father," said Marie, "try what power there is in the white man's God. Say that you will give
Him your devil-stone if He will save us now."

"The priest may have it," said the Black Beaver, and he uncovered his face and sat up as though
expecting a miracle. And the miracle came. The sun was setting behind them, and in front, somewhat
above the horizon, the clouds parted, forming a circle about a white cross which hung suspended
in the air. They all saw it distinctly, but only for a few moments; then the clouds closed
and the vision vanished. With new hope the little party rowed toward the spot where they had
last seen it, and through the fog they could dimly discern the outlines of the coast--they
were nearing land. A little further on, and a village was visible, which gained a more and
more familiar aspect as they approached. Night settled down before they reached it, but ere
their feet touched the land they had recognized the mission of St. Ignace. The cross was not
a vision. The clouds had parted to show them the great white landmark and sign which Father
Ignatius had raised upon the little knoll.

The next day the Black Beaver unearthed his devil-stone, and fastening a silver chain to it,
was about to carry it away and attach it to the cross, which was already loaded with the gifts
of the little colony; but Marie took it from his hand. "I will give it to the good priest myself,"
she said. "He may see fit to place it on the image of the Virgin in the church."

A few days later Marie placed the coveted stone in Father Xavier's hand; but what was his bitter
disappointment to find that she had marred the exquisite thing by a rude attempt at a delineation
upon it of the vision of the cross. She had carefully chiselled away the milky white layer,
excepting on the crests of some very primitive representations of waves, and within the awkwardly
plain cross in the centre of the gem. All his hopes of cutting a face upon this lovely jewel
were crushed; it was ruined by her unskilful work. Father Xavier was completely master of his
own emotions. He took the stone without remark, and hung it, as Marie requested, about the
neck of the Madonna. Each day as he said mass the sight of the mutilated jewel roused within
him resentful feelings against poor, well-wishing little Marie. He had been very kind to her
since he had first seen the stone in the possession of her father, but now it was worse than
before. He avoided her markedly, for the smile which so annoyed him still lighted her face
whenever she saw him, and there was in it a reproachful sadness which was even more aggravating
than its simple childishness had been.

One day Father Xavier, in turning over his papers, came across an old etching of Venus rising
from the sea. The figure, with its outstretched arms, suggested a possibility to him. He made
a careful tracing of it, took it to the church, and laid it upon the stone. All of its outlines
came within the white cross; there was still hope for the cameo. All that winter Father Xavier
toiled upon it, exhausting his utmost skill, but never exhausting his patience. His chief trial
was in the extreme hardness of the stone, which rapidly wore out his graving tools. At last
it was finished, and Father Xavier confessed to himself, in all humility, that he had not only
never executed so delicate a piece of workmanship, but he had never seen its equal. Every curve
of the exquisite-hued waves was studied from the swell that sometimes swept grandly in from
the lake on the long reef of rocks a few miles above St. Ignace. The form of the goddess was
modelled from his remembrance of the Greek antique. It was a gem worthy of an emperor. What
should he do with it?

As the spring ripened into summer, ambitious thoughts flowered in Père Francis Xavier's soul.
What a grand bishopric this whole western country would make with its unexplored wealth of
mines, and furs, and forest! Why should he be obliged to make reports of the revenue which
his own financiering had secured to the mission, to the head at Montreal? Why should not his
reverence the Lord Bishop Francis Xavier dwell in an episcopal palace built somewhere on these
lakes, with unlimited spiritual and temporal sway over all this country? To effect such a scheme
it would be necessary for him to see both the King of France and the Pope. He was not sure
that even if he could return to Europe immediately, he had the influence necessary in either
quarter, but the cameo was a step in the right direction. Something of the same thought occurred
at the same time to the Bishop of Montreal. Father Xavier's reports showed the mission to be
in a flourishing condition. The first struggles of the pioneer were over. Father Xavier must
not be left in too luxurious a position. The Chevalier La Salle was now fitting out his little
band designed to explore the lakes and follow the Mississippi from its source to the Gulf.
A most important expedition; it would be well that the Jesuit fathers should share in the honors
if it proved successful, and if the little party perished in its hazardous enterprise Père
Francis Xavier could perhaps be spared as easily as any member of his spiritual army.

And so, in the summer of 1679, the Chevalier sailed up the Lac du Dauphin, as Lake Erie was
then called, into the Lac d'Orleans, or Huron, carrying letters in which Père Francis Xavier
was ordered to leave his charge for a time in order to render all the assistance in his power
to the explorers. The Bishop of Montreal could never have guessed with what heartfelt joy his
command was obeyed. Father Xavier was tired of this peaceful life, tired of "the endless wash
of melancholy waves," of the short cool summers, and long white blank of winter; tired of inaction,
of the lack of stimulating surroundings, of the gentleness of Father Ignatius and Marie's haunting
smile. Here, too, might be the very occasion he craved of making himself famous and deserving
of reward as an explorer. It was true that he started as a subordinate, but that was no reason
that he should return in the same capacity. Marie had served the noble guests with pleasant
alacrity, passing the rainbow-tinted trout caught as well as broiled by her own hand, and the
luscious huckleberries in tasteful baskets of her own braiding, and Tontz Main de Fer, the
chivalric companion and friend of La Salle, was moved like Geraint, served by Enid, "to stoop
and kiss the dainty little thumb that crossed the trencher." The salutation was received with
unconscious dignity by little Marie; once only was Père François Xavier annoyed by the absence
of a display of childish pleasure in an ever-ready smile.

History tells how trial and privation of every kind waited on this little band of heroic men;
how hunger, and cold, and fever dogged their steps; how the Indians proved treacherous and
hostile; how, having reached central Illinois, after incredible exertion, they found themselves
in the dead of winter unable to proceed further, and surrounded by tribes incited against them
by some unknown enemy. A fatality seemed to hang over them; suspicious occurrences indicated
that they had a traitor among their number, but he was never discovered. La Salle did not despair
or abandon the enterprise; but when six of his most trusted men mutinied and deserted, he lost
hope, and became seized with a presentiment that he would never return from his expedition.
Father Xavier was his confidant as well as confessor, but he seems not to have been able to
disperse the gloom which settled over the leader's mind. Perhaps he did not endeavor to do
so. Hopeless but still true to his trust, La Salle constructed near Peoria a fort which he
named Crèvecoeur, in token of his despondency and disappointment. Leaving Tontz Main de Fer
in command here with the greater part of his men, he set out with five for Frontenac, on the
2d of March, 1680, intending to return with supplies to take command again of his party, and
to proceed southward. It was at this point that the most inexplicable event of the entire enterprise
occurred. Before the party divided some one attempted to poison the Chevalier La Salle. The
poison was a subtle and slow one, similar in its effects to those used by the Borgia family;
the secret of its manufacture was thought to be unknown out of Italy. Fortunately he had taken
an under or overdose of it, and the effects manifested themselves only in a long illness. He
was too far on his journey from Fort Heartbreak when stricken down to return to it, and was
mercifully received and nursed back to health by the friendly Pottawottamies.

While the leader was lying sick in an Indian lodge, the knightly Tontz, ignorant of the fate
of his friend, was having his troubles at the little fort of Heartbreak. Père François Xavier
had remained with him, and aided him with counsels and personal exertions; he had made himself
so indispensable that he was now lieutenant; if anything should happen to Tontz, he would be
commander. He was secretary of the expedition, drew careful maps, and made voluminous daily
entries in a journal, which was afterward found to be a marvel of painstaking both in the facts
and fictions which it contained. Scanty mention was there of La Salle and Tontz Main de Fer,
and much of Père François Xavier, but it was clear, explicit, depicting the advantages of an
acquisition of this territory to the crown of France in glowing terms, and strongly advising
that the man who had most distinguished himself in the difficulties of its discovery should
be appointed as governor, or baron, under the royal authority.

While Father Xavier was compiling this remarkable piece of authorship, the Iroquois descended
in warlike array upon the somewhat friendly disposed Illinois Indians, in whose midst Fort
Crèvecoeur had been built. The suspicious Indian mind immediately connected the advent of their
enemies with the building of the fort, and regarded the little garrison with distrust. Tontz,
at the instance of Father Xavier, presented himself to their chief, and offered to do anything
in his power to prove his friendly intentions. The chief accepted his services, and sent him
as ambassador to inquire into the cause of the coming of the Iroquois. This mission had nearly
been his last, for Tontz was received with stabs, and hardly allowed to give the message of
the chief. His ill-treatment at the hands of their enemies did not reassure the suspicious
Illinois, who ordered Tontz to immediately evacuate the fort and return with his forces to
the country whence he had come. In his wounded condition such a journey was extremely hazardous,
and it must have been with grave doubts as to his surviving it that Father Xavier took temporary
command of the returning expedition.

It was in the spring of 1681. Father Xavier had been absent nearly two years. Father Ignatius
missed him sadly--all the life and fire seemed have gone out of the mission. Even Marie moved
about her work in a listless, languid way, which contrasted markedly with her once lithe and
rapid movements. They had not once heard from the explorers, and Father Ignatius shook his
head sadly, and feared that he would never see his energetic colleague again. The Black Beaver
had slept through the last months of winter, and, as with the general awakening of spring the
bears came out of their dens, and the snakes sunned themselves near their holes, he too stretched
himself lazily and awoke to a consciousness of what was passing around him. In the first place
something was amiss with Marie. When she came to the wigwam it was not to chat merrily of the
affairs of the mission. She did not braid as many baskets as formerly, and no longer showed
him new patterns in shell mosaic on the lids of little boxes. He was a curious old man, and
he soon drew her secret from her. Marie loved Père François Xavier, and he had gone.

The Black Beaver went down to the mission one evening and had a long talk with Father Ignatius.
He ascertained first that Père François Xavier really meant to return; then, with all the dignity
of an old feudal baron, he offered Marie as a bride for his spiritual son. Very gently the
good Père Ignace explained that Romish priests were so nearly in the kingdom of heaven that
the question of marrying and giving in marriage was not for them to consider. The Black Beaver
went home, told no one of his visit, and for several days indulged in the worst drunken spree
of which he was capable. When he came out of it he announced to his wife and Marie that he
was going away on his annual trip for stores, but that they need not accompany him.

Marie knelt as usual in the little church on the evening of the day on which her father had
gone away. Père François Xavier had replaced the cameo on the Virgin's breast before he went;
it was a safer place than the vault of a bank would have been, had such a thing existed in
the country. There was no one in the island sacrilegious enough to rob the church. Marie had
gazed at the stone each time that she repeated the prayer which he had taught her. She looked
up now, and it was gone.

Half way upon their northward route, Tontz's band were struggling wearily on when they were
met by a solitary Indian, who, though he carried a long bow, had not an unfriendly aspect.
He eyed the little band silently as they passed by him in defile, then ran after them, and
inquired if the Père François Xavier, of Mission St. Ignace, was not of their number. He was
informed that the reverend father had remained a short distance behind to write in his journal,
but that he would soon overtake them; and he was warmly pressed to remain with them if he had
messages for the priest, and give them to him when he arrived; but the Indian shook his head
and passed on in the direction in which they told him he would be likely to meet Father Xavier.
The party halted and waited hour after hour for the priest, but he did not come. Finally two
went back in search, and found him lying upon the sod with upturned face--the place where he
had written last in his journal marked by a few drops of his heart's blood, and the long shaft
of an arrow protruding from his breast. They drew it out, but the arrow-head had been attached
as is the custom in some Indian tribes, by means of a soft wax, which is melted by the warmth
of the body, and it remained in the heart. Father Xavier had been dead some hours. They buried
him where they found him, and proceeded on their march. Tontz recovered on the way. They reached
Michillimackinac in safety, where they were joined two months later by La Salle; and the world
knows the result of his second expedition.

Little Marie learned by degrees to smile again, and in after years married another arrow-head
maker, as swarthy and as shaggy as the Black Beaver. There is no moral to my story except that
of poetic justice. Père François Xavier had sown a plentiful crop of stratagems, and he learned
in the lonely forest that "Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap."

Meanwhile to all but you, my readers, the Crèvecoeur cameo remains as great a mystery as ever.

MISS EUNICE'S GLOVE

By Albert Webster.

I.

