 Many a time has this singular bird felt the shot faintly strike him from the
gun of the fowler beneath, and owed his life to the distance betwixt them.

The trees which form these far-extending wilds are as useful as they are ornamental. It would
take a volume of itself to describe them.

The green-heart, famous for its hardness and durability; the hackea for its toughness; the
ducalabali surpassing mahogany; the ebony and letter-wood vying with the choicest woods of
the old world; the locust-tree yielding copal; and the hayawa- and olou-trees furnishing a
sweet-smelling resin, are all to be met with in the forest betwixt the plantations and the
rock Saba.

Beyond this rock the country has been little explored, but it is very probable that these,
and a vast collection of other kinds, and possibly many new species, are scattered up and down,
in all directions, through the swamps and hills and savannas of ci-devant Dutch Guiana.

On viewing the stately trees around him, the naturalist will observe many of them bearing leaves
and blossoms and fruit not their own.

The wild fig-tree, as large as a common English apple-tree, often rears itself from one of
the thick branches at the top of the mora, and when its fruit is ripe, to it the birds resort
for nourishment. It was to an undigested seed passing through the body of the bird which had
perched on the mora that the fig-tree first owed its elevated station there. The sap of the
mora raised it into full bearing, but now, in its turn, it is doomed to contribute a portion
of its own sap and juices towards the growth of different species of vines, the seeds of which
also the birds deposited on its branches. These soon vegetate, and bear fruit in great quantities;
so what with their usurpation of the resources of the fig-tree, and the fig- tree of the mora,
the mora, unable to support a charge which nature never intended it should, languishes and
dies under its burden; and then the fig- tree, and its usurping progeny of vines, receiving
no more succour from their late foster-parent, droop and perish in their turn.

A vine called the bush-rope by the wood-cutters, on account of its use in hauling out the heaviest
timber, has a singular appearance in the forests of Demerara. Sometimes you see it nearly as
thick as a man's body, twisted like a corkscrew round the tallest trees and rearing its head
high above their tops. At other times three or four of them, like strands in a cable, join
tree and tree and branch and branch together. Others, descending from on high, take root as
soon as their extremity touches the ground, and appear like shrouds and stays supporting the
mainmast of a line-of-battle ship; while others, sending out parallel, oblique, horizontal
and perpendicular shoots in all directions, put you in mind of what travellers call a matted
forest. Oftentimes a tree, above a hundred feet high, uprooted by the whirlwind, is stopped
in its fall by these amazing cables of nature, and hence it is that you account for the phenomenon
of seeing trees not only vegetating, but sending forth vigorous shoots, though far from their
perpendicular, and their trunks inclined to every degree from the meridian to the horizon.

Their heads remain firmly supported by the bush-rope; many of their roots soon refix themselves
in the earth, and frequently a strong shoot will sprout out perpendicularly from near the root
of the reclined trunk, and in time become a fine tree. No grass grows under the trees and few
weeds, except in the swamps.

The high grounds are pretty clear of underwood, and with a cutlass to sever the small bush-ropes
it is not difficult walking among the trees.

The soil, chiefly formed by the fallen leaves and decayed trees, is very rich and fertile in
the valleys. On the hills it is little better than sand. The rains seem to have carried away
and swept into the valleys every particle which Nature intended to have formed a mould.

Four-footed animals are scarce considering how very thinly these forests are inhabited by men.

Several species of the animal commonly called tiger, though in reality it approaches nearer
to the leopard, are found here, and two of their diminutives, named tiger-cats. The tapir,
the lobba and deer afford excellent food, and chiefly frequent the swamps and low ground near
the sides of the river and creeks.

In stating that four-footed animals are scarce, the peccari must be excepted. Three or four
hundred of them herd together and traverse the wilds in all directions in quest of roots and
fallen seeds. The Indians mostly shoot them with poisoned arrows. When wounded they run about
one hundred and fifty paces; they then drop, and make wholesome food.

The red monkey, erroneously called the baboon, is heard oftener than it is seen, while the
common brown monkey, the bisa, and sacawinki rove from tree to tree, and amuse the stranger
as he journeys on.

A species of the polecat, and another of the fox, are destructive to the Indian's poultry,
while the opossum, the guana and salempenta afford him a delicious morsel.

The small ant-bear, and the large one, remarkable for his long, broad, bushy tail, are sometimes
seen on the tops of the wood-ants' nests; the armadillos bore in the sand-hills, like rabbits
in a warren; and the porcupine is now and then discovered in the trees over your head.

This, too, is the native country of the sloth. His looks, his gestures and his cries all conspire
to entreat you to take pity on him. These are the only weapons of defence which Nature hath
given him. While other animals assemble in herds, or in pairs range through these boundless
wilds, the sloth is solitary and almost stationary; he cannot escape from you. It is said his
piteous moans make the tiger relent and turn out of the way. Do not then level your gun at
him or pierce him with a poisoned arrow--he has never hurt one living creature. A few leaves,
and those of the commonest and coarsest kind, are all he asks for his support. On comparing
him with other animals you would say that you could perceive deficiency, deformity and superabundance
in his composition. He has no cutting-teeth, and though four stomachs, he still wants the long
intestines of ruminating animals. He has only one inferior aperture, as in birds. He has no
soles to his feet nor has he the power of moving his toes separately. His hair is flat, and
puts you in mind of grass withered by the wintry blast. His legs are too short; they appear
deformed by the manner in which they are joined to the body, and when he is on the ground,
they seem as if only calculated to be of use in climbing trees. He has forty-six ribs, while
the elephant has only forty, and his claws are disproportionably long. Were you to mark down,
upon a graduated scale, the different claims to superiority amongst the four-footed animals,
this poor ill-formed creature's claim would be the last upon the lowest degree.

Demerara yields to no country in the world in her wonderful and beautiful productions of the
feathered race. Here the finest precious stones are far surpassed by the vivid tints which
adorn the birds. The naturalist may exclaim that Nature has not known where to stop in forming
new species and painting her requisite shades. Almost every one of those singular and elegant
birds described by Buffon as belonging to Cayenne are to be met with in Demerara, but it is
only by an indefatigable naturalist that they are to be found.

The scarlet curlew breeds in innumerable quantities in the muddy islands on the coasts of Pomauron;
the egrets and crabiers in the same place. They resort to the mud-flats at ebbing water, while
thousands of sandpipers and plovers, with here and there a spoonbill and flamingo, are seen
amongst them. The pelicans go farther out to sea, but return at sundown to the courada-trees.
The humming-birds are chiefly to be found near the flowers at which each of the species of
the genus is wont to feed. The pie, the gallinaceous, the columbine and passerine tribes resort
to the fruit- bearing trees.

You never fail to see the common vulture where there is carrion. In passing up the river there
was an opportunity of seeing a pair of the king of the vultures; they were sitting on the naked
branch of a tree, with about a dozen of the common ones with them. A tiger had killed a goat
the day before; he had been driven away in the act of sucking the blood, and not finding it
safe or prudent to return, the goat remained in the same place where he had killed it; it had
begun to putrefy, and the vultures had arrived that morning to claim the savoury morsel.

At the close of day the vampires leave the hollow trees, whither they had fled at the morning's
dawn, and scour along the river's banks in quest of prey. On waking from sleep the astonished
traveller finds his hammock all stained with blood. It is the vampire that hath sucked him.
Not man alone, but every unprotected animal, is exposed to his depredations; and so gently
does this nocturnal surgeon draw the blood that, instead of being roused, the patient is lulled
into a still profounder sleep. There are two species of vampire in Demerara, and both suck
living animals: one is rather larger than the common bat, the other measures above two feet
from wing to wing extended.

Snakes are frequently met with in the woods betwixt the sea-coast and the rock Saba, chiefly
near the creeks and on the banks of the river. They are large, beautiful and formidable. The
rattlesnake seems partial to a tract of ground known by the name of Canal Number-three: there
the effects of his poison will be long remembered.

The camoudi snake has been killed from thirty to forty feet long; though not venomous, his
size renders him destructive to the passing animals. The Spaniards in the Oroonoque positively
affirm that he grows to the length of seventy or eighty feet and that he will destroy the strongest
and largest bull. His name seems to confirm this: there he is called "matatoro," which literally
means "bull-killer." Thus he may be ranked amongst the deadly snakes, for it comes nearly to
the same thing in the end whether the victim dies by poison from the fangs, which corrupts
his blood and makes it stink horribly, or whether his body be crushed to mummy, and swallowed
by this hideous beast.

The whipsnake of a beautiful changing green, and the coral, with alternate broad traverse bars
of black and red, glide from bush to bush, and may be handled with safety; they are harmless
little creatures.

The labarri snake is speckled, of a dirty brown colour, and can scarcely be distinguished from
the ground or stump on which he is coiled up; he grows to the length of about eight feet and
his bite often proves fatal in a few minutes.

Unrivalled in his display of every lovely colour of the rainbow, and unmatched in the effects
of his deadly poison, the counacouchi glides undaunted on, sole monarch of these forests; he
is commonly known by the name of the bush-master. Both man and beast fly before him, and allow
him to pursue an undisputed path. He sometimes grows to the length of fourteen feet.

A few small caymen, from two to twelve feet long, may be observed now and then in passing up
and down the river; they just keep their heads above the water, and a stranger would not know
them from a rotten stump.

Lizards of the finest green, brown and copper colour, from two inches to two feet and a half
long, are ever and anon rustling among the fallen leaves and crossing the path before you,
whilst the chameleon is busily employed in chasing insects round the trunks of the neighbouring
trees.

The fish are of many different sorts and well-tasted, but not, generally speaking, very plentiful.
It is probable that their numbers are considerably thinned by the otters, which are much larger
than those of Europe. In going through the overflowed savannas, which have all a communication
with the river, you may often see a dozen or two of them sporting amongst the sedges before you.

This warm and humid climate seems particularly adapted to the producing of insects; it gives
birth to myriads, beautiful past description in their variety of tints, astonishing in their
form and size, and many of them noxious in their qualities.

He whose eye can distinguish the various beauties of uncultivated nature, and whose ear is
not shut to the wild sounds in the woods, will be delighted in passing up the River Demerara.
Every now and then the maam or tinamou sends forth one long and plaintive whistle from the
depth of the forest, and then stops; whilst the yelping of the toucan and the shrill voice
of the bird called pi-pi-yo is heard during the interval. The campanero never fails to attract
the attention of the passenger; at a distance of nearly three miles you may hear this snow-white
bird tolling every four or five minutes, like the distant convent-bell. From six to nine in
the morning the forests resound with the mingled cries and strains of the feathered race; after
this they gradually die away. From eleven to three all nature is hushed as in a midnight silence,
and scarce a note is heard, saving that of the campanero and the pi-pi-yo; it is then that,
oppressed by the solar heat, the birds retire to the thickest shade and wait for the refreshing
cool of evening.

At sundown the vampires, bats and goat-suckers dart from their lonely retreat and skim along
the trees on the river's bank. The different kinds of frogs almost stun the ear with their
hoarse and hollow-sounding croaking, while the owls and goat-suckers lament and mourn all night
long.

About two hours before daybreak you will hear the red monkey moaning as though in deep distress;
the houtou, a solitary bird, and only found in the thickest recesses of the forest, distinctly
articulates "houtou, houtou," in a low and plaintive tone an hour before sunrise; the maam
whistles about the same hour; the hannaquoi, pataca and maroudi announce his near approach
to the eastern horizon, and the parrots and paroquets confirm his arrival there.

The crickets chirp from sunset to sunrise, and often during the day when the weather is cloudy.
The bete-rouge is exceedingly numerous in these extensive wilds, and not only man, but beasts
and birds, are tormented by it. Mosquitos are very rare after you pass the third island in
the Demerara, and sand-flies but seldom appear.

Courteous reader, here thou hast the outlines of an amazing landscape given thee; thou wilt
see that the principal parts of it are but faintly traced, some of them scarcely visible at
all, and that the shades are wholly wanting. If thy soul partakes of the ardent flame which
the persevering Mungo Park's did, these outlines will be enough for thee; they will give thee
some idea of what a noble country this is; and if thou hast but courage to set about giving
the world a finished picture of it, neither materials to work on nor colours to paint it in
its true shades will be wanting to thee. It may appear a difficult task at a distance, but
look close at it, and it is nothing at all; provided thou hast but a quiet mind, little more
is necessary, and the genius which presides over these wilds will kindly help thee through
the rest. She will allow thee to slay the fawn and to cut down the mountain-cabbage for thy
support, and to select from every part of her domain whatever may be necessary for the work
thou art about; but having killed a pair of doves in order to enable thee to give mankind a
true and proper description of them, thou must not destroy a third through wantonness or to
show what a good marksman thou art: that would only blot the picture thou art finishing, not
colour it.

Though retired from the haunts of men, and even without a friend with thee, thou wouldst not
find it solitary. The crowing of the hannaquoi will sound in thine ears like the daybreak town-clock;
and the wren and the thrush will join with thee in thy matin hymn to thy Creator, to thank
Him for thy night's rest.

At noon the genius will lead thee to the troely, one leaf of which will defend thee from both
sun and rain. And if, in the cool of the evening, thou hast been tempted to stray too far from
thy place of abode, and art deprived of light to write down the information thou hast collected,
the fire-fly, which thou wilt see in almost every bush around thee, will be thy candle. Hold
it over thy pocket-book, in any position which thou knowest will not hurt it, and it will afford
thee ample light. And when thou hast done with it, put it kindly back again on the next branch
to thee. It will want no other reward for its services.

When in thy hammock, should the thought of thy little crosses and disappointments, in thy ups
and downs through life, break in upon thee and throw thee into a pensive mood, the owl will
bear thee company. She will tell thee that hard has been her fate, too; and at intervals "Whip-poor-
will" and "Willy come go" will take up the tale of sorrow. Ovid has told thee how the owl once
boasted the human form and lost it for a very small offence; and were the poet alive now he
would inform thee that "Whip-poor- will" and "Willy come go" are the shades of those poor African
and Indian slaves who died worn out and broken-hearted. They wail and cry "Whip-poor- will,"
"Willy come go," all night long; and often, when the moon shines, you see them sitting on the
green turf near the houses of those whose ancestors tore them from the bosom of their helpless
families, which all probably perished through grief and want after their support was gone.

About an hour above the rock of Saba stands the habitation of an Indian called Simon, on the
top of a hill. The side next the river is almost perpendicular, and you may easily throw a
stone over to the opposite bank. Here there was an opportunity of seeing man in his rudest
state. The Indians who frequented this habitation, though living in the midst of woods, bore
evident marks of attention to their persons. Their hair was neatly collected and tied up in
a knot; their bodies fancifully painted red, and the paint was scented with hayawa. This gave
them a gay and animated appearance. Some of them had on necklaces composed of the teeth of
wild boars slain in the chase; many wore rings, and others had an ornament on the left arm
midway betwixt the shoulder and the elbow. At the close of day they regularly bathed in the
river below, and the next morning seemed busy in renewing the faded colours of their faces.

One day there came into the hut a form which literally might be called the wild man of the
woods. On entering he laid down a ball of wax which he had collected in the forest. His hammock
was all ragged and torn, and his bow, though of good wood, was without any ornament or polish:
"erubuit domino, cultior esse suo." His face was meagre, his looks forbidding and his whole
appearance neglected. His long black hair hung from his head in matted confusion; nor had his
body, to all appearance, ever been painted. They gave him some cassava bread and boiled fish,
which he ate voraciously, and soon after left the hut. As he went out you could observe no
traces in his countenance or demeanour which indicated that he was in the least mindful of
having been benefited by the society he was just leaving.

The Indians said that he had neither wife nor child nor friend. They had often tried to persuade
him to come and live amongst them, but all was of no avail. He went roving on, plundering the
wild bees of their honey and picking up the fallen nuts and fruits of the forest. When he fell
in with game he procured fire from two sticks and cooked it on the spot. When a hut happened
to be in his way he stepped in and asked for something to eat, and then months elapsed ere
they saw him again. They did not know what had caused him to be thus unsettled: he had been
so for years; nor did they believe that even old age itself would change the habits of this
poor harmless, solitary wanderer.

From Simon's the traveller may reach the large fall, with ease, in four days.

The first falls that he meets are merely rapids, scarce a stone appearing above the water in
the rainy season; and those in the bed of the river barely high enough to arrest the water's
course, and by causing a bubbling show that they are there.

With this small change of appearance in the stream, the stranger observes nothing new till
he comes within eight or ten miles of the great fall. Each side of the river presents an uninterrupted
range of wood, just as it did below. All the productions found betwixt the plantations and
the rock Saba are to be met with here.

From Simon's to the great fall there are five habitations of the Indians: two of them close
to the river's side; the other three a little way in the forest. These habitations consist
of from four to eight huts, situated on about an acre of ground which they have cleared from
the surrounding woods. A few pappaw, cotton and mountain-cabbage trees are scattered round them.

At one of these habitations a small quantity of the wourali poison was procured. It was in
a little gourd. The Indian who had it said that he had killed a number of wild hogs with it,
and two tapirs. Appearances seemed to confirm what he said, for on one side it had been nearly
taken out to the bottom, at different times, which probably would not have been the case had
the first or second trial failed.

Its strength was proved on a middle-sized dog. He was wounded in the thigh, in order that there
might be no possibility of touching a vital part. In three or four minutes he began to be affected,
smelt at every little thing on the ground around him, and looked wistfully at the wounded part.
Soon after this he staggered, laid himself down, and never rose more. He barked once, though
not as if in pain. His voice was low and weak; and in a second attempt it quite failed him.
He now put his head betwixt his fore-legs, and raising it slowly again he fell over on his
side. His eye immediately became fixed, and though his extremities every now and then shot
convulsively, he never showed the least desire to raise up his head. His heart fluttered much
from the time he laid down, and at intervals beat very strong; then stopped for a moment or
two, and then beat again; and continued faintly beating several minutes after every other part
of his body seemed dead.

In a quarter of an hour after he had received the poison he was quite motionless.

A few miles before you reach the great fall, and which indeed is the only one which can be
called a fall, large balls of froth come floating past you. The river appears beautifully marked
with streaks of foam, and on your nearer approach the stream is whitened all over.

At first you behold the fall rushing down a bed of rocks with a tremendous noise, divided into
two foamy streams which, at their junction again, form a small island covered with wood. Above
this island, for a short space, there appears but one stream, all white with froth, and fretting
and boiling amongst the huge rocks which obstruct its course.

Higher up it is seen dividing itself into a short channel or two, and trees grow on the rocks
which cause its separation. The torrent, in many places, has eaten deep into the rocks, and
split them into large fragments by driving others against them. The trees on the rocks are
in bloom and vigour, though their roots are half bared and many of them bruised and broken
by the rushing waters.

This is the general appearance of the fall from the level of the water below to where the river
is smooth and quiet above. It must be remembered that this is during the periodical rains.
Probably, in the dry season, it puts on a very different appearance. There is no perpendicular
fall of water of any consequence throughout it, but the dreadful roaring and rushing of the
torrent, down a long rocky and moderately sloping channel, has a fine effect; and the stranger
returns well pleased with what he has seen. No animal, nor craft of any kind, could stem this
downward flood. In a few moments the first would be killed, the second dashed in pieces.

The Indians have a path alongside of it, through the forest, where prodigious crabwood trees
grow. Up this path they drag their canoes and launch them into the river above; and on their
return bring them down the same way.

About two hours below this fall is the habitation of an Acoway chief called Sinkerman. At night
you hear the roaring of the fall from it. It is pleasantly situated on the top of a sand-hill.
At this place you have the finest view the River Demerara affords: three tiers of hills rise
in slow gradation, one above the other, before you, and present a grand and magnificent scene,
especially to him who has been accustomed to a level country.

Here, a little after midnight, on the first of May, was heard a most strange and unaccountable
noise: it seemed as though several regiments were engaged and musketry firing with great rapidity.
The Indians, terrified beyond description, left their hammocks and crowded all together like
sheep at the approach of the wolf. There were no soldiers within three or four hundred miles.
Conjecture was of no avail, and all conversation next morning on the subject was as useless
and unsatisfactory as the dead silence which succeeded to the noise.

He who wishes to reach the Macoushi country had better send his canoe over- land from Sinkerman's
to the Essequibo.

There is a pretty good path, and meeting a creek about three-quarters of the way, it eases
the labour, and twelve Indians will arrive with it in the Essequibo in four days.

The traveller need not attend his canoe; there is a shorter and a better way. Half an hour
below Sinkerman's he finds a little creek on the western bank of the Demerara. After proceeding
about a couple of hundred yards up it, he leaves it, and pursues a west-north-west direction
by land for the Essequibo. The path is good, though somewhat rugged with the roots of trees,
and here and there obstructed by fallen ones; it extends more over level ground than otherwise.
There are a few steep ascents and descents in it, with a little brook running at the bottom
of them, but they are easily passed over, and the fallen trees serve for a bridge.

You may reach the Essequibo with ease in a day and a half; and so matted and interwoven are
the tops of the trees above you that the sun is not felt once all the way, saving where the
space which a newly-fallen tree occupied lets in his rays upon you. The forest contains an
abundance of wild hogs, lobbas, acouries, powisses, maams, maroudis and waracabas for your
nourishment, and there are plenty of leaves to cover a shed whenever you are inclined to sleep.

The soil has three-fourths of sand in it till you come within half an hour's walk of the Essequibo,
where you find a red gravel and rocks. In this retired and solitary tract Nature's garb, to
all appearance, has not been injured by fire nor her productions broken in upon by the exterminating
hand of man.

Here the finest green-heart grows, and wallaba, purple-heart, siloabali, sawari, buletre, tauronira
and mora are met with in vast abundance, far and near, towering up in majestic grandeur, straight
as pillars, sixty or seventy feet high, without a knot or branch.

Traveller, forget for a little while the idea thou hast of wandering farther on, and stop and
look at this grand picture of vegetable nature: it is a reflection of the crowd thou hast lately
been in, and though a silent monitor, it is not a less eloquent one on that account. See that
noble purple-heart before thee! Nature has been kind to it. Not a hole, not the least oozing
from its trunk, to show that its best days are past. Vigorous in youthful blooming beauty,
it stands the ornament of these sequestered wilds and tacitly rebukes those base ones of thine
own species who have been hardy enough to deny the existence of Him who ordered it to flourish
here.

Behold that one next to it! Hark how the hammerings of the red-headed woodpecker resound through
its distempered boughs! See what a quantity of holes he has made in it, and how its bark is
stained with the drops which trickle down from them. The lightning, too, has blasted one side
of it. Nature looks pale and wan in its leaves, and her resources are nearly dried up in its
extremities: its sap is tainted; a mortal sickness, slow as a consumption and as sure in its
consequences, has long since entered its frame, vitiating and destroying the wholesome juices
there.

Step a few paces aside and cast thine eye on that remnant of a mora behind it. Best part of
its branches, once so high and ornamental, now lie on the ground in sad confusion, one upon
the other, all shattered and fungus-grown and a prey to millions of insects which are busily
employed in destroying them. One branch of it still looks healthy! Will it recover? No, it
cannot; Nature has already run her course, and that healthy-looking branch is only as a fallacious
good symptom in him who is just about to die of a mortification when he feels no more pain,
and fancies his distemper has left him; it is as the momentary gleam of a wintry sun's ray
close to the western horizon. See! while we are speaking a gust of wind has brought the tree
to the ground and made room for its successor.

Come farther on and examine that apparently luxuriant tauronira on thy right hand. It boasts
a verdure not its own; they are false ornaments it wears. The bush-rope and bird-vines have
clothed it from the root to its topmost branch. The succession of fruit which it hath borne,
like good cheer in the houses of the great, has invited the birds to resort to it, and they
have disseminated beautiful, though destructive, plants on its branches which, like the distempers
vice brings into the human frame, rob it of all its health and vigour. They have shortened
its days, and probably in another year they will finally kill it, long before Nature intended
that it should die.

Ere thou leavest this interesting scene, look on the ground around thee, and see what everything
here below must come to.

Behold that newly-fallen wallaba! The whirlwind has uprooted it in its prime, and it has brought
down to the ground a dozen small ones in its fall. Its bark has already begun to drop off!
And that heart of mora close by it is fast yielding, in spite of its firm, tough texture.

The tree which thou passedst but a little ago, and which perhaps has laid over yonder brook
for years, can now hardly support itself, and in a few months more it will have fallen into
the water.

Put thy foot on that large trunk thou seest to the left. It seems entire amid the surrounding
fragments. Mere outward appearance, delusive phantom of what it once was! Tread on it and,
like the fuss-ball, it will break into dust.

