The Gentleman's Magazine has stepped forward to occupy this vacant post. Arrangements have
been effected to secure for its pages contributions from gentlemen eminently conversant with
the various branches of historical study, and every endeavour is made to render it a WORTHY
ORGAN AND REPRESENTATIVE OF HISTORICAL AS WELL AS OF ARCHÆOLOGICAL LITERATURE. In its ORIGINAL
ARTICLES, historical questions are considered and discussed; in its REVIEWS, prominent attention
is given to all historical books; its HISTORICAL CHRONICLE and NOTES OF THE MONTH contain a
record of such recent events as are worthy of being kept in remembrance; its OBITUARY is a
faithful memorial of all persons of eminence lately deceased; and these divisions of the Magazine
are so treated and blended together as to render the whole attractive and interesting to all
classes of readers.

Every Number is illustrated by several Plates and Vignettes.

Seven Numbers of the new undertaking are before the public, and present a fair example of what
the work will henceforth be.

The following important subjects have been treated of in some of the recent articles:

History of the first appearance of the Gypsies in Europe.
Curious Deductions from the History of our most common English
  Words, as illustrative of the Social Conditions of our Anglo-Saxon
  and Anglo-Norman forefathers.
Recovery of the long lost Accusation of High Treason made by
  Bishop Bonner against Sir Thomas Wyatt the poet.
Unpublished Letters of Archbishop Land, illustrative of the
  Condition of England in 1640.
Inquiry into the Genuineness of the Letters of Logan of Restalrig,
  on which depends the Historical Question of the reality of the
  Gowrie Conspiracy.
Alleged Confession of Sir Walter Raleigh of his intention to
  retrieve his fortune by Piracy.
Three Papers containing New Facts relating to the Life and
  Writings of Sir Philip Sidney
The Authorship of the fabricated English Mercurie, 1588, long
  esteemed to be the earliest English Newspaper.
Chronicle of Queen Jane.
The Maids of Taunton--Mr. Macaulay and William Penn.
The Banquet of the Dead--Funeral of Francis I.
Two Papers on Windsor Castle in the time of Queen Elizabeth,
  with illustrative Plates.
Documents relating to the Execution of James Duke of Monmouth.
Account of the Funeral of Amy Robsart.
The Price paid to Charles II. for Dunkirk.
Expenses of the Commissioners at the Treaty of Uxbridge.
Unpublished Letters of Dr. Johnson, and of the Man of Ross;
  and Letters of Pope and Lady Wortley Montague.
Notices of the Society of Gregorians alluded to by Pope.
Who wrote Shakspeare's Henry VIII.?
Inaccuracy of the Common Division into Acts of King Lear, Much
  Ado About Nothing, and Twelfth Night.
The Christian Iconography and Legendary Art of the Middle
  Ages; with especial regard to the Nimbus and Representations
  of the Divinity; with many illustrations.
Facts for a New Biographia Britannica, consisting of unpublished
  Documents relating to John Locke, Anne Duchess of Albemarle,
  Nat. Lee, Captain Douglas, Sir S. Morland, Dr.
  Harvey, Dr. A. Johnstone, Betterton, Rowe, Arbuthnot, Dennis,
  and Gilbert West.
Unknown Poem by Drayton.
Minutes of the Battle of Trafalgar.
Memoirs of Jaques L. S. Vincent, a celebrated French Protestant
  writer, of Vincent de Paul, and of Paul Louis Courier.
The Coins of Caractacus.
Memoir of Inigo Jones as Court-Dramatist of James I. and
  Charles I.; with illustations.
Original Letter of Princess Elizabeth to George IV. relating to
  the Duke of Cambridge at Hanover.
History of Rambouillet.
Mediæval Literature of Spain.
Sávitri, an Historical Poem from the Sanscrit.
Injustice of Southey to Mrs. Barbauld.
The Lives of Dr. Chalmers, Southey, Chantrey, Mahomet, Tasso,
  Ochlenschläger, Plumer Ward, and Dr. A. Combe.