     'Question. Did you see any buried alive? 'Answer. I did not
     see any buried alive.

     "Jacob Thompson, (colored), sworn and examined. By Mr.
     Gooch:

     'Question. Were you a soldier at Fort Pillow? 'Answer. No,
     sir, I was not a soldier; but I went up in the fort and
     fought with the rest. I was shot in the hand and the head.

     'Question. When were you shot? 'Answer. After I surrendered.

     'Question. How many times were you shot? 'Answer. I was shot
     but once; but I threw my hand up, and the shot went through
     my hand and my head.

     'Question. Who shot you? 'Answer. A private.

     'Question. What did he say? 'Answer. He said, 'G--d d--n
     you, I will shoot you, old friend.'

     'Question. Did you see anybody else shot? 'Answer. Yes, sir;
     they just called them out like dogs, and shot them down. I
     reckon they shot about fifty, white and black, right there.
     They nailed some black sergeants to the logs, and set the
     logs on fire.

     'Question. When did you see that? 'Answer. When I went there
     in the morning I saw them; they were burning all together.

     'Question. Did they kill them before they burned them?
     'Answer. No, sir, they nailed them to the logs; drove the
     nails right through their hands.

     'Question. How many did you see in that condition? 'Answer.
     Some four or five; I saw two white men burned.

     'Question. Was there any one else there who saw that?
     Answer. I reckon there was; I could not tell who.

     'Question. When was it that you saw them? 'Answer. I saw
     them in the morning after the fight; some of them were
     burned almost in two. I could tell they were white men,
     because they were whiter than the colored men.

     'Question. Did you notice how they were nailed? 'Answer. I
     saw one nailed to the side of a house; he looked like he was
     nailed right through his wrist. I was trying then to get to
     the boat when I saw it.

     'Question. Did you see them kill any white men? 'Answer.
     They killed some eight or nine there. I reckon they killed
     more than twenty after it was all over; called them out from
     under the hill, and shot them down. They would call out a
     white man and shoot him down, and call out a colored man and
     shoot him down; do it just as fast as they could make their
     guns go off.

     'Question. Did you see any rebel officers about there when
     this was going on? 'Answer. Yes, sir; old Forrest was one.

     'Question. Did you know Forrest? 'Answer. Yes, sir; he was a
     little bit of a man. I had seen him before at Jackson.

     'Question. Are you sure he was there when this was going on?
     'Answer. Yes, sir.

     'Question. Did you see any other officers that you knew?
     'Answer. I did not know any other but him. There were some
     two or three more officers came up there.

     'Question. Did you see any buried there? 'Answer. Yes, sir;
     they buried right smart of them. They buried a great many
     secesh, and a great many of our folks. I think they buried
     more secesh than our folks.

     'Question. How did they bury them? 'Answer. They buried the
     secesh over back of the fort, all except those on Fort hill;
     them they buried up on top of the hill where the gunboats
     shelled them.

     'Question. Did they bury any alive? 'Answer. I heard the
     gunboat men say they dug two out who were alive.

     'Question. You did not see them? 'Answer. No, sir.

     'What company did you fight with? 'Answer. I went right into
     the fort and fought there.

     'Question. Were you a slave or a free man? 'Answer. I was a
     slave.

     'Question. Where were you raised? 'Answer. In old Virginia.

     'Question. Who was your master? 'Answer. Colonel Hardgrove.

     'Question. Where did you live? 'Answer. I lived three miles
     the other side of Brown's mills.

     'Question. How long since you lived with him? 'Answer. I
     went home once and staid with him a while, but he got to
     cutting up and I came away again.

     'Question. What did you do before you went into the fight?
     'Answer. I was cooking for Co. K, of Illinois cavalry; I
     cooked for that company nearly two years.

     'Question. What white officers did you know in our army?
     'Answer. I knew Captain Meltop and Colonel Ransom; and I
     cooked at the hotel at Fort Pillow, and Mr. Nelson kept it.
     I and Johnny were cooking together. After they shot me
     through the hand and head, they beat up all this part of my
     head (the side of his head) with the breach of their guns. In Mississippi.

     'Question. Were you in the fight at Fort Pillow? 'Answer.
     Yes, sir.

     'Question. Describe what you saw done there. 'Answer. Most
     all the men that were killed on our side were killed after
     the fight was over. They called them out and shot them down.
     Then they put some in the houses and shut them up, and then
     burned the houses.

     'Question. Did you see them burn? 'Answer. Yes, sir.

     'Question. Were any of them alive? 'Answer. Yes, sir; they
     were wounded, and could not walk. They put them in the
     houses, and then burned the houses down.

     'Question. Do you know they were in there? 'Answer. Yes,
     sir; I went and looked in there.

     'Question. Do you know they were in there when the house was
     burned? 'Answer. Yes, sir; I heard them hallooing there when
     the houses were burning.

     'Question. Are you sure they were wounded men, and not dead,
     when they were put in there? 'Answer. Yes, sir; they told
     them they were going to have the doctor see them, and then
     put them in there and shut them up, and burned them.

     'Question. Who set the house on fire? 'Answer. I saw a rebel
     soldier take some grass and lay it by the door, and set it
     on fire. The door was pine plank, and it caught easy.

     'Question. Was the door fastened up? 'Answer. Yes, sir; it
     was barred with one of those wide bolts.

     "James Walls, sworn and examined. By Mr. Gooch:

     'Question. To what company did you belong? 'Answer. Company
     E, 13th Tennessee cavalry.

     'Question. Under what officers did you serve? 'Answer. I was
     under Major Bradford and Captain Potter.

     'Question. Were you in the fight at Fort Pillow? 'Answer.
     Yes, sir.

     'Question. State what you saw there of the fight, and what
     was done after the place was captured. 'Answer. We fought
     them for some six or eight hours in the fort, and when they
     charged, our men scattered and ran under the hill; some
     turned back and surrendered, and were shot. After the flag
     of truce came in I went down to get some water. As I was
     coming back I turned sick, and laid down behind a log. The
     secesh charged, and after they came over I saw one go a good
     ways ahead of the others. One of our men made to him and
     threw down his arms. The bullets were flying so thick there
     I thought I could not live there, so I threw down my arms
     and surrendered. He did not shoot me then, but as I turned
     around he or some other one shot me in the back.

     'Question. Did they say anything while they were shooting?
     'Answer. All I heard was, 'Shoot him, shoot him!' 'Yonder
     goes one!' 'Kill him, kill him!' That is about all I heard.

     'Question. How many do you suppose you saw shot after they
     surrendered? 'Answer. I did not see but two or three shot
     around me. One of the boys of our company, named Taylor, ran
     up there, and I saw him shot and fall. Then another was shot
     just before me, like--shot down after he threw down his
     arms.

     'Question. Those were white men? 'Answer. Yes, sir. I saw
     them make lots of niggers stand up, and then they shot them
     down like hogs. The next morning I was lying around there
     waiting for the boat to come up. The secesh would be prying
     around there, and would come to a nigger and say, 'You ain't
     dead are you?' They would not say anything, and then the
     secesh would get down off their horses, prick them in their
     sides, and say, 'D--n you, you aint dead; get up.' Then they
     would make them get up on their knees, when they would shoot
     them down like hogs.

     'Question. Do you know of their burning any buildings?
     'Answer. I could hear them tell them to stick torches all
     around, and they fired all the buildings.

     'Question. Do you know whether any of our men were in the
     buildings when they were burned? 'Answer. Some of our men
     said some were burned; I did not see it, or know it to be so
     myself.

     'Question. How did they bury them--white and black together?
     'Answer. I don't know about the burying; I did not see any
     buried.

     'Question. How many negroes do you suppose were killed after
     the surrender? 'Answer. There were hardly any killed before
     the surrender. I reckon as many as 200 were killed after the
     surrender, out of about 300 that were there.

     Question. Did you see any rebel officers about while this
     shooting was going on? 'Answer. I do not know as I saw any
     officers about when they were shooting the negroes. A
     captain came to me a few minutes after I was shot; he was
     close by me when I was shot.

     'Question. Did he try to stop the shooting? 'Answer. I did
     not hear a word of their trying to stop it. After they were
     shot down, he told them not to shoot them any more. I begged
     him not to let them shoot me again, and he said they would
     not. One man, after he was shot down, was shot again. After
     I was shot down, the man I surrendered to went around the
     tree I was against and shot a man, and then came around to
     me again and wanted my pocket-book. I handed it up to him,
     and he saw my watch-chain and made a grasp at it, and got
     the watch and about half the chain. He took an old Barlow
     knife I had in my pocket. It was not worth five cents; was
     of no account at all, only to cut tobacco with.'

     "Nathan G. Fulks, sworn and examined. By Mr. Gooch:

     'Question. To what company and regiment do you belong?
     'Answer. To Company D, 13th Tennessee cavalry.

     'Question. Where are you from? 'Answer. About twenty miles
     from Columbus, Tennessee.

     'Question. How long have you been in the service? 'Answer.
     Five months, the 1st of May.

     'Question. Were you at Fort Pillow at the time of the fight
     there? Answer. Yes, sir.

     'Question. Will you state what happened to you there?
     'Answer. I was at the corner of the fort when they fetched
     in a flag for a surrender. Some of them said the major stood
     a while, and then said he would not surrender. They
     continued to fight a while; and after a time the major
     started and told us to take care of ourselves, and I and
     twenty more men broke for the hollow. They ordered us to
     halt, and some of them said, 'God d--n 'em, kill 'em!' I
     said, 'I have surrendered.' I had thrown my gun away then. I
     took off my cartridge-box and gave it to one of them, and
     said, 'Don't shoot me;' but they did shoot me, and hit just
     about where the shoe comes up on my leg. I begged them not
     to shoot me, and he said,' God d--n you, you fight with the
     niggers, and we will kill the last one of you!' Then they
     shot me in the thick of the thigh, and I fell; and one set
     out to shoot me again, when another one said, 'Don't shoot
     the white fellows any more.

     'Question. Did you see any person shot besides yourself?
     'Answer. I didn't see them shot. I saw one of our fellows
     dead by me.

     'Question. Did you see any buildings burned? 'Answer. Yes,
     sir. While I was in the major's headquarters they commenced
     burning the buildings, and I begged one of them to take me
     out and not let us burn there; and he said, 'I am hunting up
     a piece of yellow flag for you.' I think we would have
     whipped them if the flag of truce had not come in. We would
     have whipped them if we had not let them get the dead-wood
     on us. I was told that they made their movement while the
     flag of truce was in. I did not see it myself, because I
     had sat down, as I had been working so hard.

     'Question. How do you know they made their movement while
     the flag of truce was in? 'Answer. The men that were above
     said so. The rebs are bound to take every advantage of us. I
     saw two more white men close to where I was lying. That
     makes three dead ones, and myself wounded."

Later on during the war the policy of massacring was somewhat abated, that is it was not done
on the battle-field. The humanity of the confederates in Virginia permitted them to take their
black prisoners to the rear. About a hundred soldiers belonging to the 7th Phalanx Regiment,
with several of their white officers, were captured at Fort Gilmer on the James River, Va.,
and taken to Richmond in September, 1864. The following account is given of their treatment
in the record of the Regiment:

     "The following interesting sketches of prison-life, as
     experienced by two officers of the regiment, captured at
     Fort Gilmer, have been kindly furnished. The details of the
     sufferings of the enlisted men captured with them we shall
     never know, for few of them ever returned to tell the sad
     story.

     "'An escort was soon formed to conduct the prisoners to
     Richmond, some seven or eight miles distant, and the kinder
     behavior of that part of the guard which had participated in
     the action was suggestive of the freemasonry that exists
     between brave fellows to whatever side belonging. On the
     road the prisoners were subjected by every passer-by, to
     petty insults, the point in every case, more or less
     obscene, being the color of their skin. The solitary
     exception, curiously enough, being a nymph du pave in the
     suburbs of the town.[30]

     "'About dusk the prisoners reached the notorious Libby,
     where the officers took leave of their enlisted
     comrades--from most of them forever. The officers were then
     searched and put collectively in a dark hole, whose purpose
     undoubtedly was similar to that of the 'Ear of Dionysius.'
     In the morning, after being again searched, they were placed
     among the rest of the confined officers, among whom was
     Capt. Cook, of the Ninth, taken a few weeks previously at
     Strawberry Plains. Some time before, the confederates had
     made a great haul on the Weldon Railroad, and the prison was
     getting uncomfortably full of prisoners and--vermin. After a
     few days sojourn in Libby, the authorities prescribed a
     change of air, and the prisoners were packed into box and
     stock cars and rolled to Salisbury, N. C. The comforts of
     this two day's ride are remembered as strikingly similar to
     those of Mr. Hog from the West to the Eastern market before
     the invention of the S. F. P. C. T. A.

     "'At Salisbury the prisoners were stored in the third story
     of an abandoned tobacco factory, occupied on the lower
     floors by political prisoners, deserters, thieves and spies,
     who during the night made an attempt on the property of the
     new-comers, but were repulsed after a pitched battle. In the
     morning the Post-Commandant ordered the prisoners to some
     unused negro quarters in another part of the grounds,
     separated from the latter by a line of sentries. During the
     week train-loads of prisoners--enlisted men--arrived and
     were corralled in the open grounds. The subsequent
     sufferings of these men are known to the country, a parallel
     to those of Andersonville, as the eternal infamy of Wirtz is
     shared by his confrere at Salisbury--McGee.

     "'The weakness, and still more, the appalling ferocity of
     the guards, stimulated the desire to escape; but when this
     had become a plan it was discovered, and the commissioned
     prisoners were at once hurried off to Danville, Va., and
     there assigned the two upper floors of an abandoned tobacco
     warehouse, which formed one side of an open square. Here an
     organization into messes was effected, from ten to eighteen
     in each--to facilitate the issue of rations. The latter
     consisted of corn-bread and boiled beef, but gradually the
     issues of meat became like angels' visits, and then for
     several months ceased altogether. It was the art of feeding
     as practised by the Hibernian on his horse--only their
     exchange deprived the prisoners of testing the one straw per
     day.

     "Among the democracy of hungry bellies there were a few
     aristocrats, with a Division General of the Fifth Corps as
     Grand Mogul, whose Masonic or family connections in the
     South procured them special privileges. On the upper floor
     these envied few erected a cooking stove, around which they
     might be found at all hours of the day, preparing savory
     dishes, while encircled by a triple and quadruple row of
     jealous noses, eagerly inhailing the escaping vapors, so
     conducive to day-dreams of future banquets. The social
     equilibrium was, however, bi-diurnally restored by a common
     pursuit--a general warfare under the black flag against a
     common enemy, as insignificant individually as he was
     collectively formidable--an insect, in short, whose
     domesticity on the human body is, according to some
     naturalists, one of the differences between our species and
     the rest of creation. This operation, technically,
     'skirmishing,' happened twice a day, according as the sun
     illumined the east or west sides of the apartments, along
     which the line was deployed in its beams.

     "Eating, sleeping, smelling and skirmishing formed the
     routine of prison-life, broken once in a while by a walk,
     under escort, to the Dan river, some eighty yards distant,
     for a water supply. Generally, some ten or twelve prisoners
     with buckets were allowed to go at once, and this
     circumstance, together with the fact that the guard for all
     the prisons in town were mounted in the open square in
     front, excited the first idea of escape. According to high
     diplomatic authority, empty stomachs are conducive to
     ingenuity, so the idea soon became a plan and a conspiracy.
     While the new guard had stacked arms in the open square
     preparatory to mounting, some ten or twelve officers, under
     the lead of Col. Ralston, the powerful head of some New York
     regiment, were to ask for exit under pretense of getting
     water, and then to overpower the opposing sentries, while
     the balance of the prisoners, previously drawn up in line at
     the head of the short staircase leading direct to the exit
     door, were to rush down into the square, seize the stacked
     arms and march through the Confederacy to the Union
     lines--perhaps!

     "'Among the ten or twelve pseudo-water-carriers--the forlorn
     hope--were Col. Ralston, Capt. Cook, of the Ninth, and one
     or two of the Seventh--Capt. Weiss and Lieut. Spinney. On
     the guard opening the door for egress, Col. Ralston and one
     of the Seventh threw themselves on the first man, a powerful
     six-footer, and floored him. At the same moment, however,
     another guard with great presence of mind, slammed the door
     and turned the key, and that before five officers could
     descend the short staircase. The attempt was now a failure.
     One of the guards on the outside of the building took
     deliberate aim through the open window at Col. Ralston, who
     was still engaged with the struggling fellow, and shot him
     through the bowels. Col. Ralston died a lingering and
     painful death after two or three days. Less true bravery
     than his has been highly sung in verse.

     "'This attempt could not but sharpen the discipline of the
     prison, but soon the natural humanity of the commandant,
     Col. Smith, now believed to be Chief Engineer of the
     Baltimore Bridge Company, asserted itself, and things went
     on as before. Two incidents may, however, be mentioned in
     this connection, whose asperities time has removed, leaving
     nothing but their salient grotesque features.

     "'Immediately after the occurrence, an unlimited supply of
     dry-salted codfish was introduced. This being the first
     animal food for weeks, was greedily devoured in large
     quantities, mostly raw--producing a raging thirst. The water
     supply was now curtailed to a few bucketsful, but even these
     few drops of the precious fluid were mostly wasted in the
     melee for their possession. The majority of the
     contestants retired disappointed to muse on the comforts of
     the Sahara Desert, and as the stories about tapping camels
     recurred to them, suggestive glances were cast at the more
     fortunate rivals. After a few days, conspicuous for the
     sparing enjoyment of salt cod, the water supply was ordered
     unlimited. An immediate 'corner' in the Newfoundland staple
     took place, the stock being actively absorbed by bona fide
     investors, who found that it bore watering with impunity.

       *       *       *       *

     "'At the beginning of February, 1865, thirty boxes of
     provisions, etc., from friends in the North arrived for the
     prisoners. The list of owners was anxiously scanned and the
     lucky possessor would not have exchanged for the capital
     prize in the Havana lottery. The poor fellows of the
     Seventh were among the fortunate, and from that day none
     knew hunger more.

     "'With the advent of the boxes came the dawn of a brighter
     day. Cartels of exchange were talked about, and by the
     middle of February the captives found themselves on the rail
     for Richmond. The old Libby appeared much less gloomy than
     on first acquaintance, the rays of hope throwing a halo
     about everywhere. Many asked and obtained the liberty of the
     town to lay in a supply of those fine brands of tobacco for
     which Richmond is famous. In a few days the preliminaries to
     exchange were completed, and on the 22d of
     February--Washington's birthday--the captives also stepped
     into a new life under the old flag."

     "Captain Sherman, of Co. C., gives the following account:

     "'Further resistence being useless, and having expressed our
     willingness to surrender, we were invited into the fort. As
     I stepped down from the parapet I was immediately accosted
     by one of the so-called F. F. V.'s, whose smiling
     countenance and extended hand led me to think I was
     recognized as an acquaintance. My mind was soon disabused of
     that idea, however, for the next instant he had pulled my
     watch from its pocket, with the remark, 'what have you
     there?' Quick as thought, and before he could realize the
     fact, I had seized and recovered the watch, while he held
     only a fragment of the chain, and placing it in an inside
     pocket, buttoned my coat and replied, 'that is my watch and
     you cannot have it.'

     "'Just then I discovered Lieut. Ferguson was receiving a
     good deal of attention--a crowd having gathered about
     him--and the next moment saw his fine new hat had been
     appropriated by one of the rebel soldiers, and he stood
     hatless. Seeing one of the rebel officers with a Masonic
     badge on his coat, Lieut. F. made himself known as a brother
     Mason, and appealed to him for redress. The officer quickly
     responded and caused the hat to be returned to its owner,
     only to be again stolen, and the thief made to give it up as
     before.

     "'In a little while we (seven officers and eighty-five
     enlisted men) were formed in four ranks, and surrounded by a
     guard, continued the march 'on to Richmond,' but under very
     different circumstances from what we had flattered ourselves
     would be the case, when only two or three hours before our
     brigade-commander had remarked, as he rode by the regiment,
     that we would certainly be in Richmond that night. We met a
     great many civilians, old and young, on their way to the
     front, as a general alarm had been sounded in the city, and
     all who could carry arms had been ordered to report for duty
     in the intrenchments. After a few miles march we halted for
     a rest, but were not allowed to sit down, as I presume the
     guards thought we could as well stand as they. Here a squad
     of the Richmond Grays, the elite of the city, came up and
     accosted us with all manner of vile epithets. One of the
     most drunken and boisterous approached within five or six
     feet of me, and with the muzzle of his rifle within two feet
     of my face swore he would shoot me. Fearless of
     consequences, and feeling that immediate death even could
     not be worse than slow torture by starvation, to which I
     knew that so many of our soldiers had been subjected, and
     remembering that the Confederate Congress had declared
     officers of colored troops outlaws, I replied, as my eyes
     met his, 'shoot if you dare.' Instead of carrying out his
     threat he withdrew his aim and staggered on. Here Lieut.
     Ferguson lost his hat, which had been already twice stolen
     and recovered. One of the rebs came up behind him and taking
     the hat from his head replaced it with his own and ran off.
     The lieutenant consoled himself with the reflection that at
     last he had a hat no one would steal.

     "'At about 7 P. M. we arrived at Libby Prison and were
     separated from the enlisted men, who, we afterward learned,
     suffered untold hardships, to which many of them succumbed.
     Some were claimed as slaves by men who had never known them;
     others denied fuel and shelter through the winter, and
     sometimes water with which to quench their thirst; the sick
     and dying neglected or mal-treated and even murdered by
     incompetent and fiendish surgeons; without rations for days
     together; shot at without the slightest reason or only to
     gratify the caprice of the guards,--all of which harrowing
     details were fully corroborated by the few emaciated wrecks
     that survived.

     "'We were marched inside the prison, searched, and what
     money we had taken from us. I was allowed to retain
     pocket-book, knife and watch. Our names were recorded and we
     were told to follow the sergeant. Now, I thought, the
     question will be decided whether we are to go up stairs
     where we knew the officers were quartered, or be confined in
     the cells below. As we neared the corner of the large room
     and I saw the sergeant directing his steps to the stairs
     leading down, I thought it had been better had we fallen on
     the battle-field. He led the way down to a cell, and as we
     passed in barred and locked the door and left us in
     darkness. Here, without rations, the bare stone floor for a
     bed, the dampness trickling down the walls on either side,
     seven of us were confined in a close room about seven feet
     by nine. It was a long night, but finally morning dawned and
     as a ray of light shone through the little barred window
     above our heads we thanked God we were not in total
     darkness. About 9 A. M. rations, consisting of bread and
     meat, were handed in, and being divided into seven parts,
     were drawn for by lot. About noon we were taken from the
     cell and put in with the other officers. Here we met Capt.
     Cook, of the Ninth Regiment, who had been captured about a
     month previous while reconnoitering the enemy's line.

     "'We were now in a large room, perhaps forty by ninety feet,
     with large windows, entirely destitute of glass. No blankets
     nor anything to sit or lie upon except the floor, and at
     night when we lay down the floor was literally covered.

     "'About the middle of the second night we were all hurriedly
     marched out and packed in filthy box-cars--like sardines,
     for there was not room for all to sit down--for an unknown
     destination. After a slow and tedious ride we arrived at
     Salisbury, N. C. When we arrived there were but few
     prisoners, and for two or three days we received fair
     rations of bread, bean soup and a little meat. This did not
     last long, for as the number of prisoners increased our
     rations were diminished. There were four old log houses
     within the stockade and into these the officers were moved
     the next day, while a thousand or more prisoners, brought on
     from Petersburg, were turned into the pen without shelter of
     any kind. From these we were separated by a line of
     sentinels, who had orders to shoot any who approached within
     six paces of their beat on either side. This was called the
     'dead-line,' which also extended around the enclosure about
     six paces from the stockade.

     "'The second Sunday after our arrival, just as we were
     assembling to hear preaching, an officer who had
     thoughtlessly stepped to a tree on the dead-line was shot
     and killed by the sentry, who was on an elevated platform
     outside the fence, and only about two rods distant. For this
     fiendish act the murderer was granted a sixty days furlough.

     "'Prisoners were being brought in almost daily, and at this
     time there were probably six thousand within the enclosure.
     A pretence of shelter was furnished by the issue of a few
     Sibley tents, but not more than a third of the prisoners
     were sheltered. Many of them built mud hovels or burrowed in
     the ground; some crawled under the hospital building. Very
     few had blankets and all were thinly clad, and the rations
     were barely sufficient to sustain life. What wonder that men
     lost their strength, spirits, and sometimes reason. The
     story of exposure, sickness and death is the same and rivals
     that of Andersonville.

