In those days we went to church with de white folks. Dey had church at eleven and the cullud
folks at three, but all of us had white preachers. Our church is standing right there now,
at least it was de last time I was there.

I don't have a favorite song, theys so many good ones, but I like, "Bound for the Promised
Land." I'm a Baptist, my mother was a Baptist, and her white folks was Baptist.

I have two daughters, Julia Goodwin and Bertha Frazier, and four grandchildren, both of 'ems
been separated. Dey do housework.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

SALOMON OLIVER Age 78 yrs. Tulsa, Oklahoma.

John A. Miller owned the finest plantation in Washington County, Mississippi, about 12-mile
east of Greenville. I was born on this 20,000-acre plantation November 17, 1859, being one
of about four hundred slave children on the place.

About three hundred negro families living in box-type cabins made it seem like a small town.
Built in rows, the cabins were kept whitewashed, neat and orderly, for the Master was strict
about such things. Several large barns and storage buildings were scattered around the plantation.
Also, two cotton gins and two old fashioned presses, operated by horses and mules, made Miller's
plantation one of the best equipped in Mississippi.

Master John was quite a character. The big plantation didn't occupy all his time. He owned
a bank in Vicksburg and another in New Orleans, and only came to the plantation two or three
times a year for a week or two visit.

Things happened around there mighty quick when the Master showed up. If the slaves were not
being treated right--out go the white overseer. Fired! The Master was a good man and tried
to hire good boss men. Master John was bad after the slave women. A yellow child show up every
once in a while. Those kind always got special privileges because the Master said he didn't
want his children whipped like the rest of them slaves.

My own Mammy, Mary, was the Master's own daughter! She married Salomon Oliver (who took the
name of Oliver after the War), and the Master told all the slave drivers to leave her alone
and not whip her. This made the overseers jealous of her and caused trouble. John Santhers
was one of the white overseers who treated her bad, and after I was born and got strong enough
(I was a weakling for three-four years after birth), to do light chores he would whip me just
for the fun of it. It was fun for him but not for me. I hoped to whip him when I grew up. That
is the one thing I won't ever forget. He died about the end of the War so that's one thing
I won't ever get to do.

My mother was high-tempered and she knew about the Master's orders not to whip her. I guess
sometimes she took advantage and tried to do things that maybe wasn't right. But it did her
no good and one of the white men flogged her to death. She died with scars on her back!

Father use to preach to the slaves when a crowd of them could slip off into the woods. I don't
remember much about the religious things, only just what Daddy told me when I was older. He
was caught several times slipping off to the woods and because he was the preacher I guess
they layed on the lash a little harder trying to make him give up preaching.

Ration day was Saturday. Each person was given a peck of corn meal, four pounds of wheat flour,
four pounds of pork meat, quart of molasses, one pound of sugar, the same of coffee and a plug
of tobacco. Potatoes and vegetables came from the family garden and each slave family was required
to cultivate a separate garden.

During the Civil War a battle was fought near the Miller plantation. The Yankees under General
Grant came through the country. They burned 2,000 bales of Miller cotton. When the Yankee wagons
crossed Bayou Creek the bridge gave way and quite a number of soldiers and horses were seriously
injured.

For many years after the War folks would find bullets in the ground. Some of the bullets were
'twins' fastened together with a chain.

Master Miller settled my father upon a piece of land after the War and we stayed on it several
years, doing well.

I moved to Muskogee in 1902, coming on to Tulsa in 1907, the same year Oklahoma was made a
state. My six wives are all dead,--Liza, Lizzie, Ellen, Lula, Elizabeth and Henrietta. Six
children, too. George, Anna, Salomon, Nelson, Garfield, Cosmos--all good children. They remember
the Tulsa riot and don't aim ever to come back to Oklahoma.

When the riot started in 1922 (I think it was), I had a place on the corner of Pine and Owasso
Streets. Two hundred of my people gathered at my place, because I was so well known everybody
figured we wouldn't be molested. I was wrong. Two of my horses was shot and killed. Two of
my boys, Salomon and Nelson, was wounded, one in the hip, the other in the shoulder. They wasn't
bad and got well alright. Some of my people wasn't so lucky. The dead wagon hauled them away!

White men came into the negro district and gathered up the homeless. The houses were most all
burned. No place to go except to the camps where armed whites kept everybody quiet. They took
my clothes and all my money--$298.00--and the police couldn't do nothing about my loss when
I reported it to them.

That was a terrible time, but we people are better off today that any time during the days
of slavery. We have some privileges and they are worth more than all the money in the world!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

PHYLLIS PETITE Age 83 yrs. Fort Gibson, Okla.

I was born in Rusk County, Texas, on a plantation about eight miles east of Belleview. There
wasn't no town where I was born, but they had a church.

My mammy and pappy belonged to a part Cherokee named W. P. Thompson when I was born. He had
kinfolks in the Cherokee Nation, and we all moved up here to a place on Fourteen-Mile Creek
close to where Hulbert now is, 'way before I was big enough to remember anything. Then, so
I been told, old master Thompson sell my pappy and mammy and one of my baby brothers and me
back to one of his neighbors in Texas name of John Harnage.

Mammy's name was Letitia Thompson and pappy's was Riley Thompson. My little brother was named
Johnson Thompson, but I had another brother sold to a Vann and he always call hisself Harry
Vann. His Cherokee master lived on the Arkansas river close to Webber's Falls and I never did
know him until we was both grown. My only sister was Patsy and she was borned after slavery
and died at Wagoner, Oklahoma.

I can just remember when Master John Harnage took us to Texas. We went in a covered wagon with
oxen and camped out all along the way. Mammy done the cooking in big wash kettles and pappy
done the driving of the oxen. I would set in a wagon and listen to him pop his whip and holler.

Master John took us to his plantation and it was a big one, too. You could look from the field
up to the Big House and any grown body in the yard look like a little body, it was so far away.

We negroes lived in quarters not far from the Big House and ours was a single log house with
a stick and dirt chimney. We cooked over the hot coals in the fireplace.

I just played around until I was about six years old I reckon, and then they put me up at the
Big House with my mammy to work. She done all the cording and spinning and weaving, and I done
a whole lot of sweeping and minding the baby. The baby was only about six months old I reckon.
I used to stand by the cradle and rock it all day, and when I quit I would go to sleep right
by the cradle sometimes before mammy would come and get me.

The Big House had great big rooms in front, and they was fixed up nice, too. I remember when
old Mistress Harnage tried me out sweeping up the front rooms. They had two or three great
big pictures of some old people hanging on the wall. They was full blood Indians it look like,
and I was sure scared of them pictures! I would go here and there and every which-a-way, and
anywheres I go them big pictures always looking straight at me and watching me sweep! I kept
my eyes right on them so I could run if they moved, and old Mistress take me back to the kitchen
and say I can't sweep because I miss all the dirt.

We always have good eating, like turnip greens cooked in a kettle with hog skins and crackling
grease, and skinned corn, and rabbit or possum stew. I liked big fish tolerable well too, but
I was afraid of the bones in the little ones.

That skinned corn aint like the boiled hominy we have today. To make it you boil some wood
ashes, or have some drip lye from the hopper to put in the hot water. Let the corn boil in
the lye water until the skin drops off and the eyes drop out and then wash that corn in fresh
water about a dozen times, or just keep carrying water from the spring until you are wore out,
like I did. Then you put the corn in a crock and set it in the spring, and you got good skinned
corn as long as it last, all ready to warm up a little batch at a time.

Master had a big, long log kitchen setting away from the house, and we set a big table for
the family first, and when they was gone we negroes at the house eat at that table too, but
we don't use the china dishes.

The negro cook was Tilda Chisholm. She and my mammy didn't do no out-work. Aunt Tilda sure
could make them corn-dodgers. Us children would catch her eating her dinner first out of the
kettles and when we say something she say: "Go on child, I jest tasting that dinner."

In the summer we had cotton homespun clothes, and in winter it had wool mixed in. They was
dyed with copperas and wild indigo.

My brother, Johnson Thompson, would get up behind old Master Harnage on his horse and go with
him to hunt squirrels so they would go 'round on Master's side so's he could shoot them. Master's
old mare was named "Old Willow", and she knowed when to stop and stand real still so he could
shoot.

His children was just all over the place! He had two houses full of them! I only remember Bell,
Ida, Maley, Mary and Will, but they was plenty more I don't remember.

That old horn blowed 'way before daylight, and all the field negroes had to be out in the row
by the time of sun up. House negroes got up too, because old Master always up to see everybody
get out to work.

Old Master Harnage bought and sold slaves most all the time, and some of the new negroes always
acted up and needed a licking. The worst ones got beat up good, too! They didn't have no jail
to put slaves in because when the Masters got done licking them they didn't need no jail.

My husband was George Petite. He tell me his mammy was sold away from him when he was a little
boy. He looked down a long lane after her just as long as he could see her, and cried after
her. He went down to the big road and set down by his mammy's barefooted tracks in the sand
and set there until it got dark, and then he come on back to the quarters.

I just saw one slave try to get away right in hand. They caught him with bloodhounds and brung
him back in. The hounds had nearly tore him up, and he was sick a long time. I don't remember
his name, but he wasn't one of the old regular negroes.

In Texas we had a church where we could go. I think it was a white church and they just let
the negroes have it when they got a preacher sometimes. My mammy took me sometimes, and she
loved to sing them salvation songs.

We used to carry news from one plantation to the other I reckon, 'cause mammy would tell about
things going on some other plantation and I know she never been there.

Christmas morning we always got some brown sugar candy or some molasses to pull, and we children
was up bright and early to get that 'lasses pull, I tell you! And in the winter we played skeeting
on the ice when the water froze over. No, I don't mean skating. That's when you got iron skates,
and we didn't have them things. We just get a running start and jump on the ice and skeet as
far as we could go, and then run some more.

I nearly busted my head open, and brother Johnson said: "Try it again," but after that I was
scared to skeet any more.

Mammy say we was down in Texas to get away from the War, but I didn't see any war and any soldiers.
But one day old Master stay after he eat breakfast and when us negroes come in to eat he say:
"After today I ain't your master any more. You all as free as I am." We just stand and look
and don't know what to say about it.

After while pappy got a wagon and some oxen to drive for a white man who was coming to the
Cherokee Nation because he had folks here. His name was Dave Mounts and he had a boy named John.

We come with them and stopped at Fort Gibson where my own grand mammy was cooking for the soldiers
at the garrison. Her name was Phyllis Brewer and I was named after her. She had a good Cherokee
master. My mammy was born on his place.

We stayed with her about a week and then we moved out on Four Mile Creek to live. She died
on Fourteen-Mile Creek about a year later.

When we first went to Four Mile Creek I seen negro women chopping wood and asked them who they
work for and I found out they didn't know they was free yet.

After a while my pappy and mammy both died, and I was took care of by my aunt Elsie Vann. She
took my brother Johnson too, but I don't know who took Harry Vann.

I was married to George Petite, and I had on a white underdress and black high-top shoes, and
a large cream colored hat, and on top of all I had a blue wool dress with tassels all around
the bottom of it. That dress was for me to eat the terrible supper in. That what we called
the wedding supper because we eat too much of it. Just danced all night, too! I was at Mandy
Foster's house in Fort Gibson, and the preacher was Reverend Barrows, I had that dress a long
time, but its gone now. I still got the little sun bonnet I wore to church in Texas.

We had six children, but all are dead but George, Tish, and Annie now.

Yes, they tell me Abraham Lincoln set me free, and I love to look at his picture on the wall
in the school house at Four Mile branch where they have church. My grand mammy kind of help
start that church, and I think everybody ought to belong to some church.

I want to say again my Master Harnage was Indian, but he was a good man and mighty good to
us slaves, and you can see I am more than six feet high, and they say I weighs over a hundred
and sixty, even if my hair is snow white.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MATILDA POE Age 80 yrs. McAlester, Okla.

I was born in Indian Territory on de plantation of Isaac Love. He was old Master, and Henry
Love was young Master. Isaac Love was a full blood Chickasaw Indian but his wife was a white woman.

Old Master was sure good to his slaves. The young niggers never done no heavy work till dey
was fully grown. Dey would carry water to de men in de field and do other light jobs 'round
de place.

De Big House set way back from de road 'bout a quarter of a mile. It was a two-story log house,
and the rooms was awful big and they was purty furniture in it. The furniture in de parlor
was red plush and I loved to slip in and rub my hand over it, it was so soft like. The house
was made of square logs and de cracks was filled out even with the edges of de logs. It was
white washed and my but it was purty. They was a long gallery clean across de front of de house
and big posts to support de roof. Back a ways from de house was de kitchen and nearby was de
smokehouse. Old Master kept it well filled with meat, lard and molasses all de time. He seen
to it that we always had plenty to eat. The old women done all de cooking in big iron pots
that hung over the fire. De slaves was all served together.

The slave quarters was about two hundred yards back of de Big House. Our furniture was made
of oak 'cepting de chairs, and dey was made out of hackberry. I still have a chair dat belonged
to my mammy.

The boys didn't wear no britches in de summer time. Dey just wore long shirts. De girls wore
homespun dresses, either blue or gray.

Old Master never hired no overseer for his slaves, but he looked after 'em hisself. He punished
dem hisself too. He had to go away one time and he hired a white man to oversee while he was
gone. The only orders he left was to keep dem busy. Granny Lucy was awful old but he made her
go to the field. She couldn't hold out to work so he ups and whips her. He beat her scandalous.
He cut her back so bad she couldn't wear her dress. Old Master come home and my, he was mad
when he see Granny Lucy. He told de man to leave and iffen he ever set foot on his ground again
he's shoot him, sure!

Old Master had a big plantation and a hundred or more slaves. Dey always got up at daylight
and de men went out and fed de horses. When de bell rang dey was ready to eat. After breakfast
dey took de teams and went out to plow. Dey come in 'bout half past 'leven and at twelve de
bell rung agin. Dey eat their dinner and back to plowing dey went. 'Bout five o'clock dey come
in again, and den they'd talk, sing and jig dance till bedtime.

Old Master never punished his niggers 'cepting dey was sassy or lazy. He never sold his slaves
neither. A owner once sold several babies to traders. Dey stopped at our plantation to stay
awhile. My mammy and de other women had to take care of dem babies for two days, and teach
dem to nuss a bottle or drink from a glass. Dat was awful, dem little children crying for they
mothers. Sometimes dey sold de mothers away from they husbands and children.

Master wasn't a believer in church but he let us have church. My we'd have happy times singing
an shouting. They'd have church when dey had a preacher and prayer meeting when dey didn't.

Slaves didn't leave de plantation much on 'count of de Patrollers. De patroller was low white
trash what jest wanted a excuse to shoot niggers. I don't think I ever saw one but I heard
lots of 'em.

I don't believe in luck charms and things of the such. Iffen you is in trouble, there ain't
nothing gonna save you but de Good Lawd. I heard of folks keeping all kind of things for good
luck charms. When I was a child different people gave me buttons to string and we called them
our charm string and wore 'em round our necks. If we was mean dey would tell us "Old Raw Head
and Bloody Bones" would git us. Grand mammy told us ghost stories after supper, but I don't
remember any of dem.

I never did know I was a slave, 'cause I couldn't tell I wasn't free. I always had a good time,
didn't have to work much, and allus had something to eat and wear and that was better than
it is with me now.

When de War was over old Master told us we was free. Mammy she say, "Well, I'm heading for
Texas." I went out and old Master ask me to bring him a coal of fire to light his pipe. I went
after it and mammy left pretty soon. My pappy wouldn't leave old Master right then but old
Master told us we was free to go where we pleased, so me an' pappy left and went to Texas where
my mammy was. We never saw old Master any more. We stayed a while in Texas and then come back
to de Indian Territory.

Abe Lincoln was a good man, everybody liked him. See, I've got his picture. Jeff Davis was
a good man too, he just made a mistake. I like Mr. Roosevelt, too.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

HENRY F. PYLES Age 81 yrs. Tulsa, Okla.

    Little pinch o' pepper----
    Little bunch o' wool----

    Mumbledy--Mumbledy----

