Inasmuch as, on the assumption that all phenomena of inorganic matter are effects, purely unpremeditated,
of Nature's capricious restlessness, there would of course be no more reason why any one such
phenomenon than any other should not at any time occur, there would equally of course on the
same assumption, be no more reason why it should. An infinity of phenomena being at all times
equally possible, the chances against any one being, on any occasion, preferred to all the
rest, would be infinity less one. Against any particular sequence of phenomena they would be
as infinity less one multiplied by the number of phenomena composing the sequence, and against
one or more repetitions of the same sequence they would be the same multiple of virtual infinity
multiplied by the number of repetitions. Against perpetual repetition, they would, as it were,
be virtual infinity multiplied by infinity. On the assumption stated, an apple loosened from
the parent stem, might quite possibly fall to the ground, but quite as possibly might remain
suspended in mid air, or rise straight upwards, or take any one of the innumerable directions
intervening between zenith and nadir, travelling too, unless interrupted, in the direction
selected for any period, from a single moment to endless ages. Experience, however, teaches
that an apple or any other body of greater specific gravity than air, does invariably, when
deprived of support, fall straight downward, such downward movement being part of one of those
sequences of phenomena which are classed under the head of gravitation. Now, to assert that
this, or any other, and consequently every other, specimen of gravitation, cannot possibly
have been unpremeditated would no doubt be unwarrantable. No doubt there is one solitary, one
infinitesimal chance that the force whose action results in gravitation may, when producing
that result, be acting with as little choice of direction as a fidgetty man makes when moving
his arms or legs about for no better reason than that he will not take the trouble to keep
them quiet. Only, as on the supposition that the force did not select its course, the chances
against its always taking the same course would be infinity less one indefinitely multiplied,
the probability that it does select must needs be the same indefinite multiple of virtual infinity.
Not less than this is the preponderance of probability that the invariably recurrent sequences
of phenomena which we are in the habit of referring to gravitation, are premeditated, and that
the law of gravitation has, so to speak, been wittingly ordained. And in this respect all invariable
sequences of phenomena, otherwise termed laws of nature, stand plainly in the same category.
One solitary and infinitesimal unit is the sole deduction to be made from what would otherwise
be infinite certainty, that the assumption we started with is false, and that all invariable
sequences are premeditated, all the laws of nature enacted by a law-giver who intended what
he was enacting.

Intention, however, is not quite the same thing as design. It is possible for action to be
at once intentional and purposeless. If a man, taking regularly a constitutional walk, is observed
always to take the same road, and to stop exactly at the same point, there can be no reasonable
doubt as to his intention to walk just so far and no farther; but it does not follow that he
has any object in walking which he supposes would not be equally served by his walking a few
paces more or less. Similarly whatever be the certainty that the laws of nature have been intentionally
established, there is in that certainty no proof of their having been established for any purpose
beyond that of gratifying some whim or humour of the lawgiver. For indications of design in
the universe we must look rather to organic than to inorganic nature, rather to structure than
to law. We shall find applying to the former the same reasoning as to the latter, and likewise
some more besides.

Inasmuch as, of the innumerable combinations of which the elements or elementary forces are
susceptible, each and every one, in the absence of any preference for one over another on the
part of the volition on which the occurrence of all depends, would have equal chances of occurring,
the chances against the occurrence at any particular time of any particular combination would
be as the number, or rather as the innumerosity, of all the rest to one. Such, in the absence
of any intentional action on Nature's part, would be the odds against any one single occurrence
of any one elemental combination. Against the perpetual repetition of the same combination
the odds would be the same innumerosity innumerable times multiplied. Nevertheless there actually
is everlastingly recurring, not simply one single specimen, but an innumerable multitude of
the same elemental combinations. Whatever were the combinations necessary for producing all
the existing organisms, vegetable and animal, with which our earth swarms, the constant recurrence
of those same or nearly the same combinations is indispensable both for the maintenance of
the organisms during life and for the production of successors to them; and such constant recurrence
is plainly going on. The chances then against its being unintended must be the aforesaid multiple
of innumerosity. But this is not all. The multiple in question represents the chances against
perpetual repetition of any set whatever of elemental combinations, but about the actually
recurrent set there is this peculiarity, that it produces and maintains innumerable organisms
or machines, which--inasmuch as all of them are marvellously fit, by reason of their respective
specialities of structure, for performing different obviously useful purposes--have all the
appearance of having been expressly constructed for the performance of those purposes. If these
appearances of adaptation were fallacious, if the apparent utility were undesigned, the chances
against the perpetual recurrence of so singularly useful, rather than of some totally useless,
set of combinations would be a multiple of innumerosity similar to that which has clearly been
shown to represent the preponderance of probability against the constant repetition of any
set of combinations whatever, whether useful or useless. If, then, it were permissible to use
so extravagant an hyperbole to indicate an idea of multitude to which it is not in the power
of words to give adequate expression, it might be said that while the chances against Nature's
habitual action being unintentional, or the result as it were of mere fidgettiness or restlessness,
are an indefinite multiple of infinity, the chances against its being purposeless and undesigned,
without view to end or object, is the same multiple doubled.

Still, in order to give the solitary and infinitesimal chance on the other side its full due,
let us confess it to be as yet not quite conclusively demonstrated that the actual order of
inorganic, and the actual constitution of organic, nature are results of uninterrupted repetition
of one and the same purposeless volition, and of the same purely fortuitous concourses of atoms.
Let us admit it to be not absolutely impossible, not utterly inconceivable, that vegetable
and animal organisms were not contrived such as they are with any view to their becoming habitations
of vegetable and animal life, but that having been accidentally discovered to be fit to be
lived in, they have been taken possession of by life and inhabited accordingly; that, similarly,
the wondrously complex and varied mechanisms of which most organisms are composed were not
made to be used, but are used because certain uses have been accidentally discovered for them--the
eye, for instance, to take one example out of myriads not less remarkable, not having been
meant to be seen with, but being employed for seeing because, by a happy coincidence, the particles
composing it have got to be collocated in such wise that a picture of whatever is opposite
to it is formed upon the retina, and is thence by a nervous concatenation transmitted to the
brain. Although, if the most consummate skill, in comparison with which that displayed in the
fabrication of Mr. Newall's telescope were downright clumsiness, had striven to devise a seeing
apparatus, capable of exact self-adjustment to all degrees of light, all gradations of distance,
all varieties of refrangibility, it could not have adopted a contrivance more exquisitely ingenious,
or evincing more minutely accurate knowledge of the most secret laws of optics, than the mechanism
of the eye apparently betokens, let it still be admitted to be not quite beyond the bounds
of possibility, that not skill but the blindest and densest ignorance may have presided over
the whole operation. But even though the modes of procedure involved in these admissions were
not quite impossible or inconceivable, belief in them would, I repeat, be palpably irrational,
and that almost to the last degree. The nearest approach to a reason that can be imagined for
it is the Credo quia incredibile est to which philosophers in despair have occasionally been
known to resort. Dudum in scholis audiveram, says Descartes, nihil tam absurdè dici posse quod
non dicatur ab aliquo Philosophorum. In his early college days he had heard that nothing so
absurd can possibly be said, but that some philosopher or other may say it. Such words are
too hard for me. I make as yet no charges of absurdity, contenting myself for the moment with
saying that no notion can be too unscientific to be adopted by those scientific men who, gratuitously
running counter to the strongest possible presumption, set the science of probabilities so
utterly at naught as to adopt as reality an hypothesis the chances against which are but one
single iota short of infinite.

