Justice Harlan dissented, saying that he was of the opinion that the Statute of Louisiana is
inconsistent with personal liberty of white and black in that State and hostile to both in
the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the United States. Justice Harlan rightly contended
that laws can have no regard to race according to the Constitution. If they do, they conflict
with the rights of State and national citizenship and with personal liberty. The Thirteenth
and Fourteenth Amendments removed race from our governmental system. But what has the court
to do with the policy or expediency of legislation? "A statute may be valid, and yet upon grounds
of public policy, may well be characterized as unreasonable." Accordingly Mr. Sedgwick, a distinguished
authority, says: "The Courts have no other duty to perform than to execute the legislative
will, without regard to their views as to the wisdom or justice of the particular enactment."
"Statutes," said Justice Harlan, "must always have a reasonable construction. Sometimes they
are to be construed strictly; sometimes, liberally, in order to carry out the legislative will.
But, however construed, the intent of the legislature is to be respected."

The decisions in the cases of M. K. and T. Railway v. Haber[36] and Crutcher v. Kentucky,[37]
are of some importance. In these cases the court reiterated the doctrine that the regulation
of the enjoyment of the relative rights and the performance of the duties, of all persons within
the jurisdiction of a State belong primarily to such a State under its reserved power to provide
for the safety of all persons and property within its limits; and that even if the subject
of such regulations be one that may be taken under the exclusive control of Congress, and be
reached by national legislation, any action taken by the State upon that subject that does
not directly interfere with rights secured by the Constitution of the United States or by some
valid act of Congress, must be respected until Congress intervenes.[38] The court by this time,
however, had all but held that the Constitution secured to the Negro no civil or political
rights except that of exemption from involuntary servitude, and that law for the Negro is the
will of the white man.

Further development of the doctrine as to the right of the State to deprive a Negro of citizenship
is brought out in the Lauder Case.[39] The case was this: Lauder's wife purchased a first class
ticket from Hopkinsville to Mayfield, both places within the State of Kentucky. She took her
place in what was called the "ladies' coach" and was ejected therefrom by the conductor and
assigned a seat in a smoking car, which was alleged to be small, badly ventilated, unclean
and fitted with greatly inferior accommodations. This road ran from Evansville, Indiana, to
Hopkinsville, Kentucky. It was held in the Court of Appeals that the decision of the United
States Supreme Court in Louisville, New Orleans and Railway v. Mississippi[40] and Plessy v.
Ferguson[41] was conclusive of the constitutionality of the act so far as the plaintiffs were
concerned; and that the mere fact that the railroad extended to Evansville, in the State of
Indiana, could in no wise render the statute in question invalid as to the duty of the railroad
to respect it.

In the case of Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company v. Kentucky,[42] this doctrine was carried
to its logical conclusion. The question was whether a proper construction of the separate car
law confines its operation to passengers whose journeys commence and end within the boundaries
of the State or whether a reasonable interpretation of the act requires Negro passengers to
be assigned to separate coaches when traveling from or to points in other States. In other
such cases the Supreme Court of the United States had interpreted the local law as applying
only to interstate commerce. The language of the first section of the Kentucky statute made
it very clear that it applied to all carriers. The first section of the Kentucky law follows:

     "Any railroad company or corporation, person or persons, running
     or otherwise operation of railroad cars or coaches by steam or
     otherwise, in any railroad line or track within this State, and
     all railroad companies, person or persons, doing business in this
     State, whether upon lines or railroads owned in part or whole, or
     leased by them; and all railroad companies, person or persons,
     operating railroad lines that may hereafter be built under
     existing charters, or charters that may hereafter be granted in
     this State; and all foreign corporations, companies, person or
     persons, organized under charters granted, or that may be
     hereafter granted by any other State, who may be now, or may
     hereafter be engaged in running or operating any of the railroads
     of this State, whether in part or whole, are hereby required to
     furnish separate coaches or cars for travel or transportation of
     the white and colored passengers on their respective lines of
     railroad."

Any sane man can see that this law undertook to regulate interstate commerce. Justice Brown,
however, tried to square the opinion with that of the Kentucky Supreme Court, upholding the
law on the grounds that it was constitutional in as much as it applied only to intrastate passenger
traffic, although the law plainly applies also to interstate traffic.

Speaking further for the court, Justice Brown said: "Indeed we are by no means satisfied that
the Court of Appeals did not give the correct construction to this statute in limiting its
operation to domestic commerce. It is scarcely courteous to impute to a legislature the enactment
of a law which it knew to be unconstitutional and if it were well settled that a separate coach
law was unconstitutional, as applied to interstate commerce, the law applying on its face to
all passengers should be limited to such as the legislature were competent to deal with. The
Court of Appeals has found such to be the intention of the General Assembly in this case, or
at least, that if such were not its intention, the law may be supported as applying alone to
domestic commerce. In thus holding the act to be severable it is laying down a principle of
construction from which there is no appeal."

"While we do not deny the force of the railroad's argument in this connection, we cannot say
that the General Assembly would not have enacted this law if it had supposed it applied only
to domestic commerce; and if it were in doubt on that point, we should unhesitatingly defer
to the opinion of the Court of Appeals, which held that it would give it that construction
if the case called for it. In view of the language above quoted it would be unbecoming for
us to say that the Court of Appeals would not construe the law as applicable to domestic commerce
alone, and if it did, the case would fall directly within the Mississippi Case.[43] We, therefore,
feel compelled to give it that construction ourselves and so construe it that there can be
no doubt as to its constitutionality." Here we have a plain case of the United States Supreme
Court declaring an act severable because thereby it could apparently justify as constitutional
a measure depriving the Negroes of civil and political rights, whereas in some other cases
it has held other acts not severable to reach the same end.

The court continued its reactionary course. In Chiles v. Chesapeake and Ohio R. R. Company[44]
the court reiterated that "Congressional inaction is equivalent to a declaration that a carrier
may, by its regulations, separate white and Negro interstate passengers. In McCabe v. Atchinson,
Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company,[45] Justice Hughes giving the opinion of the court, followed
the Plessy v. Ferguson decision. He did not believe, moreover, "that the contention that an
act though fair on its face may be so unequally and oppressively administered by the public
authorities as to amount to an unconstitutional discrimination by the State itself, is applicable
where it is the administration of the provisions of a separate coach law by carriers, which
is claimed to produce the discrimination. The separate coach provisions of Oklahoma[46] apply
to transportation wholly intrastate in absence of a different construction by State courts
and do not contravene the commerce clause of the Federal court. The court held, however, that
so much of the Oklahoma separate coach law as permits carriers to provide sleeping cars, dining
cars, and chair cars for white persons, and to provide no similar accommodations for Negroes,
denies the latter the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Constitution.

The most recent case, that of the South Covington and Cincinnati Street Railway, Plaintiff
in error v. Commonwealth of Kentucky shows another step in the direction of complete surrender
to caste. This company was a Kentucky corporation, each of the termini of the railroad of which
was in Kentucky. The complainant hoped to prevent the segregation of passengers carried from
Ohio into Kentucky. The decision was that a Kentucky street railway may be required by statute
of that State to furnish either separate cars or separate compartments in the same car for
white and Negro passengers although its principal business is the carriage of passengers in
interstate commerce between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Kentucky across the Ohio River. Such a requirement
affects interstate commerce only incidentally, and does not subject it to unreasonable demands.
In other words, this inconvenience to the carrier is not very much and the humiliation and
burden which it entails upon persons of color thus segregated should not concern the court,
although they are supposed to be citizens of the United States.

Justice Day dissented and Justices Van DeVanter and Putney concurred on the ground that the
attachment of a different car upon the Kentucky side on so short a journey would burden interstate
commerce as to cost and in the practical operation of the traffic. The provision for a separate
compartment for the use of only interstate Negro passengers would lead to confusion and discrimination.
The same interstate transportation would be subject to conflicting regulation in the two States
in which it is conducted. They believed that it imposed an unreasonable burden and according
to the dissentients was, therefore, void.

JUSTICE IN THE COURTS.

One of the most important constitutional rights denied the Negroes is that of justice in the
courts. In as much as their former masters felt enraged against the freedmen because of their
sudden release from bondage, they too often perpetrated upon the freedmen crimes for which
the Negro had no redress in courts, for white persons constituted the accusers, the prosecutors,
the judges, and the juries. Immediately following the Civil War, before the amendments of the
Constitution enacted in the special behalf of the race were effected, Negroes were by the Black
Codes deprived of all of the rights of citizens and nothing bore more grievously upon them
than the deprivation of the right to serve on juries. Some States had special laws carrying
out this prohibition. The first case of consequence requiring an interpretation of the State
law to this effect was that of Strauder v. West Virginia,[47] already mentioned above. In this
case the court took high constitutional ground. It was held that "a law of West Virginia limiting
to white persons, twenty-one years of age and citizens of the State, the right to sit upon
juries, was a discrimination which implied a legal inferiority in civil society, which lessened
the security of the right of the colored race, and was a step toward reducing them to a condition
of servility." The right of a man of color that, in the selection of jurors to pass upon his
life, liberty, and property, there shall be no exclusion of his race and no discrimination
against them because of color, was asserted in a number of cases, to wit: Virginia v. Rives,[48]
Neal v. Delaware,[49] Gibbons v. Kentucky.[50]

In the case of Bush v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky[51] the Negro faced an additional difficulty
in that the court held that wherein there was no specific law excluding persons from service
upon juries because of their race or color, that the petitioner would have to show evidence
to that effect. In the case of Smith v. The State of Mississippi[52] it was held that the omission
or refusal of officers to include Negro citizens in the list from which jurors might be drawn
is not, as to a Negro subsequently brought to trial, a denial of equal protection of laws.
In the case of Murray v. The State of Louisiana[53] the decision was that the fact that a law
confers on the jury commissioners judicial power in the selection of citizens for jury service,
does not involve a conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, although in the exercise of such power they might not select Negroes for jury service.

The case of Williams v. Mississippi was more interesting. The law of that State prescribed
the qualifications of voters and of grand and petit juries and invested the administrative
officers with a large discretion in determining what citizens have the necessary qualifications.
As it appeared that in the use of their discretion they would exclude Negroes from such juries
it was contended that the act of Mississippi was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
court held, however, that the Mississippi law could not be held repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment merely on a showing that the law might operate as a discrimination against the Negro
race, in absence of proof of an actual discrimination in the case under consideration. This
ground has often proved convenient for the Supreme Court of the United States in dodging the
question whether or not the Negroes must be protected in the rights guaranteed them by the
Constitution.

This case was decided in 1897 and two years later Mr. Justice Gray, giving the opinion of the
court in the case of Carter v. Texas,[54] said that the exclusion of all persons of African
race from a grand jury which finds an indictment against a Negro in a State court, when they
are excluded solely because of their race or color denies him the equal protection of the laws
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, whether
such exclusion is done through the action of the legislature, through the courts, or through
the executive or administrative officers of the State. This was substantially the position
taken in the case of Strauder v. West Virginia twenty years earlier.

The Negroes received some encouragement, too, from the decision of Rogers v. Alabama.[55] It
was held that there had been a denial of the equal protection of the laws by a ruling of a
State court upon the motion to quash an indictment on account of the exclusion of Negroes from
the grand jury list, which motion, though because of its being in two printed octavos, was
struck from the files under the color of local practice for prolixity, contained an allegation
that certain provisions of the newly adopted State constitution, claimed to have the effect
of disfranchising Negroes because of their race, when such action worked as a consideration
in the minds of the jury commissioners in reaching their decision. The court held in Martin
v. The State of Texas, however,[56] that a discrimination against Negroes because of their
race in the selection of grand or petit jurors as forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment is
not shown by written motion to quash, respectively, the indictment of the panel of petit jurors,
charging such discrimination where no evidence was introduced to establish the facts stated
in the omissions. It is not sufficient merely to prove that no persons of color were on the jury.

As certain States wished to make the government further secure in the elimination of Negroes
from juries, after making the qualifications for voters unusually rigid so as to exclude persons
of African descent, they easily established the same qualifications for jurors, to relieve
persons of color also from that service. In the case of Franklin v. South Carolina[57] the
court held that there was no discrimination against Negroes because of their race in the selection
of the grand jury made by the laws of South Carolina,[58] giving the jury commissioner the
right to select electors of good moral character such as they may deem qualified to serve as
jurors, being persons of sound mind and free from all legal exceptions. A motion, therefore,
to quash an indictment against a Negro for disqualification of the grand jurors who must be
electors, because of a change in the State constitution of South Carolina respecting the qualifications
of electors, did not violate the Act of Congress, June 25, 1868, and, therefore, did not present
to the Supreme Court of the United States a question of a denial of Federal right where there
is nothing in the record to show that the grand jury as actually impaneled contained any person
who was not qualified as an elector under the earlier State constitution, which was, according
to the allegation, so made up as to exclude Negroes on account of their color. The Supreme
Court of the United States then took no account of the intent or the spirit of the law maker
as this tribunal had been accustomed to do in cases of constitutional import and left upon
the Negro the burden of performing the difficult task of showing that he had been discriminated
against on account of his color when the discrimination could be easily effected without the
possibility of his actually producing any evidence that on the face of itself could convince
the court.

SUFFRAGE

As already mentioned above the Negroes during this period were struggling to retain the right
of suffrage and, of course, were attacking in the courts those restrictions primarily directed
toward the elimination of the Negroes from the electorate. The Supreme Court of the United
States generally shrank from these cases by disclaiming jurisdiction. In Ex Parte Siebold,[59]
Ex Parte Yarborough,[60] and In re Coy,[61] however, the general jurisdiction of Federal courts
over matters involved in the election of national officers was affirmed. The court held that
it had jurisdiction in the election case in Wiley v. Sinkler,[62] when there was brought an
action to recover damages of an election board for wilfully rejecting a citizen's vote for
a member of the House of Representatives. In Swafford v. Templeton[63] a suit was brought for
damages for the alleged wrongful refusal by the defendants at an election of officers to permit
the plaintiff to vote at a national election for a member of the House of Representatives.
It was held that the court had jurisdiction.

From the Supreme Court of the United States, however, the Negroes received little encouragement,
in as much as the right of suffrage, with its requirements of property ownership and the literacy
test, could be withheld from the Negro without specifically discriminating against any one
on account of race or color. In Southy v. Virginia, 181 U. S., Revised Statutes, of the United
States, Cont. St. 1901, pages 37-42, providing that every person who prevents, hinders, controls
or intimidates another from exercising the right of suffrage, to whom that right is guaranteed
by the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, by means of bribery, etc.,
shall be punished, was held invalid as it was considered to be beyond the constitutional power
of Congress to act in such a case except in that of race discrimination. If the discrimination
is in a State or municipal election, however, Congress may intervene, if the discrimination
is shown, but not until then.

In the case of Giles v. Harris[64] there was brought to the Supreme Court a bill in equity,
complaining that Negroes qualified to vote for members of Congress had been refused on account
of their color by virtue of the Alabama constitution, whereas white men were registered to
vote at such an election. Relief was asked for on the basis of the Revised Statutes, Sec. 1979,
praying that the Supreme Court should order that the petitioner be registered and declare null
and void the special clause of the Alabama constitution. The court answered this petition with
certain observations disclaiming jurisdiction largely for "want of merit in the averments which
were made in the complaint as to the violation of Federal rights."

The court held that if the registrars acting at this election in Alabama had no authority under
the new constitution, which the petitioner prayed that the court might declare null and void,
they could not legally register the plaintiff. If they had authority, they were within their
right to use their discretion. If this clause in the constitution should be struck down according
to the prayer of the plaintiff, there would be no board to which the mandamus could be issued.
The Supreme Court, therefore, held that no damage had been suffered because no refusal to register
by a board constituted in defiance of the Federal Constitution could disqualify a legal voter
otherwise entitled to exercising the electorate franchise, since this amounts to a decision
upon an independent non-Federal ground sufficient to sustain the judgment without reference
to the Federal question presented. It observed, moreover, that the bill imported that the great
mass of the white population intended to keep the blacks from voting. To meet such an intent
something more than ordering the plaintiff named to be inscribed upon the lists of 1902 would
be needed.

Giving his dissenting opinion in this case, Justice Brewer showed that "although the statute
and these decisions thus expressly limit the range of inquiry to the question of jurisdiction,
it was held that there is a constitutional question shown in the pleadings. The certificate,
therefore, might be ignored and the entire case presented to the court for consideration....
Hence every case coming up on a certificate of jurisdiction may be held to present a constitutional
question and be open for full inquiry in respect to all matters involved." Brewer would not
assent to the proposition that the case presented was not a strictly legal one and entitling
a party to a judicial hearing and decision. "He is a citizen of Alabama entitled to vote. He
wanted to vote at an election for a Representative in Congress. Without registration he could
not, and registration was wrongfully denied him. That many others were thus treated does not
deprive him of his right or deprive him of relief." Justice Harlan dissented also giving practically
the same argument as that of Justice Brewer. He observed: "The court in effect says that although
it may know that the record fails to show a case within the original cognizance of the Circuit
Court, it may close its eyes to that fact, and review the case on its merit." In view of the
adjudged cases, he could not agree that the failure of parties to raise a question of jurisdiction
relieved this court of its duty to raise it upon its own motion.

There was thereafter presented a petition for modification of judgment and for a rehearing
June 1, 1903. The court ordered the decree of affirmance changed adding these words: "So far
as such decree orders that the petition be dismissed, but without prejudice to such further
proceedings as the petitioner may be advised to make."

The case of Giles v. Teasley[65] was, to some extent, of the same sort. A Negro of Alabama
who had previously been a voter and who had complied with the reasonable requirements of the
board of registration, was refused the right to vote, for, as he alleged, no reason other than
his race and color, the members of the board having been appointed and having acted under the
provision of the State constitution of 1901. He sued the members of the board for damages and
for such refusal in an action, and applied for a writ of mandamus to compel them to register
him, alleging in both proceedings the denial of his rights under the Federal Constitution and
that the provisions of the State Constitution were repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment. The
complaint had been dismissed on demurrer and the writ refused, the highest court of the State
holding that if the provisions of the constitution were repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment,
they were void and that the board of registers appointed thereunder had no existence and no
power to act and would not be liable for a refusal to register him, and could not be compelled
by writ of mandamus to do so; that if the provisions were constitutional, the registrars had
acted properly thereunder and their action was not reviewable by the courts.

"The right of the Supreme Court to review the decisions of the highest court of a State," said
the national tribunal, "is even in cases involving the violations by the provisions of a State
constitution of the Fifteenth Amendment, circumscribed by rules established by law, and in
every case coming to the court on writ of error or appeal the question of jurisdiction must
be answered whether propounded by the counsel or not. Where the State court decided the case
for reasons independent of the Federal right claimed its action is not reviewable on writ of
error by the United States Supreme Court." It was held that the writs of error to this court
should be dismissed, as such decisions do not involve the adjudication against the plaintiff
in error of a right claimed under the Federal Constitution but deny the relief demanded on
grounds wholly independent thereof." In Wiley v. Sinkler, and Swafford v. Templeton, the registrars
were legally averred to be qualified.[66]

In the Maryland case of Pope v. Williams[67] the court further
explained its position. While the State cannot restrict suffrage on
account of color, the privilege is not given by the Federal
Constitution, nor does it spring from citizenship of the United
States. While the right to vote for members of Congress is derived
exclusively from the law of the State in which they are chosen but has
its foundation in the laws and Constitution of the United States, the
elector must be one entitled to vote under its statute. A law,
therefore, requiring a declaration of intention to become citizens
before registering as voters of all persons coming from without
Maryland is not a violation of the Constitution. Precinct election inspectors
     having in charge the registration of electors shall enforce the
     provisions of this section at the time of registration, provided
     registration be required. Should registration be dispensed with,
     the provisions of this section shall be enforced by the precinct
     officer when electors apply for ballots to vote."

The court held that this was a standard of voting which on its face was in substance but a
revitalization of conditions which when they prevailed in the past had been destroyed by the
self-operative force of the Thirteenth Amendment.

EDUCATIONAL PRIVILEGES

These suffrage laws left the Negroes in an untoward situation for the reason that there was
little hope that, with the educational facilities afforded them, that they would soon be able
to meet the same requirement of literacy as that which might not embarrass the whites offering
themselves as jurors and electors. The States upheld in their action by the United States Supreme
Court, had shifted from their shoulders the burden of the uplift of the Negro by the ingenious
doctrine that equal accommodations did not mean identical accommodations and that the spirit
and the letter of the law would be complied with by providing separate accommodations for Negroes.
In the end, however, separate accommodations turned out to be in some cases no accommodations
at all.

This was the situation as it was brought out in the case of Cumming v. The Board of Education
of Richmond County.[71] It appeared that a tax for schools had been levied in this district.
The Negroes objected to paying that portion of the tax which provided for the maintenance of
a high school, the benefits of which they were denied, when there was no high school provided
for them. The board of education of Richmond County had maintained a high school for Negroes
but abolished it. The petitioner prayed, therefore, that an injunction be granted against the
collection of such portion of the school tax as was used for the maintenance of said high school.
The defendant set up the plea that it had not established a white high school, but had merely
appropriated some money to assist a denominational high school for white children, saying "that
it had to choose between maintaining the lower schools for a large number of Negroes and providing
a high school for about sixty." The board of education, declared, moreover, that the establishment
of a Negro high school was merely postponed.

The opinion of the court was that a decision by a State court, denying an injunction against
the maintenance by a board of education of a high school for white children, while failing
to maintain one for Negro children also, for the reason that the funds were not sufficient
to maintain it in addition to needed primary schools for Negro children, does not constitute
a denial to persons of color of the equal protection of the law or equal privileges of citizens
of the United States. The court held that under the circumstances disclosed it could not say
that this action of the State court was, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, a
denial by the State to the plaintiffs and to those associated with them of the equal protection
of the laws, or of any privileges belonging to them as citizens of the United States. While
the court admitted that the benefits and burdens of public taxation must be shared by citizens
without discrimination against any class on account of their race, it held that the education
of people in schools maintained by State taxation is a matter belonging to the respective States,
and any interference on the part of Federal authority with the management of such schools cannot
be justified except in case of a clear unmistakable disregard of rights secured by the supreme
law of the land.

This is downright sophistry. To any sane man it could not but be evident that this was an "unmistakable
disregard of rights secured by the Supreme law of the land." The school authorities had separated
white and Negro children for purposes of education on account of race and had, moreover, refused
to grant the Negro children the facilities equal to those of the white. The State, in the first
place, in establishing separate schools on the basis of race, violated a right guaranteed the
Negro race by the Constitution of the United States, and the board of education of Richmond
County violated still another in failing to provide for the Negroes the same facilities for
high school education as those furnished the whites while taxing all citizens without regard
to race. It is true that the Federal Government cannot generally interfere in matters of police
regulation of persons and property in the States but when the matter of race is introduced
the national authority is thoroughly competent within the Constitution to restrain such local
government or any group of persons so authorized by such government. It would have been unwise
for the court to enjoin the collection of such a tax but it could have on the constitutional
points raised in this case declared invalid laws separating the races for purposes of education.

The sophistry of the Supreme Court in seeking to justify its refusal to maintain the rights
of the Negro to education is still more evident from its opinion in the case of Berea College
v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky, decided in 1908. Berea College was established in 1856 by
a group of antislavery Kentucky mountaineers, led by John G. Fee, desiring to bring up their
children in the love of free institutions. There were no Negro students prior to the Civil
War but a few Negro soldiers were admitted on returning home from the front in their uniforms
and members of the race were thereafter welcomed at Berea. In the course of time, however,
this coeducation of the races became very distasteful to the State of Kentucky with its decided
increase in race prejudice necessitating in their economy a thorough proscription of the Negro
race. In 1904, therefore, the State of Kentucky enacted a law against persons and corporations
maintaining schools for both white persons and Negroes.

Feeling that its charter was violated by this law and also that it infringed upon the rights
guaranteed the Negro in the Constitution of the United States, Berea College attacked the validity
of this measure in the inferior courts and finally in the Supreme Court of the United States.
The plaintiff unanswerably contended that this Kentucky law abridged one's privileges and immunities,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which was
a limitation on the police power of the State when it brings in the matter of race. It further
contended that the Constitution makes no distinction between races and that the Fourteenth
Amendment is not only to protect Negroes but to protect white persons in the enjoyment of their
rights. The plaintiff admitted that social equality could not be enforced by legislation but
contended that voluntary social equality of persons cannot be constitutionally prohibited,
unless it is shown that such is immoral, disorderly, or for some other reason so palpably injurious
to the public welfare as to justify direct interference with the personal liberty of the citizens.

Evidently wishing to find some ground upon which it could base its opinion upholding the Supreme
Court of Kentucky which had sustained this statute, the Supreme Court of the United States
fell back upon various principles of interpretation. The court said it would not disturb the
judgment of the State court resting on Federal or non-Federal grounds, if the latter was sufficient
to sustain the decision in as much as the State court determines the extent of the limitations
of powers conferred by the State on its corporations. It directed attention to the fact that
a corporation is not entitled to all the immunities to which individuals are entitled and a
State may withhold from its corporations privileges and powers of which it cannot constitutionally
deprive individuals. A State statute limiting the powers of corporations and individuals may
be constitutional as to the former, although unconstitutional as to the latter; and if separable
it will not be held unconstitutional in the instance of a corporation unless it clearly appears
that the legislature would not have enacted it as to corporations separately. "The same rule,"
continues the court, "which permits separable sections of a statute to be declared unconstitutional
without rendering the entire statute void applies to separable provisions of a section of a
statute. In coming to the assistance of the Supreme Court of Kentucky the national tribunal
said the prohibition of Kentucky against persons and corporations maintaining schools for both
white persons and Negroes is separable and, even if an unconstitutional restraint as to individuals,
is not unconstitutional as to corporations, it being within the power of the State to determine
the powers conferred upon its corporations.

The court conceded that the reserve power to alter, or amend charters is subject to reasonable
limitations but insisted that the Kentucky law includes no alteration or amendment which defeats
or substantially impairs the object of the grant of vested rights. The court then went almost
out of its way to say that "a general statute which in effect alters or amends a charter is
to be construed as an amendment for all even if not in terms so designated. The court conceded
that a statute which permits the education of both whites and Negroes at the same time in different
localities, although prohibiting their attendance in the same place, does not defeat the object
of a grant to maintain the college for all persons and is not violative of the contract clause
of the Federal Constitution, the State law having reserved the right to repeal, alter and amend
charters.

Justice Harlan dissented. He referred to the fact that the court held also, in Huntington v.
Werthen,[72] that if one provision of a statute be invalid the whole act will fall, where "it
is evident the legislature would not have enacted one of them without the other." Harlan meant
to say here that to construe this law as applying only to corporations and not to individuals
would give it an interpretation that the legislature never had in mind. The intention of the
State legislature was to prevent all coeducation of Negroes and whites whether it should be
done by persons or corporations. The whole law, therefore, should fall. Justice Harlan conceded
that a State reserved the right to repeal the charter but it was not repealed by this act.
The statute did not purport even to amend the charter of any particular corporation but assumed
to establish a certain rule applicable alike to all individuals, associations, or corporations
that teach the white and black races together in the same institution. This decision of the
United States Supreme Court was then nothing more than "fine sophistry" to sanction an arbitrary
invasion of the rights of liberty and property guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

Justice Harlan contended that if the giving of instruction is not a property right, it is one's
liberty. Exposing the sophistry of the court he remarked that if the schools must be subjected
to such segregation, why not also the Sabbath Schools and Churches? "If States can prohibit
the coeducation of the whites and blacks it may prohibit the association of the Anglo-Saxons
and Latins; of the Christians and the Jews.

THE RIGHT TO LABOR

Although the Negro by these various decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States had
been deprived of rights essential to freedom and citizenship in matters of voting, service
upon juries, education, and the use of common carriers, there remained even another right which
was to be infringed upon without the hope of any redress from the United States Supreme Court.
This was the right to contract, to labor. Every honest man should live by his own labor and
it is a well established principle of democratic government, that in the exercise of this right
the individual should be free not only from interference on the part of the government but
should enjoy protection from individuals subject to the government. Because of the development
of race prejudice into a flame of bitter antagonism among the laboring men during the period
of commercial expansion in the United States since the Reconstruction period, the country has
been all but thoroughly organized through trades unions, so as to restrict the Negro to menial
service by written constitutions in keeping with the caste which has so long figured conspicuously
in American institutions.

Negroes sought redress in the courts and finally in the United States Supreme Court, the best
case in evidence being that of Hodges v. United States.[73] In this case came a complaint from
certain Negroes in Arkansas laboring in the service of an employer according to a contract.
Because of their color certain criminals in that community conspired to injure, oppress, threaten
and intimidate them, resulting in the severance of their connection with this employer and
the consequent economic loss resulting therefrom. The Negroes thus complaining brought this
case to the United States Supreme Court contending that a remedy for this evil was to be found
in the revised statutes of the United States Senate, Sections 1977, 1979, 5508, and 5510. These
sections follow in the order of their importance:

     Section 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure,
     oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise
     or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the
     Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of his
     having so exercised the same; or if two or more persons go in
     disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with
     intent to hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or
     privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than five
     thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years, and
     shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place
     of honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution or laws of
     the United States.

Other statutes referred to but not so vital were:

     Section 1977.

     Section 1978.

     Section 1979. Every person who, under color of any statute,
     ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or
     Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of
     the United States or other persons within the jurisdiction
     thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or
     immunities, secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable
     to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or
     other proper proceeding for redress.

     Section 5510. Every person who, under color of any law,
     statute, ordinance, regulation, or custom, subjects or causes to
     be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to the
     deprivation of any right, privilege, or immunities, secured or
     protected by the Constitution and laws of the United States or to
     different punishments, pains or penalties, on account of such
     inhabitants being an alien, or by reason of his color, or race,
     than are prescribed for the punishment of citizens, shall be
     punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars or by
     imprisonment not more than one year, or by both.

The decision in this case was in substance that Congress cannot make it an offense against
the United States for individuals to combine or conspire to prevent even by force, citizens
of African descent, solely because of their race, from earning a living, although the right
to earn one's living in all legal ways and to make lawful contracts in reference thereto is
a vital point of freedom established by the Constitution. Section 5508 had been upheld in Ex
Parte Yarborough,[74] and in the case of Logan v. the United States[75] the court referred
to this section as having been upheld in Ex Parte Yarborough. In United States v. Reese, moreover,[76]
Justice Waite said in 1875, speaking for the court, "The rights and immunities created by or
dependent upon the Constitution of the United States can be protected by Congress. The form
and the manner of the protection may be such as Congress in the legitimate exercise of its
legislative discretion shall provide. This may be varied to meet the necessities of the particular
right to be protected."

"The whole scope and effect of this series of decisions," continued the court, "was that, while
certain fundamental rights recognized and declared but not granted or created, in some of the
amendments to the Constitution are thereby guaranteed only against violation or abridgement
by the United States, or by the States, as the case may be, and cannot, therefore, be affirmatively
enforced by Congress against unlawful causes of individuals; yet that every right created by,
arising under, or dependent upon the Constitution of the United States may be protected and
enforced by Congress by such means and in such manner as Congress in the exercise of the correlative
duty of protection, or of the legislative powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, may
in its discretion deem most eligible and best adopted to attain the object." This doctrine
was sustained also by the decision in the case of United States v. Waddell,[77] and Motes v.
United States.[78] Here it was emphatically stated that Congress might pass any law necessary
or proper for carrying out any power conferred upon it by the Constitution.

The court here, however, evaded the real question as before, dodging behind the doctrine that
while a State or the United States could not abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens,
individuals or groups of individuals may do so and Congress has no power to interfere in such
matters since these come within the police power of the State. In other words, the government
cannot discriminate against the Negro itself, but it can establish agencies with power to do
it. It is not surprising that Justice Harlan dissented, feeling as he had on former occasions
that this decision permitted the States and groups of individuals supposedly subject to the
government of those States to fasten upon the Negro badges or incidents of slavery in violation
of the civil rights guaranteed him by the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments. He believed
that Congress had the right to pass any law to protect citizens in the enjoyment of any right
granted him by Congress. The duty of the Federal government as Justice Harlan saw it was very
clear in that the State had caused the race question to be injected therein and in such a case
Congress always has power to act.

On the whole, however, the United States Supreme Court has not yet had the moral courage to
face the issue in cases involving the constitutional rights of the Negro. Not a decision of
that tribunal has yet set forth a straightforward opinion as to whether the States can enact
one code of laws for the Negroes and another for the other elements of our population in spite
of the fact that the Constitution of the United States prohibits such iniquitous legislation.
In cases in which this question has been frankly put the court has wiggled out of it by some
such declaration as that the case was improperly brought, that there were defects in the averments,
or that the court lacked jurisdiction.

In the matter of jurisdiction the United States Supreme Court has been decidedly inconsistent.
This tribunal at first followed the opinion of Chief Justice John Marshall in the case of Osborn
v. United States Bank,[79] that "when a question to which the judicial power of the United
States is extended by the Constitution forms an ingredient of the original cause it is in the
power of Congress to give the Circuit Courts the jurisdiction of that cause, although other
questions of fact or of law may be involved." Prior to the rise of the Negro to the status
of so-called citizenship the court built upon this decision the prerogative of examining all
judicial matters pertaining to the Federal Government until it made itself the sole arbiter
in all important constitutional questions and became the bulwark of nationalism. After some
reaction the court resumed that position in all of its decisions except those pertaining to
the Negro; for in the recent commercial expansion of the country involving the litigation of
unusually large property values, the United States Supreme Court has easily found grounds for
jurisdiction where economic rights are concerned; but just as easily disclaims jurisdiction
where human rights are involved in cases in which Negroes happen to be the complainants.

The fairminded man, the patriot of foresight, observes, therefore, with a feeling of disappointment
this prostitution of an important department of the Federal Government to the use of the reactionary
forces in the United States endeavoring to whittle away the essentials of the Constitution
which guarantees to all persons in this country all the rights enjoyed under the most progressive
democracy on earth. Since the Civil War the United States Supreme Court instead of performing
the intended function of preserving the Constitution by democratic interpretation, has by its
legislative decisions practically stricken therefrom so many of its liberal provisions and
read into the Constitution so much caste and autocracy that discontent and radicalism have
developed almost to the point of eruption.

                                             C. G. WOODSON

FOOTNOTES:

[1] McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 416.

[2] Ibid., 416.

[3] Ibid., 416.

[4] Dred Scott v. Sanford, 19 Howard, 399.

[5] 16 Peters, 539, 612.

[6] Dred Scott v. Sanford, 19 Howard, 399.

[6a] 21 Howard, 506.

[7] 6 Howard, 344.

[8] 94 U.S., 113.

[9] 16 Wall., 678.

[10] This was held in Township of Queensburg v. Culver (19 Wall., 83), in Township of Pine
Grove v. Talcott (19 Wall., 666), and in Massachusetts in Worcester v. Western R. R. Corporation
(4 Met., 564).

[11] Storey on Bailments, Sec. 475-6, and Rex v. Ivens, 7 Carrington & Payne, 213; 32, E. C.
L., 495.

[12] 16 Wall., 36.

[13] 100 U. S., 303.

[14] 100 U. S., 306.

[15] 103 U. S., 386.

[16] Ex Parte Virginia, 100 U. S., 346-7.

[17] 14 statutes, 27, Chapter 31.

[18] 16 statutes, 140, Chapter 114.

[19] 109 U. S., 1.

[20] United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S., 542; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S., 318; Ex Parte
Virginia, 100 U. S., 339.

[21] 6 Cranch, 128.

[22] 99 U. S., 418.

[23] United States v. Reese, 92 U. S., 214; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S., 303.

[24] Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall., 418; Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Washington, D. C., 371; Paul v.
Virginia, 8 Wall., 168; Slaughter-house cases, Ibid., 36.

[25] 92 U. S., 542.

[26] 95 U. S., 487.

[27] The Louisiana Act was:

     Section--.

     Section 4. For a violation of any provision of the first and
     second sections of this act, the party injured shall have right
     of action to recover any damage, exemplary as well as actual,
     which he may sustain, before any court of competent jurisdiction.
     Acts of 1869, page 77; Rev. Stat. 1870, page 93.

[28] Mr. Justice Clifford concurred in the judgment but went into details to justify the segregation
whereas the opinion of the court merely tried to see whether the details conflicted with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce.

[29] 118 W. S., 557.

[30] All of these are in 94 U. S.

[31] 133 U. S., 587.

[32] This was the law of Mississippi:

     Sec. 1. "Be it enacted, That all railroads carrying passengers
     in this State (other than street railroads) shall provide equal,
     but separate accommodation for the white and colored races by
     providing two or more passenger cars for each passenger train, or
     by dividing the passenger cars by a partition, so as to secure
     separate accommodations."

     Sec. 2. That the conductors of such passenger trains shall have
     power and are hereby required to assign each passenger to the car
     or the compartment of a car (when it is divided by a partition)
     used for the race to which said passenger belongs; and that,
     should any passenger refuse to occupy the car to which he or she
     is assigned by such conductor, said conductor shall have the
     power to refuse to carry such passenger on his train and neither
     he nor the railroad company shall be liable for any damages in
     any event in this State.

     Sec. 3. That all railroad companies that shall refuse or
     neglect within sixty days after the approval of this act to
     comply with the requirements of section one of this act, shall be
     deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction in a
     court of competent jurisdiction, be fined not more than five
     hundred dollars; and any conductor that shall neglect to, or
     refuse to carry out the provisions of this act, shall, upon
     conviction, be fined not less than twenty-five nor more than
     fifty dollars for each offense.

     Sec. 4. That all acts and parts of acts in conflict with this
     act be, and the same are hereby repealed, and this act to take
     effect and be in force from and after passage. Acts of 1888, p.
     48.

[33] 133 U. S., 592.

[34] 163 U. S., 317.

[35] Ibid., 537.

[36] 169 U. S., 613, 645.

[37] 141 U. S., 61.

[38] In Pa. R. R. Co. v. Hughes (191 U. S., 489), Justice White says:

     "In the absence of Congressional legislation upon the subject an
     act of the Alabama legislature to require locomotive engineers to
     be examined and licensed by a board to be appointed by the
     governor for that purpose was sustained in Smith v. Alabama"
     (124 U. S., 465).

[39] 179 U. S., 393.

[40] 133 U. S., 587.

[41] 163 U. S., 537.

[42] 179 U. S., 388, 391.

[43] 133 U. S., 588.

[44] 218 U. S., 71.

[45] 235 U. S., 151.

[46] U. S., 18, 1907 Revised Statutes, 1910, Section 860, et seq.

[47] 100 U. S., 303.

[48] Ibid., 313.

[49] 103 U. S., 370.

[50] 162 U. S., 565.

[51] 107 U. S., 110.

[52] 162 U. S., 592.

[53] 163 U. S., 101.

[54] 167 U. S., 442.

[55] 192 U. S., 226.

[56] 200 U. S., 316.

[57] 218 U. S., 161.

[58] Laws of South Carolina, 1902, page 1066, section 2.

[59] 100 U. S., 371.

[60] 110 U. S., 651.

[61] 127 U. S., 731.

[62] 179 U. S., 58.

[63] 185 U. S.

[64] 189 U. S., 475.

[65] 193 U. S., 146.

[66] The Constitution of Mississippi prescribing the qualifications for electors conferred
upon the legislature the power to enact laws to carry those provisions into effect. Ability
to read any section of the Constitution or to understand it when read was made a qualification
necessary to a legal voter. Another provision made the qualifications for grand or petit jurors
that they should be able to read and write. Upon the complaint of Negroes thus disabled the
court held that these provisions do not on their face discriminate between white and Negro
races and do not amount to a denial of the equal protection of the law secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution. It had not been shown that their actual administration was evil,
but that only evil was possible under them.

In Washington County, Mississippi, Williams had been indicted for murder by a grand jury composed
of white men altogether. He moved that the indictment be quashed because the law by which the
grand jury was established was unconstitutional. (Williams v. Mississippi.)

[67] 193 U. S., 621.

[68] 238 U. S., 347.

[69] Ibid., 368.

[70] Ibid., 763.

[71] 175 U. S., 528.

[72] 120 U. S., 102.

[73] 202 U. S., 1.

[74] 110 U. S., 651.

[75] 144 U. S., 236, 286, 293.

[76] 92 U. S., 214, 217.

[77] 110 U. S., 651.

[78] 178 U. S., 458, 462.

[79] 9 Wheaton, 738.

REMY OLLIER, MAURITIAN JOURNALIST AND PATRIOT[1]

It is of interest to the Negro to know the patriots of the race who have blazed the path of
social progress in the various lands in which their lots have been cast. Not to all men is
it given to be great as the world counts greatness. Each of us, however, may have a task which,
if well done, may leave its impress upon the life of the community in which we live. These,
although obscure, efforts of the talented and persevering are the monuments which silently
mark the progress of the race. Remy Ollier was one of these obscure personalities; but yet,
a man whose career made such contributions to the life of Mauritius that he is regarded by
its people as one of the great figures in its political history. He was an educator, a journalist,
a patriot, and in some respects a liberator of his people.

Mauritius is an island under British control situated in the Indian Ocean. It is 550 miles
east of Madagascar, which lies off the east coast of Africa. Under the control of the French,
it was known as Ile de France. It is mountainous in character and its scenery is most beautiful
and picturesque. Its inhabitants may be divided into two main divisions: Europeans, chiefly
French and British; and African and Asiatic peoples. French appears to be more commonly spoken
than English, which accounts for the fact that the writings of Remy Ollier were in French.

The island was discovered by the Portuguese navigator, Mascarenhas in 1505. Until the sixteenth
century the island remained under the control of Portugal. In 1598, the Dutch seized it and
named it "Mauritius" in honor of its stadholder, Count Maurice of Nassau. The Dutch built a
fort there, introduced slaves and convicts, but they made no permanent settlements and, in
1710, it was abandoned. For a short time the island passed into the hands of the French East
India Company, and later it became a crown colony. During the colonial wars between France
and Great Britain, Mauritius was a source of much conflict. It was finally captured by the
British in 1810; and by the Treaty of Paris in 1814, the British were definitely granted control
of the island. Great Britain agreed, however, that the inhabitants should retain their own
laws, customs, religion and language, all of which were of French origin.

In 1833 slavery was abolished in the British possessions. The Reformed Parliament forced by
the denunciation of antislavery orators led by William Wilberforce, Thomas Clarkson, and Granville
Sharp, enacted a bill providing that Negro slavery should gradually cease in the colonies,
and that a compensation of £20,000,000 should be paid to the slaveholders. There were then
enacted laws removing proscription and the Negroes were supposed to enjoy the same political
rights as the whites; but the latter sought to make themselves the dominant element in Mauritius.
In 1834 there were about 66,000 Negroes on the island, which ten years later had a population
of 158,462.[2] Indian coolies were brought in to take the place of Negro slaves and many evils
attended their introduction. The situation was then as it was later in the United States when
the adjustment of freedmen to their new life was accompanied by painful experiences on the
part of both freedmen and their former masters. The planters resented the presence of the freedmen
and as far as possible their privileges were curtailed.[3] Militant agitators arose then among
the Negroes demanding justice for the oppressed. Among these leaders thus promoting the march
of the Negro population of Mauritius toward freedom were Adrien d'Epinay, whose prominence
is attested by a monument to be erected in his memory, and Remy Ollier, who still lives in
the hearts of his countrymen.

Remy Ollier was born at Grand Port on the island of Mauritius, October 16, 1816, six years
after the conquest of the island by the English. He was the fourth child of Benoit Ollier,
an artillery officer. His mother, J. Guillemeau, was a daughter of Dr. Guillemeau, a physician,
and formerly a member of the Legislative Council of the island. When eight years of age, Ollier
was sent to a private school taught by Captain Rault, a seaman who had served under Louis XVI.
This work was supplemented by lessons every Saturday under the Reverend Father Rock, who was
impressed with the boy's ability, and with the consent of his parents taught him the elements
of English and Latin. Allowed to use the library of Mr. Rault, Ollier early became acquainted
with the best literature. It is said that he had a very retentive memory and that he could
repeat and write at will long passages from his favorite authors.

About 1832, an unexpected reverse in fortune reduced Ollier's father to abject poverty, and
he died of a broken heart. Ollier, now scarcely sixteen, went to work as a clerk in a merchant's
office; but his mother, thinking that his future in a clerkship was limited, secured him a
place as an apprentice to a harness-maker. With a book in one hand and an awl in the other,
Ollier prepared himself for his future career. Opportunities in the larger fields of life were
closed to the Negro population as stated in the words of Ollier "that young men of the present
generation could but become handicraftsmen. This is the only field open to us. But we must
try to educate ourselves by all means; perseverance is the only key that opens the door to
success. At whatever social rank man may be placed, education alone may confer upon him a superiority."

In 1833 there occurred an incident which proved to be a turning point in his life. Several
members of the white population were charged with forming a conspiracy against British rule
in the island. Rumor had it further that they had gathered arms and ammunition, that they expected
to attack the British officials and restore the island to France. They were imprisoned and
were denied the writ of habeas corpus. Young Ollier had developed a keen interest in politics
and asked the permission of his employer to pay the men a visit. Later, he spent many of his
working hours at the court trials to which he seemed irresistibly drawn. His employer wrote
his mother stating that her son would never make a harness-maker; for he spent most of his
time either in study when in the shop or at the courts when he should have been at work. His
mother, whom he always loved, burned his books and reprimanded him for his conduct. For some
time, he remained at the harness shop, but finally gave up the work in order to pursue the
study he desired. Through his former friend, Mr. Rault, he obtained many books to replace the
ones which he had lost by the hasty action of his mother.

By tutoring the children in the village of Petite Riviere and in the town of Port Louis, he
managed to obtain a living. In 1837, he opened a private school in St. George street. It appears
that this venture was not successful, for he soon accepted a position in a "boarding school
conducted by Mr. Louis Barthelemy Raynaud, a white Mauritian Professor who did not scruple
to teach the young generations of the white as well as of the colored population." When not
engaged in tutoring at this school and the neighboring schools for young ladies, Ollier might
be found devouring books on metaphysics, morals, criticism and politics. He was asked by several
private institutions to give lessons in English, French and Geography; but while teaching others,
he himself was studying with Mr. H. N. D. Beyts, who twice filled the post of officer administering
the government. Ollier continued his work as a teacher until 1839. At the end of the school
year, prizes were distributed, and he had the pleasure of presenting a prize to Miss Louis
Sidonie Ferret whom he married in December, 1840.

About a year before his marriage, he bought the school from Mr. Raynaud, with the idea of enlarging
it according to his own plans; but this project failed for some unknown reason. He then undertook
a trip to India, which seems to have been successful. On his return, he entered business, opening
two large stores. His associate did not agree with him in his business plans and the business
was dissolved by legal process. He then resumed his position as a teacher in the boarding schools.
In 1841, he and his wife opened a school in the western suburb of Port Louis where the Negro
population could bring their children for a liberal education upon the payment of a moderate
fee. This helped him for a time to solve some of his financial problems but finally failed.

Ollier remained an insatiable reader. He took an active part in a literary club in Port Louis,
Le Société d'Emulation Intellectuelle, and this association helped greatly to increase his
knowledge of the literary world. He read literature, history, travels, philosophy, politics
and such authors as Lamennais, Montesquieu, Diderot, Rousseau, Voltaire, Adam Smith, Horace
Say, Ricardo and the like. He read not only because of his love of reading but because he was
ambitious to prepare himself for larger duties. The largest duty as he seemed to see it was
the freedom of his people from insult and injustice, and the recognition of his people upon
the same level as other Mauritians. Before the edict of emancipation, the Legislative Council
on June 22, 1829, had granted the free population of color the same civil rights and privileges
as other Mauritians possessed, but the local government had failed to carry out the enactment.
Remy Ollier felt that this was a blot on the fair name of his country, as well as an affront
to his people and longed to do his part in bringing about a change, which he believed could
be effected by a newspaper.

An unusual incident translated into action his idea of founding a newspaper. Alexander Dumas
had written a play entitled "Anthony," which is composed especially "to castigate morals by
exposing vice in opposition to virtue." A contributor to one of the two papers, Le Mauricien,
attacked the production of the play, and held up to ridicule the police authorities, who were
supposed to be vested with censorial powers. He also criticized the author as a Negro glorifying
adultery. The Negroes of the island became indignant and several answers were evoked. Remy
Ollier presented a strong defense for Dumas. Another vigorous defense was prepared by Evénor
Hitie, a writer of history. These articles were sent to the two papers of the island: Le Cerneen
and Le Mauricien, both of which refused to publish them. An Englishman, Mr. Edward Baker, the
owner of a printing plant, printed the two answers and circulated them in tract form.

The need of a newspaper became evident to the Negro population. In the time of Ollier, the
press was used chiefly for political purposes rather than for the dissemination of information.
Policies and parties were aided or hindered by the press, and this was its principal function.
Le Balance had been the champion for the government and the rights of the weaker groups; but
the editor, Mr. Berquin, was deported in 1833 because of utterances which were considered inimical
to the policies of the colonial government. Since 1833, there had been no paper to champion
the rights of the Negroes.

After the publication of the answers to the contributor of Le Mauricien, certain influential
members of the Negro population, among whom was Remy Ollier, called to see Sir Lionel Smith,
G.C.B., Baronet and Governor of the island of Mauritius. It is said that they were warmly received,
and that he was astonished to learn that the Negroes, a majority of whom were "the equals of
the whites by their stature, by their hearts and their intelligence," had no paper "to make
known their wishes and their complaints." He advised his hearers to start a paper, and he promised
to support their reasonable demands. But, dying in 1842, Sir Lionel Smith was unable to give
any assistance to the new publication.

Through the assistance of Mr. Edward Baker, the printer, the paper Le Sentinelle de Maurice
was started. The prospectus, written in French and in English appeared March 21, 1843, and
on Saturday, April 8, the first number of the paper came from the press. It was a weekly publication
with Ollier and Baker as the editors. The former wrote articles in French and the latter in
English, the articles of each being admirably written. Each one in his own sphere spoke with
great vehemence and elevation of mind for the cause of "liberty and justice." The paper was
read with avidity by the middle and lower classes, and the Negroes soon regarded Ollier as
their champion.

The first and most important fight which Ollier felt called upon to enter was the nomination
by the Governor of members to the Legislative Council in June, 1843. Ollier noticed that no
Negro member was nominated. The vacant seat was given to a white representative, Mr. Forster.
Ollier observed "that although a white man whose heart is right and whose intentions are pure
can represent the population of color," yet he considered the appointment "as an act that was
unjust, impolitic, undemocratic and unconstitutional." He added in explanation that the act
was unjust "because all the children of the mother-country, the white colonists especially,
were already represented in the Council, except the men of color, whose number is twice that
of other populations of the country; their destiny more illustrious, and the high state of
their experience, their education, their intelligence and their morals are the same as with
others; impolitic, because it discontents and disheartens the loyal and faithful British subjects
and might alienate from the government the hearts of those who have invariably remained attached
to it; undemocratic, and unconstitutional because the British constitution makes no exception
of any person, and because it desires that all its subjects should have an equal part in its
benefits."

In 1843, Ollier determined to have his paper appear three times a week, and for this purpose
he bought the printing plant of La Balance, the paper which had been forced to suspend its
publication ten years before. On the top of the first page of the paper, the royal arms of
Great Britain were placed with the motto "Honi soit qui mal y pense! Dieut et mon droit!" He
dedicated the paper to a strict vigilance over the abuse of power, "to redress the grievances
of the weak and to encourage merit in all classes, creed or color." Those who now assisted
him in the editorial work besides Mr. Baker, who edited the English page, were his wife, Emile
Sandapa, and Emile Bouchet, a lawyer, who later defended Ollier when he was sued for libel.
His editorials framed in animating language aroused his countrymen from their inaction and
awakened in them new hopes and aspirations.

Ollier again attacked the government and the party in power, because no place was made for
the Negro element in its civil service. In the first issue of La Sentinelle, he wrote, "From
day to day the Maurician Press develops a system entirely dangerous and which seems to have
this for a foundation--to discredit and debase English institutions and the English Government
in the eyes of all. Here are the consequences of this system--the government believing that
the opinions of the press are those of all the inhabitants of Maurice, has seen in us enemies
rather than loyal and faithful subjects, whence this continual defiance which has driven up
to now the people of color from all the public employment.... The organs of this country are
all in accord in saying that the government of the United Kingdom is pernicious to us, that
it long since desires and plans our ruin; and when our riches and our prosperity proclaim openly
the falseness of these allegations, they wish that England, who makes possible this well-being
for us, may not have a deep indignation against those who do not have even enough generosity
to recognize the benefits of their mother-country.... As for us, our mission is to call all
parties of our population to a united intelligence...." On October 22, 1844, he exclaimed,
regarding racial distinctions: "Education levels everything. An erudite man in any class is
equal to any other man having the same degree of education; he is a demi-god and is superior
to kings, when the latter are immersed in the darkness of ignorance."

Ollier continued the attacks upon the government because of its discrimination against its
citizens of color and yet he remained a lover of his country. Not only did he agitate through
the columns of paper, but also through other available channels. In 1843, he drafted a petition
to which many signatures were attached and sent it to Queen Victoria. This action has been
called the death-blow to the monopoly of the local parliament by the white population. The
petition was:

     "May it please your Majesty,--On various occasions the British
     Throne has been approached by individual members or collective
     bodies of the Mauritius community in the exercise of that
     inestimable privilege of your Majesty's faithful subjects, the
     right of petition; but hitherto, never has any prayer of the
     great majority of your Majesty's loyal and attached subjects in
     this island been thus presented to your Majesty's attention.

     "The colored classes of Mauritius, comprising a population of
     about 70,000, and including at least one third of the island's
     wealth and intelligence, although not deprived of any political
     right by the fundamental laws of the British realm, or by any act
     of Your Majesty's Parliament, actually enjoy but few privileges
     of British subjects; and can scarcely be said to have a political
     existence in the affairs of their native island.

     "Your Majesty's petitioners will refer to the fact of no
     individual of the coloured classes having a seat in the Council
     of Government; notwithstanding that there are many in the island
     in every respect qualified by riches, talents, education, and
     moral character, to occupy a place in that assembly.

     "Whilst therefore gratefully recognizing the equity and
     impartiality of the British laws and institutions, in which alone
     repose their best hopes for themselves and their children, your
     Majesty's petitioners humbly and reverently approach Your
     Imperial Throne with the prayer that, His Excellency the Governor
     of Mauritius may be authorized to call to his council one or more
     representatives of the people of colour in this island; or
     otherwise to grant to the country the privilege of electing its
     own representatives. Your Majesty's petitioners will only add the
     sincere declaration of their loyal and patriotic attachment to
     Your Majesty's person and Throne and Government; and your
     petitioners will ever pray."

In 1843, the editor of Le Cerneen, the oldest newspaper in the colony, was prosecuted, fined
and imprisoned for publishing a defamatory article against the magistrate of Port Louis. Ollier
had always advocated the freedom of the press, and he protested against the law which suppressed
free speech, and against the persecution of a fellow-journalist, although the latter was his
political enemy. Ollier's biographer adds: "Ollier indeed was an ardent lover and a good hater.
This noble heart and comprehensive mind made him understand his duty toward men. He forgot
enmity when fundamental principles were not adequately observed."

In 1844, there was established a rival newspaper, l'Esprit Public, to combat the policies of
Remy Ollier. It was edited by Mr. Bruils, who had been educated in Europe as a lawyer. He began
by finding fault with the style and grammatical form of Ollier's writing, but it is said that
the subject-matter of his editorials could be rarely attacked. Ollier's writings were always
hasty and he rarely took the time to polish them, while Bruil's style was more smooth and uniform.
Ollier's style, however, was easy and original. He replied effectively to the invective of
his enemies in prose and in verse. He seems to have had no difficulty in the composition of
his sentences nor did he take the pains which would seem to be necessary for the average man
to acquire the finished journalistic style. His motto was as he wrote a page "une feuille lue
aujourd'hui, oubliée demain." Therefore, he gave his copies to the compositors without rereading
them. He very often did not know where to end a paragraph and begin another. On the whole,
he is happily not obscure." His main effort was to state his idea and when he had made his
statement, he was not as careful as he should have been regarding the construction of the statement.
He consoled himself with the words, "Grammar is of man; the idea is of God."

His enemies, however, could not say that he was trying to overthrow the empire, for he was
merely struggling for the liberty guaranteed by the empire. "In all the British Empire," said
he, "there are no subjects more loyal than we. We are English today, we are not a conquered
people, we are English people." He was convinced that if England would give the rights of Englishmen
to the Mauritians, she would find them "as devoted as any children she could count in her bosom."
He added, however, "We belong to England. Why do we not possess the institutions of England?
If she wishes to make us love our nationality, to endow our island with that which makes for
the glory of our mother-country; this, we shall not be able to know or appreciate if we are
strangers to all that which makes it cherish its children and respect its people! At the sight
of our institutions, in the presence of the happenings in Mauritius, advancements ruined, individual
liberty violated, human life despised, one cannot believe that we belong to an English administration,
and that we are a part of the most democratic people in the world."

It was agitation of this type which brought about what may be considered the definite contributions
of Remy Ollier to Mauritian life: the creation of the Municipality, the Chambers of Commerce
and Agriculture, the opening of credits to the Negroes by the Mauritian Commercial Bank, the
reforms at the Royal College respecting the English Scholarships, and the employment of men
of color in the departments of the government. His attacks upon capital punishment and barbarous
prison treatment resulted in laws which mitigated the former harsh conditions, and his criticism
of the banking institutions in the crisis of 1843 led to considerable reform in that quarter.
His bitter attacks on political and social conditions made many enemies. One evening, he was
waylaid by several assailants and given a whipping. He was imprisoned, but he wrote in prison
as well as elsewhere.

His political activity was short, for in the early part of 1845, about two years after his
appearance in journalism, he died at the early age of 28 years, after a short illness due to
an inflammation of the intestines. Stoically he bore the bitter effects of his courageous utterances;
and when death came to him after only a short period of endeavor, both in the interests of
his own people, and also of the weaker classes of all groups, the success of his efforts had
just begun to appear. The name of Remy Ollier in Mauritian history, therefore, symbolizes perseverance
in the face of great obstacles, agitation as an instrument of social progress, patriotism as
it relates to the island of Mauritius, and justice respecting all classes and races. In 1916,
the centenary of his birth was celebrated in Port Louis. Then it was that the city and island
demonstrated its love and gratitude for Ollier, because of the services which he rendered the
colony in general and the population of color in particular. Remy Ollier was one of the unknown
leaders in the cause of freedom.

                                             CHARLES H. WESLEY

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This sketch is drawn largely from a pamphlet, presented to the Association for the study
of Negro Life and History by the author A. F. Fokeer. The author states that he has not had
access to all the material which he desired to use, for when he applied to the municipality
for one of the books concerning Ollier, he received an answer stating "that books written by
Mauritians, and published in the colony are by no means to be lent to anybody." Therefore,
the source from which most of our information is secured is A Biographical Sketch of the Life,
Work and Character of Remy Ollier by A. F. Fokeer, published by the General Printing and Stationery
Cy. Ld., 23 Church Street, Mauritius. 1917.

[2] Earlier figures are not available.

[3] General information concerning the island may be obtained from the following: Martin, The
British Possessions in Africa, Vol. IV.; Unienville, Statistique de l'île Maurice et ses dépendances;
Epinay, Renseignements pour servir à l'histoire de l'île de France; Decotter, Géographie de
Maurice et de ses dépendances; Chalmers, A History of Currency in the British Colonies; Anderson,
The Sugar Industry of Mauritius; Keller, Madagascar, Mauritius, and other East African Islands;
The Mauritius Almanac; The Mauritius Civil Lists; and Annual Colonial Reports.

A NEGRO COLONIZATION PROJECT IN MEXICO, 1895

The Negro question touched the relations of the United States and Mexico at several points.
For instance, the escape of runaway slaves into Mexico where slavery was legally forbidden,
was a factor in causing disturbances along the Rio Grande between 1850 and 1860.[1] Again,
during the following decade when the colonization of the freedmen became a vital issue, there
was at least one proposal to settle them on the border between the United States and Mexico.
It was urged that a strip of land extending from the Rio Grande to the Colorado and westward
to the mountains of New Mexico be set apart by the national government for this purpose. On
January 11, 1864, Honorable James H. Lane of Kansas actually introduced a bill looking to this
end, which received favorable consideration from the Committee on Territories, but so far as
has been ascertained never came to a vote in Congress.[2]

In support of his proposal Lane urged, among other things, that the colonization of the Negroes
on this frontier would prove beneficial to Mexico and tend to promote friendship between that
country and the United States. "We can thus plant at the door of Mexico," he said, "four million
good citizens, who can step in at any time, when invited, to strengthen the hands of that Republic."[3]
In similar vein the territorial committee, of which Lane was chairman, declared: "It is desirable
to cultivate friendly relations with the people of Mexico. It is known to us that among that
people there are no prejudices against the black man, and that intermarriage is not prohibited
either by law or custom.... It is confidently believed that the colony provided for in this
bill, by intermarriage with the people of those Mexican States, and friendly intercourse with
them, would so Americanize them as that they would be prepared and seek an annexation to our
then glorious free republic."[4]

The project which is the subject of this paper had no official element motivating it, however.
It was merely a private enterprise conducted for the profit of a Mexican land company and a
member of the Negro race;[5] and not until the scheme had failed did the United States government
take a hand. On December 11, 1894, H. Ellis,[6] a Negro, entered into a contract with the "Agricultural,
Industrial, and Colonization Company of Tlahualilo, Limited," for the transportation from the
United States by February 15, 1895, of one hundred colored families between the ages of twelve
and fifty. The company obligated itself to pay the passage of the colonists provided it did
not exceed $20, and after they were established upon the land, to furnish them agricultural
implements, stock, seed, and housing quarters, as well as $6 monthly during the first three
months, and thereafter a sum later to be agreed upon. Each family was to be given sixty acres
for cultivation, forty for cotton, fifteen for corn, and five for a garden.[7] The company
was to receive 40% of the yield of cotton and corn, the colonists 50%, and Ellis 10%. The colonists
were to have two years in which to pay for their passage; but, of course, the money advanced
for sustenance was to be paid from the first crop, except in the event of an extremely lean
year. The entire produce of the garden was to go to the Negroes. Stores were to be established
in the colony, the colonists were to have their cotton ginned at the gins of the company at
the rate of $1.50 per bale, and the company was to be given preference on all the produce sold.
The contract was to endure for a period of five years.[8]

Ellis set about immediately to fulfil his agreement. Going among the Negroes of Alabama and
Georgia, he issued a rather extravagant circular representing his proposition as presenting
the "greatest opportunity ever offered to the colored people of the United States to go to
Mexico, ... the country of 'God and Liberty.'" He declared that the land of his company would
easily produce a bale of cotton and from fifty to seventy-five bushels of corn per acre; spoke
of irrigation facilities which made them independent of the rain, of "fine game, such as deer,
bear, duck, and wild geese, and all manner of small game, as well as opossum," and of schools
and churches to be constructed; and sought especially to impress upon their minds the fact
that "the great Republic of Mexico extends to all of its citizens the same treatment--equal
rights to all, special privileges to none."[9]

A number of Negroes were soon attracted by the project and early in February they were ready
to set out. In fact, by the 6th a party had already arrived at the hacienda of the company,
situated some thirty miles east of Mapimi, Durango, in a rather "wild and inaccessible place"
several miles from a railway. On the 25th of the same month another group of colonists put
in their appearance, making a total of about 816.

It is interesting to note the section from which the Negroes came, and the size and composition
of the families which they brought. Twelve of the number came from Griffin, Georgia; all the
rest were from one of seven towns in Alabama; namely, Tuscaloosa, Gadsen, Williams, Eutaw,
Carter, Johns, and Birmingham. Of these towns Tuscaloosa furnished by far the greater number,
while Eutaw, Gadsen, and Birmingham came next. Only a comparatively small number came from
Williams, Carter, and Johns. Instead of having some three or four members as apparently designed
in the original contract, some of the families numbered six, eight, and even twelve; and the
number of women and children was disproportionately large.

When the colonists arrived at the hacienda they found the ground covered with snow. They were
crowded into small, leaky, adobe houses, without floors and with doors which could not be closed
tightly. The remainder of the winter and the following spring proved unusually rainy and unpleasant;
the food which they were given was probably of a somewhat inferior quality; and their tools
were clumsy and dull. These factors possibly account for their homesickness and alleged indisposition
to work. Moreover, the small number of able-bodied workingmen among them was disappointing
to the colonization company. Naturally enough, mutual dissatisfaction led to quarrels and difficulties.
As was to be expected, too, sickness soon visited the settlement, killing off large numbers
and terrifying the rest. A sort of liver disease broke out among them in April causing several
deaths, and this was followed early in July by the ravages of the smallpox.[10]

The first epidemic was sufficiently terrifying to cause some of the colonists to bolt their
contract and attempt to return to the United States. When the smallpox broke out it proved
to be too much for their sense of honor or any other restraining force. Those who were able
began precipitously to desert the settlement for the United States, apparently giving no attention
at all to the matter of sustenance for the journey. By the latter part of July all had left
except about fifty of the most persistent and faithful who chose to stay by their crops.[11]

The sufferings of these colonists while at Tlahualilo and on their way to the Rio Grande furnished
the press of the United States a sensational topic which it immediately seized upon. Indeed,
the first report which reached the United States through official circles was itself sufficiently
exaggerated to create excitement. On May 21, 1895, two fugitives from the colony arrived at
Chihuahua City where they related stories of oppression and brutal cruelty. One of them reported
that upon arriving at the colony the Negroes "found themselves in the worst form of bondage,
with no hope of ever securing liberty," and that no letter informing friends of their condition
and their suffering was ever permitted to reach the United States. He said he was one of a
party of some fifty who had stolen away in the hope of making their escape. The other Negro
declared that he was the sole survivor of a party of about forty which had likewise run away
from the settlement, but had been overtaken and slain by a band of Mexican guards in the employment
of the colonizing company. The consul of the United States at Chihuahua sent immediate notice
of the affair to the State Department.[12]

E. C. Butler, chargé of the United States in Mexico, was immediately notified and directed
to call upon the Mexican government to investigate the affair.[13] Meantime the consular officers
of the United States began an investigation of their own which tended to convince them that
the extravagant rumors regarding the cruelties perpetrated against the Negroes were totally
unfounded. On June 24, the consul at Piedras Negras, Jesse W. Sparks, forwarded a report which
he respectfully suggested should be given to the public "in order to contradict the terrible
stories of murder and bad treatment of these Negroes ... and deter other Negroes who contemplate
colonizing in Mexico." It was based upon a sworn statement made by the purported leader of
the runaways, a deposition of another of the colonists, and information received through a
traveller from New York City, who claimed to have visited the colony, as well as through a
civil engineer who was in the employment of the Mexican International Railroad. From the information
furnished by these witnesses Sparks drew the conclusion that the Mexican colonization company
had lived up to its contract, that the Negroes had not been cruelly treated while at the colony,
and that the report concerning the murder of a portion of the band[14] attempting to escape
was absolutely false. The Mexican soldiers alleged to have slain the Negroes were in fact a
relief party sent out by the company which, being acquainted with the barren and desolate nature
of the country which would have to be crossed in reaching the United States, surmised that
the lives of the colonists were in danger.[15]

Those who left the settlement after the smallpox epidemic broke out really suffered severely
from lack of food. Without money and without provisions, there would have been no alternative
but starvation or highway robbery, if the consular agents of the United States had not come
to the rescue. That they came and came effectively is evinced by the fact that very few of
the colonists actually died of starvation. One hundred and twenty-five of the Negroes arrived
at Mapimi about July 19 and sent a delegation from there to Torreón to appeal to the consul
for aid.[16] The agent at this place wrote to the consul at Durango for advice and help, while
at the same time he set about to raise funds by voluntary subscription. The consul at Durango
responded immediately with financial aid and suggested that the Negroes seek employment; but
the small number of the group which was able to work seemed disinclined to do so; and, to make
matters worse, the smallpox continued its ravages and in a measure precluded the possibility
of obtaining employment even if it had been desired.[17]

The consuls appealed at the same time to the authorities at Washington who replied at first
that there was no fund available for the relief of the destitute citizens. As early as July
26, however, General Bliss, who commanded the department of Texas, was ordered to send a physician
to help look after the sick and to place 1500 rations into the hands of Consul Sparks at Piedras
Negras; and the consul at Piedras Negras was directed, in case return to the colony was not
"practicable or consistent with humane considerations," to endeavor to persuade the railroad
companies to transport the Negroes to their homes under the promise of receiving remuneration
as soon as Congress could be prevailed upon to make an appropriation for that purpose.[18]

Meantime, the demoralized colonists were leaving their crops and making their way first to
Mapimi, and later to Torreón, where most of them caught the Mexican International to Eagle
Pass. Here they were received in a quarantine encampment especially prepared for them and given
clothes, provisions, and medical attention until the smallpox epidemic had been subdued. This
required considerable time and the expense was by no means small. Finally, by September 26,
those who had been taken into quarantine first were ready to leave, and on that date the Southern
Pacific took aboard 167 of them destined for New Orleans, from which point they were to be
transported by the Louisville and Nashville to Birmingham, Alabama. On October 4, another group
boarded the train; on October 10, another; on October 22, still another; and on November 3,
the last of the encampment left Eagle Pass. The last party reached New Orleans on the following
day and perhaps arrived at Birmingham on the 5th.[19]

Thus ended the colonization scheme of Ellis and the Mexican land company. It had cost the United
States Government more than twenty thousand dollars. It had cost the Tlahualilo Company about
seven thousand. But the Negroes themselves had borne the greatest losses. Seventy or more of
their number had found graves on the hacienda near Mapimi, 10 had died at Torreón, 8 while
en route from that station to Eagle Pass, and 60 in the encampment there, making a total of
about 148. Besides these, there were 250 not accounted for and half as many more scattered
and possibly separated for years from their friends and relatives. Only 334 left Eagle Pass
by train for their homes in Alabama, while the Louisville and Nashville records show that only
326 were taken aboard at New Orleans. What fate overtook the small number who chose to remain
with their crops has not been ascertained.[20]

                                             J. FRED RIPPY

  UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

FOOTNOTES:

[1] For a brief discussion of these disorders see the present writer's "Border Troubles Along
the Rio Grande, 1848-1860," in The Southwestern Historical Quarterly, XXIII, October, 1919,
pp. 91-111.

[2] Sen. Jour., 38 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 66, passim.

[3] Cong. Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 673.

[4] Sen. Report No. 8, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 2.

[5] This seems to have been only one of some three or four such undertakings attempted at the
time. See House Doc. No. 169, 54 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 44-45.

[6] Elsewhere written W. H. Ellis.

[7] Ellis's contract promised more than this in case of larger families. There are only a few
minor differences in the two.

[9] Ibid., p. 59.

[10] Dwyer's Report, and enclosures, ibid., pp. 42 ff.

[11] Ibid., pp. 23, 36, 42.

[12] Burke to Uhl, May 28, 1895, and enclosure, ibid., pp. 2-3.

[13] Olney to Butler, June 17, 1895, ibid., p. 5.

[14] It appears that only one band had tried to escape prior to July 18 or 19.

[15] Sparks to Uhl, June 24, 1895, and enclosure, ibid., pp. 6-11.

[16] Ibid., pp. 12, 16.

[17] Ibid., pp. 17-20.

[18] Sparks to Uhl, June 4, 1895, and enclosure, pp. 13-14.

[19] Ibid., p. 65.

[20] Sparks to Uhl, June 24, 1895, and enclosure, pp. 42, 65-66.

President Cleveland, in his message of December 2, 1895, urged an appropriation for the reimbursements
of the railroads, and on January 27, 1896, he sent a special message to Congress with reference
to the matter. Richardson, Messages and Papers, IX, 634, 664.

An appropriation for urgent deficiencies which was passed on February 26, 1896, contained the
following interesting item: "For the payment of the cost of transportation furnished by certain
railway companies in connection with the failure of the scheme for the colonization of negroes
in Mexico, necessitating their return to their homes in Alabama, ... five thousand and eighty-seven
dollars and nine cents." 29 U. S. Statutes at Large, p. 18.

DOCUMENTS

JAMES MADISON'S ATTITUDE TOWARD THE NEGRO

Like most of the Revolutionary leaders, James Madison, moved by the social and political upheaval
of that time thought seriously of the liberation of the slaves, largely for economic reasons.
He believed that the country should depend as little as possible on the labor of slaves, knowing
that their labor was not sufficiently skillful to furnish the basis for diversified industry.
He considered slavery "the great evil under which the nation labors."[1] On another occasion
he referred to it as a "portentous evil,"[2] and on still another "an evil, moral, political,
and economic, a sad blot on our free country."[3] When, therefore, petitions for the abolition
of slavery were presented to the legislature of Virginia, he did not frown upon the proposal
as a mischievous agitation as did so many others. Madison looked forward to the eventual extermination
of slavery through gradual methods of preparation for emancipation. Feeling that the thorough
incorporation of the blacks into the community of whites would be prejudicial to the interests
of the country, he had no other thought than that of deportation as a correlative of emancipation.
Along with a number of others he discussed the proposal to set apart certain western public
lands for the transplantation of the blacks from the slave holding States to free soil, but
as the white man by his pioneering efforts so rapidly pushed the frontier to the west as to
convince the country of the need of that territory for expansion, Madison soon receded from
this position and advocated along with most of the leading men of his time the colonization
of the Negroes in Africa.

Madison did not feel that there was any sure ground upon which Congress might participate in
the emancipation and the colonization of the Negroes. He suggested that the constitution be
amended. He even doubted that the Ordinance of 1787, enacted without authority, had the effect
of the emancipation of the slaves and was finally of the opinion that the right of Congress
to prohibit slavery in any territory during its territorial period, "depends on the clause
in the constitution specially providing for the management of these subordinate establishments."[4]
He was rather of the opinion that the restriction was not within the true scope of the constitution.
Like Jefferson, therefore, during the later years of his life, Madison saw many difficulties
in the way of abolishing slavery. He gave a sympathetic ear to the experiences of the Moravians,
Hermonites, and the Shakers, but although he had to concede that slavery impaired the influence
of the political example of the United States and was a blot on our republican character, he
never became what we could call an abolitionist for the reason that he found it difficult to
remove the Negroes from the country when freed. That being the case, he noted with some interest
the increase of the slave population, the increase in voluntary emancipation, and the progress
of the Colonization Society, to the presidency of which he was elected.[4]

                    TO ROBERT PLEASANTS

                                        PHILADELPHIA, October 30, 1791

     Sir,--The delay in acknowledging your letter of the 6th June
     last proceeded from the cause you conjectured. I did not receive
     it till a few days ago, when it was put into my hands by Mr.
     James Pemberton, along with your subsequent letter of the 8th
     August.

     The petition relating to the Militia bill contains nothing that
     makes it improper for me to present it. I shall, therefore,
     readily comply with your desire on that subject. I am not
     satisfied that I am equally at liberty with respect to the other
     petition. Animadversions such as it contains, and which the
     authorized object of the petitioners did not require, on the
     slavery existing in our country, are supposed by the holders of
     that species of property to lessen the value by weakening the
     tenure of it. Those from whom I derive my public station are
     known by me to be greatly interested in that species of property,
     and to view the matter in that light. It would seem that I might
     be chargeable at least with want of candour, if not of fidelity,
     were I to make use of a situation in which their confidence has
     placed me to become a volunteer in giving a public wound, as they
     would deem it, to an interest on which they set so great a value.
     I am the less inclined to disregard this scruple as I am not
     sensible that the event of the petition would in the least depend
     on the circumstance of its being laid before the House by this or
     that person.

     Such an application as that to our own Assembly, on which you ask
     my opinion, is a subject, in various respects, of great delicacy
     and importance. The consequences of every sort ought to be well
     weighed by those who would hazard it. From the view under which
     they present themselves to me, I cannot but consider the
     application as likely to do harm rather than good. It may be
     worth your own consideration whether it might not produce
     successful attempts to withdraw the privilege now allowed to
     individuals, of giving freedom to slaves. It would at least be
     likely to clog it with a condition that the person freed should
     be removed from the country; there being arguments of great force
     for such a regulation, and some would concur in it, who, in
     general, disapprove of the institution of slavery.

     I thank you, sir, for the friendly sentiments you have expressed
     towards me, and am, with respect, your obt, humble servt.[5]

                    TO ROBERT WALSH[6]

                                           MONTPELLIER, Mar. 2d, 1819.

     Dr Sir,--I received some days ago your letter of Feby 15, in
     which you intimate your intention to vindicate our Country
     against misrepresentations propagated abroad, and your desire of
     information on the subject of negro slavery, of moral character,
     of religion, and of education in Virginia, as affected by the
     Revolution, and our public Institutions.

     The general condition of slaves must be influenced by various
     causes. Among these are: 1. The ordinary price of food, on which
     the quality and quantity allowed them will more or less depend.
     This cause has operated much more unfavorably against them in
     some quarters than in Virginia. 2. The kinds of labour to be
     performed, of which the sugar and rice plantations afford
     elsewhere, and not here, unfavorable examples. 3. The national
     spirit of their masters, which has been graduated by philosophic
     writers among the slaveholding Colonies of Europe. 4. The
     circumstance of conformity or difference in the physical
     characters of the two classes; such a difference cannot but have
     a material influence, and is common to all the slaveholding
     countries within the American hemisphere. Even in those where
     there are other than black slaves, as Indians and mixed breeds,
     there is a difference of colour not without its influence. 5. The
     proportion which the slaves bear to the free part of the
     community, and especially the greater or smaller numbers in which
     they belong to individuals.

     This last is, perhaps, the most powerful of all the causes
     deteriorating the condition of the slave, and furnishes the best
     scale for determining the degree of its hardship.

     In reference to the actual condition of slaves in Virginia, it
     may be confidently stated as better, beyond comparison, than it
     was before the Revolution. The improvement strikes every one who
     witnessed their former condition, and attends to their present.
     They are better fed, better clad, better lodged, and better
     treated in every respect; insomuch, that what was formerly deemed
     a moderate treatment, would now be a rigid one, and what formerly
     a rigid one, would now be denounced by the public feelings. With
     respect to the great article of food particularly, it is a common
     remark among those who have visited Europe, that it includes a
     much greater proportion of the animal ingredient than is
     attainable by the free labourers even in that quarter of the
     Globe. As the two great causes of the melioration in the lot of
     the slaves since the establishment of our Independence, I should
     set down: 1. The sensibility to human rights, and sympathy with
     human sufferings, excited and cherished by the discussions
     preceding, and the spirit of the Institutions growing out of that
     event. 2. The decreasing proportion which the slaves bear to the
     individual holders of them; a consequence of the abolition of
     entails and the rule of primogeniture; and of the equalizing
     tendency of parental affection unfettered from all prejudices,
     as well as from the restrictions of law.

     With respect to the moral features of Virginia, it must be
     observed, that pictures which have been given of them are, to say
     the least, outrageous caricatures, even when taken from the state
     of society previous to the Revolution; and that so far as there
     was any ground or colour for them then, the same cannot be found
     for them now.

     Omitting more minute or less obvious causes, tainting the habits
     and manners of the people under the Colonial Government, the
     following offer themselves: 1. The negro slavery chargeable in so
     great a degree on the very quarter which has furnished most of
     the libellers. It is well known that during the Colonial
     dependence of Virginia, repeated attempts were made to stop the
     importation of slaves, each of which attempts was successively
     defeated by the foreign negative on the laws, and that one of the
     first offsprings of independent republican legislation was an act
     of perpetual prohibition.

            *       *       *       *       *

     With the exception of slavery, these demoralizing causes have
     ceased or are wearing out; and even that, as already noticed, has
     lost no small share of its former character. On the whole, the
     moral aspect of the State may, at present, be fairly said to bear
     no unfavorable comparison with the average standard of the other
     States. It certainly gives the lie to the foreign calumniators
     whom you propose to arraign.[7]

     TO ROBERT J. EVANS (AUTHOR OF THE PIECES PUBLISHED UNDER THE
                       NAME OF BENJAMIN RUSH).

                                           MONTPELLIER, June 15, 1819.

     Sir,--I have received your letter of the 3d instant, requesting
     such hints as may have occurred to me on the subject of an
     eventual extinguishment of slavery in the United States.

     Not doubting the purity of your views, and relying on the
     discretion by which they will be regulated, I cannot refuse such
     a compliance as will, at least, manifest my respect for the
     object of your undertaking.

     A general emancipation of slaves ought to be--1. Gradual. 2.
     Equitable, and satisfactory to the individual immediately
     concerned. 3. Consistent with the existing and durable prejudices
     of the nation.

     That it ought, like remedies for other deep-rooted and widespread
     evils, to be gradual, is so obvious, that there seems to be no
     difference of opinion on that point.

     To be equitable and satisfactory, the consent of both the master
     and the slave should be obtained. That of the master will require
     a provision in the plan for compensating a loss of what he held
     as property, guaranteed by the laws, and recognised by the
     Constitution. That of the slave, requires that his condition in a
     state of freedom be preferable, in his own estimation, to his
     actual one in a state of bondage.

     To be consistent with existing and probably unalterable
     prejudices in the United States, the freed blacks ought to be
     permanently removed beyond the region occupied by, or allotted
     to, a white population. The objections to a thorough
     incorporation of the two people, are, with most of the whites,
     insuperable; and are admitted by all of them to be very powerful.
     If the blacks, strongly marked as they are by physical and
     lasting peculiarities, be retained amid the whites, under the
     degrading privation of equal rights, political or social, they
     must be always dissatisfied with their condition, as a change
     only from one to another species of oppression; always secretly
     confederating against the ruling and privileged class; and always
     uncontrolled by some of the most cogent motives to moral and
     respectable conduct. The character of the free blacks even where
     their legal condition is least affected by their color, seems to
     put these truths beyond question. It is material, also, that the
     removal of the blacks to be a distance precluding the jealousies
     and hostilities to be apprehended from a neighboring people,
     stimulated by the contempt known to be entertained for their
     peculiar features; to say nothing of their vindictive
     recollections, or the predatory propensities which their state of
     society might foster. Nor is it fair, in estimating the danger of
     collisions with the whites, to charge it wholly on the side of
     the black. There would be reciprocal antipathies doubling the
     danger.

     The colonizing plan on foot has, as far as it extends, a due
     regard to these requisites; with the additional object of
     bestowing new blessings, civil and religious, on the quarter of
     the Globe most in need of them. The Society proposes to
     transport to the African coast all free and freed blacks who may
     be willing to remove thither; to provide by fair means, and, it
     is understood, with a prospect of success, a suitable territory
     for their reception; and to initiate them into such an
     establishment as may gradually and indefinitely expand itself.

     The experiment, under this view of it, merits encouragement from
     all who regard slavery as an evil, who wish to see it diminished
     and abolished by peaceable and just means, and who have
     themselves no better mode to propose. Those who have most doubted
     the success of the experiment must, at least, have wished to find
     themselves in an error.

     But the views of the Society are limited to the case of blacks,
     already free, or who may be gratuitously emancipated. To
     provide a commensurate remedy for the evil, the plan must be
     extended to the great mass of blacks, and must embrace a fund
     sufficient to induce the master, as well as the slave, to concur
     in it. Without the concurrence of the master, the benefit will be
     very limited as it relates to the negroes, and essentially
     defective as it relates to the United States; and the concurrence
     of masters must, for the most part, be obtained by purchase.

     Can it be hoped that voluntary contributions, however adequate to
     an auspicious commencement, will supply the sums necessary to
     such an enlargement of the remedy? May not another question be
     asked? Would it be reasonable to throw so great a burden on the
     individuals distinguished by their philanthropy and patriotism?

     The object to be obtained, as an object of humanity, appeals
     alike to all; as a national object, it claims the interposition
     of the nation. It is the nation which is to reap the benefit. The
     nation, therefore, ought to bear the burden.

     Must, then, the enormous sums required to pay for, to transport,
     and to establish in a foreign land, all the slaves in the United
     States, as their masters may be willing to part with them, be
     taxed on the good people of the United States, or be obtained by
     loans, swelling the public debt to a size pregnant with evils
     next in degree to those of slavery itself?

     Happily, it is not necessary to answer this question by
     remarking, that if slavery, as a national evil, is to be
     abolished, and it be just that it be done at the national
     expense, the amount of the expense is not a paramount
     consideration. It is the peculiar fortune, or, rather, a
     providential blessing of the United States, to possess a resource
     commensurate to this great object, without taxes on the people,
     or even an increase of the public debt.

     I allude to the vacant territory, the extent of which is so vast,
     and the vendible value of which is so well ascertained.

     Supposing the number of slaves to be 1,500,000, and their price
     to average 400 dollars, the cost of the whole would be 600
     millions of dollars. These estimates are probably beyond the
     fact; and from the number of slaves should be deducted; 1. Those
     whom their masters would not part with. 2. Those who may be
     gratuitously set free by their masters. 3. Those acquiring
     freedom under emancipating regulations of the States. 4. Those
     preferring slavery where they are to freedom in an African
     settlement. On the other hand, it is to be noted that the expense
     of removal and settlement is not included in the estimated sum;
     and that an increase of the slaves will be going on during the
     period required for the execution of the plan.

     On the whole, the aggregate sum needed may be stated at about six
     hundred millions of dollars.

     This will require 200 millions of acres, at three dollars per
     acre; or 300 millions at two dollars per acre; a quantity which,
     though great in itself, is perhaps not a third part of the
     disposable territory belonging to the United States. And to what
     object so good, so great, and so glorious, could that peculiar
     fund of wealth be appropriated? Whilst the sale of territory
     would, on one hand, be planting one desert with a free and
     civilized people, it would, on the other, be giving freedom to
     another people, and filling with them another desert. And if in
     any instance wrong has been done by our forefathers to people of
     one colour, by dispossessing them of their soil, what better
     atonement is now in our power than that of making what is
     rightfully acquired a source of justice and of blessings to a
     people of another colour?

     As the revolution to be produced in the condition of the negroes
     must be gradual, it will suffice if the sale of territory keep
     pace with its progress. For a time, at least, the proceeds would
     be in advance. In this case, it might be best, after deducting
     the expense incident to the surveys and sales, to place the
     surplus in a situation where its increase might correspond with
     the natural increase of the unpurchased slaves. Should the
     proceeds at any time fall short of the calls for their
     application, anticipations might be made by temporary loans, to
     be discharged as the land should find a market.

     But it is probable that for a considerable period the sales would
     exceed the calls. Masters would not be willing to strip their
     plantations and farms of their labourers so rapidly. The slaves
     themselves connected, as they generally are, by tender ties with
     others under other masters, would be kept from the list of
     emigrants by the want of the multiplied consents to be obtained.
     It is probable, indeed, that for a long time a certain portion of
     the proceeds might safely continue applicable to the discharge of
     the debts or to other purposes of the nation, or it might be most
     convenient, in the outset, to appropriate a certain proportion
     only of the income from sales to the object in view, leaving the
     residue otherwise applicable.

     Should any plan similar to that I have sketched be deemed
     eligible in itself, no particular difficulty is foreseen from
     that portion of the nation, which, with a common interest in the
     vacant territory, has no interest in slave property. They are too
     just to wish that a partial sacrifice should be made for the
     general good, and too well aware that whatever may be the
     intrinsic character of that description of property, it is one
     known to the Constitution, and, as such could not be
     constitutionally taken away without just compensation. That part
     of the nation has, indeed, shewn a meritorious alacrity in
     promoting, by pecuniary contributions, the limited scheme for
     colonizing the blacks, and freeing the nation from the
     unfortunate stain on it, which justifies the belief that any
     enlargement of the scheme, if founded on just principles, would
     find among them its earliest and warmest patrons. It ought to
     have great weight that the vacant lands in question have, for the
     most part, been derived from grants of the States holding the
     slaves to be redeemed and removed by the sale of them.

     It is evident, however, that in effectuating a general
     emancipation of slaves in the mode which has been hinted,
     difficulties of other sorts would be encountered. The provision
     for ascertaining the joint consent of the masters and slaves; for
     guarding against unreasonable valuations of the latter; and for
     the discrimination of those not proper to be conveyed to a
     foreign residence, or who ought to remain a charge on masters in
     whose service they had been disabled or worn out, and for the
     annual transportation of such numbers, would require the mature
     deliberations of the national councils. The measure implies
     also, the practicability of procuring in Africa an enlargement of
     the district or districts for receiving the exiles sufficient for
     so great an augmentation of their numbers.

     Perhaps the Legislative provision best adapted to the case would
     be an incorporation of the Colonizing Society, or the
     establishment of a similar one, with proper powers, under the
     appointment and superintendence of the National Executive.

     In estimating the difficulties, however, incident to any plan of
     general emancipation, they ought to be brought into comparison
     with those inseparable from other plans, and be yielded to or not
     accordingly to the result of the comparison.

     One difficulty presents itself which will probably attend every
     plan which is to go into effect under the Legislative provisions
     of the National Government. But whatever may be the effect of
     existing powers of Congress, the Constitution has pointed out the
     way in which it can be supplied. And it can hardly be doubted
     that the requisite powers might readily be procured for attaining
     the great object in question, in any mode whatever approved by
     the nation.

     If these thoughts can be of any aid in your search of a remedy
     for the great evil under which the nation labors, you are very
     welcome to them.[8]

                    TO TENCH COXE.

                                           MONTPELIER, March 20, 1820.

     I am glad to find you still sparing moments for subjects
     interesting to the public welfare. The remarks on the thorny one
     to which you refer in the "National Recorder," seem to present
     the best arrangement for the unfortunate part of our population
     whose case has enlisted the anxiety of so many benevolent minds,
     next to that which provides a foreign outlet and location for
     them. I have long thought that our vacant territory was the
     resource which, in some mode or other, was most applicable and
     adequate as a gradual cure for the portentous evil; without,
     however, being unaware that even that would encounter serious
     difficulties of different sorts.[9]

                    TO GENERAL LAFAYETTE.

                                            MONTPELIER, NOV. 25, 1820.

  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     The subject which ruffles the surface of public affairs most, at
     present, is furnished by the transmission of the "Territory" of
     Missouri from a state of nonage to a maturity for
     self-Government, and for a membership in the Union. Among the
     questions involved in it, the one most immediately interesting to
     humanity is the question whether a toleration or prohibition of
     slavery Westward of the Mississippi would most extend its evils.
     The human part of the argument against the prohibition turns on
     the position, that whilst the importation of slaves from abroad
     is precluded, a diffusion of those in the Country tends at once
     to meliorate their actual condition, and to facilitate their
     eventual emancipation. Unfortunately, the subject, which was
     settled at the last session of Congress by a mutual concession of
     the parties, is reproduced on the arena by a clause in the
     Constitution of Missouri, distinguishing between free persons of
     colour and white persons, and providing that the Legislature of
     the new State shall exclude from it the former. What will be the
     issue of the revived discussion is yet to be seen. The case opens
     the wider field, as the Constitution and laws of the different
     States are much at variance in the civic character giving to free
     persons of colour; those of most of the States, not excepting
     such as have abolished slavery, imposing various
     disqualifications, which degrade them from the rank and rights of
     white persons. All these perplexities develope more and more the
     dreadful fruitfulness of the original sin of the African
     trade.[10]

                    TO F. CORBIN

                                                    November 26, 1820.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     I do not mean to discuss the question how far slavery and
     farming are incompatible. Our opinions agree as to the evil,
     moral, political, and economical, of the former. I still think,
     notwithstanding, that under all the disadvantages of slave
     cultivation, much improvement in it is practicable. Proofs are
     annually taking place within my own sphere of observation;
     particularly where slaves are held in small numbers, by good
     masters and managers. As to the very wealthy proprietors, much
     less is to be said. But after all, (protesting against any
     inference of a disposition to undertake the evil of slavery,) is
     it certain that in giving to your wealth a new investment, you
     would be altogether freed from the cares and vexations incident
     to the shape it now has? If converted into paper, you already
     feel some of the contingencies belonging to it; if into
     commercial stock, look at the wrecks every where giving warning
     of the danger. If into large landed property, where there are no
     slaves, will you cultivate it yourself? Then beware of the
     difficulty of procuring faithful or complying labourers. Will you
     dispose of it in leases? Ask those who have made the experiment
     what sort of tenants are to be found where an ownership of the
     soil is so attainable. It has been said that America is a country
     for the poor, not for the rich. There would be more correctness
     in saying it is the country for both, where the latter have a
     relish for free government; but, proportionally, more for the
     former than for the latter.[11]

                    TO GENERAL LA FAYETTE.

                                                                 1821.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     The negro slavery is, as you justly complain, a sad blot on our
     free country, though a very ungracious subject of reproaches from
     the quarter which has been most lavish of them. No satisfactory
     plan has yet been devised for taking out the stain. If an asylum
     could be found in Africa, that would be the appropriate
     destination for the unhappy race among us. Some are sanguine that
     the efforts of an existing Colonization Society will accomplish
     such a provision; but a very partial success seems the most that
     can be expected. Some other region must, therefore, be found for
     them as they become free and willing to emigrate. The repugnance
     of the whites to their continuance among them is founded on
     prejudices, themselves founded on physical distinctions, which
     are not likely soon, if ever, to be eradicated. Even in States,
     Massachusetts for example, which displayed most sympathy with the
     people of colour on the Missouri question, prohibitions are
     taking place against their becoming residents. They are every
     where regarded as a nuisance, and must really be such as long as
     they are under the degradation which public sentiment inflicts on
     them. They are at the same time rapidly increasing from
     manumissions and from offspring, and of course lessening the
     general disproportion between the slaves and the whites. This
     tendency is favorable to the cause of a universal
     emancipation."[12]

                    TO DR. MORSE

                                                        March 28, 1823

     Queries.

     1. Do the planters generally live on their own estates?

     2. Does a planter with ten or fifteen slaves employ an
     overlooker, or does he overlook his slaves himself?

     3. Obtain estimates of the culture of Sugar and Cotton, to show
     what difference it makes where the planter resides on his estate,
     or where he employs attorneys, overlookers, &c.

     4. Is it a common or general practice to mortgage slave estates?

     5. Are sales of slave estates very frequent under execution for
     debt and what proportion of the whole may be thus sold annually?

     6. Does the Planter possess the power of selling the different
     branches of a family separate?

     7. When the prices of produce, Cotton Sugar, &c., are high, do
     the Planters purchase, instead of raising, their corn and other
     provisions?

     8. When the prices of produce are low, do they then raise their
     own corn and other provisions?

     9. Do the negroes fare better when the Corn, &c., is raised upon
     their master's estate or when he buys it?

     10. Do the tobacco planters in America ever buy their own Corn or
     other food, or do they always raise it?

     11. If they always, or mostly, raise it, can any other reason be
     given for the differences of the system pursued by them and that
     pursued by the Sugar and Cotton planters than that cultivation of
     tobacco is less profitable than that of Cotton or Sugar?

     12. Do any of the Planters manufacture the packages for their
     product, or the clothing for their negroes and if they do, are
     their negroes better clothed than when clothing is purchased?

     13. Where, and by whom, is the Cotton bagging of the Brazils
     made? is it principally made by free men or slaves?

     14. Is it the general system to employ the negroes in task work,
     or by the day?

     15. How many hours are they generally at work in the former case?
     how many in the latter? Which system is generally preferred by
     the master? which by the slaves?

     16. Is it common to allow them a certain portion of time instead
     of their allowance of provisions? In this case, how much is
     allowed? Where the slaves have the option, which do they
     generally choose? On which system do the slaves look the best,
     and acquire the most comforts?

     17. Are there many small plantations where the owners possess
     only a few slaves? What proportion of the whole may be supposed
     to be held in this way?

     18. In such cases, are the slaves treated or almost considered a
     part of the family?

     19. Do the slaves fare best when their situations and that of the
     master are brought nearest together?

     20. In what state are the slaves as to religion or religious
     instruction?

     21. Is it common for the slaves to be regularly married?

     22. If a man forms an attachment to a woman on a different or
     distant plantation, is it the general practice for some
     accommodation to take place between the owners of the man and
     woman, so that they may live together?

     23. In the United States of America, the slaves are found to
     increase at about the rate of 3 P cent. P annum. Does the same
     take place in other places? Give a census, if such is taken. Show
     what cause contributes to this increase, or what prevents it
     where it does not take place.

     24. Obtain a variety of estimates from the Planters of the cost
     of bringing up a child, and at what age it becomes a clear gain
     to its owner.

     25. Obtain information respecting the comparative cheapness of
     cultivation by slaves or by free men.

     26. Is it common for the free blacks to labour in the field?

     27. Where the labourers consist of free blacks and of white men,
     what are the relative prices of their labour when employed about
     the same work?

     28. What is the proportion of free blacks and slaves?

     29. Is it considered that the increase in the proportion of free
     blacks to slaves increases or diminishes the danger of
     insurrection?

     30. Are the free blacks employed in the defence of the Country,
     and do they and the Creoles preclude the necessity of European
     troops?

     31. Do the free blacks appear to consider themselves as more
     closely connected with the slaves or with the white population?
     and in cases of insurrection, with which have they generally
     taken part?

     32. What is their general character with respect to industry and
     order, as compared with that of the slaves?

     33. Are there any instances of emancipation in particular
     estates, and what is the result?

     34. Is there any general plan of emancipation in progress, and
     what?

     35. What was the mode and progress of emancipation in those
     States in America where slavery has ceased to exist?

  Hon. James Madison, Esq.

                                             New Haven, Mar. 14, 1823.

     Sir.--The foregoing was transmitted to me from a respectable
     correspondent in Liverpool, deeply engaged in the abolition of
     the slave trade, and the amelioration of the condition of slaves.
     If, sir, your leisure will allow you, and it is agreeable to you
     to furnish brief answers to these questions, you will, I
     conceive, essentially serve the cause of humanity, and gratify
     and oblige the Society above named, and, Sir, with high
     consideration and esteem, your most obt servt,

                                             JED'H MORSE.

     Answers

     1. Yes.

     2. Employs an overseer for that number of slaves, with few
     exceptions.

     3. ----

     4. Not uncommonly the land; sometimes the slaves; very rarely
     both together.

     5. The common law, as in England, governs the relation between
     land and debts; slaves are often sold under execution for debt;
     the proportion to the whole cannot be great within a year, and
     varies, of course, with the amount of debt and the urgency of
     creditors.

     6. Yes.

     7-10. Instances are rare where the tobacco planters do not raise
     their own provisions.

     11. The proper comparison, not between the culture of tobacco and
     that of sugar and cotton, but between each of these cultures and
     that of provisions. The tobacco planter finds it cheaper to make
     them a part of his crop than to buy them. The cotton and sugar
     planters to buy them, where this is the case, than to raise them.
     The term, cheaper, embraces the comparative facility and
     certainty of procuring the supplies.

     12. Generally best clothed when from the household manufactures,
     which are increasing.

     14, 15. Slaves seldom employed in regular task work. They prefer
     it only when rewarded with the surplus time gained by their
     industry.

     16. Not the practice to substitute an allowance of time for the
     allowance of provisions.

     17. Very many, and increasing with the progressive subdivisions
     of property; the proportion cannot be stated.

     18, 19. The fewer the slaves, and the fewer the holders of
     slaves, the greater the indulgence and familiarity. In districts
     composing (comprising?) large masses of slaves there is no
     difference in their condition, whether held in small or large
     numbers, beyond the difference in the dispositions of the owners,
     and the greater strictness of attention where the number is
     greater.

     20. There is no general system of religious instruction. There
     are few spots where religious worship is not within reach, and to
     which they do not resort. Many are regular members of
     Congregations, chiefly Baptist; and some Preachers also, though
     rarely able to read.

     21. Not common; but the instances are increasing.

     22. The accommodation not unfrequent where the plantations are
     very distant. The slaves prefer wives on a different plantation,
     as affording occasions and pretexts for going abroad, and
     exempting them on holidays from a share of the little calls to
     which those at home are liable.

     23. The remarkable increase of slaves, as shown by the census,
     results from the comparative defect of moral and prudential
     restraint on the sexual connexion; and from the absence, at the
     same time, of that counteracting licentiousness of intercourse,
     of which the worst examples are to be traced where the African
     trade, as in the West Indies, kept the number of females less
     than of the males.

     24. The annual expense of food and raiment in rearing a child may
     be stated at about 8, 9, or 10 dollars; and the age at which it
     begins to be gainful to its owner about 9 or 10 years.

     25. The practice here does not furnish data for a comparison of
     cheapness between these two modes of cultivation.

     26. They are sometimes hired for field labour in time of harvest,
     and on other particular occasions.

     27. The examples are too few to have established any such
     relative prices.

     28. See the census.

     29. Rather increases.

     30. ----------

     31. More closely with the slaves, and more likely to side with
     them in a case of insurrection.

     32. Generally idle and depraved; appearing to retain the bad
     qualities of the slaves, with whom they continue to associate,
     without acquiring any of the good ones of the whites, from whom
     (they) continued separated by prejudices against their colour,
     and other peculiarities.

     33. There are occasional instances in the present legal condition
     of leaving the State.

     34. None.

     35. ----------[13]

                    TO MISS FRANCES WRIGHT

                                           MONTPELLIER, Sept. 1, 1825.

     Dear Madam,--Your letter to Mrs. Madison, containing
     observations addressed to my attention also, came duly to hand,
     as you will learn from her, with a printed copy of your plan for
     the gradual abolition of slavery in the United States.

     The magnitude of this evil among us is so deeply felt, and so
     universally acknowledged, that no merit could be greater than
     that of devising a satisfactory remedy for it. Unfortunately the
     task, not easy under other circumstances, is vastly augmented by
     the physical peculiarities[14] of those held in bondage, which
     preclude their incorporation with the white population; and by
     the blank in the general field of labour to be occasioned by
     their exile; a blank into which there would not be an influx of
     white labourers, successively taking the place of the exiles, and
     which, without such an influx, would have an effect distressing
     in prospect to the proprietors of the soil.

     The remedy for the evil which you have planned is certainly
     recommended to favorable attention by the two characteristics: 1.
     That it requires the voluntary concurrence of the holders of the
     slaves, with or without pecuniary compensation. 2. That it
     contemplates the removal of those emancipated, either to a
     foreign or distant region. And it will still further obviate
     objections, if the experimental establishments should avoid the
     neighborhood of settlements where there are slaves.

     With reference to this dissimilarity, and to the doubt as to the
     advantages of associated labour, it may deserve consideration
     whether the experiment would not be better commenced on a scale
     smaller than that assumed in the prospectus. A less expensive
     outfit would suffice; labourers in the proper proportions of sex
     and age would be more attainable; the necessary discipline and
     the direction of their labours could be more simple and
     manageable; and but little time would be lost; or, perhaps, time
     gained; as success, for which the chance would, according to my
     calculation, be increased, would give an encouraging aspect, to
     the plan, and probably suggest improvements better qualifying it
     for the larger scale proposed.

     Such, Madam, are the general ideas suggested by your interesting
     communication. If they do not coincide with yours, and imply less
     of confidence than may be due to the plan you have formed, I hope
     you will not question either my admiration of the generous
     philanthropy which dictated it, or my sense of the special regard
     it evinces for the honor and welfare of our expanding, and, I
     trust, rising Republic.

     As it is not certain what construction would be put on the view
     I have taken of the subject, I leave it with your discretion to
     withhold it altogether, or to disclose it within the limits you
     allude to; intimating only that it will be most agreeable to me,
     on all occasions, not to be brought before the public where there
     is no obvious call for it.

Writing to General Lafayette in 1826, Madison commented thus on the proposal of Miss Frances
Wright for the uplift of Negroes.

     You possess, notwithstanding your distance, better information
     concerning Miss Wright, and her experiment, than we do here. We
     learn only that she has chosen for it a remote spot in the
     western part of Tennessee, and has commenced her enterprise; but
     with what prospects we know not. Her plan contemplated a
     provision for the expatriation of her Elèves, but without
     specifying it; from which I infer the difficulty felt in devising
     a satisfactory one. Could this part of the plan be ensured, the
     other essential part would come about of itself. Manumissions now
     more than keep pace with the outlets provided, and the increase
     of them is checked only by their remaining in the Country. This
     obstacle removed, and all others would yield to the emancipating
     disposition. To say nothing of partial modes, what would be more
     simple, with the requisite grant of power to Congress, than to
     purchase all female infants at their birth, leaving them in the
     service of the holder to a reasonable age, on condition of their
     receiving an elementary education? The annual number of female
     births may be stated at twenty thousand, and the cost at less
     than one hundred dollars each, at the most; a sum which would not
     be felt by the nation, and be even within the compass of State
     resources. But no such effort would be listened to, whilst the
     impression remains, and it seems to be indelible, that the two
     races cannot co-exist, both being free and equal. The great sine
     qua non, therefore, is some external asylum for the coloured
     race. In the mean time, the taunts to which this misfortune
     exposes us in Europe are the more to be deplored, because it
     impairs the influence of our political example; though they come
     with an ill grace from the quarter most lavish of them, the
     quarter which obtruded the evil, and which has but lately become
     a penitent, under suspicious appearances.[16]

                    TO JOSEPH C. CABELL

                                         MONTPELLIER, January 5, 1829.

     Dear Sir,--I have received yours of December 28, in which you
     wish me to say something of the agitated subject of the basis of
     representation in the contemplated convention for revising the
     State Constitution. In a case depending so much on local views
     and feelings, and perhaps on the opinions of leading individuals,
     and in which a mixture of compromises with abstract principles
     may be resorted to, your judgment, formed on the theatre
     affording the best means of information, must be more capable of
     aiding mine than mine yours.

     What occurs to me is, that the great principle "that man cannot
     be justly bound by laws, in making which they have no share,"
     consecrated as it is by our Revolution and the Bill of Rights,
     and sanctioned by examples around us, is so engraven on the
     public mind here, that it ought to have a preponderating
     influence in all questions involved in the mode of forming a
     convention, and in discharging the trust committed to it when
     formed. It is said that west of the Blue Ridge the votes of
     non-freeholders are often connived at, the candidates finding it
     unpopular to object to them.

     With respect to the slaves, they cannot be admitted as persons
     into the representation, and probably will not be allowed any
     claim as a privileged property. As the difficulty and
     disquietude on that subject arise mainly from the great
     inequality of slaves in the geographical division of the country,
     it is fortunate that the cause will abate as they become more
     diffused, which is already taking place; transfers of them from
     the quarters where they abound, to those where labourers are more
     wanted being a matter of course.

     Is there, then, to be no constitutional provision for the rights
     of property, when added to the personal rights of the holders,
     against the will of a majority having little or no direct
     interest in the rights of property? If any such provision be
     attainable beyond the moral influence which property adds to
     political rights, it will be most secure and permanent if made by
     a convention chosen by a general suffrage, and more likely to be
     so made now than at a future stage of population. If made by a
     freehold convention in favour of freeholders, it would be less
     likely to be acquiesced in permanently.[17]

                    TO GENERAL LA FAYETTE

                                                         Feb. 1, 1830.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     Your anticipation with regard to the slavery among us were the
     natural offspring of your just principles and laudable
     sympathies; but I am sorry to say that the occasion which led to
     them proved to be little fitted for the slightest interposition
     on that subject. A sensibility, morbid in the highest degree, was
     never more awakened among those who have the largest stake in
     that species of interest, and the most violent against any
     governmental movement in relation to it. The excitability at the
     moment, happened, also, to be not a little augmented by party
     questions between the South and the North, and the efforts used
     to make the circumstance common to the former a sympathetic bond
     of co-operation. I scarcely express myself too strongly in saying
     that any allusion in the Convention to the subject you have so
     much at heart would have been a spark to a mass of gunpowder. It
     is certain, nevertheless, that time, the great "Innovator," is
     not idle in its salutary preparations. The Colonization Society
     are becoming more and more one of its agents. Outlets for the
     freed blacks are alone wanted for a rapid erasure of the blot
     from our Republican character.[18]

                    TO ---- ----

                                                        June 28, 1831.

     But the title in the people of the United States rests on a
     foundation too just and solid to be shaken by any technical or
     metaphysical arguments whatever. The known and acknowledged
     intentions of the parties at the time, with a prescriptive
     sanction of so many years consecrated by the intrinsic principles
     of equity, would overrule even the most explicit declarations and
     terms, as has been done without the aid of that principle in the
     slaves, who remain such in spite of the declarations that all men
     are born equally free.[19]

                    TO MATTHEW CAREY

                                             MONTPELIER, July 7, 1831.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     If the States cannot live together in harmony under the auspices
     of such a Government as exists, and in the midst of blessings
     such as have been the fruits of it, what is the prospect
     threatened by the abolition of a common Government, with all the
     rivalships, collisions and animosities inseparable from such an
     event? The entanglements and conflicts of commercial regulations,
     especially as affecting the inland and other non-importing
     States, and a protection of fugitive slaves substituted for the
     obligatory surrender of them, would, of themselves, quickly
     kindle the passions which are the forerunners of war.[20]

To R. R. Gurley, a promoter of colonization, Madison wrote the following December 28, 1831:

     Dear Sir,--I received in due time your letter of the 21 ultimo,
     and with due sensibility to the subject of it. Such, however, has
     been the effect of a painful rheumatism on my general condition,
     as well as in disqualifying my fingers for the use of the pen,
     that I could not do justice "to the principles and measures of
     the Colonization Society, in all the great and various relations
     they sustain in our country and to Africa." If my views of them
     could have the value which your partiality supposes, I may
     observe, in brief, that the Society had always my good wishes,
     though with hopes of its success less sanguine than were
     entertained by others found to have been the better judges; and
     that I feel the greatest pleasure at the progress already made by
     the Society, and the encouragement to encounter the remaining
     difficulties afforded by the earlier and greater ones already
     overcome. Many circumstances at the present moment seem to concur
     in brightening the prospects of the Society, and cherishing the
     hope that the time will come when the dreadful calamity which
     has so long afflicted our country, and filled so many with
     despair, will be gradually removed, and by means consistent with
     justice, peace, and the general satisfaction; thus giving to our
     country the full enjoyment of the blessings of liberty, and to
     the world the full benefit of its great example. I have never
     considered the main difficulty of the great work as lying in the
     deficiency of emancipations, but in an inadequacy of asylums for
     such a growing mass of population, and in the great expense of
     removing it to its new home. The spirit of private maunmission,
     as the laws may permit and the exiles may consent, is increasing,
     and will increase, and there are sufficient indications that the
     public authorities in slaveholding States are looking forward to
     interpretations, in different forms, that must have a powerful
     effect.

     With respect to the new abode for the emigrants, all agree that
     the choice made by the Society is rendered peculiarly appropriate
     by considerations which need not be repeated, and if other
     situations should not be found as eligible receptacles for a
     portion of them, the prospect in Africa seems to be expanding in
     a highly encouraging degree.

     In contemplating the pecuniary resources needed for the removal
     of such a number to so great a distance, my thought and hopes
     have long been turned to the rich fund presented in the western
     lands of the nation, which will soon entirely cease to be under a
     pledge for another object. The great one in question is truly of
     a national character, and it is known that distinguished patriots
     not dwelling in slaveholding States have viewed the object in
     that light, and would be willing to let the national domain be a
     resource in effectuating it.

     Should it be remarked that the States, although all may be
     interested in relieving our country from the coloured population,
     are not equally so, it is but fair to recollect that the sections
     most to be benefited are those whose cessions created the fund to
     be disposed of.

     I am aware of the constitutional obstacle which has presented
     itself; but if the general will be reconciled to an application
     of the territorial fund to the removal of the coloured
     population, a grant to Congress of the necessary authority could
     be carried with little delay through the forms of the
     Constitution.

     Sincerely wishing increasing success to the labours of the
     Society, I pray you to be assured of my esteem, and to accept my
     friendly salutations.[21]

                    TO THOMAS R. DREW

                                            MONTPELLIER, Feby 23, 1833

     Dear Sir,--I received, in due time, your letter of the 15th
     ult. with copies of the two pamphlets; one on the "Restrictive
     System," the other on the "Slave Question."

     The former I have not yet been able to look into, and in reading
     the latter with the proper attention I have been much retarded by
     many interruptions, as well as by the feebleness incident to my
     great age, increased as it is by the effects of an acute fever,
     preceded and followed by a chronic complaint under which I am
     still labouring. This explanation of the delay in acknowledging
     your favor will be an apology, also, for the brevity and
     generality of the answer. For the freedom of it, none, I am sure,
     will be required. In the views of the subject taken in the
     pamphlet, I have found much valuable and interesting information,
     with ample proof of the numerous obstacles to a removal of
     slavery from our country, and everything that could be offered in
     mitigation of its continuance; but I am obliged to say, that in
     not a few of the data from which you reason, and in the
     conclusion to which you are led, I cannot concur.

     I am aware of the impracticability of an immediate or early
     execution of any plan that combines deportation with
     emancipation, and of the inadmissibility of emancipation without
     deportation. But I have yielded to the expediency of attempting a
     gradual remedy, by providing for the double operation.

     If emancipation was the sole object, the extinguishment of
     slavery would be easy, cheap, and complete. The purchase by the
     public of all female children, at their birth, leaving them in
     bondage till it would defray the charge of rearing them, would,
     within a limited period, be a radical resort.

     With the condition of deportation it has appeared to me, that the
     great difficulty does not lie either in the expense of
     emancipation, or in the expense or the means of deportation, but
     in the attainment--1, of the requisite asylums; 2, the consent of
     the individuals to be removed; 3, the labour for the vacuum to be
     created.

     With regard to the expense--1, much will be saved by voluntary
     emancipations, increasing under the influence of example, and the
     prospect of bettering the lot of the slaves; 2, much may be
     expected in gifts and legacies from the opulent, the
     philanthropic, and the conscientious; 3, more still from
     legislative grants by the States, of which encouraging examples
     and indications have already appeared; 4, nor is there any room
     for despair of aid from the indirect or direct proceeds of the
     public lands held in trust by Congress. With a sufficiency of
     pecuniary means, the facility of providing a naval transportation
     of the exiles is shewn by the present amount of our tonnage and
     the promptitude with which it can be enlarged; by the number of
     emigrants brought from Europe to N. America within the last
     year, and by the greater number of slaves which have been, within
     single years, brought from the coast of Africa across the
     Atlantic.

     In the attainment of adequate asylums, the difficulty, though it
     may be considerable, is far from being discouraging. Africa is
     justly the favorite choice of the patrons of colonization; and
     the prospect there is flattering--1, in the territory already
     acquired; 2, in the extent of coast yet to be explored, and which
     may be equally convenient; 3, the adjacent interior into which
     the littoral settlements can be expanded under the auspices of
     physical affinities between the new comers and the natives, and
     of the moral superiorities of the former; 4, the great inland
     regions now ascertained to be accessible by navigable waters, and
     opening new fields for colonizing enterprises.

     But Africa, though the primary, is not the sole asylum within
     contemplation; an auxiliary one presents itself in the islands
     adjoining this continent, where the coloured population is
     already dominant, and where the wheel of revolution may from time
     to time produce the like result.

     Nor ought another contingent receptable for emancipated slaves to
     be altogether overlooked. It exists within the territory under
     the control of the United States, and is not too distant to be
     out of reach, whilst sufficiently distant to avoid, for an
     indefinite period, the collisions to be apprehended from the
     vicinity of people distinguished from each other by physical as
     well as other characteristics.

     The consent of the individuals is another pre-requisite in the
     plan of removal. At present there is a known repugnance in those
     already in a state of freedom to leave their native homes, and
     among the slaves there is an almost universal preference of their
     present condition to freedom in a distant and unknown land. But
     in both classes, particularly that of the slaves, the prejudices
     arise from a distrust of the favorable accounts coming to them
     through white channels. By degrees truth will find its way to
     them from sources in which they will confide, and their aversion
     to removal may be overcome as fast as the means of effectuating
     it shall accrue.

     The difficulty of replacing the labour withdrawn by a removal of
     the slaves, seems to be urged as of itself an insuperable
     objection to the attempt. The answer to it is--1, that
     notwithstanding the emigrations of the whites, there will be an
     annual and by degrees an increasing surplus of the remaining
     mass; 2, that there will be an attraction of whites from without,
     increasing with the demand, and, as the population elsewhere will
     be yielding a surplus to be attracted; 3, that as the culture of
     tobacco declines with the contraction of the space within which
     it is profitable and still more from the successful competition
     in the West, and as the farming system takes the place of
     planting, a portion of labour can be spared without impairing the
     requisite stock; 4, that although the process must be slow, be
     attended with much inconvenience, and be not even certain in its
     result, is it not preferable to a torpid acquiescence in a
     perpetuation of slavery, or an extinguishment of it by
     convulsions more disastrous in their character and consequences
     than slavery itself?

     In my estimate of the experiment instituted by the Colonization
     Society, I may indulge too much my wishes and hopes, to be safe
     from errors. But a partial success will have its virtue, and an
     entire failure will leave behind a consciousness of the laudable
     intentions with which relief from the greatest of our calamities
     was attempted in the only mode presenting a chance of effecting
     it.

     I hope I shall be pardoned for remarking, that in accounting for
     the depressed condition of Virginia, you seem to allow too little
     to the existence of slavery, ascribe too much to the tariff laws,
     and not to have sufficiently taken into view the effect of the
     rapid settlement of the Western and Southwestern country.

     Previous to the Revolution, when, of these causes, slavery alone
     was in operation, the face of Virginia was, in every feature of
     improvement and prosperity, a contrast to the Colonies where
     slavery did not exist, or in a degree only, not worthy of notice.
     Again, during the period of the tariff laws prior to the latter
     state of them, the pressure was little, if at all, regarded as a
     source of the general suffering. And whatever may be the degree
     in which the extravagant augmentation of the Tariff may have
     contributed to the depression, the extent of this cannot be
     explained by the extent of the cause. The great and adequate
     cause of the evil is the cause last mentioned, if that be indeed
     an evil which improves the condition of our migrating citizens,
     and adds more to the growth and prosperity of the whole than it
     subtracts from a part of the community.

     Nothing is more certain than that the actual and prospective
     depression of Virginia is to be referred to the fall in the value
     of her landed property, and in that of the staple products of
     the land. And it is not less certain that the fall in both cases
     is the inevitable effect of the redundancy in the market of land
     and of its products. The vast amount of fertile land offered at
     125 cents per acre in the West and S. West could not fail to have
     the effect already experienced, of reducing the land here to half
     its value; and when the labour that will here produce one
     hogshead of tobacco and ten barrels of flour will there produce
     two hhd and twenty barrels, now so cheaply transportable to the
     destined outlets, a like effect on these articles must
     necessarily ensue. Already more tobacco is sent to New Orleans
     than is exported from Virginia to foreign markets; whilst the
     article of flour, exceeding for the most part the demand for it,
     is in a course of rapid increase from new sources as boundless as
     they are productive. The great staples of Virginia have but a
     limited market, which is easily glutted. They have in fact sunk
     more in price, and have a more threatening prospect, than the
     more southern staples of cotton and rice. The case is believed to
     be the same with her landed property. That it is so with her
     slaves is proved by the purchases made here for the market there.

     The reflections suggested by this aspect of things will be more
     appropriate in your hands than in mine. They are also beyond the
     tether of my subject, which I fear I have already overstrained. I
     hasten, therefore, to conclude, with a tender of the high respect
     and cordial regards which I pray you to accept.[22]

                    TO HENRY CLAY

                                                           June, 1833. On the other hand, what madness in the
     South to look for greater safety in disunion. It would be worse
     than jumping out of the frying-pan into the fire; it would be
     jumping into the fire for fear of the frying-pan. The danger
     from the alarm is, that the pride and resentment exerted by them
     may be an overmatch for the dictates of prudence, and favor the
     project of a Southern Convention, insidiously revived, as
     promising, by its councils, the best securities against
     grievances of every sort from the North.[23]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 138.

[2] Ibid., 170.

[3] Ibid., 239.

[4] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 168.

[5] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, I, 542-543.

[6] Ibid., III, 121.

[7] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 122-124.

[8] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 133-138.

[9] Ibid., III, 170.

[10] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 190.

[11] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 193-194.

[12] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 239, 240.

[13] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 310-315.

[14] These peculiarities, it would seem, are not of equal force in the South American States,
owing, in part, perhaps, to a former degradation, produced by colonial vassalage; but principally
to the lesser contrast of colours. The difference is not striking between that of many of the
Spanish and Portuguese Creoles and that of many of the mixed breed.--J. M.

[15] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 495-498.

[16] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 541-542.

[17] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, III, 2-3.

[18] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, IV, 60.

[19] Ibid., IV, 188.

[20] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, IV, 192.

[21] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, IV, 213-214.

[22] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, IV, 274-279.

[23] Letters and other Writings of James Madison, IV, 301.

ADVICE GIVEN NEGROES A CENTURY AGO

The following addresses to the free people of color, taken from the
Minutes of the American Convention of Abolition Societies active in
this country during the first fifty years of the republic of the
United States, show the method employed by these early friends of the
Negroes to effect their social uplift while this organization was
working for the abolition of the slave trade and the destruction of
slavery. The advice to the Negroes as to how they should conduct
themselves is very interesting. After 1820 the American Convention of
Abolition Societies paid less attention to such advice to the people
of color and concerned itself primarily with appeals to others in
their behalf. The free Negro made so much moral progress during the
period that they ceased to be a cause of anxiety. The oftner we
     review that advice, the more we are impressed with its
     importance, and the more anxious we are to urge your strict and
     faithful observance of it. We shall only add thereto, at present,
     one other request, and that is, that you would avoid gaming in
     all its varied forms--the ruinous and miserable consequences of
     this most pernicious evil, are so notorious, and so generally
     acknowledged, that we cannot too forcibly endeavour to guard you
     against it. It subjects you to the control of the most degrading
     passions, and too generally leads to the loss of fortune,
     reputation, and of every good principle.

     We can with peculiar satisfaction inform you, that schools and
     places of worship have been established, and that they are well
     attended by people of your color, in New-York, New-Jersey,
     Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and other places; and we are
     happy to find, that many of you have evinced, by your prudent and
     moral conduct, that you are not unworthy of the freedom you
     enjoy.

     You can have no doubt but that our views are disinterested, and
     we therefore think ourselves entitled to your attention, whilst
     we speak of matters in which you are greatly concerned.

     As you are free men, we wish you to place a proper estimate on
     your privileges, and to act in a manner becoming your character;
     that, by your worthy conduct, you may destroy the prejudices
     which some persons entertain against you, and relieve your
     friends from the censures which they incur in consequence of your
     errors; we beseech you, reflect seriously and endeavor to remove
     these reproaches; and it is our earnest and affectionate advice,
     that you remember your great and good Creator, who has placed you
     in this life, in order that you may, by acting well your part
     here, be qualified for everlasting happiness hereafter--Can you
     expect that happiness, if instead of attending places of divine
     worship, there to pray for his holy aid, you spend the Sabbath,
     as well as much of the other parts of your time, in rolicking,
     drinking, or other evil practices, which destroy your own
     comfort, give cause of offense to your neighbours, and above all
     greatly displease that all-seeing God, before whom you must
     appear to give an account for all your conduct? Let us prevail
     upon you to refrain from the use of spirituous liquors, which
     have occasioned misery to thousands--from gaming, a vice which
     will bring poverty upon your families, and from frolicking and
     amusements, which lead to idleness and expence; these habits of
     dissipation, can in no wise add to your comfort. Be industrious,
     diligent in your business, frugal in your expences, and endeavour
     to lay up part of your earnings against a time of need. Some of
     you can read, such know the advantages of it; you who cannot,
     strive to acquire that knowledge.--Surely this knowledge is an
     object of great importance, were it only for the opportunity it
     affords of becoming acquainted with that best of books, the
     Bible. The holy Scriptures of the old and new testament, contain
     invaluable treasures of instruction, and of comfort. It would
     give us much satisfaction, could we oftener see them in the hands
     of those who are able to read them, and that an increasing
     anxiety to become possessed of their contents, and to profit by
     their precepts, might be more and more observable among you.

     Very much depends upon the right education of your children,
     endeavour to have them brought up to labour, and taught to read
     and write; early place them apprentice with suitable masters, and
     whether they be tradesmen or farmers, be always particularly
     careful to prefer such, as by their example, will encourage them
     in industry and sobriety.

     In all your dealings be just and honest, give no cause of offence
     to any, and if any dispute, either among yourselves, or with
     others, should unhappily arise, in which you find difficulty,
     apply to such persons in your neighborhoods as you know to be
     your friends, and able to give you advice and assistance. Be
     assured you will find this practice contributes much more to your
     peace and interest, than the settling of your differences at law.

     Be careful to observe your marriage covenants, remembering that
     those who violate them, will fall under the displeasure of the
     Almighty. We wish also to impress your minds, the necessity of
     having your marriage ceremonies legally performed, and that the
     births and deaths in your respective families, be carefully
     registered.

     In all your communications with those of your brethren who remain
     in slavery, we desire you unceasingly to impress them with the
     necessity of contentment with their situations, submission to
     their masters, and fidelity to their interests--that they be not
     merely eye-servants, but carefully perform the labours assigned
     them, and manage everything intrusted to their care, with as much
     faithfulness as if it were their own. By this conduct they will
     excite in their masters, a disposition to treat them with
     humanity and gentleness, and to increase the number of their
     privileges and comforts; and contribute to the peace of their own
     minds. The objects we have so long, and so
     assiduously pursued, are highly interesting to society at large,
     and infinitely important to you in particular.... For their
     attainment, we therefore claim your zealous and uniform
     co-operation. This demand we make with much confidence, as we are
     persuaded many of you have already verified, in your own
     experience, the propriety of former recommendations. You have
     found that industry and economy have procured for you,
     independence; that temperance has greatly promoted, if not
     absolutely secured to you, health; and that the cultivation of
     the faculties of the mind, has enlarged the capacity for
     discharging your various duties, and for enjoying the numerous
     benefits you have received. On the contrary, you have seen that
     idleness, gambling, and dissipation, have uniformly produced
     poverty and disgrace; that intemperance has generally been the
     parent of loathsome disease, and the cause of premature death;
     and that the consequences of ignorance are too frequently,
     contention and loss. Trusting then, that we can with confidence
     appeal to your own experience, for a test of the truth of
     precepts so often inculcated, we beseech you with anxious and
     tender solicitude to bear them constantly in remembrance, and,
     with a steady zeal, put them in practice. We are well aware that
     human nature is frail, and prone to depart from the strait path
     of rectitude. On this weakness let us not however rely for a
     justification of our deviations, but rather let it operate as an
     inducement to double our diligence and increase our caution. Then
     while we are conscious of having honestly and earnestly
     endeavored to discharge the duties we owe to our Maker and to
     each other, we can look with more confidence to our great Creator
     for pardon of our past transgressions and strength to preserve us
     from a repetition of them.

     In our observations thus far we have chiefly endeavoured to
     convince you, that on your own conduct depends your prosperity
     and happiness, but be assured the consequences do not rest there.
     The greater portion of your brethren still remains in bondage.
     One great obstacle to their release, it is in your power and it
     is eminently your duty to remove; the enemies of your liberty
     have loudly and constantly asserted that you are not qualified to
     enjoy it, that your proneness to dissipation, your inattention to
     your particular concerns, and your disregard of the interests of
     each other, will ever produce your own wretchedness and lasting
     mischief to those among whom you dwell: in what degree the
     imputations may be just we leave to your own candour to decide;
     but we cannot leave the subject without conjuring you to remove,
     by the utmost circumspection of conduct, the causes that have
     been and continue to be urged against you; and thereby contribute
     your part towards the liberation of such of your fellow men as
     yet remain in the shackles of slavery.

     The education of your offspring is a subject of lasting
     importance, and has obtained a large portion of our attention and
     care. In this too we call upon you for your aid; many of you have
     been favoured to acquire a comfortable portion of property, and
     are consequently enabled to contribute in some measure to the
     means of educating your offspring. While you thus benefit your
     own, you will also confer a favor on the children of those who
     are indigent; in as much as there will remain a large proportion
     of other funds to be applied to their improvement.

     Having thus fully communicated our sentiments on subjects the
     most important to your present and eternal welfare, we beg you to
     give them your close attention, and sincerely wish you that
     happiness which is consistent with the will of an all-wise and
     protecting Providence.[4]

        TO THE FREE PEOPLE OF COLOUR AND DESCENDANTS OF THE AFRICAN
                       RACE, IN THE UNITED STATES

     The American Convention composed of Delegates from several
     Abolition and Manumission Societies in the United States, being
     assembled in Philadelphia, for the purpose of promoting the great
     cause of emancipation, and for the melioration of the condition
     and the general improvement of the descendants of the African
     race; have deemed it their duty to address you, on some subjects
     intimately connected with your future welfare and prosperity.
     They perform this duty the more willingly, from a conviction that
     such counsel and advice as they may communicate, will be received
     and listened to with attention, from the circumstance of its
     proceeding from those who have long had your best interests at
     heart.

     Vain will be the desire on the part of the friends of abolition,
     to behold their labours crowned with success, unless those
     colourd people who have obtained their freedom, should evince by
     their morality and orderly deportment, that they are deserving
     the rank and station which they have obtained in society:
     unavailing will be the most strenuous exertions of humane
     philanthropists in your behalf, if you should not be found to
     second their endeavours, by a course of conduct corresponding
     with the expectations and the wishes of your friends.

     We intreat you therefore by the ties which bind us together as
     children of one common Creator;--by the obligation imposed upon
     us, as joint objects of redeeming love; as heirs alike with us,
     of the rewards and benedictions which rest upon all who perform
     the religious and social obligations of life with fidelity;--by
     the sacred duties which you owe to yourselves, and to the Author
     of your existence; seriously to consider the great responsibility
     which rests upon you as FREEMEN, so to order and regulate your
     conduct and deportment in the world and amongst men, that your
     example may exhibit a standing refutation of the charge, that you
     are unworthy of freedom. And let us impress it upon YOU, whose
     opportunities of information have been greater than the
     generality of your colour, to use the influence which your
     superior knowledge may have given you among your brethren, to
     dissuade them from the commission and practice of those vices
     which degrade and disgrace them in the eyes of mankind;
     particularly let it be your constant endeavour to repress among
     them dram drinking, frequenting of tippling shops and places of
     diversion, idleness and dissipation of every description, and to
     promote and encourage as much as possible, habits of sobriety,
     industry and economy, punctual attendance on places of religious
     worship, particularly on the day appointed for rest from labour,
     and for the exercises of devotion; avoiding noisy and disorderly
     conduct on those days, as well as at other times; and to demean
     themselves peaceably and respectfully, towards all those with
     whom they have intercourse. This will do more, towards advancing
     your cause in the earth, than the labours of your friends can
     effect in your behalf.

     Keep out of all contentions and law-suits with each other; by
     which your valuable time, which should be spent in useful
     occupations, is grievously misapplied, your money wasted, and
     your character in the world, is unhappily injured and
     degraded:--it is a mortifying sight to your friends, to see the
     coloured people bringing each other before the civil officers
     and in courts of justice for trifling causes of contention, which
     by exercising an amiable and forbearing disposition might be
     easily settled, without going to law, and spending their time and
     money, in useless disputations.

     Be faithful to the obligations of the marriage covenant. Be
     diligent in your respective callings, so that you may not
     disappoint the expectations of those who have confided in you,
     and in the capacity of domestics or hired servants, shew
     yourselves faith-ful; remembering that no situation in life is
     disgraceful in itself, but that upon your own conduct, will
     depend the estimation in which you will be held by others; and if
     you perform your duty with fidelity, you will be respected and
     esteemed. Be just in all your dealings, and strictly punctual in
     the performance of all your promises; so shall you gain the
     approbation and the confidence of your white neighbours, and
     justify the conduct of those who have laboured for your
     emancipation.

     Let an especial attention be had to keep a regular record of your
     marriages, and of the births of your children, by which their
     ages may at any time be legally established;--this will be of
     essential service to you in placing them out as apprentices and
     prevent impositions being practised upon you. Finally--be sober;
     be watchful over every part of your conduct, keeping constantly
     in view, that the freedom of many thousands of your colour, who
     still remain in slavery, will be hastened and promoted by your
     leading a life of virtue and sobriety.[5]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] American Convention Abolition Societies. Minutes, 1796, pp. 12, 14.

[2] American Convention of Abolition Societies, Minutes of, 1797, pp. 16 and 17.

[3] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1804, pp. 30-33.

[5] Minutes of the American Convention Abolition Societies, 1818. Pages 43 and 47.

SOME UNDISTINGUISHED NEGROES

JUAN BAUTISTA CESAR

A few years ago a bookseller handed me a book of MSS. papers for classification. I noted that
they belonged to some military court or the archives of a Spanish Audiencia having jurisdiction
in New Spain. Most of them had something to do with Texas when it was part of Mexico and belonged
to the kingdom of Spain. These papers were of the highest historical value in so far as Texas
was concerned. My curiosity was aroused by the original transcript of a court martial called
upon to judge the transgressions of the Anglo-Americans, as they were called in those days.
From these papers Philip Nolan, around whom a halo of false patriotism still lingers, was nothing
more or less in the judgment of the court martial than a horse thief. It was the practice of
Nolan, Bean, Fero and others to make periodical incursions across the State and stampede home,
domestic, and wild horses for their mutual benefit. On this occasion the Spaniards were prepared
for the malefactors and when surrounded in their provisional fort they refused at first to
surrender, but the killing of Nolan put an end to all resistance and Elias Bean, David Fero
and the Negro Cesar were put in St. Charles jail to await the slow machinery of the Spanish
courts. Bean and Fero attempted to escape from the jail. One of these patriots became intimate
with the jailer's wife and his intercepted notes showed him a depraved specimen of humanity.
Among the papers examined was a deposition of Nolan's slave known in the histories of Texas
by the name of Cesar, under the Spanish correct form he takes the proper name of Juan Bautista
Cesar, a native of Grenada, when the island belonged to France. He was a professed Christian
belonging to the Roman Catholic faith. So that during the dawn of the incipient difficulties
surrounding Texas, therefore, when becoming part of the United States, there figured a Negro
the tool of his master, in common with Nolan and others, reputed horse thieves, the patriots
whose depredations were as annoying to the Mexicans in 1804 as Villa's bandit incursions (during
1914-20) are reprehensible to Americans.

The manuscript follows:

     Juan Bautista Cesar.

     En el referido Presidio de San Carlos en el mismo dia, mes y año
     arriba citado el nominado Sr. Capitán hizo comparacer ante si al
     Interprete José Jesús de los Santos y al Negro Juan Bautista,
     conocido con el nombre de Cesar á quienes juramento en debida
     forma ante mí el Escribano y bajo lo cual prometió el primero
     traducir fielmente lo que declara et expresáda Juan Bautista y
     este decir verdad en lo que supiere y fuere preguntado y siendo
     por su Nombre, y Patria y Religión. Dijo que se llama Juan
     Bautista Cesar, que es natural de las islas Francesas que llaman
     la Granada y que es Católico Apostolico Romano.

     Preguntado si sabe porqué está preso: dijo. Que sabe se haya
     preso por haber acompañado á su amo Dn. Felipe Nolan en la
     entrada que hizo á la Provincia de Texas.

     Preguntado si no ha habido algun noevo motivo para que la prision
     se le agrave; Dijo que no sabe si habia habido algun motivo para
     tenerlo en el calabozo en donde ahora existe privandolo del
     alivio que ántes disfrutaba de tener todo el Presidio por Cárcel.

     Preguntado que es lo que sabe de la fuga que intentaron hacer los
     Anglo-Americanos compañeros de Nolan. Dijo; Que la fuga si la
     intentaron los, Anglo Americanos se la han ocultado al declarante
     pues jámas le han comunicado cosa alguna relativa á ella y antes
     bien ha observado que cuando hablan entre sí los expresados
     Anglo-Americanos y el declarante se presenta, luega callan y solo
     continuan hablando cosas diferentes: que el diá que pusieron al
     que declara en el calabozo en union de Elias Bean y David Fero
     oyo el declarante que David pregunto a Elias que si habia escrito
     alguna carta á Chihuahua y respondiendole Elias que si, le
     contestó David ya verás como por eso nos ponen en el calabozo y
     te apostara una oreja que es asi; que nada mas has oido ni visto
     nunca sobre la fuga de que se trata: Que el declarante desde que
     se murió su amo Nolan siempre ha sido mirado con desprecio por
     los Anglo-Americanos compañeros de aquel y por lo mismo le ha
     quadrado mas alojarse siempre con los Españoles como se verificó
     cuando lo pusieron en el calabozo que dormia con tres de los
     Españoles.

     Preguntado si sabe o ha oíds que lesl Anglo-Americanos tuviesen
     prevenidas Armas y municiones de boca y guerra para meditar su
     fuga intentarla: Dijo que nada sabe sobre lo que contiene la
     Pregunta, no ha oido cosa alguna sobre el particular.

     Preguntado si tiene algo mas que declarar sobre el particular:
     Dijo que no tiene mas que declarar sobre el particular y que lo
     dicho es la verdad a cargo del juramento que lleva hecho en que
     se afirmó y ratificó despues de enterado por el Interprete de lo
     que contiene esta su declarencion y por no saber escribir
     pusieron ambos la señar de cruz firmando dicho señor y el
     presente Escribano.

     (Firmado) Texada X X Ante mi Jose Cano

     Provincia de la Nueve Vizcaya Año de 1804. Diligencias
     practicadas de órden del Sr. Comandants General en la Fuga que
     intentaron hacer los Anglo-Americanos. Comisionado el Capiten Dn
     Antonio Garcia de Texada.

                                             ARTHUR A. SCHOMBURG.

A BENEVOLENT SLAVEHOLDER OF COLOR

John Barry Meachum, a free man of color, became prominent as pastor of the African Baptist
Church at St. Louis. Meachum was born a slave, but obtained his liberty by his own industry.
By his hard earnings he purchased his father, a slave, and Baptist preacher in Virginia. He
was then a resident of Kentucky, where he married a slave, and where he professed religion.

Soon thereafter his wife's master removed to Missouri, and Meachum followed her, arriving at
St. Louis, with three dollars, in 1815. Being a carpenter and a cooper, he soon obtained employment,
purchased his wife and children, commenced preaching, and was ordained in 1825. During subsequent
years he purchased, including adults and children, about twenty slaves, but he never sold them
again. His method was to place them in service, encourage them to form habits of industry and
economy, and when they had paid for themselves, he set them free. In 1835 he built a steamboat,
which he provided with a library, and from which he excluded the use and sale of intoxicating
drinks. He was then worth about $25,000.

He was not less enterprising in religious matters. The church of which he was pastor, consisted
of about 220 members of whom 200 were slaves. A large Sabbath school, a temperance society,
a deep-toned missionary spirit, good order and correct habits among the slave population in
the city, strict and regular discipline in the church, were among the fruits of his arduous,
persevering labor.[1]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The Liberator, December, 10, 1836.

BOOK REVIEWS

     The Republic of Liberia. By R. C. F. MAUGHAN, F.R.G.S. and
     F.Z.S., etc., H. B. M., Consul-General at Monrovia. New York,
     Charles Scribner's Sons, 1919. Pp. 299. Price $6.50. The book contains several maps and thirty-seven
illustrations. The more interesting topics as to history and
administration appear first and those of the statistically scientific
and commercial order come nearer to the end.

The book was written in 1918 before the United States took sufficient interest in the republic
to bring about certain epoch-making changes. The United States has since offered the country
a loan of five million dollars and with the approval of Great Britain and France and with the
request of the Liberian Government has consented to become the sole adviser in Liberian affairs.
Since then Hon. C. D. B. King, who became President of Liberia in January 1920, has participated
in the world's peace conference and visited Europe and America, where the heads of nations
have assured him of deeper interest in Liberia than they have heretofore manifested.

This book was written from a point of view decidedly different from that of most writers on
Liberia, whose tone is that of "gentle melancholy," descanting "upon the country and the people
to whom it belongs as with a pen dipped in sighs." Instead of criticising he has in most cases
merely described. Where criticisms have crept in they have been given in a spirit of sympathetic
friendship. He finds in the country, therefore, much to admire and praise and an economic situation
"which will assuredly bid fair, when normal conditions shall have returned to us once more,
to attain to a measure of gratifying expansion and progress." He believes that Liberia will
then be in a position "of having her feet placed firmly upon the ladder which should bring
her in time to great heights. The author concedes that the rung which Liberia has already reached
is not a high one perhaps, "but the way before her seems plain and unmistakable." He believes
that the present guidance from the outside guarantees these most sanguine expectations in as
much as the foreigners controlling the financial policy of the little republic are hard-working
men who have already set the house somewhat in order. This, supplemented by a liberal policy
of internal improvements, will result in the prosperity of the whole land.

In discussing this phase of the administration of Liberian affairs, the author does not bring
out any particular resentment on the part of the natives as to foreign interference. The native
officials welcome helpful advice and when not given they sometimes seek it. The author himself
came into contact with a number of functionaries who frankly asked him to tell them what he
thought of their methods. Except so far as such foreign guidance may bring financial relief,
however, it is doubtful that these natives so easily yield to this sort of domination; for
many Liberians are to-day endeavoring to get rid of the American loan which they fear may lead
to conquest like that in Haiti. On the whole, however, this work comes nearer to the true portraiture
of the Liberian situation than most volumes in this field.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The United States in Our Own Times, 1865-1920. By PAUL HAWORTH,
     Ph.D. New York, Charles Scribner's Sons, 1920. Pp. vii, 563.

The publication of this volume is justified by the author on the ground that in as much as
an important object of history study is to enable one to understand the present, greater emphasis
than hitherto must be laid on the period since the Civil War. Hoping then to supply the need
of students who desire to know our own country in our own times the author has directed his
attention to the problems of the new day, to social and industrial questions which have attained
importance since the Civil War, and which, as the author views it, served as a break between
these two distinct periods in our history.

Briefly stated, the author covers a little better than usually the field in which many others
have recently written. There appears the aftermath of the Rebellion, then the drama of Reconstruction
followed by national development making possible a new era, the changing order, the revival
of the Democratic Party, hard times, free silver, troubles with Spain, imperialism, Roosevelt
and the Panama Canal, the New West, Progressivism, the "New Freedom," "Watchful Waiting," the
World War, and the Peace Conference. The book is well illustrated with useful maps showing
the West in 1876, the Cuba and Porto Rican campaigns, the Philippines, Mexico, West Indies,
and Central America, the percentage of foreign-born whites in the total population in 1910,
the percentage of Negroes in the total population in 1910, the Western Front in 1918, and the
United States in 1920.

Discussing thus a period during which the most important problems before the American people
has been how to segregate the Negroes within the law, the author touched here and there the
so-called Negro question. While Dr. Haworth has not shown all of the breadth of mind expected
in an historian he has been much more liberal than the pseudo-historians who endeavor merely
to justify the proscription of the freedmen on the basis of so-called racial inferiority. Dr.
Haworth does occasionally mention a Negro as having said or done something worthy of notice.
In the average Reconstruction history there is no personal mention of the Negro except for
the purpose to condemn him and to advise him how to make himself acceptable to his so-called
superiors.

In his last chapter which he calls "A Golden Age in History" he says some things which we do
not find in the works of the would-be historians of this period. On page 509 he writes: "A
historian ought not to suppress uncomfortable facts, and it is undeniable that the treatment
of the Negroes forms a blot on America's fair name. In parts of the South they are kept in
a state of practical serfdom; in all cities they are herded into unsanitary districts; they
are denied equal opportunities for advancement; and not infrequently they are maltreated and
murdered by brutal mobs. It is true that individual Negroes, by fiendish assaults on white
women, now and then rouse men to frenzy, but statistics show that only about a fifth of the
lynchings of Negroes are because of the 'usual crime.' Burning at the stake is never justifiable
under any circumstance, and it is undeniable that in race riots scenes of horror have been
enacted that are a disgrace to American civilization. Such scenes are sadly out of place in
a nation that proclaims itself the special champion of liberty and justice and which enlists
in a crusade 'to make the world safe for democracy.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

     The American Colonization Society, 1817-1840. By EARLY LEE FOX,
     Ph.D., Professor of History in Randolph-Macon College. Baltimore.
     The John Hopkins Press, 1919. Pp. viii, 231.
This is another study made under the direction of the Johns Hopkins
University faculty of Historical and Political Science and like many
others of this order lies in the field of southern history and is
written from the ex parte point of view. It does not cover the whole
history of the American Colonization Society but restricts itself to
that period when it was largely a southern enterprise primarily
interested in getting rid of the Negro. Throughout the story there is
too much effort to evade eloquent facts, too much effort to excuse the
sins of the South by showing that the North itself was once
slaveholding and slavetrading. On the whole, however, the author has
in the use of such valuable material as the manuscripts and especially
the letters of the American Colonization Society brought to light
significant facts which the historian will be glad to use more
advantageously.

After a brief introduction the book treats of the free Negro and the slave. Then comes the
chapter on the organization, purpose, and early record of the Society. Attention is next directed
to the conflict between the colonizationists and the abolitionists. Colonization is afterward
discussed in connection with emancipation and finally with the African slave trade. Throughout
the whole treatise there is a defense of the "lofty" motives of the men who labored so hard
for the expatriation of the Negroes. As the author sees it, although the Society did not send
many Negroes to Africa, it was after all a success; for it had a bearing on the emancipation
of slaves, and on the suppression of the African slave trade. Abolitionists, attacking this
undertaking based upon national sentiment, were endangering the union by their propaganda founded
upon sectional sentiment. Colonization, therefore, was just because it was "born out of a desire
to unite the North and the South in the settlement of the Negro problem." The purpose of the
treatise then is to (page 127) "set forth the true aims of orthodox Colonizationists, or from
another point to demonstrate that their aims were as sincerely expressed as sound policy would
admit, and that, where motives were concealed, they were concealed in order to secure the freedom
of the slaves."

Written from this point of view the dissertation becomes too much of a polemic to be accepted
as a scientific treatise. Too much space is devoted to the task of unifying the widely different
views of the colonizationists, too much effort is made to contrast the methods of the colonizationists
with those of the abolitionists. The author does not seem to realize or at least fails to admit
that the abolitionists were radical reformers seeking to eradicate the cause of social disease
whereas the colonizationists were merely treating the symptoms of the malady in undertaking
the impossible task of transplanting a whole race.

The general argument of the author in favor of the beneficence of
colonization is not convincing. There is no authority for the
contention that colonization promoted emancipation when the records
show that the majority of slaveholders who supported it had in mind
the expatriation of the free Negroes who among the bondmen were a
living testimony against slavery. It is an insult to
the intelligence of men who have seriously considered history to say
that colonization was so built upon national sentiment as to have a
direct bearing on the preservation of the Union when the
colonizationists differed widely among themselves in the very
beginning and finally divided just as the abolitionists, who at one
time had also a national standing, in that most anti-slavery societies
were once found in the South. Until Negro history, therefore, has been
removed from the hands of those using it to whitewash their ancestors
the world must still lack knowledge as to how the progress of mankind
has been influenced by the Negro. New York, E. P.
     Dutton and Company, 1920. Pp. xii, 188.

The purpose of this book may best be expressed in the words of the author himself, when he
says, in the preface: "The following work is a compilation from the colored press of America
for the four months [July 1st to November 1st, 1919] immediately succeeding the Washington
riot. It is designed to show the Negro's reaction to that and like events following, and to
the World War and the discussion of the Treaty. It may, in the Editor's estimation, be regarded
as a primary document in promoting a knowledge of the Negro, his point of view, his way of
thinking upon race relations, his grievances, his aspirations, his demands." A book of such
purport, especially when coming from the pen of a white man, must attract attention, and if
the newspapers and periodicals from which the various extracts are chosen may be called truly
representative, as in this case they are, the compiler has performed a distinct service in
the field of American History.

Professor Kerlin has culled his clippings from eighty current Negro periodicals, published
from Massachusetts to Georgia, and ranging from the startlingly radical to the most hide-bound
conservative type. He has used only articles written by Negroes in Negro publications, has
sorted them and grouped them under ten heads, entitled respectively: The Colored Press, The
New Era, The Negro's Reaction to the World War, The Negro's Grievances and Demands, Riots,
Lynchings, The South and the Negro, The Negro and Labor Unionism and Bolshevism, Negro Progress,
and The Lyric Cry,--a remarkable assortment of first-hand information concerning Negro thought
with regard to each topic.

Professor Kerlin makes no attempt to interpret the material of his book; he merely presents
it. It is for him who reads also to read between the lines. It is doubtless impossible to choose
any one expression that will accurately represent Negro thought as caught in these pages, yet
four lines of poetry included in the book will serve as well as any:

  "We would be manly--proving well our worth,
  Then would not cringe to any god on earth.

  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .

  "We would be peaceful, Father,--but when we must,
  Help us to thunder hard the blow that's just!"

This is the Voice of the Negro which Professor Kerlin intimates cannot go unheeded.

The book might have been made more useful by the addition of an alphabetical and topical index
of the periodicals used.

                                             D. A. LANE.

NOTES

The following account of the centenary celebration of St. Philip's Episcopal Church from the
New York World of November 14, 1920, will be interesting to all persons interested in Negro
history:

"The Right Rev. Charles Sumner Burch, D.D., Bishop of New York, and the Right Rev. Henry Beard
Delany, D.D., Suffragan Bishop of North Carolina, will participate in the centennial celebration
at St. Philip's Church, No. 212 West 134th Street, the Rev. H. C. Bishop, rector, which will
begin to-day.

"One hundred years ago Nov. 14 St. Philip's Church was incorporated under the laws of the State
of New York. The event is significant, for it antedated the Civil War by forty-one years and
the Emancipation Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln by forty-five years. It is not only, nor primarily,
an ecclesiastical event, but a political and social one as well, inasmuch as this act of Legislature
recognized and confirmed the citizenship of the petitioners, showing that these colored Episcopalians
were an integral part of the body politic.

"It was in 1809, under the leadership of Mr. McCoombs, a lay reader, that a mission for colored
people was opened in a school room on the corner of Frankfort and William Streets, where they
remained until 1812, and after the death of Mr. McCoombs removed to a room in Cliff Street
with Peter Williams, Jr., a colored man, as lay reader, where they remained five years, moving
from there to a school room on Rose Street.

"In 1819 three lots were obtained on the west side of Collect, now Centre Street, and upon
this site a wooden building was erected at a cost of $5,000. It was consecrated by Bishop John
Henry Hobart, July 19, 1819, and was named St. Philip's Church. After its incorporation in
1820 Mr. Williams, who had been ordained to the Deaconate in October, was appointed minister
in charge, Dec. 24, 1821, the building was destroyed by fire, but was rebuilt the following
year of brick at a cost of $8,000.

"Mr. Williams was advanced to the priesthood in 1827, and became the first rector of the church.
He died in 1840. In 1853 the parish was received into union with the Convention of the Diocese
of New York. At that time the church was at No. 305 Mulberry Street, and the Rev. William Morris
LL.D., rector of Trinity School, was the officiating minister.

"The parish was without a rector from 1840 to 1872, when the Rev. William J. Alston, trained
at Kenyon College, Gambier, O., was called to the rectorship. He continued in office until
1874, and there was a vacancy until 1875, when the Rev. Joseph J. Atwell, a native of Barbados,
British West Indies, was elected rector. His death in 1882 again left the office vacant until
1886, when the present incumbent, the Rev. Hutchens C. Bishop, was elected.

"During Mr. Atwell's incumbency the Parish House for Aged Women was founded. The long years
of vacancy retarded the growth of the parish so that in 1885 there were but 284 communicants
after a group existence of seventy-six years.

"In 1886 the congregation made another journey, locating at No. 161 West 125th Street, where
it remained until 1910, when, following the migration northward, lots running from 133d to
134th Street were obtained and a commodious church and parish house were erected. The growth
of the parish since that time has been phenomenal. There are now over 2,500 communicants and
not room enough in the parish house to accommodate the various activities.

"At the present time St. Philip's may be said to be the only church in the neighborhood in
any way equipped to serve the colored people of the community. Churchmen point out that if
there is one place in Manhattan where there should be buildings adapted for indoor recreation
and entertainment for the young colored people, it is that particular part of the city. They
claim there should be day nurseries, gymnasiums, beneficial societies and forums for the discussion
of industrial problems, where employer and employee might meet and each present his side.

"The centennial celebration will extend over a week. Bishop Burch will preach at the special
thanksgiving service to-day at 11 o'clock, while Bishop Delany and one of the two negro Bishops
in the Episcopal Church will make an address at the evening service.

"There will be an historical pageant to-morrow night. A public meeting with the pastors of
St. Mark's, Olivet, Mother, A. M. E. Zion, St. Cyprian, George Foster Peabody and James Weldon
Johnson as the speakers will take place Tuesday night. Following this meeting there will be
a reception and parish supper in the basement of the church. Wednesday night is set apart for
a praise service, when the Rev. Dr. Manning, Dr. Stires, Dr. Grant and Dr. Bragg will deliver
addresses.

"The newly organized Provincial Conference of Church Workers Among Colored People will hold
its sessions Thursday and Friday, when representative ministers and lay workers will participate.
The conference will be addressed Friday night by Dr. Harry T. Ward of Union Theological Seminary
and Dr. Robert Russa Moton, Principal of Tuskegee Institute."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL MEETING, WASHINGTON, D. C., NOVEMBER 18, AND 19, 1920.

The annual meeting of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History was called to
order by Dr. C. G. Woodson, the Director of Research and Editor of the Journal of Negro History.
After a few preliminary remarks, President John W. Davis of the West Virginia Collegiate Institute
was asked to open the meeting by the invocation of divine blessing. Professor William Hansberry
of Straight College was introduced to deliver a lecture on the Ancient and Mediaeval Culture
of the People of Yorubuland. This was a most informing disquisition on the achievements of
these people prior to the time when they came into contact with the so-called more advanced
Asiatic and European races. On the whole, Professor Hansberry made a strong argument in behalf
of the contention that the culture of these people was indigenous and that brought into comparison
with that of the ancient Greek and Roman it does not materially suffer.

Mr. A. O. Stafford, the principal of the Lincoln School of Washington, D. C., then read a very
illuminating and informing paper on African folk lore. He discussed briefly the various authorities
producing works in this field and indicated sources of information which have not yet been
explored. He then made a general survey of African folk lore, showing how the Negro mind from
the very earliest periods of African history exhibited independent thought and philosophical
tendency.

At the conclusion of these addresses there followed a general discussion in which participated
Principal D. S. S. Goodloe of the Maryland State Normal and Industrial School, Mr. John W.
Cromwell, President of the American Negro Academy, Mr. Monroe N. Work, Director of Research
and Records, Tuskegee Institute, and President John W. Davis of the West Virginia Collegiate
Institute.

At two o'clock the Association held a business session. The general routine of business was
followed. There being no unfinished business or reports of special committees, the Association
heard the reports of the officers of last year. The Director read his report and the report
of the Secretary-Treasurer was presented by his assistant, Miss A. H. Smith. They follow:

THE REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR

     During the year 1919-1920 the Association has made steady
     progress in spite of the difficulties resulting from the
     increasing cost of labor and supplies. There has been some
     difficulty in raising additional funds adequate to the needs of
     the Association and for this reason the organization is now
     suffering from a deficit of about $2500. Persons of means,
     however, have from time to time volunteered so as to give
     sufficient relief to keep the work going. Efforts are now being
     made to remove this deficit in the near future through the
     increase in the contributions annually received and gifts from
     other friends who will be asked to make sacrifices for the cause.

     The study of Negro history has not extended by leaps and bounds
     but the progress of the work is in every way encouraging. The
     number of subscribers to the JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY has not
     increased because of the necessity to double the subscription
     price in keeping with the demands of high prices, but the
     influence of the work has considerably expanded. This magazine is
     now being used as collateral reading in most of the leading white
     and Negro institutions of the country and the number of classes
     thus engaged are increasing every year. There is also a healthy
     public opinion in favor of prosecuting the study of Negro history
     more vigorously. Almost any book setting forth facts as to what
     the Negro has thought and felt and done now has considerable
     demand among persons in this country and abroad. While this
     Association does not claim credit for all which has been
     accomplished in this field, it has certainly given a decided
     stimulus to the work.

     It will be interesting to report, moreover, the number of
     institutions closely cooperating with the Association in
     prosecuting the study of the Negro. Among these may be mentioned
     special classes in this work at Howard University, conducted by
     the Director himself last year, and at the West Virginia
     Collegiate Institute, where he is now engaged. In Lincoln
     Institute, Missouri, considerable good has been accomplished
     among students even of a high school grade, whereas at the State
     Normal and Industrial Institute at Frankfort, Kentucky, the work
     has interested a larger number of more advanced students.
     Institutions like Straight College, Fisk, Atlanta, Morehouse,
     Wilberforce, and Lincoln are laying a good foundation in this
     field.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-TREASURER.    48.86
                           -------                             ---------
  Total Receipts, Sept. 30,                                    $4,755.74
  1919, to Sept. 30,
  1920                   $4,637.47
  Balance Sept. 30, 1919    118.27
                          --------
                         $4,755.74

                    Respectfully submitted,
                         ALETHE H. SMITH,
                    Assist. to the Secretary-Treasurer.

After a brief discussion these reports were accepted and approved. The Association then spent
some time in discussing the advisability of holding annual meetings at strategic points and
there prevailed a motion to the effect that the Executive Council be requested to hold the
next annual meeting of the Association in Atlanta, Georgia. The meeting adjourned after electing
the following as officers: Robert E. Park, President, Jesse E. Moorland, Secretary-Treasurer,
Carter G. Woodson, Director of Research and Editor; who with Julius Rosenwald, George Foster
Peabody, James H. Dillard, John R. Hawkins, Emmett J. Scott, William G. Willcox, Bishop John
Hurst, Albert Bushnell Hart, Thomas Jesse Jones, A. L. Jackson, Moorfield Storey, and Bishop
R. E. Jones, were made members of the Executive Council.

At the evening session at the John Wesley A. M. E. Z. Church, the Association was addressed
by three men of distinction. The first speaker was Professor Kelly Miller of Howard University
who briefly discussed the Limits of Philanthropy in Negro Education, endeavoring to show that
helpful as has been the program of the whites to educate the Negroes, their work must be a
failure, if it does not ultimately result in equipping the Negro to take over his own school
systems that the direction, hitherto in the hands of whites, may be dispensed with.

Professor Robert T. Kerlin of the Virginia Military Institute, having misunderstood his place
on the program appeared at this meeting and, as one of the persons scheduled to address the
session did not present himself, he was permitted to speak. His discourse was an extensive
discussion of the role played by poetry in the civilization of a people and how the Negro poet
is rendering his race and the country service in singing of his woes and clamoring for a new
opportunity.

The meeting was closed with an address by Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, the Editor of the Nation,
discussing the subject, The Economic Bases of the Race Question. His discourse was a political
and sociological treatise based upon facts of history and economics to show the hopelessness
of a program to right the wrongs of the Negroes unless that program has its foundation in things
economic, in as much as the present day situation offers no hope that politics will play any
particular part in the solution. All three speakers made a very favorable impression upon the
audience and so enlightened it by the masterful array of facts presenting their point of view
as to make this one of the most interesting sessions ever held by the Association.

The first session of the second day consisted of a conference on the Negro in America. In the
absence of Dr. R. E. Park, Dr. C. G. Woodson spent most of the time discussing the achievements
in the writing of history of the Negro in America, especially in the United States. He discussed
the various motives actuating persons to enter this field, showing that in most cases these
were propagandists and for that reason a non-partisan and unbiased history of the Negro has
not yet been written. He then discussed the possibility of producing interesting, comprehensive
and valuable works by the proper use of the various materials. These materials, however, contended
he, would have to be given scientific treatment that the whole truth might be extracted therefrom.
He then showed the possibility of error in accepting as evidence the opinions of the proslavery
element about the antislavery element, the opinions of the abolitionists about the colonizationists
and vice versa. These will have to be scientifically examined and after all the actual facts
of Negro history must be determined from such sources as letters, diaries, books of travel,
and unconscious evidence in the current publications of the times.

At the conclusion of the address remarks were made by Mr. A. H. Grimke, Mr. T. C. Williams,
Mr. G. C. Wilkinson, Mr. A. C. Newman, Professor A. H. Locke, Professor Walter Dyson, and Professor
William L. Hansberry. Professor Hansberry discussed for a few minutes the value of the sources
in African history making his talk very illuminating and instructive.

The afternoon was devoted to a meeting of the Executive Council to which the public was not
invited but in the evening a large number of members and friends of the cause attended the
session, at the John Wesley A. M. E. Z. Church. The speakers of the occasion were Mr. Charles
E. Russell of Washington, D. C., and Professor Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard University.
Mr. Russell discussed the Negro's Right to Justice taking the record of the Negro as a worthy
one and the fallacy of discrimination against him in the midst of the struggle for democracy.
The address was both illuminating and convincing. Then followed the address of Professor Hart
on Free Men by Choice. He endeavored to show that no person is actually free. That all elements
of the population and all classes are more or less restricted. This discussion was both legal
and historical, presenting in its various ramifications the social order in the country and
the legislation underlying the same. He finally brought out the important fact that although
the institution of slavery imprisoned the body of the Negroes, it could not control their minds.
Finally, in 1784, Virginia ceded to the Congress of the Confederation all lands lying north
and west of the Ohio River. She wanted it stipulated, however, that the territory between the
Ohio River and the Allegheny Mountains comprising what is now West Virginia should remain forever
hers. Although the Congress did not make this stipulation, for the reason that Virginia was
unable to show title; Virginia was, nevertheless, permitted to retain possession of the said
territory.[2]

"The surface of Virginia of that day is divided into two unequally inclined planes and a centrally
located valley. The eastern plane is subdivided into the Piedmont and the Tidewater; the western
into the Allegheny Highlands, the Cumberland Plateau, and the Ohio Valley section; the area
between was designated the Valley." The eastern part of the State abounds in rich fertile soil,
well adapted to agriculture, while the western portion, especially the trans-Allegheny region
possesses in large quantities such natural resources as bituminous coal, building stone, natural
gas and petroleum.[3] The "Valley," a part of the great Appalachian range of valleys, is a
depressed surface, several hundred feet below the top of the Blue Ridge Mountains on the one
side, and the Alleghenies on the other. It is the dividing line of the two sections of the
State then known as eastern and western Virginia.

The earlier settlements west of the mountains were made by the more adventurous persons of
the east, who had no property or other ties to attach them to the soil whence they came. At
a later date, a more substantial class, Germans and Scotch-Irish Presbyterians, made settlements
in this western country. They brought few slaves with them but engaged in agriculture. A new
type of people from the free States to the north and west, next, came to Western Virginia.[4]

Slavery did not become a flourishing institution there, and in the decades between the years
of 1840 and 1860, the demand for slave labor in the Gulf States caused the bulk of the slave
population to go to that market. The commercial and industrial interests developed there found
their outlets west and north. There was little intercourse of any kind and practically no commerce
with Eastern Virginia. No railroad connected the west with the east. Burning political differences
manifested themselves, and these, with the lack of commercial and social intercourse already
noted, accentuated strife between the two sections,[5] as was manifested in every State constitutional
convention held prior to the Civil War.

The Constitutional Convention of 1829 at Richmond was one of the most important conventions
in the history of the Virginia dissension. The transmontane people, the people of the Valley
and some of those of the Piedmont were arrayed against the aristocratic land owners of the
Tidewater, demanding a greater share in the government of the Commonwealth. The leading issues
before the convention were: (1) the question of extension of suffrage, (2) a more equitable
basis of representation in the legislature, and (3) the question of taxation as a minor problem.

The right of suffrage was then conditioned upon the ownership of land. The law regulating this
matter had remained the same since 1776, except that the number of acres of improved land,
the possession of which entitled one to vote, had been reduced from 50 to 25.[6] Thus all those
persons who were not attached to land or who did not possess land in sufficient quantities
were denied the ballot. The west, whose white population, in 1829, was 319,516, argued and
fought for citizen-suffrage, while the east, whose white population was 362,745 at this time,
representing a fifteen per cent increase since 1790, as compared with one of 150 per cent for
the west, opposed this measure.[7]

The question of the reapportionment of representation was one of the greatest importance. Here
again, just as suffrage was based upon the ownership of land, representation was based upon
interests. In 1828 the House of Delegates consisted of two hundred and fourteen members; the
Senate of twenty-four." Of these numbers the transmontane country had but eighty delegates
and nine senators.[8] This section, then proposed that the basis of apportionment should be
the white population. The cismontane people opposed this, since any change in this direction
would tend to place too much political power in the hands of the westerners.

After a discussion on the white and mixed bases proposals, which lasted three weeks, the convention
finally turned to a consideration of the various plans of compromise. Mr. Gordon, of Albemarle
County, presented a plan which was finally accepted with slight modifications. He ignored completely
the basis question and attempted an equitable distribution of representation. "It provided
for a Senate of twenty-four, of which ten would come from the West; and a House of one hundred
and twenty; of which twenty-six would come from the trans-Allegheny, twenty-four from the Valley,
thirty-seven from the Piedmont and thirty-three from the Tidewater."[9] Incidentally this plan
was quite acceptable to the populous counties of the Piedmont foothills and the Valley, for
it tended to increase their representation.

As a constitutional basis for future reapportionments of representation, the following provision
was made a part of the constitution:

     "That the General Assembly, after the year of 1841 and at
     intervals of not less than ten years, shall have authority,
     two-thirds of each House concurring, to make re-apportionments of
     Delegates and Senators throughout the Commonwealth, so that the
     number of Delegates shall not at any time exceed one hundred and
     fifty, nor of Senators thirty-six."[10]

The question of taxation was one of some importance. Prior to 1829, the west had drawn annually
for administrative purposes more than it had contributed to the treasury. Real estate values
in the west were low because of the lack of speculative spirit there, and, consequently, taxes
were not collected in great amounts. The west now desired (1) greater revenues to construct
roads and canals and to maintain free schools and (2) the power to tax the slave property of
the east. There were at this time east of the Blue Ridge Mountains 397,000 Negro slaves subject
to taxation and nearly 50,000 in the west. The slave property contributed one-third of the
revenue of the State. The east, therefore, determined not to give to the west the desired power
to tax her property.[11]

Although the question of reapportionment of representation, the
question of taxation and the suffrage question were among the foremost
considerations of the Convention, the underlying and basic cause of
all this strife was the slavery issue.[12] Those who advocated and
supported the institution of slavery were loath to surrender to the
people of the west any of the power and privileges that they
possessed. Some of Eastern Virginia and a great majority of the people
in Western Virginia were opposed to slavery. We cannot conceive that there is any
     other cause sufficiently operative to paralyze the energies of a
     people so magnanimous, to neutralize the blessings of Providence
     included in the gift of a land so happy in its soil, its climate,
     its minerals and its waters; and to annul the manifold advantages
     of our republican system and geographical position. If Virginia
     has already fallen from her high estate, and if we have assigned
     a true cause for her fall, it is with the utmost anxiety that we
     look to the future to the fatal termination of the scene. As we
     value our domestic happiness, as our hearts yearn for the
     prosperity of our offspring, as we pray for the guardian care of
     the Almighty over our Country--we earnestly inquire what shall be
     done to avert the impending ruin. The efficient cause of our
     calamities is vigorously increasing in magnitude and potency,
     while we wake and while we sleep."[14]

The able men in the convention saw that no permanent agreement could be reached between the
two sections until the basic cause of the whole conflict had been settled. The power of the
big planters, however, was too great and there was made no constitutional provision having
the purpose to abolish slavery. The Convention of 1829-30, therefore, settled nothing. A compromise
was effected on the question of re-apportionment of representation; a constitutional provision
set forth a program of future apportionments; but the permanent settlement of this and other
important questions was left for the Convention of 1850.

The Assembly of 1831-32 was the scene of an intense debate on the issue of slavery. Because
of a turn of events, a more definite cleavage had come between the east and the west. The domestic
slave trade, improved methods of agriculture, internal improvements, better means of communication,
the consequent increase of capital which helped to restore the impoverished lands and to bring
into use the uncultivated areas of the east, brought about in that section a marked revival
of interest in the economic possibilities of slavery.[15] The west took a step in the opposite
direction.

It must be remembered, however, that there were but few abolitionists of the extreme type in
the western sections of Virginia. The responsible leaders in this movement against slavery
were not concerned with any moral or religious theories on the subject, but rather, were acting
because of their conviction that slavery was an economic evil. These men saw that the States
to the north and west of them had outstripped them in the race for material prosperity. They
saw, too, the gradual but unrelenting impoverishment of the east. They concluded, therefore,
that their lack of prosperity was due to their proximity to the slave-holding section of the
State. The belief became current that the natural resources of the west would attract capital
and population, if the objectional slaves were removed. In consequence, therefore, they favored
a gradual emancipation and deportation of the slaves.[16]

Numerous petitions, memorials and resolutions found their way to the Assembly. These may be
divided into three classes: (1) those asking for the removal of free Negroes from the State;
(2) those seeking to amend the Federal Constitution with a view to giving Congress power to
appropriate money with which to purchase slaves and transport them and the free Negroes from
the United States; and (3) those urging the State to devise some scheme for gradual emancipation.[17]
The first class of petitions came principally from the large slave-holding sections of the
State; the second and third classes came from those sections of the State in which slaves were
not numerous.

It was evident that this Assembly must take a definite position with reference to the question
of the abolishment of slavery. Accordingly, therefore, a number of these resolutions concerning
slavery were referred to a select committee composed of twenty-one members, sixteen of whom
were from counties east of the Blue Ridge. After three days of conference, during which fiery
discussions and motions were rampant in the legislature, the committee reported to the effect
that "it is inexpedient for the present to make any legislative enactment for the abolition
of slavery."[18] Mr. Preston, of Montgomery, moved immediately to amend the report by substituting
therefor: "It is expedient at this time to adopt some legislative enactment for the abolition
of slavery."[19] The amendment was defeated by a vote of seventy-three to fifty-eight.

The discussion of 1832 was followed by a decided reaction against the proposal for the abolition
of slavery. Professor Thomas R. Dew, of William and Mary College, crystallized the pro-slavery
sentiment in a masterful essay entitled: A Review of the Debates in the Virginia Legislature
of 1831-32. This essay dealt with the theoretical and practical aspects of slavery in all countries
and especially with the rise and development of Negro slavery in America. It pointed out the
difficulties attendant upon the deportation of the free black and slave populations, and the
danger to society of their emancipation without deportation. It ridiculed the idea of a successful
slave uprising under the conditions then obtaining, and held that the whole discussion of so
momentous a question by young and inexperienced legislators was entirely out of order.[21]
The forceful argument of Professor Dew was met by one from Jesse Burton Harrison, whose essay
was entitled: "A Review of the Speech of Thomas Marshall in the Virginia Assembly of 1831-32."
Mr. Harrison's arguments to prove that Negro slavery in Virginia was an economic evil appeared
to be merely a reiteration of the arguments of Marshall.[22] Former President Madison also
replied briefly to Dew. His essay set forth that Dew had held too cheaply the presence of Negro
slavery and emigration and ascribed too much importance to the influence of the tariff laws.[23]

By far the most important sectional issue in Virginia during the period 1834 to 1850 was that
arising out of a movement for a united slave-holding South. The Virginia Congressmen had voted
as a body against the "Wilmot Proviso," the abolition of the domestic slave trade and the abolition
of slavery in the District of Columbia. In spite of these facts, leading citizens of Western
Virginia were trying to devise ways and means whereby to rid that portion of the State of Negro
slavery. Dr. Henry Ruffner, Henry McDowell Moore and John Letcher were prominent among those
who proposed a plan whereby the gradual emancipation of all slaves in the State west of the
Blue Ridge Mountains would be effected. The plan was first debated in the Franklin Society
at Lexington in 1847. Later it appeared as a pamphlet entitled An Address to the People of
West Virginia by a Slaveholder of West Virginia. This pamphlet proposed to show that slavery
was opposed to the public welfare and that it might be gradually abolished without results
detrimental to the rights and interests of the slave holders. It contained elaborate comparisons
between the slave-holding States and those not holding slaves, to the disadvantage of the former,
in tending to prove that slavery was an economic evil.[24]

Dr. Ruffner, later speaking of the movement, said: "No one so far as I can remember took the
abolitionist ground that slave holding was a sin and ought to be abolished. With us, it was
merely a question of expediency and was argued with special reference to the interests of West
Virginia." Speaking of the reception of the pamphlet in Western Virginia, he said that the
editors in the Valley, doubting the success of the scheme, hesitated to endorse his efforts;
but that west of the Alleghenies it met with a most encouraging reception.[25]

There began during the two decades from 1830 to 1850 a period of internal improvements because
of a rapid increase in the population and wealth of Western Virginia. The construction of turnpikes
and local railroads in the trans-Allegheny country and the projection of other improvements
attracted there immigrants, and served also to interest speculation in its cheap lands and
natural resources. English and eastern capitalists purchased large tracts of land and sold
them in small parcels to settlers who occupied them.[26] Capitalists from the Middle West and
New England States established small manufactories there, and immigrants coming thither chose
between working therein and becoming farmers or teachers. A considerable German population
was numbered among these immigrants. The census of 1850 showed an excess of 90,372 white population
in the West over that in the East. The lands in the transmontane country had risen to a value
of only fifteen million dollars less than the cash value of the lands east of the Blue Ridge.[27]

It is significant that the improvements during this period had tended, altogether, to connect
the commercial interests of Western Virginia more definitely with those of the Free States
to the north and west. Not a single railroad connected the western part of the State with the
Tidewater. The proceeds of bond issues floated to promote internal improvements in the State
had not been used to effect commercial ties between the two sections of the State, nor had
any considerable portion thereof been used to improve the western districts. On the other hand,
the interest of the people at the foot hills of the Piedmont had become more definitely aligned
with those of the other eastern sections of the State. The chief grievance of the former had
been remedied by the compromise convention of 1829-30, which gave them a larger representation
in the House of Delegates. Likewise, the pursuit of intensive agriculture in the Valley had
led to the introduction of many slaves there, thus tending to create a bond of interest between
this region and the slave-holding east. In the Constitutional Convention of 1850, therefore,
the people of the transmontane country found themselves arrayed against the three other sections
of the State.[28]

It has been herein noted that the Convention of 1829-30 settled nothing. A compromise had been
effected which relieved somewhat the tension that existed over the matter of representation.
The constitutional provision that gave to the Assembly the power, after 1841 and thereafter
at intervals of not less than ten years, and under prescribed conditions, to make re-apportionments
of representation had never been availed of. In view of its phenomenal growth in wealth and
population, the west keenly resented this failure to act on the part of the Assembly of 1841-42.[29]
The questions, therefore, that confronted the Convention of 1829-30 were again brought forward
in 1850.

The Convention of 1850 met at Richmond in October, but shortly adjourned until January 6, 1851.
In February the question of the basis of representation was taken up. The Committee appointed
to determine the proper basis could reach no agreement; thereupon, many plans were submitted
by delegates from each section of the State. The western delegates proposed that the House
of Delegates should consist of one hundred and fifty-six members, should be elected biennially,
and that the Senate should consist of fifty members chosen for four years; both Houses should
be elected upon the suffrage basis; and in 1862 and every ten years thereafter, a re-apportionment
should be made on that basis. The eastern delegates proposed a House of Delegates of one hundred
and fifty-six members and a Senate of thirty-six; both Houses should be elected on the mixed
basis and re-apportionments should be made on that basis in 1855 and every ten years thereafter.[30]

Neither of these plans was adopted. Consequently various plans of compromise were brought forward.
Botts, of Richmond, and George W. Summers, of Kanawha, were among those who suggested propositions.
On the motion of Mr. Martin, of Henry County, it was decided that a committee of eight, four
from each section, be elected by the convention to provide a compromise. On the fifteenth day
of May, this committee reported in favor of a House of Delegates of one hundred and fifty members;
eighty-two from the west and sixty-eight from the east; and a Senate of fifty; thirty from
the east and twenty from the west. It provided further for a re-apportionment in 1865 and for
submitting both the mixed and suffrage bases to the people should the Assembly, at that time,
fail to agree.[31] The plan was rejected. Following the failure of several other compromise
plans, Chilton presented with modifications the report of the committee of eight.[32] This
report provided that the numbers therein indicated for each house remain unchanged; but should
the legislature of 1865 fail to re-apportion representation, the governor would be "required
to submit to the vote of the people four propositions, namely; (1) the suffrage basis, (2)
the mixed basis, (3) the white population basis, and (4) the taxation basis." This plan was
carried in committee of the whole and later, with slight modifications, was adopted by the
Convention.

The question of suffrage was settled amicably since the delegates from neither section opposed
an extension thereof. The privilege of the ballot, therefore, was extended to "Every white
male citizen of the commonwealth of the age of twenty-one years";[33] paupers and others usually
excepted, not to be included.

The question of taxation was one of the important issues to be settled. The eastern delegates
opposed the white basis of representation, chiefly through the fear that westerners would use
their newly gained political power to tax slave property to secure funds for internal improvements.[34]
The eastern members insisted, therefore, that all property taxes should be ad valorem and that
no one species should be taxed higher than another. They were unwilling, too, that Negro slaves
under twelve years of age should be taxed at all. It was finally provided that an ad valorem
tax be placed on all property according to its value, but that Negro slaves under twelve years
of age be exempt and slaves twelve years and over be taxed per capita at not more than the
tax on land worth three hundred dollars.[35] The inhabitants of the west never became reconciled
to this discriminating arrangement and it was especially irritating during the years immediately
preceding the war,[36] when the price of slaves often ranged from sixteen hundred to eighteen
hundred dollars.[37]

In this Convention the men of the west were less bent upon obtaining a constitutional provision
declaring for the gradual emancipation of slaves than they were in 1829-30. Their efforts were
directed towards shifting the political balance of power from east to west, whereby this purpose
might be accomplished with less difficulty.[38] In this they were not successful. Likewise
the east was dissatisfied over the apportionment of representation and the west did not want
to accept the principle of taxation.[39] The question of the extension of suffrage was the
only leading issue settled. This convention, like that of 1829-30, was essentially a compromise
convention; for no permanent settlement of the great problems could be effected with the State
virtually half slave and half free.

The Virginia policy during the period of 1850 to 1861 was influenced largely by the nation-wide
idea that the question of slavery could be settled only by civil strife. Accordingly the Virginia
politicians, and especially Governor Wise[40] during his term of office, were at great pains
to connect Eastern Virginia in thought and in purpose with the slave-holding South. This was
a period of great internal improvements in Virginia. The State incurred a bonded debt of thirty-six
million dollars. Many of the loans constituting this debt were used to promote and facilitate
the building of railroads and canals. The railroads in question, almost without exception,
tended to connect Eastern Virginia socially, industrially and commercially with her neighbors
to the south. On the other hand, the only large railroad of Western Virginia, the Baltimore
and Ohio, was constantly discriminated against at Richmond[41] and in every session of the
legislature restrictions were aimed at its activities. It is significant that the hostility
to railroad facilities for the Northwest persisted down to the beginning of the Civil War.[42]

While Western Virginia was denied railroad facilities out of deference to southern and slave-holding
interests, liberal appropriations were made for the building of turnpike roads in that territory.[43]
This consideration tended to some extent to alleviate the feeling of dissatisfaction. The fact
remained, however, that Western Virginia had become one in thought and in purpose with the
people of Pennsylvania and Ohio, and she was influenced considerably by her intercourse with
Baltimore. It was to these places that she had easy access. It followed, therefore, that in
1861 when Eastern Virginia seceded from the Union and went with the slave-holding States of
the South, the western part of the State had little choice save to remain loyal to the Union.

SECESSION AND ITS RESULTS

In 1860 there were in all Virginia 498,887 slaves, of whom 12,771 were in the forty-eight counties
originally constituting the State of West Virginia.[44] With an overwhelming majority of all
the slaves in the State located in the East, the people of this section were, naturally enough,
profoundly interested in the events then occurring in other pro-slavery commonwealths. Influenced
by the secession of six States from the Union and their subsequent formation of the Confederate
States of America, Governor Letcher issued a proclamation convening the General Assembly in
extra session on the seventh day of January, 1861.[45]

According to the act of the Assembly, a state convention was assembled at Richmond on the thirteenth
day of February. Forty-seven of the one hundred and fifty-two delegates present represented
counties now included in the State of West Virginia.[46] On the sixteenth of April the Convention
met in secret session and the chairman of the Committee on Federal Relations appointed early
in February reported a measure entitled "An Ordinance to Repeal the Ratification of the Constitution
of the United States."[47] The ordinance recited the reasons for the repeal of the ratification
of the Federal Constitution, dissolved the union between Virginia and the other States, asserted
the complete sovereignty of the State of Virginia, released her citizens from responsibility
to the Federal Constitution, noted the date upon which and provided the conditions under which
the said ordinance would become effective. It was adopted the next day by a vote of eighty-eight
to fifty-five. Immediate steps were then taken to form an alliance with the Confederate States,[48]
the same being effected on the twenty-fifth day of April. Meanwhile some of the delegates from
Western Virginia withdrew from the Convention.

When news of the action taken by the Richmond convention reached Northwestern Virginia a storm
of protest arose. A vast majority of the citizens of this region were not in accord with the
action of the State in seceding to the Confederacy. They were determined, therefore, that the
part of the State known as the trans-Allegheny region should be saved to the Union. Resolutions
emanating from the meetings held in the several counties joined with the press to denounce
the action taken by the aforesaid convention. The Clarksburg[49] meeting, assembled for this
purpose on the twenty-second of April, sounded the call for united action and proposed that
a convention composed of the twenty-seven counties of Western Virginia should assemble at Wheeling
on the thirteenth of May.

The May Convention assembled at the time and place indicated and proceeded straightway to the
business of the hour. The permanent President, John W. Moss, of Wood county, outlined the purpose
of the Convention.[50] His remarks were followed by a resolution of Mr. Tarr, of Brooke County,
to the effect that "a Committee, to be known as the Committee on Federal and State Relations
and to comprise one member from each County, be appointed by the President to consider all
resolutions of the body looking to action by the Convention."[51] Significant among the numerous
resolutions presented was one by John S. Carlile calling for a new Virginia,[52] but the sense
of the Convention was that such action was premature.

Out of the maze of resolutions offered, the committee finally made its report. Among other
provisions, the report recommended that in the event of the ratification, by vote, of the Ordinance
of Secession, the counties there represented and all others disposed to co-operate with them,
should appoint delegates on the fourth day of June to meet in general convention on the eleventh
day of June at such place as thereinafter provided, with a view to devising such measures and
taking such action as the people they represent might demand.[53] It was further recommended
that a central committee be appointed to attend to all matters connected with the objects of
the convention, to assemble it at their discretion and to prepare an address to the people
of Virginia in conformity with the resolution there made.[54]

The passage, on the twenty-third day of May, of the Ordinance of Secession, necessitated the
meeting of the second convention. It assembled on the eleventh of June at Wheeling. Upon the
effecting of a permanent organization, Mr. Dorsey, of Monongalia, offered a resolution to the
effect that immediate steps be taken to form a new State from the counties represented.[55]
Mr. Carlile endeavored to show a lack of wisdom in such a course, saying: "Let us organize
a legislature, swearing allegiance to the Federal Government, and let that legislature be recognized
by the government of the United States as the legislature of the State of Virginia."[56] He
urged that under that condition they would be under the protecting care of the Federal Government
and would be in position to effect a constitutional separation from Virginia. His judgment
prevailed.

The important acts of this Convention were: (1) the Declaration of Rights of the People of
Virginia and its adoption;[57] (2) the adoption of an Ordinance for the Reorganization of the
State[58] and (3) the election of State Officers.[59] The Convention then adjourned.

On the sixth of August, the adjourned Convention reassembled, as provided, at Wheeling. The
principal work of this convention was the adoption of an ordinance to provide for the formation
of a new State out of a portion of the State of Virginia.[60] It provided also for an election
to be held on the twenty-fourth of October (1) to ratify the ordinance there adopted and (2)
to select delegates to a convention to frame a constitution for the new State, in case a majority
of the voters should decide in favor of formation. The vote at this election was 18,408 for
ratification and 481 for rejection. Accordingly, upon certification of the same to the governor,
he issued his proclamation, calling the delegates elected to a constitutional convention to
meet in Wheeling on the twenty-sixth of November.[61]

The Constitutional Convention met at the scheduled time in the United States Court room at
Wheeling.[62] Thirty-four delegates of the forty chosen were present. No time was lost in effecting
a permanent organization of the Convention, in order that the momentous problems to be solved
might be brought before that august body. Not the least important one of these questions was
that of the disposal of slavery. The questions of the hour were these: Was the new State to
be a free or a slave State? Would the Union admit another slave State?

It was on the fourteenth day of the Convention that Robert Hagar, a Methodist preacher from
Boone county, offered a resolution to the effect that the convention inquire into the propriety
of making the new State free, by incorporating into the Constitution a clause for gradual emancipation.[63]
A counter proposal was offered on the same day by Mr. Brown, an ardent pro-slavery advocate,
from Kanawha. His resolution asserted that it was "unwise and impolitic to introduce the question
of slavery into the Convention."[64] Despite the fact that the organic law of the new State
was then being framed, this pro-slavery champion deplored any attempt of the body to discuss
or decide upon the question of slavery, the most vital question of economic policy with which
the people would be concerned. There were present, however, other men who were determined to
champion the cause of freedom.

On the sixteenth day of the convention the courageous Mr. Gordon Battelle, a delegate from
Ohio county, offered for reference the following proposition:[65]

     (1) "No slave shall be brought into the State for permanent
     residence after the adoption of this constitution.

     (2) "The legislature shall have full power to make such just and
     humane provisions as may be needful for the better regulation and
     security of the marriage and family relations between slaves, for
     their proper instruction, and for the gradual and equitable
     removal of slaves from the State.

     (3) "On and after the fourth day of July 18--, slavery or
     involuntary servitude, except for crime, shall cease within the
     limits of this State."

It is obvious that the first set of propositions provided for the total abolition of slavery,
the date undetermined; whereas the second, while providing for the freedom of the children,
born of slave parents on and after a specified date, condemned to perpetual slavery all other
persons who prior to that date were slaves.

In line with the proposals of Mr. Battelle was the pertinent and clear-sighted editorial of
The Wheeling Intelligencer under date of December ninth, 1861. It said: "We have endeavored
to show how entirely adverse to the best interests of Western Virginia it would be for the
present convention to adjourn without first engrafting a free State provision on our constitution
in shape of a three, five or ten years emancipation clause. We should esteem it far better
that the Convention had never assembled than that it should omit to take action of this character....
Congress would hesitate long before it will consent to the subdivision of a slave State simply
that two slave States may be made out of it. The evil which has so nearly destroyed not only
Western Virginia, but the whole country, will find that its tug-of-war is yet to come, when
it has run the gauntlet of our Convention and our Legislature. We believe that when it reaches
Congress, it will reach its hitherto and that it will never pass. It will avail very little
for this convention to remain in debate on this subject for a month at a heavy expense and
consummate a work which will only last end in a defeat and entail upon its framers the cold
distrust of the only friends they have in the world. The loyal masses of the free States who
are fighting the great battle of Constitutional freedom, who are endeavoring to stay the absorbing
and consuming demands of slavery upon this continent, will never consent that in the very midst
of them it shall burst out, in a new place, with the extraordinary demands that its present
representation of a state in their Senate shall be doubled.... We say then to the members of
our convention that before you waste your time and money on a constitution you look to its
probable fate."[67]

That this prophetic message from the Intelligencer reflected the opinion of the people of Western
Virginia and the state of mind of the Congress, was clearly shown by subsequent events. On
the nineteenth day of the Convention an adroit attempt was made to have West Virginia become
a slave State.[68] Thomas Harrison, of Harrison county, offered a resolution providing that
the making of a new constitution be dispensed with for the present, and that the Virginia Constitution
be referred to a Committee of Five with instructions to modify it to suit the needs of the
proposed new State. Significant among the provisions of the Virginia Constitution was one altered
at the Richmond Secession Convention to the effect that the General Assembly should have power
to prohibit the future emancipation of slaves. By its provisions, therefore, the slave could
never become free during his residence in the State. On motion of Mr. Van Winkle, the Convention
voted that action on the resolution be indefinitely postponed.[69]

Battelle, persistent in his efforts to make some provision in reference to the freedom of the
slaves, decided to submit emancipation to the people. Accordingly, therefore, on the twelfth
of February, 1862, he offered the following:[70]

     (1) "Resolved. That at the same time when this Constitution is
     submitted to the qualified voters of the proposed new state to be
     voted for or against, an additional section to article----, in
     the words following: 'No slave shall be brought or free person of
     color come into this state for permanent residence after this
     constitution goes into operation, and all children, born of slave
     mothers after the year 1870 shall be free, the males at the age
     of twenty-eight years, and the females at the age of eighteen
     years; and the children of such females shall be free at birth'.
     Shall be separately submitted to the qualified voters of the
     proposed new state for their adoption or rejection, and if the
     majority of the votes cast for and against said additional
     section are in favor of its adoption, it shall be made a part of
     article--of this constitution and not otherwise."

     (2) "Resolved that the committee on schedule be and they are
     hereby instructed to report the necessary provisions for carrying
     the foregoing resolution into effect."

Mr. Sinsel moved that the resolutions be made the order of the next morning at ten o'clock;
Mr. Hall, of Marion county, moved to amend the motion to the effect that it be laid on the
table. Mr. Battelle deplored the application of the gag rule. The question not being a debatable
one, the vote was taken. By a majority of one vote of the forty-seven cast, the resolutions
were indefinitely laid on the table.[71]

On the thirteenth day of February, after the disposition of other important business, Mr. Pomeroy,
of Hancock county, suggested that the questions raised by the resolutions offered the day before
by Mr. Battelle might be compromised, either by adopting one of the propositions already presented,
or by referring the whole matter to a representative committee of conference. Many members
of the convention shared the views of Mr. Pomeroy and so stated their convictions to the body.
Indeed they favored the settlement of the question then and there, without reference to a committee.
Mr. Hall, of Marion, was of the opinion that its reference to a committee might carry abroad
the idea that a division existed there; that that which was done, was accomplished only through
a committee of compromise. Mr. Hervey was convinced that the new State must be a free State
and therefore desired to vote the proposition as it stood, without the committee. Mr. Dille
was of the opinion that there would be no objection to a constitutional provision forbidding
the entrance into the State for permanent residence, of free Negroes or slaves, after the adoption
of the Constitution. Mr. Brown, of Kanawha, sustained the view of Mr. Dille. Mr. Pomeroy made
a motion to the effect that the first clause of Mr. Battelle's resolution be acted upon by
the body. Mr. Battelle favored the reference of the question to a committee, thus opposing
a vote that morning because he had assured a colleague of the opposite side that the question
would not be brought up that morning and he wanted that all the proponents and opponents of
the measure be present at the taking of the vote.

Mr. Stewart, of Doddridge, the gentleman to whom Mr. Battelle referred, having just entered,
stated that he understood the motion before the House to be a compromise measure that would
settle the question. Thereupon, Mr. Battelle served notice that while he would support the
pending motion, he had entered into no compromise. It was his plan, therefore, to prosecute
the case before the public forum. A significant incident to the general election was the informal
vote taken, at the suggestion of The Wheeling Intelligencer, on Mr. Battelle's emancipation
proposition which had been rejected by the Convention. Despite the irregular and unauthorized
manner in which this was done, by the several counties holding such extra election, the count
showed that six thousand votes were cast for emancipation and six hundred against.[73] It is
not improbable, therefore, that the constitution would have been adopted without difficulty
had the emancipation clause been included. The politicians and not the people were on the wrong
side of the issue.

Pursuant to the call of the Governor, the general assembly met in its second extra session
on the sixth of May.[74] On the thirteenth day of the same month it passed "An Act giving the
assent of the Legislature of Virginia to the Formation of and Erection of a New State within
the jurisdiction of this State."[75] Everything was now in readiness for the presentation of
documents and credentials to Congress, by the proposed new State, in support of its application
for admission into the Union.

Prior to this Mr. Battelle, in pursuance of his earnest efforts to make the proposed new State
free, had prepared a masterly address on the subject of the emancipation of the slaves, to
be delivered in convention to his colleagues. The sense of the convention was such that the
courageous gentleman was unable to engage its attention for that purpose. Accordingly, therefore,
he had printed in pamphlet form the address that he intended to deliver, and distributed it
throughout the counties of Northwestern Virginia. Among the salient points therein set forth
the following are noteworthy: first, that since the institution of slavery as it existed within
the bounds of Western Virginia was the mere creature of law, the law was competent to remove
it; and that, therefore, it was fairly and properly a subject for the consideration of those
in convention assembled; second, that the gradual emancipation of the slaves was both fundamental
and vital to the success of the new State, and in consequence thereof the question should be
settled in the organic law. Mr. Battelle discussed the question from two points of view, that
of principle, and that of expediency. It was developed that the principle of slavery was wrong
and that the system, therefore, should be abolished. "While discrimination must be made between
the system and the acts of individuals, the former," he said, "is always bad, is always inconsistent
with the obvious requirements of either justice or morals."[76]

Considering the proposition in the light of expediency, the question was asked: "What do the
best interests of the people of West Virginia require from the persons assembled to frame the
organic law?" In reply thereto there was developed the theme that labor was fundamental to
the material prosperity of the commonwealth; that slave labor and free had always been and
would doubtless always be unharmonious and inconsistent in purpose. Since slave labor, it was
pointed out, was competent to perform only the crudest work and most menial tasks, it followed
that free labor was indispensable to the material progress of the new State. "Slave labor,"
Battelle said, "drove out free labor and tended to make all labor undignified and despised.
It should, therefore, be dispensed with." In reply to the assertion that since the system was
destined to die a quick and certain death no action on the part of the State was necessary,
Mr. Battelle urged that "if that be true, it furnished an additional reason for the incorporation
into the constitution of a provision terminating slavery." "Such action would be but just to
all parties--to both the proponents and the opponents of the present system." The argument
closed with an exposition, first, on slavery as the fundamental cause of the then current distress
in Virginia and in the nation; and second, on the propriety of such an act at that particular
time. This argument doubtless had an unexpected effect in preparing the minds of the people
of the State for the acceptance of the plan of gradual emancipation, the condition on which
West Virginia was finally admitted.[77]

SLAVERY AND THE ADMISSION OF WEST VIRGINIA

Waitman T. Willey, a member of the Senate from Virginia, having obtained the permission of
that body to do so, presented on May 29th a certified original of the constitution together
with a copy of an Act of the General Assembly of Virginia, of May 13, 1862, under the Restored
Government, giving its permission for the formation of a new State within the commonwealth
of Virginia. He presented at the same time the memorial of the General Assembly requesting
Congress to admit the State of West Virginia into the Union. Following the receipt of these
documents they were referred to the Committee on Territories, of which B. F. Wade, of Ohio,
was the Chairman.[78]

On the twenty-third of June Senate Bill No. 365 providing for "the admission of the State of
West Virginia into the Union" was reported, read and passed to a second reading.[79] On the
twenty-sixth day of June, on motion of Mr. Wade, the bill was taken up for immediate consideration
in a committee of the whole. The bill proposed to admit West Virginia into the Union on equal
footing with the original States in all respects whatever, subject, among other conditions,
to the following: "That the convention thereinafter provided for shall in the constitution
to be framed by it, make provision that from and after the fourth day of July, 1863, the children
of all slaves born within the limits of the said State shall be free."[80]

Following the action noted, Mr. Sumner, Senator from Massachusetts, quoted that provision of
the bill relating to the emancipation of slaves and raised the following objections, namely:
(1) that by the passage of the bill a new slave State would be admitted into the Union and
(2) that the existing generation of slaves would remain such throughout the course of their
lives. He was unalterably opposed to the measure so long as it contained these features; and
he, therefore, sought to remove them by means of the same policy that Jefferson applied to
the territories of the Northwest.

Dissatisfied with the purport of the proposed amendment, Senator Willey expressed his intention
to amend the same; whereupon the presiding officer of the Senate proposed that he offer an
amendment to the bill rather than to the proposed amendment of Senator Sumner. In the meanwhile,
Mr. Hale, of New Hampshire, a member of the committee that framed the bill, affirmed his intention
to sustain it. His remarks were suspended by order of the chair for the purpose of considering
another matter which had priority to the one then being discussed.

On the motion of Senator Willey the bill was again considered on the first day of July, the
question pending being the amendment of Mr. Sumner.[82] In support thereof, Mr. Sumner asserted
that from statistics of Mr. Willey it appeared that twelve thousand bondsmen in Western Virginia
were doomed to continue as such for the remainder of their lives, and that consequently the
Senate must, for a generation, be afflicted with two additional slave-holding members. He quoted
from Webster's speech of December 22, 1845, on the admission of Texas into the Union and rested
his case on its arguments. Briefly stated, Mr. Webster opposed the admission of other States
into the Union as slave States, and at the same time granting to them the inequalities arising
from the mode of apportioning representation to Congress, as granted by the Constitution to
the original slave-holding States. He held that the free States have the right to demand the
abolition of slavery by a commonwealth seeking admission with a slave-holding constitution.[83]

During the continuation of the debate, Mr. Hale asserted that Mr. Webster abandoned the position
just attributed to him when in 1850 he voted against any restrictions upon any territory coming
into the Union with a slave-holding constitution and when he voted exclusively against applying
the "Wilmot Proviso" to these States. Mr. Hale added tersely that since Congress had consistently
admitted States with slave-holding constitutions providing for perpetual slavery, it would
be the merest folly to refuse to admit the first State whose constitution provided for gradual
emancipation.[84]

A new issue was injected into the debate when Mr. Collamer, of Vermont, while reviewing what
is implied in being a sovereign State and a State in the Union, argued that the imposition
by Congress of any condition precedent to the entrance, whether or not that condition be the
abolition of slavery, is an unwarranted interference with the internal affairs of that State.
Under such circumstances the proposed new State would not come into the Union on equal footing
with other States. He did not wish, however, to be understood as saying that he would not vote
against a State desiring to come in as a perpetual slave-holding State; but he failed to see
the wisdom or justice in making the abolition of slavery a condition precedent to entrance.
Chairman Wade, of the Committee of Territories, made thereupon the following important remarks:
(1) that the proposed new State had voluntarily fixed the marks of extermination of the institution
of slavery; (2) that the principal men of the commonwealth had told him that the first legislature
to convene would do away with the whole institution, as fast as the nature of the case would
permit; (3) that he believed the efforts of West Virginia were constitutional; (4) that it
was just and expedient to admit her; (5) that he did not favor the inclusion in the commonwealth
of the pro-slavery counties of the Valley; (6) that he did not want a provision saying that
a person born one day should be a slave forever, and that one born the next day should be free;
and finally (7) that he would like to see an amendment, providing that "all children who, at
the time this constitution takes effect, are fifteen or sixteen years of age, shall be free
upon arriving at the age of twenty-one or thirty-five years," i.e., a provision for gradual
emancipation that will enable some of those born before as well as all of those born July fourth,
1863, to obtain their freedom.[87]

Mr. Fessenden, of Maine, prefacing his remarks with the statement that he had not examined
the question, proceeded to make the following observations: (1) that he wished to be assured
that the State could be admitted constitutionally; (2) that considering the position of the
State, the feeling of the people about the matter, the small number of slaves there at the
present time, he believed it not only the duty, but the entire right of the body (Congress)
to prescribe before the State comes in that she shall put herself in a proper and irreversible
position on the subject of the gradual abolition of slavery; (3) that when a definite and fixed
date is given for the termination of slavery, the State becomes in point of fact a free State;
(4) that he was glad to know (according to Mr. Wade) that the people of West Virginia concurred
in opinion with the principles sponsored by himself; and (5) that the interests of the State
itself and those of all of the States in the Union demanded an irreversible agreement on the
whole matter.[88] Further consideration of the bill was then postponed.

Shortly after an unsuccessful attempt on the part of Mr. Willey to have the consideration of
the bill continue,[89] it was brought up again on the fourteenth of July by Senator Wade. The
pending question was the amendment of Mr. Sumner. The vote was taken and the amendment was
rejected.[90] Mr. Willey then offered the amendment already herein noted. He was followed by
Mr. Wade, who, expecting the State to be admitted, if at all, under the amendment of Mr. Willey,
moved to amend the amendment by inserting at the proper place the words: "And that all slaves
within the State who shall at the aforesaid time be under twenty-one years, shall be free when
they arrive at the age of twenty-one years."[91] Despite the anti-slavery principle here involved,
Mr. Wade was convinced that some provision was necessary to facilitate the running of the bill
in the Senate and in the House. He thought, too, that the harshness and abruptness of the bill
would be thereby smoothed down, softened and rendered harmonious.[92]

It was no easy task, however, that the Senator from Ohio had essayed to accomplish. His proposal
brought from Mr. Willey the personal conviction of the man. Mr. Willey preferred that the State
be admitted under the constitution precisely as submitted by the people. That not being possible,
he wished that his amendment (which was not to his personal tastes) be carried. He deplored
the situation that would follow should the amendment of Mr. Wade be passed. He pointed out:
(1) that the majority of slaves were in counties contiguous to what would be the borders of
the old State of Virginia; (2) that many of them ranged in age from one to twenty-one years;
(3) that when they should arrive at a convenient age for sale, they would be silently transferred
across the border into Kentucky or Virginia or the further South, if needs be, and there sold
into the cotton fields of the South or the tobacco plantations of the East, where slavery was
admittedly at its worst; (4) that many of the slaves were females, the offspring of whom would
be free, were the mothers allowed to remain in the State, but upon the passage of the amendment
even those would be doomed to the perpetual slavery of the far South. Replying to an inquiry
made by Mr. Lane, of Kansas, as to whether or not public sentiment would condone such action,
he asked if public sentiment would be likely to influence those slave owners who lived in territory
contiguous to Virginia. The loyalty and fidelity of West Virginia should, in Mr. Willey's opinion,
guarantee the safe manner in which the commonwealth would handle the question. Never before
in similar situations, he argued, had slaves in esse been freed; freedom extended only to those
unborn at the passage of the constitution or to those born on or after a date therein designated.[93]

Again joining issue with Senator Willey, Mr. Lane pointed out that the same situation arose
in Kansas when in February, 1856, the people adopted a constitution providing for the emancipation
of the slaves on the fourth of the following July. The slaves, however, handled the situation.
They told their masters that since they should become free after the date designated, they
would not permit themselves to be taken out of the State prior to that date.[94] Mr. Lane did
not doubt the capacity to do likewise on the part of the slaves then being considered.

An interesting spectacle presented itself when the two Senators from Virginia engaged in spirited
debate. Mr. Carlile desired that the State be admitted under the terms of the constitution
framed at Wheeling, the alternative being that the people of the State should have the new
terms submitted to them for approval. He believed that Mr. Willey's amendment was incomplete
as it stood, and that an amendment in conformity with the one presented by Mr. Wade was necessary,
providing, of course, that it was the sense of the Senate to admit the State only upon conditions.
He took issue with Mr. Willey's assertion that the passage of Mr. Wade's amendment would be
followed by a wholesale delivery of slaves to purchasers further South.[95] In the meanwhile
Mr. Wade's amendment was agreed to.

Mr. Carlile now began overtly his campaign of obstruction and opposition to the admission of
the State into the Union. He offered as an amendment to that of his colleague to be inserted
at the end of the sixteenth line, the following words: "After the said ordinance shall be submitted
to the vote of the people in the said State of West Virginia and be ratified by the vote of
the majority of the people thereof." The sinister motive underlying his proposal was clearly
perceived and ably met by Mr. Willey. He opposed the measure: first, because of the unusual
requirement of the majority vote of the people, and, second, because of the new convention
that would be required to assent to the fundamental proposition, and the consequent new election
and additional costs to the people. The constitutional convention, he argued, was still in
existence, was still a legal body, and that, therefore, there was no sufficient reason for
the reference of the matter beyond the jurisdiction thereof.[96]

Dissatisfied but not discouraged, Mr. Carlile explained away the objection to the words "majority
of the people." He maintained, however, that the changes contemplated would affect the fundamental
law and that they should, therefore, be ratified by the people subsequent to being assented
to by the Convention. It was, he argued, a departure from and in derogation of the customs
and ideas of Virginia to change the organic law without first submitting the proposed new law
to the people. Setting forth more clearly his position on the whole matter Carlile said: "Supposing--as
I suppose, I will see when I move this test amendment, which I shall, to this proposition--that
the Senate is unwilling to admit us without conditions, I shall vote against any bill, if it
is pressed, exacting conditions, for the purpose of going home to my people asking them to
assemble a Convention between this and the first Monday in December, and act upon the suggestion
which we have received here from the Senate, if they desire to do so and come here with a constitution
that will enable Congress, without such arbitrary stretch of power to admit us at once without
delay."[97]

It was evident that Carlile was committed to a proslavery program and that his plan, if adopted,
would result in the indefinite postponement of the admission of the new State. His colleague,
therefore, with an apparently sincere effort to meet the wishes of the Senate and to satisfy
the objections of Mr. Carlile, read the bill which was presented in the House by Mr. Brown,
of Virginia. At the same time he announced that that bill, if agreeable to the Committee and
to his colleagues, would be acceptable to him as a compromise.[98] This assented to, Mr. Willey
withdrew his original amendment and offered the Brown bill as a substitute for the whole bill,
striking out all after the word "whereas" in the preamble and substituting this measure in
lieu of the Committee's bill.[99] The bill as finally presented follows:

"Section 1.

"Section 2. It being represented to Congress that since the Convention of the 26th of November,
1861, that framed and proposed the Constitution, for the said State of West Virginia, the people
thereof have expressed a wish to change the seventh section of the eleventh article of the
said Constitution by striking out the same and inserting the following in its place, namely,
'The children of slaves born within the limits of this State after the fourth day of July,
1863, shall be free, and no slave shall be permitted to come into the State for permanent residence
therein.' Therefore be it enacted, that whenever the people of West Virginia shall, through
their said convention, and by a vote to be taken at an election to be held within the limits
of the State at such time as the Convention may provide, make and ratify the change aforesaid
and properly certify the same under the hand of the President of the Convention, it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States to issue the proclamation stating the fact and
thereupon this act shall take effect and be in force from and after sixty days from the date
of said proclamation."[100]

It will be observed that the terms of the amendment made no provision for the subsequent freedom
of those slaves in esse. It was the sense of the committee of the whole, expressed in its action
on Mr. Wade's amendment, that a specified class of slaves in esse should be given their freedom
upon their arrival at a designated age. In conformity with this view, Mr. Lane, of Kansas moved
to amend the second section by inserting after the word free the following: "And that all slaves
within the State who shall at the time aforesaid be under ten years of age shall become free
when they arrive at the age of twenty-one years, and all slaves over ten years and under twenty-one
years of age, shall become free when they arrive at the age of twenty-five years."[101] This
amendment was accepted.

After the passage of the above amendment, Mr. Carlile, persistent in his policy of opposing
admission, proposed to amend Mr. Willey's last proposition. His amendment was to the effect
that the proposed new State be admitted without conditions. In speaking thereupon, Mr. Willey
affirmed that this amendment conformed to his personal views, but that as a matter of good
faith and honor he was precluded from espousing its cause.[102] The amendment was rejected.

Following the report of the bill to the Senate and the concurrence of the latter in the compromise
amendment of Mr. Willey as amended by Mr. Lane, Mr. Sumner advised that he had proposed to
offer to the Senate his amendment lately rejected in Committee. Referring to this proposal,
Mr. Lane asserted his assurance that the insertion of the provision in question would cause
the bill to fail before the House of Representatives and to merit the disapproval of the people
of West Virginia. He urged, therefore, that it would be the better policy to vote for the bill
as already amended and to endure slavery in the State for another generation, if need be. Despite
the conformity of this view with those of a majority of his colleagues, Mr. Sumner, though
declining to offer the amendment, stated his irrevocable opposition to the admission of another
slave State, even though the term of slavery be for but twenty-one years. He considered it
his duty, therefore, to vote against the measure as it then stood.[103]

The engrossment of the bill for a third reading found its opponents still unweary in their
efforts to obstruct or defeat its passage. Senator Trumbull, of Illinois, summed up his opposition
to the bill in two objections, namely: (1) since all persons over twenty-one years of age were
thereby doomed to perpetual slavery, the new State would be in theory and in practice a slave
State; and (2) he failed to see the necessity for or wisdom in dividing any of the old States
until the situation could be seen as a whole. He let it be known, however, that this statement
should not be construed to commit him to the position of opposing the admission of a slave
State under all circumstances whatever. In conformity with his conviction, he moved that all
consideration of the bill be postponed until the first Monday of December next. The Senator
from Illinois was ably supported by Mr. Carlile, who, failing in his last attempt to amend
the bill to the effect that the State should come in without conditions, affirmed his opposition
to any proceedings whereby the organic law of a State is framed by Congress and asserted that
he would support the Trumbull motion at the risk of misconstruction.[104]

Those Senators who favored the immediate passage of the bill were not unprepared for the most
determined attacks of its opponents. Mr. Howard, of Michigan, requested of the Senators from
Virginia, whether the Wheeling Legislature had taken any action on the "Joint Resolution passed
by Congress suggesting that the so-called border slave States take some action in reference
to the final emancipation of their slaves." Replying thereto, Mr. Willey asserted that the
Legislature was entirely favorable to a program involving final emancipation. He took occasion,
moreover, to add that "his colleague, Mr. Carlile, was misrepresenting the attitude of the
legislature that sent him there in interposing the objection that was calculated to thwart
the whole movement."[105]

Agreeing with the remarks of Mr. Willey, Mr. Wade, while opposing the motion of Senator Trumbull,
explained that Mr. Carlile had penned all the bills and drawn them up; that he was the hardest
worker and the most cheerful of them all, that he was the most forceful among them in pressing
his views upon the Committee. "Whence," asked he, "came this change of heart? For indeed his
conversion was greater than that of St. Paul." "Now," said Mr. Wade, "is the time for West
Virginia to be admitted into the Union." "Let us not postpone the action for the next session,
but let us reject the motion of the gentleman from Illinois and pass the bill."[106]

Continuing the debate, Mr. Ten Eyck affirmed the legality and the expediency of admitting the
new State. His arguments were substantially as follows: (1) that the legal question, that is,
the right of the legislature to give assent to the division of the State, was settled when
the Senate accepted as members the two men appointed by the said legislature; (2) as a matter
of policy he urged that the people of Western Virginia should not be forced to run the risk
of having the whole State, because of the collapse of the rebellion, repeal the act of the
legislature and thereby continue a domination of tyranny over them. The vote was taken and
the motion to postpone was rejected.[107]

The final objection prior to the passage of the bill, came from Mr. Powell, of Kentucky. Asserting,
in substance, that since ten of the forty-eight counties to be included in West Virginia were
unrepresented in the Convention and in the Legislature, and since less than one-fourth of the
people gave their consent to the formation of a new State, he held that there was no constitutional
right to act. He was, therefore, unalterably opposed to the admission of the new State. Unswerved
from his position, by the assurances of Mr. Willey, that (1) the absence of ten thousand men
under arms, and (2) the foregone conclusion that separation would be effected jointly accounted
for the small number of nearly nineteen thousand votes, Mr. Powell called for the yeas and
nays. The motion was put and the bill to admit was passed.[108]

Even the passage of the bill did not cause Mr. Carlile's opposition to cease. Determined in
his efforts to make a final plea for the slave-holding interests, he introduced Senate Bill
No. 531[109] supplemental to the act for the admission of West Virginia into the Union and
for other purposes. This bill sought, of course, to make effective his plan that the whole
work of the Constitutional Convention be reenacted. The bill was reported with amendments and
adversely from the Judiciary Committee, whereupon Mr. Carlile sought to have it considered
in the Senate. This effort, like his previous ones, was wholly unsuccessful.[110]

While this battle was in progress in the Senate the House also was considering the question.
The debate in the Senate on the admission of the proposed new State of West Virginia into the
Union hinged largely upon the consideration of the question of slavery. Was the new State to
be admitted as a slave State, providing for gradual emancipation? Was it to be admitted on
a program of immediate emancipation, or was it to come in with no conditions relating to the
disposition of this all-absorbing matter? These were the questions to be determined. They were
not altogether the chief considerations in the House.

On the twenty-fifth day of June, 1862, Mr. Brown, of Virginia, by unanimous consent, introduced
before the House a bill for the "Admission of West Virginia into the Union and for other purposes."
After the first and second readings it was referred to the Committee on Territories.[111] On
the sixteenth of July the bill as passed by the Senate was read a first and second time. Mr.
Bingham demanded previous question on the passage of the bill; whereupon Mr. Segar, representing
a district in Eastern Virginia, objected to a third reading and moved that the bill be laid
on the table. On a call for the vote the motion was defeated. On the motion of Roscoe Conkling
the consideration of the bill was postponed until the second Tuesday in December, 1862.[112]

The bill came up again for consideration in the House at the time designated, December 9, 1862.
Mr. Conway, of Kansas, obtaining the floor through the courtesy of Mr. Bingham, remarked that
he had no objection to the erection of a new State in Western Virginia; that he understood
that the inhabitants were thoroughly loyal; that they were opposed to slavery; and that they
would make a powerful and prosperous State. Despite these considerations, he was not prepared
to adhere to the program of admission. He objected, therefore, that the application had not
come up in the proper constitutional form. The commonwealth was not organized into a territorial
form of government, and so, said he, no enabling act could be passed. The constitutional provision
that no State may be divided without the assent of the legislature thereof was not, in his
opinion, adhered to. He questioned the legitimacy of the so-called "Restored Government of
Virginia" after a part of the State had seceded from the Union.[113] It was his contention
that the failure of the State government caused the sovereignty of the State to accrue to the
Federal Government. Any application for admission into the Union, on the part of West Virginia,
should proceed on this theory.[114]

Replying to these arguments, Mr. Brown, of Virginia, claimed constitutional regularity of procedure
in forming the new State and in seeking to have it admitted into the Union. He referred to
the case of Kentucky as a precedent, attempting thereby to show the competency of Congress
to admit a State formed within the jurisdiction of another. He pointed out that the Senate,
the House, the Executive Department of the United States Government and a State Court in Ohio
had, all, by their several acts and relationships with the Wheeling Legislature recognized
it to be the legal legislature of Virginia. Discussing the original powers of the people, Mr.
Brown asserted "that the principle was laid down in the Declaration of Independence that the
legislative powers of the people cannot be annihilated; that when the functionaries to whom
they are entrusted become incapable of exercising them, they revert to the people, who have
the right to exercise them in their primitive and original capacity." "When, therefore, the
government of old Virginia capitulated to the Confederacy," said he, "the loyal people of Western
Virginia acted in accordance with the directing principle of the Declaration of Independence."[115]

Conforming to the opinion of Mr. Brown, Mr. Colfax urged the admission of the proposed new
State, "because in their constitution, the people provided for the ultimate extinction of slavery."[116]
Among other speakers urging the admission of the new State were Edwards, Blair, Stevens, and
Bingham. Edwards asserted that the two questions presented had to do with (1) the constitutional
power of Congress to admit the State and (2) the question of expediency. Blair, while urging
the admission of the new State, took occasion to inform Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky, that the
people of the proposed new State of West Virginia had bound themselves to pay a just proportion
of the public debt owed by the State of Virginia, prior to the passage of the Ordinance of
Secession. Thaddeus Stevens held that the act of the legislature of Virginia assenting to the
division of the State was invalid as such, but that West Virginia might be admitted under the
absolute power that the laws of war give to Congress under such circumstances. "The Union,"
he said, "can never be restored under the Constitution as it was," and with his consent, it
could never be restored with slavery to be protected by it. He was in favor of admitting West
Virginia because he "found in her constitution a provision which would make her a free state."[117]

Perhaps no man in the House opposed more vigorously the admission of the State under the bill
being considered than did Mr. Segar. According to his point of view, the people of the proposed
new State had made a pro-slavery constitution; they had retained their former slave status,
merely prohibiting the coming in for permanent residence of additional slaves and free Negroes.
The bill presented here, he argued, requires them to strike out the provision that they have
seen fit to make with reference to slavery; Congress has made for them a constitution of fast
emancipation, one of virtual anti-slavery variety. "This," said he, "is nothing less than a
flagrant departure from the doctrine that the States may of right manage their domestic affairs
and fashion their institutions as they will."[118] During the course of his remarks, he found
occasion to deny the constitutionality of the legislature, by whose authority he held his seat
in Congress.

Concluding the debate, Mr. Bingham, who had advocated the admission of the State throughout
the course of its consideration by the House, summed up in succinct form, first, the positions
taken by the preceding speakers; and second, citations and arguments to show the constitutionality
of the proceedings. Continuing, he urged the expediency of admission; he asserted that the
chief objection to admission on the part of most of the gentlemen opposed was that, thereby,
a new slave State would be admitted into the Union; and finally he trusted that the bill would
pass, because his confidence in the people of Western Virginia had convinced him that they
would not only ratify the provision for gradual emancipation, but would avail themselves of
the opportunity afforded by the President's proclamation to bring about the immediate or ultimate
emancipation of every slave within the State. On motion, the roll was called and the bill was
passed by a vote of 96 to 55.[119]

On the twenty-third day of December, President Lincoln requested the written opinion of the
members of his cabinet on the Act for the admission of West Virginia into the Union, first,
as[120] to its constitutionality and second, as to its expediency. Of the six members who replied,
Messrs. Seward, Chase and Stanton decided that the measure was both constitutional and expedient;
whereas Welles, Blair and Bates decided that it was neither constitutional nor expedient.[121]
In the meanwhile, Governor Pierpont of the Restored Government of Virginia sent to the President
a message urging upon him the absolute and complete necessity for his assent to the measure.[122]

The decision of the President was awaited with anxiety. Without underestimating the importance
attaching to the opinions of his advisors, it was evident that Mr. Lincoln's opinion was all-important.
Characteristic of the President, and despite the wealth of opinion and advice at his command,
he found his own reasons for concluding that the act was both constitutional and expedient.
Not the least important one among these reasons was the fact that "the admission of the new
State would turn just that much slave soil to free."[123]

After the signing of the bill by the President and in conformity with the requirements of the
amended constitution, the constitutional convention reassembled for the purpose of approving
the gradual emancipation amendment inserted by Congress. Completing its work in a session of
eight days, the Convention adjourned on the twentieth day of February. On the twenty-sixth
day of March the people adopted the amendment; 27,749 voted for ratification and 572 for rejection.
Certification of the election results was made to Governor Pierpont, who forthwith communicated
the fact to the President of the United States. On the twentieth day of April, President Lincoln
issued his proclamation relating to the admission of the State of West Virginia into the Union,
the same to take effect sixty days from date thereof. Accordingly, therefore, on the twentieth
day of June, 1863, the commonwealth of West Virginia formally entered into the Union as a State,
the first one to do so with a constitution providing for the gradual emancipation of any class
of slaves within the limits of its territory.[124]

                                             ALRUTHEUS A. TAYLOR.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 13.

[2] Ibid., 13.

[3] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 1776-1861, 1-3.

[4] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 30.

[5] Ibid., 30.

[6] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 1776-1861, 137.

[7] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 42.

[8] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 1776-1861, 137.

[9] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 1776-1861.

[10] Ibid., 169.

[11] Ibid., 140, 141.

[12] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 38.

[13] Ibid., 47.

[14] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 45.

[15] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 187.

[16] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 186.

[17] Ibid., 189.

[18] Ibid., 192.

[19] Ibid., 1776-1861, 192.

[20] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 200.

[21] Ibid., 201.

[22] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 202.

[23] Ibid., 202.

[24] Ibid., 244.

[25] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 245.

[26] Ibid., 1776-1861, 251.

[27] Ibid., 251-252.

[28] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 253.

[29] Ibid., 253.

[30] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 262.

[31] Ibid., 264.

[32] Ibid., 265.

[33] Ibid., 1776-1861, 266.

[34] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 266.

[35] Ibid., 267.

[36] Ibid., 268.

[37] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 62.

[38] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 1776-1861, 269.

[39] Ibid., 269.

[40] Ambler, Sectionalism in Virginia, 311.

[41] Hall, The Rending of Va., 60.

[42] Ibid., 61.

[43] Ambler, Sectionalism in Va., 1776-1861, 301.

[44] Hall, The Rending of Va., 60.

[45] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 8.

[46] Ibid., 10.

[47] Ibid., 14.

[48] Ibid., 19.

[49] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 63.

[50] Ibid., 41.

[51] Ibid., 45.

[52] Ibid., 48.

[53] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 63.

[54] Ibid., 64.

[55] Ibid., 83.

[56] Ibid., 108.

[57] Ibid., 86.

[58] Ibid., 92.

[59] Ibid., 139.

[60] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 284.

[61] Ibid., 318.

[62] Ibid., 318.

[63] Hall, The Rending of Va., 396.

[64] Ibid., 396.

[65] Hall, The Rending of Va., 416.

[66] Ibid., 416.

[67] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 417.

[68] Ibid., 418.

[69] Hall, The Rending of Va., 418.

[70] Ibid., 419.

[71] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 421.

[72] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 421-429.

[73] Ibid., 439.

[74] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 322.

[75] Ibid., 323.

[76] Hall, Rending of Va., p. 440.

[77] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 440-456.

[78] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 325.

[79] Congressional Globe, Pt. 3, 2nd Session, 37th Congress, 1861-62, 2864.

[80] Ibid., Pt. 4 and App. 2nd Session, 37th Congress, 1861-62, 2941.

[81] Ibid., Pt. 4 and App. 37th Cong., 2nd Session, 1861-62, 2941.

[82] Congressional Globe, 2942.

[83] Ibid., 3034.

[84] Ibid., 3034.

[85] Congressional Globe, 3035.

[86] Ibid., 3036.

[88] Congressional Globe, 3038.

[89] Ibid., 3134-3135.

[90] Ibid., 3308.

[91] Ibid., 3308.

[92] Ibid., 3308.

[94] Ibid., 3309.

[95] Congressional Globe, 3309.

[96] Ibid., 3310.

[97] Congressional Globe, 3311.

[98] Ibid., Pt. 4 and App. 2nd Sess., 37th Cong., 1861-62, 3314.

[99] Ibid., 3315.

[100] Congressional Globe, 3316.

[101] Congressional Globe, 3316.

[102] Ibid., 3316.

[103] Ibid., 3316.

[105] Ibid., 3317-3320.

[106] Congressional Globe, 3317-3320.

[107] Ibid., 3320.

[108] Ibid., 3320.

[109] Congressional Globe, Pt. 2, 3rd Session, 37th Cong., 1862-63, 952.

[110] Ibid., 1302.

[112] Congressional Globe, 3397.

[113] Ibid., Pt. 1, 3rd Session, 37th Cong., 37.

[114] Hall, The Rending of Va., 474.

[115] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 475.

[116] Cong. Globe, Pt. 1, 3rd Session, 37th Congress, 43.

[117] Congressional Globe, 47-57.

[118] Ibid., 54.

[119] Congressional Globe, Pt. 1, 3rd Session, 37th Cong., 1862-63, 58.

[120] Hall, The Rending of Virginia, 485.

[121] Ibid., 490-494.

[122] Ibid., 488.

[123] Ibid., 496.

[124] Lewis, How W. Va. Was Made, 330-334.

CANADIAN NEGROES AND THE JOHN BROWN RAID

Canada and Canadians were intimately connected with the most dramatic incident in the slavery
struggle prior to the opening of the Civil War, the attack of John Brown and his men on the
federal arsenal at Harper's Ferry, Virginia, on the night of Sunday, October 16, 1859. The
blow that Brown struck at slavery in this attack had been planned on broad lines in Canada
more than a year before at a convention held in Chatham, Ontario, May 8-10, 1858. In calling
this convention in Canada, Brown doubtless had two objects in view: to escape observation and
to interest the Canadian Negroes in his plans for freeing their enslaved race on a scale never
before dreamed of and in a manner altogether new. It was Brown's idea to gather a band of determined
and resourceful men, to plant them somewhere in the Appalachian mountains near slave territory
and from their mountain fastness to run off the slaves, ever extending the area of operations
and eventually settling the Negroes in the territory that they had long tilled for others.
He believed that operations of this kind would soon demoralize slavery in the South and he
counted upon getting enough help from Canada to give the initial impetus.

What went on at Chatham in May, 1858, is fairly definitely known. Brown came to Chatham on
April 30 and sent out invitations to what he termed "a quiet convention ... of true friends
of freedom," requesting attendance on May 10. The sessions were held on May 8th and 10th, Saturday
and Monday, and were attended by twelve white men and thirty-three Negroes. William C. Munroe,
a colored preacher, acted as chairman. Brown himself made the opening and principal speech
of the convention, outlining plans for carrying on a guerilla warfare against the whites, which
would free the slaves, who might afterwards be settled in the more mountainous districts. He
expected that many of the free Negroes in the Northern States would flock to his standard,
that slaves in the South would do the same, and that some of the free Negroes in Canada would
also accompany him.

The main business before the convention was the adoption of a constitution for the government
of Brown's black followers in the carrying out of his weird plan of forcible emancipation.
Copies of the constitution were printed after the close of the Chatham gathering and furnished
evidence against Brown and his companions when their plans came to ground and they were tried
in the courts of Virginia. Brown himself was elected commander-in-chief, J. H. Kagi was named
secretary of war, George B. Gill, secretary of the treasury, Owen Brown, one of his sons, treasurer,
Richard Realf, secretary of state, and Alfred M. Ellsworth and Osborn Anderson, colored, were
named members of Congress.

It was more than a year before Brown could proceed to the execution of his plan. Delays of
various kinds had upset his original plans, but early in June, 1859, he went to Harper's Ferry
with three companions and rented a farm near that town. Others joined them at intervals until
at the time of their raid he had eighteen followers, four of whom were Negroes. The story of
the attack and its failure need not be told here. It is sufficient to say that when the fighting
ended on Tuesday morning, October 18, John Brown himself was wounded and a prisoner; ten of
his party, including two of his sons, were dead, and the others were fugitives from justice.
Brown was given a preliminary examination on October 25th and on the following day was brought
to trial at Charlestown. Public sentiment in Virginia undoubtedly called for a speedy trial,
but there was evidence of panicky feeling in the speed with which John Brown was rushed to
punishment. On Monday, October 31, the jury, after 45 minutes' deliberation, returned a verdict
of guilty of treason, conspiracy with slaves to rebel and murder in the first degree. On November
2nd, sentence was pronounced, that Brown should be hanged on December 2nd. That was the unanimous
sentiment of Virginia. Although the Chatham convention had been secret there were some Canadians
who knew that Brown was meditating a bold stroke and could see at once the connection between
Chatham and Harper's Ferry. The raid was reported in detail in the Canadian press and widely
commented upon editorially. In a leading article extending over more than one column of its
issue of November 4, 1859, The Globe, of Toronto, points out that the execution of Brown will
but serve to make him remembered as "a brave man who perilled property, family, life itself,
for an alien race." His death, continued the editor, would make the raid valueless as political
capital for the South, which might expect other Browns to arise. References in this article
to the Chatham convention indicate that George Brown, editor of The Globe, knew what had been
going on in Canada in May, 1858. Three weeks later, The Globe, with fine discernment, declared
that if the tension between north and south continued, civil war would be inevitable and "no
force that the south can raise can hold the slaves if the north wills that they be free."[3]
On the day of Brown's execution The Globe said: "His death will aid in awakening the north
to that earnest spirit which can alone bring the south to understand its true position," and
added that it was a "rare sight to witness the ascent of this fine spirit out of the money-hunting,
cotton-worshipping American world."[4] Once again, with insight into American affairs it predicted
that "if a Republican president is elected next year, nothing short of a dissolution of the
union will satisfy them" (the cotton States).

The special interest taken by The Globe in American affairs and its sane comment on the developments
in the slavery struggle were due to George Brown's understanding of the situation, resulting
from his residence for a time under the stars and stripes before coming to Canada. The feeling
of the public in Toronto over the execution of John Brown was shown by the large memorial service
held in St. Lawrence Hall on Dec. 11, 1859, at which the chief speaker was Rev. Thomas M. Kinnaird,
who had himself attended the Chatham convention.[5] In his address Mr. Kinnaird referred to
a talk he had had with Brown, in which the latter said that he intended to do something definite
for the liberation of the slaves or perish in the attempt. The collection that was taken up
at this meeting was forwarded to Mrs. Brown. At Montreal a great mass meeting was held in St.
Bonaventure Hall, attended by over one thousand people, at which resolutions of sympathy were
passed. Among those on the platform at this meeting were L. H. Holton, afterwards a member
of the Brown-Dorion and Macdonald-Dorion administrations, and John Dougall, founder of The
Montreal Witness. At Chatham and other places in the western part of the province similar meetings
were held.

The slave-holding States were by no means blind to the amount of support and encouragement
that was coming from Canada for the abolitionists.[6] They were quite aware that Canada itself
had an active abolitionist group. They probably had heard of the Chatham convention; they knew
of it, at least, as soon as the raid was over. In his message to the legislature of Virginia
immediately after the Harper's Ferry incident Governor Wise made direct reference to the anti-slavery
activity in Canada. "This was no result of ordinary crimes," he declared. "... It was an extraordinary
and actual invasion, by a sectional organization, specially upon slaveholders and upon their
property in negro slaves.... A provisional government was attempted in a British province,
by our own countrymen, united to us in the faith of confederacy, combined with Canadians, to
invade the slave-holding states ... for the purpose of stirring up universal insurrection of
slaves throughout the whole south."[7]

Speaking further of what he conceived to be the spirit of the North he said: "It has organized
in Canada and traversed and corresponded thence to New Orleans and from Boston to Iowa. It
has established spies everywhere, and has secret agents in the heart of every slave state,
and has secret associations and 'underground railroads' in every free state."[8]

Speaking on December 22, 1859, to a gathering of medical students who had left Philadelphia,
Governor Wise is quoted as saying: "With God's help we will drive all the disunionists together
back into Canada. Let the compact of fanaticism and intolerance be confined to British soil."[9]
The New York Herald quoted Governor Wise as calling upon the President to notify the British
Government that Canada should no longer be allowed, by affording an asylum to fugitive slaves,
to foster disunion and dissension in the United States. Wise even seems to have had the idea
that the President might be bullied into provoking trouble with Great Britain over this question.
"The war shall be carried into Canada," he said in one of his outbursts.[10]

Sympathy for the South was shown in the comment of a part of the Tory press in Canada, The
Leader declaring that Brown's attack on Harper's Ferry was an "insane raid" and predicting
that the South would sacrifice the union before submitting to such spoliation.[11] The viewpoint
of The Leader and its readers may be further illustrated by its declaration that the election
campaign of 1860 was dominated by a "small section of ultra-abolitionists who make anti-slavery
the beginning, middle and end of their creed." As for Lincoln he was characterized as "a mediocre
man and a fourth-rate lawyer,"[12] but then some of the prominent American newspapers made
quite as mistaken an estimate of Lincoln at that time.

The collapse of John Brown's great adventure at Harper's Ferry furnished complete proof to
the South of Canada's relation to that event. The seizure of his papers and all that they told,
the evidence at the trial at Charlestown and the evidence secured by the Senatorial Committee
which investigated the affair, all confirmed the suspicion that in the British provinces to
the north there was extensive plotting against the slavery system.

In the actual events at Harper's Ferry the assistance given by Canada was small. Of the men
who marched out with Brown on that fateful October night only one could in any way be described
as a Canadian. This was Osborn Perry Anderson, a Negro born free in Pennsylvania. He was working
as a printer in Chatham at the time of the convention and threw in his lot with Brown. He was
one of those who escaped at Harper's Ferry. He later wrote an account of the affair, served
during the latter part of the Civil War in the northern army and died at Washington in 1871.
He is described by Hinton as "well educated, a man of natural dignity, modest, simple in character
and manners."[15]

There naturally arises the question, why was the aid given John Brown by the Canadian Negroes
so meagre? That Brown had counted on considerable help in his enterprise from the men who joined
with him in drafting the "provisional constitution" is certain. John Edwin Cook, one of Brown's
close associates, declared in his confession made after Harper's Ferry, that "men and money
had both been promised from Chatham and other parts of Canada."[16] Yet, apart from Anderson,
a Negro, only one other Canadian of either color seems to have had any share in the raid. Dr.
Alexander Milton Ross went to Richmond, Virginia, before the blow was struck, as he had promised
Brown he would do, and was there when word came of its unhappy ending. Brown evidently counted
on Ross being able to keep him in touch with developments at the capital of Virginia.

Chatham had been chosen as the place of meeting with special reference to the effect it might
have on the large Negro population resident in the immediate vicinity. There were more Negroes
within fifty miles of Chatham than in any other section of Canadian territory and among them
were men of intelligence, education and daring, some of them experienced in slave raiding.
Brown was justified in expecting help from them. There is also evidence that among the Negroes
themselves there existed a secret organization, known under various names, having as its object
to assist fugitives and resist their masters. Help from this organization was also expected.[17]
Hinton says that Brown "never expected any more aid from them than that which would give a
good impetus."[18] John Brown himself is quoted by Realf, one of his associates, as saying
that he expected aid from the Negroes generally, both in Canada and the United States,[19]
but it must be remembered that his plans called for quality rather than quantity of assistance.
A few daring men, planted in the mountains of Virginia, would have accomplished his initial
purpose better than a thousand.

The real reason why the Canadian Negroes failed to respond in the summer of 1860 when Brown's
men were gathering near the boundary line of slavery seems to be that too great a delay followed
after the Chatham convention. The convention was held on May 8 and 10, 1858; but Brown did
not attack Harper's Ferry until the night of October 16, 1859, nearly a year and a half later.
The zeal for action that manifested itself in May, 1858, had cooled off by October, 1859, the
magnetic influence of Brown himself had been withdrawn, and the Negroes had entered into new
engagements. Frank B. Sanborn says he understood from Brown that he hoped to strike about the
middle of May of 1858, that is about a week after the convention or as soon as his forces could
gather at the required point.[20] The delay was caused by the partial exposure of Brown's plans
to Senator Henry Wilson by Hugh Forbes, who had been close to Brown. Panic seized Brown's chief
white supporters in New England, the men who financed his various operations, and they decided
that the plans must be changed. Brown was much discouraged by their decision, but being dependent
upon them for support in his work he submitted and went west to Kansas. Among his exploits
there was the running off of more than a dozen slaves whom he landed safely at Windsor, Canada.

There was some effort made in the early summer of 1859 to enlist the support of the Canadian
Negroes,[21] the mission being in charge of John Brown, Jr., who was assisted by Rev. J. W.
Loguen, a well-known Negro preacher and anti-slavery worker. Together they visited Hamilton,
St. Catharines, Chatham, London, Buxton and Windsor, helping also to organize branches of the
League of Liberty among the Negroes. The letters of John Brown, Jr., show that there was little
enthusiasm for the cause, which, indeed, could only have been presented in an indefinite way.
There was more interest at Chatham than elsewhere, as might be expected, but even there it
was not sufficiently substantial to bring the men that were needed. Against this rather dismal
picture should be placed some evidence that there were a few Canadians on the way South when
the end came.[22]

                                             FRED LANDON.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Longfellow, Life of Longfellow, vol. II, p. 347.

[2] Thoreau, A Plea for Capt. John Brown, read at Concord, October 30, 1859.

[3] Toronto Weekly Globe, Nov. 25, 1859.

[4] Ibid., Dec. 9, 1859, and Dec. 16, 1859.

[5] Toronto Weekly Globe, Dec. 12, 1859.

[6] "There is no country in the world so much hated by slaveholders as Canada," Ward, Autobiography
of a Fugitive Negro, London, 1855, p. 158.

[7] Journal of the Senate of Virginia, 1859, see pp. 9-25.

[8] The Toronto Weekly Globe of Dec. 6, 1859, reported Governor Wise as saying: "One most irritating
feature of this predatory war is that it has its seat in the British provinces which furnish
asylum for our fugitives and send them and their hired outlaws upon us from depots and rendezvous
in the bordering states."

[9] Toronto Weekly Globe, Dec. 28, 1859.

[10] Toronto Weekly Globe, Dec. 28, 1859.

[11] Ibid., Dec. 23, 1859.

[12] Ibid., July 20, 1860.

[13] Harper's Ferry Invasion, Report of Senatorial Committee, pp. 2 and 7.

[14] Harper's Ferry Invasion, Report of Senatorial Committee, p. 99.

[15] Hinton, John Brown and His Men, pp. 504-507.

[16] Ibid., appendix, p. 704. See also report of Senatorial Committee, p. 97.

[17] Hinton, John Brown and His Men, pp. 171-172.

[18] Ibid., p. 175.

[19] Report of Senatorial Committee, p. 97.

[20] Sanborn, Life and Letters of John Brown, pp. 457-8.

[21] Sanborn, Life and Letters of John Brown, pp. 536-538, 547.

[22] Hinton, John Brown and His Men, pp. 261-263.

THE NEGRO AND THE SPANISH PIONEER IN THE NEW WORLD

Negro slaves probably made their first appearance in the New World in 1502. Those who came
in the beginning were Christians and personal servants of masters who had acquired them in
Spain, but soon afterwards, thanks to the influence of the religious order of Predicatores
and of the more famous Las Casas, they began to be introduced directly from Africa, in order
that the sufferings of the Indians who were dying out under the Spanish system of forced labor
might be alleviated.[1] By the close of the second decade of the sixteenth century no inconsiderable
number had been brought over, and a perusal of the early accounts of the exploits of the Conquistadores
will reveal the fact that the Negro participated in the exploration and occupation of nearly
every important region from New Mexico to Chile. As personal attendants of the Spanish Pioneers,
as burden-bearers and drudges connected with exploration and the founding of colonies, they
played an indispensable though inconspicuous rôle in one of the greatest achievements which
history records. Such accounts of their service as have been preserved are, for the most part,
accidental: only when he performed an act of unusual heroism or connected himself with a strange
or humorous occurrence was the Negro's name placed alongside of that of his Spanish master
where it is destined to remain for all time.

When Balboa set out from Darién on the tour of exploration which resulted in the discovery
of the South Sea, at least one Negro, Nufio de Olano, was numbered in his party. Three years
later, when the timbers for the four boats with which he intended to explore the Pacific had
been prepared, thirty Negroes were among those who carried them piece by piece over mountain
and jungle from Acla to San Miguel. Moreover, when Balboa's successor constructed the first
highway from ocean to ocean he made use of Negro labor along with that of the Indian.[2]

Hernán Cortés carried with him from Cuba not only Indian servants but Negro slaves who helped
to drag along the artillery which he used to strike mortal terror into the Indians of Mexico.
There has been preserved a list of those who set out on this famous expedition, and among the
names are those of two Negroes, one of whom Saco claims to have been the first to sow and reap
small grain in Mexico. Moreover, two Negroes were among the company sent out by Velásquez in
1520 to punish Cortés for his insubordination. One of these has the unenviable distinction
of having introduced smallpox among the Mexican Indians. The other, who seems to have observed
the fight between the men of the agent of Velásquez (Narváez) from the safe and comfortable
distance of a neighboring tree, has, because of some witty and flattering remarks which he
made to Cortés, received the honor of a paragraph in the Decades of Herrera.[3]

It is not definitely known whether Pedro de Alvarado, one of the bravest and most gallant lieutenants
of Cortés, carried Negroes with him into Guatemala in 1523, but it is certain that eleven years
later, when his ambition and love of gain led him to fit out that ill-fated expedition to Quito,
he saw fit to include in the company two hundred black slaves, most of whom perished while
making their way through the blinding snows of the Andes.[4]

It is certain, moreover, that several Negroes were along with the Conquistadores of Perú and
Chile. The contract of Francisco Pizarro permitted him to introduce fifty Negroes into Perú
free of duty; and even before this, Negroes had accompanied those who had spied out the land.
In 1525, when Diego de Almagro effected a landing near the port of Quemado, on the west coast
of South America, and attempted to penetrate the adjacent country, he encountered rather severe
opposition from the Indians of the section. During the resulting skirmish one of his eyes was
crushed by a dart and he was saved from captivity and death only by the valiant succor of his
Negro slave. A year later, the debarkation of a Spaniard and his slave at Tumbez resulted in
an amusing occurrence which once more gave the Negro a few brief sentences in the Decades.
Astonished at the color of his face, the natives of the region had him wash time after time
in order to see if the black would disappear; and the Negro, true to his good nature and love
of a joke, complied willingly while he grinned so as to display his pearly white teeth.[5]

Several Negroes assisted the Yanaconas Indians in carrying the baggage of Diego de Almagro
and Rodrigo Orgoñez during their perilous journey along the frozen Andes from Cuzco to Chile;
and many of them perished on the way.[6] Moreover, upon at least one occasion the forces of
the great conqueror of Chile, Pedro Valdivia himself, would probably have been destroyed, had
it not been for the cool-headed alertness of Captain Gonzalo de los Rios and a Negro who managed
to procure the saddle-horses of the Spaniards as soon as they saw a band of Indians dart from
their hiding places.[7]

Numerous African slaves were along with the Spanish pioneers in Venezuela. Ortal, Sedeño, and
Heredia each had permission to introduce one hundred Negroes to build fortresses and search
for mines; and in 1537, when the licentiate Vadillo came to Cartagena to hold the residencia
of Heredia, he brought down a large number who later accompanied him on the luckless excursions
which he undertook apparently in the hope of finding the mines of Perú.[8]

But of all the members of the colored race who accompanied the Spaniards upon their explorations
in the New World, it may be doubted whether any played so conspicuous a part as did Estevánico,
or Estévan, an Arabian black from Azamor, in Morocco, and the slave of Andrés Dorantes de Carrança.
He was a member and one of the survivors of the ill-fated expedition of Pánfilo de Narváez
which went to pieces somewhere on the southern coast of the United States, (1528). For six
years he was a captive and slave among the Indians of Texas where, in company with others of
the expedition who had escaped with their lives, he effected miraculous cures. He was one of
the three companions of Cabeza de Vaca on his historic journey across the continent from the
Gulf of Mexico to Culiacán. From Culiacán he accompanied De Vaca and his companions to Mexico
City, where he was honored by being made the slave of the viceroy, Antonio de Mendoza.

Surely these were rare and noteworthy experiences for a member of the black race, but still
greater things awaited Estévan. He was destined ere he met his tragic fate to accompany the
expedition which resulted in the discovery of New Mexico and Arizona. The party which, besides
the Negro, consisted of three Spaniards--Fray Marcos de Niza, a lay brother, and Fray Onorato--and
several Pima Indians, set out from Culiacán on March 7, 1539. They were in search of the famed
Seven Cities.

After proceeding northward several days, Fray Marcos decided to rest while he dispatched the
Negro to reconnoiter. He directed Estévan to advance to the north several leagues, and in case
he discovered indications of a rich and populous country, to return in person or await his
coming, sending back, by some of the Pimas who were to accompany him, a cross the size of which
should be in proportion to the importance of the information gained. Four days passed, and
then the messengers of Estévan returned bearing a cross "as high as a man" and the news that
the Negro had discovered "the greatest thing in the world." Fray Marcos hastened to follow
in the footsteps of Estévan hoping to overtake him soon, but his efforts were vain. The dusky
adventurer could not resist the temptation to proceed and win for himself the honor of conquering
the rich country.

This country concerning which such glowing reports had reached Estévan was none other than
the land of the Pueblo Indians. His procedure after separating from Fray Marcos is thus narrated
by a contemporary, though not an eyewitness:

"After Estevan had left the friars, he thought he could get all the reputation and honor himself,
and that if he should discover these settlements with such famous high houses, alone, he would
be considered bold and courageous. So he proceeded with the people who had followed him, and
attempted to cross the wilderness which lies between the country he had passed through and
Cibola, ... [He] reached Cibola loaded with the large quantity of turquoises they [the Indians
along the route] had given him and some beautiful women whom the Indians who followed him and
carried his things were taking with them and had given him. These had followed him from all
the settlements he had passed, believing that under his protection they could traverse the
whole world without any danger. But as the people in this country were more intelligent than
those who followed Estevan, they lodged him in a little hut they had outside their village,
and the older men and governors heard his story and took steps to find out the reason he had
come to that country. The account which the Negro gave them of two white men who were following
him, sent by a great lord, who knew about the things in the sky, and how these were coming
to instruct them in divine matters, made them think that he must be a spy or a guide from some
nations who wished to come and conquer them, because it seemed to them unreasonable to say
that the people were white in the country from which he came and that he was sent by them,
he being black. Besides these other reasons, they thought it was hard of him to ask them for
turquoises and women, and so they decided to kill him. They did this, but they did not kill
any of those who went with him...."[9]

From this and other contemporary sources, Lowery[10] has constructed a more complete and lively
picture of Estévan's last days. Lowery says that "he travelled with savage magnificence, gaily
dressed with bells and feathers fastened about his arms and legs. He carried with him a gourd
decorated with bells and two feathers, one white and the other red. This gourd he sent before
him by messengers as a symbol of authority and to command obedience, as he had seen successfully
done in the western part of Texas, when in company with Cabeza de Vaca.... As soon as they
had delivered the gourd to the chief [of the pueblo] and he had observed the bells he became
very angry," and ordered Estévan and his party to depart at once. But the Negro was persistent.
He and his retinue lodged just outside the walls of the Pueblo of Hawaikuh. Early the next
morning they were attacked by a large band of warriors from the Pueblo and Estévan was killed
while attempting to make his escape.

There has been preserved among the legends of the Zuñi Pueblos of New Mexico one which apparently
dates back to the coming of Estévan, the Black Mexican from the south. The scene of his death
is placed at Kiakima, and the single Black Mexican has been magnified into many, but the legend
is nevertheless interesting and significant.

"It is to be believed that a long time ago, when roofs lay over the walls of Kya-ki-me, when
smoke hung over the housetops, and the ladder rounds were still unbroken in Kya-ki-me, then
the Black Mexicans came from their abodes in Everlasting Summerland. One day, unexpectedly,
out of Hemlock Cañon they came, and descended to Kya-ki-me. But when they said they would enter
the covered way, it seems that our ancients looked not gently at them; for with these Black
Mexicans came many Indians of So-no-li, as they call it now, ... who were enemies of our ancients.
Therefore, these our ancients, being always bad-tempered, and quick to anger, made fools of
themselves after their fashion, rushing into their town and out of their town, shouting, skipping
and shooting with their sling-stones and arrows and tossing their war-clubs. Then the Indians
of So-no-li set up a great howl, and thus they and our ancients did much ill to one another.
Then and thus was killed by our ancients, right where the stone stands down by the arroyo of
Kya-ki-me, one of the Black Mexicans, a large man, with chilli lips [i.e., lips swollen from
eating chilli peppers], and some of the Indians they killed, catching others. Then the rest
ran away, chased by our grandfathers, and went back toward their country in the Land of Everlasting
Summer...."[11]

                                             J. FRED RIPPY.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] José Antonio Saco, Historia de la Esclavitud ... (Barcelona, 1879), IV, 57 ff.

[2] Saco, op. cit., IV, 74, 75, 178; Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo, Historia General ... tom.
3, lib. 29, cap. 3.

[3] Dec. 2, lib. 10, cap. 4; Bernal Diaz del Castillo, Conquista de Nueva-Espana, cap. 124.

[4] Herrera, dec. 5, lib. 5, cap. 7-9.

[5] Dec. 3, lib. 10, cap. 5.

[6] Herrera, op. cit., dec. 5, lib. 10, cap. 1, 2, y 3.

[7] Saco, op. cit. IV, 166.

[8] Ibid., IV, 170.

[9] Pedro de Casteñeda, "Account of the Expedition to Cibola which took place in the year 1540
...," translated in Spanish Explorers in the Southern United States (J. F. Jameson, ed.), pp.
289-290.

[10] Spanish Settlements in the United States, 1513-1561, pp. 278-280.

[11] Quoted in Lowery, op. cit., pp. 281-282.

THE ECONOMIC CONDITION OF THE NEGROES OF NEW YORK PRIOR TO 1861

The institution of slavery existed in the State of New York until 1827. The number of slaves
had increased from 6,000 slaves in 1700 to 21,000 in 1790.[1] Moved by the struggle for the
rights of man, the legislature of New York passed in 1799 an act of emancipation, providing
that all children born of slave parents after July 4 ensuing should be free and subject to
apprenticeship in the case of males until the age of 28, and of the females until the age of
25, while the exportation of slaves was forbidden. By the process of emancipation all slaves
were liberated in 1827. Thenceforth, birth on the soil of New York was a guaranty of freedom
and slaves from other States fled to New York as an asylum.[2] As a result of these efforts
at gradual emancipation, there were more than 10,000 free Negroes in New York City in 1800.

We are to inquire here as to exactly what was the economic condition of these Negroes. What
of their wealth, their means and methods of living well and wisely? With gradual emancipation
and the cessation of the sale of slaves the Negroes became economically unimportant to the
whites.[3] They were employed as servants, laborers, sailors and mechanics.[4] It was reported
to the American Convention of Abolition Societies in 1797, however, "that a degree of decorum
and industry prevailed among them much to their honor and advantage." This report further said
that "Many in the town and country were freeholders, several worth from $300 to $1,300. Various
associations among the free blacks for mutual support, benefit and improvement had been established.
One of these had a lot for a burying ground and the site of a church worth fifteen hundred
dollars. All were in a state of progressive improvement."[6] Still another part of the report
made by these delegates stated that "on the whole they exhibited an example of successful industry
highly honorable to themselves, gratifying to their parents, encouraging to patrons and consoling
to humanity."[7] Again, in 1803, the New York delegates reported that the "increase of the
number of freeholders among the free blacks is an evidence of the progress of industry, sobriety,
and economy, and strengthens the hope that they will gradually emerge from their degraded condition
to usefulness and respectability."[8]

Further evidence of the economic improvement of free Negroes during this period is evidenced
by a significant appeal made by the members of the American Convention of Abolition Societies
to the Free Negroes of New York in 1805. In 1818 the New York Mission Society informed the
American Convention of Abolition Societies that the former had devised a plan of extending
their care to certain children of color who had completed their course of instruction in the
New York African Free Schools "in putting them at some useful trade or employment." These friends
of the race in New York said that it had long been a regret that Negro children "educated at
their schools had been suffered after leaving it to waste their time in idleness, thereby incurring
those vicious habits which were calculated to render their previous education worse than useless."
To remedy this evil they appointed an Indenturing Committee, whose duty was to provide places
for these children and put them at a trade or some other employment when they had completed
their education. The Committee took special care that the persons with whom children might
be placed should be those of good character and while on the one hand they insisted that the
children demean themselves with sobriety they extended their guardian care to them so that
they might not "become subjects of oppression and tyranny." This Indenturing Committee in reaching
its decision as to the sort of occupations to which the children could be apprenticed expressed
a decided preference for agricultural pursuits, being persuaded that an occupation of this
nature was far more conducive to the moral improvement of these Negroes than the pursuits of
the city under the most favorable circumstances. This plan upon being presented to the parents
and guardians of these children was favorably received, but it does not appear that a large
number of them thereafter participated in agriculture.[11]

The activity of the girls who had received instruction in household economics in free schools
showed progress in another direction. They formed a society under the name of the African Dorcas
Association for the purpose of procuring and making garments for the destitute. The boys, too,
contributed their share to this progress, taking up such trades as sail makers, tire-workers,
tailors, carpenters and blacksmiths.

Such reports[12] represent the condition of the free Negroes of New York before slavery was
completely abolished. This change in the status of the Negroes then, and the evolving industrial
system effected a change in the economic condition of the Negro throughout the city.[13]

It must be remembered in this connection, however, that these Negroes experienced difficulties
on account of their color either in obtaining a thorough knowledge of the trades or, after
they had obtained it, in finding employment in the best shops. White and black laborers at
first worked together in the same room and at the same machine. But soon prejudice developed.
It was made more intense by the immigration into this country of a large number of poor Germans
and Irish, who came to our shores because of the disturbed conditions of Europe. Their superior
training and experience enabled them to get positions in most of the trades. Most northern
men, moreover, still objected to granting Negroes economic equality. When the supply of labor
exceeded the demand, the free Negroes, unable to compete with these foreigners, were driven
not only from the respectable positions, but also from the menial pursuits. Measures to restrict
to the whites employment in higher pursuits were proposed and where they were not actually
made laws, public opinion, to that effect, accomplished practically the same result. This reversal
of the position of labor, however, did not take place without a struggle, for there soon arose
ill-feeling which culminated in the riots between 1830 and 1840.[14]

In spite of this condition, Arthur Tappan, Gerrit Smith and William Lloyd Garrison reported
to the Second American Convention for the Improvement of the Free People of Color that "by
perseverance, the youth of color could succeed in procuring profitable situations.[15] To these
benefactors, however, it was soon evident that Negroes had to be trained for the competition
with white laborers or be doomed to follow menial employment. In accordance with this Gerrit
Smith established in 1834 a school in Peterboro, for the purpose of training Negro youths under
the manual labor system.[16] With such training, he believed, free Negroes would gain a livelihood,
send their children to school, and gradually accumulate money. He hoped that many of them would
make progress to the extent of possessing property valued at $250, which amount would enable
citizens of color[17] to vote in the State of New York.

Hoping to put an end to economic poverty among these Negroes, Gerrit Smith devised a scheme
for the distribution of 3,000 parcels of land of 40 or 60 acres each among the unfortunate
blacks then handicapped in this untoward situation in New York City. On account of the intractability
of the soil, however, the harshness of the climate, and, in a great measure, the inefficiency
of the settlers, the enterprise was a failure and offered no relief to the economic condition
of the Negroes in this city.

It will be interesting to note the observations of a promoter of colonization on the condition
of Negroes in New York City at this time. While his statements must be taken with some reservation
they, nevertheless, contain a truth which must be taken into account. Hoping to induce Negroes
to accept colonization in Africa, he endeavored to show that they could not finally succeed
in the struggle in competition with the white laborers and would be crowded out of the higher
pursuits of labor. He referred to the fact that a few years prior to 1846 there was a vast
body of colored laborers in New York but that at that time they could not be seen. The writer
inquired as to "who may find a dray or a cart or a hack driven by a colored man?" "Where are
the vast majority of colored people in the city?" "None," said he, "can deny that they are
sunken much lower than they were a few years ago and are compelled to pursue none but the meanest
avocations."

The gentleman making these observations tried to emphasize this striking contrast by calling
attention to the fact that New York was a place that had a great deal of compassion for the
slave while it was neglecting to take into account the awful condition of the free Negroes,
in spite of the fact that the process of their depression had been going on at the same time
that the abolitionists in New York were working for the emancipation of the slave. Although
these friends of the Negroes and the Negroes themselves had during these years been boldly
asserting their rights and demanding to be elevated, they had been losing ground, sinking into
meaner occupations and less lucrative employments. He believed that the day was not far when
every desirable business in the city would be entirely monopolized by the whites because of
the rapid influx of foreigners who had to labor or serve and knew how to toil to advantage,
to the extent that they could make their labor more valuable than that of the people of color.[18]

In things economic, however, the free Negroes of New York made considerable improvement after
1845; a decided improvement in this respect was noted by 1851. So evident was this progress
that the colonizationists who had repeatedly referred to the poverty of the Negroes and the
prejudice against them in the laboring world as a reason why they should migrate to Africa,
thereafter ceased to say very much about their poverty, shifting their complaint rather to
social proscription. In 1851 a contributor to The African Repository, the organ of the American
Colonization Society, discussed the situation of the 48,000 free Negroes of New York. Directing
his attention to the 14,000 living in the metropolis, the editor said that the condition of
4,000 of them approached that of comfort; 1,000 of the number having substantial wealth, or
that one out of every ten was in a pleasant and enviable social condition. As this pessimist
was compelled to concede that this was not a bad showing for an oppressed people he goes off
on another line, saying: "Everywhere the Negro, whatever his wealth or education or talents,
is excluded from social equality and social freedom."[19]

There were many instances of individual enterprise, however, but these often meant little since
Negroes had such a little knowledge of business that white persons often defrauded them out
of what they accumulated. Sojourner Truth accumulated more than enough money to supply her
wants, but lost some of it by depositing it in a bank without taking account of the sum which
she deposited and without asking for the interest when she drew her money from the bank.[20]
One Pierson persuaded her to take her money out of the bank and invest it in a common fund
which he was raising to be drawn upon by all needy and faithful free Negroes.[21] Her savings,
therefore, served to increase this fund, which instead of relieving the economic condition
of many needy free Negroes enriched this white impostor.

As evidences of this unusual progress of the Negroes there are many instances of persons who
gained wealth in spite of the various handicaps. Many of the caterers and restaurant keepers
of high order of New York were Negroes, the most popular of whom being Thomas Downing, the
keeper of a restaurant under what is now the Drexel Building, near the corner of Wall and Broad
streets, New York City.[22] Abner H. Frances and James Garrett, were formerly extensive clothiers
of Buffalo, New York, doing business to the amount of $60,000 annually. They continued their
enterprise successfully for years, their credit being good for any amount of money they needed.
They failed in business in 1849 but thereafter adjusted the claims against them.[23] Henry
Scott and Company, of New York City, engaged in the pickling business, principally confined
to supplying vessels.[24] Edward V. Clark, another business man of New York, had a jewelry
establishment requiring much capital. His name had, moreover, a respectable standing even among
the dealers of Wall Street.[25] Mr. Huston kept for years an intelligence office in New York.
He was succeeded by Philip A. Bell, an excellent business man. Concerning it, Austin Steward
reported in his book entitled "The Condition of the Colored People" that "his business is very
extensive, being sought from all points of the city by the first people of the community.[26]

Many other names may be mentioned. William H. Topp was one of the leading merchant tailors
of Albany, New York. Starting in the world without aid he educated and qualified himself for
business.[27] In Penyan, Messrs. William Platt and Joseph C. Cassey were said to be carrying
on an extensive trade in lumber.[28]

Situated in the midst of a rapidly developing country the enterprises of these free Negroes
increased in importance every year. This was especially true of the drug stores of Dr. James
McCune Smith, on Broadway, a Negro physician, who was practicing in New York City during the
thirties, and of the establishment of Dr. Philip White, on Frankfort street. Many Negroes accumulated
considerable wealth. Edward Bidwell successfully operated during the period of 1827-40 two
stores on the main street of New York City, hoarding considerable money. Austin Steward, still
another instance of New York City, made "handsome profits" from the sale of spirituous liquors.
At one time he said that no further exertion was necessary on his part to enjoy life, or to
better his economic condition. Finally, William Smith, a shrewd sailor of New York, managed
to accumulate considerable wealth.

The statistics of the census of 1850 give further evidences of this general progress. Of the
50,000 free people of color in the State of New York over 15 years of age in 1850, sixty were
clerks, doctors and lawyers and about 55 were merchants and teachers.[29] There were, moreover:

    2 apprentices       3 barkeepers          4 bakers
    1 blacksmith      122 barbers            21 boarding house keepers
   28 boatmen          33 butchers            8 cigar makers
   12 carpenters       39 carmen             95 cooks
  107 coachmen          2 confectioners       1 gunsmith
   24 farmers           7 gardeners           3 merchants
    2 hatters          11 ink makers       1144 laborers
    3 jewelers         21 ministers           4 painters
   24 musicians       434 mariners            2 mechanics
   15 marketmen         4 printers           23 tailors
   44 stewards        808 servants           23 shoemakers
   12 sextons           8 teachers
                      207 engaged in other
                          occupations

Many Negroes used wisely the money which they obtained from these businesses. Out of a free
population of 50,000 Negroes, 5,447, or about one in ten was in school during this period.
In a pamphlet entitled the Present Condition of Free People of Color published by James Freeman
Clarke in 1859, the author stated that they were no less neat in person and attire than their
white neighbors.[30] One year during the period from 1850 to 1860 Negroes of New York City
invested in business carried on by themselves $775,000; in businesses of Brooklyn $76,000.
That same year these free Negroes purchased real estate in New York worth $733,000, and in
Brooklyn $276,000.[31]

With complete freedom in New York, free Negroes made more efforts to improve their condition.
There were established several newspapers which served not only to present their cause to the
public but also as economic factors. First of these must be mentioned a publication called
Freedom's Journal or The Rights of All. This paper, edited by James B. Russworm, the first
Negro college graduate in the United States, and Rev. Samuel F. Cornish, was established in
March, 1827.[32] Another journal, styled The Weekly Advocate, changing its name later to The
Colored American, appeared in New York, March 4, 1837. The editor was Philip A. Bell. Later
Charles Bennett Ray became one of the proprietors and editors. Finally, mention must be made
of such journals of this period as The Elevator, of Albany, edited by Stephen Myers; The Genius
of Freedom, by David Ruggles; People's Press, by Thomas Hamilton; and North Star, by Frederick
Douglass. Concerning the last named publication, it was generally said that it was conducted
on a higher plane than any of the others and that it was among the first newspapers of the country.

                                             ARNETT G. LINDSAY.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Census of New York before 1790:

  Year                       Number
  1664                               "very few"
  1678                               "very few"
  1698  King's County,                     293.
  1703, 5 counties about N. Y. City      1,301.
  1712, 5 counties about N. Y. City      1,775.
  1723                                   6,171
  1731                                   7,231
  1746                                   9,717
  1774                                  21,717
  1790                                  21,324
  1800                                  20,903
  1810                                  15,017
  1820                                  10,088
  1830                                      75
  1840                                       4

      NEW YORK CITY SLAVES.

  1703                    801
  1712                    960
  1731                  1,571
  1737                  1,719
  1746                  2,444

Morgan, Slavery in New York, page 38.

[2] New York Emancipation Law--African Repository, Vol. 31, page 155.

[3] Half a Man, M. W. Ovington, page 69.

[4] American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1797, p. 39.

[5] Ibid., p. 31.

[6] Ibid., p. 39.

[7] Ibid., p. 30.

[8] Ibid., 1803, p. 7.

[9] American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1805, p. 38.

[10] Ibid., 1812, p. 7.

[11] American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1812, p. 14.

[12] Inspectors of the New York African Free Schools reported to The Commercial Advertiser,
May 12, 1824, that "we never beheld a white school of the same age in which without exception
there was more order, neatness of dress, and cleanliness of person."

[13] Ibid.

[14] Journal of Negro History, Vol. III, p. 354.

[15] Woodson, Education of the Negro Prior to 1861, p. 286.

[16] Journal of Negro History, Vol. III.

[17] Hurd's Law of Freedom-Bondage, p. 81.

[18] African Repository, September, 1846, p. 278.

[19] Ibid., 1851, p. 263.

[20] Narrative of Sojourner Truth, p. 99.

[21] Ibid., p. 99.

[22] Martin Delaney, Condition of Colored People, p. 139.

[23] Ibid., p. 102.

[24] Ibid., p. 106.

[25] Austin Steward, Condition of Colored People, p. 102.

[26] Ibid., p. 102.

[27] Austin Steward, Condition of Colored People, p. 102.

[28] Ibid., p. 132.

[29] Seventh Census of the United States.

[30] J. F. Clarke, Present Condition of People of Color, p. 14.

[31] Ibid.

[32] Afro-American Press, p. 27.

DOCUMENTS

THE APPEAL OF THE AMERICAN CONVENTION OF ABOLITION SOCIETIES

The student of the so-called Negro problem of today may find it profitable to study the methods
of persons thus concerned more than a century ago. What their plans were, what machinery they
constructed for carrying them out, and the hopes they had for ultimate success, will furnish
much material for reflection for social workers. There is published below, therefore, a number
of the annual appeals of the American Convention of Abolition Societies to the various branches,
setting forth the annual review of the work, the general survey of results obtained and the
ways and means to carry it forward to a successful completion.

                        TO THE ANTISLAVERY GROUPS

     To the                                      Society for
             promoting the abolition of Slavery, Ec.

     It is with peculiar pleasure we inform you, that the Convention
     of Delegates, from most of the Abolition Societies formed in the
     United States, met in this city, have, with much unanimity, gone
     through the business which came before them. The advantages to be
     derived from this meeting are so evident, that we have agreed
     earnestly to recommend to you, that a similar meeting be annually
     convened, until the great object of our association--the liberty
     of our fellowmen--shall be fully and equivocally established.

     To obtain this important end, we conceive that it is proper,
     constantly to have in view the necessity of using our utmost and
     unremitting endeavors to abolish slavery, and to protect and
     meliorate the condition of the enslaved, and of the emancipated.
     The irresistible, though silent progress of the principles of
     true philosophy, will do much for us; but, placed in a situation
     well adapted to promote these principles, it surely becomes us to
     improve every occasion of forwarding the great designs of our
     institutions. For this purpose, we think it proper to request you
     to unite with us, in the most strenuous exertions, to effect a
     compliance with the laws in favour of emancipation; and, where
     these laws are deficient, respectful applications to the
     State-Legislatures should not be discontinued, however
     unsuccessful they may prove.--Let us remember, for our
     consolation and encouragement in these cases, that, although
     interest and prejudice may oppose, yet the fundamental principles
     of our government, as well as the progressive and rapid influence
     of reason and religion, are in our favour--and let us never be
     discouraged by a fear of the event, from performing any task of
     duty, when clearly pointed out; for it is an undoubted
     truth--that no good effort can ever be entirely lost.

     While contemplating the great principles of our associations, we
     cannot refrain from recommending to your attention the propriety
     of using your endeavours to form, as circumstances may require,
     Abolition Societies in your own, and in the neighboring States;
     as, for want of the concurrence of others, the good intentions
     and efforts of many an honest and zealous individual are often
     defeated.

     But, while we wish to draw your attention to these objects, there
     is another which we cannot pass over. We are all too much
     accustomed to the reproaches of the enemies of our cause, on the
     subject of the ignorance and crimes of the Blacks, not to wish
     that they were ill-founded.

     We shall transmit you an exact copy of our proceedings, with the
     different memorials and addresses which to us have appeared
     necessary at this time; and would recommend to you the propriety
     of giving full powers to the Delegates who are to meet in the
     year 1795; believing that the business of that Convention will be
     rendered more easy and more extensively useful, if you send, by
     your Representatives, certified copies of the constitution and
     laws of your Society, and of all the laws existing in your
     state concerning slavery, with such facts relative to this
     business, as may ascertain the respective situation of slavery,
     and of the Blacks in general.

     To the                                      Society for
             promoting the abolition of slavery, &c.

     The Delegates, from the several Abolition Societies in the United
     States, convened in this city, express to you, with great
     satisfaction, the pleasure they have experienced from the
     punctual attendance of the persons, delegated to this Convention,
     and that harmony with which they have deliberated on the several
     matters that have been presented to them, at this time, for their
     consideration. The benefits which may flow from a continuance of
     this general meeting, by aiding the principal design of its
     institution--the universal emancipation of the wretched Africans
     who are yet in bondage, appear to us so many and important, that
     we are induced to recommend to you, to send Delegates to a
     similar Convention, which we propose to be holden, in this city,
     on the first day of January, in the year one thousand, seven
     hundred and ninety-six.

     We have thought it proper to request your further attention to
     that part of the address of the former Convention, which relates
     to the procurement of certified copies of the laws of your state
     respecting slavery; and that you would send, to the next
     Convention, exact copies of all such laws as are now in force,
     and of such as have been repealed. Convinced that an historical
     review of the various acts and provisions of the Legislatures of
     the several states, relating to slavery, from the periods of
     their respective settlements to the present time, by tracing the
     progress of the system to African slavery in this country, and
     its successive change in the different governments of the Union,
     would throw much light on the objects of our enquiry and
     attention, and enable us to determine, how far the cause of
     justice and humanity has advanced among us, and how soon we may
     reasonably expect to see it triumphant;--we recommend to you, to
     take such measures as you may think conducive to that purpose,
     for procuring materials for the work now proposed, and assisting
     its publication; and to communicate, to the ensuing Convention,
     what progress you shall have made toward perfecting the plan here
     offered for your consideration and care.

     Believing that an acquaintance with the names of the officers of
     the several Abolition Societies, would facilitate that friendly
     correspondence which ought always to be preserved between our
     various associations, we request that you would send, to the
     next, and to every future Convention, an accurate list of all the
     officers of your Society, for the time being, with the number of
     members of which it consists. And it would assist that Convention
     in ascertaining the existing state of slavery in the United
     States, if you were to forward to them an exact account of the
     persons who have been liberated by the agency of your Society,
     and of those who may be considered as signal instances of the
     relief that you have afforded; and, also, a statement of the
     number of free blacks in your state, their property, employments,
     and moral conduct.

     As a knowledge of what has been done, and of that success which
     has attended the efforts of humanity, will cherish the hope of
     benevolence, and stimulate to further exertion, we trust that you
     will be of opinion with us, that it would be highly useful to
     procure correct reports of all such trials, and decisions of
     courts of judicature, respecting slavery, a knowledge of which
     may be subservient to the cause of abolition, and to transmit
     them to the next, or to any future Convention.

