Horace Walpole--not the Horace--but 'Uncle Horace,' or 'old Horace,' as he was called, was
then ambassador to the court of the Tuileries. Mr. Walpole was one of the Houghton 'lot,' a
brother of the famous minister Sir Robert, and though less celebrated, almost as able in his
line. He had distinguished himself in various diplomatic appointments, in Spain, at Hanover
and the Hague, and having successfully tackled Cardinal Fleury, the successor of the Richelieus
and Mazarins at Paris, he was now in high favour at home. In after years he was celebrated
for his duel with Chetwynd, who, when 'Uncle Horace' had in the House expressed a hope that
the question might be carried, had exclaimed, 'I hope to see you hanged first!' 'You hope to
see me hanged first, do you?' cried Horace, with all the ferocity of the Walpoles; and thereupon,
seizing him by the most prominent feature of his face, shook him violently. This was matter
enough for a brace of swords and coffee for four, and Mr. Chetwynd had to repent of his remark
after being severely wounded. In those days our honourable House of Commons was as much an
arena of wild beasts as the American senate of to-day.

To this minister our noble duke wrote a hypocritical letter, which, as it shows how the man
could write penitently, is worth transcribing.

    'Lions, June 28, 1728.

'Sir,--Your excellency will be surpris'd to receive a letter from me; but the clemency with
which the government of England has treated me, which is in a great measure owing to your brother's
regard to my father's memory, makes me hope that you will give me leave to express my gratitude
for it.

'Since his present majesty's accession to the throne I have absolutely refused to be concerned
with the Pretender or any of his affairs; and during my stay in Italy have behaved myself in
a manner that Dr. Peters, Mr. Godolphin, and Mr. Mills can declare to be consistent with my
duty to the present king. I was forc'd to go to Italy to get out of Spain, where, if my true
design had been known, I should have been treated a little severely.

'I am coming to Paris to put myself entirely under your excellency's protection; and hope that
Sir Robert Walpole's good-nature will prompt him to save a family which his generosity induced
him to spare. If your excellency would permit me to wait upon you for an hour, I am certain
you would be convinc'd of the sincerity of my repentance for my former madness, would become
an advocate with his majesty to grant me his most gracious pardon, which it is my comfort I
shall never be required to purchase by any step unworthy of a man of honour. I do not intend,
in case of the king's allowing me to pass the evening of my days under the shadow of his royal
protection, to see England for some years, but shall remain in France or Germany, as my friends
shall advise, and enjoy country sports till all former stories are buried in oblivion. I beg
of your excellency to let me receive your orders at Paris, which I will send to your hostel
to receive. The Dutchess of Wharton, who is with me, desires leave to wait on Mrs. Walpole,
if you think proper.

    'I am, &c.'

After this, the ambassador could do no less than receive him; but he was somewhat disgusted
when on leaving him the duke frankly told him--forgetting all about his penitent letter, probably,
or too reckless to care for it--that he was going to dine with the Bishop of Rochester--Atterbury
himself, then living in Paris--whose society was interdicted to any subject of King George.
The duke, with his usual folly, touched on other subjects equally dangerous, his visit to Rome,
and his conversion to Romanism; and, in short, disgusted the cautious Mr. Walpole. There is
something delightfully impudent about all these acts of Wharton's; and had he only been a clown
at Drury Lane instead of an English nobleman, he must have been successful. As it is, when
one reads of the petty hatred and humbug of those days, when liberty of speech was as unknown
as any other liberty, one cannot but admire the impudence of his Grace of Wharton, and wish
that most dukes, without being as profligate, would be as free-spoken.

With six hundred pounds in his pocket, our young Lothario now set up house at Rouen, with an
establishment 'equal,' say the old-school writers, 'to his position, but not to his means.'
In other words, he undertook to live in a style for which he could not pay. Twelve hundred
a year may be enough for a duke, as for any other man, but not for one who considers a legion
of servants a necessary appendage to his position. My lord duke, who was a good French scholar,
soon found an ample number of friends and acquaintances, and not being particular about either,
managed to get through his half-year's income in a few weeks. Evil consequence: he was assailed
by duns. French duns know nothing about forgiving debtors; 'your money first, and then my pardon,'
is their motto. My lord duke soon found this out. Still he had an income, and could pay them
all off in time. So he drank and was merry, till one fine day came a disagreeable piece of
news, which startled him considerably. The government at home had heard of his doings, and
determined to arraign him for high treason.

He could expect little else, for had he not actually taken up arms against his sovereign?

Now Sir Robert Walpole was, no doubt, a vulgarian. He was not a man to love or sympathise with;
but he was good-natured at bottom. Our 'frolic grace' had reason to acknowledge this. He could
not complain of harshness in any measures taken against him, and he had certainly no claim
to consideration from the government he had treated so ill. Yet Sir Robert was willing to give
him every chance; and so far did he go, that he sent over a couple of friends to him to induce
him only to ask pardon of the king, with a promise that it would be granted. For sure the Duke
of Wharton's character was anomalous. The same man who had more than once humiliated himself
when unasked, who had written to Walpole's brother the letter we have read, would not now,
when entreated to do so, write a few lines to that minister to ask mercy. Nay, when the gentleman
in question offered to be content even with a letter from the duke's valet, he refused to allow
the man to write. Some people may admire what they will believe to be firmness, but when we
review the duke's character and subsequent acts, we cannot attribute this refusal to anything
but obstinate pride. The consequence of this folly was a stoppage of supplies, for as he was
accused of high treason, his estate was of course sequestrated. He revenged himself by writing
a paper which was published in 'Mist's Journal,' and which, under the cover of a Persian tale,
contained a species of libel on the government.

His position was now far from enviable; and, assailed by duns, he had no resource but to humble
himself, not before those he had offended, but before the Chevalier, to whom he wrote in his
distress, and who sent him £2,000, which he soon frittered away in follies. This gone, the
duke begged and borrowed, for there are some people such fools that they would rather lose
a thousand pounds to a peer than give sixpence to a pauper, and many a tale was told of the
artful manner in which his grace managed to cozen his friends out of a louis or two. His ready
wit generally saved him.

Thus on one occasion an Irish toady invited him to dinner: the duke talked of his wardrobe,
then sadly defective; what suit should he wear? The Hibernian suggested black velvet. 'Could
you recommend a tailor?' 'Certainly.' Snip came, an expensive suit was ordered, put on, and
the dinner taken. In due course the tailor called for his money. The duke was not a bit at
a loss, though he had but a few francs to his name. 'Honest man,' quoth he, 'you mistake the
matter entirely. Carry the bill to Sir Peter; for know that whenever I consent to wear another
man's livery, my master pays for the clothes,' and inasmuch as the dinner-giver was an Irishman,
he did actually discharge the account.

At other times he would give a sumptuous entertainment, and in one way or another induce his
guests to pay for it. He was only less adroit in coining excuses than Theodore Hook, and had
he lived a century later, we might have a volume full of anecdotes to give of his ways and
no means. Meanwhile his unfortunate duchess was living on the charity of friends, while her
lord and master, when he could get anyone to pay for a band, was serenading young ladies. Yet
he was jealous enough of his wife at times, and once sent a challenge to a Scotch nobleman,
simply because some silly friend asked him if he had forbidden his wife to dance with the lord.
He went all the way to Flanders to meet his opponent; but, perhaps fortunately for the duke,
Marshal Berwick arrested the Scotchman, and the duel never came off.

Whether he felt his end approaching, or whether he was sick of vile pleasures which he had
recklessly pursued from the age of fifteen, he now, though only thirty years of age, retired
for a time to a convent, and was looked on as a penitent and devotee. Penury, doubtless, cured
him in a measure, and poverty, the porter of the gates of heaven, warned him to look forward
beyond a life he had so shamefully misused. But it was only a temporary repentance; and when
he left the religious house, he again rushed furiously into every kind of dissipation.

At length, utterly reduced to the last extremities, he bethought himself of his colonelcy in
Spain, and determined to set out to join his regiment. The following letter from a friend who
accompanied him will best show what circumstances he was in:--

                                                'Paris, June 1, 1729.

'Dear Sir,--I am just returned from the Gates of Death, to return you Thanks for your last
kind Letter of Accusations, which I am persuaded was intended as a seasonable Help to my Recollection,
at a Time that it was necessary for me to send an Inquisitor General into my Conscience, to
examine and settle all the Abuses that ever were committed in that little Court of Equity;
but I assure you, your long Letter did not lay so much my Faults as my Misfortunes before me,
which believe me, dear ----, have fallen as heavy and as thick upon me as the Shower of Hail
upon us two in E---- Forest, and has left me much at a Loss which way to turn myself. The Pilot
of the Ship I embarked in, who industriously ran upon every Rock, has at last split the Vessel,
and so much of a sudden, that the whole Crew, I mean his Domesticks, are all left to swim for
their Lives, without one friendly Plank to assist them to Shore. In short, he left me sick,
in Debt, and without a Penny; but as I begin to recover, and have a little time to Think, I
can't help considering myself, as one whisk'd up behind a Witch upon a Broomstick, and hurried
over Mountains and Dales through confus'd Woods and thorny Thickets, and when the Charm is
ended, and the poor Wretch dropp'd in a Desart, he can give no other Account of his enchanted
Travels, but that he is much fatigued in Body and Mind, his Cloaths torn, and worse in all
other Circumstances, without being of the least Service to himself or any body else. But I
will follow your Advice with an active Resolution, to retrieve my bad Fortune, and almost a
Year miserably misspent.

    'I am, &c.'

Still his good-humour did not desert him; he joked about their poverty on the road, and wrote
an amusing account of their journey to a friend, winding up with the well-known lines:--

    'Be kind to my remains, and oh! defend,
     Against your judgment, your departed friend.'

His mind was as vigorous as ever, in spite of the waste of many debauches; and when recommended
to make a new translation of 'Telemachus;' he actually devoted one whole day to the work; the
next he forgot all about it. In the same manner he began a play on the story of Mary Queen
of Scots, and Lady M. W. Montagu wrote an epilogue for it, but the piece never got beyond a
few scenes. His genius, perhaps, was not for either poetry or the drama. His mind was a keen,
clear one, better suited to argument and to grapple tough polemic subjects. Had he but been
a sober man, he might have been a fair, if not a great writer. The 'True Briton,' with many
faults of license, shows what his capabilities were. His absence of moral sense may be guessed
from his poem on the preaching of Atterbury, in which is a parallel almost blasphemous.

At length he reached Bilboa and his regiment, and had to live on the meagre pay of eighteen
pistoles a month. The Duke of Ormond, then an exile, took pity on his wife, and supported her
for a time: she afterwards rejoined her mother at Madrid.

Meanwhile, the year 1730 brought about a salutary change in the duke's morals. His health was
fast giving way from the effects of divers excesses; and there is nothing like bad health for
purging a bad soul. The end of a misspent life was fast drawing near, and he could only keep
it up by broth with eggs beaten up in it. He lost the use of his limbs, but not of his gaiety.
In the mountains of Catalonia he met with a mineral spring which did him some good; so much,
in fact, that he was able to rejoin his regiment for a time. A fresh attack sent him back to
the waters; but on his way he was so violently attacked that he was forced to stop at a little
village. Here he found himself without the means of going farther, and in the worst state of
health. The monks of a Bernardine convent took pity on him and received him into their house.
He grew worse and worse; and in a week died on the 31st of May, without a friend to pity or
attend him, among strangers, and at the early age of thirty-two.

Thus ended the life of one of the cleverest fools that ever disgraced our peerage.

The village of Kensington was disturbed in its sweet repose one day, more than a century ago,
by the rumbling of a ponderous coach and six, with four outriders and two equerries kicking
up the dust; whilst a small body of heavy dragoons rode solemnly after the huge vehicle. It
waded, with inglorious struggles, through a deep mire of mud, between the Palace and Hyde Park,
until the cortège entered Kensington Park, as the gardens were then called, and began to track
the old road that led to the red-brick structure to which William III. had added a higher story,
built by Wren. All around, as the emblazoned carriage impressively veers round into the grand
entrance, savours of William and Mary, of Anne, of Bishop Burnet and Harley, Atterbury and
Bolingbroke. But those were pleasant days compared to those of the second George, whose return
from Hanover in this mountain of a coach is now described.

The panting steeds are gracefully curbed by the state coachman in his scarlet livery, with
his cocked-hat and gray wig underneath it: now the horses are foaming and reeking as if they
had come from the world's end to Kensington, and yet they have only been to meet King George
on his entrance into London, which he has reached from Helvoetsluys, on his way from Hanover,
in time, as he expects, to spend his birthday among his English subjects.

It is Sunday, and repose renders the retirement of Kensington and its avenues and shades more
sombre than ever. Suburban retirement is usually so. It is noon; and the inmates of Kensington
Palace are just coming forth from the chapel in the palace. The coach is now stopping, and
the equerries are at hand to offer their respectful assistance to the diminutive figure that,
in full Field-marshal regimentals, a cocked-hat stuck crosswise on his head, a sword dangling
even down to his heels, ungraciously heeds them not, but stepping down, as the great iron gates
are thrown open to receive him, looks neither like a king or a gentleman. A thin, worn face,
in which weakness and passion are at once pictured; a form buttoned and padded up to the chin;
high Hessian boots without a wrinkle; a sword and a swagger, no more constituting him the military
character than the 'your majesty' from every lip can make a poor thing of clay a king. Such
was George II.: brutal, even to his submissive wife. Stunted by nature, he was insignificant
in form, as he was petty in character; not a trace of royalty could be found in that silly,
tempestuous physiognomy, with its hereditary small head: not an atom of it in his made-up,
paltry little presence; still less in his bearing, language, or qualities.

The queen and her court have come from chapel, to meet the royal absentee at the great gate:
the consort, who was to his gracious majesty like an elder sister rather than a wife, bends
down, not to his knees, but yet she bends, to kiss the hand of her royal husband. She is a
fair, fat woman, no longer young, scarcely comely; but with a charm of manners, a composure,
and a savoir faire that causes one to regard her as mated, not matched to the little creature
in that cocked-hat, which he does not take off even when she stands before him. The pair, nevertheless,
embrace: it is a triennial ceremony performed when the king goes or returns from Hanover, but
suffered to lapse at other times; but the condescension is too great: and Caroline ends, where
she began: 'gluing her lips to the ungracious hand held out to her in evident ill-humour.

They turn, and walk through the court, then up the grand staircase, into the queen's apartment.
The king has been swearing all the way at England and the English, because he has been obliged
to return from Hanover, where the German mode of life and new mistresses were more agreeable
to him than the English customs and an old wife. He displays, therefore, even on this supposed
happy occasion, one of the worst outbreaks of his insufferable temper, of which the queen is
the first victim. All the company in the palace, both ladies and gentlemen, are ordered to
enter: he talks to them all, but to the queen he says not a word.

She is attended by Mrs. Clayton, afterwards Lady Sundon, whose lively manners and great good
temper and good will--lent out like leasehold to all, till she saw what their friendship might
bring,--are always useful at these tristes rencontres. Mrs. Clayton is the amalgamating substance
between chemical agents which have, of themselves, no cohesion; she covers with address what
is awkward; she smooths down with something pleasant what is rude; she turns off--and her office
in that respect is no sinecure at that court--what is indecent, so as to keep the small majority
of the company who have respectable notions in good humour. To the right of Queen Caroline
stands another of her majesty's household, to whom the most deferential attention is paid by
all present; nevertheless, she is queen of the court, but not the queen of the royal master
of that court. It is Lady Suffolk, the mistress of King George II., and long mistress of the
robes to Queen Caroline. She is now past the bloom of youth, but her attractions are not in
their wane; but endured until she had attained her seventy-ninth year. Of a middle height,
well made, extremely fair, with very fine light hair, she attracts regard from her sweet, fresh
face, which had in it a comeliness independent of regularity of feature. According to her invariable
custom, she is dressed with simplicity; her silky tresses are drawn somewhat back from her
snowy forehead, and fall in long tresses on her shoulders, not less transparently white. She
wears a gown of rich silk, opening in front to display a chemisette of the most delicate cambric,
which is scarcely less delicate than her skin. Her slender arms are without bracelets, and
her taper fingers without rings. As she stands behind the queen, holding her majesty's fan
and gloves, she is obliged, from her deafness, to lean her fair face with its sunny hair first
to the right side, then to the left, with the helpless air of one exceedingly deaf--for she
had been afflicted with that infirmity for some years: yet one cannot say whether her appealing
looks, which seem to say, 'Enlighten me if you please,'--and the sort of softened manner in
which she accepts civilities which she scarcely comprehends do not enhance the wonderful charm
which drew every one who knew her towards this frail, but passionless woman.

The queen forms the centre of the group. Caroline, daughter of the Marquis of Brandenburgh-Anspach,
notwithstanding her residence in England of many years, notwithstanding her having been, at
the era at which this biography begins, ten years its queen--is still German in every attribute.
She retains, in her fair and comely face, traces of having been handsome; but her skin is deeply
scarred by the cruel small-pox. She is now at that time of life when Sir Robert Walpole even
thought it expedient to reconcile her to no longer being an object of attraction to her royal
consort. As a woman, she has ceased to be attractive to a man of the character of George II.;
but, as a queen, she is still, as far as manners are concerned, incomparable. As she turns
to address various members of the assembly, her style is full of sweetness as well as of courtesy,
yet on other occasions she is majesty itself. The tones of her voice, with its still foreign
accent, are most captivating; her eyes penetrate into every countenance on which they rest.
Her figure, plump and matronly, has lost much of its contour; but is well suited for her part.
Majesty in women should be embonpoint. Her hands are beautifully white, and faultless in shape.
The king always admired her bust; and it is, therefore, by royal command, tolerably exposed.
Her fair hair is upraised in full short curls over her brow: her dress is rich, and distinguished
in that respect from that of the Countess of Suffolk.--'Her good Howard'--as she was wont to
call her, when, before her elevation to the peerage, she was lady of the bedchamber to Caroline,
had, when in that capacity, been often subjected to servile offices, which the queen, though
apologizing in the sweetest manner, delighted to make her perform. 'My good Howard' having
one day placed a handkerchief on the back of her royal mistress, the king, who half worshipped
his intellectual wife, pulled it off in a passion, saying, 'Because you have an ugly neck yourself,
you hide the queen's!' All, however, that evening was smooth as ice, and perhaps as cold also.
The company are quickly dismissed, and the king, who has scarcely spoken to the queen, retires
to his closet, where he is attended by the subservient Caroline, and by two other persons.

Sir Robert Walpole, prime minister, has accompanied the king in his carriage, from the very
entrance of London, where the famous statesman met him. He is now the privileged companion
of their majesties, in their seclusion for the rest of the evening. His cheerful face, in its
full evening disguise of wig and tie, his invariable good humour, his frank manners, his wonderful
sense, his views, more practical than elevated, sufficiently account for the influence which
this celebrated minister obtained over Queen Caroline, and the readiness of King George to
submit to the tie. But Sir Robert's great source of ascendancy was his temper. Never was there
in the annals of our country a minister so free of access: so obliging in giving, so unoffending
when he refused; so indulgent and kind to those dependent on him; so generous, so faithful
to his friends, so forgiving to his foes. This was his character under one phase: even his
adherents sometimes blamed his easiness of temper; the impossibility in his nature to cherish
the remembrance of a wrong, or even to be roused by an insult. But, whilst such were the amiable
traits of his character, history has its lists of accusations against him for corruption of
the most shameless description. The end of this veteran statesman's career is well known. The
fraudulent contracts which he gave, the peculation and profusion of the secret service money,
his undue influence at elections, brought around his later life a storm, from which he retreated
into the Upper House, when created Earl of Orford. It was before this timely retirement from
office that he burst forth in these words: 'I oppose nothing; give in to everything; am said
to do everything; and to answer for everything; and yet, God knows, I dare not do what I think
is right.'

With his public capacity, however, we have not here to do: it is in his character of a courtier
that we view him following the queen and king. His round, complacent face, with his small glistening
eyes, arched eyebrows, and with a mouth ready to break out aloud into a laugh, are all subdued
into a respectful gravity as he listens to King George grumbling at the necessity for his return
home. No English cook could dress a dinner; no English cook could select a dessert; no English
coachman could drive; nor English jockey ride; no Englishman--such were his habitual taunts--knew
how to come into a room; no Englishwoman understood how to dress herself. The men, he said,
talked of nothing but their dull politics, and the women of nothing but their ugly clothes.
Whereas, in Hanover, all these things were at perfection: men were patterns of politeness and
gallantry; women, of beauty, wit, and entertainment. His troops there were the bravest in the
world; his manufacturers the most ingenious; his people the happiest: in Hanover, in short,
plenty reigned, riches flowed, arts flourished, magnificence abounded, everything was in abundance
that could make a prince great, or a people blessed.

There was one standing behind the queen who listened to these outbreaks of the king's bilious
temper, as he called it, with an apparently respectful solicitude, but with the deepest disgust
in his heart. A slender, elegant figure, in a court suit, faultlessly and carefully perfect
in that costume, stands behind the queen's chair. It is Lord Hervey. His lofty forehead, his
features, which have a refinement of character, his well-turned mouth, and full and dimpled
chin, form his claims to that beauty which won the heart of the lovely Mary Lepel; whilst the
somewhat thoughtful and pensive expression of his physiognomy, when in repose, indicated the
sympathising, yet, at the same time, satirical character of one who won the affections, perhaps
unconsciously, of the amiable Princess Caroline, the favourite daughter of George II.

A general air of languor, ill concealed by the most studied artifice of countenance, and even
of posture, characterizes Lord Hervey. He would have abhorred robustness; for he belonged to
the clique then called Maccaronis; a set of fine gentlemen, of whom the present world would
not be worthy, tricked out for show, fitted only to drive out fading majesty in a stage coach;
exquisite in every personal appendage, too fine for the common usages of society; point-device,
not only in every curl and ruffle, but in every attitude and step; men with full satin roses
on their shining shoes; diamond tablet rings on their forefingers; with snuff-boxes, the worth
of which might almost purchase a farm; lace worked by the delicate fingers of some religious
recluse of an ancestress, and taken from an altar-cloth; old point-lace, dark as coffee-water
could make it; with embroidered waistcoats, wreathed in exquisite tambour-work round each capricious
lappet and pocket; with cut steel buttons that glistened beneath the courtly wax-lights: with
these and fifty other small but costly characteristics that established the reputation of an
aspirant Maccaroni. Lord Hervey was, in truth, an effeminate creature: too dainty to walk;
too precious to commit his frame to horseback; and prone to imitate the somewhat recluse habits
which German rulers introduced within the court: he was disposed to candle-light pleasures
and cockney diversions; to Marybone and the Mall, and shrinking from the athletic and social
recreations which, like so much that was manly and English, were confined almost to the English
squire pur et simple after the Hanoverian accession; when so much degeneracy for a while obscured
the English character, debased its tone, enervated its best races, vilified its literature,
corrupted its morals, changed its costume, and degraded its architecture.

Beneath the effeminacy of the Maccaroni, Lord Hervey was one of the few who united to intense
finery in every minute detail, an acute and cultivated intellect. To perfect a Maccaroni it
was in truth advisable, if not essential, to unite some smattering of learning, a pretension
to wit, to his super-dandyism; to be the author of some personal squib, or the translator of
some classic. Queen Caroline was too cultivated herself to suffer fools about her, and Lord
Hervey was a man after her own taste; as a courtier he was essentially a fine gentleman; and,
more than that, he could be the most delightful companion, the most sensible adviser, and the
most winning friend in the court. His ill-health, which he carefully concealed, his fastidiousness,
his ultra-delicacy of habits, formed an agreeable contrast to the coarse robustness of 'Sir
Robert,' and constituted a relief after the society of the vulgar, strong-minded minister,
who was born for the hustings and the House of Commons rather than for the courtly drawing-room.

John Lord Hervey, long vice-chamberlain to Queen Caroline, was, like Sir Robert Walpole, descended
from a commoner's family, one of those good old squires who lived, as Sir Henry Wotton says,
'without lustre and without obscurity.' The Duchess of Marlborough had procured the elevation
of the Herveys of Ickworth to the peerage. She happened to be intimate with Sir Thomas Felton,
the father of Mrs. Hervey, afterwards Lady Bristol, whose husband, at first created Lord Hervey,
and afterwards Earl of Bristol, expressed his obligations by retaining as his motto, when raised
to the peerage, the words 'Je n'oublieray jàmais,' in allusion to the service done him by the
Duke and Duchess of Marlborough.

The Herveys had always been an eccentric race; and the classification of 'men, women, and Herveys,'
by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, was not more witty than true. There was in the whole race an
eccentricity which bordered on the ridiculous, but did not imply want of sense or of talent.
Indeed this third species, 'the Herveys,' were more gifted than the generality of 'men and
women.' The father of Lord Hervey had been a country gentleman of good fortune, living at Ickworth,
near Bury in Suffolk, and representing the town in parliament, as his father had before him,
until raised to the peerage. Before that elevation he had lived on in his own county, uniting
the character of the English squire, in that fox-hunting county, with that of a perfect gentleman,
a scholar, and a most admirable member of society. He was a poet, also, affecting the style
of Cowley, who wrote an elegy upon his uncle, William Hervey, an elegy compared to Milton's
'Lycidas' in imagery, music, and tenderness of thought. The shade of Cowley, whom Charles II.
pronounced, at his death, to be 'the best man in England,' haunted this peer, the first Earl
of Bristol. He aspired especially to the poet's wit; and the ambition to be a wit flew like
wildfire among his family, especially infecting his two sons, Carr, the elder brother of the
subject of this memoir, and Lord Hervey.

It would have been well could the Earl of Bristol have transmitted to his sons his other qualities.
He was pious, moral, affectionate, sincere; a consistent Whig of the old school, and, as such,
disapproving of Sir Robert Walpole, of the standing army, the corruptions, and that doctrine
of expediency so unblushingly avowed by the ministers.

Created Earl of Bristol in 1714, the heir-apparent to his titles and estates was the elder
brother, by a former marriage, of John, Lord Hervey; the dissolute, clever, whimsical Carr,
Lord Hervey. Pope, in one of his satirical appeals to the second Lord Hervey, speaks of his
friendship with Carr, 'whose early death deprived the family' (of Hervey) 'of as much wit and
honour as he left behind him in any part of it.' The wit was a family attribute, but the honour
was dubious: Carr was as deistical as any Maccaroni of the day, and, perhaps, more dissolute
than most: in one respect he has left behind him a celebrity which may be as questionable as
his wit, or his honour; he is reputed to be the father of Horace Walpole, and if we accept
presumptive evidence of the fact, the statement is clearly borne out, for in his wit, his indifference
to religion, to say the least, his satirical turn, his love of the world, and his contempt
of all that was great and good, he strongly resembles his reputed son; whilst the levity of
Lady Walpole's character, and Sir Robert's laxity and dissoluteness, do not furnish any reasonable
doubt to the statement made by Lady Louisa Stuart, in the introduction to Lord Wharncliffe's
'Life of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.' Carr, Lord Hervey, died early, and his half-brother succeeded
him in his title and expectations.

John, Lord Hervey, was educated first at Westminster School, under Dr. Freind, the friend of
Mrs. Montagu; thence he was removed to Clare Hall, Cambridge: he graduated as a nobleman, and
became M.A. in 1715.

At Cambridge Lord Hervey might have acquired some manly prowess; but he had a mother who was
as strange as the family into which she had married, and who was passionately devoted to her
son: she evinced her affection by never letting him have a chance of being like other English
boys. When his father was at Newmarket, Jack Hervey, as he was called, was to ride a race,
to please his father; but his mother could not risk her dear boy's safety, and the race was
won by a jockey. He was as precious and as fragile as porcelain: the elder brother's death
made the heir of the Herveys more valuable, more effeminate, and more controlled than ever
by his eccentric mother. A court was to be his hemisphere, and to that all his views, early
in life, tended. He went to Hanover to pay his court to George I.: Carr had done the same,
and had come back enchanted with George, the heir-presumptive, who made him one of the lords
of the bedchamber. Jack Hervey also returned full of enthusiasm for the Prince of Wales, afterwards
George II., and the Princess; and that visit influenced his destiny.

He now proposed making the grand tour, which comprised Paris, Germany, and Italy. But his mother
again interfered: she wept, she exhorted, she prevailed. Means were refused, and the stripling
was recalled to hang about the court, or to loiter at Ickworth, scribbling verses, and causing
his father uneasiness lest he should be too much of a poet, and too little of a public man.

Such was his youth: disappointed by not obtaining a commission in the Guards, he led a desultory
butterfly-like life; one day at Richmond with Queen Caroline, then Princess of Wales; another,
at Pope's villa, at Twickenham; sometimes in the House of Commons, in which he succeeded his
elder brother as member for Bury; and, at the period when he has been described as forming
one of the quartett in Queen Caroline's closet at St. James's, as vice-chamberlain to his partial
and royal patroness.

His early marriage with Mary Lepel, the beautiful maid of honour to Queen Caroline, insured
his felicity, though it did not curb his predilections for other ladies.

Henceforth Lord Hervey lived all the year round in what were then called lodgings, that is,
apartments appropriated to the royal household, or even to others, in St. James's, or at Richmond,
or at Windsor. In order fully to comprehend all the intimate relations which he had with the
court, it is necessary to present the reader with some account of the family of George II.
Five daughters had been the female issue of his majesty's marriage with Queen Caroline. Three
of these princesses, the three elder ones, had lived, during the life of George I., at St.
James's with their grandfather; who, irritated by the differences between him and his son,
then Prince of Wales, adopted that measure rather as showing his authority than from any affection
to the young princesses. It was, in truth, difficult to say which of these royal ladies was
the most unfortunate.

Anne, the eldest, had shown her spirit early in life whilst residing with George I.; she had
a proud, imperious nature, and her temper was, it must be owned, put to a severe test. The
only time that George I. did the English the honour of choosing one of the beauties of the
nation for his mistress, was during the last year of his reign. The object of his choice was
Anne Brett, the eldest daughter of the infamous Countess of Macclesfield by her second husband.
The neglect of Savage, the poet, her son, was merely one passage in the iniquitous life of
Lady Macclesfield. Endowed with singular taste and judgment, consulted by Colley Cibber on
every new play he produced, the mother of Savage was not only wholly destitute of all virtue,
but of all shame. One day, looking out of the window, she perceived a very handsome man assaulted
by some bailiffs who were going to arrest him: she paid his debt, released, and married him.
The hero of this story was Colonel Brett, the father of Anne Brett.

The child of such a mother was not likely to be even decently-respectable; and Anne was proud
of her disgraceful preeminence and of her disgusting and royal lover. She was dark, and her
flashing black eyes resembled those of a Spanish beauty. Ten years after the death of George
I., she found a husband in Sir William Leman, of Northall, and was announced, on that occasion,
as the half-sister of Richard Savage.

To the society of this woman, when at St. James's, as 'Mistress Brett,' the three princesses
were subjected: at the same time the Duchess of Kendal, the king's German mistress, occupied
other lodgings at St. James's.

Miss Brett was to be rewarded with the coronet of a countess for her degradation, the king
being absent on the occasion at Hanover; elated by her expectations, she took the liberty,
during his majesty's absence, of ordering a door to be broken out of her apartment into the
royal garden, where the princesses walked. The Princess Anne, not deigning to associate with
her, commanded that it should be forthwith closed. Miss Brett imperiously reversed that order.
In the midst of the affair, the king died suddenly, and Anne Brett's reign was over, and her
influence soon as much forgotten as if she had never existed. The Princess Anne was pining
in the dulness of her royal home, when a marriage with the Prince of Orange, was proposed for
the consideration of his parents. It was a miserable match as well as a miserable prospect,
for the prince's revenue amounted to no more than £12,000 a year; and the state and pomp to
which the Princess Royal had been accustomed could not be contemplated on so small a fortune.
It was still worse in point of that poor consideration, happiness. The Prince of Orange was
both deformed and disgusting in his person, though his face was sensible in expression; and
if he inspired one idea more strongly than another when he appeared in his uniform and cocked
hat, and spoke bad French, or worse English, it was that of seeing before one a dressed-up baboon.

It was a bitter cup for the princess to drink, but she drank it: she reflected that it might
be the only way of quitting a court where, in case of her father's death, she would be dependent
on her brother Frederick, or on that weak prince's strong-minded wife. So she consented, and
took the dwarf; and that consent was regarded by a grateful people, and by all good courtiers,
as a sacrifice for the sake of Protestant principles, the House of Orange being, par excellence,
at the head of the orthodox dynasties in Europe. A dowry of £80,000 was forthwith granted by
an admiring Commons--just double what had ever been given before. That sum was happily lying
in the exchequer, being the purchase-money of some lands in St. Christopher's which had lately
been sold; and King George was thankful to get rid of a daughter whose haughtiness gave him
trouble. In person, too, the princess royal was not very ornamental to the Court. She was ill-made,
with a propensity to grow fat; her complexion, otherwise very fine, was marked with the small-pox;
she had, however, a lively, clean look--one of her chief beauties--and a certain royalty of manner.

The Princess Amelia died, as the world thought, single, but consoled herself with various love
flirtations. The Duke of Newcastle made love to her, but her affections were centred on the
Duke of Grafton, to whom she was privately married, as is confidently asserted.

The Princess Caroline was the darling of her family. Even the king relied on her truth. When
there was any dispute, he used to say, 'Send for Caroline; she will tell us the right story.'

Her fate had its clouds. Amiable, gentle, of unbounded charity, with strong affections, which
were not suffered to flow in a legitimate channel, she became devotedly attached to Lord Hervey:
her heart was bound up in him; his death drove her into a permanent retreat from the world.
No debasing connection existed between them; but it is misery, it is sin enough to love another
woman's husband--and that sin, that misery, was the lot of the royal and otherwise virtuous
Caroline.

The Princess Mary, another victim to conventionalities, was united to Frederick, Landgrave
of Hesse Cassel; a barbarian, from whom she escaped, whenever she could, to come, with a bleeding
heart, to her English home. She was, even Horace Walpole allows, 'of the softest, mildest temper
in the world,' and fondly beloved by her sister Caroline, and by the 'Butcher of Culloden,'
William, Duke of Cumberland.

Louisa became Queen of Denmark in 1746, after some years' marriage to the Crown Prince. 'We
are lucky,' Horace Walpole writes on that occasion, 'in the death of kings.'

The two princesses who were still under the paternal roof were contrasts. Caroline was a constant
invalid, gentle, sincere, unambitious, devoted to her mother, whose death nearly killed her.
Amelia affected popularity, and assumed the esprit fort--was fond of meddling in politics,
and after the death of her mother, joined the Bedford faction, in opposition to her father.
But both these princesses were outwardly submissive when Lord Hervey became the Queen's chamberlain.

The evenings at St. James's were spent in the same way as those at Kensington.

Quadrille formed her majesty's pastime, and, whilst Lord Hervey played pools of cribbage with
the Princess Caroline and the maids of honour, the Duke of Cumberland amused himself and the
Princess Amelia at 'buffet.' On Mondays and Fridays there were drawing-rooms held; and these
receptions took place, very wisely, in the evening.

Beneath all the show of gaiety and the freezing ceremony of those stately occasions, there
was in that court as much misery as family dissensions, or, to speak accurately, family hatreds
can engender. Endless jealousies, which seem to us as frivolous as they were rabid; and contentions,
of which even the origin is still unexplained, had long severed the queen from her eldest son.
George II. had always loved his mother: his affection for the unhappy Sophia Dorothea was one
of the very few traits of goodness in a character utterly vulgar, sensual, and entirely selfish.
His son, Frederick, Prince of Wales, on the other hand, hated his mother. He loved neither
of his parents: but the queen had the preeminence in his aversion.

The king, during the year 1736, was at Hanover. His return was announced, but under circumstances
of danger. A tremendous storm arose just as he was prepared to embark at Helvoetsluys. All
London was on the look out, weather-cocks were watched; tides, winds, and moons formed the
only subjects of conversation; but no one of his majesty's subjects was so demonstrative as
the Prince of Wales, and his cheerfulness, and his triumph even, on the occasion, were of course
resentfully heard of by the queen.

During the storm, when anxiety had almost amounted to fever, Lord Hervey dined with Sir Robert
Walpole. Their conversation naturally turned on the state of affairs, prospectively. Sir Robert
called the prince a 'poor, weak, irresolute, false, lying, contemptible wretch.' Lord Hervey
did not defend him, but suggested that Frederick, in case of his father's death, might be more
influenced by the queen than he had hitherto been. 'Zounds, my lord!' interrupted Sir Robert,
'he would tear the flesh off her bones with red-hot irons sooner! The distinctions she shows
to you, too, I believe, would not be forgotten. Then the notion he has of his great riches,
and the desire he has of fingering them, would make him pinch her, and pinch her again, in
order to make her buy her ease, till she had not a groat left.'

What a picture of a heartless and selfish character! The next day the queen sent for Lord Hervey,
to ask him if he knew the particulars of a great dinner which the prince had given to the lord
mayor the previous day, whilst the whole country, and the court in particular, was trembling
for the safety of the king, his father. Lord Hervey told her that the prince's speech at the
dinner was the most ingratiating piece of popularity ever heard; the healths, of course, as
usual. 'Heavens!' cried the queen: 'popularity always makes me sick, but Fritz's popularity
makes me vomit! I hear that yesterday, on the prince's side of the House, they talked of the
king's being cast away with the same sang froid as you would talk of an overturn; and that
my good son strutted about as if he had been already king. Did you mark the airs with which
he came into my drawing-room in the morning? though he does not think fit to honour me with
his presence, or ennui me with his wife's, of an evening? I felt something here in my throat
that swelled and half-choked me.'

Poor Queen Caroline! with such a son, and such a husband, she must have been possessed of a
more than usual share of German imperturbability to sustain her cheerfulness, writhing, as
she often was, under the pangs of a long-concealed disorder, of which eventually she died.
Even on the occasion of the king's return in time to spend his birthday in England, the queen's
temper had been sorely tried. Nothing had ever vexed her more than the king's admiration for
Amelia Sophia Walmoden, who, after the death of Caroline, was created Countess of Yarmouth.
Madame Walmoden had been a reigning belle among the married women at Hanover, when George II.
visited that country in 1735. Not that her majesty's affections were wounded; it was her pride
that was hurt by the idea that people would think that this Hanoverian lady had more influence
than she had. In other respects the king's absence was a relief: she had the éclat of the regency;
she had the comfort of having the hours which her royal torment decreed were to be passed in
amusing his dulness, to herself; she was free from his 'quotidian sallies of temper, which,'
as Lord Hervey relates, 'let it be charged by what hand it would, used always to discharge
its hottest fire, on some pretence or other, upon her.'

It is quite true that from the first dawn of his preference for Madame Walmoden, the king wrote
circumstantial letters of fifty or sixty pages to the queen, informing her of every stage of
the affair; the queen, in reply, saying that she was only one woman, and an old woman, and
adding, 'that he might love more and younger women.' In return, the king wrote, 'You must love
the Walmoden, for she loves you;' a civil insult, which he accompanied with so minute a description
of his new favourite, that the queen, had she been a painter, might have drawn her portrait
at a hundred miles' distance.

The queen, subservient as she seemed, felt the humiliation. Such was the debased nature of
George II. that he not only wrote letters unworthy of a man to write, and unfit for a woman
to read, to his wife, but he desired her to show them to Sir Robert Walpole. He used to 'tag
several paragraphs,' as Lord Hervey expresses it, with these words, 'Montrez ceci, et consultez
la-dessus de gros homme,' meaning Sir Robert. But this was only a portion of the disgusting
disclosures made by the vulgar licentious monarch to his too degraded consort.

In the bitterness of her mortification the queen consulted Lord Hervey and Sir Robert as to
the possibility of her losing her influence, should she resent the king's delay in returning.
They agreed, that her taking the 'fière turn' would ruin her with her royal consort; Sir Robert
adding, that if he had a mind to flatter her into her ruin, he might talk to her as if she
were twenty-five, and try to make her imagine that she could bring the king back by the apprehension
of losing her affection. He said it was now too late in her life to try new methods; she must
persist in the soothing, coaxing, submissive arts which had been practised with success, and
even press his majesty to bring this woman to England! 'He taught her,' says Lord Hervey, 'this
hard lesson till she wept.' Nevertheless, the queen expressed her gratitude to the minister
for his advice. 'My lord,' said Walpole to Hervey, 'she laid her thanks on me so thick that
I found I had gone too far, for I am never so much afraid of her rebukes as of her commendations.'

Such was the state of affairs between this singular couple. Nevertheless, the queen, not from
attachment to the king, but from the horror she had of her son's reigning, felt such fears
of the prince's succeeding to the throne as she could hardly express. He would, she was convinced,
do all he could to ruin and injure her in case of his accession to the throne.

The consolation of such a friend as Lord Hervey can easily be conceived, when he told her majesty
that he had resolved, in case the king had been lost at sea, to have retired from her service,
in order to prevent any jealousy or irritation that might arise from his supposed influence
with her majesty. The queen stopped him short, and said, 'No, my lord, I should never have
suffered that; you are one of the greatest pleasures of my life. But did I love you less than
I do, or less like to have you about me, I should look upon the suffering you to be taken from
me as such a meanness and baseness that you should not have stirred an inch from me. You,'
she added, 'should have gone with me to Somerset House;' (which was hers in case of the king's
death). She then told him she should have begged Sir Robert Walpole on her knees not to have
sent in his resignation.

The animosity of the Prince of Wales to Lord Hervey augmented, there can be no doubt, his unnatural
aversion to the queen, an aversion which he evinced early in life. There was a beautiful, giddy
maid of honour, who attracted not only the attention of Frederick, but the rival attentions
of other suitors, and among them, the most favoured was said to be Lord Hervey, notwithstanding
that he had then been for some years the husband of one of the loveliest ornaments of the court,
the sensible and virtuous Mary Lepel. Miss Vane became eventually the avowed favourite of the
prince, and after giving birth to a son, who was christened Fitz-Frederick Vane, and who died
in 1736, his unhappy mother died a few months afterwards. It is melancholy to read a letter
from Lady Hervey to Mrs. Howard, portraying the frolic and levity of this once joyous creature,
among the other maids of honour; and her strictures show at once the unrefined nature of the
pranks in which they indulged, and her once sobriety of demeanour.

She speaks, on one occasion, in which, however, Miss Vane did not share the nocturnal diversion,
of some of the maids of honour being out in the winter all night in the gardens at Kensington--opening
and rattling the windows, and trying to frighten people out of their wits; and she gives Mrs.
Howard a hint that the queen ought to be informed of the way in which her young attendants
amused themselves. After levities such as these, it is not surprising to find poor Miss Vane
writing to Mrs. Howard, with complaints that she was unjustly aspersed, and referring to her
relatives, Lady Betty Nightingale and Lady Hewet, in testimony of the falsehood of reports
which, unhappily, the event verified.

The prince, however, never forgave Lord Hervey for being his rival with Miss Vane, nor his
mother for her favours to Lord Hervey. In vain did the queen endeavour to reconcile Fritz,
as she called him, to his father;--nothing could be done in a case where the one was all dogged
selfishness; and where the other, the idol of the opposition party, as the prince had ever
been, so legère de tête as to swallow all the adulation offered to him, and to believe himself
a demigod. 'The queen's dread of a rival,' Horace Walpole remarks, 'was a feminine weakness:
the behaviour of her eldest son was a real thorn.' Some time before his marriage to a princess
who was supposed to augment his hatred of his mother, Frederick of Wales had contemplated an
act of disobedience. Soon after his arrival in England, Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, hearing
that he was in want of money, had sent to offer him her granddaughter, Lady Diana Spencer,
with a fortune of £100,000. The duchess never forgave either Walpole or the royal family, and
took an early opportunity of insulting the latter. When the Prince of Orange came over to marry
the Princess Royal, a sort of boarded gallery was erected from the windows of the great drawing-room
of the palace, and was constructed so as to cross the garden to the Lutheran chapel in the
Friary, where the duchess lived. The Prince of Orange being ill, went to Bath, and the marriage
was delayed for some weeks. Meantime the widows of Marlborough House were darkened by the gallery.
'I wonder,' cried the old duchess, 'when my neighbour George will take away his orange-chest!'
The structure, with its pent-house roof, really resembling an orange-chest.

Mary Lepel, Lady Hervey, whose attractions, great as they were, proved insufficient to rivet
the exclusive admiration of the accomplished Hervey, had become his wife in 1720, some time
before her husband had been completely enthralled with the gilded prison doors of a court.
She was endowed with that intellectual beauty calculated to attract a man of talent: she was
highly educated, of great talent; possessed of savoir faire, infinite good temper, and a strict
sense of duty. She also derived from her father, Brigadier Lepel, who was of an ancient family
in Sark, a considerable fortune. Good and correct as she was, Lady Hervey viewed with a fashionable
composure the various intimacies formed during the course of their married life by his lordship.

The fact is, that the aim of both was not so much to insure their domestic felicity as to gratify
their ambition. Probably they were disappointed in both these aims--certainly in one of them;
talented, indefatigable, popular, lively, and courteous, Lord Hervey, in the House of Commons,
advocated in vain, in brilliant orations, the measures of Walpole. Twelve years, fourteen years
elapsed, and he was left in the somewhat subordinate position of vice-chamberlain, in spite
of that high order of talents which he possessed, and which would have been displayed to advantage
in a graver scene. The fact has been explained: the queen could not do without him; she confided
in him; her daughter loved him; and his influence in that court was too powerful for Walpole
to dispense with an aid so valuable to his own plans. Some episodes in a life thus frittered
away, until, too late, promotion came, alleviated his existence, and gave his wife only a passing
uneasiness, if even indeed they imparted a pang.

One of these was his dangerous passion for Miss Vane; another, his platonic attachment to Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu.

Whilst he lived on the terms with his wife which is described even by the French as being a
'Ménage de Paris,' Lord Hervey, found in another quarter the sympathies which, as a husband,
he was too well-bred to require. It is probable that he always admired his wife more than any
other person, for she had qualities that were quite congenial to the tastes of a wit and a
beau in those times. Lady Hervey was not only singularly captivating, young, gay, and handsome;
but a complete model also of the polished, courteous, high-bred woman of fashion. Her manners
are said by Lady Louisa Stuart to have 'had a foreign tinge, which some called affected; but
they were gentle, easy, and altogether exquisitely pleasing.' She was in secret a Jacobite--and
resembled in that respect most of the fine ladies in Great Britain. Whiggery and Walpolism
were vulgar: it was haut ton to take offence when James II. was anathematized, and quite good
taste to hint that some people wished well to the Chevalier's attempts: and this way of speaking
owed its fashion probably to Frederick of Wales, whose interest in Flora Macdonald, and whose
concern for the exiled family, were among the few amiable traits of his disposition. Perhaps
they arose from a wish to plague his parents, rather than from a greatness of character foreign
to this prince.

Lady Hervey was in the bloom of youth, Lady Mary in the zenith of her age, when they became
rivals: Lady Mary had once excited the jealousy of Queen Caroline when Princess of Wales.

'How becomingly Lady Mary is dressed to-night,' whispered George II. to his wife, whom he had
called up from the card-table to impart to her that important conviction. 'Lady Mary always
dresses well,' was the cold and curt reply.

Lord Hervey had been married about seven years when Lady Mary Wortley Montagu re-appeared at
the court of Queen Caroline, after her long residence in Turkey. Lord Hervey was thirty-three
years of age; Lady Mary was verging on forty. She was still a pretty woman, with a piquant,
neat-featured face; which does not seem to have done any justice to a mind at once masculine
and sensitive, nor to a heart capable of benevolence--capable of strong attachments, and of
bitter hatred.

Like Lady Hervey, she lived with her husband on well-bred terms: there existed no quarrel between
them; no avowed ground of coldness; it was the icy boundary of frozen feeling that severed
them; the sure and lasting though polite destroyer of all bonds, indifference. Lady Mary was
full of repartee, of poetry, of anecdote, and was not averse to admiration; but she was essentially
a woman of common sense, of views enlarged by travel, and of ostensibly good principles. A
woman of delicacy was not to be found in those days, any more than other productions of the
nineteenth century: a telegraphic message would have been almost as startling to a courtly
ear as the refusal of a fine lady to suffer a double entendre. Lady Mary was above all scruples,
and Lord Hervey, who had lived too long with George II. and his queen to have the moral sense
in her perfection, liked her all the better for her courage--her merry, indelicate jokes, and
her putting things down by their right names, on which Lady Mary plumed herself: she was what
they term in the north of England, 'Emancipated.' They formed an old acquaintance with a confidential,
if not a tender friendship; and that their intimacy was unpleasant to Lady Hervey was proved
by her refusal--when, after the grave had closed over Lord Hervey, late in life, Lady Mary
ill, and broken down by age, returned to die in England--to resume an acquaintance which had
been a painful one to her.

Lord Hervey was a martyr to illness of an epileptic character; and Lady Mary gave him her sympathy.
She was somewhat of a doctor--and being older than her friend, may have had the art of soothing
sufferings, which were the worse because they were concealed. Whilst he writhed in pain, he
was obliged to give vent to his agony by alleging that an attack of cramp bent him double:
yet he lived by rule--a rule harder to adhere to than that of the most conscientious homoeopath
in the present day. In the midst of court gaieties and the duties of office, he thus wrote
to Dr. Cheyne:--

... 'To let you know that I continue one of your most pious votaries, and to tell you the method
I am in. In the first place, I never take wine nor malt drink, nor any liquid but water and
milk-tea; in the next, I eat no meat but the whitest, youngest, and tenderest, nine times in
ten nothing but chicken, and never more than the quantity of a small one at a meal. I seldom
eat any supper, but if any, nothing absolutely but bread and water; two days in the week I
eat no flesh; my breakfast is dry biscuit, not sweet, and green tea; I have left off butter
as bilious; I eat no salt, nor any sauce but bread-sauce.'

Among the most cherished relaxations of the royal household were visits to Twickenham, whilst
the court was at Richmond. The River Thames, which has borne on its waves so much misery in
olden times--which was the highway from the Star-chamber to the tower--which has been belaboured
in our days with so much wealth, and sullied with so much impurity; that river, whose current
is one hour rich as the stream of a gold river, the next hour, foul as the pestilent churchyard,--was
then, especially between Richmond and Teddington, a glassy, placid stream, reflecting on its
margin the chestnut-trees of stately Ham, and the reeds and wild flowers which grew undisturbed
in the fertile meadows of Petersham.

Lord Hervey, with the ladies of the court, Mrs. Howard as their chaperon, delighted in being
wafted to that village, so rich in names which give to Twickenham undying associations with
the departed great. Sometimes the effeminate valetudinarian, Hervey, was content to attend
the Princess Caroline to Marble Hill only, a villa residence built by George II. for Mrs. Howard,
and often referred to in the correspondence of that period. Sometimes the royal barge, with
its rowers in scarlet jackets, was seen conveying the gay party; ladies in slouched hats, pointed
over fair brows in front, with a fold of sarsenet round them, terminated in a long bow and
ends behind--with deep falling mantles over dresses never cognizant of crinoline: gentlemen,
with cocked-hats, their bag-wigs and ties appearing behind; and beneath their puce-coloured
coats, delicate silk tights and gossamer stockings were visible, as they trod the mossy lawn
of the Palace Gardens at Richmond, or, followed by a tiny greyhound, prepared for the lazy
pleasures of the day.

Sometimes the visit was private; the sickly Princess Caroline had a fancy to make one of the
group who are bound to Pope's villa. Twickenham, where that great little man had, since 1715,
established himself, was pronounced by Lord Bacon to be the finest place in the world for study.
'Let Twitnam Park,' he wrote to his steward, Thomas Bushell, 'which I sold in my younger days,
be purchased, if possible, for a residence for such deserving persons to study in, (since I
experimentally found the situation of that place much convenient for the trial of my philosophical
conclusions)--expressed in a paper sealed, to the trust--which I myself had put in practice
and settled the same by act of parliament, if the vicissitudes of fortune had not intervened
and prevented me.'

Twickenham continued, long after Bacon had penned this injunction, to be the retreat of the
poet, the statesman, the scholar; the haven where the retired actress, and broken novelist
found peace; the abode of Henry Fielding, who lived in one of the back-streets; the temporary
refuge, from the world of London, of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and the life-long home of Pope.

Let us picture to ourselves a visit from the princess to Pope's villa:--As the barge, following
the gentle bendings of the river, nears Twickenham, a richer green, a summer brightness, indicates
it is approaching that spot of which even Bishop Warburton says that 'the beauty of the owner's
poetic genius appeared to as much advantage in the disposition of these romantic materials
as in any of his best-contrived poems.' And the loved toil which formed the quincunx, which
perforated and extended the grotto until it extended across the road to a garden on the opposite
side--the toil which showed the gentler parts of Pope's better nature--has been respected,
and its effects preserved. The enamelled lawn, green as no other grass save that by the Thames
side is green, was swept until late years by the light boughs of the famed willow. Every memorial
of the bard was treasured by the gracious hands into which, after 1744, the classic spot fell--those
of Sir William Stanhope. Let us picture to ourselves the poet as a host.

As the barge is moored close to the low steps which lead up from the river to the villa, a
diminutive figure, then in its prime, (if prime it ever had), is seen moving impatiently forward.
By that young-old face, with its large lucid speaking eyes that light it up, as does a rushlight
in a cavern--by that twisted figure with its emaciated legs--by the large, sensible mouth,
the pointed, marked, well-defined nose--by the wig, or hair pushed off in masses from the broad
forehead and falling behind in tresses--by the dress, that loose, single-breasted black coat--by
the cambric band and plaited shirt, without a frill, but fine and white, for the poor poet
has taken infinite pains that day in self-adornment--by the delicate ruffle on that large thin
hand, and still more by the clear, most musical voice which is heard welcoming his royal and
noble guests, as he stands bowing low to the Princess Caroline, and bending to kiss hands--by
that voice which gained him more especially the name of the little nightingale--is Pope at
once recognized, and Pope in the perfection of his days, in the very zenith of his fame.

One would gladly have been a sprite to listen from some twig of that then stripling willow
which the poet had planted with his own hand, to talk of those who chatted for a while under
its shade, before they went in-doors to an elegant dinner at the usual hour of twelve. How
delightful to hear, unseen, the repartees of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, who comes down, it
is natural to conclude, from her villa near to that of Pope. How fine a study might one not
draw of the fine gentleman and the wit in Lord Hervey, as he is commanded by the gentle Princess
Caroline to sit on her right hand; but his heart is across the table, with Lady Mary! How amusing
to observe the dainty but not sumptuous repast contrived with Pope's exquisite taste, but regulated
by his habitual economy--for his late father, a worthy Jacobite hatter, erst in the Strand,
disdained to invest the fortune he had amassed, from the extensive sale of cocked-hats, in
the Funds, over which an Hanoverian stranger ruled; but had lived on his capital of £20,000
(as spendthrifts do, without either moral, religious, or political reasons), as long as it
lasted him; yet he was no spendthrift. Let us look, therefore, with a liberal eye, noting,
as we stand, how that fortune, in league with nature, who made the poet crooked, had maimed
two of his fingers, such time as, passing a bridge, the poor little poet was overturned into
the river, and he would have been drowned, had not the postilion broken the coach window and
dragged the tiny body through the aperture. We mark, however, that he generally contrives to
hide this defect, as he would fain have hidden every other, from the lynx eyes of Lady Mary,
who knows him, however, thoroughly, and reads every line of that poor little heart of his,
enamoured of her as it was.

Then the conversation! How gladly would we catch here some drops of what must have been the
very essence of small-talk, and small-talk is the only thing fit for early dinners! Our host
is noted for his easy address, his engaging manners, his delicacy, politeness, and a certain
tact he had of showing every guest that he was welcome in the choicest expressions and most
elegant terms. Then Lady Mary! how brilliant is her slightest turn! how she banters Pope--how
she gives double entendre for double entendre to Hervey! How sensible, yet how gay is all she
says; how bright, how cutting, yet how polished is the équivoque of the witty, high-bred Hervey!
He is happy that day--away from the coarse, passionate king, whom he hated with a hatred that
burns itself out in his lordship's 'Memoirs;' away from the somewhat exacting and pitiable
queen; away from the hated Pelham, and the rival Grafton.

And conversation never flags when all, more or less, are congenial; when all are well-informed,
well-bred and resolved to please. Yet there is a canker in that whole assembly; that canker
is a want of confidence; no one trusts the other; Lady Mary's encouragement of Hervey surprises
and shocks the Princess Caroline, who loves him secretly; Hervey's attentions to the queen
of letters scandalizes Pope, who soon afterwards makes a declaration to Lady Mary. Pope writhes
under a lash just held over him by Lady Mary's hand. Hervey feels that the poet, though all
suavity, is ready to demolish him at any moment, if he can; and the only really happy and complacent
person of the whole party is, perhaps, Pope's old mother, who sits in the room next to that
occupied for dinner, industriously spinning.

This happy state of things came, however, as is often the case, in close intimacies, to a painful
conclusion. There was too little reality, too little earnestness of feeling, for the friendship
between Pope and Lady Mary, including Lord Hervey, to last long. His lordship had his affectations,
and his effeminate nicety was proverbial. One day being asked at dinner if he would take some
beef, he is reported to have answered, 'Beef? oh no! faugh! don't you know I never eat beef,
nor horse, nor curry, nor any of those things?' Poor man! it was probably a pleasant way of
turning off what he may have deemed an assault on a digestion that could hardly conquer any
solid food. This affectation offended Lady Mary, whose mot, that there were three species,
'Men, women, and Herveys'--implies a perfect perception of the eccentricities even of her gifted
friend, Lord Hervey, whose mother's friend she had been, and the object of whose admiration
she undoubtedly was.

Pope, who was the most irritable of men, never forgot or forgave even the most trifling offence.
Lady Bolingbroke truly said of him that he played the politician about cabbages and salads,
and everybody agrees that he could hardly tolerate the wit that was more successful than his
own. It was about the year 1725, that he began to hate Lord Hervey with such a hatred as only
he could feel; it was unmitigated by a single touch of generosity or of compassion. Pope afterwards
owned that his acquaintance with Lady Mary and with Hervey was discontinued, merely because
they had too much wit for him. Towards the latter end of 1732, 'The Imitation of the Second
Satire of the First Book of Horace,' appeared, and in it Pope attacked Lady Mary with the grossest
and most indecent couplet ever printed: she was called Sappho, and Hervey, Lord Fanny; and
all the world knew the characters at once.

In retaliation for this satire, appeared 'Verses to the Imitator of Horace;' said to have been
the joint production of Lord Hervey and Lady Mary. This was followed by a piece entitled 'Letter
from a Nobleman at Hampton Court to a Doctor of Divinity.' To this composition Lord Hervey,
its sole author, added these lines, by way, as it seems, of extenuation.

Pope's first reply was in a prose letter, on which Dr. Johnson has passed a condemnation. 'It
exhibits,' he says, 'nothing but tedious malignity.' But he was partial to the Herveys, Thomas
and Henry Hervey, Lord Hervey's brothers, having been kind to him--'If you call a dog Hervey,'
he said to Boswell, 'I shall love him.'

Next came the epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot, in which every infirmity and peculiarity of Hervey
are handed down in calm, cruel irony, and polished verses, to posterity. The verses are almost
too disgusting to be revived in an age which disclaims scurrility. After the most personal
rancorous invective, he thus writes of Lord Hervey's conversation:--

    His wit all see-saw between this and that--
    Now high, now low--now master up, now miss--
    And he himself one vile antithesis.

The quarrel with Pope was not the only attack which Lord Hervey had to encounter. Among the
most zealous of his foes was Pulteney, afterwards Lord Bath, the rival of Sir Robert Walpole,
and the confederate with Bolingbroke in opposing that minister. The 'Craftsman,' contained
an attack on Pulteney, written, with great ability, by Hervey. It provoked a Reply from Pulteney.
In this composition he spoke of Hervey as 'a thing below contempt,' and ridiculed his personal
appearance in the grossest terms. A duel was the result, the parties meeting behind Arlington
House, in Piccadilly, where Mr. Pulteney had the satisfaction of almost running Lord Hervey
through with his sword. Luckily the poor man slipped down, so the blow was evaded, and the
seconds interfered: Mr. Pulteney then embraced Lord Hervey, and expressing his regret for their
quarrel, declared that he would never again, either in speech or writing, attack his lordship.
Lord Hervey only bowed, in silence; and thus they parted.

The queen having observed what an alteration in the palace Lord Hervey's death would cause,
he said he could guess how it would be, and he produced 'The Death of Lord Hervey; or, a Morning
at Court; a Drama:' the idea being taken it is thought, from Swift's verses on his own death,
of which Hervey might have seen a surreptitious copy. The following scene will give some idea
of the plot and structure of this amusing little piece. The part allotted to the Princess Caroline
is in unison with the idea prevalent of her attachment to Lord Hervey:--

ACT I.

     SCENE: The Queen's Gallery. The time, nine in the
     morning.

     Enter the QUEEN, PRINCESS EMILY, PRINCESS CAROLINE,
     followed by LORD LIFFORD, and MRS. PURCEL.

     Queen. Mon Dieu, quelle chaleur! en vérité on étouffe. Pray
     open a little those windows.

     Lord Lifford. Hasa your Majesty heara de news?

     Queen. What news, my dear Lord?

     Lord Lifford. Dat my Lord Hervey, as he was coming last night
     to tone, was rob and murdered by highwaymen and tron in a
     ditch.

     Princess Caroline. Eh! grand Dieu!

     Queen [striking her hand upon her knee.] Comment est-il
     véritablement mort? Purcel, my angel, shall I not have a little
     breakfast?

     Mrs. Purcel. What would your Majesty please to have?

     Queen. A little chocolate, my soul, if you give me leave, and a
     little sour cream, and some fruit.      [Exit MRS. PURCEL.

     Queen [to Lord Lifford.] Eh bien! my Lord Lifford, dites-nous
     un peu comment cela est arrivé. I cannot imagine what he had to
     do to be putting his nose there. Seulement pour un sot voyage
     avec ce petit mousse, eh bien?

     Lord Lifford. Madame, on scait quelque chose de celui de Mon.
     Maran, qui d'abord qu'il a vu les voleurs s'est enfin venu à
     grand galoppe à Londres, and after dat a waggoner take up the
     body and put it in his cart.

     Queen. [to PRINCESS EMILY.] Are you not ashamed,
     Amalie, to laugh?

     Princess Emily. I only laughed at the cart, mamma.

     Queen. Oh! that is a very fade plaisanterie.

     Princess Emily. But if I may say it, mamma, I am not very
     sorry.

     Queen. Oh! fie donc! Eh bien! my Lord Lifford! My God! where is
     this chocolate, Purcel?

The wretched Queen Caroline had, during fourteen years, concealed from every one, except Lady
Sundon, an incurable disorder, that of hernia. In November (1737) she was attacked with what
we should now call English cholera. Dr. Tessier, her house-physician, was called in, and gave
her Daffey's elixir, which was not likely to afford any relief to the deep-seated cause of
her sufferings. She held a drawing-room that night for the last time, and played at cards,
even cheerfully. At length she whispered to Lord Hervey, 'I am not able to entertain people.'
'For heaven's sake, madam,' was the reply, 'go to your room: would to heaven the king would
leave off talking of the Dragon of Wantley, and release you!' The Dragon of Wantley was a burlesque
on the Italian opera, by Henry Carey, and was the theme of the fashionable world.

The next day the queen was in fearful agony, very hot, and willing to take anything proposed.
Still she did not, even to Lord Hervey, avow the real cause of her illness. None of the most
learned court physicians, neither Mead nor Wilmot, were called in. Lord Hervey sat by the queen's
bed-side, and tried to soothe her, whilst the Princess Caroline joined in begging him to give
her mother something to relieve her agony. At length, in utter ignorance of the case, it was
proposed to give her some snakeroot, a stimulant, and, at the same time, Sir Walter Raleigh's
cordial; so singular was it thus to find that great mind still influencing a court. It was
that very medicine which was administered by Queen Anne of Denmark, however, to Prince Henry;
that medicine which Raleigh said, 'would cure him, or any other, of a disease, except in case
of poison.'

However, Ranby, house-surgeon to the king, and a favourite of Lord Hervey's, assuring him that
a cordial with this name or that name was mere quackery, some usquebaugh was given instead,
but was rejected by the queen soon afterwards. At last Raleigh's cordial was administered,
but also rejected about an hour afterwards. Her fever, after taking Raleigh's cordial, was
so much increased, that she was ordered instantly to be bled.

Then, even, the queen never disclosed the fact that could alone dictate the course to be pursued.
George II., with more feeling than judgment, slept on the outside of the queen's bed all that
night; so that the unhappy invalid could get no rest, nor change her position, not daring to
irritate the king's temper.

The next day the queen said touchingly to her gentle, affectionate daughter, herself in declining
health, 'Poor Caroline! you are very ill, too: we shall soon meet again in another place.'

Meantime, though the queen declared to every one that she was sure nothing could save her,
it was resolved to hold a levée. The foreign ministers were to come to court, and the king,
in the midst of his real grief, did not forget to send word to his pages to be sure to have
his last new ruffles sewed on the shirt he was to put on that day; a trifle which often, as
Lord Hervey remarks, shows more of the real character than events of importance, from which
one frequently knows no more of a person's state of mind than one does of his natural gait
from his dancing.

Lady Sundon was, meantime, ill at Bath, so that the queen's secret rested alone in her own
heart. 'I have an ill,' she said, one evening, to her daughter Caroline, 'that nobody knows
of.' Still, neither the princess nor Lord Hervey could guess at the full meaning of that sad
assertion.

The famous Sir Hans Sloane was then called in; but no remedy except large and repeated bleedings
were suggested, and blisters were put on her legs. There seems to have been no means left untried
by the faculty to hasten the catastrophe--thus working in the dark.

The king now sat up with her whom he had so cruelly wounded in every nice feeling. On being
asked, by Lord Hervey, what was to be done in case the Prince of Wales should come to inquire
after the queen, he answered in the following terms, worthy of his ancestry--worthy of himself.
It is difficult to say which was the most painful scene, that in the chamber where the queen
lay in agony, or without, where the curse of family dissensions came like a ghoul to hover
near the bed of death, and to gloat over the royal corpse. This was the royal dictum:--'If
the puppy should, in one of his impertinent airs of duty and affection, dare to come to St.
James's, I order you to go to the scoundrel, and tell him I wonder at his impudence for daring
to come here; that he has my orders already, and knows my pleasure, and bid him go about his
business; for his poor mother is not in a condition to see him act his false, whining, cringing
tricks now, nor am I in a humour to bear with his impertinence; and bid him trouble me with
no more messages, but get out of my house.'

In the evening, whilst Lord Hervey sat at tea in the queen's outer apartment with the Duke
of Cumberland, a page came to the duke to speak to the prince in the passage. It was to prefer
a request to see his mother. This message was conveyed by Lord Hervey to the king, whose reply
was uttered in the most vehement rage possible. 'This,' said he, 'is like one of his scoundrel
tricks; it is just of a piece with his kneeling down in the dirt before the mob to kiss her
hand at the coach door when she came home from Hampton Court to see the Princess, though he
had not spoken one word to her during her whole visit. I always hated the rascal, but now I
hate him worse than ever. He wants to come and insult his poor dying mother; but she shall
not see him: you have heard her, and all my daughters have heard her, very often this year
at Hampton Court desire me if she should be ill, and out of her senses, that I would never
let him come near her; and whilst she had her senses she was sure she should never desire it.
No, no! he shall not come and act any of his silly plays here.'

In the afternoon the queen said to the king, she wondered the Griff, a nickname she gave to
the prince, had not sent to inquire after her yet; it would be so like one of his paroitres.
'Sooner or later,' she added, 'I am sure we shall be plagued with some message of that sort,
because he will think it will have a good air in the world to ask to see me; and, perhaps,
hopes I shall be fool enough to let him come, and give him the pleasure of seeing the last
breath go out of my body, by which means he would have the joy of knowing I was dead five minutes
sooner than he could know it in Pall Mall.'

She afterwards declared that nothing would induce her to see him except the king's absolute
commands. 'Therefore, if I grow worse,' she said, 'and should I be weak enough to talk of seeing
him, I beg you, sir, to conclude that I doat--or rave.'

The king, who had long since guessed at the queen's disease, urged her now to permit him to
name it to her physicians. She begged him not to do so; and for the first time, and the last,
the unhappy woman spoke peevishly and warmly. Then Ranby, the house-surgeon, who had by this
time discovered the truth, said, 'There is no more time to be lost; your majesty has concealed
the truth too long: I beg another surgeon may be called in immediately.'

The queen, who had, in her passion, started up in her bed, lay down again, turned her head
on the other side, and, as the king told Lord Hervey, 'shed the only tear he ever saw her shed
whilst she was ill.'

At length, too late, other and more sensible means were resorted to: but the queen's strength
was failing fast. It must have been a strange scene in that chamber of death. Much as the king
really grieved for the queen's state, he was still sufficiently collected to grieve also lest
Richmond Lodge, which was settled on the queen, should go to the hated Griff:[22] and he actually
sent Lord Hervey to the lord chancellor to inquire about that point. It was decided that the
queen could make a will, so the king informed her of his inquiries, in order to set her mind
at ease, and to assure her it was impossible that the prince could in any way benefit pecuniarily
from her death. The Princess Emily now sat up with her mother. The king went to bed. The Princess
Caroline slept on a couch in the antechamber, and Lord Hervey lay on a mattress on the floor
at the foot of the Princess Caroline's couch.

On the following day (four after the first attack) mortification came on, and the weeping Princess
Caroline and Lord Hervey were informed that the queen could not hold out many hours. Hervey
was ordered to withdraw. The king, the Duke of Cumberland, and the queen's four daughters alone
remained, the queen begging them not to leave her until she expired; yet her life was prolonged
many days.

When alone with her family, she took from her finger a ruby ring, which had been placed on
it at the time of the coronation, and gave it to the king. 'This is the last thing,' she said,
'I have to give you; naked I came to you, and naked I go from you; I had everything I ever
possessed from you, and to you whatever I have I return.' She then asked for her keys, and
gave them to the king. To the Princess Caroline she intrusted the care of her younger sisters;
to the Duke of Cumberland, that of keeping up the credit of the family. 'Attempt nothing against
your brother, and endeavour to mortify him by showing superior merit,' she said to him. She
advised the king to marry again; he heard her in sobs, and with much difficulty got out this
sentence: 'Non, j'aurai des maitresses' To which the queen made no other reply than 'Ah, mon
Dieu! cela n'empêche pas.' 'I know,' says Lord Hervey, in his Memoirs, 'that this episode will
hardly be credited, but it is literally true.'

She then fancied she could sleep. The king kissed her, and wept over her; yet when she asked
for her watch, which hung near the chimney, that she might give him the seal to take care of,
his brutal temper broke forth. In the midst of his tears he called out, in a loud voice, 'Let
it alone! mon Dieu! the queen has such strange fancies; who should meddle with your seal? It
is as safe there as in my pocket.'

The queen then thought she could sleep, and, in fact, sank to rest.

On the ensuing day she saw Sir Robert Walpole. 'My good Sir Robert,' she thus addressed him,
'you see me in a very indifferent situation. I have nothing to say to you but to recommend
the king, my children, and the kingdom to your care.'

Lord Hervey, when the minister retired, asked him what he thought of the queen's state.

'My lord,' was the reply, 'she is as much dead as if she was in her coffin; if ever I heard
a corpse speak, it was just now in that room!'

It was a sad, an awful death-bed. The Prince of Wales having sent to inquire after the health
of his dying mother, the queen became uneasy lest he should hear the true state of her case,
asking 'if no one would send those ravens,' meaning the prince's attendants, out of the house.
'They were only,' she said, 'watching her death, and would gladly tear her to pieces whilst
she was alive.' Whilst thus she spoke of her son's courtiers, that son was sitting up all night
in his house in Pall Mall, and saying, when any messenger came in from St. James's, 'Well,
sure, we shall soon have good news, she cannot hold out much longer.' And the princesses were
writing letters to prevent the Princess Royal from coming to England, where she was certain
to meet with brutal unkindness from her father, who could not endure to be put to any expense.
Orders were, indeed, sent to stop her if she set out. She came, however, on pretence of taking
the Bath waters; but George II., furious at her disobedience, obliged her to go direct to and
from Bath without stopping, and never forgave her.

Notwithstanding her predictions, the queen survived the fatal Wednesday.

In consequence of this advice, Archbishop Potter prayed by the queen morning and evening, the
king always quitting the room when his grace entered it. Her children, however, knelt by her
bedside. Still the whisperers who censured were unsatisfied--the concession was thrown away.
Why did not the queen receive the communion? Was it, as the world believed, either 'that she
had reasoned herself into a very low and cold assent to Christianity?' or 'that she was heterodox?'
or 'that the archbishop refused to administer the sacrament until she should be reconciled
to her son?' Even Lord Hervey, who rarely left the antechamber, has only by his silence proved
that she did not take the communion. That antechamber was crowded with persons who, as the
prelate left the chamber of death, crowded around, eagerly asking, 'Has the queen received?'
'Her majesty,' was the evasive reply, 'is in a heavenly disposition:' the public were thus
deceived. Among those who were near the queen at this solemn hour was Dr. Butler, author of
the 'Analogy.' He had been made clerk of the closet, and became, after the queen's death, Bishop
of Bristol. He was in a remote living in Durham, when the queen, remembering that it was long
since she had heard of him, asked the Archbishop of York 'whether Dr. Butler was dead?'--'No,
madam,' replied that prelate (Dr. Blackburn), 'but he is buried;' upon which she had sent for
him to court. The queen lingered till the 20th of November. During that interval of agony her
consort was perpetually boasting to every one of her virtues, her sense, her patience, her
softness, her delicacy; and ending with the praise, 'Comme elle soutenoit sa dignité avec grace,
avec politesse, avec douceur!' Nevertheless he scarcely ever went into her room. Lord Hervey
states that he did, even in this moving situation, snub her for something or other she did
or said. One morning, as she lay with her eyes fixed on a point in the air, as people sometimes
do when they want to keep their thoughts from wandering, the king coarsely told her 'she looked
like a calf which had just had its throat cut.' He expected her to die in state. Then, with
all his bursts of tenderness he always mingled his own praises, hinting that though she was
a good wife he knew he had deserved a good one, and remarking, when he extolled her understanding,
that he did not 'think it the worse for her having kept him company so many years.' To all
this Lord Hervey listened with, doubtless, well-concealed disgust; for cabals were even then
forming for the future influence that might or might not be obtained.

The queen's life, meantime, was softly ebbing away in this atmosphere of selfishness, brutality,
and unbelief. One evening she asked Dr. Tessier impatiently how long her state might continue.

'Your Majesty,' was the reply, 'will soon be released.'

'So much the better,' the queen calmly answered.

At ten o'clock that night, whilst the king lay at the foot of her bed, on the floor, and the
Princess Emily on a couch-bed in the room, the fearful death-rattle in the throat was heard.
Mrs. Purcell, her chief and old attendant, gave the alarm: the Princess Caroline and Lord Hervey
were sent for; but the princess was too late, her mother had expired before she arrived. All
the dying queen said was, 'I have now got an asthma; open the window:' then she added, 'Pray!'
That was her last word. As the Princess Emily began to read some prayers, the sufferer breathed
her last sigh. The Princess Caroline held a looking-glass to her lips, and finding there was
no damp on it, said, ''Tis over!' Yet she shed not one tear upon the arrival of that event,
the prospect of which had cost her so many heartrending sobs.

The king kissed the lifeless face and hands of his often-injured wife, and then retired to
his own apartment, ordering that a page should sit up with him for that and several other nights,
for his Majesty was afraid of apparitions, and feared to be left alone. He caused himself,
however, to be buried by the side of his queen, in Henry VII.'s chapel, and ordered that one
side of his coffin and of hers should be withdrawn; and in that state the two coffins were
discovered not many years ago.

With the death of Queen Caroline, Lord Hervey's life, as to court, was changed. He was afterwards
made lord privy seal, and had consequently to enter the political world, with the disadvantage
of knowing that much was expected from a man of so high a reputation for wit and learning.
He was violently opposed by Pelham, Duke of Newcastle, who had been adverse to his entering
the ministry, and since, with Walpole's favour, it was impossible to injure him by fair means,
it was resolved to oppose Lord Hervey by foul ones. One evening, when he was to speak, a party
of fashionable Amazons, with two duchesses--her grace of Queensberry and her grace of Ancaster--at
their head, stormed the House of Lords and disturbed the debate with noisy laughter and sneers.
Poor Lord Hervey was completely daunted, and spoke miserably. After Sir Robert Walpole's fall
Lord Hervey retired. The following letter from him to Lady Mary Wortley Montagu fully describes
his position and circumstances:--

'I must now,' he writes to her, 'since you take so friendly a part in what concerns me, give
you a short account of my natural and political health; and when I say I am still alive, and
still privy seal, it is all I can say for the pleasure of one or the honour of the other; for
since Lord Orford's retiring, as I am too proud to offer my service and friendship where I
am not sure they will be accepted of, and too inconsiderable to have those advances made to
me (though I never forgot or failed to return any obligation I ever received), so I remain
as illustrious a nothing in this office as ever filled it since it was erected. There is one
benefit, however, I enjoy from this loss of my court interest, which is, that all those flies
which were buzzing about me in the summer sunshine and full ripeness of that interest, have
all deserted its autumnal decay, and from thinking my natural death not far off, and my political
demise already over, have all forgot the death-bed of the one and the coffin of the other.'

Again he wrote to her a characteristic letter:--

'I have been confined these three weeks by a fever, which is a sort of annual tax my detestable
constitution pays to our detestable climate at the return of every spring; it is now much abated,
though not quite gone off.'

He was long a helpless invalid; and on the 8th of August, 1743, his short, unprofitable, brilliant,
unhappy life was closed. He died at Ickworth, attended and deplored by his wife, who had ever
held a secondary part in the heart of the great wit and beau of the court of George II. After
his death his son George returned to Lady Mary all the letters she had written to his father:
the packet was sealed: an assurance was at the same time given that they had not been read.
I ever did, and believe ever shall, like woman best--

    '"Just in the noon of life--those golden days,
      When the mind ripens ere the form decays."'

Certainly this looks very unlike a pure Platonic, and it is not to be wondered at that Lady
Hervey refused to call on Lady Mary, when, long after Lord Hervey's death, that fascinating
woman returned to England. A wit, a courtier at the very fount of all politeness, Lord Hervey
wanted the genuine source of all social qualities--Christianity. That moral refrigerator which
checks the kindly current of neighbourly kindness, and which prevents all genial feeling from
expanding, produced its usual effect--misanthropy. Lord Hervey's lines, in his 'Satire after
the manner of Persius,' describe too well his own mental canker:--

    'Mankind I know, their motives and their art,
     Their vice their own, their virtue best apart,
     Till played so oft, that all the cheat can tell,
     And dangerous only when 'tis acted well.'

Lord Hervey left in the possession of his family a manuscript work, consisting of memoirs of
his own time, written in his own autograph, which was clean and legible. This work, which has
furnished many of the anecdotes connected with his court life in the foregoing pages, was long
guarded from the eye of any but the Hervey family, owing to an injunction given in his will
by Augustus, third Earl of Bristol, Lord Hervey's son, that it should not see the light until
after the death of his Majesty George III. It was not therefore published until 1848, when
they were edited by Mr. Croker. They are referred to both by Horace Walpole, who had heard
of them, if he had not seen them, and by Lord Hailes, as affording the most intimate portraiture
of a court that has ever been presented to the English people. Such a delineation as Lord Hervey
has left ought to cause a sentiment of thankfulness in every British heart for not being exposed
to such influences, to such examples as he gives, in the present day, when goodness, affection,
purity, benevolence, are the household deities of the court of our beloved, inestimable Queen
Victoria.

The subject of this memoir may be thought by some rather the modeller of wits than the original
of that class; the great critic and judge of manners rather than the delight of the dinner-table:
but we are told to the contrary by one who loved him not. At the age of eighteen, Chesterfield,
then Lord Stanhope, was entered at Trinity Hall, Cambridge. It was one of the features of his
character to fall at once into the tone of the society into which he happened to be thrown.
'I shall not give you my opinion of the French, because I am very often taken for one of them,
and several have paid me the highest compliment they think it in their power to bestow--which
is, "Sir, you are just like ourselves." I shall only tell you that I am insolent; I talk a
great deal; I am very loud and peremptory; I sing and dance as I walk along; and, above all,
I spend an immense sum in hair-powder, feathers, and white gloves.'

Although he entered Parliament before he had attained the legal age, and was expected to make
a great figure in that assembly, Lord Chesterfield preferred the reputation of a wit and a
beau to any other distinction. 'Call it vanity, if you will,' he wrote in after-life to his
son, 'and possibly it was so; but my great object was to make every man and every woman love
me. I often succeeded: but why? by taking great pains.'

According to Lord Hervey's account he often even sacrificed his interest to his vanity. The
description given of Lord Chesterfield by one as bitter as himself implies, indeed, that great
pains were requisite to counterbalance the defects of nature. Wilkes, one of the ugliest men
of his time, used to say, that with an hour's start he would carry off the affections of any
woman from the handsomest man breathing. Lord Chesterfield, according to Lord Hervey, required
to be still longer in advance of a rival.

'With a person,' Hervey writes, 'as disagreeable, as it was possible for a human figure to
be without being deformed, he affected following many women of the first beauty and the most
in fashion. How late soever he went to bed, he resolved always to rise early; and this resolution
he adhered to so faithfully, that at the age of fifty-eight he could declare that for more
than forty years he had never been in bed at nine o'clock in the morning, but had generally
been up before eight. He had the good sense, in this respect, not to exaggerate even this homely
virtue. He did not rise with the dawn, as many early risers pride themselves in doing, putting
all the engagements of ordinary life out of their usual beat, just as if the clocks had been
set two hours forward. The man in ordinary society, who rises at four in this country, and
goes to bed at nine, is a social and family nuisance. Strong good sense characterized Chesterfield's
early pursuits. Desultory reading he abhorred. He looked on it as one of the resources of age,
but as injurious to the young in the extreme. Writing to Sir Horace Mann, about the Hanoverian
debate (in 1743, Dec. 15), Walpole praising the speeches of Lords Halifax and Sandwich, adds,
'I was there, and heard Lord Chesterfield make the finest oration I have ever heard there.'
This from a man who had listened to Pulteney, to Chatham, to Carteret, was a singularly valuable
tribute.

Whilst a student at Cambridge, Chesterfield was forming an acquaintance with the Hon. George
Berkeley, the youngest son of the second Earl of Berkeley, and remarkable rather as being the
second husband of Lady Suffolk, the favourite of George II., than from any merits or demerits
of his own.

This early intimacy probably brought Lord Chesterfield into the close friendship which afterwards
subsisted between him and Lady Suffolk, to whom many of his letters are addressed.

His first public capacity was a diplomatic appointment: he afterwards attained to the rank
of an ambassador, whose duty it is, according to a witticism of Sir Henry Wotton's 'to lie
abroad for the good of his country;' and no man was in this respect more competent to fulfil
these requirements than Chesterfield. Hating both wine and tobacco, he had smoked and drunk
at Cambridge, 'to be in the fashion;' he gamed at the Hague, on the same principle; and, unhappily,
gaming became a habit and a passion. Yet never did he indulge it when acting, afterwards, in
a ministerial capacity. Neither when Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, or as Under-secretary of State,
did he allow a gaming-table in his house. On the very night that he resigned office he went
to White's.

The Hague was then a charming residence: among others who, from political motives, were living
there, were John Duke of Marlborough and Queen Sarah, both of whom paid Chesterfield marked
attention. Naturally industrious, with a ready insight into character--a perfect master in
that art which bids us keep one's thoughts close, and our countenances open, Chesterfield was
admirably fitted for diplomacy. A master of modern languages and of history, he soon began
to like business. When in England, he had been accused of having 'a need of a certain proportion
of talk in a day:' 'that,' he wrote to Lady Suffolk, 'is now changed into a need of such a
proportion of writing in a day.'

In 1728 he was promoted: being sent as ambassador to the Hague, where he was popular, and where
he believed his stay would be beneficial both to soul and body, there being 'fewer temptations,
and fewer opportunities to sin,' as he wrote to Lady Suffolk, 'than in England.' Here his days
passed, he asserted, in doing the king's business, very ill--and his own still worse:--sitting
down daily to dinner with fourteen or fifteen people; whilst at five the pleasures of the evening
began with a lounge on the Voorhoot, a public walk planted by Charles V.:--then, either a very
bad French play, or a 'reprise quadrille,' with three ladies, the youngest of them fifty, and
the chance of losing, perhaps, three florins (besides one's time)--lasted till ten o'clock;
at which time 'His Excellency' went home, 'reflecting with satisfaction on the innocent amusements
of a well-spent day, that left nothing behind them,' and retired to bed at eleven, 'with the
testimony of a good conscience.'

All, however, of Chesterfield's time was not passed in this serene dissipation. He began to
compose 'The History of the Reign of George II.' at this period. About only half a dozen chapters
were written. The intention was not confined to Chesterfield: Carteret and Bolingbroke entertained
a similar design, which was completed by neither. When the subject was broached before George
II., he thus expressed himself; and his remarks are the more amusing as they were addressed
to Lord Hervey, who was, at that very moment, making his notes for that bitter chronicle of
his majesty's reign, which has been ushered into the world by the late Wilson Croker--'They
will all three,' said King George II., 'have about as much truth in them as the Mille et Une
Nuits. Not but I shall like to read Bolingbroke's, who of all those rascals and knaves that
have been lying against me these ten years has certainly the best parts, and the most knowledge.
He is a scoundrel, but he is a scoundrel of a higher class than Chesterfield. Chesterfield
is a little, tea-table scoundrel, that tells little womanish lies to make quarrels in families:
and tries to make women lose their reputations, and make their husbands beat them, without
any object but to give himself airs; as if anybody could believe a woman could like a dwarf
baboon.'

Lord Hervey gave the preference to Bolingbroke; stating as his reason, that 'though Lord Bolingbroke
had no idea of wit, his satire was keener than any one's. Lord Chesterfield, on the other hand,
would have a great deal of wit in them; but, in every page you see he intended to be witty:
every paragraph would be an epigram. Polish, he declared, would be his bane;' and Lord Hervey
was perfectly right.

In 1732 Lord Chesterfield was obliged to retire from his embassy on the plea of ill-health,
but probably, from some political cause. He was in the opposition against Sir Robert Walpole
in the Excise Bill; and felt the displeasure of that all-powerful minister by being dismissed
from his office of High Steward.

Being badly received at court he now lived in the country; sometimes at Buxton, where his father
drank the waters, where he had his recreations, when not persecuted by two young brothers.
Sir William Stanhope and John Stanhope, one of whom performed 'tolerably ill upon a broken
hautboy, and the other something worse upon a cracked flute.' There he won three half-crowns
from the curate of the place, and a shilling from 'Gaffer Foxeley' at a cock-match. Sometimes
he sought relaxation in Scarborough, where fashionable beaux 'danced with the pretty ladies
all night,' and hundreds of Yorkshire country bumpkins 'played the inferior parts; and, as
it were, only tumble, whilst the others dance upon the high ropes of gallantry.' Scarborough
was full of Jacobites: the popular feeling was then all rife against Sir Robert Walpole's excise
scheme. Lord Chesterfield thus wittily satirized that famous measure:--

'The people of this town are, at present, in great consternation upon a report they have heard
from London, which, if true, they think will ruin them. They are informed, that considering
the vast consumption of these waters, there is a design laid of excising them next session;
and, moreover, that as bathing in the sea is become the general practice of both sexes, and
as the kings of England have always been allowed to be masters of the seas, every person so
bathing shall be gauged, and pay so much per foot square, as their cubical bulk amounts to.'

In 1733, Lord Chesterfield married Melusina, the supposed niece, but, in fact, the daughter
of the Duchess of Kendal, the mistress of George I. This lady was presumed to be a great heiress,
from the dominion which her mother had over the king. Melusina had been created (for life)
Baroness of Aldborough, county Suffolk, and Countess of Walsingham, county Norfolk, nine years
previous to her marriage.

Her father being George I., as Horace Walpole terms him, 'rather a good sort of man than a
shining king,' and her mother 'being no genius,' there was probably no great attraction about
Lady Walsingham, except her expected dowry.

During her girlhood Melusina resided in the apartments at St. James's--opening into the garden;
and here Horace Walpole describes his seeing George I., in the rooms appropriated to the Duchess
of Kendal, next to those of Melusina Schulemberg, or, as she was then called, the Countess
of Walsingham. That was George I.'

The Duchess of Kendal had been maid of honour to the Electress Sophia, the mother of George
I. and the daughter of Elizabeth of Bohemia. The duchess was always frightful; so much so that
one night the electress, who had acquired a little English, said to Mrs. Howard, afterwards
Lady Suffolk,--glancing at Mademoiselle Schulemberg--'Look at that mawkin, and think of her
being my son's passion!'

The duchess, however, like all the Hanoverians, knew how to profit by royal preference. She
took bribes:--she had a settlement of £3,000 a year. But her daughter was eventually disappointed
of the expected bequest from her father, the king.[24]

In the apartments at St. James's Lord Chesterfield for some time lived, when he was not engaged
in office abroad; and there he dissipated large sums in play. It was here, too, that Queen
Caroline, the wife of George II., detected the intimacy that existed between Chesterfield and
Lady Suffolk. There was an obscure window in Queen Caroline's apartments, which looked into
a dark passage, lighted only by a single lamp at night. One Twelfth Night Lord Chesterfield,
having won a large sum at cards, deposited it with Lady Suffolk, thinking it not safe to carry
it home at night. He was watched, and his intimacy with the mistress of George II. thereupon
inferred. Thenceforth he could obtain no court influence; and, in desperation, he went into
the opposition.

On the death of George I., a singular scene, with which Lord Chesterfield's interests were
connected, occurred in the Privy Council. Dr Wake, Archbishop of Canterbury, produced the king's
will, and delivered it to his successor, expecting that it would be opened and read in the
council; what was his consternation, when his Majesty, without saying a word, put it into his
pocket, and stalked out of the room with real German imperturbability! Neither the astounded
prelate nor the subservient council ventured to utter a word. The will was never more heard
of: and rumour declared that it was burnt. The contents, of course, never transpired; and the
legacy of £40,000, said to have been left to the Duchess of Kendal, was never more spoken of,
until Lord Chesterfield, in 1733, married the Countess of Walsingham. In 1743, it is said,
he claimed the legacy--in right of his wife--the Duchess of Kendal being then dead: and was
'quieted' with £20,000, and got, as Horace Walpole observes, nothing from the duchess--'except
his wife.'

The only excuse that was urged to extenuate this act on the part of George II., was that his
royal father had burned two wills which had been made in his favour. These were supposed to
be the wills of the Duke and Duchess of Zell and of the Electress Sophia. There was not even
common honesty in the house of Hanover at that period.

Disappointed in his wife's fortune, Lord Chesterfield seems to have cared very little for the
disappointed heiress. Their union was childless.

There was little probability of Lord Chesterfield's participating in domestic felicity, when
neither his heart nor his fancy were engaged in the union which he had formed. The lady to
whom he was really attached, and by whom he had a son, resided in the Netherlands: she passed
by the name of Madame du Bouchet, and survived both Lord Chesterfield and her son. A permanent
provision was made for her, and a sum of five hundred pounds bequeathed to her, with these
words: 'as a small reparation for the injury I did her.' 'Certainly,' adds Lord Mahon, in his
Memoir of his illustrious ancestor, 'a small one.'

For some time Lord Chesterfield remained in England, and his letters are dated from Bath, from
Tonbridge, from Blackheath. He had, in 1726, been elevated to the House of Lords upon the death
of his father. In that assembly his great eloquence is thus well described by his biographer:--[25]

'Lord Chesterfield's eloquence, the fruit of much study, was less characterized by force and
compass than by elegance and perspicuity, and especially by good taste and urbanity, and a
vein of delicate irony which, while it sometimes inflicted severe strokes, never passed the
limits of decency and propriety. It was that of a man who, in the union of wit and good sense
with politeness, had not a competitor. These qualities were matured by the advantage which
he assiduously sought and obtained, of a familiar acquaintance with almost all the eminent
wits and writers of his time, many of whom had been the ornaments of a preceding age of literature,
while others were destined to become those of a later period.'

The accession of George II., to whose court Lord Chesterfield had been attached for many years,
brought him no political preferment. The court had, however, its attractions even for one who
owed his polish to the belles of Paris, and who was almost always, in taste and manners, more
foreign than English. Henrietta, Lady Pomfret, the daughter and heiress of John, Lord Jeffreys,
the son of Judge Jeffreys, was at that time the leader of fashion.

Six daughters, one of them, Lady Sophia, surpassingly lovely recalled the perfections of that
ancestress, Arabella Fermor whose charms Pope has so exquisitely touched in the 'Rape of the
Lock.' Lady Sophia became eventually the wife of Lord Carteret, the minister, whose talents
and the charms of whose eloquence constituted him a sort of rival to Chesterfield. With all
his abilities, Lord Chesterfield may be said to have failed both as a courtier and as a political
character, as far as permanent influence in any ministry was concerned, until in 1744, when
what was called the 'Broad-bottomed administration' was formed, when he was admitted into the
cabinet. In the following year, however, he went, for the last time, to Holland, as ambassador,
and succeeded beyond the expectations of his party in the purposes of his embassy. He took
leave of the States-General just before the battle of Fontenoy, and hastened to Ireland, where
he had been nominated Lord-Lieutenant previous to his journey to Holland. He remained in that
country only a year; but long enough to prove how liberal were his views--how kindly the dispositions
of his heart.

Only a few years before Lord Chesterfield's arrival in Dublin, the Duke of Shrewsbury had given
as a reason for accepting the vice-regency of that country, (of which King James I. had said,
there was 'more ado' than with any of his dominions,) 'that it was a place where a man had
business enough to keep him from falling asleep, and not enough to keep him awake.'

Chesterfield, however, was not of that opinion. He did more in one year than the duke would
have accomplished in five. He began by instituting a principle of impartial justice. Formerly,
Protestants had alone been employed as 'managers;' the Lieutenant was to see with Protestant
eyes, to hear with Protestant ears. One of the ultra-zealous informed him that his coachman
was a Papist, and went every Sunday to mass. 'Does he indeed? I will take care he never drives
me there,' was Chesterfield's cool reply.

It was at this critical period, when the Hanoverian dynasty was shaken almost to its downfall
by the insurrection in Scotland of 1745, that Ireland was imperilled: 'With a weak or wavering,
or a fierce and headlong Lord-Lieutenant--with a Grafton or a Strafford,' remarks Lord Mahon,
'there would soon have been a simultaneous rising in the Emerald Isle.' But Chesterfield's
energy, his lenity, his wise and just administration saved the Irish from being excited into
rebellion by the emissaries of Charles Edward, or slaughtered, when conquered, by the 'Butcher,'
and his tiger-like dragoons. When all was over, and that sad page of history in which the deaths
of so many faithful adherents of the exiled family are recorded, had been held up to the gaze
of bleeding Caledonia, Chesterfield recommended mild measures, and advised the establishment
of schools in the Highlands; but the age was too narrow-minded to adopt his views. In January,
1748, Chesterfield retired from public life. 'Could I do any good,' he wrote to a friend, 'I
would sacrifice some more quiet to it; but convinced as I am that I can do none, I will indulge
my ease, and preserve my character. I have gone through pleasures while my constitution and
my spirits would allow me. Business succeeded them; and I have now gone through every part
of it without liking it at all the better for being acquainted with it. It seems a small matter
for so great a mind as his to accomplish, but it was an achievement of infinite difficulty.
Many statesmen had shrunk from the undertaking; and even Chesterfield found it essential to
prepare the public, by writing in some periodical papers on the subject. Nevertheless the vulgar
outcry was vehement: 'Give us back the eleven days we have been robbed of!' cried the mob at
a general election. When Bradley was dying, the common people ascribed his sufferings to a
judgment for the part he had taken in that 'impious transaction,' the alteration of the calendar.
But they were not less bornés in their notions than the Duke of Newcastle, then prime minister.
Upon Lord Chesterfield giving him notice of his Bill, that bustling premier, who had been in
a hurry for forty years, who never 'walked but always ran,' greatly alarmed, begged Chesterfield
not to stir matters that had been long quiet; adding, that he did not like 'new-fangled things.'
He was, as we have seen, overruled, and henceforth the New Style was adopted; and no special
calamity has fallen on the nation, as was expected, in consequence. Nevertheless, after Chesterfield
had made his speech in the House of Lords, and when every one had complimented him on the clearness
of his explanation--'God knows,' he wrote to his son, 'I had not even attempted to explain
the Bill to them; I might as soon have talked Celtic or Sclavonic to them as astronomy. They
would have understood it full as well.' So much for the 'Lords' in those days!

After his furore for politics had subsided, Chesterfield returned to his ancient passion for
play. We must linger a little over the still brilliant period of his middle life, whilst his
hearing was spared; whilst his wit remained, and the charming manners on which he had formed
a science, continued; and before we see him in the mournful decline of a life wholly given
to the world.

He had now established himself in Chesterfield House. Hitherto his progenitors had been satisfied
with Bloomsbury Square, in which the Lord Chesterfield mentioned by De Grammont resided; but
the accomplished Chesterfield chose a site near Audley Street, which had been built on what
was called Mr. Audley's land, lying between Great Brook Field and the 'Shoulder of Mutton Field.'
And near this locality with the elegant name, Chesterfield chose his spot, for which he had
to wrangle and fight with the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, who asked an exorbitant sum
for the ground. Isaac Ware, the editor of 'Palladio,' was the architect to whom the erection
of this handsome residence was intrusted. Happily it is still untouched by any renovating hand.
Chesterfield's favourite apartments, looking on the most spacious private garden in London,
are just as they were in his time; one especially, which he termed the 'finest room in London,'
was furnished and decorated by him. 'The walls,' says a writer in the 'Quarterly Review,' 'are
covered half way up with rich and classical stores of literature; above the cases are in close
series the portraits of eminent authors, French and English, with most of whom he had conversed;
over these, and immediately under the massive cornice, extend all round in foot-long capitals
the Horatian lines:--

    'Nunc . veterum . libris . Nunc . somno . et . inertibus . Horis.
     Lucen . solicter . jucunda . oblivia . vitea.

'On the mantel-pieces and cabinets stand busts of old orators, interspersed with voluptuous
vases and bronzes, antique or Italian, and airy statuettes in marble or alabaster of nude or
semi-nude opera nymphs.'

What Chesterfield called the 'cannonical pillars' of the house were columns brought from Cannons,
near Edgeware, the seat of the Duke of Chandos. The antechamber of Chesterfield House has been
erroneously stated as the room in which Johnson waited the great lord's pleasure. That state
of endurance was probably passed by 'Old Samuel' in Bloomsbury.

In this stately abode--one of the few, the very few, that seem to hold noblesse apart in our
levelling metropolis--Chesterfield held his assemblies of all that London, or indeed England,
Paris, the Hague, or Vienna, could furnish of what was polite and charming. Those were days
when the stream of society did not, as now, flow freely, mingling with the grace of aristocracy
the acquirements of hard-working professors; there was then a strong line of demarcation; it
had not been broken down in the same way as now, when people of rank and wealth live in rows,
instead of inhabiting hotels set apart. Paris has sustained a similar revolution, since her
gardens were built over, and their green shades, delicious, in the centre of that hot city,
are seen no more. In the very Faubourg St. Germain, the grand old hotels are rapidly disappearing,
and with them something of the exclusiveness of the higher orders. Lord Chesterfield, however,
triumphantly pointing to the fruits of his taste and distribution of his wealth, witnessed,
in his library at Chesterfield House, the events which time produced. He heard of the death
of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, and of her bequest to him of twenty thousand pounds, and
her best and largest brilliant diamond ring, 'out of the great regard she had for his merit,
and the infinite obligations she had received from him.' He witnessed the change of society
and of politics which occurred when George II. expired, and the Earl of Bute, calling himself
a descendant of the house of Stuart, 'and humble enough to be proud of it,' having quitted
the isle of Bute, which Lord Chesterfield calls 'but a little south of Nova Zembla,' took possession,
not only of the affections, but even of the senses of the young king, George III., who, assisted
by the widowed Princess of Wales (supposed to be attached to Lord Bute), was 'lugged out of
the seraglio,' and 'placed upon the throne.'

Chesterfield lived to have the honour of having the plan of 'Johnson's Dictionary' inscribed
to him, and the dishonour of neglecting the great author. Johnson, indeed, denied the truth
of the story which gained general belief, in which it was asserted that he had taken a disgust
at being kept waiting in the earl's antechamber, the reason being assigned that his lordship
'had company with him;' when at last the door opened, and forth came Colley Cibber. Then Johnson--so
report said--indignant, not only for having been kept waiting but also for whom, went away,
it was affirmed, in disgust; but this was solemnly denied by the doctor, who assured Boswell
that his wrath proceeded from continual neglect on the part of Chesterfield.

Whilst the Dictionary was in progress, Chesterfield seemed to forget the existence of him,
whom, together with the other literary men, he affected to patronize.

He once sent him ten pounds, after which he forgot Johnson's address, and said 'the great author
had changed his lodgings.' People who really wish to benefit others can always discover where
they lodge. The days of patronage were then expiring, but they had not quite ceased, and a
dedication was always to be in some way paid for. Dodsley said he was sorry too, for he had
a property in the Dictionary, to which his lordship's patronage might be useful. He then said
that Lord Chesterfield had shown him the letter. He read it to me; said, "this man has great
powers," pointed out the severest passages, and said, "how well they were expressed."' The
art of dissimulation, in which Chesterfield was perfect, imposed on Mr. Dodsley.

Dr. Adams expostulated with the doctor, and said Lord Chesterfield declared he would part with
the best servant he had, if he had known that he had turned away a man who was 'always welcome.'
Then Adams insisted on Lord Chesterfield's affability, and easiness of access to literary men.
But the sturdy Johnson replied, 'Sir, that is not Lord Chesterfield; he is the proudest man
existing.' 'I think,' Adams rejoined, 'I know one that is prouder; you, by your own account,
are the prouder of the two.' 'But mine,' Johnson answered, with one of his happy turns, 'was
defensive pride.' 'This man,' he afterwards said, referring to Chesterfield, 'I thought had
been a lord among wits, but I find he is only a wit among lords.'

In revenge, Chesterfield in his Letters depicted Johnson, it is said, in the character of the
'respectable Hottentot.' Amongst other things, he observed of the Hottentot, 'he throws his
meat anywhere but down his throat.' This being remarked to Johnson, who was by no means pleased
at being immortalized as the Hottentot--'Sir,' he answered, 'Lord Chesterfield never saw me
eat in his life.'

Such are the leading points of this famous and lasting controversy. It is amusing to know that
Lord Chesterfield was not always precise as to directions to his letters. He once directed
to Lord Pembroke, who was always swimming 'To the Earl of Pembroke, in the Thames, over against
Whitehall. To him Hervey, who had probably often smarted, applied the lines of Boileau--

    'Mais c'est un petit fou qui se croit tout permis,
     Et qui pour un bon mot va perdre vingt amis.'

Horace Walpole (a more lenient judge of Chesterfield's merits) observes that 'Chesterfield
took no less pains to be the phoenix of fine gentlemen, than Tully did to qualify himself as
an orator. Both succeeded: Tully immortalized his name; Chesterfield's reign lasted a little
longer than that of a fashionable beauty.' It was, perhaps, because, as Dr. Johnson said, all
Lord Chesterfield's witty sayings were puns, that even his brilliant wit failed to please,
although it amused, and surprised its hearers.

Notwithstanding the contemptuous description of Lord Chesterfield's personal appearance by
Lord Hervey, his portraits represent a handsome, though hard countenance, well-marked features,
and his figure and air appear to have been elegant. With his commanding talents, his wonderful
brilliancy and fluency of conversation, he would perhaps sometimes have been even tedious,
had it not been for his invariable cheerfulness. He was always, as Lord Hervey says, 'present'
in his company. Amongst the few friends who really loved this thorough man of the world, was
Lord Scarborough, yet no two characters were more opposite. Lord Scarborough had judgment,
without wit: Chesterfield wit, and no judgment; Lord Scarborough had honesty and principle;
Lord Chesterfield had neither. Everybody liked the one, but did not care for his company. Everyone
disliked the other, but wished for his company. The fact was, Scarborough was 'splendid and
absent.' Chesterfield 'cheerful and present:' wit, grace, attention to what is passing, the
surface, as it were, of a highly-cultured mind, produced a fascination with which all the honour
and respectability in the Court of George II. could not compete.

In the earlier part of Chesterfield's career, Pope, Bolingbroke, Hervey, Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu, and, in fact, all that could add to the pleasures of the then early dinner-table,
illumined Chesterfield House by their wit and gaiety. Yet in the midst of this exciting life,
Lord Chesterfield found time to devote to the improvement of his natural son, Philip Stanhope,
a great portion of his leisure. His celebrated Letters to that son did not, however, appear
during the earl's life; nor were they in any way the source of his popularity as a wit, which
was due to his merits in that line alone.

The youth to whom these letters, so useful and yet so objectionable, were addressed, was intended
for a diplomatist. He was the very reverse of his father: learned, sensible, and dry; but utterly
wanting in the graces, and devoid of eloquence. As an orator, therefore, he failed; as a man
of society, he must also have failed; and his death, in 1768, some years before that of his
father, left that father desolate, and disappointed. Philip Stanhope had attained the rank
of envoy to Dresden, where he expired.

During the five years in which Chesterfield dragged out a mournful life after this event, he
made the painful discovery that his son had married without confiding that step to the father
to whom he owed so much. This must have been almost as trying as the awkward, ungraceful deportment
of him whom he mourned. The world now left Chesterfield ere he had left the world. He and his
contemporary Lord Tyrawley were now old and infirm. 'The fact is,' Chesterfield wittily said,
'Tyrawley and I have been dead these two years, but we don't choose to have it known.'

'The Bath,' he wrote to his friend Dayrolles, 'did me more good than I thought anything could
do me; but all that good does not amount to what builders call half-repairs, and only keeps
up the shattered fabric a little longer than it would have stood without them; but take my
word for it, it will stand but a very little while longer. I am now in my grand climacteric,
and shall not complete it. Fontenelle's last words at a hundred and three were, Je souffre
d'être. deaf and infirm as I am, I can with truth say the same thing at sixty-three. In my
mind it is only the strength of our passions, and the weakness of our reason, that makes us
so fond of life; but when the former subside and give way to the latter, we grow weary of being,
and willing to withdraw. I do not recommend this train of serious reflections to you, nor ought
you to adopt them.... You have children to educate and provide for, you have all your senses,
and can enjoy all the comforts both of domestic and social life. I am in every sense isolé,
and have wound up all my bottoms; I may now walk off quietly, without missing nor being missed.'

The kindness of his nature, corrupted as it was by a life wholly worldly, and but little illumined
in its course by religion, shone now in his care of his two grandsons, the offspring of his
lost son, and of their mother, Eugenia Stanhope. In the mean time, I beg that you will equip
them thoroughly with clothes, linen, &c., all good, but plain; and give me the amount, which
I will pay; for I do not intend, from this time forwards, the two boys should cost you one
shilling.'

He lived, latterly, much at Blackheath, in the house which, being built on Crown land, has
finally become the Ranger's lodge; but which still sometimes goes by the name of Chesterfield
House. Here he spent large sums, especially on pictures, and cultivated Cantelupe melons; and
here, as he grew older, and became permanently afflicted with deafness, his chief companion
was a useful friend, Solomon Dayrolles--one of those indebted hangers-on whom it was an almost
invariable custom to find, at that period, in great houses--and perhaps too frequently in our
own day. Not long before his death he was visited by Monsieur Suard, a French gentleman, who
was anxious to see 'l'homme le plus aimable, le plus poli et le plus spirituel des trois royaumes,'
but who found him fearfully altered; morose from his deafness, yet still anxious to please.
'It is very sad,' he said, with his usual politeness, 'to be deaf, when one would so much enjoy
listening. I am not,' he added, 'so philosophic as my friend the President de Montesquieu,
who says, "I know how to be blind, but I do not yet know how to be deaf."' 'We shortened our
visit,' says M. Suard, 'lest we should fatigue the earl.' 'I do not detain you,' said Chesterfield,
'for I must go and rehearse my funeral.' It was thus that he styled his daily drive through
the streets of London.

Lord Chesterfield's wonderful memory continued till his latest hour. As he lay, gasping in
the last agonies of extreme debility, his friend, Mr. Dayrolles, called in to see him half
an hour before he expired. The politeness which had become part of his very nature did not
desert the dying earl. He managed to say, in a low voice, to his valet, 'Give Dayrolles a chair.'
This little trait greatly struck the famous Dr. Warren, who was at the bedside of this brilliant
and wonderful man. He died on the 24th of March, 1773, in the 79th year of his age.

The preamble to a codicil (Feb. 11, 1773) contains the following striking sentences, written
when the intellect was impressed with the solemnity of that solemn change which comes alike
to the unreflecting and to the heart stricken, holy believer:--

     'I most humbly recommend my soul to the extensive mercy of that
     Eternal, Supreme, Intelligent Being who gave it me; most
     earnestly at the same time deprecating his justice. Satiated with
     the pompous follies of this life, of which I have had an uncommon
     share, I would have no posthumous ones displayed at my funeral,
     and therefore desire to be buried in the next burying-place to
     the place where I shall die, and limit the whole expense of my
     funeral to £100.'

His body was interred, according to his wish, in the vault of the chapel in South Audley Street,
but it was afterwards removed to the family burial-place in Shelford Church, Nottinghamshire.

In his will he left legacies to his servants.[26] 'I consider them,' he said, 'as unfortunate
friends; my equals by nature, and my inferiors only in the difference of our fortunes.' There
was something lofty in the mind that prompted that sentence.

His estates reverted to a distant kinsman, descended from a younger son of the first earl;
and it is remarkable, on looking through the Peerage of Great Britain, to perceive how often
this has been the case in a race remarkable for the absence of virtue. Interested marriages,
vicious habits, perhaps account for the fact; but retributive justice, though it be presumptuous
to trace its course, is everywhere.

He had so great a horror in his last days of gambling, that in bequeathing his possessions
to his heir, as he expected, and godson, Philip Stanhope, he inserts this clause:--

     'In case my said godson, Philip Stanhope, shall at any time
     hereinafter keep, or be concerned in keeping of, any race-horses,
     or pack of hounds, or reside one night at Newmarket, that
     infamous seminary of iniquity and ill-manners, during the course
     of the races there; or shall resort to the said races; or shall
     lose, in any one day, at any game or bet whatsoever, the sum of
     £500, then, in any the cases aforesaid, it is my express will
     that he, my said godson, shall forfeit and pay, out of my estate,
     the sum of £5,000 to and for the use of the Dean and Chapter of
     Westminster.'

When we say that Lord Chesterfield was a man who had no friend, we sum up his character in
those few words. Just after his death a small but distinguished party of men dined together
at Topham Beauclerk's. There was Sir Joshua Reynolds; Sir William Jones, the orientalist; Bennet
Langton; Steevens; Boswell; Johnson. The conversation turned on Garrick, who, Johnson said,
had friends, but no friend. But not so do we judge Lord Chesterfield. He was a man who acted
on false principles through life; and those principles gradually undermined everything that
was noble and generous in character; just as those deep under-ground currents, noiseless in
their course, work through fine-grained rock, and produce a chasm. Everything with Chesterfield
was self: for self, and self alone, were agreeable qualities to be assumed; for self, was the
country to be served, because that country protects and serves us: for self, were friends to
be sought and cherished, as useful auxiliaries, or pleasant accessories: in the very core of
the cankered heart, that advocated this corrupting doctrine of expediency, lay unbelief; that
worm which never died in the hearts of so many illustrious men of that period--the refrigerator
of the feelings.

One only gentle and genuine sentiment possessed Lord Chesterfield, and that was his love for
his son. Yet in this affection the worldly man might be seen in mournful colours. He did not
seek to render his son good; his sole desire was to see him successful: every lesson that he
taught him, in those matchless Letters which have carried down Chesterfield's fame to us when
his other productions have virtually expired, exposes a code of dissimulation which Philip
Stanhope, in his marriage, turned upon the father to whom he owed so much care and advancement.
These Letters are, in fact, a complete exposition of Lord Chesterfield's character and views
of life. No other man could have written them; no other man have conceived the notion of existence
being one great effort to deceive, as well as to excel, and of society forming one gigantic
lie. It is true they were addressed to one who was to enter the maze of a diplomatic career,
and must be taken, on that account, with some reservation.

They have justly been condemned on the score of immorality; but we must remember that the age
in which they were written was one of lax notions, especially among men of rank, who regarded
all women accessible, either from indiscretion or inferiority of rank, as fair game, and acted
accordingly. But whilst we agree with one of Johnson's bitterest sentences as to the immorality
of Chesterfield's letters, we disagree with his styling his code of manners the manners of
a dancing-master. Chesterfield was in himself a perfect instance of what he calls les manières
nobles; and this even Johnson allowed. And Foote even contemplated bringing on the stage a
father who had thus tutored his son; and intended to show the son an honest man in everything
else, but practising his father's maxims upon him, and cheating him.

'It should be so contrived,' Johnson remarked, referring to Foote's plan, 'that the father
should be the only sufferer by the son's villany, and thus there would be poetical justice.'
'Take out the immorality,' he added, on another occasion, 'and the book (Chesterfield's Letters
to his Son) should be put into the hands of every young gentleman.'

We are inclined to differ, and to confess to a moral taint throughout the whole of the Letters;
and even had the immorality been expunged, the false motives, the deep, invariable advocacy
of principles of expediency, would have poisoned what otherwise might be of effectual benefit
to the minor virtues of polite society.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 23: The Countess of Chesterfield here alluded to was the second wife of Philip, second
Earl of Chesterfield.

There is an Indian or Chinese legend, I forget which, from which Mrs. Shelley may have taken
her hideous idea of Frankenstein. We are told in this allegory that, after fashioning some
thousands of men after the most approved model, endowing them with all that is noble, generous,
admirable, and loveable in man or woman, the eastern Prometheus grew weary in his work, stretched
his hand for the beer-can, and draining it too deeply, lapsed presently into a state of what
Germans call 'other-man-ness.'--There is a simpler Anglo-Saxon term for this condition, but
I spare you. The eastern Prometheus went on seriously with his work, and still produced the
same perfect models, faultless alike in brain and leg. But when it came to the delicate finish,
when the last touches were to be made, his hand shook a little, and the more delicate members
went awry. It was thus that instead of the power of seeing every colour properly, one man came
out with a pair of optics which turned everything to green, and this verdancy probably transmitted
itself to the intelligence. Another, to continue the allegory, whose tympanum had slipped a
little under the unsteady fingers of the man-maker, heard everything in a wrong sense, and
his life was miserable, because, if you sang his praises, he believed you were ridiculing him,
and if you heaped abuse upon him, he thought you were telling lies of him.

But as Prometheus Orientalis grew more jovial, it seems to have come into his head to make
mistakes on purpose. 'I'll have a friend to laugh with,' quoth he; and when warned by an attendant
Yaksha, or demon, that men who laughed one hour often wept the next, he swore a lusty oath,
struck his thumb heavily on a certain bump in the skull he was completing, and holding up his
little doll, cried, 'Here is one who will laugh at everything!'

I must now add what the legend neglects to tell. The model laugher succeeded well enough in
his own reign, but he could not beget a large family. The laughers who never weep, the real
clowns of life, who do not, when the curtain drops, retire, after an infinitesimal allowance
of 'cordial,' to a half-starved, complaining family, with brats that cling round his parti-coloured
stockings, and cry to him--not for jokes--but for bread, these laughers, I say, are few and
far between. You should, therefore, be doubly grateful to me for introducing to you now one
of the most famous of them; one who with all right and title to be lugubrious, was the merriest
man of his age.

On Shrove Tuesday, in the year 1638, the good city of Mans was in a state of great excitement:
the carnival was at its height, and everybody had gone mad for one day before turning pious
for the long, dull forty days of Lent. The market-place was filled with maskers in quaint costumes,
each wilder and more extravagant than the last. Here were magicians with high peaked hats covered
with cabalistic signs, here Eastern sultans of the medieval model, with very fierce looks and
very large scimitars: here Amadis de Gaul with a wagging plume a yard high, here Pantagruel,
here harlequins, here Huguenots ten times more lugubrious than the despised sectaries they
mocked, here Cæsar and Pompey in trunk hose and Roman helmets, and a mass of other notabilities
who were great favourites in that day, appeared.

But who comes here? What is the meaning of these roars of laughter that greet the last mask
who runs into the market-place? Why do all the women and children hurry together, calling up
one another, and shouting with delight? What is this thing? Is it some new species of bird,
thus covered with feathers and down? In a few minutes the little figure is surrounded by a
crowd of boys and women, who begin to pluck him of his borrowed plumes, while he chatters to
them like a magpie, whistles like a song-bird, croaks like a raven, or in his natural character
showers a mass of funny nonsense on them, till their laughter makes their sides ache. The little
wretch is literally covered with small feathers from head to foot, and even his face is not
to be recognized. The women pluck him behind and before; he dances round and tries to evade
their fingers. This is impossible; he breaks away, runs down the market pursued by a shouting
crowd, is again surrounded, and again subjected to a plucking process. The bird must be stripped;
he must be discovered. Little by little his back is bared, and little by little is seen a black
jerkin, black stockings, and, wonder upon wonder! the bands of a canon. Now they have cleared
his face of its plumage, and a cry of disgust and shame hails the disclosure. Yes, this curious
masker is no other than a reverend abbé, a young canon of the cathedral of Mans! 'This is too
much--it is scandalous--it is disgraceful. The church must be respected, the sacred order must
not descend to such frivolities.' The people, lately laughing, are now furious at the shameless
abbé and not his liveliest wit can save him; they threaten and cry shame on him, and in terror
of his life, he beats his way through the crowd, and takes to his heels. The mob follows, hooting
and savage. The little man is nimble; those well-shaped legs--qui ont si bien dansé--stand
him in good stead. Down the streets, and out of the town go hare and hounds. The pursuers gain
on him--a bridge, a stream filled with tall reeds, and delightfully miry, are all the hope
of refuge he sees before him. He leaps gallantly from the bridge in among the oziers, and has
the joy of listening to the disappointed curses of the mob, when reaching the stream, their
quarry is nowhere to be seen. The reeds conceal him, and there he lingers till nightfall, when
he can issue from his lurking-place, and escape from the town.

Such was the mad freak which deprived the Abbé Scarron of the use of his limbs for life. His
health was already ruined when he indulged this caprice; the damp of the river brought on a
violent attack, which closed with palsy, and the gay young abbé had to pay dearly for the pleasure
of astonishing the citizens of Mans. The disguise was easily accounted for--he had smeared
himself with honey, ripped open a feather-bed, and rolled himself in it.

This little incident gives a good idea of what Scarron was in his younger days--ready at any
time for any wild caprice.

Paul Scarron was the son of a Conseiller du Parlement of good family, resident in Paris. He
was born in 1610, and his early days would have been wretched enough, if his elastic spirits
had allowed him to give way to misery. His father was a good-natured, weak-minded man, who
on the death of his first wife married a second, who, as one hen will peck at another's chicks,
would not, as a stepmother, leave the little Paul in peace. She was continually putting her
own children forward, and ill-treating the late 'anointed' son. The father gave in too readily,
and young Paul was glad enough to be set free from his unhappy home. There may be some excuse
in this for the licentious living to which he now gave himself up. He was heir to a decent
fortune, and of course thought himself justified in spending it before-hand. Then, in spite
of his quaint little figure, he had something attractive about him, for his merry face was
good-looking, if not positively handsome. If we add to this, spirits as buoyant as an Irishman's--a
mind that not only saw the ridiculous wherever it existed, but could turn the most solemn and
awful themes to laughter, a vast deal of good-nature, and not a little assurance--we can understand
that the young Scarron was a favourite with both men and women, and among the reckless pleasure-seekers
of the day soon became one of the wildest. In short, he was a fast young Parisian, with as
little care for morality or religion as any youth who saunters on the Boulevards of the French
capital to this day.

But his stepmother was not content with getting rid of young Paul, but had her eye also on
his fortune, and therefore easily persuaded her husband that the service of the church was
precisely the career for which the young reprobate was fitted. There was an uncle who was Bishop
of Grenoble, and a canonry could easily be got for him. The fast youth was compelled to give
in to this arrangement, but declined to take full orders; so that while drawing the revenue
of his stall, he had nothing to do with the duties of his calling. Then, too, it was rather
a fashionable thing to be an abbé, especially a gay one. The position placed you on a level
with people of all ranks. Half the court was composed of love-making ecclesiastics, and the
soutane was a kind of diploma for wit and wickedness. Viewed in this light, the church was
as jovial a profession as the army, and the young Scarron went to the full extent of the letter
allowed to the black gown. It was only such stupid superstitious louts as those of Mans, who
did not know anything of the ways of Paris life, who could object to such little freaks as
he loved to indulge in.

The merry little abbé was soon the delight of the Marais. This distinct and antiquated quarter
of Paris was then the Mayfair of that capital. Here lived in ease, and contempt of the bourgeoisie,
the great, the gay, the courtier, and the wit. Here Marion de Lorme received old Cardinals
and young abbés; here were the salons of Madame de Martel, of the Comtesse de la Suze, who
changed her creed in order to avoid seeing her husband in this world or the next, and the famous--or
infamous--Ninon de l'Enclos; and at these houses young Scarron met the courtly Saint-Evremond,
the witty Sarrazin, and the learned but arrogant Voiture. Here he read his skits and parodies,
here travestied Virgil, made epigrams on Richelieu, and poured out his indelicate but always
laughable witticisms. But his indulgences were not confined to intrigues; he also drank deep,
and there was not a pleasure within his reach which he ever thought of denying himself. He
laughed at religion, thought morality a nuisance, and resolved to be merry at all costs.

The little account was brought in at last. At the age of five-and-twenty his constitution was
broken up. Gout and rheumatism assailed him alternately or in leash. He began to feel the annoyance
of the constraint they occasioned; he regretted those legs which had figured so well in a ronde
or a minuet, and those hands which had played the lute to dames more fair than modest; and
to add to this, the pain he suffered was not slight. He sought relief in gay society, and was
cheerful in spite of his sufferings. At length came the Shrove Tuesday and the feathers; and
the consequences were terrible. He was soon a prey to doctors, whom he believed in no more
than in the church of which he was so great a light. His legs were no longer his own, so he
was obliged to borrow those of a chair. He was soon tucked down into a species of dumb-waiter
on castors, in which he could be rolled about in a party. In front of this chair was fastened
a desk, on which he wrote; for too wise to be overcome by his agony, he drove it away by cultivating
his imagination, and in this way some of the most fantastic productions in French literature
were composed by this quaint little abbé.

Nor was sickness his only trial now. Old Scarron was a citizen, and had, what was then criminal,
sundry ideas of the liberty of the nation. He saw with disgust the tyranny of Richelieu, and
joined a party in the Parliament to oppose the cardinal's measures. He even had the courage
to speak openly against one of the court edicts; and the pitiless cardinal, who never overlooked
any offence, banished him to Touraine, and naturally extended his animosity to the conseiller's
son. This happened at a moment at which the cripple believed himself to be on the road to favour.
He had already won that of Madame de Hautefort, on whom Louis XIII. had set his affections,
and this lady had promised to present him to Anne of Austria. The father's honest boldness
put a stop to the son's intended servility, and Scarron lamented his fate in a letter to Pellisson:

    O mille écus, par malheur retranchés,
    Que vous pouviez m'épargner de péchés!
    Quand un valet me dit, tremblant et hâve,
    Nous n'avons plus de bûches dans la cave
    Que pour aller jusqu'à demain matin,
    Je peste alors sur mon chien de destin,
    Sur le grand froid, sur le bois de la grève,
    Qu'on vend si cher, et qui si-tôt s'achève.
    Je jure alors, et même je médis
    De l'action de mon père étourdi,
    Quand sans songer à ce qu'il allait faire
    Il m'ébaucha sous un astre contraire,
    Et m'acheva par un discours maudit
    Qu'il fit depuis sur un certain édit.

The father died in exile: his second wife had spent the greater part of the son's fortune,
and secured the rest for her own children. Scarron was left with a mere pittance, and, to complete
his troubles, was involved in a lawsuit about the property. The cripple, with his usual impudence,
resolved to plead his own cause, and did it only too well; he made the judges laugh so loud
that they took the whole thing to be a farce on his part, and gave--most ungratefully--judgment
against him.

Glorious days were those for the penniless, halcyon days for the toady and the sycophant. There
was still much of the old oriental munificence about the court, and sovereigns like Mazarin
and Louis XIV. granted pensions for a copy of flattering verses, or gave away places as the
reward of a judicious speech. Sinecures were legion, yet to many a holder they were no sinecures
at all, for they entailed constant servility and a complete abdication of all freedom of opinion.

Scarron was nothing more than a merry buffoon. Many another man has gained a name for his mirth,
but most of them have been at least independent. Scarron seems to have cared for nothing that
was honourable or dignified. He laughed at everything but money, and at that he smiled, though
it is only fair to say that he was never avaricious, but only cared for ease and a little luxury.

When Richelieu died, and the gentler, but more subtle Mazarin mounted his throne, Madame de
Hautefort made another attempt to present her protégé to the queen, and this time succeeded.
Anne of Austria had heard of the quaint little man who could laugh over a lawsuit in which
his whole fortune was staked, and received him graciously. He begged for some place to support
him. What could he do? What was he fit for? 'Nothing, your majesty, but the important office
of The Queen's Patient; for that I am fully qualified.' Anne smiled, and Scarron from that
time styled himself 'par la grace de Dieu, le malade de la Reine.' But there was no stipend
attached to this novel office. Mazarin procured him a pension of 500 crowns. He was then publishing
his 'Typhon, or the Gigantomachy,' and dedicated it to the cardinal, with an adulatory sonnet.
He forwarded the great man a splendidly bound copy, which was accepted with nothing more than
thanks. In a rage the author suppressed the sonnet and substituted a satire. This piece was
bitterly cutting, and terribly true. It galled Mazarin to the heart, and he was undignified
enough to revenge himself by cancelling the poor little pension of £60 per annum which had
previously been granted to the writer. Scarron having lost his pension, soon afterwards asked
for an abbey, but was refused. 'Then give me,' said he, 'a simple benefice, so simple, indeed,
that all its duties will be comprised in believing in God.' But Scarron had the satisfaction
of gaining a great name among the cardinal's many enemies, and with none more so than De Retz,
then coadjuteur[27] to the Archbishop of Paris, and already deeply implicated in the Fronde
movement. To insure the favour of this rising man, Scarron determined to dedicate to him a
work he was just about to publish, and on which he justly prided himself as by far his best.
This was the 'Roman Comique,' the only one of his productions which is still read. That it
should be read, I can quite understand, on account not only of the ease of its style, but of
the ingenuity of its improbable plots, the truth of the characters, and the charming bits of
satire which are found here and there, like gems amid a mass of mere fun. The scene is laid
at Mans, the town in which the author had himself perpetrated his chief follies; and many of
the characters were probably drawn from life, while it is likely enough that some of the stories
were taken from facts which had there come to his knowledge. As in many of the romances of
that age, a number of episodes are introduced into the main story, which consists of the adventures
of a strolling company. These are mainly amatory, and all indelicate, while some are as coarse
as anything in French literature. Scarron had little of the clear wit of Rabelais to atone
for this; but he makes up for it, in a measure, by the utter absurdity of some of his incidents.
Not the least curious part of the book is the Preface, in which he gives a description of himself,
in order to contradict, as he affirms, the extravagant reports circulated about him, to the
effect that he was set upon a table, in a cage, or that his hat was fastened to the ceiling
by a pulley, that he might 'pluck it up or let it down, to do compliment to a friend, who honoured
him with a visit.' This description is a tolerable specimen of his style, and we give it in
the quaint language of an old translation, published in 1741:--

'I am past thirty, as thou may'st see by the back of my Chair. If I live to be forty, I shall
add the Lord knows how many Misfortunes to those I have already suffered for these eight or
nine Years past. There was a Time when my Stature was not to be found fault with, tho' now
'tis of the smallest. My Sickness has taken me shorter by a Foot. My Head is somewhat too big,
considering my Height; and my Face is full enough, in all Conscience, for one that carries
such a Skeleton of a Body about him. I have Hair enough on my Head not to stand in need of
a Peruke; and 'tis gray, too, in spite of the Proverb. My Sight is good enough, tho' my Eyes
are large; they are of a blue Colour, and one of them is sunk deeper into my Head than the
other, which was occasion'd by my leaning on that Side. My Nose is well enough mounted. My
Teeth, which in the Days of Yore look'd like a Row of square Pearl, are now of an Ashen Colour;
and in a few Years more, will have the Complexion of a Small-coal Man's Saturday Shirt. I have
lost one Tooth and a half on the left Side, and two and a half precisely on the right; and
I have two more that stand somewhat out of their Ranks. My Legs and Thighs, in the first place,
compose an obtuse Angle, then a right one, and lastly an acute. My Thighs and Body make another;
and my Head, leaning perpetually over my Belly, I fancy makes me not very unlike the Letter
Z. My Arms are shortened, as well as my Legs; and my Fingers as well as my Arms. In short,
I am a living Epitome of human Misery. This, as near as I can give it, is my Shape. Since I
am got so far, I will e'en tell thee something of my Humour. Under the Rose, be it spoken,
Courteous Reader, I do this only to swell the Bulk of my Book, at the Request of the Bookseller--the
poor Dog, it seems, being afraid he should be a Loser by this Impression, if he did not give
Buyer enough for his Money.'

This allusion to the publisher reminds us that, on the suppression of his pension--on hearing
of which Scarron only said, 'I should like, then, to suppress myself'--he had to live on the
profits of his works. In later days it was Madame Scarron herself who often carried them to
the bookseller's, when there was not a penny in the house. The publisher was Quinet, and the
merry wit, when asked whence he drew his income, used to reply with mock haughtiness, 'De mon
Marquisat de Quinet.' His comedies, which have been described as mere burlesques--I confess
I have never read them, and hope to be absolved--were successful enough, and if Scarron had
known how to keep what he made, he might sooner or later have been in easy circumstances. He
knew neither that nor any other art of self-restraint, and, therefore, was in perpetual vicissitudes
of riches and penury. At one time he could afford to dedicate a piece to his sister's greyhound,
at another he was servile in his address to some prince or duke.

In the latter spirit, he humbled himself before Mazarin, in spite of the publication of his
'Mazarinade,' and was, as he might have expected, repulsed. He then turned to Fouquet, the
new Surintendant de Finances, who was liberal enough with the public money, which he so freely
embezzled, and extracted from him a pension of 1,600 francs (about £64). In one way or another,
he got back a part of the property his stepmother had alienated from him, and obtained a prebend
in the diocese of Mans, which made up his income to something more respectable.

He was now able to indulge to the utmost his love of society. In his apartment, in the Rue
St. Louis, he received all the leaders of the Fronde, headed by De Retz, and bringing with
them their pasquinades on Mazarin, which the easy Italian read and laughed at and pretended
to heed not at all. Politics, however, was not the staple of the conversation at Scarron's.
He was visited as a curiosity, as a clever buffoon, and those who came to see, remained to
laugh. He kept them all alive by his coarse, easy, impudent wit; in which there was more vulgarity
and dirtiness than ill-nature. He had a fund of bonhommie, which set his visitors at their
ease, for no one was afraid of being bitten by the chained dog they came to pat. His salon
became famous; and the admission to it was a diploma of wit. He kept out all the dull, and
ignored all the simply great. Any man who could say a good thing, tell a good story, write
a good lampoon, or mimic a fool, was a welcome guest. Wits mingled with pedants, courtiers
with poets. Abbés and gay women were at home in the easy society of the cripple, and circulated
freely round his dumb-waiter.

The ladies of the party were not the most respectable in Paris, yet some who were models of
virtue met there, without a shudder, many others who were patterns of vice. Ninon de l'Enclos--then
young--though age made no alteration in her--and already slaying her scores, and ruining her
hundreds of admirers, there met Madame de Sévigné, the most respectable, as well as the most
agreeable, woman of that age. Mademoiselle de Scudéry, leaving, for the time, her twelve-volume
romance, about Cyrus and Ibrahim, led on a troop of Molière's Précieuses Ridicules, and here
recited her verses, and talked pedantically to Pellisson, the ugliest man in Paris, of whom
Boileau wrote:

    'L'or même à Pellisson donne un teint de beauté.'

Then there was Madame de la Sablière, who was as masculine as her husband the marquis was effeminate;
the Duchesse de Lesdiguières, who was so anxious to be thought a wit that she employed the
Chevalier de Méré to make her one; and the Comtesse de la Suze, a clever but foolish woman.

The men were poets, courtiers, and pedants. Ménage with his tiresome memory, Montreuil and
Marigni the song-writers, the elegant De Grammont, Turenne, Coligni, the gallant Abbé Têtu,
and many another celebrity, thronged the rooms where Scarron sat in his curious wheelbarrow.

The conversation was decidedly light; often, indeed, obscene, in spite of the presence of ladies;
but always witty. The hostility of Scarron to the reigning cardinal was a great recommendation,
and when all else flagged, or the cripple had an unusually sharp attack, he had but to start
with a line of his 'Mazarinade,' and out came a fresh lampoon, a new caricature, or fresh rounds
of wit fired off at the Italian, from the well-filled cartridge-boxes of the guests, many of
whom kept their mots ready made up for discharge.

But a change came over the spirit of the paralytic's dream. In the Rue St. Louis, close to
Scarron's, lived a certain Madame Neuillant, who visited him as a neighbour, and one day excited
his curiosity by the romantic history of a mother and daughter, who had long lived in Martinique,
who had been ruined by the extravagance and follies of a reprobate husband and father; and
were now living in great poverty--the daughter being supported by Madame de Neuillant herself.
The good-natured cripple was touched by this story, and begged his neighbour to bring the unhappy
ladies to one of his parties. The evening came; the abbé was, as usual, surrounded by a circle
of lady wits, dressed in the last fashions, flaunting their fans, and laughing merrily at his
sallies. Madame de Neuillant was announced, and entered, followed by a simply-dressed lady,
with the melancholy face of one broken-down by misfortunes, and a pretty girl of fifteen. The
contrast between the new-comers and the fashionable habituées around him at once struck the
abbé. The girl was not only badly, but even shabbily dressed, and the shortness of her gown
showed that she had grown out of it, and could not afford a new one. The grandes dames turned
upon her their eye-glasses, and whispered comments behind their fans. She was very pretty,
they said, very interesting, elegant, lady-like, and so on; but, parbleu! how shamefully mal
mise! The new-comers were led up to the cripple's dumb-waiter, and the grandes dames drew back
their ample petticoats as they passed. The young girl was overcome with shame, their whispers
reached her; she cast down her pretty eyes, and growing more and more confused, she could bear
it no longer, and burst into tears. The abbé and his guests were touched by her shyness, and
endeavoured to restore her confidence. Scarron himself leant over, and whispered a few kind
words in her ear; then breaking out into some happy pleasantry, he gave her time to recover
her composure. Such was the first début in Parisian society of Françoise d'Aubigné, who was
destined, as Madame Scarron, to be afterwards one of its leaders, and, as Madame de Maintenon,
to be its ruler.

Some people are cursed with bad sons--some with erring daughters. Françoise d'Aubigné was long
the victim of a wicked father. Constans d'Aubigné belonged to an old and honourable family,
and was the son of that famous old Huguenot general, Théodore-Agrippa d'Aubigné, who fought
for a long time under Henry of Navarre, and in his old age wrote the history of his times.
To counterbalance this distinction, the son Constans brought all the discredit he could on
the family. After a reckless life, in which he squandered his patrimony, he married a rich
widow, and then, it is said, contrived to put her out of the way. He was imprisoned as a murderer,
but acquitted for want of evidence. The story goes, that he was liberated by the daughter of
the governor of the gaol, whom he had seduced in the prison, and whom he married when free.
He sought to retrieve his fortune in the island of Martinique, ill-treated his wife, and eventually
ran away, and left her and her children to their fate. They followed him to France, and found
him again incarcerated. Madame d'Aubigné was foolishly fond of her good-for-nothing spouse,
and lived with him in his cell, where the little Françoise, who had been born in prison, was
now educated.

Rescued from starvation by a worthy Huguenot aunt, Madame de Vilette, the little girl was brought
up as a Protestant, and a very stanch one she proved for a time. But Madame d'Aubigné, who
was a Romanist, would not allow her to remain long under the Calvinist lady's protection, and
sent her to be converted by her godmother, the Madame de Neuillant above mentioned. This woman,
who was as merciless as a woman can be, literally broke her into Romanism, treated her like
a servant, made her groom the horses, and comb the maid's hair, and when all these efforts
failed, sent her to a convent to be finished off. The nuns did by specious reasoning what had
been begun by persecution, and young Françoise, at the time she was introduced to Scarron,
was a highly respectable member of 'the only true church.'

Madame d'Aubigné was at this time supporting herself by needlework. Her sad story won the sympathy
of Scarron's guests, who united to relieve her wants. La belle Indienne, as the cripple styled
her, soon became a favourite at his parties, and lost her shyness by degrees. Ninon de l'Enclos,
who did not want heart, took her by the hand, and a friendship thus commenced between that
inveterate Laïs and the future wife of Louis XIV. which lasted till death.

The beauty of Françoise soon brought her many admirers, among whom was even one of Ninon's
slaves; but as marriage was not the object of these attentions, and the young girl would not
relinquish her virtue, she remained for some time unmarried but respectable. Scarron was particularly
fond of her, and well knew that, portionless as she was, the poor girl would have but little
chance of making a match. His kindness touched her, his wit charmed her; she pitied his infirmities,
and as his neighbour, frequently saw and tried to console him. On the other hand the cripple,
though forty years old, and in a state of health which it is impossible to describe, fell positively
in love with the young girl, who alone of all the ladies who visited him combined wit with
perfect modesty. He pitied her destitution. There was mutual pity, and we all know what passion
that feeling is akin to.

Still, for a paralytic, utterly unfit for marriage in any point of view, to offer to a beautiful
young girl, would have seemed ridiculous, if not unpardonable. But let us take into account
the difference in ideas of matrimony between ourselves and the French. We must remember that
marriage has always been regarded among our neighbours as a contract for mutual benefit, into
which the consideration of money of necessity entered largely. It is true that some qualities
are taken as equivalents for actual cash: thus, if a young man has a straight and well-cut
nose he may sell himself at a higher price than a young man there with the hideous pug; if
a girl is beautiful, the marquis will be content with some thousands of francs less for her
dower than if her hair were red or her complexion irreclaimably brown. If Julie has a pretty
foot, a svelte waist, and can play the piano thunderingly, or sing in the charmingest soprano,
her ten thousand francs are quite as acceptable as those of stout awkward, glum-faced Jeannette.
The faultless boots and yellow kids of young Adolphe counterbalance the somewhat apocryphal
vicomté of ill-kempt and ill-attired Henri.

But then there must be some fortune. A Frenchman is so much in the habit of expecting it, that
he thinks it almost a crime to fall in love where there is none. Françoise, pretty, clever,
agreeable as she was, was penniless, and even worse, she was the daughter of a man who had
been imprisoned on suspicion of murder, and a woman who had gained her livelihood by needlework.
All these considerations made the fancy of the merry abbé less ridiculous, and Françoise herself,
being sufficiently versed in the ways of the world to understand the disadvantage under which
she laboured, was less amazed and disgusted than another girl might have been, when, in due
course, the cripple offered her himself and his dumb-waiter. He had little more to give--his
pension, a tiny income from his prebend and his Marquisat de Quinet.

The offer of the little man was not so amusing as other episodes of his life. He went honestly
to work; represented to her what a sad lot would hers be, if Madame de Neuillant died, and
what were the temptations of beauty without a penny. His arguments were more to the point than
delicate, and he talked to the young girl as if she was a woman of the world. Still, she accepted
him, cripple as he was.

Madame de Neuillant made no objection, for she was only too glad to be rid of a beauty, who
ate and drank, but did not marry.

On the making of the contract, Scarron's fun revived. When asked by the notary what was the
young lady's fortune, he replied: 'Four louis, two large wicked eyes, one fine figure, one
pair of good hands, and lots of mind.' 'And what do you give her?' asked the lawyer.--'Immortality,'
replied he, with the air of a bombastic poet 'The names of the wives of kings die with them--that
of Scarron's wife will live for ever!'

His marriage obliged him to give up his canonry, which he sold to Ménage's man-servant, a little
bit of simony which was not even noticed in those days. It is amusing to find a man who laughed
at all religion, insisting that his wife should make a formal avowal of the Romish faith. Of
the character of this marriage we need say no more than that Scarron had at that time the use
of no more than his eyes, tongue, and hands. Yet such was then, as now, the idea of matrimony
in France, that the young lady's friends considered her fortunate.

Scarron in love was a picture which amazed and amused the whole society of Paris, but Scarron
married was still more curious. The queen, when she heard of it, said that Françoise would
be nothing but a useless bit of furniture in his house. She proved not only the most useful
appendage he could have, but the salvation alike of his soul and his reputation. The woman
who charmed Louis XIV. by her good sense, had enough of it to see Scarron's faults, and prided
herself on reforming him as far as it was possible. Her husband had hitherto been the great
Nestor of indelicacy, and when he was induced to give it up, the rest followed his example.
Madame Scarron checked the licence of the abbé's conversation, and even worked a beneficial
change in his mind.

The joviality of their parties still continued. Scarron had always been famous for his petits
soupers, the fashion of which he introduced, but as his poverty would not allow him to give
them in proper style, his friends made a pic-nic of it, and each one either brought or sent
his own dish of ragout, or whatever it might be, and his own bottle of wine. This does not
seem to have been the case after the marriage, however; for it is related as a proof of Madame
Scarron's conversational powers, that, when one evening a poorer supper than usual was served,
the waiter whispered in her ear, 'Tell them another story, Madame, if you please, for we have
no joint to-night.' Still both guests and host could well afford to dispense with the coarseness
of the cripple's talk, which might raise a laugh, but must sometimes have caused disgust, and
the young wife of sixteen succeeded in making him purer both in his conversation and his writings.

The household she entered was indeed a villainous one. Scarron rather gloried in his early
delinquencies, and, to add to this, his two sisters had characters far from estimable. One
of them had been maid of honour to the Princesse de Conti, but had given up her appointment
to become the mistress of the Duc de Trêmes. The laugher laughed even at his sister's dishonour,
and allowed her to live in the same house on a higher étage. When, on one occasion, some one
called on him to solicit the lady's interest with the duke, he coolly said, 'You are mistaken;
it is not I who know the duke; go up to the next storey.' The offspring of this connection
he styled 'his nephews after the fashion of the Marais.' Françoise did her best to reclaim
this sister and to conceal her shame, but the laughing abbé made no secret of it.

But the laugher was approaching his end. His attacks became more and more violent: still he
laughed at them. Once he was seized with a terrible choking hiccup, which threatened to suffocate
him. The first moment he could speak he cried, 'If I get well, I'll write a satire on the hiccup.'
The priests came about him, and his wife did what she could to bring him to a sense of his
future danger. He laughed at the priests and at his wife's fears. She spoke of hell. 'If there
is such a place,' he answered, 'it won't be for me, for without you I must have had my hell
in this life.' The priests told him, by way of consolation, that 'God had visited him more
than any man.'--He does me too much honour,' answered the mocker. 'You should give him thanks,'
urged the ecclesiastic. 'I can't see for what,' was the shameless answer.

On his death-bed he parodied a will, leaving to Corneille 'two hundred pounds of patience;
to Boileau (with whom he had a long feud), the gangrene; and to the Academy, the power to alter
the French language as they liked.' His legacy in verse to his wife is grossly disgusting,
and quite unfit for quotation. Yet he loved her well, avowed that his chief grief in dying
was the necessity of leaving her, and begged her to remember him sometimes, and to lead a virtuous
life.

His last moments were as jovial as any. When he saw his friends weeping around him he shook
his head and cried, 'I shall never make you weep as much as I have made you laugh.' A little
later a softer thought of hope came across him. 'No more sleeplessness, no more gout,' he murmured;
'the Queen's patient will be well at last' At length the laugher was sobered. In the presence
of death, at the gates of a new world, he muttered, half afraid, 'I never thought it was so
easy to laugh at death,' and so expired. This was in October, 1660, when the cripple had reached
the age of fifty.

Thus died a laugher. It is unnecessary here to trace the story of his widow's strange rise
to be the wife of a king. Scarron was no honour to her, and in later years she tried to forget
his existence. Boileau fell into disgrace for merely mentioning his name before the king. Yet
Scarron was in many respects a better man than Louis; and, laugher as he was, he had a good
heart. There is a time for mirth and a time for mourning, the Preacher tells us. Scarron never
learned this truth, and he laughed too much and too long. Yet let us not end the laugher's
life in sorrow:

    'It is well to be merry and wise,' &c.

Let us be merry as the poor cripple, who bore his sufferings so well, and let us be wise too.
There is a lesson for gay and grave in the life of Scarron, the laugher.

The precursor of Saint-Simon, the model of Lord Chesterfield, this ornament of his age, belonged,
as well as Saint-Simon, to that state of society in France which was characterised--as Lord
John Russell, in his 'Memoirs of the Duchess of Orleans,' tells us--by an idolatry of power
and station. 'God would not condemn a person of that rank,' was the exclamation of a lady of
the old régime, on hearing, that a notorious sinner, 'Pair de France,' and one knows not what
else, had gone to his account impenitent and unabsolved; and though the sentiment may strike
us as profane, it was, doubtless, genuine.

Rank, however was often adorned by accomplishments which, like an exemption from rules of conduct,
it almost claimed as a privilege. Good-breeding was a science in France; natural to a peasant,
even, it was studied as an epitome of all the social virtues. 'N'étre pas poli' was the sum
total of all dispraise: a man could only recover from it by splendid valour or rare gifts;
a woman could not hope to rise out of that Slough of Despond to which good-breeding never came.
We were behind all the arts of civilization in England, as François de Rochefoucault (we give
the orthography of the present day) was in his cradle. This brilliant personage, who combined
the wit and the moralist, the courtier and the soldier, the man of literary tastes and the
sentimentalist par excellence, was born in 1613. In addition to his hereditary title of duc,
he had the empty honour, as Saint-Simon calls it, of being Prince de Marsillac, a designation
which was lost in that of De la Rochefoucault--so famous even to the present day. As he presented
himself at the court of the regency, over which Anne of Austria nominally presided, no youth
there was more distinguished for his elegance or for the fame of his exploits during the wars
of the Fronde than this youthful scion of an illustrious house. Endowed by nature with a pleasing
countenance, and, what was far more important in that fastidious region, an air of dignity,
he displayed wonderful contradictions in his character and bearing. He had, says Madame de
Maintenon, 'beaucoup d'esprit, et peu de savoir;' an expressive phrase. 'He was,' she adds,
'pliant in nature, intriguing, and cautious;' nevertheless she never, she declares, possessed
a more steady friend, nor one more confiding and better adapted to advise. Brave as he was,
he held personal valour, or affected to do so, in light estimation. His ambition was to rule
others. Lively in conversation, though naturally pensive, he assembled around him all that
Paris or Versailles could present of wit and intellect.

The old Hôtel de Rochefoucault, in the Rue de Seine, in the Faubourg St. Germain, in Paris,
still grandly recalls the assemblies in which Racine, Boileau, Madame de Sévigné, the La Fayettes,
and the famous Duchesse de Longueville, used to assemble. The time honoured family of De la
Rochefoucault still preside there; though one of its fairest ornaments, the young, lovely,
and pious Duchesse de la Rochefoucault of our time, died in 1852--one of the first known victims
to diphtheria in France, in that unchanged old locality. There, when the De Longuevilles, the
Mazarins, and those who had formed the famous council of state of Anne of Austria had disappeared,
the poets and wits who gave to the age of Louis XIV. its true brilliancy, collected around
the Duc de la Rochefoucault. What a scene it must have been in those days, as Buffon said of
the earth in spring 'tout four-mille de vie!' Let us people the salon of the Hôtel de Rochefoucault
with visions of the past; see the host there, in his chair, a martyr to the gout, which he
bore with all the cheerfulness of a Frenchman, and picture to ourselves the great men who were
handing him his cushion, or standing near his fauteuil.

Racine's joyous face may be imagined as he comes in fresh from the College of Harcourt. Since
he was born in 1639, he had not arrived at his zenith till La Rochefoucault was almost past
his prime. For a man at thirty-six in France can no longer talk prospectively of the departure
of youth; it is gone. A single man of thirty, even in Paris, is 'un vieux garçon:' life begins
too soon and ends too soon with those pleasant sinners, the French. And Racine, when he was
first routed out of Port Royal, where he was educated, and presented to the whole Faubourg
St. Germain, beheld his patron, La Rochefoucault, in the position of a disappointed man. An
early adventure of his youth had humbled, perhaps, the host of the Hôtel de Rochefoucault.
At the battle of St. Antoine, where he had distinguished himself, 'a musket-ball had nearly
deprived him of sight. On this occasion he had quoted these lines, taken from the tragedy of
'Alcyonnée.' It must, however, be premised that the famous Duchess de Longueville had urged
him to engage in the wars of the Fronde. Racine composed, in 1660, his 'Nymphe de Seine,' in
honour of the marriage of Louis XIV., and was then brought into notice of those whose notice
was no empty compliment, such as, in our day, illustrious dukes pay to more illustrious authors,
by asking them to be jumbled in a crowd at a time when the rooks are beginning to caw. We catch,
as they may, the shadow of a dissolving water-ice, or see the exit of an unattainable tray
of negus. No; in the days of Racine, as in those of Halifax and Swift in England, solid fruits
grew out of fulsome praise; and Colbert, then minister, settled a pension of six hundred livres,
as francs were called in those days (twenty-four pounds), on the poet. And with this the former
pupil of Port Royal was fain to be content. Still he was so poor that he almost went into the
church, an uncle offering to resign him a priory of his order if he would become a regular.
He was a candidate for orders, and wore a sacerdotal dress when he wrote the tragedy of 'Theagenes,'
and that of the 'Frères Ennemis,' the subject of which was given him by Molière.

He continued, in spite of a quarrel with the saints of Port Royal, to produce noble dramas
from time to time, but quitted theatrical pursuits after bringing out (in 1677) 'Phèdre,' that
chef-d'oeuvre not only of its author, but, as a performance, of the unhappy but gifted Rachel.
Corneille was old, and Paris looked to Racine to supply his place, yet he left the theatrical
world for ever. Racine had been brought up with deep religious convictions; they could not,
however, preserve him from a mad, unlawful attachment. He loved the actress Champmesle: but
repentance came. He resolved not only to write no more plays, but to do penance for those already
given to the world. He was on the eve of becoming, in his penitence, a Carthusian friar, when
his religious director advised marriage instead. He humbly did as he was told, and united himself
to the daughter of a treasurer for France, of Amiens, by whom he had seven children. It was
only at the request of Madame de Maintenon that he wrote 'Esther' for the convent of St. Cyr,
where it was first acted.

His death was the result of his benevolent, sensitive nature. Having drawn up an excellent
paper on the miseries of the people, he gave it to Madame de Maintenon to read it to the king.
Louis, in a transport of ill-humour, said, 'What! does he suppose because he is a poet that
he ought to be minister of state?' Racine is said to have been so wounded by this speech that
he was attacked by a fever and died. His decease took place in 1699, nineteen years after that
of La Rochefoucault, who died in 1680.

Amongst the circle whom La Rochefoucault loved to assemble were Boileau--Despréaux, and Madame
de Sévigné--the one whose wit and the other whose grace completed the delights of that salon.
A life so prosperous as La Rochefoucault's had but one cloud--the death of his son who was
killed during the passage of the French troops over the Rhine. We attach to the character of
this accomplished man the charms of wit; we may also add the higher attractions of sensibility.
Notwithstanding the worldly and selfish character which is breathed forth in his 'Maxims and
Reflections,' there lay at the bottom of his heart true piety. Struck by the death of a neighbour,
this sentiment seems even on the point of being expressed; but, adds Madame de Sévigné, and
her phrase is untranslatable, 'il n'est pas effleuré.'

All has passed away! the Fronde has become a memory, not a realized idea. Old people shake
their heads, and talk of Richelieu; of his gorgeous palace at Rueil, with its lake and its
prison thereon, and its mysterious dungeons, and its avenues of chestnuts, and its fine statues;
and of its cardinal, smiling, whilst the worm that never dieth is eating into his very heart;
a seared conscience, and playing the fine gentleman to fine ladies in a rich stole, and with
much garniture of costly lace: whilst beneath all is the hair shirt, that type of penitence
and sanctity which he ever wore as a salvo against all that passion and ambition that almost
burst the beating heart beneath that hair shirt. Richelieu has gone to his fathers. Mazarin
comes on the scene; the wily, grasping Italian. He too vanishes; and forth, radiant in youth,
and strong in power, comes Louis, and the reign of politeness and periwigs begins.

The Duc de Saint-Simon, perhaps the greatest portrait-painter of any time, has familiarized
us with the greatness, the littleness, the graces, the defects of that royal actor on the stage
of Europe, whom his own age entitled Louis the Great. A wit, in his writings, of the first
order--if we comprise under the head of wit the deepest discernment, the most penetrating satire--Saint-Simon
was also a soldier, philosopher, a reformer, a Trappist, and, eventually, a devotee. Like all
young men who wished for court favour, he began by fighting: Louis cared little for carpet
knights. He entered, however, into a scene which he has chronicled with as much fidelity as
our journalists do a police report, and sat quietly down to gather observations--not for his
own fame, not even for the amusement of his children or grandchildren--but for the edification
of posterity yet a century afar off his own time. The treasures were buried until 1829.

A word or two about Saint-Simon and his youth. At nineteen he was destined by his mother to
be married. Now every one knows how marriages are managed in France, not only in the time of
Saint-Simon, but even to the present day. A mother or an aunt, or a grandmother, or an experienced
friend, looks out; be it for son, be it for daughter, it is the business of her life. She looks
and she finds: family, suitable; fortune, convenient; person, pas mal; principles, Catholic,
with a due abhorrence of heretics, especially English ones. After a time, the lady is to be
looked at by the unhappy prétendû; a church, a mass, or vespers, being very often the opportunity
agreed. The victim thinks she will do. The proposal is discussed by the two mammas; relatives
are called in; all goes well; the contract is signed; then, a measured acquaintance is allowed:
but no tête-à-têtes; no idea of love. 'What! so indelicate a sentiment before marriage! Let
me not hear of it,' cries mamma, in a sanctimonious panic. 'Love! Quelle bêtise!' adds mon pére.

But Saint-Simon, it seems, had the folly to wish to make a marriage of inclination. Rich, pair
de France, his father--an old roué, who had been page to Louis XIII.--dead, he felt extremely
alone in the world. He cast about to see whom he could select. The Duc de Beauvilliers had
eight daughters; a misfortune, it may be thought, in France or anywhere else. Not at all: three
of the young ladies were kept at home, to be married; the other five were at once disposed
of, as they passed the unconscious age of infancy, in convents. Saint-Simon was, however, disappointed.
He offered, indeed; first for the eldest, who was not then fifteen years old; and finding that
she had a vocation for a conventual life, went on to the third, and was going through the whole
family, when he was convinced that his suit was impossible. The eldest daughter happened to
be a disciple of Fénélon's, and was on the very eve of being vowed to heaven.

Saint-Simon went off to La Trappe, to console himself for his disappointment. There had been
an old intimacy between Monsieur La Trappe and the father of Saint-Simon; and this friendship
had induced him to buy an estate close to the ancient abbey where La Trappe still existed.
The friendship became hereditary; and Saint-Simon, though still a youth, revered and loved
the penitent recluse of Ferté au Vidame, of which Lamartine has written so grand and so poetical
a description.

Let us hasten over his marriage with Mademoiselle de Lorges, who proved a good wife. It was
this time a grandmother, the Maréchale de Lorges, who managed the treaty; and Saint-Simon became
the happy husband of an innocent blonde, with a majestic air, though only fifteen years of
age. Let us hasten on, passing over his presents; his six hundred louis, given in a corbeille
full of what he styles 'gallantries;' his mother's donation of jewellery; the midnight mass,
by which he was linked to the child who scarcely knew him; let us lay all that aside, and turn
to his court life.

At this juncture Louis XIV., who had hitherto dressed with great simplicity, indicated that
he desired his court should appear in all possible magnificence. Instantly the shops were emptied.
Even gold and silver appeared scarcely rich enough. Louis himself planned many of the dresses
for any public occasion. Afterwards he repented of the extent to which he had permitted magnificence
to go, but it was then impossible to check the excess.

Versailles, henceforth in all its grandeur, contains an apartment which is called, from its
situation, and the opportunities it presents of looking down upon the actors of the scene around,
L'OEil de Boeuf. The revelations of the OEil de Boeuf, during the reign of Louis XV., form
one of the most amazing pictures of wickedness, venality, power misapplied, genius polluted,
that was ever drawn. No one that reads that infamous book can wonder at the revolution of 1789.
Let us conceive Saint-Simon to have taken his stand here, in this region, pure in the time
of Louis XIV., comparatively, and note we down his comments on men and women.

He has journeyed up to court from La Trappe, which has fallen into confusion and quarrels,
to which the most saintly precincts are peculiarly liable.

The history of Mademoiselle de la Vallière was not, as he tells us, of his time. He hears of
her death, and so indeed does the king, with emotion. She expired in 1710, in the Rue St. Jacques,
at the Carmelite convent, where, though she was in the heart of Paris, her seclusion from the
world had long been complete. Amongst the nuns of the convent none was so humble, so penitent,
so chastened as this once lovely Louise de la Vallière, now, during a weary term of thirty-five
years, 'Marie de la Miséricorde.' She had fled from the scene of her fall at one-and-thirty
years of age. Twice had she taken refuge among the 'blameless vestals,' whom she envied as
the broken-spirited envy the passive. First, she escaped from the torture of witnessing the
king's passion for Madame de Montespan, by hiding herself among the Benedictine sisters at
St. Cloud. Thence the king fetched her in person, threatening to order the cloister to be burnt.
Next, Lauzun, by the command of Louis, sought her, and brought her avec main forte. The next
time she fled no more; but took a public farewell of all she had too fondly loved, and throwing
herself at the feet of the queen, humbly entreated her pardon. Never since that voluntary sepulture
had she ceased, during those long and weary years, to lament--as the heart-stricken can alone
lament--her sins. In deep contrition she learned the death of her son by the king, and bent
her head meekly beneath the chastisement.

Three years before her death the triumphant Athénée de Montespan had breathed her last at Bourbon.
If Louis XIV. had nothing else to repent of, the remorse of these two women ought to have wrung
his heart. Athénée de Montespan was a youthful, innocent beauty, fresh from the seclusion of
provincial life, when she attracted the blighting regards of royalty. A fête was to be given;
she saw, she heard that she was its object. She entreated her husband to take her back to his
estate in Guyenne, and to leave her there till the king had forgotten her. Her husband, in
fatal confidence, trusted her resistance, and refused her petition. It was a life-long sorrow;
and he soon found his mistake. He lived and died passionately attached to his wife, but never
saw her after her fall.

When she retired from court, to make room for the empire of the subtle De Maintenon, it was
her son, the Duc de Maine, who induced her, not from love, but from ambition, to withdraw.
She preserved, even in her seclusion in the country, the style of a queen, which she had assumed.
Even her natural children by the king were never allowed to sit in her presence, on a fauteuil,
but were only permitted to have small chairs. Every one went to pay her court, and she spoke
to them as if doing them an honour; neither did she ever return a visit, even from the royal
family. Her fatal beauty endured to the last: nothing could exceed her grace, her tact, her
good sense in conversation, her kindness to every one.

But it was long before her restless spirit could find real peace. She threw herself on the
guidance of the Abbé de la Tour; for the dread of death was ever upon her. He suggested a terrible
test of her penitence. It was, that she should entreat her husband's pardon, and return to
him. It was a fearful struggle with herself, for she was naturally haughty and high spirited;
but she consented. After long agonies of hesitation, she wrote to the injured man. Her letter
was couched in the most humble language; but it received no reply. The Marquis de Montespan,
through a third person, intimated to her that he would neither receive her, nor see her, nor
hear her name pronounced. At his death she wore widow's weeds; but never assumed his arms,
nor adopted his liveries.

Henceforth, all she had was given to the poor. When Louis meanly cut down her pension, she
sent word that she was sorry for the poor, not for herself; they would be the losers. She then
humbled herself to the very dust: wore the hardest cloth next her fair skin; had iron bracelets;
and an iron girdle, which made wounds on her body. Moreover, she punished the most unruly members
of her frame: she kept her tongue in bounds; she ceased to slander; she learned to bless. The
fear of death still haunted her; she lay in bed with every curtain drawn, the room lighted
up with wax candles; whilst she hired watchers to sit up all night, and insisted that they
should never cease talking or laughing, lest, when she woke, the fear of death might come over
her affrighted spirit.

She died at last after a few hours' illness, having just time to order all her household to
be summoned, and before them to make a public confession of her sins. As she lay expiring,
blessing God that she died far away from the children of her adulterous connection, the Comte
d'Antin, her only child by the Marquis de Montespan, arrived. Peace and trust had then come
at last to the agonized woman. She spoke to him about her state of mind, and expired.

To Madame de Maintenon the event would, it was thought, be a relief: yet she wept bitterly
on hearing of it. The king showed, on the contrary, the utmost indifference, on learning that
one whom he had once loved so much was gone for ever.

All has passed away! The OEil de Boeuf is now important only as being pointed out to strangers;
Versailles is a show-place, not a habitation. Saint-Simon, who lived until 1775, was truly
said to have turned his back on the new age, and to live in the memories of a former world
of wit and fashion. He survived until the era of the 'Encyclopédie' of Voltaire, and Jean-Jacques
Rousseau. He lived, indeed, to hear that Montesquieu was no more. How the spirit of Louis XIV.
spoke in his contemptuous remarks on Voltaire, whom he would only call Arouet; 'The son of
my father's and my own notary.'

At length, after attaining his eightieth year, the chronicler, who knew the weaknesses, the
vices, the peculiarities of mankind, even to a hair's breadth, expired; having long given up
the court and occupied himself, whilst secluded in his country seat, solely with the revising
and amplification of his wonderful Memoirs.

No works, it has been remarked, since those of Sir Walter Scott, have excited so much sensation
as the Memoirs of his own time, by the soldier, ambassador, and Trappist, Duc de Saint-Simon.

     1. The following typos were corrected:
        narative//narrative
        Rochoucault's//Rochefoucault's
        Ormonde's//Ormond's
        Gramont//Grammont
        Warmistre//Warmestre
        Frederic//Frederick
     2. The various spellings of Shakespeare//Shakespere//Shakspeare
        and Dutchess//Duchess in the original text were retained.
     3. The year Mary Fairfax and George Villiers, the
        2nd Duke of Buckingham, were married is transposed
        from 1657 to 1675 in the original text. The day also
        appears to be in error (6th->15th).