On which side did the responsibility for the war rest? National prejudices have complicated
the question. English historians have seen in the aggression of Philip in Gascony, his intervention
in Scottish affairs, and the buccaneering exploits of the Norman mariners, reasons adequate
to provoke the patience even of a peace-loving monarch. French writers, unable to deny these
facts, have insisted upon the slowness of Philip to requite provocation, his servile deference
to papal authority, his willingness to negotiate, and his dislike to take offence even at the
denial of his right to the crown which he wore. Either king seems hesitating and reluctant
when looked at from one point of view, and pertinaciously aggressive when regarded from the
opposite standpoint. It is safer to conclude that the war was inevitable than to endeavour
to apportion the blame which is so equally to be divided between the two monarchs. The modern
eye singles out Edward's baseless claim and makes him the aggressor, but there was little,
as the best French historians admit, in Edward's pretension that shocked the idea of justice
in those days. Moreover this view, held too absolutely, is confuted by the secondary position
taken by the claim during the negotiations which preceded hostilities. If in the conduct of
the preliminaries we may assign to Edward the credit of superior insight, more resolute policy,
and a more clearly perceived goal, the intellectual superiority, which he possessed over his
rival, was hardly balanced by any special moral obliquity on his part; though to Philip, with
all his weakness, must always be given the sympathy provoked by the defence of his land against
the foreign invader. It is useless to refine the issue further. The situation had become impossible,
and fighting was the only way out of the difficulty.

In the late summer of 1339 Edward III. was at last able to take the offensive against France.
During the negotiations England strained every effort to provide her absent sovereign with
men and money, but neither the troops nor the supplies were adequate. The army which assembled
in September in the neighbourhood of Brussels consisted largely of imperial vassals, hired
by the English King, and clamorous for the regular payment of their wages. Already Edward told
his ministers that, had not "a good friend in Flanders" advanced him a large sum, he would
have been obliged to return with shame to England. As it was, enough was raised to set the
unwieldy host in motion, and on September 20 he marched from Valenciennes, and thence advanced
into the bishopric of Cambrai, whose lord, though an imperial vassal, had declared for France
and the papacy.

The rolling uplands of the Cambrésis were devastated with fire and sword. One night an English
baron took the Cardinal Bertrand, who with his comrade Peter still accompanied Edward's host,
to the summit of a high tower, whence they could witness the flaming homesteads and villages
of the fertile and populous district. In that woeful spectacle the churchman saw the futility
of his last two years of constant labour, and fell in a swoon to the ground. But the confederates
could do little more than devastate the open country. Cambrai itself was besieged to no purpose,
and Edward pressed on to the invasion of France. On October g he spent his first night on French
soil at the abbey of Mont Saint-Martin. He learnt how slender was the tie which bound his foreign
allies to him, for his brother-in-law, William of Hainault, refused to serve, except on imperial
soil, against his uncle Philip VI. Consoled for this defection by the arrival of the sluggish
Duke of Brabant and of the Elector of Brandenburg, the eldest son of the emperor, Edward marched
through the Vermandois, the Soissonais, and the Laonnais, burning and devastating, without
meeting any serious resistance. Philip of Valois timidly held aloof in the neighbourhood of
Péronne.

By the middle of October, when Edward was near St. Quentin on the Oise, the Duke of Brabant
suggested the expediency of seeking out winter quarters. The slow-moving host was almost in
mutiny, when the master crossbowman of the King of France brought a challenge from his lord.
"Let the King of England," ran the message, "seek out a field favourable for a pitched battle,
where there is neither wood, nor marsh, nor river." Edward cheerfully accepted a day for the
combat, and chose his ground higher up the Oise valley, among the green meadowlands and hedgerows
of the Thiérache. The appointed day passed by, and the French came not. At last, when Edward
almost despaired of a meeting, he was told that the French were arrayed at Buironfosse, on
the plateau between the Oise and the upper Sambre, and that Philip was ready to fight the next
day, Saturday, October 23. Edward once more chose a suitable field of action in a plain between
La Flamangrie and Buironfosse, a league and a half from the French. "On the Saturday," wrote
Edward to his son in England, "we were in the field, a full quarter of an hour before dawn,
and took up our position in a fitting place to fight. In the early morning some of the enemy's
scouts were taken, and they told us that his advanced guard was in battle array and coming
out towards us. The news having come to our host, our allies, though they had hitherto borne
themselves somewhat sluggishly, were in truth of such loyal intent that never were folk of
such goodwill to fight. In the meantime one of our scouts, a knight of Germany, was taken,
and he showed all our array to the enemy. Thereupon the foe withdrew his van, gave orders to
encamp, made trenches around him, and cut down large trees in order to prevent us from approaching
him. We tarried all day on foot in order of battle, until towards evening it seemed to our
allies that we had waited long enough. And at vespers we mounted our horses and went near to
Avesnes, and made him to know that we would await him there all the Sunday. On the Monday morning
we had news that the lord Philip had withdrawn. And so would our allies no longer afterwards
abide."

Thus ended the inglorious campaign of the Thiérache. Edward returned to Brussels "like a fox
to his hole," and each side denounced the other for failing to keep the appointed tryst. The
chivalry of the fourteenth century saw something ignoble in the sluggishness of Philip; but
no modern soldier would blame him for his inactivity. Without striking a blow, he obtained
the object of his campaign, for the enemy abandoned French territory. Had Edward been fully
confident of victory, he could easily have forced a battle by advancing on Buironfosse; but
he preferred to run the risk of a fiasco rather than abandon the defensive tactics on which
he relied. Thus, even from the chivalrous point of view, he was by no means blameless. From
the material standpoint, his first French campaign was a failure. It left its only mark on
the devastated countryside, the beggared peasantry, the desolated churches and monasteries,
the farmsteads and villages burnt to ashes.

Edward seemed ruined both in reputation and purse. He had exhausted his resources in meeting
the extravagant demands of his allies, and their help had profited him nothing at all. Yet
his inexhaustible energy opened up a surer means of foreign assistance than had been supplied
by the unruly vassals of Louis of Bavaria. At the moment when the imperial alliance was tried
and found wanting, the way was opened up for close friendship between Edward and the Flemish
cities. In earlier years the chivalrous devotion of Louis of Nevers to his overlord had secured
the political dependence of Flanders upon the King of France. If the action of their count
made the Flemings the tools of French policy, their commercial necessities bound them to England
by chains forged by nature itself. Alone of the lands of northern and western Europe, Flanders
was not a self-sufficing economic community.[1] Its great ports and weaving towns depended
for their customers on foreign markets, and the raw material of their staple manufacture was
mainly derived from England. When in 1337 Edward prohibited the export of wool to Flanders,
his action at once brought about the same result that the cessation of the supplies of American
cotton would cause in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire. A wool famine, like the Lancashire
cotton famine of 1862-65, plunged Ghent, Ypres, and Bruges into grievous distress. The starving
weavers wandered through the farms begging their bread, and, when charity at home proved inadequate,
they exposed their rags and their misery in the chief cities of northern France. Even wealthy
merchants felt the pinch of the crisis which ruined the small craftsmen.

    [1] See for this Pirenne, Histoire de Belgique, vols. i. and
    ii., and Lamprecht, Deutsche Geschichte, iii., 304-324, and
    iv., 134-142.

A common desire to avoid calamity bound together the warring classes and rival districts of
Flanders, as they had never been united before. Bruges and Ypres had borne the brunt of earlier
struggles, and had not even yet recovered from the exhaustion of the wars of the early years
of the century. Their exhaustion left the way open to Ghent, where the old patricians and the
rich merchants, the weavers and the fullers, forgot their ancient rivalries and worked together
to remedy the crisis. A wealthy landholder and merchant-prince of Ghent, James van Artevelde,
made himself the spokesman of all classes of that great manufacturing city. He was no demagogue
nor artisan, though his eloquence and force had wonderful power over the impressionable craftsmen
of the trading guilds. He was no Netherlandish patriot, as some moderns have imagined, though
he was anxious to unite Flanders with her neighbour states, on the broad basis of their identity
of economic and political interests. A man of Ghent, above all things, his policy was to save
the imperilled industries of his native town, and to make it the centre of a new movement for
the vindication of commercial liberty against feudal domination. By the winter of 1337 this
rich capitalist allied himself with the turbulent democracy of the weavers' guilds, and put
himself at the head of affairs. Early in 1338 he began to negotiate with Edward III., and his
loans to the distressed monarch had the result of removing the embargo on English wool. The
famished craftsmen hailed the enemy of their class as a god who had come down from heaven for
their salvation.

Louis of Nevers and Philip of Valois took the alarm. Seeing in the ascendency of Artevelde
the certainty that Flanders would join the English alliance, they left no stone unturned to
avoid so dire a calamity. Artevelde, conscious of the narrow basis of his own authority, was
prudent enough to be moderate. Instead of pressing the English alliance to a conclusion, he
accepted the suggestion of Philip VI., that Flanders should remain neutral. Louis of Nevers
hated the notion; but in June, 1338, Edward and Philip agreed to recognise Flemish neutrality,
and he was forced to acquiesce in it. Both monarchs promised to avoid Flemish territory, and
offered free commercial relations between Flanders and their respective dominions.

Artevelde and the men of Ghent were the real masters of Flanders. They kept their count in
scarcely veiled captivity, forcing him to wear the Flemish colours and to profess acceptance
of the policy that he disliked. In such circumstances the neutrality of Flanders could not
last long. Both Edward and Artevelde regarded it simply as a step towards a declared alliance.
Before long Philip became uneasy, and lavished concession on concession to keep the dominant
party true to its promises. He gave up the degrading conditions which since the treaty of Athis
had secured the subjection of Flanders. But Edward could offer more than his rival. He proposed
to the count and the "good towns" of Ghent, Bruges, and Ypres that, in return for their alliance,
he would aid them to win back the towns of Lille, Douai, Béthune, and Tournai, which the French
king had usurped from the Flemings, as well as the county of Artois, which had been separated
from Flanders since the days of Philip Augustus. He also offered ample commercial privileges,
the establishment of the staple of wool at Bruges as well as at Antwerp, free trade for Flemish
cloth with the English markets, and a good and fixed money which was to be legal tender in
Flanders, Brabant, France, and England. The Flemings demanded in return that Edward, by formally
assuming the title of King of France, should stand to them as their liege lord, and thus free
themselves and their count from the ecclesiastical penalties and dishonour involved in their
waging war against a king of France. Late in 1339, these terms were mutually accepted, and
Count Louis avoided further humiliations by flight into France.

In January, 1340, Edward entered Flemish territory and was magnificently entertained in the
abbey of Saint Bavon at Ghent. "The three towns of Flanders," declared Artevelde to his guest,
"are ready to recognise you as their sovereign lord, provided that you engage yourself to defend
them." The deputies of the three towns took oaths to Edward as their suzerain, and thereupon
Edward was proclaimed King of France with much ceremony in the Friday market of Ghent. A new
great seal was fashioned and new royal arms assumed, in which the lilies of France were quartered
with the leopards of England. The new regnal year of Edward, which began on January 25, was
styled the fourteenth of his reign in England, and the first of his reign in France. Urgent
affairs called Edward back to his kingdom, but his debts to the Flemings were already so heavy
that they only consented to his departure on his pledging himself to return before Michaelmas
day, and on his leaving as hostages his queen, his two sons, and two earls. At last, on February
20, he crossed over from Sluys to Orwell. He had been absent from home for nearly a year and
a half.

From February 21 to June 22, 1340, Edward remained in England. During that period, formal treaties
with the Flemings confirmed the hasty negotiations of Ghent. Benedict XII, still pursued Edward
with remonstrances. He warned the English king to have no trust in allies like the Flemings,
who had shamefully driven away their natural lords and whose faithlessness and inconstancy
were by-words. He told him that his strength was not enough to conquer France, and reproached
him with calling himself king of a land of which he possessed nothing. Somewhat inconsistently,
he offered his mediation between Edward and Philip. But Philip was only less weary than Edward
of the self-seeking pontiff. Benedict was forced to drink the cup of humiliation, for after
the rejection of his mediation, he was confronted with a proposal that the schismatic Bavarian
should arbitrate between the two crowns. Meanwhile, after many delays, Edward embarked a gallant
army on a fleet of 200 ships, and on June 22 a favourable west wind bore them from the Orwell
towards Flanders. On arriving next day off Blankenberghe, he learned that a formidable French
squadron was anchored in the mouth of the Zwyn, and that he could only land in Flanders as
the reward of victory.

From the outbreak of hostilities in 1337, there had been a good deal of fighting by sea, and
in the first stages of warfare the advantage lay with the French. Since the days of Edward
I., and Philip the Fair, the maritime energies of the two countries had developed at an almost
equal rate, and the parallel growth had been marked by bitter rivalry between the seamen of
the two nations. The Normans had taken the leading share in this expansion of the French navy.[1]
They welcomed the outbreak of war with enthusiasm, as giving them a chance of measuring their
forces with their hated foes. Alone among the provinces of France, Normandy seems already to
have experienced that intense national bitterness against the English which was soon to spread
to all the rest of the country. Not content with the vigorous war of corsairs which had inflicted
so much mischief on our southern coast and on English shipping, the Normans formed bold designs
of a new Norman Conquest of England, and in return for the permanent establishment of the local
estates of Normandy, agreed with Philip and his son John, who bore the title of Duke of Normandy,
to equip a large fleet and army, with which England was to be invaded in the summer of 1339.
Normandy, which monopolised the glory, was to monopolise the spoil. If England were conquered,
Duke John, like Duke William before him, was to be King of England as well as Duke of Normandy.
Thus the aggressions of Edward in France were to be answered by Norman aggressions in England.[2]

    [1] C. de la Roncière, Hist, de la Marine Française; of.
    Nicolas, Hist, of the Royal Navy.

    [2] See on this subject A. Coville, Les États de Normandie,
    pp. 41-52 (1894).

Nothing came of this grandiose project, though the burning ruins of Southampton, the capture
of the great Christopher, which had borne Edward in 1338 to Antwerp, and the occupation of
the Channel Islands--the last remnants of the old duchy still under English rule--showed that
the Normans were in earnest. The chief result of their energy was the equipment of the strongest
French fleet that had ever been seen in the Channel. Though a few Genoese galleys under Barbavera
and a few great Spanish ships swelled the number of the armada, 160 of the 200 ships that formed
the fleet were Norman.[1] Of the two Frenchmen in command, one, Hugh Quièret, was a Picard
knight, but the other, the more popular, was Nicholas Béhuchet, a Norman of humble birth, then
a knight and the chief confidant of Philip VI. Quièret and Béhuchet had long challenged the
command of the narrow seas. But for their error of dividing their forces and preferring a piratical
war of reprisals, they might have cut off communications between England and the Netherlands.
They had learnt wisdom by experience, and their ships were massed in Zwyn harbour to prevent
the passage of Edward to his new allies.

    [1] S. Luce, La Marine normande à l'Écluse, in La France
    pendant la Guerre de Cent Ans, 3-31.

The coast-line between Blankenberghe and the mouth of the Scheldt was strangely different in
the fourteenth century from what it is at present.[1] The sandy flats, through which the Zwyn
now trickles to the sea, formed a large open harbour, accessible to the biggest ships then
known. It was protected on the north by the island of Cadzand, the scene of Manny's exploit
in 1337, while at its head stood the town of Sluys, so called from the locks, or sluices, that
regulated the waters of the ship canal, which bore to the great mart of Bruges the merchantmen
of every land. It was in this harbour that Edward, on arriving off Blankenberghe, first spied
the fleet of Quièret and Béhuchet. He anchored at sea for the night, and on the afternoon of
June 24, the anniversary of Bannockburn, he bore down on the French, having the sun, the tide,
and the wind in his favour. On his approach Barbavera urged that the French should take to
the open sea; but Quièret and Béhuchet preferred to fight in the harbour. As an unsatisfactory
compromise, however, the French moved a mile or so towards the enemy. Then they lashed their
ships together and awaited attack.

    [1] For this see Professor Tait's inset map of the district in
    Oxford Historical Atlas, plate lvi.

The English, unable to break the serried mass of their enemies, feigned a retreat, whereupon
the Normans unlashed their ships and hurried in pursuit into the open water. At once the English
turned and met them. The battle began when the English admiral, Robert Morley, lay alongside
the Christopher, which, after its capture, had been taken into the enemy's service. Soon the
ships of both fleets were closely grappled together in a fierce hand-to-hand fight which lasted
until after nightfall. The desperate eagerness of the combatants strangely contrasted with
the slackness of the campaign in the Thiérache. "This battle," says Froissart, "was right fierce
and horrible, for battles by sea are more dangerous and fiercer than battles by land, for at
sea there is no retreat nor fleeing; there is no remedy but to fight and abide fortune, and
every man to show his prowess." In the end the English won an overwhelming victory, which was
completed next morning after more hard fighting. During the night Barbavera and his Genoese
put to sea and escaped, but the magnificent Norman fleet was in the hands of the victor. The
English loss was small, though it included Thomas of Monthermer, a son of Joan of Acre, and
Edward himself was wounded in the thigh. The Norman force was almost annihilated. Quièret fell
mortally wounded into Edward's hands; Béhuchet was captured unhurt. A later Norman legend tells
how Béhuchet, when brought before the English king, answered some taunt by boxing the king's
ears, whereupon the angry monarch hanged him forthwith from the mast of his ship.[1] But the
tradition is unsupported by English authorities, and, with all his faults, Edward was not the
man to deal thus with a captive knight who had fought his best. Master at last of the sea,
Edward landed at Sluys amidst the rejoicings of the Flemings, and made his way to Ghent, where
he greeted his wife, and first saw his infant son John, born during his absence, to whom Artevelde
stood as godfather.

    [1] Luce, Le Soufflet de l'Écluse, in La Frame pendant la
    Guerre de Cent Ans, 2nd série, pp. 3-15.

Edward's military fame was established over all Europe, and, says the Flemish writer, John
van Klerk, "all who spoke the German tongue rejoiced at the defeat of the French". Yet the
victory at Sluys was the prelude to a land campaign as ineffective as the raid into the Thiérache.
Eager to restore their lost lands to the Flemings, Edward made the mistake of dividing his
army. He sent Robert of Artois to effect the reconquest of Artois, while he himself besieged
Tournai, which was then in French hands. Robert's attempt to win back the lands of his ancestors
was a sorry failure. Defeated outside Saint Omer, he was unable even to invest that town. Almost
equally unsuccessful was Edward's siege of Tournai, which resisted with such energy that he
was soon at the end of his resources. At last, in despair, Edward challenged Philip VI. to
decide their claim to France by single combat. The Valois answered that he would gladly do
so if, in the event of his winning, he might obtain Edward's kingdom. In the same spirit of
caution, Philip tarried half-way between Saint Omer and Tournai, watching both armies and afraid
to strike at either. The armies wore themselves out in this game of waiting until the widowed
Countess of Hainault, then abbess of the Cistercian nuns of Fontenelles, was moved by the desolation
of the country to intervene between the two kings. The mother of the Queen of England and the
sister of the King of France, she succeeded not only by reason of her prayers, but through
the refusal of the Duke of Brabant, the Count of Hainault, and the other imperial vassals to
remain longer at the war. On September 25, 1340, a truce was signed at the solitary chapel
of Esplechin, situated in the open country a little south of Tournai. By it hostilities between
both kings and their respective allies were suspended, until midsummer day, 1341. Each king
was to enjoy the lands actually in his possession, and commerce was to be carried on as if
peace had been made. The most significant clause of the truce was that by which both kings
pledged themselves that they "procure not that any innovation be done by the Church of Rome,
or by others of Holy Church on either of the said kings. And if our most holy father the pope
will do that, the two kings shall prevent it, so far as in them lies."

The truce of Esplechin, renewed until 1345, put an end to the first, or Netherlandish, period
of the Hundred Years' War. The imperial alliance, which had failed Edward, was soon to be solemnly
dissolved. Early in 1341, Louis of Bavaria revoked Edward's vicariate, and announced his intention
of becoming henceforth the friend of his uncle, the King of France. This alliance between Philip
and Louis completed the discomfiture of Benedict XII. In 1342 he died, and his successor was
Peter Roger, the sometime Archbishop of Rouen, who assumed the title of Clement VI. By persuading
Brabant and Hainault to be neutral between France and England, the new pontiff broke up the
last remnant of the Anglo-imperial alliance. Even Flanders and England became estranged. Artevelde,
who found it a hard matter to govern Flanders after the truce, would willingly have supported
Edward. But Edward had henceforth less need of Artevelde than Artevelde had of him. In 1345
Edward again appeared at Sluys and had an interview with him, and then returned to his own
country without setting foot on Flemish soil. Artevelde soon afterwards met his death in a
popular tumult. His family fled to England, where they lived on a pension from Edward. This
was the end of the Anglo-Flemish alliance.

After the treaty of Esplechin, Edward returned to Ghent. The conclusion of military operations
was a signal to all his creditors to clamour for immediate settlement of their debts. Neither
subsidies nor wool came from England, though the king wrote in piteous terms to his council.
Edward was convinced that the real cause of his failure was the remissness of the home government,
and resolved to wreak his vengeance on his ministers. He was encouraged to this effect by Bishop
Burghersh, who still remembered his old feuds with Archbishop Stratford, and may well have
believed that the archbishop, who had a financier's dread of war, had wilfully ruined his rival's
diplomacy. But Edward dared not openly return to England, for his Flemish creditors regarded
his personal presence as the best security for his debts. He was therefore reduced to the pitiful
expedient of running away from them. One day he rode out of Ghent on the pretext of taking
exercise, and hurried secretly and without escort to Sluys. Thence he took ship for England,
and, after a tempestuous voyage of three days and nights, sailed up the Thames, and landed
at the Tower on November 30, 1340, after nightfall. At cockcrow next morning, he summoned his
ministers before him, denounced them as false traitors and drove them all from office. The
judges were thrown into prison, and with them some of the leading merchants, including William
de la Pole of Hull. A special commission, like that of 1289, scrutinised the acts of the royal
officials throughout the kingdom, and exacted heavy fines from the many who were found wanting.
Nothing but fear of provoking the wrath of the Church prevented Edward from consigning to prison
the dismissed chancellor, Robert Stratford, Bishop of Chichester, and the late treasurer, Roger
Northburgh, Bishop of Coventry. Their successors were lay knights, the new chancellor, Sir
Robert Bourchier, being the first keeper of the great seal who was not a clerk.

Earlier in the year the king had quarrelled with Archbishop Stratford, who resigned the chancellorship.
But before Edward sailed from Orwell in June there had been a partial reconciliation, and the
king left Stratford president of the council during his absence. When his brother and colleagues
were dismissed, the archbishop was at Charing. Conscious that he was the chief object of Edward's
vengeance, he at once took sanctuary with the monks of his cathedral. Every effort was made
to drag him from his refuge. Some Louvain merchants, to whom he had bound himself for the king's
debts, demanded that he should be surrendered to their custody until the money was paid. He
was summoned to court and afterwards to parliament. But he prudently remained safe within the
walls of Christ Church, and preached a course of sermons to the monks, in which he compared
himself to St. Thomas of Canterbury, and hinted at the danger of his incurring his prototype's
fate. Edward replied to this challenge by a lengthy pamphlet, called the libellus famosus.
The violence and unmeasured terms of the tractate suggest the hand of Bishop Orleton, Stratford's
lifelong foe, who had by Burghersh's recent death become the most prominent of the courtly
prelates. The archbishop was declared to be the sole cause of the king's failures. He had left
Edward without funds, and in trusting to him the king had leant on a broken reed. Stratford
justified himself in another sermon in which he invited inquiry and demanded trial by his peers.

Edward so far relented as to issue letters of safe-conduct enabling the archbishop to attend
the parliament summoned for April 23, 1341. But when Stratford took his place, the king refused
to meet him, and ordered him to answer in the exchequer the complaints brought against him.
The lords upheld the primate's cause, and declared that in no circumstances could a peer of
parliament be brought to trial elsewhere than in full parliament. Edward's fury abated when
he saw that he would get no grant unless he gave way. He restored Stratford to his favour,
and acceded to his request that he should answer in parliament and not in the exchequer. The
childish controversy ended with the personal victory of the primate and the formal re-assertion
of the important principle of trial by peers. But not even then was Edward able to get a subsidy.
He was further forced to embody in the statute of the year the doctrines that auditors of the
accounts of the royal officers should be elected in parliament, and that all ministers should
be chosen by the king, after consultation with his estates, and should resign their offices
at each meeting of parliament and be prepared to answer all complaints before it.

Thus the fallen minister brought the estates the greatest triumph over the prerogative won
during Edward's reign. Before long Edward was magnanimous enough to resume friendly relations
with him, but he was never suffered to take a prominent part in politics. He died in 1348,
after spending his later years in the business of his see. It was a strange irony of fate that
this worldly and politic ecclesiastic should have perforce become the champion of the rights
of the Church and the liberties of the nation. His victory established a remarkable solidarity
between the high ecclesiastical party and the popular opposition, which was to last nearly
as long as the century. Disgust at this alliance moved Edward to take up the anti-clerical
attitude which henceforth marks the policy of the crown until the accession of the house of
Lancaster.

The victory of the estates of 1341 was too complete to last. For a medieval king to hand over
the business of government to a nominated ministry was in substance a return to the state of
things in 1258 or 1312. Edward was not the sort of man to endure the thraldom that his father
and great-grandfather had both found intolerable. Even at the moment of sealing the statute,
he and his ministers protested that they were not bound to observe laws contrary to the constitution
of the realm. Five months later, on October 1, 1341, the king issued letters, revoking the
laws of the previous session. "We have never," he impudently declared, "really given our consent
to the aforesaid pretended statute. But inasmuch as our rejecting it would have dissolved parliament
in confusion, without any business having been transacted, and so all our affairs would have
been ruined, we dissembled, as was our duty, and allowed the pretended statute to be sealed."
For more than two years he did not venture to face a parliament, but the next gathering of
the estates in April, 1343, repealed the offensive acts of 1341. Parliament was so reluctant
to ratify the king's high-handed action, that he did not venture to ask it for any extraordinary
grant of money. The only other important act of this parliament was a petition from lords and
commons, urging the king to check the claims of a French pope, friendly to the "tyrant of France,"
to exercise ever-increasing rights of patronage over English benefices. The anti-clerical tide
was still flowing.

Before parliament met in 1343, the French war had been renewed on another pretext. A new source
of trouble arose in a disputed succession to the duchy of Brittany. The duke John III., the
grandson of John II. and Edward I.'s sister Beatrice, died in April, 1341. He left no legitimate
children, and his succession was claimed by his half-brother, John of Montfort, and his niece
Joan of Penthièvre. Montfort, the son of Duke Arthur II. by his second wife, had inherited
from his mother the Norman county of Montfort l'Amaury, which became her possession as the
representative on the spindle side of the line of Simon de Montfort the Albigensian crusader.
Joan was the daughter of Guy, John III.'s brother of the full blood, in whose favour the great
county of Penthièvre-Tréguier, including the whole of the north coast of the duchy from the
river of Morlaix to within a few miles of the Rance, had been dissociated from the demesne
and reconstituted as an appanage.[1] The heiress of Penthièvre thus ruled directly over nearly
a sixth of Brittany, and her power was further strengthened by her marriage with Charles of
Blois, who, though a younger son, enjoyed great influence as the sister's son of Philip VI.,
and also by reason of his simple, saintly, honourable, and martial character. The house of
Penthièvre not only stood to Brittany as the house of Lancaster stood to England, as the natural
head of the higher nobility; it also enjoyed the favour and protection of the French king,
who was ever anxious to find friends among the chief sub-tenants of his great vassals. Against
so formidable an opponent John of Montfort could only secure his rights by promptitude. Accordingly
he made his way to Nantes and, receiving a warm welcome from his burgesses, proclaimed himself
duke. Very few of the great feudatories threw in their lot with him. His strength was in the
petty noblesse, the townsmen, and the enthusiasm of the Celtic population of La Brétagne bretonnante,
which made Léon, Cornouailles, and Vannes the strongholds of his cause. Yet the Penthièvre
influence took with it the Breton-speaking inhabitants of the diocese of Tréguier, and the
piety of Charles made the clergy, and especially the friars, devoted to him.

    [1] On the importance of Penthièvre, see A. de la Borderie, La
    Géographie feodale de la Brétagne (1889), pp. 60-65.

The fight was not waged in Brittany only. Montfort had to contend against the general sentiment
of the French nobility and the strong interest and affection which bound Philip VI. to uphold
the claims of Charles of Blois. After a few months the parliament of Paris decided in favour
of the king's nephew against Montfort. Charles's wife was the nearest heir of the deceased
duke, and had therefore a prior claim over her uncle. Montfort urged in vain that the superior
rights of the male, which had made the Count of Valois King of France, equally gave the Count
of Montfort the duchy of Brittany. He had to fight for his duchy. John, Duke of Normandy, the
heir of France, marched to Brittany with a strong force, to secure the establishment of his
cousin in accordance with the decree of parliament. The union of the royal troops, with the
levies of Penthièvre and the great feudatories of Brittany, was too powerful a combination
to withstand. Montfort was shut up in Nantes, was forced to capitulate, and sent prisoner to
Paris. His place was taken by his wife, Joan of Flanders, a daughter of Louis of Nevers. This
lady shewed "the heart of a man and of a lion," as Froissart says. Her efforts, however, did
not prevail against her formidable enemies. Bit by bit she was driven from one stronghold to
another, until at last she was closely besieged in Hennebont by Charles of Blois. Before that,
she had recognised Edward as King of France, and offered him the homage of her husband and
son. Edward III. readily took up the cause of Montfort. He recked little of the inconsistency
involved in the prince, who claimed France through his mother, supporting in Brittany a duke,
whose pretensions were based upon grounds similar to the claim advanced by Philip of Valois
on the French throne. As in Flanders, he found two rival nations contending in the bosom of
a single French fief. He at once supported the Celtic party in Brittany as he had supported
the Flemish party in Flanders. Both his allies had the same enemies in feudalism, the French
monarchy, and the pretensions of high clericalism. Afraid to renew the attack in France without
allies, Edward welcomed the support of the Montfort party, as giving him a chance of renewing
his assaults on his adversary of Valois. He invested Montfort with the earldom of Richmond,
of which John III had died possessed. He sent Sir Walter Manny with a force sufficient to raise
the siege of Hennebont. The heroic Joan of Flanders was almost at the end of her resources,
when on an early June morning, in 1342, she espied the white sails of Manny's fleet working
its way from the sea up the estuary of the Blavet, which bathes the walls of Hennebont. After
the arrival of the English, Charles of Blois abandoned the siege in despair. For the rest of
the year the war was waged on a more equal footing. In August Edward sent to Brest an additional
force under William Bohun, Earl of Northampton, who attempted, though with little success,
to invade the domains of the house of Penthièvre. A hard-won victory against great odds near
Morlaix was made memorable by Northampton's first applying the tactics of Halidon Hill to a
pitched battle on the continent.[1] But the earl's troops were so few that they were forced
to withdraw after their success into more friendly regions. Leon and Cornouailles then resumed
allegiance to the house of Montfort. In the midst of the struggle Robert of Artois received
a wound which soon ended his tempestuous career.

    [1] Baker, p.76, gives the place, Knighton, ii., 25, the
    details. See also my note in Engl. Hist. Review, xix. (1904),
    713-15.

