 How well I remember his mother! how earnestly she prayed for the little boy!
Have I faithfully filled her place? If she had lived, would not her son have grown into a better
man, a better Christian?" Here Aunt Faith again broke down, and buried her face in her hands.
Hugh was her darling; and, although he was now twenty years of age, and so tall and strong
that he could easily carry his aunt in his arms, to her he was still the curly-haired boy,
Fitzhugh Warrington, whom the dying mother gave to Aunt Faith for her own. "There is Sibyl,
also," she thought, as she glanced towards the garden, where her niece sat reading under the
arbor; "she is at the other extreme, as unlike her brother as snow is unlike fire. Sibyl never
does wrong. I believe I have never had cause to punish her, even in childhood. But she is so
cold, so impassive; I can never get down as far as her heart; I am never sure that she loves
me." Aunt Faith sighed heavily. Sibyl's coldness was harder for her to bear than Hugh's waywardness.

Then her thoughts turned towards the younger children. "Grace is too young to cause me much
anxiety; but still I seem to have made no more impression upon her religious nature than I
could have done upon a running brook; and as for Tom,--" Here Aunt Faith's musings were rudely
interrupted by a shout and a howl. Through the hall behind her came a galloping procession.
First, "Turk," the great Newfoundland dog, harnessed to a rattling wagon, in which sat "Grip,"
the mongrel, muffled in a shawl, his melancholy countenance encircled with a white ruffled
cap; then came Tom, as driver, and behind him "Pete" the terrier, fastened by a long string,
and dragging Miss Estella Camilla Wales, in her little go-cart, very much against his will.
"Miss Estella Camilla Wales" was Grace's favorite doll, and no sooner did she behold the danger
of her pet, than she sprang from the sitting-room sofa and gave chase. But Tom flourished his
whip, old Turk galloped down the garden-walk with the whole train at his heels, and Miss Wales
was whirled across the street before Grace could reach the gate.

"Tom, Tom Morris! stop this minute, you wicked boy! You'll break Estella's nose!" she cried,
as they pursued the cavalcade toward the grove opposite the house. Here Pete, excited by the
uproar, began barking furiously, and running around in a circle with a speed which soon brought
Estella to the ground, besides tying up Tom's legs in a complicated manner with the cord which
served as a connecting link between the team in front and the team behind. Old Turk, after
taking a survey of the scene, gently laid himself down, harness and all, and wagged his ponderous
tail; while poor Grip, in his efforts to free himself from the shawl, managed to pull his cap
over his eyes, and howled in blind dismay. In the midst of the confusion, Grace rescued Miss
Wales from her perilous position, and, finding her classic nose still unbroken, laid her carefully
in the crotch of a tree, and prepared for revenge. In his desire to secure the obedience of
his dog-team, Tom had fastened them securely, by long cords, to his belt; Pete had already
managed to wind his tether tightly around Tom's legs, and Grace incited Turk to rebellion,
so that he, too, began to gambol about in his elephantine way, and Tom was soon tangled in
another net. "I say, Grace, let the dogs alone, will you!" he said angrily, as he vainly tried
to disentangle himself. "Here, Turk! lie down sir! Where in the world is my knife? Pete Trone,
you are in for a switching, young man, as soon as these cords are cut!" During this time Grip
had been pulling at his night-cap with all the strength of his paws; but as he only succeeded
in drawing it farther over his nose, he finally gave up in despair, and, hearing Grace's voice,
patiently sat up on his hind legs, with fore-paws in the air, begging to be released. He looked
so ridiculous that both Tom and his sister burst into a fit of laughter. Good humor was restored,
the tangles cut, and the procession returned homeward, Grip released from his cap, but still
wearing his trailing shawl.

When they reached the gate Tom stopped, and calling the dogs in a line, he began an address:
"Turk, Grip, and Pete Trone, Esquires, you have all behaved very badly, and deserve condign
punishment!" At these words, uttered in a harsh voice, Pete Trone gave a short bark, and Grip
instantly sat up on his hind legs, as if to beg for mercy. "None of that, gentlemen, if you
please!" continued Tom; "special pleading is not allowed before this jury. Turk, Grip, and
Pete Trone, Esquires, you are hereby sentenced to walk around the--garden on the top of the
fence. Up, all of you! jump!" said Tom, picking up a switch. Now, indeed, all the culprits
knew what was before them. That fence was a well-known penance,--for when they did anything
wrong this was their punishment. Old Turk felt the touch of the switch first, and mounted heavily
to his perch, his great legs curved inward to keep a footing on the narrow top; then came Pete,
and, last of all, Grip, who, being a heavy-bodied cur, crouched himself down as low as he could,
and crawled along with extreme caution. The fence was high, with a flat, horizontal top about
four inches wide. It ran around three sides of the garden, and often, as Aunt Faith sat at
her work in the sitting-room, the melancholy procession of dogs passed the window on this fence-top,
followed by Tom with his switch. But Aunt Faith never interfered. She knew that Tom was a kind
master, who never ill-treated or tormented any creature. Tom was a large-hearted boy, and,
although full of mischief, was never cruel or heartless; he found no pleasure in ill-treating
a dog or a cat, nor would he suffer other boys to do so in his presence. Many a battle had
he fought with boys of mean and cruel natures, to rescue a bird, or some other helpless creature.
"It is only cowards," he would say, "who like to torment birds, cats, and dogs. They know the
poor things can't fight them back again."

Old Turk,--a giant in size among dogs,--had been in the family for many years; Grip was rescued
from the canal, where some cruel boys had thrown him, by Tom himself; and Pete Trone, Esquire,
was bought with Tom's first five-dollar bill, and soon proved himself a terrier of manifold
accomplishments,--the brightest and most mischievous member of the trio. All the dogs had been
carefully trained by Tom. They could fetch and carry, lie down when they were bid, sit up on
their hind legs, and do many other tricks. Aunt Faith used to say, that if Tom would only learn
his lessons half as well as he made his dogs learn theirs, there would be no more imperfect
marks in his weekly reports.

In the meantime, the dogs had turned the corner of the fence, and were slowly advancing towards
the house; while Grace, carrying Estella, came up the garden-walk. "Halt!" said Tom, and the
three dogs stopped instantly; Turk, not daring to turn his head to see what was the matter,
for fear of losing his balance, blinked out of the corner of his eye, as much as to say, "I
wouldn't turn round if I could." "Pete Trone," said Tom gravely, "it is evident that this punishment
is not severe enough for you; a dog that has time to wag his tail and yawn, cannot be in much
anxiety to keep his position on the fence. Pete Trone, Esquire, for the rest of the way you
shall wear Grip's cap." So the terrier's black face was encircled with the white frill, and,
this accomplished, the march was resumed, and the three dogs disappeared behind the house.

"Aunt Faith," said Grace, as she reached the piazza, "that wicked Tom put Estella Camilla Wales
in her wagon, and made Pete draw her all over. It's a wonder her nose wasn't broken and her
eyes knocked out. If they had been, that would have been the end of her, like the last ten
dolls I have had."

"Not ten, surely, my dear?"

"Yes, Aunt Faith, ten whole dolls! Polly he painted black to make her like the Queen of Sheba;
he made Babes in the Woods of Beauty and Jane, and it rained on them all night; Isabella and
Arabella I found on the clothes-line all broken to pieces, and he said they were only dancing
on a tight rope; he sent Rose and Lily,--the paper-dolls, you know,--up in the air tied to
the tail of his kite; the rag-baby he took for a scarecrow over his garden; and surely, Aunt
Faith, you have not forgotten how he made Jeff Davis on the apple-tree, out of my dear china
Josephine, or how he blew up Julia Rubber with his cannon last Fourth of July, when I lent
her to him for the Goddess of Liberty?"

"Well, Gem, I did not realize that you had suffered so much. Take good care of Estella, and
perhaps Santa Claus will make up your losses."

Grace, or Gem, as she was called from the three initials of her names, Grace Evans Morris,--G.
E. M.,--ran off into the house to look up Estella, leaving Aunt Faith once more alone.

