Meanwhile, commercial flying opened on May 8th (the official date was May 1st) with a joy-ride
service from Hounslow of Avro training machines. The enterprise caught on remarkably, and the
company extended their activities to coastal resorts for the holiday season--at Blackpool alone
they took up 10,000 passengers before the service was two months old. Hendon, beginning passenger
flights on the same date, went in for exhibition and passenger flying, and on June 21st the
aerial Derby was won by Captain Gathergood on an Airco 4R machine with a Napier 450 horse-power
'Lion' engine; incidentally the speed of 129.3 miles per hour was officially recognised as
constituting the world's record for speed within a closed circuit. On July 17th a Fiat B.R.
biplane with a 700 horse-power engine landed at Kenley aerodrome after having made a non-stop
flight of 1,100 miles. The maximum speed of this machine was 160 miles per hour, and it was
claimed to be the fastest machine in existence. On August 25th a daily service between London
and Paris was inaugurated by the Aircraft Manufacturing Company, Limited, who ran a machine
each way each day, starting at 12.30 and due to arrive at 2.45 p.m. The Handley-Page Company
began a similar service in September of 1919, but ran it on alternate days with machines capable
of accommodating ten passengers. The single fare in each case was fixed at 15 guineas and the
parcel rate at 7s. 6d. per pound.

Meanwhile, in Germany, a number of passenger services had been in operation from the early
part of the year; the Berlin-Weimar service was established on February 5th and Berlin-Hamburg
on March 1st, both for mail and passenger carrying. Berlin-Breslau was soon added, but the
first route opened remained most popular, 538 flights being made between its opening and the
end of April, while for March and April combined, the Hamburg-Berlin route recorded only 262
flights. All three routes were operated by a combine of German aeronautical firms entitled
the Deutsch Luft Rederie. The single fare between Hamburg and Berlin was 450 marks, between
Berlin and Breslau 500 marks, and between Berlin and Weimar 450 marks. Luggage was carried
free of charge, but varied according to the weight of the passenger, since the combined weight
of both passenger and luggage was not allowed to exceed a certain limit.

In America commercial flying had begun in May of 1918 with the mail service between Washington,
Philadelphia, and New York, which proved that mail carrying is a commercial possibility, and
also demonstrated the remarkable reliability of the modern aeroplane by making 102 complete
flights out of a possible total of 104 in November, 1918, at a cost of 0.777 of a dollar per
mile. By March of 1919 the cost per mile had gone up to 1.28 dollars; the first annual report
issued at the end of May showed an efficiency of 95.6 per cent and the original six aeroplanes
and engines with which the service began were still in regular use.

In June of 1919 an American commercial firm chartered an aeroplane for emergency service owing
to a New York harbour strike and found it so useful that they made it a regular service. The
Travellers Company inaugurated a passenger flying boat service between New York and Atlantic
City on July 25th, the fare, inclusive of 35 lbs. of luggage, being fixed at L25 each way.

Five flights on the American continent up to the end of 1919 are worthy of note. On December
13th, 1918, Lieut. D. Godoy of the Chilian army left Santiago, Chili, crossed the Andes at
a height of 19,700 feet and landed at Mendoza, the capital of the wine-growing province of
Argentina. On April 19th, 1919, Captain E. F. White made the first non-stop flight between
New York and Chicago in 6 hours 50 minutes on a D.H.4 machine driven by a twelve-cylinder Liberty
engine. Early in August Major Schroeder, piloting a French Lepere machine flying at a height
of 18,400 feet, reached a speed of 137 miles per hour with a Liberty motor fitted with a super-charger.
Toward the end of August, Rex Marshall, on a Thomas-Morse biplane, starting from a height of
17,000 feet, made a glide of 35 miles with his engine cut off, restarting it when at a height
of 600 feet above the ground. About a month later R. Rohlfe, piloting a Curtiss triplane, broke
the height record by reaching 34,610 feet.

XXII. 1919-20

Into the later months of 1919 comes the flight by Captain Ross-Smith from England to Australia
and the attempt to make the Cape to Cairo voyage by air. The Australian Government had offered
a prize of L10,000 for the first flight from England to Australia in a British machine, the
flight to be accomplished in 720 consecutive hours. Ross-Smith, with his brother, Lieut. Keith
Macpherson Smith, and two mechanics, left Hounslow in a Vickers-Vimy bomber with Rolls-Royce
engine on November 12th and arrived at Port Darwin, North Australia, on the 10th December,
having completed the flight in 27 days 20 hours 20 minutes, thus having 51 hours 40 minutes
to spare out of the 720 allotted hours.

Early in 1920 came a series of attempts at completing the journey by air between Cairo and
the Cape. Out of four competitors Colonel Van Ryneveld came nearest to making the journey successfully,
leaving England on a standard Vickers-Vimy bomber with Rolls-Royce engines, identical in design
with the machine used by Captain Ross-Smith on the England to Australia flight. A second Vickers-Vimy
was financed by the Times newspaper and a third flight was undertaken with a Handley-Page machine
under the auspices of the Daily Telegraph. The Air Ministry had already prepared the route
by means of three survey parties which cleared the aerodromes and landing grounds, dividing
their journey into stages of 200 miles or less. Not one of the competitors completed the course,
but in both this and Ross-Smith's flight valuable data was gained in respect of reliability
of machines and engines, together with a mass of meteorological information.

The Handley-Page Company announced in the early months of 1920 that they had perfected a new
design of wing which brought about a twenty to forty per cent improvement in lift rate in the
year. When the nature of the design was made public, it was seen to consist of a division of
the wing into small sections, each with its separate lift. A few days later, Fokker, the Dutch
inventor, announced the construction of a machine in which all external bracing wires are obviated,
the wings being of a very deep section and self-supporting. The value of these two inventions
remains to be seen so far as commercial flying is concerned.

The value of air work in war, especially so far as the Colonial campaigns in which British
troops are constantly being engaged is in question, was very thoroughly demonstrated in a report
issued early in 1920 with reference to the successful termination of the Somaliland campaign
through the intervention of the Royal Air Force, which between January 21st and the 31st practically
destroyed the Dervish force under the Mullah, which had been a thorn in the side of Britain
since 1907. Bombs and machine-guns did the work, destroying fortifications and bringing about
the surrender of all the Mullah's following, with the exception of about seventy who made their
escape.

Certain records both in construction and performance had characterised the post-war years,
though as design advances and comes nearer to perfection, it is obvious that records must get
fewer and farther between. The record aeroplane as regards size at the time of its construction
was the Tarrant triplane, which made its first--and last--flight on May 28th, 1919. The total
loaded weight was 30 tons, and the machine was fitted with six 400 horse-power engines; almost
immediately after the trial flight began, the machine pitched forward on its nose and was wrecked,
causing fatal injuries to Captains Dunn and Rawlings, who were aboard the machine. A second
accident of similar character was that which befell the giant seaplane known as the Felixstowe
Fury, in a trial flight. This latter machine was intended to be flown to Australia, but was
crashed over the water.

On May 4th, 1920, a British record for flight duration and useful load was established by a
commercial type Handley-Page biplane, which, carrying a load of 3,690 lbs., rose to a height
of 13,999 feet and remained in the air for 1 hour 20 minutes. On May 27th the French pilot,
Fronval, flying at Villacoublay in a Morane-Saulnier type of biplane with Le Rhone motor, put
up an extraordinary type of record by looping the loop 962 times in 3 hours 52 minutes 10 seconds.
Another record of the year of similar nature was that of two French fliers, Boussotrot and
Bernard, who achieved a continuous flight of 24 hours 19 minutes 7 seconds, beating the pre-war
record of 21 hours 48 3/4 seconds set up by the German pilot, Landemann. Both these records
are likely to stand, being in the nature of freaks, which demonstrate little beyond the reliability
of the machine and the capacity for endurance on the part of its pilots.

Meanwhile, on February 14th, Lieuts. Masiero and Ferrarin left Rome on S.V.A. Ansaldo V. machines
fitted with 220 horse-power S.V.A. motors. On May 30th they arrived at Tokio, having flown
by way of Bagdad, Karachi, Canton, Pekin, and Osaka. Several other competitors started, two
of whom were shot down by Arabs in Mesopotamia.

Considered in a general way, the first two years after the termination of the Great European
War form a period of transition in which the commercial type of aeroplane was gradually evolved
from the fighting machine which was perfected in the four preceding years. There was about
this period no sense of finality, but it was as experimental, in its own way, as were the years
of progressing design which preceded the war period. Such commercial schemes as were inaugurated
call for no more note than has been given here; they have been experimental, and, with the
possible exception of the United States Government mail service, have not been planned and
executed on a sufficiently large scale to furnish reliable data on which to forecast the prospects
of commercial aviation. And there is a school rapidly growing up which asserts that the day
of aeroplanes is nearly over. The construction of the giant airships of to-day and the successful
return flight of R34 across the Atlantic seem to point to the eventual triumph, in spite of
its disadvantages, of the dirigible airship.

This is a hard saying for such of the aeroplane industry as survived the War period and consolidated
itself, and it is but the saying of a section which bases its belief on the fact that, as was
noted in the very early years of the century, the aeroplane is primarily a war machine. Moreover,
the experience of the War period tended to discredit the dirigible, since, before the introduction
of helium gas, the inflammability of its buoyant factor placed it at an immense disadvantage
beside the machine dependent on the atmosphere itself for its lift.

As life runs to-day, it is a long time since Kipling wrote his story of the airways of a future
world and thrust out a prophecy that the bulk of the world's air traffic would be carried by
gas-bag vessels. If the school which inclines to belief in the dirigible is right in its belief,
as it well may be, then the foresight was uncannily correct, not only in the matter of the
main assumption, but in the detail with which the writer embroidered it.

On the constructional side, the history of the aeroplane is still so much in the making that
any attempt at a critical history would be unwise, and it is possible only to record fact,
leaving it to the future for judgment to be passed. But, in a general way, criticism may be
advanced with regard to the place that aeronautics takes in civilisation. In the past hundred
years, the world has made miraculously rapid strides materially, but moral development has
not kept abreast. Conception of the responsibilities of humanity remains virtually in a position
of a hundred years ago; given a higher conception of life and its responsibilities, the aeroplane
becomes the crowning achievement of that long series which James Watt inaugurated, the last
step in intercommunication, the chain with which all nations are bound in a growing prosperity,
surely based on moral wellbeing. Without such conception of the duties as well as the rights
of life, this last achievement of science may yet prove the weapon that shall end civilisation
as men know it to-day, and bring this ultra-material age to a phase of ruin on which saner
people can build a world more reasonable and less given to groping after purely material advancement.

PART II. 1903-1920: PROGRESS IN DESIGN

By Lieut.-Col. W. Lockwood Marsh

I. THE BEGINNINGS

Although the first actual flight of an aeroplane was made by the Wrights on December 17th 1903,
it is necessary, in considering the progress of design between that period and the present
day, to go back to the earlier days of their experiments with 'gliders,' which show the alterations
in design made by them in their step-bystep progress to a flying machine proper, and give a
clear idea of the stage at which they had arrived in the art of aeroplane design at the time
of their first flights.

They started by carefully surveying the work of previous experimenters, such as Lilienthal
and Chanute, and from the lesson of some of the failures of these pioneers evolved certain
new principles which were embodied in their first glider, built in 1900. In the first place,
instead of relying upon the shifting of the operator's body to obtain balance, which had proved
too slow to be reliable, they fitted in front of the main supporting surfaces what we now call
an 'elevator,' which could be flexed, to control the longitudinal balance, from where the operator
lay prone upon the main supporting surfaces. The second main innovation which they incorporated
in this first glider, and the principle of which is still used in every aeroplane in existence,
was the attainment of lateral balance by warping the extremities of the main planes. The effect
of warping or pulling down the extremity of the wing on one side was to increase its lift and
so cause that side to rise. In the first two gliders this control was also used for steering
to right and left. Both these methods of control were novel for other than model work, as previous
experimenters, such as Lilienthal and Pilcher, had relied entirely upon moving the legs or
shifting the position of the body to control the longitudinal and lateral motions of their
gliders. For the main supporting surfaces of the glider the biplane system of Chanute's gliders
was adopted with certain modifications, while the curve of the wings was founded upon the calculations
of Lilienthal as to wind pressure and consequent lift of the plane.

This first glider was tested on the Kill Devil Hill sand-hills in North Carolina in the summer
of 1900 and proved at any rate the correctness of the principles of the front elevator and
warping wings, though its designers were puzzled by the fact that the lift was less than they
expected; whilst the 'drag'(as we call it), or resistance, was also considerably lower than
their predictions. The 1901 machine was, in consequence, nearly doubled in area--the lifting
surface being increased from 165 to 308 square feet--the first trial taking place on July 27th,
1901, again at Kill Devil Hill. It immediately appeared that something was wrong, as the machine
dived straight to the ground, and it was only after the operator's position had been moved
nearly a foot back from what had been calculated as the correct position that the machine would
glide--and even then the elevator had to be used far more strongly than in the previous year's
glider. After a good deal of thought the apparent solution of the trouble was finally found.

This consisted in the fact that with curved surfaces, while at large angles the centre of pressure
moves forward as the angle decreases, when a certain limit of angle is reached it travels suddenly
backwards and causes the machine to dive. The Wrights had known of this tendency from Lilienthal's
researches, but had imagined that the phenomenon would disappear if they used a fairly lightly
cambered--or curved--surface with a very abrupt curve at the front. Having discovered what
appeared to be the cause they surmounted the difficulty by 'trussing down' the camber of the
wings, with the result that they at once got back to the old conditions of the previous year
and could control the machine readily with small movements of the elevator, even being able
to follow undulations in the ground. They still found, however, that the lift was not as great
as it should have been; while the drag remained, as in the previous glider, surprisingly small.
This threw doubt on previous figures as to wind resistance and pressure on curved surfaces;
but at the same time confirmed (and this was a most important result) Lilienthal's previously
questioned theory that at small angles the pressure on a curved surface instead of being normal,
or at right angles to, the chord is in fact inclined in front of the perpendicular. The result
of this is that the pressure actually tends to draw the machine forward into the wind--hence
the small amount of drag, which had puzzled Wilbur and Orville Wright.

Another lesson which was learnt from these first two years of experiment, was that where, as
in a biplane, two surfaces are superposed one above the other, each of them has somewhat less
lift than it would have if used alone. The experimenters were also still in doubt as to the
efficiency of the warping method of controlling the lateral balance as it gave rise to certain
phenomena which puzzled them, the machine turning towards the wing having the greater angle,
which seemed also to touch the ground first, contrary to their expectations. Accordingly, on
returning to Dayton towards the end of 1901, they set themselves to solve the various problems
which had appeared and started on a lengthy series of experiments to check the previous figures
as to wind resistance and lift of curved surfaces, besides setting themselves to grapple with
the difficulty of lateral control. They accordingly constructed for themselves at their home
in Dayton a wind tunnel 16 inches square by 6 feet long in which they measured the lift and
'drag' of more than two hundred miniature wings. In the course of these tests they for the
first time produced comparative results of the lift of oblong and square surfaces, with the
result that they re-discovered the importance of 'aspect ratio'--the ratio of length to breadth
of planes. As a result, in the next year's glider the aspect ration of the wings was increased
from the three to one of the earliest model to about six to one, which is approximately the
same as that used in the machines of to-day. Further than that, they discussed the question
of lateral stability, and came to the conclusion that the cause of the trouble was that the
effect of warping down one wing was to increase the resistance of, and consequently slow down,
that wing to such an extent that its lift was reduced sufficiently to wipe out the anticipated
increase in lift resulting from the warping. From this they deduced that if the speed of the
warped wing could be controlled the advantage of increasing the angle by warping could be utilised
as they originally intended. They therefore decided to fit a vertical fin at the rear which,
if the machine attempted to turn, would be exposed more and more to the wind and so stop the
turning motion by offering increased resistance.

As a result of this laboratory research work the third Wright glider, which was taken to Kill
Devil Hill in September, 1902, was far more efficient aerodynamically than either of its two
predecessors, and was fitted with a fixed vertical fin at the rear in addition to the movable
elevator in front. According to Mr Griffith Brewer,[*] this third glider contained 305 square
feet of surface; though there may possibly be a mistake here, as he states[**] the surface
of the previous year's glider to have been only 290 square feet, whereas Wilbur Wright himself[***]
states it to have been 308 square feet. The matter is not, perhaps, save historically, of much
importance, except that the gliders are believed to have been progressively larger, and therefore
if we accept Wilbur Wright's own figure of the surface of the second glider, the third must
have had a greater area than that given by Mr Griffith Brewer. Unfortunately, no evidence of
the Wright Brothers themselves on this point is available.

[*] Fourth Wilbur Wright Memorial Lecture, Aeronautical Journal, Vol. XX, No. 79, page 75.

[**] Ibid. page 73.

[***] Ibid. pp. 91 and 102.

The first glide of the 1902, season was made on September 17th of that year, and the new machine
at once showed itself an improvement on its predecessors, though subsequent trials showed that
the difficulty of lateral balance had not been entirely overcome. It was decided, therefore,
to turn the vertical fin at the rear into a rudder by making it movable. At the same time it
was realised that there was a definite relation between lateral balance and directional control,
and the rudder controls and wing-warping wires were accordingly connected This ended the pioneer
gliding experiments of Wilbur and Orville Wright--though further glides were made in subsequent
years--as the following year, 1903, saw the first power-driven machine leave the ground.

To recapitulate--in the course of these original experiments the Wrights confirmed Lilienthal's
theory of the reversal of the centre of pressure on cambered surfaces at small angles of incidence:
they confirmed the importance of high aspect ratio in respect to lift: they had evolved new
and more accurate tables of lift and pressure on cambered surfaces: they were the first to
use a movable horizontal elevator for controlling height: they were the first to adjust the
wings to different angles of incidence to maintain lateral balance: and they were the first
to use the movable rudder and adjustable wings in combination.

They now considered that they had gone far enough to justify them in building a power-driven
'flier,' as they called their first aeroplane. They could find no suitable engine and so proceeded
to build for themselves an internal combustion engine, which was designed to give 8 horse-power,
but when completed actually developed about 12-15 horse-power and weighed 240 lbs. The complete
machine weighed about 750 lbs. Further details of the first Wright aeroplane are difficult
to obtain, and even those here given should be received with some caution. The first flight
was made on December 17th 1903, and lasted 12 seconds. Others followed immediately, and the
fourth lasted 59 seconds, a distance of 852 feet being covered against a 20-mile wind.

The following year they transferred operations to a field outside Dayton, Ohio (their home),
and there they flew a somewhat larger and heavier machine with which on September 20th 1904,
they completed the first circle in the air. In this machine for the first time the pilot had
a seat; all the previous experiments having been carried out with the operator lying prone
on the lower wing. This was followed next year by another still larger machine, and on it they
carried out many flights. During the course of these flights they satisfied themselves as to
the cause of a phenomenon which had puzzled them during the previous year and caused them to
fear that they had not solved the problem of lateral control. They found that on occasions--always
when on a turn--the machine began to slide down towards the ground and that no amount of warping
could stop it. Finally it was found that if the nose of the machine was tilted down a recovery
could be effected; from which they concluded that what actually happened was that the machine,
'owing to the increased load caused by centrifugal force,' had insufficient power to maintain
itself in the air and therefore lost speed until a point was reached at which the controls
became inoperative. In other words, this was the first experience of 'stalling on a turn,'
which is a danger against which all embryo pilots have to guard in the early stages of their
training.

The 1905 machine was, like its predecessors, a biplane with a biplane elevator in front and
a double vertical rudder in rear. The span was 40 feet, the chord of the wings being 6 feet
and the gap between them about the same. The total area was about 600 square feet which supported
a total weight of 925 lbs.; while the motor was 12 to 15 horse-power driving two propellers
on each side behind the main planes through chains and giving the machine a speed of about
30 m.p.h. one of these chains was crossed so that the propellers revolved in opposite directions
to avoid the torque which it was feared would be set up if they both revolved the same way.
The machine was not fitted with a wheeled undercarriage but was carried on two skids, which
also acted as outriggers to carry the elevator. Consequently, a mechanical method of launching
had to be evolved and the machine received initial velocity from a rail, along which it was
drawn by the impetus provided by the falling of a weight from a wooden tower or 'pylon.' As
a result of this the Wright aeroplane in its original form had to be taken back to its starting
rail after each flight, and could not restart from the point of alighting. Perhaps, in comparison
with French machines of more or less contemporary date (evolved on independent lines in ignorance
of the Americans' work), the chief feature of the Wright biplane of 1905 was that it relied
entirely upon the skill of the operator for its stability; whereas in France some attempt was
being made, although perhaps not very successfully, to make the machine automatically stable
laterally. The performance of the Wrights in carrying a loading of some 60 lbs. per horse-power
is one which should not be overlooked. The wing loading was about 1 1/2 lbs. per square foot.

About the same time that the Wrights were carrying out their power-driven experiments, a band
of pioneers was quite independently beginning to approach success in France. In practically
every case, however, they started from a somewhat different standpoint and took as their basic
idea the cellular (or box) kite. This form of kite, consisting of two superposed surfaces connected
at each end by a vertical panel or curtain of fabric, had proved extremely successful for man-carrying
purposes, and, therefore, it was little wonder that several minds conceived the idea of attempting
to fly by fitting a series of box-kites with an engine. The first to achieve success was M.
Santos-Dumont, the famous Brazilian pioneer-designer of airships, who, on November 12th, 1906,
made several flights, the last of which covered a little over 700 feet. Santos-Dumont's machine
consisted essentially of two box-kites, forming the main wings, one on each side of the body,
in which the pilot stood, and at the front extremity of which was another movable box-kite
to act as elevator and rudder. The curtains at the ends were intended to give lateral stability,
which was further ensured by setting the wings slightly inclined upwards from the centre, so
that when seen from the front they formed a wide V. This feature is still to be found in many
aeroplanes to-day and has come to be known as the 'dihedral.' The motor was at first of 24
horse-power, for which later a 50 horse-power Antoinette engine was substituted; whilst a three-wheeled
undercarriage was provided, so that the machine could start without external mechanical aid.
The machine was constructed of bamboo and steel, the weight being as low as 352 lbs. The span
was 40 feet, the length being 33 feet, with a total surface of main planes of 860 square feet.
It will thus be seen--for comparison with the Wright machine--that the weight per horse-power
(with the 50 horse-power engine) was only 7 lbs., while the wing loading was equally low at
1/2 lb. per square foot.

The main features of the Santos-Dumont machine were the box-kite form of construction, with
a dihedral angle on the main planes, and the forward elevator which could be moved in any direction
and therefore acted in the same way as the rudder at the rear of the Wright biplane. It had
a single propeller revolving in the centre behind the wings and was fitted with an undercarriage
incorporated in the machine.

The other chief French experimenters at this period were the Voisin Freres, whose first two
machines--identical in form--were sold to Delagrange and H. Farman, which has sometimes caused
confusion, the two purchasers being credited with the design they bought. The Voisins, like
the Wrights, based their designs largely on the experimental work of Lilienthal, Langley, Chanute,
and others, though they also carried out tests on the lifting properties of aerofoils in a
wind tunnel of their own. Their first machines, like those of Santos-Dumont, showed the effects
of experimenting with box-kites, some of which they had built for M. Ernest Archdeacon in 1904.
In their case the machine, which was again a biplane, had, like both the others previously
mentioned, an elevator in front--though in this case of monoplane form--and, as in the Wright,
a rudder was fitted in rear of the main planes. The Voisins, however, fitted a fixed biplane
horizontal 'tail'--in an effort to obtain a measure of automatic longitudinal stability--between
the two surfaces of which the single rudder worked. For lateral stability they depended entirely
on end curtains between the upper and lower surfaces of both the main planes and biplane tail
surfaces. They, like Santos-Dumont, fitted a wheeled undercarriage, so that the machine was
self-contained. The Voisin machine, then, was intended to be automatically stable in both senses;
whereas the Wrights deliberately produced a machine which was entirely dependent upon the pilot's
skill for its stability. The dimensions of the Voisin may be given for comparative purposes,
and were as follows: Span 33 feet with a chord (width from back to front) of main planes of
6 1/2 feet, giving a total area of 430 square feet. The 50 horse-power Antoinette engine, which
was enclosed in the body (or 'nacelle ') in the front of which the pilot sat, drove a propeller
behind, revolving between the outriggers carrying the tail. The total weight, including Farman
as pilot, is given as 1,540 lbs., so that the machine was much heavier than either of the others;
the weight per horse-power being midway between the Santos-Dumont and the Wright at 31 lbs.
per square foot, while the wing loading was considerably greater than either at 3 1/2 lbs.
per square foot. The Voisin machine was experimented with by Farman and Delagrange from about
June 1907 onwards, and was in the subsequent years developed by Farman; and right up to the
commencement of the War upheld the principles of the box-kite method of construction for training
purposes. The chief modification of the original design was the addition of flaps (or ailerons)
at the rear extremities of the main planes to give lateral control, in a manner analogous to
the wing-warping method invented by the Wrights, as a result of which the end curtains between
the planes were abolished. An additional elevator was fitted at the rear of the fixed biplane
tail, which eventually led to the discarding of the front elevator altogether. During the same
period the Wright machine came into line with the others by the fitting of a wheeled undercarriage
integral with the machine. A fixed horizontal tail was also added to the rear rudder, to which
a movable elevator was later attached; and, finally, the front elevator was done away with.
It will thus be seen that having started from the very different standpoints of automatic stability
and complete control by the pilot, the Voisin (as developed in the Farman) and Wright machines,
through gradual evolution finally resulted in aeroplanes of similar characteristics embodying
a modicum of both features.

Before proceeding to the next stage of progress mention should be made of the experimental
work of Captain Ferber in France. This officer carried out a large number of experiments with
gliders contemporarily with the Wrights, adopting--like them--the Chanute biplane principle.
He adopted the front elevator from the Wrights, but immediately went a step farther by also
fitting a fixed tail in rear, which did not become a feature of the Wright machine until some
seven or eight years later. He built and appeared to have flown a machine fitted with a motor
in 1905, and was commissioned to go to America by the French War Office on a secret mission
to the Wrights. Unfortunately, no complete account of his experiments appears to exist, though
it can be said that his work was at least as important as that of any of the other pioneers
mentioned.

II. MULTIPLICITY OF IDEAS

In a review of progress such as this, it is obviously impossible, when a certain stage of development
has been reached, owing to the very multiplicity of experimenters, to continue dealing in anything
approaching detail with all the different types of machines; and it is proposed, therefore,
from this point to deal only with tendencies, and to mention individuals merely as examples
of a class of thought rather than as personalities, as it is often difficult fairly to allocate
the responsibility for any particular innovation.

During 1907 and 1908 a new type of machine, in the monoplane, began to appear from the workshops
of Louis Bleriot, Robert Esnault-Pelterie, and others, which was destined to give rise to long
and bitter controversies on the relative advantages of the two types, into which it is not
proposed to enter here; though the rumblings of the conflict are still to be heard by discerning
ears. Bleriot's early monoplanes had certain new features, such as the location of the pilot,
and in some cases the engine, below the wing; but in general his monoplanes, particularly the
famous No. XI on which the first Channel crossing was made on July 25th, 1909, embodied the
main principles of the Wright and Voisin types, except that the propeller was in front of instead
of behind the supporting surfaces, and was, therefore, what is called a 'tractor' in place
of the then more conventional 'pusher.' Bleriot aimed at lateral balance by having the tip
of each wing pivoted, though he soon fell into line with the Wrights and adopted the warping
system. The main features of the design of Esnault-Pelterie's monoplane was the inverted dihedral
(or kathedral as this was called in Mr S. F. Cody's British Army Biplane of 1907) on the wings,
whereby the tips were considerably lower than the roots at the body. This was designed to give
automatic lateral stability, but, here again, conventional practice was soon adopted and the
R.E.P. monoplanes, which became well-known in this country through their adoption in the early
days by Messrs Vickers, were of the ordinary monoplane design, consisting of a tractor propeller
with wire-stayed wings, the pilot being in an enclosed fuselage containing the engine in front
and carrying at its rear extremity fixed horizontal and vertical surfaces combined with movable
elevators and rudder. Constructionally, the R.E.P. monoplane was of extreme interest as the
body was constructed of steel. The Antoinette monoplane, so ably flown by Latham, was another
very famous machine of the 1909-1910 period, though its performance were frequently marred
by engine failure; which was indeed the bugbear of all these early experimenters, and it is
difficult to say, after this lapse of time, how far in many cases the failures which occurred,
both in performances and even in the actual ability to rise from the ground, were due to defects
in design or merely faults in the primitive engines available. The Antoinette aroused admiration
chiefly through its graceful, birdlike lines, which have probably never been equalled; but
its chief interest for our present purpose lies in the novel method of wing-staying which was
employed. Contemporary monoplanes practically all had their wings stayed by wires to a post
in the centre above the fuselage, and, usually, to the undercarriage below. In the Antoinette,
however, a king post was introduced half-way along the wing, from which wires were carried
to the ends of the wings and the body. This was intended to give increased strength and permitted
of a greater wing-spread and consequently improved aspect ratio. The same system of construction
was adopted in the British Martinsyde monoplanes of two or three years later.

This period also saw the production of the first triplane, which was built by A. V. Roe in
England and was fitted with a J.A.P. engine of only 9 horse-power--an amazing performance which
remains to this day unequalled. Mr Roe's triplane was chiefly interesting otherwise for the
method of maintaining longitudinal control, which was achieved by pivoting the whole of the
three main planes so that their angle of incidence could be altered. This was the direct converse
of the universal practice of elevating by means of a subsidiary surface either in front or
rear of the main planes.

Recollection of the various flying meetings and exhibitions which one attended during the years
from 1909 to 1911, or even 1912 are chiefly notable for the fact that the first thought on
seeing any new type of machine was not as to what its 'performance'--in speed, lift, or what
not--would be; but speculation as to whether it would leave the ground at all when eventually
tried. This is perhaps the best indication of the outstanding characteristic of that interim
period between the time of the first actual flights and the later period, commencing about
1912, when ideas had become settled and it was at last becoming possible to forecast on the
drawing-board the performance of the completed machine in the air. Without going into details,
for which there is no space here, it is difficult to convey the correct impression of the chaotic
state which existed as to even the elementary principles of aeroplane design. All the exhibitions
contained large numbers--one had almost written a majority--of machines which embodied the
most unusual features and which never could, and in practice never did, leave the ground. At
the same time, there were few who were sufficiently hardy to say certainly that this or that
innovation was wrong; and consequently dozens of inventors in every country were conducting
isolated experiments on both good and bad lines. All kinds of devices, mechanical and otherwise,
were claimed as the solution of the problem of stability, and there was even controversy as
to whether any measure of stability was not undesirable; one school maintaining that the only
safety lay in the pilot having the sole say in the attitude of the machine at any given moment,
and fearing danger from the machine having any mind of its own, so to speak. There was, as
in most controversies, some right on both sides, and when we come to consider the more settled
period from 1912 to the outbreak of the War in 1914 we shall find how a compromise was gradually
effected.

At the same time, however, though it was at the time difficult to pick out, there was very
real progress being made, and, though a number of 'freak' machines fell out by the wayside,
the pioneer designers of those days learnt by a process of trial and error the right principles
to follow and gradually succeeded in getting their ideas crystallised.

In connection with stability mention must be made of a machine which was evolved in the utmost
secrecy by Mr J. W. Dunne in a remote part of Scotland under subsidy from the War office. This
type, which was constructed in both monoplane and biplane form, showed that it was in fact
possible in 1910 and 1911 to design an aeroplane which could definitely be left to fly itself
in the air. One of the Dunne machines was, for example flown from Farnborough to Salisbury
Plain without any control other than the rudder being touched; and on another occasion it flew
a complete circle with all controls locked automatically assuming the correct bank for the
radius of turn. The peculiar form of wing used, the camber of which varied from the root to
the tip, gave rise however, to a certain loss in efficiency, and there was also a difficulty
in the pilot assuming adequate control when desired. Other machines designed to be stable--such
as the German Etrich and the British Weiss gliders and Handley-Page monoplanes--were based
on the analogy of a wing attached to a certain seed found in Nature (the 'Zanonia' leaf), on
the righting effect of back-sloped wings combined with upturned (or 'negative') tips. Generally
speaking, however, the machines of the 1909-1912 period relied for what automatic stability
they had on the principle of the dihedral angle, or flat V, both longitudinally and laterally.
Longitudinally this was obtained by setting the tail at a slightly smaller angle than the main
planes.

The question of reducing the resistance by adopting 'stream-line' forms, along which the air
could flow uninterruptedly without the formation of eddies, was not at first properly realised,
though credit should be given to Edouard Nieuport, who in 1909 produced a monoplane with a
very large body which almost completely enclosed the pilot and made the machine very fast,
for those days, with low horse-power. On one of these machines C. T. Weyman won the Gordon-Bennett
Cup for America in 1911 and another put up a fine performance in the same race with only a
30 horse-power engine. The subject, was however, early taken up by the British Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics, which was established by the Government in 1909, and designers began to realise
the importance of streamline struts and fuselages towards the end of this transition period.
These efforts were at first not always successful and showed at times a lack of understanding
of the problems involved, but there was a very marked improvement during the year 1912. At
the Paris Aero Salon held early in that year there was a notable variety of ideas on the subject;
whereas by the time of the one held in October designs had considerably settled down, more
than one exhibitor showing what were called 'monocoque' fuselages completely circular in shape
and having very low resistance, while the same show saw the introduction of rotating cowls
over the propeller bosses, or 'spinners,' as they came to be called during the War. A particularly
fine example of stream-lining was to be found in the Deperdussin monoplane on which Vedrines
won back the Gordon-Bennett Aviation Cup from America at a speed of 105.5 m.p.h.--a considerable
improvement on the 78 m.p.h. of the preceding year, which was by no means accounted for by
the mere increase in engine power from 100 horse-power to 140 horse-power. This machine was
the first in which the refinement of 'stream-lining' the pilot's head, which became a feature
of subsequent racing machines, was introduced. This consisted of a circular padded excresence
above the cockpit immediately behind the pilot's head, which gradually tapered off into the
top surface of the fuselage. The object was to give the air an uninterrupted flow instead of
allowing it to be broken up into eddies behind the head of the pilot, and it also provided
a support against the enormous wind-pressure encountered. This true stream-line form of fuselage
owed its introduction to the Paulhan-Tatin 'Torpille' monoplane of the Paris Salon of early
1917. Altogether the end of the year 1912 began to see the disappearance of 'freak' machines
with all sorts of original ideas for the increase of stability and performance. Designs had
by then gradually become to a considerable extent standardised, and it had become unusual to
find a machine built which would fail to fly. The Gnome engine held the field owing to its
advantages, as the first of the rotary type, in lightness and ease of fitting into the nose
of a fuselage. The majority of machines were tractors (propeller in front) although a preference,
which died down subsequently, was still shown for the monoplane over the biplane. This year
also saw a great increase in the number of seaplanes, although the 'flying boat' type had only
appeared at intervals and the vast majority were of the ordinary aeroplane type fitted with
floats in place of the land undercarriage; which type was at that time commonly called 'hydro-aeroplane.'
The usual horse power was 50--that of the smallest Gnome engine--although engines of 100 to
140 horse-power were also fitted occasionally. The average weight per horse-power varied from
18 to 25 lbs., while the wing-loading was usually in the neighbourhood of 5 to 6 lbs. per square
foot. The average speed ranged from 65-75 miles per hour.

III. PROGRESS ON STANDARDISED LINES

In the last section an attempt has been made to show how, during what was from the design standpoint
perhaps the most critical period, order gradually became evident out of chaos, ill-considered
ideas dropped out through failure to make good, and, though there was still plenty of room
for improvement in details, the bulk of the aeroplanes showed a general similarity in form
and conception. There was still a great deal to be learnt in finding the best form of wing
section, and performances were still low; but it had become definitely possible to say that
flying had emerged from the chrysalis stage and had become a science. The period which now
began was one of scientific development and improvement--in performance, manoeuvrability, and
general airworthiness and stability.

The British Military Aeroplane Competition held in the summer of 1912 had done much to show
the requirements in design by giving possibly the first opportunity for a definite comparison
of the performance of different machines as measured by impartial observers on standard lines--albeit
the methods of measuring were crude. These showed that a high speed--for those days--of 75
miles an hour or so was attended by disadvantages in the form of an equally fast low speed,
of 50 miles per hour or more, and generally may be said to have given designers an idea what
to aim for and in what direction improvements were required. In fact, the most noticeable point
perhaps of the machines of this time was the marked manner in which a machine that was good
in one respect would be found to be wanting in others. It had not yet been possible to combine
several desirable attributes in one machine. The nearest approach to this was perhaps to be
found in the much discussed Government B.E.2 machine, which was produced from the Royal Aircraft
Factory at Farnborough, in the summer of 1912. Though considerably criticized from many points
of view it was perhaps the nearest approach to a machine of all-round efficiency that had up
to that date appeared. The climbing rate, which subsequently proved so important for military
purposes, was still low, seldom, if ever, exceeding 400 feet per minute; while gliding angles
(ratio of descent to forward travel over the ground with engine stopped) little exceeded 1 in 8.

The year 1912 and 1913 saw the subsequently all-conquering tractor biplane begin to come into
its own. This type, which probably originated in England, and at any rate attained to its greatest
excellence prior to the War from the drawing offices of the Avro Bristol and Sopwith firms,
dealt a blow at the monoplane from which the latter never recovered.

The two-seater tractor biplane produced by Sopwith and piloted by H. G. Hawker, showed that
it was possible to produce a biplane with at least equal speed to the best monoplanes, whilst
having the advantage of greater strength and lower landing speeds. The Sopwith machine had
a top speed of over 80 miles an hour while landing as slowly as little more than 30 miles an
hour; and also proved that it was possible to carry 3 passengers with fuel for 4 hours' flight
with a motive power of only 80 horse-power. This increase in efficiency was due to careful
attention to detail in every part, improved wing sections, clean fuselage-lines, and simplified
undercarriages. At the same time, in the early part of 1913 a tendency manifested itself towards
the four-wheeled undercarriage, a pair of smaller wheels being added in front of the main wheels
to prevent overturning while running on the ground; and several designs of oleo-pneumatic and
steel-spring undercarriages were produced in place of the rubber shock-absorber type which
had up till then been almost universal.

These two statements as to undercarriage designs may appear to be contradictory, but in reality
they do not conflict as they both showed a greater attention to the importance of good springing,
combined with a desire to avoid complication and a mass of struts and wires which increased
head resistance.

The Olympia Aero Show of March, 1913, also produced a machine which, although the type was
not destined to prove the best for the purpose for which it was designed, was of interest as
being the first to be designed specially for war purposes. This was the Vickers 'Gun-bus,'
a 'pusher' machine, with the propeller revolving behind the main planes between the outriggers
carrying the tail, with a seat right in front for a gunner who was provided with a machine
gun on a swivelling mount which had a free field of fire in every direction forward. The device
which proved the death-blow for this type of aircraft during the war will be dealt with in
the appropriate place later, but the machine should not go unrecorded.

As a result of a number of accidents to monoplanes the Government appointed a Committee at
the end of 1912 to inquire into the causes of these. The report which was presented in March,
1913, exonerated the monoplane by coming to the conclusion that the accidents were not caused
by conditions peculiar to monoplanes, but pointed out certain desiderata in aeroplane design
generally which are worth recording. They recommended that the wings of aeroplanes should be
so internally braced as to have sufficient strength in themselves not to collapse if the external
bracing wires should give way. The practice, more common in monoplanes than biplanes, of carrying
important bracing wires from the wings to the undercarriage was condemned owing to the liability
of damage from frequent landings. They also pointed out the desirability of duplicating all
main wires and their attachments, and of using stranded cable for control wires. Owing to the
suspicion that one accident at least had been caused through the tearing of the fabric away
from the wing, it was recommended that fabric should be more securely fastened to the ribs
of the wings, and that devices for preventing the spreading of tears should be considered.
In the last connection it is interesting to note that the French Deperdussin firm produced
a fabric wing-covering with extra strong threads run at right-angles through the fabric at
intervals in order to limit the tearing to a defined area.

In spite, however, of the whitewashing of the monoplane by the Government Committee just mentioned,
considerable stir was occasioned later in the year by the decision of the War office not to
order any more monoplanes; and from this time forward until the War period the British Army
was provided exclusively with biplanes. Even prior to this the popularity of the monoplane
had begun to wane. At the Olympia Aero Show in March, 1913, biplanes for the first time outnumbered
the 'single-deckers'(as the Germans call monoplanes); which had the effect of reducing the
wing-loading. In the case of the biplanes exhibited this averaged about 4 1/2 lbs. per square
foot, while in the case of the monoplanes in the same exhibition the lowest was 5 1/2 lbs.,
and the highest over 8 1/2 lbs. per square foot of area. It may here be mentioned that it was
not until the War period that the importance of loading per horse-power was recognised as the
true criterion of aeroplane efficiency, far greater interest being displayed in the amount
of weight borne per unit area of wing.

An idea of the state of development arrived at about this time may be gained from the fact
that the Commandant of the Military Wing of the Royal Flying Corps in a lecture before the
Royal Aeronautical Society read in February, 1913, asked for single-seater scout aeroplanes
with a speed of 90 miles an hour and a landing speed of 45 miles an hour--a performance which
even two years later would have been considered modest in the extreme. It serves to show that,
although higher performances were put up by individual machines on occasion, the general development
had not yet reached the stage when such performances could be obtained in machines suitable
for military purposes. So far as seaplanes were concerned, up to the beginning of 1913 little
attempt had been made to study the novel problems involved, and the bulk of the machines at
the Monaco Meeting in April, 1913, for instance, consisted of land machines fitted with floats,
in many cases of a most primitive nature, without other alterations. Most of those which succeeded
in leaving the water did so through sheer pull of engine power; while practically all were
incapable of getting off except in a fair sea, which enabled the pilot to jump the machine
into the air across the trough between two waves. Stability problems had not yet been considered,
and in only one or two cases was fin area added at the rear high up, to counterbalance the
effect of the floats low down in front. Both twin and single-float machines were used, while
the flying boat was only just beginning to come into being from the workshops of Sopwith in
Great Britain, Borel-Denhaut in France, and Curtiss in America. In view of the approaching
importance of amphibious seaplanes, mention should be made of the flying boat (or 'bat boat'
as it was called, following Rudyard Kipling) which was built by Sopwith in 1913 with a wheeled
landing-carriage which could be wound up above the bottom surface of the boat so as to be out
of the way when alighting on water.

During 1913 the (at one time almost universal) practice originated by the Wright Brothers,
of warping the wings for lateral stability, began to die out and the bulk of aeroplanes began
to be fitted with flaps (or 'ailerons') instead. This was a distinct change for the better,
as continually warping the wings by bending down the extremities of the rear spars was bound
in time to produce 'fatigue' in that member and lead to breakage; and the practice became completely
obsolete during the next two or three years.

The Gordon-Bennett race of September, 1913, was again won by a Deperdussin machine, somewhat
similar to that of the previous year, but with exceedingly small wings, only 107 square feet
in area. The shape of these wings was instructive as showing how what, from the general utility
point of view, may be disadvantageous can, for a special purpose, be turned to account. With
a span of 21 feet, the chord was 5 feet, giving the inefficient 'aspect ratio' of slightly
over 4 to 1 only. The object of this was to reduce the lift, and therefore the resistance,
to as low a point as possible. The total weight was 1,500 lbs., giving a wing-loading of 14
lbs. per square foot--a hitherto undreamt-of figure. The result was that the machine took an
enormously long run before starting; and after touching the ground on landing ran for nearly
a mile before stopping; but she beat all records by attaining a speed of 126 miles per hour.
Where this performance is mainly interesting is in contrast to the machines of 1920, which
with an even higher speed capacity would yet be able to land at not more than 40 or 50 miles
per hour, and would be thoroughly efficient flying machines.

The Rheims Aviation Meeting, at which the Gordon-Bennett race was flown, also saw the first
appearance of the Morane 'Parasol' monoplane. The Morane monoplane had been for some time an
interesting machine as being the only type which had no fixed surface in rear to give automatic
stability, the movable elevator being balanced through being hinged about one-third of the
way back from the front edge. This made the machine difficult to fly except in the hands of
experts, but it was very quick and handy on the controls and therefore useful for racing purposes.
In the 'Parasol' the modification was introduced of raising the wing above the body, the pilot
looking out beneath it, in order to give as good a view as possible.

Before passing to the year 1914 mention should be made of the feat performed by Nesteroff,
a Russian, and Pegoud, a French pilot, who were the first to demonstrate the possibilities
of flying upside-down and looping the loop. Though perhaps not coming strictly within the purview
of a chapter on design (though certain alterations were made to the top wing-bracing of the
machine for this purpose) this performance was of extreme importance to the development of
aviation by showing the possibility of recovering, given reasonable height, from any position
in the air; which led designers to consider the extra stresses to which an aeroplane might
be subjected and to take steps to provide for them by increasing strength where necessary.

When the year 1914 opened a speed of 126 miles per hour had been attained and a height of 19,600
feet had been reached. The Sopwith and Avro (the forerunner of the famous training machine
of the War period) were probably the two leading tractor biplanes of the world, both two-seaters
with a speed variation from 40 miles per hour up to some 90 miles per hour with 80 horse-power
engines. The French were still pinning their faith mainly to monoplanes, while the Germans
were beginning to come into prominence with both monoplanes and biplanes of the 'Taube' type.
These had wings swept backward and also upturned at the wing-tips which, though it gave a certain
measure of automatic stability, rendered the machine somewhat clumsy in the air, and their
performances were not on the whole as high as those of either France or Great Britain.

Early in 1914 it became known that the experimental work of Edward Busk--who was so lamentably
killed during an experimental flight later in the year--following upon the researches of Bairstow
and others had resulted in the production at the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough of a
truly automatically stable aeroplane. This was the 'R.E.' (Reconnaissance Experimental), a
development of the B.E. which has already been referred to. The remarkable feature of this
design was that there was no particular device to which one could point out as the cause of
the stability. The stable result was attained simply by detailed design of each part of the
aeroplane, with due regard to its relation to, and effect on, other parts in the air. Weights
and areas were so nicely arranged that under practically any conditions the machine tended
to right itself. It did not, therefore, claim to be a machine which it was impossible to upset,
but one which if left to itself would tend to right itself from whatever direction a gust might
come. When the principles were extended to the 'B.E. 2c' type (largely used at the outbreak
of the War) the latter machine, if the engine were switched of f at a height of not less than
1,000 feet above the ground, would after a few moments assume its correct gliding angle and
glide down to the ground.

The Paris Aero Salon of December, 1913, had been remarkable chiefly for the large number of
machines of which the chassis and bodywork had been constructed of steel-tubing; for the excess
of monoplanes over biplanes; and (in the latter) predominance of 'pusher' machines (with propeller
in rear of the main planes) compared with the growing British preference for 'tractors' (with
air screw in front). Incidentally, the Maurice Farman, the last relic of the old type box-kite
with elevator in front appeared shorn of this prefix, and became known as the 'short-horn'
in contradistinction to its front-elevatored predecessor which, owing to its general reliability
and easy flying capabilities, had long been affectionately called the 'mechanical cow.' The
1913 Salon also saw some lingering attempts at attaining automatic stability by pendulum and
other freak devices.

Apart from the appearance of 'R.E.1,' perhaps the most notable development towards the end
of 1913 was the appearance of the Sopwith 'Tabloid 'tractor biplane. This single-seater machine,
evolved from the two-seater previously referred to, fitted with a Gnome engine of 80 horse-power,
had the, for those days, remarkable speed of 92 miles an hour; while a still more notable feature
was that it could remain in level flight at not more than 37 miles per hour. This machine is
of particular importance because it was the prototype and forerunner of the successive designs
of single-seater scout fighting machines which were used so extensively from 1914 to 1918.
It was also probably the first machine to be capable of reaching a height of 1,000 feet within
one minute. It was closely followed by the 'Bristol Bullet,' which was exhibited at the Olympia
Aero Show of March, 1914. This last pre-war show was mainly remarkable for the good workmanship
displayed--rather than for any distinct advance in design. In fact, there was a notable diversity
in the types displayed, but in detailed design considerable improvements were to be seen, such
as the general adoption of stranded steel cable in place of piano wire for the mail bracing.

IV. THE WAR PERIOD

Up to this point an attempt has been made to give some idea of the progress that was made during
the eleven years that had elapsed since the days of the Wrights' first flights. Much advance
had been made and aeroplanes had settled down, superficially at any rate, into more or less
standardised forms in three main types--tractor monoplanes, tractor biplanes, and pusher biplanes.
Through the application of the results of experiments with models in wind tunnels to full-scale
machines, considerable improvements had been made in the design of wing sections, which had
greatly increased the efficiency of aeroplanes by raising the amount of 'lift' obtained from
the wing compared with the 'drag' (or resistance to forward motion) which the same wing would
cause. In the same way the shape of bodies, interplane struts, etc., had been improved to be
of better stream-line shape, for the further reduction of resistance; while the problems of
stability were beginning to be tolerably well understood. Records (for what they are worth)
stood at 21,000 feet as far as height was concerned, 126 miles per hour for speed, and 24 hours
duration. That there was considerable room for development is, however, evidenced by a statement
made by the late B. C. Hucks (the famous pilot) in the course of an address delivered before
the Royal Aeronautical Society in July, 1914. 'I consider,' he said, 'that the present day
standard of flying is due far more to the improvement in piloting than to the improvement in
machines.... I consider those (early 1914) machines are only slight improvements on the machines
of three years ago, and yet they are put through evolutions which, at that time, were not even
dreamed of. I can take a good example of the way improvement in piloting has outdistanced improvement
in machines--in the case of myself, my 'looping' Bleriot. Most of you know that there is very
little difference between that machine and the 50 horse-power Bleriot of three years ago.'
This statement was, of course, to some extent an exaggeration and was by no means agreed with
by designers, but there was at the same time a germ of truth in it. There is at any rate little
doubt that the theory and practice of aeroplane design made far greater strides towards becoming
an exact science during the four years of War than it had done during the six or seven years
preceding it.

It is impossible in the space at disposal to treat of this development even with the meagre
amount of detail that has been possible while covering the 'settling down' period from 1911
to 1914, and it is proposed, therefore, to indicate the improvements by sketching briefly the
more noticeable difference in various respects between the average machine of 1914 and a similar
machine of 1918.

In the first place, it was soon found that it was possible to obtain greater efficiency and,
in particular, higher speeds, from tractor machines than from pusher machines with the air
screw behind the main planes. This was for a variety of reasons connected with the efficiency
of propellers and the possibility of reducing resistance to a greater extent in tractor machines
by using a 'stream-line' fuselage (or body) to connect the main planes with the tail. Full
advantage of this could not be taken, however, owing to the difficulty of fixing a machine-gun
in a forward direction owing to the presence of the propeller. This was finally overcome by
an ingenious device (known as an 'Interrupter gear') which allowed the gun to fire only when
none of the propeller blades was passing in front of the muzzle. The monoplane gradually fell
into desuetude, mainly owing to the difficulty of making that type adequately strong without
it becoming prohibitively heavy, and also because of its high landing speed and general lack
of manoeuvrability. The triplane was also little used except in one or two instances, and,
practically speaking, every machine was of the biplane tractor type.

A careful consideration of the salient features leading to maximum efficiency in aeroplanes--particularly
in regard to speed and climb, which were the two most important military requirements--showed
that a vital feature was the reduction in the amount of weight lifted per horse-power employed;
which in 1914 averaged from 20 to 25 lbs. This was effected both by gradual increase in the
power and size of the engines used and by great improvement in their detailed design (by increasing
compression ratio and saving weight whenever possible); with the result that the motive power
of single-seater aeroplanes rose from 80 and 100 horse-power in 1914 to an average of 200 to
300 horse-power, while the actual weight of the engine fell from 3 1/2-4 lbs. per horse-power
to an average of 2 1/2 lbs. per horse-power. This meant that while a pre-war engine of 100
horse-power would weigh some 400 lbs., the 1918 engine developing three times the power would
have less than double the weight. The result of this improvement was that a scout aeroplane
at the time of the Armistice would have 1 horse-power for every 8 lbs. of weight lifted, compared
with the 20 or 25 lbs. of its 1914 predecessors. This produced a considerable increase in the
rate of climb, a good postwar machine being able to reach 10,000 feet in about 5 minutes and
20,000 feet in under half an hour. The loading per square foot was also considerably increased;
this being rendered possible both by improvement in the design of wing sections and by more
scientific construction giving increased strength. It will be remembered that in the machine
of the very early period each square foot of surface had only to lift a weight of some 1 1/2
to 2 lbs., which by 1914 had been increased to about 4 lbs. By 1918 aeroplanes habitually had
a loading of 8 lbs. or more per square foot of area; which resulted in great increase in speed.
Although a speed of 126 miles per hour had been attained by a specially designed racing machine
over a short distance in 1914, the average at that period little exceeded, if at all, 100 miles
per hour; whereas in 1918 speeds of 130 miles per hour had become a commonplace, and shortly
afterwards a speed of over 166 miles an hour was achieved.

In another direction, also, that of size, great developments were made. Before the War a few
machines fitted with more than one engine had been built (the first being a triple Gnome-engined
biplane built by Messrs Short Bros. at Eastchurch in 1913), but none of large size had been
successfully produced, the total weight probably in no case exceeding about 2 tons. In 1916,
however, the twin engine Handley-Page biplane was produced, to be followed by others both in
this country and abroad, which represented a very great increase in size and, consequently,
load-carrying capacity. By the end of the War period several types were in existence weighing
a total of 10 tons when fully loaded, of which some 4 tons or more represented 'useful load'
available for crew, fuel, and bombs or passengers. This was attained through very careful attention
to detailed design, which showed that the material could be employed more efficiently as size
increased, and was also due to the fact that a large machine was not liable to be put through
the same evolutions as a small machine, and therefore could safely be built with a lower factor
of safety. Owing to the fact that a wing section which is adopted for carrying heavy loads
usually has also a somewhat low lift to drag ratio, and is not therefore productive of high
speed, these machines are not as fast as light scouts; but, nevertheless, they proved themselves
capable of achieving speeds of 100 miles an hour or more in some cases; which was faster than
the average small machine of 1914.

In one respect the development during the War may perhaps have proved to be somewhat disappointing,
as it might have been expected that great improvements would be effected in metal construction,
leading almost to the abolition of wooden structures. Although, however, a good deal of experimental
work was done which resulted in overcoming at any rate the worst of the difficulties, metal-built
machines were little used (except to a certain extent in Germany) chiefly on account of the
need for rapid production and the danger of delay resulting from switching over from known
and tried methods to experimental types of construction. The Germans constructed some large
machines, such as the giant Siemens-Schukhert machine, entirely of metal except for the wing
covering, while the Fokker and Junker firms about the time of the Armistice in 1918 both produced
monoplanes with very deep all-metal wings (including the covering) which were entirely unstayed
externally, depending for their strength on internal bracing. In Great Britain cable bracing
gave place to a great extent to 'stream-line wires,' which are steel rods rolled to a more
or less oval section, while tie-rods were also extensively used for the internal bracing of
the wings. Great developments in the economical use of material were also made in the direction
of using built-up main spars for the wings and interplane struts; spars composed of a series
of layers (or 'laminations') of different pieces of wood also being used.

Apart from the metallic construction of aeroplanes an enormous amount of work was done in the
testing of different steels and light alloys for use in engines, and by the end of the War
period a number of aircraft engines were in use of which the pistons and other parts were of
such alloys; the chief difficulty having been not so much in the design as in the successful
heat-treatment and casting of the metal.

An important development in connection with the inspection and testing of aircraft parts, particularly
in the case of metal, was the experimental application of X-ray photography, which showed up
latent defects, both in the material and in manufacture, which would otherwise have passed
unnoticed. This method was also used to test the penetration of glue into the wood on each
side of joints, so giving a measure of the strength; and for the effect of 'doping' the wings,
dope being a film (of cellulose acetate dissolved in acetone with other chemicals) applied
to the covering of wings and bodies to render the linen taut and weatherproof, besides giving
it a smooth surface for the lessening of 'skin friction' when passing rapidly through the air.

An important result of this experimental work was that it in many cases enabled designers to
produce aeroplane parts from less costly material than had previously been considered necessary,
without impairing the strength. It may be mentioned that it was found undesirable to use welded
joints on aircraft in any part where the material is subjectto a tensile or bending load, owing
to the danger resulting from bad workmanship causing the material to become brittle--an effect
which cannot be discovered except by cutting through the weld, which, of course, involves a
test to destruction. Written, as it has been, in August, 1920, it is impossible in this chapter
to give any conception of how the developments of War will be applied to commercial aeroplanes,
as few truly commercial machines have yet been designed, and even those still show distinct
traces of the survival of war mentality. When, however, the inevitable recasting of ideas arrives,
it will become evident, whatever the apparent modification in the relative importance of different
aspects of design, that enormous advances were made under the impetus of War which have left
an indelible mark on progress.

We have, during the seventeen years since aeroplanes first took the air, seen them grow from
tentative experimental structures of unknown and unknowable performance to highly scientific
products, of which not only the performances (in speed, load-carrying capacity, and climb)
are known, but of which the precise strength and degree of stability can be forecast with some
accuracy on the drawing board. For the rest, with the future lies--apart from some revolutionary
change in fundamental design--the steady development of a now well-tried and well-found engineering
structure.

PART III. AEROSTATICS

I. BEGINNINGS

Francesco Lana, with his 'aerial ship,' stands as one of the first great exponents of aerostatics;
up to the time of the Montgolfier and Charles balloon experiments, aerostatic and aerodynamic
research are so inextricably intermingled that it has been thought well to treat of them as
one, and thus the work of Lana, Veranzio and his parachute, Guzman's frauds, and the like,
have already been sketched. In connection with Guzman, Hildebrandt states in his Airships Past
and Present, a fairly exhaustive treatise on the subject up to 1906, the year of its publication,
that there were two inventors--or charlatans--Lorenzo de Guzman and a monk Bartolemeo Laurenzo,
the former of whom constructed an unsuccessful airship out of a wooden basket covered with
paper, while the latter made certain experiments with a machine of which no description remains.
A third de Guzman, some twenty-five years later, announced that he had constructed a flying
machine, with which he proposed to fly from a tower to prove his success to the public. The
lack of record of any fatal accident overtaking him about that time seems to show that the
experiment was not carried out.

Galien, a French monk, published a book L'art de naviguer dans l'air in 1757, in which it was
conjectured that the air at high levels was lighter than that immediately over the surface
of the earth. Galien proposed to bring down the upper layers of air and with them fill a vessel,
which by Archimidean principle would rise through the heavier atmosphere. If one went high
enough, said Galien, the air would be two thousand times as light as water, and it would be
possible to construct an airship, with this light air as lifting factor, which should be as
large as the town of Avignon, and carry four million passengers with their baggage. How this
high air was to be obtained is matter for conjecture--Galien seems to have thought in a vicious
circle, in which the vessel that must rise to obtain the light air must first be filled with
it in order to rise.

Cavendish's discovery of hydrogen in 1776 set men thinking, and soon a certain Doctor Black
was suggesting that vessels might be filled with hydrogen, in order that they might rise in
the air. Black, however, did not get beyond suggestion; it was Leo Cavallo who first made experiments
with hydrogen, beginning with filling soap bubbles, and passing on to bladders and special
paper bags. In these latter the gas escaped, and Cavallo was about to try goldbeaters' skin
at the time that the Montgolfiers came into the field with their hot air balloon.

Joseph and Stephen Montgolfier, sons of a wealthy French paper manufacturer, carried out many
experiments in physics, and Joseph interested himself in the study of aeronautics some time
before the first balloon was constructed by the brothers--he is said to have made a parachute
descent from the roof of his house as early as 1771, but of this there is no proof. Galien's
idea, together with study of the movement of clouds, gave Joseph some hope of achieving aerostation
through Galien's schemes, and the first experiments were made by passing steam into a receiver,
which, of course, tended to rise--but the rapid condensation of the steam prevented the receiver
from more than threatening ascent. The experiments were continued with smoke, which produced
only a slightly better effect, and, moreover, the paper bag into which the smoke was induced
permitted of escape through its pores; finding this method a failure the brothers desisted
until Priestley's work became known to them, and they conceived the use of hydrogen as a lifting
factor. Trying this with paper bags, they found that the hydrogen escaped through the pores
of the paper.

Their first balloon, made of paper, reverted to the hot-air principle; they lighted a fire
of wool and wet straw under the balloon--and as a matter of course the balloon took fire after
very little experiment; thereupon they constructed a second, having a capacity of 700 cubic
feet, and this rose to a height of over 1,000 feet. Such a success gave them confidence, and
they gave their first public exhibition on June 5th, 1783, with a balloon constructed of paper
and of a circumference of 112 feet. A fire was lighted under this balloon, which, after rising
to a height of 1,000 feet, descended through the cooling of the air inside a matter of ten
minutes. At this the Academie des Sciences invited the brothers to conduct experiments in Paris.

The Montgolfiers were undoubtedly first to send up balloons, but other experimenters were not
far behind them, and before they could get to Paris in response to their invitation, Charles,
a prominent physicist of those days, had constructed a balloon of silk, which he proofed against
escape of gas with rubber--the Roberts had just succeeded in dissolving this substance to permit
of making a suitable coating for the silk. With a quarter of a ton of sulphuric acid, and half
a ton of iron filings and turnings, sufficient hydrogen was generated in four days to fill
Charles's balloon, which went up on August 28th, 1783. Although the day was wet, Paris turned
out to the number of over 300,000 in the Champs de Mars, and cannon were fired to announce
the ascent of the balloon. This, rising very rapidly, disappeared amid the rain clouds, but,
probably bursting through no outlet being provided to compensate for the escape of gas, fell
soon in the neighbourhood of Paris. Here peasants, ascribing evil supernatural influence to
the fall of such a thing from nowhere, went at it with the implements of their craft--forks,
hoes, and the like--and maltreated it severely, finally attaching it to a horse's tail and
dragging it about until it was mere rag and scrap.

Meanwhile, Joseph Montgolfier, having come to Paris, set about the construction of a balloon
out of linen; this was in three diverse sections, the top being a cone 30 feet in depth, the
middle a cylinder 42 feet in diameter by 26 feet in depth, and the bottom another cone 20 feet
in depth from junction with the cylindrical portion to its point. The balloon was both lined
and covered with paper, decorated in blue and gold. Before ever an ascent could be attempted
this ambitious balloon was caught in a heavy rainstorm which reduced its paper covering to
pulp and tore the linen at its seams, so that a supervening strong wind tore the whole thing
to shreds.

Montgolfier's next balloon was spherical, having a capacity of 52,000 cubic feet. It was made
from waterproofed linen, and on September 19th, 1783, it made an ascent for the palace courtyard
at Versailles, taking up as passengers a cock, a sheep, and a duck. A rent at the top of the
balloon caused it to descend within eight minutes, and the duck and sheep were found none the
worse for being the first living things to leave the earth in a balloon, but the cock, evidently
suffering, was thought to have been affected by the rarefaction of the atmosphere at the tremendous
height reached--for at that time the general opinion was that the atmosphere did not extend
more than four or five miles above the earth's surface. It transpired later that the sheep
had trampled on the cock, causing more solid injury than any that might be inflicted by rarefied
air in an eight-minute ascent and descent of a balloon.

For achieving this flight Joseph Montgolfier received from the King of France a pension of
of L40, while Stephen was given the order of St Michael, and a patent of nobility was granted
to their father. They were made members of the Legion d'Honneur, and a scientific deputation,
of which Faujas de Saint-Fond, who had raised the funds with which Charles's hydrogen balloon
was constructed, presented to Stephen Montgolfier a gold medal struck in honour of his aerial
conquest. Since Joseph appears to have had quite as much share in the success as Stephen, the
presentation of the medal to one brother only was in questionable taste, unless it was intended
to balance Joseph's pension.

Once aerostation had been proved possible, many people began the construction of small balloons--the
wholehole thing was regarded as a matter of spectacles and a form of amusement by the great
majority. A certain Baron de Beaumanoir made the first balloon of goldbeaters' skin, this being
eighteen inches in diameter, and using hydrogen as a lifting factor. Few people saw any possibilities
in aerostation, in spite of the adventures of the duck and sheep and cock; voyages to the moon
were talked and written, and there was more of levity than seriousness over ballooning as a
rule. The classic retort of Benjamin Franklin stands as an exception to the general rule: asked
what was the use of ballooning--'What's the use of a baby?' he countered, and the spirit of
that reply brought both the dirigible and the aeroplane to being, later.

The next noteworthy balloon was one by Stephen Montgolfier, designed to take up passengers,
and therefore of rather large dimensions, as these things went then. The capacity was 100,000
cubic feet, the depth being 85 feet, and the exterior was very gaily decorated. A short, cylindrical
opening was made at the lower extremity, and under this a fire-pan was suspended, above the
passenger car of the balloon. On October 15th, 1783, Pilatre de Rozier made the first balloon
ascent--but the balloon was held captive, and only allowed to rise to a height of 80 feet.
But, a little later in 1783, Rozier secured the honour of making the first ascent in a free
balloon, taking up with him the Marquis d'Arlandes. It had been originally intended that two
criminals, condemned to death, should risk their lives in the perilous venture, with the prospect
of a free pardon if they made a safe descent, but d'Arlandes got the royal consent to accompany
Rozier, and the criminals lost their chance. Rozier and d'Arlandes made a voyage lasting for
twenty-five minutes, and, on landing, the balloon collapsed with such rapidity as almost to
suffocate Rozier, who, however, was dragged out to safety by d'Arlandes. This first aerostatic
journey took place on November 21st, 1783.

Some seven months later, on June 4th, 1784, a Madame Thible ascended in a free balloon, reaching
a height of 9,000 feet, and making a journey which lasted for forty-five minutes--the great
King Gustavus of Sweden witnessed this ascent. France grew used to balloon ascents in the course
of a few months, in spite of the brewing of such a storm as might have been calculated to wipe
out all but purely political interests. Meanwhile, interest in the new discovery spread across
the Channel, and on September 15th, 1784, one Vincent Lunardi made the first balloon voyage
in England, starting from the Artillery Ground at Chelsea, with a cat and dog as passengers,
and landing in a field in the parish of Standon, near Ware. There is a rather rare book which
gives a very detailed account of this first ascent in England, one copy of which is in the
library of the Royal Aeronautical Society; the venturesome Lunardi won a greater measure of
fame through his exploit than did Cody for his infinitely more courageous and--from a scientific
point of view--valuable first aeroplane ascent in this country.

The Montgolfier type of balloon, depending on hot air for its lifting power, was soon realised
as having dangerous limitations. There was always a possibility of the balloon catching fire
while it was being filled, and on landing there was further danger from the hot pan which kept
up the supply of hot air on the voyage--the collapsing balloon fell on the pan, inevitably.
The scientist Saussure, observing the filling of the balloons very carefully, ascertained that
it was rarefaction of the air which was responsible for the lifting power, and not the heat
in itself, and, owing to the rarefaction of the air at normal temperature at great heights
above the earth, the limit of ascent for a balloon of the Montgolfier type was estimated by
him at under 9,000 feet. Moreover, since the amount of fuel that could be carried for maintaining
the heat of the balloon after inflation was subject to definite limits, prescribed by the carrying
capacity of the balloon, the duration of the journey was necessarily limited just as strictly.

These considerations tended to turn the minds of those interested in aerostation to consideration
of the hydrogen balloon evolved by Professor Charles. Certain improvements had been made by
Charles since his first construction; he employed rubber-coated silk in the construction of
a balloon of 30 feet diameter, and provided a net for distributing the pressure uniformly over
the surface of the envelope; this net covered the top half of the balloon, and from its lower
edge dependent ropes hung to join on a wooden ring, from which the car of the balloon was suspended--apart
from the extension of the net so as to cover in the whole of the envelope, the spherical balloon
of to-day is virtually identical with that of Charles in its method of construction. He introduced
the valve at the top of the balloon, by which escape of gas could be controlled, operating
his valve by means of ropes which depended to the car of the balloon, and he also inserted
a tube, of about 7 inches diameter, at the bottom of the balloon, not only for purposes of
inflation, but also to provide a means of escape for gas in case of expansion due to atmospheric
conditions.

Sulphuric acid and iron filings were used by Charles for filling his balloon, which required
three days and three nights for the generation of its 14,000 cubic feet of hydrogen gas. The
inflation was completed on December 1st, 1783, and the fittings carried included a barometer
and a grapnel form of anchor. In addition to this, Charles provided the first 'ballon sonde'
in the form of a small pilot balloon which he handed to Montgolfier to launch before his own
ascent, in order to determine the direction and velocity of the wind. It was a graceful compliment
to his rival, and indicated that, although they were both working to the one end, their rivalry
was not a matter of bitterness.

Ascending on December 1st, 1783, Charles took with him one of the brothers Robert, and with
him made the record journey up to that date, covering a period of three and three-quarter hours,
in which time they journeyed some forty miles. Robert then landed, and Charles ascended again
alone, reaching such a height as to feel the effects of the rarefaction of the air, this very
largely due to the rapidity of his ascent. Opening the valve at the top of the balloon, he
descended thirty-five minutes after leaving Robert behind, and came to earth a few miles from
the point of the first descent. His discomfort over the rapid ascent was mainly due to the
fact that, when Robert landed, he forgot to compensate for the reduction of weight by taking
in further ballast, but the ascent proved the value of the tube at the bottom of the balloon
envelope, for the gas escaped very rapidly in that second ascent, and, but for the tube, the
balloon must inevitably have burst in the air, with fatal results for Charles.

As in the case of aeroplane flight, as soon as the balloon was proved practicable the flight
across the English Channel was talked of, and Rozier, who had the honour of the first flight,
announced his intention of being first to cross. But Blanchard, who had an idea for a 'flying
car,' anticipated him, and made a start from Dover on January 7th, 1785, taking with him an
American doctor named Jeffries. Blanchard fitted out his craft for the journey very thoroughly,
taking provisions, oars, and even wings, for propulsion in case of need. He took so much, in
fact, that as soon as the balloon lifted clear of the ground the whole of the ballast had to
be jettisoned, lest the balloon should drop into the sea. Half-way across the Channel the sinking
of the balloon warned Blanchard that he had to part with more than ballast to accomplish the
journey, and all the equipment went, together with certain books and papers that were on board
the car. The balloon looked perilously like collapsing, and both Blanchard and Jeffries began
to undress in order further to lighten their craft--Jeffries even proposed a heroic dive to
save the situation, but suddenly the balloon rose sufficiently to clear the French coast, and
the two voyagers landed at a point near Calais in the Forest of Gaines, where a marble column
was subsequently erected to commemorate the great feat.

Rozier, although not first across, determined to be second, and for that purpose he constructed
a balloon which was to owe its buoyancy to a combination of the hydrogen and hot air principles.
There was a spherical hydrogen balloon above, and beneath it a cylindrical container which
could be filled with hot air, thus compensating for the leakage of gas from the hydrogen portion
of the balloon--regulating the heat of his fire, he thought, would give him perfect control
in the matter of ascending and descending.

On July 6th, 1785, a favourable breeze gave Rozier his opportunity of starting from the French
coast, and with a passenger aboard he cast off in his balloon, which he had named the 'Aero-Montgolfiere.'
There was a rapid rise at first, and then for a time the balloon remained stationary over the
land, after which a cloud suddenly appeared round the balloon, denoting that an explosion had
taken place. Both Rozier and his companion were killed in the fall, so that he, first to leave
the earth by balloon, was also first victim to the art of aerostation.

There followed, naturally, a lull in the enthusiasm with which ballooning had been taken up,
so far as France was concerned. In Italy, however, Count Zambeccari took up hot-air ballooning,
using a spirit lamp to give him buoyancy, and on the first occasion when the balloon car was
set on fire Zambeccari let down his passenger by means of the anchor rope, and managed to extinguish
the fire while in the air. This reduced the buoyancy of the balloon to such an extent that
it fell into the Adriatic and was totally wrecked, Zambeccari being rescued by fishermen. He
continued to experiment up to 1812, when he attempted to ascend at Bologna; the spirit in his
lamp was upset by the collision of the car with a tree, and the car was again set on fire.
Zambeccari jumped from the car when it was over fifty feet above level ground, and was killed.
With him the Rozier type of balloon, combining the hydrogen and hot air principles, disappeared;
the combination was obviously too dangerous to be practical.

The brothers Robert were first to note how the heat of the sun acted on the gases within a
balloon envelope, and it has since been ascertained that sun rays will heat the gas in a balloon
to as much as 80 degrees Fahrenheit greater temperature than the surrounding atmosphere; hydrogen,
being less affected by change of temperature than coal gas, is the most suitable filling element,
and coal gas comes next as the medium of buoyancy. This for the free and non-navigable balloon,
though for the airship, carrying means of combustion, and in military work liable to ignition
by explosives, the gas helium seems likely to replace hydrogen, being non-combustible.

In spite of the development of the dirigible airship, there remains work for the free, spherical
type of balloon in the scientific field. Blanchard's companion on the first Channel crossing
by balloon, Dr Jeffries, was the first balloonist to ascend for purely scientific purposes;
as early as 1784 he made an ascent to a height of 9,000 feet, and observed a fall in temperature
of from degrees--at the level of London, where he began his ascent--to 29 degrees at the maximum
height reached. He took up an electrometer, a hydrometer, a compass, a thermometer, and a Toricelli
barometer, together with bottles of water, in order to collect samples of the air at different
heights. In 1785 he made a second ascent, when trigonometrical observations of the height of
the balloon were made from the French coast, giving an altitude of 4,800 feet.

The matter was taken up on its scientific side very early in America, experiments in Philadelphia
being almost simultaneous with those of the Montgolfiers in France. The flight of Rozier and
d'Arlandes inspired two members of the Philadelphia Philosophical Academy to construct a balloon
or series of balloons of their own design; they made a machine which consisted of no less than
47 small hydrogen balloons attached to a wicker car, and made certain preliminary trials, using
animals as passengers. This was followed by a captive ascent with a man as passenger, and eventually
by the first free ascent in America, which was undertaken by one James Wilcox, a carpenter,
on December 28th, 1783. Wilcox, fearful of falling into a river, attempted to regulate his
landing by cutting slits in some of the supporting balloons, which was the method adopted for
regulating ascent or descent in this machine. He first cut three, and then, finding that the
effect produced was not sufficient, cut three more, and then another five--eleven out of the
forty-seven. The result was so swift a descent that he dislocated his wrist on landing.

            A NOTE ON BALLONETS OR AIR BAGS.

Meusnier, toward the end of the eighteenth century, was first to conceive the idea of compensating
for the loss of gas due to expansion by fitting to the interior of a free balloon a ballonet,
or air bag, which could be pumped full of air so as to retain the shape and rigidity of the
envelope.

The ballonet became particularly valuable as soon as airship construction became general, and
it was in the course of advance in Astra Torres design that the project was introduced of using
the ballonets in order to give inclination from the horizontal. In the earlier Astra Torres,
trimming was accomplished by moving the car fore and aft--this in itself was an advance on
the separate 'sliding weigh' principle--and this was the method followed in the Astra Torres
bought by the British Government from France in 1912 for training airship pilots. Subsequently,
the two ballonets fitted inside the envelope were made to serve for trimming by the extent
of their inflation, and this method of securing inclination proved the best until exterior
rudders, and greater engine power, supplanted it, as in the Zeppelin and, in fact, all rigid types.

In the kite balloon, the ballonet serves the purpose of a rudder, filling itself through the
opening being kept pointed toward the wind--there is an ingenious type of air scoop with non-return
valve which assures perfect inflation. In this hose the non-return air valves, known as 'crab-pots,'
are fitted, on either side of the junction with the air-scoop. Two automatic air valves, one
for each ballonet, are fitted in the underside of the envelope, and, as the air pressure tends
to open these instead of keeping them shut, the spring of the valve is set inside the envelope.
Each spring is set to open at a pressure of 25 to 28 mm.

II. THE FIRST DIRIGIBLES

Having got off the earth, the very early balloonists set about the task of finding a means
of navigating the air but, lacking steam or other accessory power to human muscle, they failed
to solve the problem. Joseph Montgolfier speedily exploded the idea of propelling a balloon
either by means of oars or sails, pointing out that even in a dead calm a speed of five miles
an hour would be the limit achieved. Still, sailing balloons were constructed, even up to the
time of Andree, the explorer, who proposed to retard the speed of the balloon by ropes dragging
on the ground, and then to spread a sail which should catch the wind and permit of deviation
of the course. It has been proved that slight divergences from the course of the wind can be
obtained by this means, but no real navigation of the air could be thus accomplished.

Professor Wellner, of Brunn, brought up the idea of a sailing balloon in more practical fashion
in 1883. He observed that surfaces inclined to the horizontal have a slight lateral motion
in rising and falling, and deduced that by alternate lowering and raising of such surfaces
he would be able to navigate the air, regulating ascent and descent by increasing or decreasing
the temperature of his buoyant medium in the balloon. He calculated that a balloon, 50 feet
in diameter and 150 feet in length, with a vertical surface in front and a horizontal surface
behind, might be navigated at a speed of ten miles per hour, and in actual tests at Brunn he
proved that a single rise and fall moved the balloon three miles against the wind. His ideas
were further developed by Lebaudy in the construction of the early French dirigibles.

According to Hildebrandt,[*] the first sailing balloon was built in 1784 by Guyot, who made
his balloon egg-shaped, with the smaller end at the back and the longer axis horizontal; oars
were intended to propel the craft, and naturally it was a failure. Carra proposed the use of
paddle wheels, a step in the right direction, by mounting them on the sides of the car, but
the improvement was only slight. Guyton de Morveau, entrusted by the Academy of Dijon with
the building of a sailing balloon, first used a vertical rudder at the rear end of his construction--it
survives in the modern dirigible. His construction included sails and oars, but, lacking steam
or other than human propulsive power, the airship was a failure equally with Guyot's.

[*] Airships Past and Present.

Two priests, Miollan and Janinet, proposed to drive balloons through the air by the forcible
expulsion of the hot air in the envelope from the rear of the balloon. An opening was made
about half-way up the envelope, through which the hot air was to escape, buoyancy being maintained
by a pan of combustibles in the car. Unfortunately, this development of the Montgolfier type
never got a trial, for those who were to be spectators of the first flight grew exasperated
at successive delays, and in the end, thinking that the balloon would never rise, they destroyed
it.

Meusnier, a French general, first conceived the idea of compensating for loss of gas by carrying
an air bag inside the balloon, in order to maintain the full expansion of the envelope. The
brothers Robert constructed the first balloon in which this was tried and placed the air bag
near the neck of the balloon which was intended to be driven by oars, and steered by a rudder.
A violent swirl of wind which was encountered on the first ascent tore away the oars and rudder
and broke the ropes which held the air bag in position; the bag fell into the opening of the
neck and stopped it up, preventing the escape of gas under expansion. The Duc de Chartres,
who was aboard, realised the extreme danger of the envelope bursting as the balloon ascended,
and at 16,000 feet he thrust a staff through the envelope--another account says that he slit
it with his sword--and thus prevented disaster. The descent after this rip in the fabric was
swift, but the passengers got off without injury in the landing.

Meusnier, experimenting in various ways, experimented with regard to the resistance offered
by various shapes to the air, and found that an elliptical shape was best; he proposed to make
the car boat--shaped, in order further to decrease the resistance, and he advocated an entirely
rigid connection between the car and the body of the balloon, as indispensable to a dirigible.[*]
He suggested using three propellers, which were to be driven by hand by means of pulleys, and
calculated that a crew of eighty would be required to furnish sufficient motive power. Horizontal
fins were to be used to assure stability, and Meusnier thoroughly investigated the pressures
exerted by gases, in order to ascertain the stresses to which the envelope would be subjected.
More important still, he went into detail with regard to the use of air bags, in order to retain
the shape of the balloon under varying pressures of gas due to expansion and consequent losses;
he proposed two separate envelopes, the inner one containing gas, and the space between it
and the outer one being filled with air. Further, by compressing the air inside the air bag,
the rate of ascent or descent could be regulated. Lebaudy, acting on this principle, found
it possible to pump air at the rate of 35 cubic feet per second, thus making good loss of ballast
which had to be thrown overboard.

[*] Hildebrandt.

Meusnier's balloon, of course, was never constructed, but his ideas have been of value to aerostation
up to the present time. His career ended in the revolutionary army in 1793, when he was killed
in the fighting before Mayence, and the King of Prussia ordered all firing to cease until Meusnier
had been buried. No other genius came forward to carry on his work, and it was realised that
human muscle could not drive a balloon with certainty through the air; experiment in this direction
was abandoned for nearly sixty years, until in 1852 Giffard brought the first practicable power-driven
dirigible to being.

Giffard, inventor of the steam injector, had already made balloon ascents when he turned to
aeronautical propulsion, and constructed a steam engine of 5 horsepower with a weight of only
100 lbs.--a great achievement for his day. Having got his engine, he set about making the balloon
which it was to drive; this he built with the aid of two other enthusiasts, diverging from
Meusnier's ideas by making the ends pointed, and keeping the body narrowed from Meusnier's
ellipse to a shape more resembling a rather fat cigar. The length was 144 feet, and the greatest
diameter only 40 feet, while the capacity was 88,000 cubic feet. A net which covered the envelope
of the balloon supported a spar, 66 feet in length, at the end of which a triangular sail was
placed vertically to act as rudder. The car, slung 20 feet below the spar, carried the engine
and propeller. Engine and boiler together weighed 350 lbs., and drove the 11 foot propeller
at 110 revolutions per minute.

As precaution against explosion, Giffard arranged wire gauze in front of the stoke-hole of
his boiler, and provided an exhaust pipe which discharged the waste gases from the engine in
a downward direction. With this first dirigible he attained to a speed of between 6 and 8 feet
per second, thus proving that the propulsion of a balloon was a possibility, now that steam
had come to supplement human effort.

Three years later he built a second dirigible, reducing the diameter and increasing the length
of the gas envelope, with a view to reducing air resistance. The length of this was 230 feet,
the diameter only 33 feet, and the capacity was 113,000 cubic feet, while the upper part of
the envelope, to which the covering net was attached, was specially covered to ensure a stiffening
effect. The car of this dirigible was dropped rather lower than that of the first machine,
in order to provide more thoroughly against the danger of explosions. Giffard, with a companion
named Yon as passenger, took a trial trip on this vessel, and made a journey against the wind,
though slowly. In commencing to descend, the nose of the envelope tilted upwards, and the weight
of the car and its contents caused the net to slip, so that just before the dirigible reached
the ground, the envelope burst. Both Giffard and his companion escaped with very slight injuries.

Plans were immediately made for the construction of a third dirigible, which was to be 1,970
feet in length, 98 feet in extreme diameter, and to have a capacity of 7,800,000 cubic feet
of gas. The engine of this giant was to have weighed 30 tons, and with it Giffard expected
to attain a speed of 40 miles per hour. Cost prevented the scheme being carried out, and Giffard
went on designing small steam engines until his invention of the steam injector gave him the
funds to turn to dirigibles again. He built a captive balloon for the great exhibition in London
in 1868, at a cost of nearly L30,000, and designed a dirigible balloon which was to have held
a million and three quarters cubic feet of gas, carry two boilers, and cost about L40,000.
The plans were thoroughly worked out, down to the last detail, but the dirigible was never
constructed. Giffard went blind, and died in 1882--he stands as the great pioneer of dirigible
construction, more on the strength of the two vessels which he actually built than on that
of the ambitious later conceptions of his brain.

In 1872 Dupuy de Lome, commissioned by the French government, built a dirigible which he proposed
to drive by man-power--it was anticipated that the vessel would be of use in the siege of Paris,
but it was not actually tested till after the conclusion of the war. The length of this vessel
was 118 feet, its greatest diameter 49 feet, the ends being pointed, and the motive power was
by a propeller which was revolved by the efforts of eight men. The vessel attained to about
the same speed as Giffard's steam-driven airship; it was capable of carrying fourteen men,
who, apart from these engaged in driving the propeller, had to manipulate the pumps which controlled
the air bags inside the gas envelope.

In the same year Paul Haenlein, working in Vienna, produced an airship which was a direct forerunner
of the Lebaudy type, 164 feet in length, 30 feet greatest diameter, and with a cubic capacity
of 85,000 feet. Semi-rigidity was attained by placing the car as close to the envelope as possible,
suspending it by crossed ropes, and the motive power was a gas engine of the Lenoir type, having
four horizontal cylinders, and giving about 5 horse-power with a consumption of about 250 cubic
feet of gas per hour. This gas was sucked from the envelope of the balloon, which was kept
fully inflated by pumping in compensating air to the air bags inside the main envelope. A propeller,
15 feet in diameter, was driven by the Lenoir engine at 40 revolutions per minute. This was
the first instance of the use of an internal combustion engine in connection with aeronautical
experiments.

The envelope of this dirigible was rendered airtight by means of internal rubber coating, with
a thinner film on the outside. Coal gas, used for inflation, formed a suitable fuel for the
engine, but limited the height to which the dirigible could ascend. Such trials as were made
were carried out with the dirigible held captive, and a speed of I 5 feet per second was attained.
Full experiment was prevented through funds running low, but Haenlein's work constituted a
distinct advance on all that had been done previously.

Two brothers, Albert and Gaston Tissandier, were next to enter the field of dirigible construction;
they had experimented with balloons during the Franc-Prussian War, and had attempted to get
into Paris by balloon during the siege, but it was not until 1882 that they produced their
dirigible.

This was 92 feet in length and 32 feet in greatest diameter, with a cubic capacity of 37,500
feet, and the fabric used was varnished cambric. The car was made of bamboo rods, and in addition
to its crew of three, it carried a Siemens dynamo, with 24 bichromate cells, each of which
weighed 17 lbs. The motor gave out 1 1/2 horse-power, which was sufficient to drive the vessel
at a speed of up to 10 feet per second. This was not so good as Haenlein's previous attempt
and, after L2,000 had been spent, the Tissandier abandoned their experiments, since a 5-mile
breeze was sufficient to nullify the power of the motor.

Renard, a French officer who had studied the problem of dirigible construction since 1878,
associated himself first with a brother officer named La Haye, and subsequently with another
officer, Krebs, in the construction of the second dirigible to be electrically-propelled. La
Haye first approached Colonel Laussedat, in charge of the Engineers of the French Army, with
a view to obtaining funds, but was refused, in consequence of the practical failure of all
experiments since 1870. Renard, with whom Krebs had now associated himself, thereupon went
to Gambetta, and succeeded in getting a promise of a grant of L8,000 for the work; with this
promise Renard and Krebs set to work.

They built their airship in torpedo shape, 165 feet in length, and of just over 27 feet greatest
diameter--the greatest diameter was at the front, and the cubic capacity was 66,000 feet. The
car itself was 108 feet in length, and 4 1/2 feet broad, covered with silk over the bamboo
framework. The 23 foot diameter propeller was of wood, and was driven by an electric motor
connected to an accumulator, and yielding 8.5 horsepower. The sweep of the propeller, which
might have brought it in contact with the ground in landing, was counteracted by rendering
it possible to raise the axis on which the blades were mounted, and a guide rope was used to
obviate damage altogether, in case of rapid descent. There was also a 'sliding weight' which
was movable to any required position to shift the centre of gravity as desired. Altogether,
with passengers and ballast aboard, the craft weighed two tons.

In the afternoon of August 8th, 1884, Renard and Krebs ascended in the dirigible--which they
had named 'La France,' from the military ballooning ground at Chalais-Meudon, making a circular
flight of about five miles, the latter part of which was in the face of a slight wind. They
found that the vessel answered well to her rudder, and the five-mile flight was made successfully
in a period of 23 minutes. Subsequent experimental flights determined that the air speed of
the dirigible was no less than 14 1/2 miles per hour, by far the best that had so far been
accomplished in dirigible flight. Seven flights in all were made, and of these five were completely
successful, the dirigible returning to its starting point with no difficulty. On the other
two flights it had to be towed back.

Renard attempted to repeat his construction on a larger scale, but funds would not permit,
and the type was abandoned; the motive power was not sufficient to permit of more than short
flights, and even to the present time electric motors, with their necessary accumulators, are
far too cumbrous to compete with the self-contained internal combustion engine. France had
to wait for the Lebaudy brothers, just as Germany had to wait for Zeppelin and Parseval.

Two German experimenters, Baumgarten and Wolfert, fitted a Daimler motor to a dirigible balloon
which made its first ascent at Leipzig in 1880. This vessel had three cars, and placing a passenger
in one of the outer cars[*] distributed the load unevenly, so that the whole vessel tilted
over and crashed to the earth, the occupants luckily escaping without injury. After Baumgarten's
death, Wolfert determined to carry on with his experiments, and, having achieved a certain
measure of success, he announced an ascent to take place on the Tempelhofer Field, near Berlin,
on June 12th, 1897. The vessel, travelling with the wind, reached a height of 600 feet, when
the exhaust of the motor communicated flame to the envelope of the balloon, and Wolfert, together
with a passenger he carried, was either killed by the fall or burnt to death on the ground.
Giffard had taken special precautions to avoid an accident of this nature, and Wolfert, failing
to observe equal care, paid the full penalty.

[*] Hildebrandt.

Platz, a German soldier, attempting an ascent on the Tempelhofer Field in the Schwartz airship
in 1897, merely proved the dirigible a failure. The vessel was of aluminium, 0.008 inch in
thickness, strengthened by an aluminium lattice work; the motor was two-cylindered petrol-driven;
at the first trial the metal developed such leaks that the vessel came to the ground within
four miles of its starting point. Platz, who was aboard alone as crew, succeeded in escaping
by jumping clear before the car touched earth, but the shock of alighting broke up the balloon,
and a following high wind completed the work of full destruction. A second account says that
Platz, finding the propellers insufficient to drive the vessel against the wind, opened the
valve and descended too rapidly.

The envelope of this dirigible was 156 feet in length, and the method of filling was that of
pushing in bags, fill them with gas, and then pulling them to pieces and tearing them out of
the body of the balloon. A second contemplated method of filling was by placing a linen envelope
inside the aluminium casing, blowing it out with air, and then admitting the gas between the
linen and the aluminium outer casing. This would compress the air out of the linen envelope,
which was to be withdrawn when the aluminium casing had been completely filled with gas.

All this, however, assumes that the Schwartz type--the first rigid dirigible, by the way--would
prove successful. As it proved a failure on the first trial, the problem of filling it did
not arise again.

By this time Zeppelin, retired from the German army, had begun to devote himself to the study
of dirigible construction, and, a year after Schwartz had made his experiment and had failed,
he got together sufficient funds for the formation of a limitedliability company, and started
on the construction of the first of his series of airships. The age of tentative experiment
was over, and, forerunner of the success of the heavier-than-air type of flying machine, successful
dirigible flight was accomplished by Zeppelin in Germany, and by Santos-Dumont in France.

III. SANTOS-DUMONT

A Brazilian by birth, Santos-Dumont began in Paris in the year 1898 to make history, which
he subsequently wrote. His book, My Airships, is a record of his eight years of work on lighter-than-air
machines, a period in which he constructed no less than fourteen dirigible balloons, beginning
with a cubic capacity of 6,350 feet, and an engine of 3 horse-power, and rising to a cubic
capacity of 71,000 feet on the tenth dirigible he constructed, and an engine of 60 horse-power,
which was fitted to the seventh machine in order of construction, the one which he built after
winning the Deutsch Prize.

The student of dirigible construction is recommended to Santos-Dumont's own book not only as
a full record of his work, but also as one of the best stories of aerial navigation that has
ever been written. Throughout all his experiments, he adhered to the non-rigid type; his first
dirigible made its first flight on September 18th, 1898, starting from the Jardin d'Acclimatation
to the west of Paris; he calculated that his 3 horse-power engine would yield sufficient power
to enable him to steer clear of the trees with which the starting-point was surrounded, but,
yielding to the advice of professional aeronauts who were present, with regard to the placing
of the dirigible for his start, he tore the envelope against the trees. Two days later, having
repaired the balloon, he made an ascent of 1,300 feet. In descending, the hydrogen left in
the balloon contracted, and Santos-Dumont narrowly escaped a serious accident in coming to
the ground.

His second machine, built in the early spring of 1899, held over 7,000 cubic feet of gas and
gave a further 44 lbs. of ascensional force. The balloon envelope was very long and very narrow;
the first attempt at flight was made in wind and rain, and the weather caused sufficient contraction
of the hydrogen for a wind gust to double the machine up and toss it into the trees near its
starting-point. The inventor immediately set about the construction of 'Santos-Dumont No. 3,'
on which he made a number of successful flights, beginning on November 13th, 1899. On the last
of his flights, he lost the rudder of the machine and made a fortunate landing at Ivry. He
did not repair the balloon, considering it too clumsy in form and its motor too small. Consequently
No. 4 was constructed, being finished on the 1st, August, 1900. It had a cubic capacity of
14,800 feet, a length of 129 feet and greatest diameter of 16.7 feet, the power plant being
a 7 horse-power Buchet motor. Santos-Dumont sat on a bicycle saddle fixed to the long bar suspended
under the machine, which also supported motor propeller, ballast; and fuel. The experiment
of placing the propeller at the stem instead of at the stern was tried, and the motor gave
it a speed of 100 revolutions per minute. Professor Langley witnessed the trials of the machine,
which proved before the members of the International Congress of Aeronautics, on September
19th, that it was capable of holding its own against a strong wind.

Finding that the cords with which his dirigible balloon cars were suspended offered almost
as much resistance to the air as did the balloon itself, Santos-Dumont substituted piano wire
and found that the alteration constituted greater progress than many a more showy device. He
altered the shape and size of his No. 4 to a certain extent and fitted a motor of 12 horse-power.
Gravity was controlled by shifting weights worked by a cord; rudder and propeller were both
placed at the stern. In Santos-Dumont's book there is a certain amount of confusion between
the No. 4 and No. 5 airships, until he explains that 'No. 5' is the reconstructed 'No. 4.'
It was with No. 5 that he won the Encouragement Prize presented by the Scientific Commission
of the Paris Aero Club. This he devoted to the first aeronaut who between May and October of
1900 should start from St Cloud, round the Eiffel Tower, and return. If not won in that year,
the prize was to remain open the following year from May 1st to October 1st, and so on annually
until won. This was a simplification of the conditions of the Deutsch Prize itself, the winning
of which involved a journey of 11 kilometres in 30 minutes.

The Santos-Dumont No. 5, which was in reality the modified No. 4 with new keel, motor, and
propeller, did the course of the Deutsch Prize, but with it Santos-Dumont made no attempt to
win the prize until July of 1901, when he completed the course in 40 minutes, but tore his
balloon in landing. On the 8th August, with his balloon leaking, he made a second attempt,
and narrowly escaped disaster, the airship being entirely wrecked. Thereupon he built No. 6
with a cubic capacity of 22,239 feet and a lifting power of 1,518 lbs.

With this machine he won the Deutsch Prize on October 19th, 1901, starting with the disadvantage
of a side wind of 20 feet per second. He reached the Eiffel Tower in 9 minutes and, through
miscalculating his turn, only just missed colliding with it. He got No. 6 under control again
and succeeded in getting back to his starting-point in 29 1/2 minutes, thus winning the 125,000
francs which constituted the Deutsch Prize, together with a similar sum granted to him by the
Brazilian Government for the exploit. The greater part of this money was given by Santos-Dumont
to charities.

He went on building after this until he had made fourteen non-rigid dirigibles; of these No.
12 was placed at the disposal of the military authorities, while the rest, except for one that
was sold to an American and made only one trip, were matters of experiment for their maker.
His conclusions from his experiments may be gathered from his own work:--

'On Friday, 31st July, 1903, Commandant Hirschauer and Lieutenant-Colonel Bourdeaux spent the
afternoon with me at my airship station at Neuilly St James, where I had my three newest airships--the
racing 'No. 7,' the omnibus 'No. 10,' and the runabout 'No. 9'--ready for their study. Briefly,
I may say that the opinions expressed by the representatives of the Minister of War were so
unreservedly favourable that a practical test of a novel character was decided to be made.
Should the airship chosen pass successfully through it the result will be conclusive of its
military value.

'Now that these particular experiments are leaving my exclusively private control I will say
no more of them than what has been already published in the French press. The test will probably
consist of an attempt to enter one of the French frontier towns, such as Belfort or Nancy,
on the same day that the airship leaves Paris. It will not, of course, be necessary to make
the whole journey in the airship. A military railway wagon may be assigned to carry it, with
its balloon uninflated, with tubes of hydrogen to fill it, and with all the necessary machinery
and instruments arranged beside it. At some station a short distance from the town to be entered
the wagon may be uncoupled from the train, and a sufficient number of soldiers accompanying
the officers will unload the airship and its appliances, transport the whole to the nearest
open space, and at once begin inflating the balloon. Within two hours from quitting the train
the airship may be ready for its flight to the interior of the technically-besieged town.

'Such may be the outline of the task--a task presented imperiously to French balloonists by
the events of 1870-1, and which all the devotion and science of the Tissandier brothers failed
to accomplish. To-day the problem may be set with better hope of success. All the essential
difficulties may be revived by the marking out of a hostile zone around the town that must
be entered; from beyond the outer edge of this zone, then, the airship will rise and take its
flight--across it.

'Will the airship be able to rise out of rifle range? I have always been the first to insist
that the normal place of the airship is in low altitudes, and I shall have written this book
to little purpose if I have not shown the reader the real dangers attending any brusque vertical
mounting to considerable heights. For this we have the terrible Severo accident before our
eyes. In particular, I have expressed astonishment at hearing of experimenters rising to these
altitudes without adequate purpose in their early stages of experience with dirigible balloons.
All this is very different, however, from a reasoned, cautious mounting, whose necessity has
been foreseen and prepared for.'

Probably owing to the fact that his engines were not of sufficient power, Santos-Dumont cannot
be said to have solved the problem of the military airship, although the French Government
bought one of his vessels. At the same time, he accomplished much in furthering and inciting
experiment with dirigible airships, and he will always rank high among the pioneers of aerostation.
His experiments might have gone further had not the Wright brothers' success in America and
French interest in the problem of the heavier-than-air machine turned him from the study of
dirigibles to that of the aeroplane, in which also he takes high rank among the pioneers, leaving
the construction of a successful military dirigible to such men as the Lebaudy brothers, Major
Parseval, and Zeppelin.

IV. THE MILITARY DIRIGIBLE

Although French and German experiment in connection with the production of an airship which
should be suitable for military purposes proceeded side by side, it is necessary to outline
the development in the two countries separately, owing to the differing character of the work
carried out. So far as France is concerned, experiment began with the Lebaudy brothers, originally
sugar refiners, who turned their energies to airship construction in 1899. Three years of work
went to the production of their first vessel, which was launched in 1902, having been constructed
by them together with a balloon manufacturer named Surcouf and an engineer, Julliot. The Lebaudy
airships were what is known as semi-rigids, having a spar which ran practically the full length
of the gas bag to which it was attached in such a way as to distribute the load evenly. The
car was suspended from the spar, at the rear end of which both horizontal and vertical rudders
were fixed, whilst stabilising fins were provided at the stern of the gas envelope itself.
The first of the Lebaudy vessels was named the 'Jaune'; its length was 183 feet and its maximum
diameter 30 feet, while the cubic capacity was 80,000 feet. The power unit was a 40 horse-power
Daimler motor, driving two propellers and giving a maximum speed of 26 miles per hour. This
vessel made 29 trips, the last of which took place in November, 1902, when the airship was
wrecked through collision with a tree.

The second airship of Lebaudy construction was 7 feet longer than the first, and had a capacity
of 94,000 cubic feet of gas with a triple air bag of 17,500 cubic feet to compensate for loss
of gas; this latter was kept inflated by a rotary fan. The vessel was eventually taken over
by the French Government and may be counted the first dirigible airship considered fit on its
tests for military service.

Later vessels of the Lebaudy type were the 'Patrie' and 'Republique,' in which both size and
method of construction surpassed those of the two first attempts. The 'Patrie' was fitted with
a 60 horse-power engine which gave a speed of 28 miles an hour, while the vessel had a radius
of 280 miles, carrying a crew of nine. In the winter of 1907 the 'Patrie' was anchored at Verdun,
and encountered a gale which broke her hold on her mooring-ropes. She drifted derelict westward
across France, the Channel, and the British Isles, and was lost in the Atlantic.

The 'Republique' had an 80 horse-power motor, which, however, only gave her the same speed
as the 'Patrie.' She was launched in July, 1908, and within three months came to an end which
constituted a tragedy for France. A propeller burst while the vessel was in the air, and one
blade, flying toward the envelope, tore in it a great gash; the airship crashed to earth, and
the two officers and two non-commissioned officers who were in the car were instantaneously killed.

The Clement Bayard, and subsequently the Astra-Torres, non-rigids, followed on the early Lebaudys
and carried French dirigible construction up to 1912. The Clement Bayard was a simple non-rigid
having four lobes at the stern end to assist stability. These were found to retard the speed
of the airship, which in the second and more successful construction was driven by a Clement
Bayard motor of 100 horse-power at a speed of 30 miles an hour. On August 23rd, 1909, while
being tried for acceptance by the military authorities, this vessel achieved a record by flying
at a height of 5,000 feet for two hours. The Astra-Torres non-rigids were designed by a Spaniard,
Senor Torres, and built by the Astra Company. The envelope was of trefoil shape, this being
due to the interior rigging from the suspension band; the exterior appearance is that of two
lobes side by side, overlaid by a third. The interior rigging, which was adopted with a view
to decreasing air resistance, supports a low-hung car from the centre of the envelope; steering
is accomplished by means of horizontal planes fixed on the envelope at the stern, and vertical
planes depending beneath the envelope, also at the stern end.

One of the most successful of French pre-war dirigibles was a Clement Bayard built in 1912.
In this twin propellers were placed at the front and horizontal and vertical rudders in a sort
of box formation under the envelope at the stern. The envelope was stream-lined, while the
car of the machine was placed well forward with horizontal controlling planes above it and
immediately behind the propellers. This airship, which was named 'Dupuy de Lome,' may be ranked
as about the most successful non-rigid dirigible constructed prior to the War.

Experiments with non-rigids in Germany was mainly carried on by Major Parseval, who produced
his first vessel in 1906. The main feature of this airship consisted in variation in length
of the suspension cables at the will of the operator, so that the envelope could be given an
upward tilt while the car remained horizontal in order to give the vessel greater efficiency
in climbing. In this machine, the propeller was placed above and forward of the car, and the
controlling planes were fixed directly to the envelope near the forward end. A second vessel
differed from the first mainly in the matter of its larger size, variable suspension being
again employed, together with a similar method of control. The vessel was moderately successful,
and under Major Parseval's direction a third was constructed for passenger carrying, with two
engines of 120 horsepower, each driving propellers of 13 feet diameter. This was the most successful
of the early German dirigibles; it made a number of voyages with a dozen passengers in addition
to its crew, as well as proving its value for military purposes by use as a scout machine in
manoeuvres. Later Parsevals were constructed of stream-line form, about 300 feet in length,
and with engines sufficiently powerful to give them speeds up to 50 miles an hour.

Major Von Gross, commander of a Balloon Battalion, produced semi-rigid dirigibles from 1907
onward. The second of these, driven by two 75 horse-power Daimler motors, was capable of a
speed of 27 miles an hour; in September of 1908 she made a trip from and back to Berlin which
lasted 13 hours, in which period she covered 176 miles with four passengers and reached a height
of 4,000 feet. Her successor, launched in April of 1909, carried a wireless installation, and
the next to this, driven by four motors of 75 horse-power each, reached a speed of 45 miles
an hour. As this vessel was constructed for military purposes, very few details either of its
speed or method of construction were made public.

Practically all these vessels were discounted by the work of Ferdinand von Zeppelin, who set
out from the first with the idea of constructing a rigid dirigible. Beginning in 1898, he built
a balloon on an aluminium framework covered with linen and silk, and divided into interior
compartments holding linen bags which were capable of containing nearly 400,000 cubic feet
of hydrogen. The total length of this first Zeppelin airship was 420 feet and the diameter
38 feet. Two cars were rigidly attached to the envelope, each carrying a 16 horse-power motor,
driving propellers which were rigidly connected to the aluminium framework of the balloon.
Vertical and horizontal screws were used for lifting and forward driving and a sliding weight
was used to raise or lower the stem of the vessel out of the horizontal in order to rise or
descend without altering the load by loss of ballast or the lift by loss of gas.

The first trial of this vessel was made in July of 1900, and was singularly unfortunate. The
winch by which the sliding weight was operated broke, and the balloon was so bent that the
working of the propellers was interfered with, as was the steering. A speed of 13 feet per
second was attained, but on descending, the airship ran against some piles and was further
damaged. Repairs were completed by the end of September, 1900, and on a second trial flight
made on October 21st a speed of 30 feet per second was reached.

Zeppelin was far from satisfied with the performance of this vessel, and he therefore set about
collecting funds for the construction of a second, which was completed in 1905. By this time
the internal combustion engine had been greatly improved, and without any increase of weight,
Zeppelin was able to instal two motors of 85 horse-power each. The total capacity was 367,000
cubic feet of hydrogen, carried in 16 gas bags inside the framework, and the weight of the
whole construction was 9 tons--a ton less than that of the first Zeppelin airship. Three vertical
planes at front and rear controlled horizontal steering, while rise and fall was controlled
by horizontal planes arranged in box form. Accident attended the first trial of this second
airship, which took place over the Bodensee on November 30th, 1905, 'It had been intended to
tow the raft, to which it was anchored, further from the shore against the wind. But the water
was too low to allow the use of the raft. The balloon was therefore mounted on pontoons, pulled
out into the lake, and taken in tow by a motor-boat. It was caught by a strong wind which was
blowing from the shore, and driven ahead at such a rate that it overtook the motor-boat. The
tow rope was therefore at once cut, but it unexpectedly formed into knots and became entangled
with the airship, pulling the front end down into the water. The balloon was then caught by
the wind and lifted into the air, when the propellers were set in motion. The front end was
at this instant pointing in a downward direction, and consequently it shot into the water,
where it was found necessary to open the valves.'[*]

[*] Hildebrandt, Airships Past and Present.

The damage done was repaired within six weeks, and the second trial was made on January 17th,
1906. The lifting force was too great for the weight, and the dirigible jumped immediately
to 1,500 feet. The propellers were started, and the dirigible brought to a lower level, when
it was found possible to drive against the wind. The steering arrangements were found too sensitive,
and the motors were stopped, when the vessel was carried by the wind until it was over land--it
had been intended that the trial should be completed over water. A descent was successfully
accomplished and the dirigible was anchored for the night, but a gale caused it so much damage
that it had to be broken up. It had achieved a speed of 30 feet per second with the motors
developing only 36 horse-power and, gathering from this what speed might have been accomplished
with the full 170 horse-power, Zeppelin set about the construction of No. 3, with which a number
of successful voyages were made, proving the value of the type for military purposes.

No. 4 was the most notable of the early Zeppelins, as much on account of its disastrous end
as by reason of any superior merit in comparison with No. 3. The main innovation consisted
in attaching a triangular keel to the under side of the envelope, with two gaps beneath which
the cars were suspended. Two Daimler Mercedes motors of 110 horse-power each were placed one
in each car, and the vessel carried sufficient fuel for a 60-hour cruise with the motors running
at full speed. Each motor drove a pair of three-bladed metal propellers rigidly attached to
the framework of the envelope and about 15 feet in diameter. There was a vertical rudder at
the stern of the envelope and horizontal controlling planes were fixed on the sides of the
envelope. The best performances and the end of this dirigible were summarised as follows by
Major Squier:--

'Its best performances were two long trips performed during the summer of 1908. The first,
on July 4th, lasted exactly 12 hours, during which time it covered a distance of 235 miles,
crossing the mountains to Lucerne and Zurich, and returning to the balloon-house near Friedrichshafen,
on Lake Constance. The average speed on this trip was 32 miles per hour. On August 4th, this
airship attempted a 24-hour flight, which was one of the requirements made for its acceptance
by the Government. It left Friedrichshafen in the morning with the intention of following the
Rhine as far as Mainz, and then returning to its starting-point, straight across the country.
A stop of 3 hours 30 minutes was made in the afternoon of the first day on the Rhine, to repair
the engine. On the return, a second stop was found necessary near Stuttgart, due to difficulties
with the motors, and some loss of gas. While anchored to the ground, a storm arose which broke
loose the anchorage, and, as the balloon rose in the air, it exploded and took fire (due to
causes which have never been actually determined and published) and fell to the ground, where
it was completely destroyed. On this journey, which lasted in all 31 hours 15 minutes, the
airship was in the air 20 hours 45 minutes, and covered a total distance of 378 miles.

'The patriotism of the German nation was aroused. Subscriptions were immediately started, and
in a short space of time a quarter of a million pounds had been raised. A Zeppelin Society
was formed to direct the expenditure of this fund. Seventeen thousand pounds has been expended
in purchasing land near Friedrichshafen; workshops were erected, and it was announced that
within one year the construction of eight airships of the Zeppelin type would be completed.
Since the disaster to 'Zeppelin IV.' the Crown Prince of Germany made a trip in 'Zeppelin No.
3,' which had been called back into service, and within a very few days the German Emperor
visited Friedrichshafen for the purpose of seeing the airship in flight. He decorated Count
Zeppelin with the order of the Black Eagle. German patriotism and enthusiasm has gone further,
and the "German Association for an Aerial Fleet" has been organised in sections throughout
the country. It announces its intention of building 50 garages (hangars) for housing airships.'

By January of 1909, with well over a quarter of a million in hand for the construction of Zeppelin
airships, No. 3 was again brought out, probably in order to maintain public enthusiasm in respect
of the possible new engine of war. In March of that year No. 3 made a voyage which lasted for
4 hours over and in the vicinity of Lake Constance; it carried 26 passengers for a distance
of nearly 150 miles.

Before the end of March, Count Zeppelin determined to voyage from Friedrichshafen to Munich,
together with the crew of the airship and four military officers. Starting at four in the morning
and ascertaining their route from the lights of railway stations and the ringing of bells in
the towns passed over, the journey was completed by nine o'clock, but a strong south-west gale
prevented the intended landing. The airship was driven before the wind until three o'clock
in the afternoon, when it landed safely near Dingolfing; by the next morning the wind had fallen
considerably and the airship returned to Munich and landed on the parade ground as originally
intended. At about 3.30 in the afternoon, the homeward journey was begun, Friedrichshafen being
reached at about 7.30.

These trials demonstrated that sufficient progress had been made to justify the construction
of Zeppelin airships for use with the German army. No. 3 had been manoeuvred safely if not
successfully in half a gale of wind, and henceforth it was known as 'SMS. Zeppelin I.,' at
the bidding of the German Emperor, while the construction of 'SMS. Zeppelin II.' was rapidly
proceeded with. The fifth construction of Count Zeppelin's was 446 feet in length, 42 1/2 feet
in diameter, and contained 530,000 cubic feet of hydrogen gas in 17 separate compartments.
Trial flights were made on the 26th May, 1909, and a week later she made a record voyage of
940 miles, the route being from Lake Constance over Ulm, Nuremberg, Leipzig, Bitterfeld, Weimar,
Heilbronn, and Stuttgart, descending near Goppingen; the time occupied in the flight was upwards
of 38 hours.

In landing, the airship collided with a pear-tree, which damaged the bows and tore open two
sections of the envelope, but repairs on the spot enabled the return journey to Friedrichshafen
to be begun 24 hours later. In spite of the mishap the Zeppelin had once more proved itself
as a possible engine of war, and thenceforth Germany pinned its faith to the dirigible, only
developing the aeroplane to such an extent as to keep abreast of other nations. By the outbreak
of war, nearly 30 Zeppelins had been constructed; considerably more than half of these were
destroyed in various ways, but the experiments carried on with each example of the type permitted
of improvements being made. The first fatality occurred in September, 1913, when the fourteenth
Zeppelin to be constructed, known as Naval Zeppelin L.1, was wrecked in the North Sea by a
sudden storm and her crew of thirteen were drowned. About three weeks after this, Naval Zeppelin
L.2, the eighteenth in order of building, exploded in mid-air while manoeuvring over Johannisthal.
She was carrying a crew of 25, who were all killed.

By 1912 the success of the Zeppelin type brought imitators. Chief among them was the Schutte-Lanz,
a Mannheim firm, which produced a rigid dirigible with a wooden framework, wire braced. This
was not a cylinder like the Zeppelin, but reverted to the cigar shape and contained about the
same amount of gas as the Zeppelin type. The Schutte-Lanz was made with two gondolas rigidly
attached to the envelope in which the gas bags were placed. The method of construction involved
greater weight than was the case with the Zeppelin, but the second of these vessels, built
with three gondolas containing engines, and a navigating cabin built into the hull of the airship
itself, proved quite successful as a naval scout until wrecked on the islands off the coast
of Denmark late in 1914. The last Schutte-Lanz to be constructed was used by the Germans for
raiding England, and was eventually brought down in flames at Cowley.

V. BRITISH AIRSHIP DESIGN

As was the case with the aeroplane, Great Britain left France and Germany to make the running
in the early days of airship construction; the balloon section of the Royal Engineers was compelled
to confine its energies to work with balloons pure and simple until well after the twentieth
century had dawned, and such experiments as were made in England were done by private initiative.
As far back as 1900 Doctor Barton built an airship at the Alexandra Palace and voyaged across
London in it. Four years later Mr E. T. Willows of Cardiff produced the first successful British
dirigible, a semi-rigid 74 feet in length and 18 feet in diameter, engined with a 7 horse-power
Peugot twin-cylindered motor. This drove a two-bladed propeller at the stern for propulsion,
and also actuated a pair of auxiliary propellers at the front which could be varied in their
direction so as to control the right and left movements of the airship. This device was patented
and the patent was taken over by the British Government, which by 1908 found Mr Willow's work
of sufficient interest to regard it as furnishing data for experiment at the balloon factory
at Farnborough. In 1909, Willows steered one of his dirigibles to London from Cardiff in a
little less than ten hours, making an average speed of over 14 miles an hour. The best speed
accomplished was probably considerably greater than this, for at intervals of a few miles,
Willows descended near the earth to ascertain his whereabouts with the help of a megaphone.
It must be added that he carried a compass in addition to his megaphone. He set out for Paris
in November of 1910, reached the French coast, and landed near Douai. Some damage was sustained
in this landing, but, after repair, the trip to Paris was completed.

Meanwhile the Government balloon factory at Farnborough began airship construction in 1907;
Colonel Capper, R.E., and S. F. Cody were jointly concerned in the production of a semi-rigid.
Fifteen thicknesses of goldbeaters' skin--about the most expensive covering obtainable--were
used for the envelope, which was 25 feet in diameter. A slight shower of rain in which the
airship was caught led to its wreckage, owing to the absorbent quality of the goldbeaters'
skin, whereupon Capper and Cody set to work to reproduce the airship and its defects on a larger
scale. The first had been named 'Nulli Secundus' and the second was named 'Nulli Secundus II.'
Punch very appropriately suggested that the first vessel ought to have been named 'Nulli Primus,'
while a possible third should be christened 'Nulli Tertius.' 'Nulli Secundus II.' was fitted
with a 100 horse-power engine and had an envelope of 42 feet in diameter, the goldbeaters'
skin being covered in fabric and the car being suspended by four bands which encircled the
balloon envelope. In October of 1907, 'Nulli Secundus II.' made a trial flight from Farnborough
to London and was anchored at the Crystal Palace. The wind sprung up and took the vessel away
from its mooring ropes, wrecking it after the one flight.

Stagnation followed until early in 1909, when a small airship fitted with two 12 horse-power
motors and named the 'Baby' was turned out from the balloon factory. This was almost egg-shaped,
the blunt end being forward, and three inflated fins being placed at the tail as control members.
A long car with rudder and elevator at its rear-end carried the engines and crew; the 'Baby'
made some fairly successful flights and gave a good deal of useful data for the construction
of later vessels.

Next to this was 'Army Airship 2A 'launched early in 1910 and larger, longer, and narrower
in design than the Baby. The engine was an 80 horse-power Green motor which drove two pairs
of propellers; small inflated control members were fitted at the stern end of the envelope,
which was 154 feet in length. The suspended car was 84 feet long, carrying both engines and
crew, and the Willows idea of swivelling propellers for governing the direction was used in
this vessel. In June of that year a new, small-type dirigible, the 'Beta,' was produced, driven
by a 30 horse-power Green engine with which she flew over 3,000 miles. She was the most successful
British dirigible constructed up to that time, and her successor, the 'Gamma,' was built on
similar lines. The 'Gamma' was a larger vessel, however, produced in 1912, with flat, controlling
fins and rudder at the rear end of the envelope, and with the conventional long car suspended
at some distance beneath the gas bag. By this time, the mooring mast, carrying a cap of which
the concave side fitted over the convex nose of the airship, had been originated. The cap was
swivelled, and, when attached to it, an airship was held nose on to the wind, thus reducing
by more than half the dangers attendant on mooring dirigibles in the open.

Private subscription under the auspices of the Morning Post got together sufficient funds in
1910 for the purchase of a Lebaudy airship, which was built in France, flown across the Channel,
and presented to the Army Airship Fleet. This dirigible was 337 feet long, and was driven by
two 135 horse-power Panhard motors, each of which actuated two propellers. The journey from
Moisson to Aldershot was completed at a speed of 36 miles an hour, but the airship was damaged
while being towed into its shed. On May of the following year, the Lebaudy was brought out
for a flight, but, in landing, the guide rope fouled in trees and sheds and brought the airship
broadside on to the wind; she was driven into some trees and wrecked to such an exteent that
rebuilding was considered an impossibility. A Clement Bayard, bought by the army airship section,
became scrap after even less flying than had been accomplished by the Lebaudy.

In April of 1910, the Admiralty determined on a naval air service, and set about the production
of rigid airships which should be able to compete with Zeppelins as naval scouts. The construction
was entrusted to Vickers, Ltd., who set about the task at their Barrow works and built something
which, when tested after a year's work, was found incapable of lifting its own weight. This
defect was remedied by a series of alterations, and meanwhile the unofficial title of 'Mayfly'
was given to the vessel.

Taken over by the Admiralty before she had passed any flying tests, the 'Mayfly' was brought
out on September 24th, 1911, for a trial trip, being towed out from her shed by a tug. When
half out from the shed, the envelope was caught by a light cross-wind, and, in spite of the
pull from the tug, the great fabric broke in half, nearly drowning the crew, who had to dive
in order to get clear of the wreckage.

There was considerable similarity in form, though not in performance, between the Mayfly and
the prewar Zeppelin. The former was 510 feet in length, cylindrical in form, with a diameter
of 48 feet, and divided into 19 gas-bag compartments. The motive power consisted of two 200
horse-power Wolseley engines. After its failure, the Naval Air Service bought an Astra-Torres
airship from France and a Parseval from Germany, both of which proved very useful in the early
days of the War, doing patrol work over the Channel before the Blimps came into being.

Early in 1915 the 'Blimp' or 'S.S.' type of coastal airship was evolved in response to the
demand for a vessel which could be turned out quickly and in quantities. There was urgent demand,
voiced by Lord Fisher, for a type of vessel capable of maintaining anti-submarine patrol off
the British coasts, and the first S.S. airships were made by combining a gasbag with the most
available type of aeroplane fuselage and engine, and fitting steering gear. The 'Blimp' consisted
of a B.E. fuselage with engine and geared-down propeller, and seating for pilot and observer,
attached to an envelope about 150 feet in length. With a speed of between 35 and 40 miles an
hour, the 'Blimp' had a cruising capacity of about ten hours; it was fitted with wireless set,
camera, machine-gun, and bombs, and for submarine spotting and patrol work generally it proved
invaluable, though owing to low engine power and comparatively small size, its uses were restricted
to reasonably fair weather. For work farther out at sea and in all weathers, airships known
as the coast patrol type, and more commonly as 'coastals,' were built, and later the 'N.S.'
or North Sea type, still larger and more weather-worthy, followed. By the time the last year
of the War came, Britain led the world in the design of non-rigid and semi-rigid dirigibles.
The 'S.S.' or 'Blimp' had been improved to a speed of 50 miles an hour, carrying a crew of
three, and the endurance record for the type was 18 1/2 hours, while one of them had reached
a height of 10,000 feet. The North Sea type of non-rigid was capable of travelling over 20
hours at full speed, or forty hours at cruising speed, and the number of non-rigids belonging
to the British Navy exceeded that of any other country.

It was owing to the incapacity--apparent or real--of the British military or naval designers
to produce a satisfactory rigid airship that the 'N.S.' airship was evolved. The first of this
type was produced in 1916, and on her trials she was voted an unqualified success, in consequence
of which the building of several more was pushed on. The envelope, of 360,000 cubic feet capacity,
was made on the Astra-Torres principle of three lobes, giving a trefoil section. The ship carried
four fins, to three of which the elevator and rudder flaps were attached; petrol tanks were
placed inside the envelope, under which was rigged a long covered-in car, built up of a light
steel tubular framework 35 feet in length. The forward portion was covered with duralumin sheeting,
an aluminium alloy which, unlike aluminium itself, is not affected by the action of sea air
and water, and the remainder with fabric laced to the framework. Windows and port-holes were
provided to give light to the crew, and the controls and navigating instruments were placed
forward, with the sleeping accommodation aft. The engines were mounted in a power unit structure,
separate from the car and connected by wooden gang ways supported by wire cables. A complete
electrical installation of two dynamos and batteries for lights, signalling lamps, wireless,
telephones, etc., was carried, and the motive power consisted of either two 250 horse-power
Rolls-Royce engines or two 240 horse-power Fiat engines. The principal dimensions of this type
are length 262 feet, horizontal diameter 56 feet 9 inches, vertical diameter 69 feet 3 inches.
The gross lift is 24,300 lbs. and the disposable lift without crew, petrol, oil, and ballast
8,500 lbs. The normal crew carried for patrol work was ten officers and men. This type holds
the record of 101 hours continuous flight on patrol duty.

In the matter of rigid design it was not until 1913 that the British Admiralty got over the
fact that the 'Mayfly' would not, and decided on a further attempt at the construction of a
rigid dirigible. The contract for this was signed in March of 1914; work was suspended in the
following February and begun again in July, 1915, but it was not until January of 1917 that
the ship was finished, while her trials were not completed until March of 1917, when she was
taken over by the Admiralty. The details of the construction and trial of this vessel, known
as 'No. 9,' go to show that she did not quite fill the contract requirements in respect of
disposable lift until a number of alterations had been made. The contract specified that a
speed of at least 45 miles per hour was to be attained at full engine power, while a minimum
disposable lift of 5 tons was to be available for movable weights, and the airship was to be
capable of rising to a height of 2,000 feet. With this the vessel reached the contract speed
of 45 miles per hour with a cruising radius of 18 hours, equivalent to 800 miles when the engines
were running at full speed. The vessel served admirably as a training airship, for, by the
time she was completed, the No. 23 class of rigid airship had come to being, and thus No. 9
was already out of date. Four-bladed propellers were used throughout the ship.

A 23X type followed on the 23 class, but by the time two ships had been completed, this was
practically obsolete. The No. 31 class followed the 23X; it was built on Schutte-Lanz lines,
615 feet in length, 66 feet diameter, and a million and a half cubic feet capacity. The hull
was similar to the later types of Zeppelin in shape, with a tapering stern and a bluff, rounded
bow. But the experiment of constructing in wood in the Schutte-Lanz way adopted with this vessel
resulted in failure eventually, and the type was abandoned.

Meanwhile, Germany had been pushing forward Zeppelin design and straining every nerve in the
improvement of rigid dirigible construction, until L.33 was evolved; she was generally known
as a super-Zeppelin, and on September 24th, 1916, six weeks after her launching, she was damaged
by gun-fire in a raid over London, being eventually compelled to come to earth at Little Wigborough
in Essex. The crew gave themselves up after having set fire to the ship, and though the fabric
was totally destroyed, the structure of the hull remained intact, so that just as Germany was
able to evolve the Gotha bomber from the Handley-Page delivered at Lille, British naval constructors
were able to evolve the R.33 type of airship from the Zeppelin framework delivered at Little
Wigborough. Two vessels, R.33 and R.34, were laid down for completion; three others were also
put down for construction, but, while R.33 and R.34 were built almost entirely from the data
gathered from the wrecked L.33, the three later vessels embody more modern design, including
a number of improvements, and more especially greater disposable lift. It has been commented
that while the British authorities were building R.33 and R.34, Germany constructed 30 Zeppelins
on 4 slips, for which reason it may be reckoned a matter for congratulation that the rigid
airship did not decide the fate of the War. She made a 21-hour cruise over the North of England
and the South of Scotland at the end of May, 1919, and subsequently went for a longer cruise
over Denmark, the Baltic, and the north coast of Germany, remaining in the air for 56 hours
in spite of very bad weather conditions. Finally, July 2nd was selected as the starting date
for the cross Atlantic flight; the vessel was commanded by Major G. H. Scott, A.F.C., with
Captain G. S. Greenland as first officer, Second-Lieut. H. F. Luck as second officer, and Lieut.
J. D. Shotter as engineer officer. There were also on board Brig.-Gen. E. P. Maitland, representing
the Air Ministry, Major J. E. M. Pritchard, representing the Admiralty, and Lieut.-Col. W.
H. Hemsley of the Army Aviation Department. In addition to eight tons of petrol, R.34 carried
a total number of 30 persons from East Fortune to Long Island, N.Y.

There being no shed in America capable of accommodating the airship, she had to be moored in
the open for refilling with fuel and gas, and to make the return journey almost immediately.

Brig.-Gen. Maitland's account of the flight, in itself a record as interesting as valuable,
divides the outward journey into two main stages, the first from East Fortune to Trinity Bay,
Newfoundland, a distance of 2,050 sea miles, and the second and more difficult stage to Mineola
Field, Long Island, 1,080 sea miles. An easy journey was experienced until Newfoundland was
reached, but then storms and electrical disturbances rendered it necessary to alter the course,
in consequence of which petrol began to run short. Head winds rendered the shortage still more
acute, and on Saturday, July 5th, a wireless signal was sent out asking for destroyers to stand
by to tow. However, after an anxious night, R.33 landed safely at Mineola Field at 9.55 a.m.
on July 6th, having accomplished the journey in 108 hours 12 minutes.

She remained at Mineola until midnight of July 9th, when, although it had been intended that
a start should be made by daylight for the benefit of New York spectators, an approaching storm
caused preparations to be advanced for immediate departure. She set out at 5.57 a.m. by British
summer time, and flew over New York in the full glare of hundreds of searchlights before heading
out over the Atlantic. A following wind assisted the return voyage, and on July 13th, at 7.57
a.m., R.34 anchored at Pulham, Norfolk, having made the return journey in 75 hours 3 minutes,
and proved the suitability of the dirigible for Transatlantic commercial work. R.80, launched
on July 19th, 1920, afforded further proof, if this were needed.

It is to be noted that nearly all the disasters to airships have been caused by launching and
landing--the type is safe enough in the air, under its own power, but its bulk renders it unwieldy
for ground handling. The German system of handling Zeppelins in and out of their sheds is,
so far, the best devised: this consists of heavy trucks running on rails through the sheds
and out at either end; on descending, the trucks are run out, and the airship is securely attached
to them outside the shed; the trucks are then run back into the shed, taking the airship with
them, and preventing any possibility of the wind driving the envelope against the side of the
shed before it is safely housed; the reverse process is adopted in launching, which is thus
rendered as simple as it is safe.

VI. THE AIRSHIP COMMERCIALLY

Prior to the war period, between the years 1910 and 1914, a German undertaking called the Deutsche
Luftfahrt Actien Gesellschaft conducted a commercial Zeppelin service in which four airships
known as the Sachsan, Hansa, Victoria Louise, and Schwaben were used. During the four years
of its work, the company carried over 17,000 passengers, and over 100,000 miles were flown
without incurring one fatality and with only minor and unavoidable accidents to the vessels
composing the service. Although a number of English notabilities made voyages in these airships,
the success of this only experiment in commercial aerostation seems to have been forgotten
since the war. There was beyond doubt a military aim in this apparently peaceful use of Zeppelin
airships; it is past question now that all Germany's mechanical development in respect of land
sea, and air transport in the years immediately preceding the war, was accomplished with the
ulterior aim of military conquest, but, at the same time, the running of this service afforded
proof of the possibility of establishing a dirigible service for peaceful ends, and afforded
proof too, of the value of the dirigible as a vessel of purely commercial utility.

In considering the possibility of a commercial dirigible service, it is necessary always to
bear in mind the disadvantages of first cost and upkeep as compared with the aeroplane. The
building of a modern rigid is an exceedingly costly undertaking, and the provision of an efficient
supply of hydrogen gas to keep its compartments filled is a very large item in upkeep of which
the heavier-than-air machine goes free. Yet the future of commercial aeronautics so far would
seem to lie with the dirigible where very long voyages are in question. No matter how the aeroplane
may be improved, the possibility of engine failure always remains as a danger for work over
water. In seaplane or flying boat form, the danger is still present in a rough sea, though
in the American Transatlantic flight, N.C.3, taxi-ing 300 miles to the Azores after having
fallen to the water, proved that this danger is not so acute as is generally assumed. Yet the
multiple-engined rigid, as R.34 showed on her return voyage, may have part of her power plant
put out of action altogether and still complete her voyage very successfully, which, in the
case of mail carrying and services run strictly to time, gives her an enormous advantage over
the heavier-than-air machine. The capacity of the gas bags is about two and three-quarter million
cubic feet, and, travelling at the rate of 45 miles per hour, the cruising range of the vessel
is estimated at 8.8 days. Six engines, each of 350 horse-power, admit of an extreme speed of
70 miles per hour if necessary.

The last word in German design is exemplified in the rigids L.70 and L.71, together with the
commercial airship 'Bodensee.' Previous to the construction of these, the L.65 type is noteworthy
as being the first Zeppelin in which direct drive of the propeller was introduced, together
with an improved and lighter type of car. L.70 built in 1918 and destroyed by the British naval
forces, had a speed of about 75 miles per hour; L.71 had a maximum speed of 72 miles per hour,
a gas bag capacity of 2,420,000 cubic feet, and a length of 743 feet, while the total lift
was 73 tons. Progress in design is best shown by the progress in useful load; in the L.70 and
L.71 class, this has been increased to 58.3 per cent, while in the Bodensee it was ever higher.

As was shown in R.34's American flight, the main problem in connection with the commercial
use of dirigibles is that of mooring in the open. The nearest to a solution of this problem,
so far, consists in the mast carrying a swivelling cap; this has been tried in the British
service with a non-rigid airship, which was attached to a mast in open country in a gale of
52 miles an hour without the slightest damage to the airship. In its commercial form, the mast
would probably take the form of a tower, at the top of which the cap would revolve so that
the airship should always face the wind, the tower being used for embarkation and disembarkation
of passengers and the provision of fuel and gas. Such a system would render sheds unnecessary
except in case of repairs, and would enormously decrease the establishment charges of any commercial
airship.

All this, however, is hypothetical. Remains the airship of to-day, developed far beyond the
promise of five years ago, capable, as has been proved by its achievements both in Britain
and in Germany, of undertaking practically any given voyage with success.

VII. KITE BALLOONS

As far back as the period of the Napoleonic wars, the balloon was given a place in warfare,
but up to the Franco-Prussian Prussian War of 1870-71 its use was intermittent. The Federal
forces made use of balloons to a small extent in the American Civil War; they came to great
prominence in the siege of Paris, carrying out upwards of three million letters and sundry
carrier pigeons which took back messages into the besieged city. Meanwhile, as captive balloons,
the German and other armies used them for observation and the direction of artillery fire.
In this work the ordinary spherical balloon was at a grave disadvantage; if a gust of wind
struck it, the balloon was blown downward and down wind, generally twirling in the air and
upsetting any calculations and estimates that might be made by the observers, while in a wind
of 25 miles an hour it could not rise at all. The rotatory movement caused by wind was stopped
by an experimenter in the Russo-Japanese war, who fixed to the captive observation balloons
a fin which acted as a rudder. This did not stop the balloon from being blown downward and
away from its mooring station, but this tendency was overcome by a modification designed in
Germany by the Parseval-Siegsfield Company, which originated what has since become familiar
as the 'Sausage' or kite balloon. This is so arranged that the forward end is tilted up into
the wind, and the underside of the gas bag, acting as a plane, gives the balloon a lifting
tendency in a wind, thus counteracting the tendency of the wind to blow it downward and away
from its mooring station. Smaller bags are fitted at the lower and rear end of the balloon
with openings that face into the wind; these are thus kept inflated, and they serve the purpose
of a rudder, keeping the kite balloon steady in the air.

Various types of kite balloon have been introduced; the original German Parseval-Siegsfield
had a single air bag at the stern end, which was modified to two, three, or more lobes in later
varieties, while an American experimental design attempted to do away with the attached lobes
altogether by stringing out a series of small air bags, kite fashion, in rear of the main envelope.
At the beginning of the War, Germany alone had kite balloons, for the authorities of the Allied
armies con-sidered that the bulk of such a vessel rendered it too conspicuous a mark to permit
of its being serviceable. The Belgian arm alone possessed two which, on being put into service,
were found extremely useful. The French followed by constructing kite balloons at Chalais Meudon,
and then, after some months of hostilities and with the example of the Royal Naval Air Service
to encourage them, the British military authorities finally took up the construction and use
of kite balloons for artillery-spotting and general observation purposes. Although many were
brought down by gun-fire, their uses far outweighed their disadvantages, and toward the end
of the War, hardly a mile of front was without its 'Sausage.'

For naval work, kite balloons were carried in a specially constructed hold in the forepart
of certain vessels; when required for use, the covering of the hold was removed, the kite balloon
inflated and released to the required height by means of winches as in the case of the land
work. The perfecting of the 'Coastal' and N.S. types of airship, together with the extension
of wireless telephony between airship and cruiser or other warship, in all probability will
render the use of the kite balloon unnecessary in connection with naval scouting. But, during
the War, neither wireless telephony nor naval airships had developed sufficiently to render
the Navy independent of any means that might come to hand, and the fitting of kite balloons
in this fashion filled a need of the times.

A necessary accessory of the kite balloon is the parachute, which has a long history. Da Vinci
and Veranzio appear to have been the first exponents, the first in the theory and the latter
in the practice of parachuting. Montgolfier experimented at Annonay before he constructed his
first hot air-balloon, and in 1783 a certain Lenormand dropped from a tree in a parachute.
Blanchard the balloonist made a spectacle of parachuting, and made it a financial success;
Cocking, in 1836, attempted to use an inverted form of parachute; taken up to a height of 3,000
feet, he was cut adrift, when the framework of the parachute collapsed and Cocking was killed.

The rate of fall is slow in parachuting to the ground. Frau Poitevin, making a descent from
a height of 6,000 feet, took 45 minutes to reach the ground, and, when she alighted, her husband,
who had taken her up, had nearly got his balloon packed up. Robertson, another parachutist
is said to have descended from a height of 10,000 feet in 35 minutes, or at a rate of nearly
5 feet per second. During the War Brigadier-General Maitland made a parachute descent from
a height of 10,000 feet, the time taken being about 20 minutes.

The parachute was developed considerably during the War period, the main requirement, that
of certainty in opening, being considerably developed. Considered a necessary accessory for
kite balloons, the parachute was also partially adopted for use with aeroplanes in the later
War period, when it was contended that if a machine were shot down in flames, its occupants
would be given a far better chance of escape if they had parachutes. Various trials were made
to demonstrate the extreme efficiency of the parachute in modern form, one of them being a
descent from the upper ways of the Tower Bridge to the waters of the Thames, in which short
distance the 'Guardian Angel' type of parachute opened and cushioned the descent for its user.

For dirigibles, balloons, and kite balloons the parachute is an essential. It would seem to
be equally essential in the case of heavier-than-air machines, but this point is still debated.
Certainly it affords the occupant of a falling aeroplane a chance, no matter how slender, of
reaching the ground in safety, and, for that reason, it would seem to have a place in aviation
as well as in aerostation.

PART IV. ENGINE DEVELOPMENT

I. THE VERTICAL TYPE

The balloon was but a year old when the brothers Robert, in 1784 attempted propulsion of an
aerial vehicle by hand-power, and succeeded, to a certain extent, since they were able to make
progress when there was only a slight wind to counteract their work. But, as may be easily
understood, the manual power provided gave but a very slow speed, and in any wind it all the
would-be airship became an uncontrolled balloon.

Henson and Stringfellow, with their light steam engines, were first to attempt conquest of
the problem of mechanical propulsion in the air; their work in this direction is so fully linked
up with their constructed models that it has been outlined in the section dealing with the
development of the aeroplane. But, very shortly after these two began, there came into the
field a Monsieur Henri Giffard, who first achieved success in the propulsion by mechanical
means of dirigible balloons, for his was the first airship to fly against the wind. He employed
a small steam-engine developing about 3 horse-power and weighing 350 lbs. with boiler, fitting
the whole in a car suspended from the gas-bag of his dirigible. The propeller which this engine
worked was 11 feet in diameter, and the inventor, who made several flights, obtained a speed
of 6 miles an hour against a slight wind. The power was not sufficient to render the invention
practicable, as the dirigible could only be used in calm weather, but Giffard was sufficiently
encouraged by his results to get out plans for immense dirigibles, which through lack of funds
he was unable to construct. When, later, his invention of the steam-injector gave him the means
he desired, he became blind, and in 1882 died, having built but the one famous dirigible.

This appears to have been the only instance of a steam engine being fitted to a dirigible;
the inherent disadvantage of this form of motive power is that a boiler to generate the steam
must be carried, and this, together with the weight of water and fuel, renders the steam engine
uneconomical in relation to the lift either of plane or gas-bag. Again, even if the weight
could be brought down to a reasonable amount, the attention required by steam plant renders
it undesirable as a motive power for aircraft when compared with the internal combustion engine.

Maxim, in Artificial and Natural Flight, details the engine which he constructed for use with
his giant experimental flying machine, and his description is worthy of reproduction since
it is that of the only steam engine besides Giffard's, and apart from those used for the propulsion
of models, designed for driving an aeroplane. 'In 1889,' Maxim says, 'I had my attention drawn
to some very thin, strong, and comparatively cheap tubes which were being made in France, and
it was only after I had seen these tubes that I seriously considered the question of making
a flying machine. I obtained a large quantity of them and found that they were very light,
that they would stand enormously high pressures, and generate a very large quantity of steam.
Upon going into a mathematical calculation of the whole subject, I found that it would be possible
to make a machine on the aeroplane system, driven by a steam engine, which would be sufficiently
strong to lift itself into the air. I first made drawings of a steam engine, and a pair of
these engines was afterwards made. These engines are constructed, for the most part, of a very
high grade of cast steel, the cylinders being only 3/32 of an inch thick, the crank shafts
hollow, and every part as strong and light as possible. They are compound, each having a high-pressure
piston with an area of 20 square inches, a low-pressure piston of 50.26 square inches, and
a common stroke of 1 foot. When first finished they were found to weigh 300 lbs. each; but
after putting on the oil cups, felting, painting, and making some slight alterations, the weight
was brought up to 320 lbs. each, or a total of 640 lbs. for the two engines, which have since
developed 362 horsepower with a steam pressure of 320 lbs. per square inch.'

The result is remarkable, being less than 2 lbs. weight per horse-power, especially when one
considers the state of development to which the steam engine had attained at the time these
experiments were made. The fining down of the internal combustion engine, which has done so
much to solve the problems of power in relation to weight for use with aircraft, had not then
been begun, and Maxim had nothing to guide him, so far as work on the part of his predecessors
was concerned, save the experimental engines of Stringfellow, which, being constructed on so
small a scale in comparison with his own, afforded little guidance. Concerning the factor of
power, he says: 'When first designing this engine, I did not know how much power I might require
from it. I thought that in some cases it might be necessary to allow the high-pressure steam
to enter the low-pressure cylinder direct, but as this would involve a considerable loss, I
constructed a species of injector. This injector may be so adjusted that when the steam in
the boiler rises above a certain predetermined point, say 300 lbs., to the square inch, it
opens a valve and escapes past the high-pressure cylinder instead of blowing off at the safety
valve. In escaping through this valve, a fall of about 200 lbs. pressure per square inch is
made to do work on the surrounding steam and drive it forward in the pipe, producing a pressure
on the low-pressure piston considerably higher than the back-pressure on the high-pressure
piston. In this way a portion of the work which would otherwise be lost is utilised, and it
is possible, with an unlimited supply of steam, to cause the engines to develop an enormous
amount of power.'

With regard to boilers, Maxim writes,

'The first boiler which I made was constructed something on the Herreshof principle, but instead
of having one simple pipe in one very long coil, I used a series of very small and light pipes,
connected in such a manner that there was a rapid circulation through the whole--the tubes
increasing in size and number as the steam was generated. I intended that there should be a
pressure of about 100 lbs. more on the feed water end of the series than on the steam end,
and I believed that this difference in pressure would be sufficient to ensure direct and positive
circulation through every tube in the series. The first boiler was exceedingly light, but the
workmanship, as far as putting the tubes together was concerned, was very bad, and it was found
impossible to so adjust the supply of water as to make dry steam without overheating and destroying
the tubes.

'Before making another boiler I obtained a quantity of copper tubes, about 8 feet long, 3/8
inch external diameter, and 1/50 of an inch thick. I subjected about 100 of these tubes to
an internal pressure of 1 ton per square inch of cold kerosene oil, and as none of them leaked
I did not test any more, but commenced my experiments by placing some of them in a white-hot
petroleum fire. I found that I could evaporate as much as 26 1/2 lbs. of water per square foot
of heating surface per hour, and that with a forced circulation, although the quantity of water
passing was very small but positive, there was no danger of overheating. I conducted many experiments
with a pressure of over 400 lbs. per square inch, but none of the tubes failed. I then mounted
a single tube in a white-hot furnace, also with a water circulation, and found that it only
burst under steam at a pressure of 1,650 lbs. per square inch. A large boiler, having about
800 square feet of heating surface, including the feed-water heater, was then constructed.
This boiler is about 4 1/2 feet wide at the bottom, 8 feet long and 6 feet high. It weighs,
with the casing, the dome, and the smoke stack and connections, a little less than 1,000 lbs.
The water first passes through a system of small tubes--1/4 inch in diameter and 1/60 inch
thick--which were placed at the top of the boiler and immediately over the large tubes....
This feed-water heater is found to be very effective. It utilises the heat of the products
of combustion after they have passed through the boiler proper and greatly reduces their temperature,
while the feed-water enters the boiler at a temperature of about 250 F. A forced circulation
is maintained in the boiler, the feed-water entering through a spring valve, the spring valve
being adjusted in such a manner that the pressure on the water is always 30 lbs. per square
inch in excess of the boiler pressure. This fall of 30 lbs. in pressure acts upon the surrounding
hot water which has already passed through the tubes, and drives it down through a vertical
outside tube, thus ensuring a positive and rapid circulation through all the tubes. This apparatus
is found to act extremely well.'

Thus Maxim, who with this engine as power for his large aeroplane achieved free flight once,
as a matter of experiment, though for what distance or time the machine was actually off the
ground is matter for debate, since it only got free by tearing up the rails which were to have
held it down in the experiment. Here, however, was a steam engine which was practicable for
use in the air, obviously, and only the rapid success of the internal combustion engine prevented
the steam-producing type from being developed toward perfection.

The first designers of internal combustion engines, knowing nothing of the petrol of these
days, constructed their examples with a view to using gas as fuel. As far back as 1872 Herr
Paul Haenlein obtained a speed of about 10 miles an hour with a balloon propelled by an internal
combustion engine, of which the fuel was gas obtained from the balloon itself. The engine in
this case was of the Lenoir type, developing some 6 horse-power, and, obviously, Haenlein's
flights were purely experimental and of short duration, since he used the gas that sustained
him and decreased the lifting power of his balloon with every stroke of the piston of his engine.
No further progress appears to have been made with the gas-consuming type of internal combustion
engine for work with aircraft; this type has the disadvantage of requiring either a gas-producer
or a large storage capacity for the gas, either of which makes the total weight of the power
plant much greater than that of a petrol engine. The latter type also requires less attention
when working, and the fuel is more convenient both for carrying and in the matter of carburation.

The first airship propelled by the present-day type of internal combustion engine was constructed
by Baumgarten and Wolfert in 1879 at Leipzig, the engine being made by Daimler with a view
to working on benzine--petrol as a fuel had not then come to its own. The construction of this
engine is interesting since it was one of the first of Daimler's make, and it was the development
brought about by the experimental series of which this engine was one that led to the success
of the motor-car in very few years, incidentally leading to that fining down of the internal
combustion engine which has facilitated the development of the aeroplane with such remarkable
rapidity. Owing to the faulty construction of the airship no useful information was obtained
from Daimler's pioneer installation, as the vessel got out of control immediately after it
was first launched for flight, and was wrecked. Subsequent attempts at mechanically-propelled
flight by Wolfert ended, in 1897, in the balloon being set on fire by an explosion of benzine
vapour, resulting in the death of both the aeronauts.

Daimler, from 1882 onward, devoted his attention to the perfecting of the small, high-speed
petrol engine for motor-car work, and owing to his efforts, together with those of other pioneer
engine-builders, the motorcar was made a success. In a few years the weight of this type of
engine was reduced from near on a hundred pounds per horse-power to less than a tenth of that
weight, but considerable further improvement had to be made before an engine suitable for use
with aircraft was evolved.

The increase in power of the engines fitted to airships has made steady progress from the outset;
Haenlein's engine developed about 6 horse-power; the Santos-Dumont airship of 1898 was propelled
by a motor of 4 horse-power; in 1902 the Lebaudy airship was fitted with an engine of 40 horse-power,
while, in 1910, the Lebaudy brothers fitted an engine of nearly 300 horsepower to the airship
they were then constructing--1,400 horse-power was common in the airships of the War period,
and the later British rigids developed yet more.

Before passing on to consideration of the petrol-driven type of engine, it is necessary to
accord brief mention to the dirigible constructed in 1884 by Gaston and Albert Tissandier,
who at Grenelle, France, achieved a directed flight in a wind of 8 miles an hour, obtaining
their power for the propeller from 1 1/3 horse-power Siemens electric motor, which weighed
121 lbs. and took its current from a bichromate battery weighing 496 lbs. A two-bladed propeller,
9 feet in diameter, was used, and the horse-power output was estimated to have run up to 1
1/2 as the dirigible successfully described a semicircle in a wind of 8 miles an hour, subsequently
making headway transversely to a wind of 7 miles an hour. The dirigible with which this motor
was used was of the conventional pointed-end type, with a length of 92 feet, diameter of 30
feet, and capacity of 37,440 cubic feet of gas. Commandant Renard, of the French army balloon
corps, followed up Tissandier's attempt in the next year--1885--making a trip from Chalais-Meudon
to Paris and returning to the point of departure quite successfully. In this case the motive
power was derived from an electric plant of the type used by the Tissandiers, weighing altogether
1,174 lbs., and developing 9 horsepower. A speed of 14 miles an hour was attained with this
dirigible, which had a length of 165 feet, diameter of 27 feet, and capacity of 65,836 cubic
feet of gas.

Reverting to the petrol-fed type again, it is to be noted that Santos-Dumont was practically
the first to develop the use of the ordinary automobile engine for air work--his work is of
such importance that it has been considered best to treat of it as one whole, and details of
the power plants are included in the account of his experiments. Coming to the Lebaudy brothers
and their work, their engine of 1902 was a 40 horse-power Daimler, four-cylindered; it was
virtually a large edition of the Daimler car engine, the arrangement of the various details
being on the lines usually adopted for the standard Daimler type of that period. The cylinders
were fully water-jacketed, and no special attempt toward securing lightness for air work appears
to have been made.

The fining down of detail that brought weight to such limits as would fit the engine for work
with heavier-than-air craft appears to have waited for the brothers Wright. Toward the end
of 1903 they fitted to their first practicable flying machine the engine which made the historic
first aeroplane flight; this engine developed 30 horse-power, and weighed only about 7 lbs.
per horse-power developed, its design and workmanship being far ahead of any previous design
in this respect, with the exception of the remarkable engine, designed by Manly, installed
in Langley's ill-fated aeroplane--or 'aerodrome,' as he preferred to call it--tried in 1903.

The light weight of the Wright brothers' engine did not necessitate a high number of revolutions
per minute to get the requisite power; the speed was only 1,300 revolutions per minute, which,
with a piston stroke of 3.94 inches, was quite moderate. Four cylinders were used, the cylinder
diameter being 4.42 inches; the engine was of the vertical type, arranged to drive two propellers
at a rate of about 350 revolutions per minute, gearing being accomplished by means of chain
drive from crank-shaft end to propeller spindle.

The methods adopted by the Wrights for obtaining a light-weight engine were of considerable
interest, in view of the fact that the honour of first achieving flight by means of the driven
plane belongs to them--unless Ader actually flew as he claimed. The cylinders of this first
Wright engine were separate castings of steel, and only the barrels were jacketed, this being
done by fixing loose, thin aluminium covers round the outside of each cylinder. The combustion
head and valve pockets were cast together with the cylinder barrel, and were not water cooled.
The inlet valves were of the automatic type, arranged on the tops of the cylinders, while the
exhaust valves were also overhead, operated by rockers and push-rods. The pistons and piston
rings were of the ordinary type, made of cast-iron, and the connecting rods were circular in
form, with a hole drilled down the middle of each to reduce the weight.

Necessity for increasing power and ever lighter weight in relation to the power produced has
led to the evolution of a number of different designs of internal combustion engines. It was
quickly realised that increasing the number of cylinders on an engine was a better way of getting
more power than that of increasing the cylinder diameter, as the greater number of cylinders
gives better torque-even turning effect--as well as keeping down the weight--this latter because
the bigger cylinders must be more stoutly constructed than the small sizes; this fact has led
to the construction of engines having as many as eighteen cylinders, arranged in three parallel
rows in order to keep the length of crankshaft within reasonable limits. The aero engine of
to-day may, roughly, be divided into four classes: these are the V type, in which two rows
of cylinders are set parallel at a certain angle to each other; the radial type, which consists
of cylinders arranged radially and remaining stationary while the crankshaft revolves; the
rotary, where the cylinders are disposed round a common centre and revolve round a stationary
shaft, and the vertical type, of four or six cylinders--seldom more than this--arranged in
one row. A modification of the V type is the eighteen-cylindered engine--the Sunbeam is one
of the best examples--in which three rows of cylinders are set parallel to each other, working
on a common crankshaft. The development these four types started with that of the vertical--the
simplest of all; the V, radial, and rotary types came after the vertical, in the order given.

The evolution of the motor-car led to the adoption of the vertical type of internal combustion
engine in preference to any other, and it followed naturally that vertical engines should be
first used for aeroplane propulsion, as by taking an engine that had been developed to some
extent, and adapting it to its new work, the problem of mechanical flight was rendered easier
than if a totally new type had had to be evolved. It was quickly realised--by the Wrights,
in fact-that the minimum of weight per horse-power was the prime requirement for the successful
development of heavier-than-air machines, and at the same time it was equally apparent that
the utmost reliability had to be obtained from the engine, while a third requisite was economy,
in order to reduce the weight of petrol necessary for flight.

Daimler, working steadily toward the improvement of the internal combustion engine, had made
considerable progress by the end of last century. His two-cylinder engine of 1897 was approaching
to the present-day type, except as regards the method of ignition; the cylinders had 3.55 inch
diameter, with a 4.75 inch piston stroke, and the engine was rated at 4.5 brake horse-power,
though it probably developed more than this in actual running at its rated speed of 800 revolutions
per minute. Power was limited by the inlet and exhaust passages, which, compared with present-day
practice, were very small. The heavy castings of which the engine was made up are accounted
for by the necessity for considering foundry practice of the time, for in 1897 castings were
far below the present-day standard. The crank-case of this two-cylinder vertical Daimler engine
was the only part made of aluminium, and even with this no attempt was made to attain lightness,
for a circular flange was cast at the bottom to form a stand for the engine during machining
and erection. The general design can be followed from the sectional views, and these will show,
too, that ignition was by means of a hot tube on the cylinder head, which had to be heated
with a blow-lamp before starting the engine. With all its well known and hated troubles, at
that time tube ignition had an advantage over the magneto, and the coil and accumulator system,
in reliability; sparking plugs, too, were not so reliable then as they are now. Daimler fitted
a very simple type of carburettor to this engine, consisting only of a float with a single
jet placed in the air passage. It may be said that this twin-cylindered vertical was the first
of the series from which has been evolved the Mercedes-Daimler car and airship engines, built
in sizes up to and even beyond 240 horse-power.

In 1901 the development of the petrol engine was still so slight that it did not admit of the
construction, by any European maker, of an engine weighing less than 12 lbs. per horse-power.
Manly, working at the instance of Professor Langley, produced a five-cylindered radial type
engine, in which both the design and workmanship showed a remarkable advance in construction.
At 950 revolutions per minute it developed 52.4 horse-power, weighing only 2.4 pounds per horse-power;
it was a very remarkable achievement in engine design, considering the power developed in relation
to the total weight, and it was, too, an interruption in the development of the vertical type
which showed that there were other equally great possibilities in design.

In England, the first vertical aero-engine of note was that designed by Green, the cylinder
dimensions being 4.15 inch diameter by 4.75 stroke--a fairly complete idea of this engine can
be obtained from the accompanying diagrams. At a speed of 1,160 revolutions per minute it developed
35 brake horse-power, and by accelerating up to 1,220 revolutions per minute a maximum of 40
brake horse-power could be obtained--the first-mentioned was the rated working speed of the
engine for continuous runs. A flywheel, weighing 23.5 lbs., was fitted to the engine, and this,
together with the ignition system, brought the weight up to 188 lbs., giving 5.4 lbs. per horse-power.
In comparison with the engine fitted to the Wrights' aeroplane a greater power was obtained
from approximately the same cylinder volume, and an appreciable saving in weight had also been
effected. The illustration shows the arrangement of the vertical valves at the top of the cylinder
and the overhead cam shaft, while the position of the carburettor and inlet pipes can be also
seen. The water jackets were formed by thin copper casings, each cylinder being separate and
having its independent jacket rigidly fastened to the cylinder at the top only, thus allowing
for free expansion of the casing; the joint at the bottom end was formed by sliding the jacket
over a rubber ring. Each cylinder was bolted to the crank-case and set out of line with the
crankshaft, so that the crank has passed over the upper dead centre by the time that the piston
is at the top of its stroke when receiving the full force of fuel explosion. The advantage
of this desaxe setting is that the pressure in the cylinder acts on the crank-pin with a more
effective leverage during that part of the stroke when that pressure is highest, and in addition
the side pressure of the piston on the cylinder wall, due to the thrust of the connecting rod,
is reduced. Possibly the charging of the cylinder is also more complete by this arrangement,
owing to the slower movement of the piston at the bottom of its stroke allowing time for an
increased charge of mixture to enter the cylinder.

A 60 horse-power engine was also made, having four vertical cylinders, each with a diameter
of 5.5 inches and stroke of 5.75 inches, developing its rated power at 1,100 revolutions per
minute. By accelerating up to 1,200 revolutions per minute 70 brake horsepower could be obtained,
and a maximum of 80 brake horse-power was actually attained with the type. The flywheel, fitted
as with the original 35 horse-power engine, weighed 37 lbs.; with this and with the ignition
system the total weight of the engine was only 250 lbs., or 4.2 lbs. per horse-power at the
normal rating. In this design, however, low weight in relation to power was not the ruling
factor, for Green gave more attention to reliability and economy of fuel consumption, which
latter was approximately 0.6 pint of petrol per brake horse-power per hour. Both the oil for
lubricating the bearings and the water for cooling the cylinders were circulated by pumps,
and all parts of the valve gear, etc., were completely enclosed for protection from dust.

A later development of the Green engine was a six-cylindered vertical, cylinder dimensions
being 5.5 inch diameter by 6 inch stroke, developing 120 brake horsepower when running at 1,250
revolutions per minute. The total weight of the engine with ignition system 398 was 440 lbs.,
or 3.66 lbs. per horse-power. One of these engines was used on the machine which, in 1909,
won the prize of L1,000 for the first circular mile flight, and it may be noted, too, that
S. F. Cody, making the circuit of England in 1911, used a four-cylinder Green engine. Again,
it was a Green engine that in 1914 won the L5,000 prize offered for the best aero engine in
the Naval and Military aeroplane engine competition.

Manufacture of the Green engines, in the period of the War, had standardised to the production
of three types. Two of these were six-cylinder models, giving respectively 100 and 150 brake
horse-power, and the third was a twelve-cylindered model rated at 275 brake horse-power.

In 1910 J. S. Critchley compiled a list showing the types of engine then being manufactured;
twenty-two out of a total of seventy-six were of the four-cylindered vertical type, and in
addition to these there were two six-cylindered verticals. The sizes of the four-cylinder types
ranged from 26 up to 118 brake horse-power; fourteen of them developed less than 50 horse-power,
and only two developed over 100 horse-power.

It became apparent, even in the early stages of heavier-than-air flying, that four-cylinder
engines did not produce the even torque that was required for the rotation of the power shaft,
even though a flywheel was fitted to the engine. With this type of engine the breakage of air-screws
was of frequent occurrence, and an engine having a more regular rotation was sought, both for
this and to avoid the excessive vibration often experienced with the four-cylinder type. Another,
point that forced itself on engine builders was that the increased power which was becoming
necessary for the propulsion of aircraft made an increase in the number of cylinders essential,
in order to obtain a light engine. An instance of the weight reduction obtainable in using
six cylinders instead of four is shown in Critchley's list, for one of the four-cylinder engines
developed 118.5 brake horse-power and weighed 1,100 lbs., whereas a six-cylinder engine by
the same manufacturer developed 117.5 brake horse-power with a weight of 880 lbs., the respective
cylinder dimensions being 7.48 diameter by 9.06 stroke for the four-cylinder engine, and 6.1
diameter by 7.28 stroke for the six-cylinder type.

A list of aeroplane engines, prepared in 1912 by Graham Clark, showed that, out of the total
number of 112 engines then being manufactured, forty-two were of the vertical type, and of
this number twenty-four had four-cylinders while sixteen were six-cylindered. The German aeroplane
engine trials were held a year later, and sixty-six engines entered the competition, fourteen
of these being made with air-cooled cylinders. All of the ten engines that were chosen for
the final trials were of the water-cooled type, and the first place was won by a Benz four-cylinder
vertical engine which developed 102 brake horse-power at 1,288 revolutions per minute. The
cylinder dimensions of this engine were 5.1 inch diameter by 7.1 inch stroke, and the weight
of the engine worked out at 3.4 lbs. per brake horse-power. During the trials the full-load
petrol consumption was 0.53 pint per horse-power per hour, and the amount of lubricating oil
used was 0.0385 pint per brake horse-power per hour. In general construction this Benz engine
was somewhat similar to the Green engine already described; the overhead valves, fitted in
the tops of the cylinders, were similarly arranged, as was the cam-shaft; two springs were
fitted to each of the valves to guard against the possibility of the engine being put out of
action by breakage of one of the springs, and ignition was obtained by two high-tension magnetos
giving simultaneous sparks in each cylinder by means of two sparking plugs--this dual ignition
reduced the possibility of ignition troubles. The cylinder jackets were made of welded sheet
steel so fitted around the cylinder that the head was also water-cooled, and the jackets were
corrugated in the middle to admit of independent expansion. Even the lubrication system was
duplicated, two sets of pumps being used, one to circulate the main supply of lubricating oil,
and the other to give a continuous supply of fresh oil to the bearings, so that if the supply
from one pump failed the other could still maintain effective lubrication.

Development of the early Daimler type brought about the four-cylinder vertical Mercedes-Daimler
engine of 85 horse-power, with cylinders of 5.5 diameter with 5.9 inch stroke, the cylinders
being cast in two pairs. The overhead arrangement of valves was adopted, and in later designs
push-rods were eliminated, the overhead cam-shaft being adopted in their place. By 1914 the
four-cylinder Mercedes-Daimler had been partially displaced from favour by a six-cylindered
model, made in two sizes; the first of these gave a nominal brake horse-power of 80, having
cylinders of 4.1 inches diameter by 5.5 inches stroke; the second type developed 100 horse-power
with cylinders 4.7 inches in diameter and 5.5 inches stroke, both types being run at 1,200
revolutions per minute. The cylinders of both these types were cast in pairs, and, instead
of the water jackets forming part of the casting, as in the design of the original four-cylinder
Mercedes-Daimler engine, they were made of steel welded to flanges on the cylinders. Steel
pistons, fitted with cast-iron rings, were used, and the overhead arrangement of valves and
cam-shaft was adopted. About 0.55 pint per brake horse-power per hour was the usual fuel consumption
necessary to full load running, and the engine was also economical as regards the consumption
of lubricating oil, the lubricating system being 'forced' for all parts, including the cam-shaft.
The shape of these engines was very well suited for work with aircraft, being narrow enough
to admit of a streamline form being obtained, while all the accessories could be so mounted
as to produce little or no wind resistance, and very little obstruction to the pilot's view.

The eight-cylinder Mercedes-Daimler engine, used for airship propulsion during the War, developed
240 brake horse-power at 1,100 revolutions per minute; the cylinder dimensions were 6.88 diameter
by 6.5 stroke--one of the instances in which the short stroke in relation to bore was very
noticeable.

Other instances of successful vertical design-the types already detailed are fully sufficient
to give particulars of the type generally--are the Panhard, Chenu, Maybach, N.A.G., Argus,
Mulag, and the well-known Austro-Daimler, which by 1917 was being copied in every combatant
country. There are also the later Wright engines, and in America the Wisconsin six-cylinder
vertical, weighing well under 4 lbs. per horse-power, is evidence of the progress made with
this first type of aero engine to develop.

II. THE VEE TYPE

An offshoot from the vertical type, doubling the power of this with only a very slight--if
any--increase in the length of crankshaft, the Vee or diagonal type of aero engine leaped to
success through the insistent demand for greater power. Although the design came after that
of the vertical engine, by 1910, according to Critchley's list of aero engines, there were
more Vee type engines being made than any other type, twenty-five sizes being given in the
list, with an average rating of 57.4 brake horse-power.

The arrangement of the cylinders in Vee form over the crankshaft, enabling the pistons of each
pair of opposite cylinders to act upon the same crank pin, permits of a very short, compact
engine being built, and also permits of reduction of the weight per horsepower, comparing this
with that of the vertical type of engine, with one row of cylinders. Further, at the introduction
of this type of engine it was seen that crankshaft vibration, an evil of the early vertical
engines, was practically eliminated, as was the want of longitudinal stiffness that characterised
the higher-powered vertical engines.

Of the Vee type engines shown in Critchley's list in 1910 nineteen different sizes were constructed
with eight cylinders, and with horse-powers ranging from thirty to just over the hundred; the
lightest of these weighed 2.9 lbs. per horse-power--a considerable advance in design on the
average vertical engine, in this respect of weight per horse-power. There were also two sixteen-cylinder
engines of Vee design, the larger of which developed 134 horse-power with a weight of only
2 lbs. per brake horse-power. Subsequent developments have indicated that this type, with the
further development from it of the double-Vee, or engine with three rows of cylinders, is likely
to become the standard design of aero engine where high powers are required. The construction
permits of placing every part so that it is easy of access, and the form of the engine implies
very little head resistance, while it can be placed on the machine--supposing that machine
to be of the single-engine type--in such a way that the view of the pilot is very little obstructed
while in flight.

An even torque, or great uniformity of rotation, is transmitted to the air-screw by these engines,
while the design also permits of such good balance of the engine itself that vibration is practically
eliminated. The angle between the two rows of cylinders is varied according to the number of
cylinders, in order to give working impulses at equal angles of rotation and thus provide even
torque; this angle is determined by dividing the number of degrees in a circle by the number
of cylinders in either row of the engine. In an eight-cylindered Vee type engine, the angle
between the cylinders is 90 degrees; if it is a twelve-cylindered engine, the angle drops to
60 degrees.

One of the earliest of the British-built Vee type engines was an eight-cylinder 50 horse-power
by the Wolseley Company, constructed in 1908 with a cylinder bore of 3.75 inches and stroke
of 5 inches, running at a normal speed of 1,350 revolutions per minute. With this engine, a
gearing was introduced to enable the propeller to run at a lower speed than that of the engine,
the slight loss of efficiency caused by the friction of the gearing being compensated by the
slower speed of the air-screw, which had higher efficiency than would have been the case if
it had been run at the engine speed. The ratio of the gearing--that is, the speed of the air-screw
relatively to that of the engine, could be chosen so as to suit exactly the requirements of
the air-screw, and the gearing itself, on this engine, was accomplished on the half-speed shaft
actuating the valves.

Very soon after this first design had been tried out, a second Vee type engine was produced
which, at 1,200 revolutions per minute, developed 60 horse-power; the size of this engine was
practically identical with that of its forerunner, the only exception being an increase of
half an inch in the cylinder stroke--a very long stroke of piston in relation to the bore of
the cylinder. In the first of these two engines, which was designed for airship propulsion,
the weight had been about 8 lbs. per brake horse-power, no special attempt appearing to have
been made to fine down for extreme lightness; in this 60 horse-power design, the weight was
reduced to 6.1 lbs. per horse-power, counting the latter as normally rated; the engine actually
gave a maximum of 75 brake horse-power, reducing the ratio of weight to power very considerably
below the figure given.

The accompanying diagram illustrates a later Wolseley model, end elevation, the eight-cylindered
120 horse-power Vee type aero engine of the early war period. With this engine, each crank
pin has two connecting rods bearing on it, these being placed side by side and connected to
the pistons of opposite cylinders and the two cylinders of the pair are staggered by an amount
equal to the width of the connecting rod bearing, to afford accommodation for the rods. The
crankshaft was a nickel chrome steel forging, machined hollow, with four crank pins set at
180 degrees to each other, and carried in three bearings lined with anti-friction metal. The
connecting rods were made of tubular nickel chrome steel, and the pistons of drawn steel, each
being fitted with four piston rings. Of these the two rings nearest to the piston head were
of the ordinary cast-iron type, while the others were of phosphor bronze, so arranged as to
take the side thrust of the piston. The cylinders were of steel, arranged in two groups or
rows of four, the angular distance between them being 90 degrees. In the space above the crankshaft,
between the cylinder rows, was placed the valve-operating mechanism, together with the carburettor
and ignition system, thus rendering this a very compact and accessible engine. The combustion
heads of the cylinders were made of cast-iron, screwed into the steel cylinder barrels; the
water-jacket was of spun aluminium, with one end fitting over the combustion head and the other
free to slide on the cylinder; the water-joint at the lower end was made tight by a Dermatine
ring carried between small flanges formed on the cylinder barrel. Overhead valves were adopted,
and in order to make these as large as possible the combustion chamber was made slightly larger
in diameter than the cylinder, and the valves set at an angle. Dual ignition was fitted in
each cylinder, coil and accumulator being used for starting and as a reserve in case of failure
of the high-tension magneto system fitted for normal running. There was a double set of lubricating
pumps, ensuring continuity of the oil supply to all the bearings of the engine.

The feature most noteworthy in connection with the running of this type of engine was its flexibility;
the normal output of power was obtained with 1,150 revolutions per minute of the crankshaft,
but, by accelerating up to 1,400 revolutions, a maximum of 147 brake horse-power could be obtained.
The weight was about 5 lbs. per horse-power, the cylinder dimensions being 5 inches bore by
7 inches stroke. Economy in running was obtained, the fuel consumption being 0.58 pint per
brake horse-power per hour at full load, with an expenditure of about 0.075 pint of lubricating
oil per brake horse-power per hour.

Another Wolseley Vee type that was standardised was a 90 horse-power eight-cylinder engine
running at 1,800 revolutions per minute, with a reducing gear introduced by fitting the air
screw on the half-speed shaft. First made semi-cooled--the exhaust valve was left air-cooled,
and then entirely water-jacketed--this engine demonstrated the advantage of full water cooling,
for under the latter condition the same power was developed with cylinders a quarter of an
inch less in diameter than in the semi-cooled pattern; at the same time the weight was brought
down to 4 1/2 lbs. per horsepower.

A different but equally efficient type of Vee design was the Dorman engine, of which an end
elevation is shown; this developed 80 brake horse-power at a speed of 1,300 revolutions per
minute, with a cylinder bore of 5 inches; each cylinder was made in cast-iron in one piece
with the combustion chamber, the barrel only being water-jacketed. Auxiliary exhaust ports
were adopted, the holes through the cylinder wall being uncovered by the piston at the bottom
of its stroke--the piston, 4.75 inches in length, was longer than its stroke, so that these
ports were covered when it was at the top of the cylinder. The exhaust discharged through the
ports into a belt surrounding the cylinder, the belts on the cylinders being connected so that
the exhaust gases were taken through a single pipe. The air was drawn through the crank case,
before reaching the carburettor, this having the effect of cooling the oil in the crank case
as well as warming the air and thus assisting in vaporising the petrol for each charge of the
cylinders. The inlet and exhaust valves were of the overhead type, as may be gathered from
the diagram, and in spite of cast-iron cylinders being employed a light design was obtained,
the total weight with radiator, piping, and water being only 5.5 lbs. per horse-power.

Here was the antithesis of the Wolseley type in the matter of bore in relation to stroke; from
about 1907 up to the beginning of the war, and even later, there was controversy as to which
type--that in which the bore exceeded the stroke, or vice versa--gave greater efficiency. The
short-stroke enthusiasts pointed to the high piston speed of the long-stroke type, while those
who favoured the latter design contended that full power could not be obtained from each explosion
in the short-stroke type of cylinder. It is now generally conceded that the long-stroke engine
yields higher efficiency, and in addition to this, so far as car engines are concerned, the
method of rating horse-power in relation to bore without taking stroke into account has given
the long-stroke engine an advantage, actual horse-power with a long stroke engine being in
excess of the nominal rating. This may have had some influence on aero engine design, but,
however this may have been, the long-stroke engine has gradually come to favour, and its rival
has taken second place.

For some time pride of place among British Vee type engines was held by the Sunbeam Company,
which, owing to the genius of Louis Coatalen, together with the very high standard of construction
maintained by the firm, achieved records and fame in the middle and later periods of the war.
Their 225 horse-power twelve-cylinder engine ran at a normal speed of 2,000 revolutions per
minute; the air screw was driven through gearing at half this speed, its shaft being separate
from the timing gear and carried in ball-bearings on the nose-piece of the engine. The cylinders
were of cast-iron, entirely water-cooled; a thin casing formed the water-jacket, and a very
light design was obtained, the weight being only 3.2 lbs. per horse-power. The first engine
of Sunbeam design had eight cylinders and developed 150 horse-power at 2,000 revolutions per
minute; the final type of Vee design produced during the war was twelve-cylindered, and yielded
310 horse-power with cylinders 4.3 inches bore by 6.4 inches stroke. Evidence in favour of
the long-stroke engine is afforded in this type as regards economy of working; under full load,
working at 2,000 revolutions per minute, the consumption was 0.55 pints of fuel per brake horse-power
per hour, which seems to indicate that the long stroke permitted of full use being made of
the power resulting from each explosion, in spite of the high rate of speed of the piston.

Developing from the Vee type, the eighteen-cylinder 475 brake horse-power engine, designed
during the war, represented for a time the limit of power obtainable from a single plant. It
was water-cooled throughout, and the ignition to each cylinder was duplicated; this engine
proved fully efficient, and economical in fuel consumption. It was largely used for seaplane
work, where reliability was fully as necessary as high power.

The abnormal needs of the war period brought many British firms into the ranks of Vee-type
engine-builders, and, apart from those mentioned, the most notable types produced are the Rolls-Royce
and the Napier. The first mentioned of these firms, previous to 1914 had concentrated entirely
on car engines, and their very high standard of production in this department of internal combustion
engine work led, once they took up the making of aero engines, to extreme efficiency both of
design and workmanship. The first experimental aero engine, of what became known as the 'Eagle'
type, was of Vee design--it was completed in March of 1915--and was so successful that it was
standardised for quantity production. How far the original was from the perfection subsequently
ascertained is shown by the steady increase in developed horse-power of the type; originally
designed to develop 200 horse-power, it was developed and improved before its first practical
trial in October of 1915, when it developed 255 horsepower on a brake test. Research and experiment
produced still further improvements, for, without any enlargement of the dimensions, or radical
alteration in design, the power of the engine was brought up to 266 horse-power by March of
1916, the rate of revolutions of 1,800 per minute being maintained throughout. July, 1916 gave
284 horse-power; by the cud of the year this had been increased to 322 horse-power; by September
of 1917 the increase was to 350 horse-power, and by February of 1918 then 'Eagle' type of engine
was rated at 360 horse-power, at which standard it stayed. But there is no more remarkable
development in engine design than this, a 75 per cent increase of power in the same engine
in a period of less than three years.

To meet the demand for a smaller type of engine for use on training machines, the Rolls-Royce
firm produced the 'Hawk' Vee-type engine of 100 horsepower, and, intermediately between this
and the 'Eagle,' the 'Falcon' engine came to being with an original rated horse-power of 205
at 1,800 revolutions per minute, in April of 1916. Here was another case of growth of power
in the same engine through research, almost similar to that of the 'Eagle' type, for by July
of 1918 the 'Falcon' was developing 285 horse-power with no radical alteration of design. Finally,
in response to the constant demand for increase of power in a single plant, the Rolls-Royce
company designed and produced the 'Condor' type of engine, which yielded 600 horse-power on
its first test in August of 1918. The cessation of hostilities and consequent falling off in
the demand for extremely high-powered plants prevented the 'Condor' being developed to its
limit, as had been the 'Falcon' and 'Eagle' types.

The 'Eagle 'engine was fitted to the two Handley-Page aeroplanes--which made flights from England
to India--it was virtually standard on the Handley-Page bombers of the later War period, though
to a certain extent the American 'Liberty' engine was also used. Its chief record, however,
is that of being the type fitted to the Vickers-Vimy aeroplane which made the first Atlantic
flight, covering the distance of 1,880 miles at a speed averaging 117 miles an hour.

The Napier Company specialised on one type of engine from the outset, a power plant which became
known as the 'Lion' engine, giving 450 horse-power with twelve cylinders arranged in three
rows of four each. Considering the engine as 'dry,' or without fuel and accessories, an abnormally
light weight per horse-power--only 1.89 lbs.--was attained when running at the normal rate
of revolution. The cylinders and water-jackets are of steel, and there is fitted a detachable
aluminium cylinder head containing inlet and exhaust valves and valve actuating mechanism;
pistons are of aluminium alloy, and there are two inlet and two exhaust valves to each cylinder,
the whole of the valve mechanism being enclosed in an oil-tight aluminium case. Connecting
rods and crankshaft are of steel, the latter being machined from a solid steel forging and
carried in five roller bearings and one plain bearing at the forward end. The front end of
the crank-case encloses reduction gear for the propeller shaft, together with the shaft and
bearings. There are two suction and one pressure type oil pumps driven through gears at half-engine
speed, and two 12 spark magnetos, giving 2 sparks in each cylinder.

The cylinders are set with the central row vertical, and the two side rows at angles of 60
degrees each; cylinder bore is 5 1/2 inches, and stroke 5 1/8 inches; the normal rate of revolution
is 1,350 per minute, and the reducing gear gives one revolution of the propeller shaft to 1.52
revolutions of crankshaft. Fuel consumption is 0.48lbs. of fuel per brake horse-power hour
at full load, and oil consumption is 0.020 lbs. per brake horsepower hour. The dry weight of
the engine, complete with propeller boss, carburettors, and induction pipes, is 850 lbs., and
the gross weight in running order, with fuel and oil for six hours working, is 2,671 lbs.,
exclusive of cooling water.

To this engine belongs an altitude record of 30,500 feet, made at Martlesham, near Ipswich,
on January 2nd, 1919, by Captain Lang, R.A.F., the climb being accomplished in 66 minutes 15
seconds. Previous to this, the altitude record was held by an Italian pilot, who made 25,800
feet in an hour and 57 minutes in 1916. Lang's climb was stopped through the pressure of air,
at the altitude he reached, being insufficient for driving the small propellers on the machine
which worked the petrol and oil pumps, or he might have made the height said to have been attained
by Major Schroeder on February 27th, 1920, at Dayton, Ohio. Schroeder is said to have reached
an altitude of 36,020 feet on a Napier biplane, and, owing to failure of the oxygen supply,
to have lost consciousness, fallen five miles, righted his machine when 2,000 feet in the air,
and alighted successfully. Major Schroeder is an American.

Turning back a little, and considering other than British design of Vee and double-Vee or 'Broad
arrow' type of engine, the Renault firm from the earliest days devoted considerable attention
to the development of this type, their air-cooled engines having been notable examples from
the earliest days of heavier-than-air machines. In 1910 they were making three sizes of eight-cylindered
Vee-type engines, and by 1915 they had increased to the manufacture of five sizes, ranging
from 25 to 100 brake horse-power, the largest of the five sizes having twelve cylinders but
still retaining the air-cooled principle. The De Dion firm, also, made Vee-type engines in
1914, being represented by an 80 horse-power eight-cylindered engine, air-cooled, and a 150
horse-power, also of eight cylinders, water-cooled, running at a normal rate of 1,600 revolutions
per minute. Another notable example of French construction was the Panhard and Levassor 100
horse-power eight-cylinder Vee engine, developing its rated power at 1,500 revolutions per
minute, and having the--for that time--low weight of 4.4 lbs. per horse-power.

American Vee design has followed the British fairly cclosely; the Curtiss Company produced
originally a 75 horse-power eight-cylinder Vee type running at 1,200 revolutions per minute,
supplementing this with a 170 horse-power engine running at 1,600 revolutions per minute, and
later with a twelve-cylinder model Vee type, developing 300 horse-power at 1,500 revolutions
per minute, with cylinder bore of 5 inches and stroke of 7 inches. An exceptional type of American
design was the Kemp Vee engine of 80 horse-power in which the cylinders were cooled by a current
of air obtained from a fan at the forward end of the engine. With cylinders of 4.25 inches
bore and 4.75 inches stroke, the rater power was developed at 1,150 revolutions per minute,
and with the engine complete the weight was only 4.75 lbs. per horse-power.

III. THE RADIAL TYPE

The very first successful design of internal combustion aero engine made was that of Charles
Manly, who built a five-cylinder radial engine in 1901 for use with Langley's 'aerodrome,'
as the latter inventor decided to call what has since become known as the aeroplane. Manly
made a number of experiments, and finally decided on radial design, in which the cylinders
are so rayed round a central crank-pin that the pistons act successively upon it; by this arrangement
a very short and compact engine is obtained, with a minimum of weight, and a regular crankshaft
rotation and perfect balance of inertia forces.

When Manly designed his radial engine, high speed internal combustion engines were in their
infancy, and the difficulties in construction can be partly realised when the lack of manufacturing
methods for this high-class engine work, and the lack of experimental data on the various materials,
are taken into account. During its tests, Manly's engine developed 52.4 brake horsepower at
a speed of 950 revolutions per minute, with the remarkably low weight of only 2.4 lbs. per
horsepower; this latter was increased to 3.6 lbs. when the engine was completed by the addition
of ignition system, radiator, petrol tank, and all accessories, together with the cooling water
for the cylinders.

In Manly's engine, the cylinders were of steel, machined outside and inside to 1/16 of an inch
thickness; on the side of cylinder, at the top end, the valve chamber was brazed, being machined
from a solid forging, The casing which formed the water-jacket was of sheet steel, 1/50 of
an inch in thickness, and this also was brazed on the cylinder and to the valve chamber. Automatic
inlet valves were fitted, and the exhaust valves were operated by a cam which had two points,
180 degrees apart; the cam was rotated in the opposite direction to the engine at one-quarter
engine speed. Ignition was obtained by using a one-spark coil and vibrator for all cylinders,
with a distributor to select the right cylinder for each spark--this was before the days of
the high-tension magneto and the almost perfect ignition systems that makers now employ. The
scheme of ignition for this engine was originated by Manly himself, and he also designed the
sparking plugs fitted in the tops of the cylinders. Through fear of trouble resulting if the
steel pistons worked on the steel cylinders, cast iron liners were introduced in the latter,
1/16 of an inch thick.

The connecting rods of this engine were of virtually the same type as is employed on nearly
all modern radial engines. The rod for one cylinder had a bearing along the whole of the crank
pin, and its end enclosed the pin; the other four rods had bearings upon the end of the first
rod, and did not touch the crank pin. The accompanying diagram shows this construction, together
with the means employed for securing the ends of the four rods--the collars were placed in
position after the rods had been put on. The bearings of these rods did not receive any of
the rubbing effect due to the rotation of the crank pin, the rubbing on them being only that
of the small angular displacement of the rods during each revolution; thus there was no difficulty
experienced with the lubrication.

Another early example of the radial type of engine was the French Anzani, of which type one
was fitted to the machine with which Bleriot first crossed the English Channel--this was of
25 horse-power. The earliest Anzani engines were of the three-cylinder fan type, one cylinder
being vertical, and the other two placed at an angle of 72 degrees on each side, as the possibility
of over-lubrication of the bottom cylinders was feared if a regular radial construction were
adopted. In order to overcome the unequal balance of this type, balance weights were fitted
inside the crank case.

The final development of this three-cylinder radial was the 'Y' type of engine, in which the
cylinders were regularly disposed at 120 degrees apart, the bore was 4.1, stroke 4.7 inches,
and the power developed was 30 brake horse-power at 1,300 revolutions per minute.

Critchley's list of aero engines being constructed in 1910 shows twelve of the radial type,
with powers of between 14 and 100 horse-power, and with from three to ten cylinder--this last
is probably the greatest number of cylinders that can be successfully arranged in circular
form. Of the twelve types of 1910, only two were water-cooled, and it is to be noted that these
two ran at the slowest speeds and had the lowest weight per horse-power of any.

The Anzani radial was considerably developed special attention being paid to this type by its
makers and by 1914 the Anzani list comprised seven different sizes of air-cooled radials. Of
these the largest had twenty cylinders, developing 200 brake horse-power--it was virtually
a double radial--and the smallest was the original 30 horse-power three-cylinder design. A
six-cylinder model was formed by a combination of two groups of three cylinders each, acting
upon a double-throw crankshaft; the two crank pins were set at 180 degrees to each other, and
the cylinder groups were staggered by an amount equal to the distance between the centres of
the crank pins. Ten-cylinder radial engines are made with two groups of five cylinders acting
upon two crank pins set at 180 degrees to each other, the largest Anzani 'ten' developed 125
horsepower at 1,200 revolutions per minute, the ten cylinders being each 4.5 inches in bore
with stroke of 5.9 inches, and the weight of the engine being 3.7 lbs. per horse-power. In
the 200 horse-power Anzani radial the cylinders are arranged in four groups of five each, acting
on two crank pins. The bore of the cylinders in this engine is the same as in the three-cylinder,
but the stroke is increased to 5.5 inches. The rated power is developed at 1,300 revolutions
per minute, and the engine complete weighs 3.4 lbs. per horse-power.

With this 200 horse-power Anzani, a petrol consumption of as low as 0.49 lbs. of fuel per brake
horse-power per hour has been obtained, but the consumption of lubricating oil is compensatingly
high, being up to one-fifth of the fuel used. The cylinders are set desaxe with the crank shaft,
and are of cast-iron, provided with radiating ribs for air-cooling; they are attached to the
crank case by long bolts passing through bosses at the top of the cylinders, and connected
to other bolts at right angles through the crank case. The tops of the cylinders are formed
flat, and seats for the inlet and exhaust valves are formed on them. The pistons are cast-iron,
fitted with ordinary cast-iron spring rings. An aluminium crank case is used, being made in
two halves connected together by bolts, which latter also attach the engine to the frame of
the machine. The crankshaft is of nickel steel, made hollow, and mounted on ball-bearings in
such a manner that practically a combination of ball and plain bearings is obtained; the central
web of the shaft is bent to bring the centres of the crank pins as close together as possible,
leaving only room for the connecting rods, and the pins are 180 degrees apart. Nickel steel
valves of the cone-seated, poppet type are fitted, the inlet valves being automatic, and those
for the exhaust cam-operated by means of push-rods. With an engine having such a number of
cylinders a very uniform rotation of the crankshaft is obtained, and in actual running there
are always five of the cylinders giving impulses to the crankshaft at the same time.

An interesting type of pioneer radial engine was the Farcot, in which the cylinders were arranged
in a horizontal plane, with a vertical crankshaft which operated the air-screw through bevel
gearing. This was an eight-cylinder engine, developing 64 horse-power at 1,200 revolutions
per minute. The R.E.P. type,in the early days, was a 'fan' engine, but the designer, M. Robert
Pelterie, turned from this design to a seven-cylinder radial, which at 1,100 revolutions per
minute gave 95 horse-power. Several makers entered into radial engine development in the years
immediately preceding the War, and in 1914 there were some twenty-two different sizes and types,
ranging from 30 to 600 horse-power, being made, according to report; the actual construction
of the latter size at this time, however, is doubtful.

Probably the best example of radial construction up to the outbreak of War was the Salmson
(Canton-Unne) water-cooled, of which in 1914 six sizes were listed as available. Of these the
smallest was a seven-cylinder 90 horse-power engine, and the largest, rated at 600 horse-power,
had eighteen cylinders. These engines, during the War, were made under license by the Dudbridge
Ironworks in Great Britain.

The accompanying diagram shows the construction of the cylinders in the 200 horse-power size,
showing the method of cooling, and the arrangement of the connecting rods. A patent planetary
gear, also shown in the diagram, gives exactly the same stroke to all the pistons. The complete
engine has fourteen cylinders, of forged steel machined all over, and so secured to the crank
case that any one can be removed without parting the crank case. The water-jackets are of spun
copper, brazed on to the cylinder, and corrugated so as to admit of free expansion; the water
is circulated by means of a centrifugal pump. The pistons are of cast-iron, each fitted with
three rings, and the connecting rods are of high grade steel, machined all over and fitted
with bushes of phosphor bronze; these rods are connected to a central collar, carried on the
crank pin by two ball-bearings. The crankshaft has a single throw, and is made in two parts
to allow the cage for carrying the big end-pins of the connecting rods to be placed in position.

The casing is in two parts, on one of which the brackets for fixing the engine are carried,
while the other part carries the valve-gear. Bolts secure the two parts together. The mechanically-operated
steel valves on the cylinders are each fitted with double springs and the valves are operated
by rods and levers. Two Zenith carburettors are fitted on the rear half of the crank case,
and short induction pipes are led to each cylinder; each of the carburettors is heated by the
exhaust gases. Ignition is by two high-tension magnetos, and a compressed air self-starting
arrangement is provided. Two oil pumps are fitted for lubricating purposes, one of which forces
oil to the crankshaft and connecting-rod bearings, while the second forces oil to the valve
gear, the cylinders being so arranged that the oil which flows along the walls cannot flood
the lower cylinders. This engine operates upon a six-stroke cycle, a rather rare arrangement
for internal combustion engines of the electrical ignition type; this is done in order to obtain
equal angular intervals for the working impulses imparted to the rotating crankshaft, as the
cylinders are arranged in groups of seven, and all act upon the one crankshaft. The angle,
therefore, between the impulses is 77 1/7 degrees. A diagram is inset giving a side view of
the engine, in order to show the grouping of the cylinders.

The 600 horse-power Salmson engine was designed with a view to fitting to airships, and was
in reality two nine-cylindered engines, with a gear-box connecting them; double air-screws
were fitted, and these were so arranged that either or both of them might be driven by either
or both engines; in addition to this, the two engines were complete and separate engines as
regards carburation and ignition, etc., so that they could be run independently of each other.
The cylinders were exceptionally 'long stroke,' being 5.9 inches bore to 8.27 inches stroke,
and the rated power was developed at 1,200 revolutions per minute, the weight of the complete
engine being only 4.1 lbs. per horse-power at the normal rating.

A type of engine specially devised for airship propulsion is that in which the cylinders are
arranged horizontally instead of vertically, the main advantages of this form being the reduction
of head resistance and less obstruction to the view of the pilot. A casing, mounted on the
top of the engine, supports the air-screw, which is driven through bevel gearing from the upper
end of the crankshaft. With this type of engine a better rate of air-screw efficiency is obtained
by gearing the screw down to half the rate of revolution of the engine, this giving a more
even torque. The petrol consumption of the type is very low, being only 0.48 lbs. per horse-power
per hour, and equal economy is claimed as regards lubricating oil, a consumption of as little
as 0.04 lbs. per horse-power per hour being claimed.

Certain American radial engines were made previous to 1914, the principal being the Albatross
six-cylinder engines of 50 and 100 horse-powers. Of these the smaller size was air-cooled,
with cylinders of 4.5 inches bore and 5 inches stroke, developing the rated power at 1,230
revolutions per minute, with a weight of about 5 lbs. per horse-power. The 100 horse-power
size had cylinders of 5.5 inches bore, developing its rated power at 1,230 revolutions per
minute, and weighing only 2.75 lbs. per horse-power. This engine was markedly similar to the
six-cylindered Anzani, having all the valves mechanically operated, and with auxiliary exhaust
ports at the bottoms of the cylinders, overrun by long pistons. These Albatross engines had
their cylinders arranged in two groups of three, with each group of three pistons operating
on one of two crank pins, each 180 degrees apart.

The radial type of engine, thanks to Charles Manly, had the honour of being first in the field
as regards aero work. Its many advantages, among which may be specially noted the very short
crankshaft as compared with vertical, Vee, or 'broad arrow' type of engine, and consequent
greater rigidity, ensure it consideration by designers of to-day, and render it certain that
the type will endure. Enthusiasts claim that the 'broad arrow' type, or Vee with a third row
of cylinders inset between the original two, is just as much a development from the radial
engine as from the vertical and resulting Vee; however this may be, there is a place for the
radial type in air-work for as long as the internal combustion engine remains as a power plant.

IV. THE ROTARY TYPE

M. Laurent Seguin, the inventor of the Gnome rotary aero engine, provided as great a stimulus
to aviation as any that was given anterior to the war period, and brought about a great advance
in mechanical flight, since these well-made engines gave a high-power output for their weight,
and were extremely smooth in running. In the rotary design the crankshaft of the engine is
stationary, and the cylinders, crank case, and all their adherent parts rotate; the working
is thus exactly opposite in principle to that of the radial type of aero engine, and the advantage
of the rotary lies in the considerable flywheel effect produced by the revolving cylinders,
with consequent evenness of torque. Another advantage is that air-cooling, adopted in all the
Gnome engines, is rendered much more effective by the rotation of the cylinders, though there
is a tendency to distortion through the leading side of each cylinder being more efficiently
cooled than the opposite side; advocates of other types are prone to claim that the air resistance
to the revolving cylinders absorbs some 10 per cent of the power developed by the rotary engine,
but that has not prevented the rotary from attaining to great popularity as a prime mover.

