NO. 12.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 19.

The often-quoted lines--

   "For he that fights and runs away
    May live to fight another day,"

generally supposed to form a part of Hudibras, are to be found (as Mr. Cunningham points out,
at p. 602. of his Handbook for London), in the Musarum Deliciæ, 12mo. 1656; a clever collection
of "witty trifles," by Sir John Mennis and Dr. James Smith.

The passage, as it really stands in Hudibras (book iii. canto iii. verse 243.), is as follows:--

   "For those that fly may fight again,
    Which he can never do that's slain."

But there is a much earlier authority for these lines than the Musarum Deliciæ; a fact which
I learn from a volume now open before me, the great rarity of which will excuse my transcribing
the title-page in full:--

"Apophthegmes, that is to saie, prompte, quicke, wittie, and sentencious saiynges, of certain
Emperours, Kynges, Capitaines, Philosophiers, and Oratours, as well Grekes as Romaines, bothe
veraye pleasaunt and profitable to reade, partely for all maner of persones, and especially
Gentlemen. First gathered and compiled in Latine by the right famous clerke, Maister Erasmus,
of Roteradame. And now translated into Englyshe by Nicolas Udall. Excusam typis Ricardi Grafton,
1542. 8vo."

A second edition was printed by John Kingston, in 1564, with no other variation, I believe,
than in the orthography. Haslewood, in a note on the fly-leaf of my copy, says:--

"Notwithstanding the fame of Erasmus, and the reputation of his translator, this volume has
not obtained that notice which, either from its date or value, might be justly expected. Were
its claim only founded on the colloquial notes of Udall, it is entitled to consideration, as
therein may be traced several of the familiar phrases and common-place idioms, which have occasioned
many conjectural speculations among the annotators upon our early drama."

The work consists of only two books of the original, comprising the apophthegms of Socrates,
Aristippus, Diogenes, Philippus, Alexander, Antigonus, Augustus Cæsar, Julius Cæsar, Pompey,
Phocion, Cicero, and Demosthenes.

On folio 239. occurs the following apophthegm, which is the one relating to the subject before
us:--

   "That same man, that renneth awaie,
    May again fight, on other daie.

   "¶ Judgeyng that it is more for the benefite of
    one's countree to renne awaie in battaile, then to lese
    his life. For a ded man can fight no more; but who
    hath saved hymself alive, by rennyng awaie, may, in
    many battailles mo, doe good service to his countree.

   "§ At lest wise, if it be a poinet of good service, to
    renne awaie at all times, when the countree hath most
    neede of his helpe to sticke to it."

Thus we are enabled to throw back more than a century these famous Hudibrastic lines, which
have occasioned so many inquiries for their origin.

I take this opportunity of noticing a mistake which has frequently been made concerning the
French translation of Butler's Hudibras. Tytler, in his Essay on Translation; Nichols, in his
Biographical Anecdotes of Hogarth; and Ray, in his {178} History of the Rebellion, attributes
it to Colonel Francis Towneley; whereas it was the work of John Towneley, uncle to the celebrated
Charles Towneley, the collector of the Marbles.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIELD OF THE BROTHERS' FOOTSTEPS.

I do not think that Mr. Cunningham, in his valuable work, has given any account of a piece
of ground of which a strange story is recorded by Southey, in his Common-Place Book (Second
Series, p. 21.). The steps answer Mr. Walsh's description.

Mr. Southey then goes on the speak of his full confidence in the tradition of their indestructibility,
even after ploughing up, and of the conclusions to be drawn from the circumstance.

To this long note, I beg to append a query, as to the latest account of these footsteps, previous
to the ground being built over, as it evidently now must be.

G.H.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON AUTHORS AND BOOKS, NO. 4.

Verse may picture the feelings of the author, or it may only picture his fancy. To assume the
former position, is not always safe; and in two memorable instances a series of sonnets has
been used to construct a baseless fabric of biography.

In the accompanying sonnet, there is no such uncertainty. It was communicated to me by John
Adamson, Esq., M.R.S.L., &c., honourably known by a translation of the tragedy of Dona Ignez
de Castro, from the Portuguese of Nicola Luiz, and by a Memoir of the life and writings of
Camoens, &c. It was not intended for publication, but now appears, at my request.

Mr. Adamson, it should be stated, is a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Sciences
of Lisbon, and has received diplomas of the orders of Christ and the Tower-and-Sword. The coming
storm alludes to the menace of invasion by France.

"SONNET.

 "O Portugal! whene'er I see thy name
    What proud emotions rise within my breast!
  To thee I owe--from thee derive that fame
    Which here may linger when I lie at rest.
  When as a youth I landed on thy shore,
    How little did I think I e'er could be
    Worthy the honours thou has giv'n to me;
  And when the coming storm I did deplore,
  Drove me far from thee by its hostile threat--
  With feelings which can never be effaced,
    I learn'd to commune with those writers old
    Who had the deeds of they great chieftains told;
  Departed bards in converse sweet I met,
  I'd seen where they had liv'd--the land Camoens grac'd."

I venture to add the titles of two interesting volumes which have been printed subsequently
to the publications of Lowndes and Martin. It may be a useful hint to students and collectors:--

"BIBLIOTHECA LUSITANA, or catalogue of books and tracts, relating to the history, literature,
and poetry, of Portugal: forming part of the library of John Adamson, M.R.S.L. etc. Newcastle
on Tyne, 1836. 8vo.

"LUSITANIA ILLUSTRATA; notices on the history, antiquities, literature, etc. of Portugal. Literary
department. Part I. Selection of sonnets, with biographical Sketches of the author, by John
Adamson, M.R.S.L. etc. Newcastle upon Tyne, 1842. 8vo."

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECEIPTS TO THE BEGGAR'S OPERA ON ITS PRODUCTION.

Every body is aware of the prodigious and unexpected success of Gay's Beggar's Opera on its
first production; it was offered to Colley Cibber at Drury Lane, and refused, and the author
took it to Rich, at the Lincoln's-Inn-Fields theatre, by whom it was accepted, but not without
hesitation. It ran for 62 nights (not 63 nights, as has been stated in some authorities) in
the season of 1727-1728; of these, 32 nights were in succession; and, from the original Account-book
of the manager, C.M. Rich, I am enabled to give an exact statement of the money taken at the
doors on each night, distinguishing such performances as were for the benefit of the author,
viz. the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 15th nights, which put exactly 693l. 13s. 6d. into Gay's pocket.
This is a new circumstance in the biography of one of our most fascinating English writers,
whether in prose or verse. Rich records that the king, queen, and {179} princesses were present
on the 21st repetition, but that was by no means one of the fullest houses. The very bill sold
at the doors on the occasion has been preserved, and hereafter may be furnished for the amusement
of your readers. It appears, that when the run of the Beggar's Opera was somewhat abruptly
terminated by the advance of the season and the benefits of the actors, the "takings," as they
were and still are called, were larger than ever. The performances commenced on 29th January,
1728, and that some striking novelty was required at the Lincoln's-Inn-Fields theatre, to improve
the prospects of the manager, may be judged from the fact that the new tragedy of Sesostris,
brought out on the 17th January, was played for the benefit of its author (John Sturm) on its
6th night to only 58l. 19s., while the house was capable of holding at least 200l.

In the following statement of the receipts to the Beggar's Opera, I have not thought it necessary
to insert the days of the months:--

                                £    s.   d.
    Night  1   -     -     -   169   12   0
           2   -     -     -   160   14   0
 (Author)  3   -     -     -   162   12   6
           4   -     -     -   163    5   6
           5   -     -     -   175   19   6
 (Author)  6   -     -     -   189   11   0
           7   -     -     -   161   19   0
           8   -     -     -   157   19   6
 (Author)  9   -     -     -   165   12   0
          10   -     -     -   156    8   0
          11   -     -     -   171   10   0
          12   -     -     -   170    5   6
          13   -     -     -   164    8   0
          14   -     -     -   171    5   0
 (Author) 15   -     -     -   175   18   0
          16   -     -     -   160   11   0
          17   -     -     -   171    8   6
          18   -     -     -   163   16   6
          19   -     -     -   158   19   0
          20   -     -     -   170    9   6
          21   -     -     -   163   14   6
          22   -     -     -   163   17   6
          23   -     -     -   179    8   6
          24   -     -     -   161    7   0
          25   -     -     -   169    3   6
          26   -     -     -   163   18   6
          27   -     -     -   168    4   6
          28   -     -     -   153    3   6
          29   -     -     -   165    2   6
          30   -     -     -   152    8   6
          31   -     -     -   183    4   0
          32   -     -     -   185    8   6

Therefore, when the run was interrupted, the attraction of the opera was greater than it had
been on any previous night, excepting the 6th, which was one of those set apart for the remuneration
of the author, when the receipt was 189l. 11s. The total sum realised by the 32 successive
performances was 5351l. 15s., of which, as we have already shown, Gay obtained 693l. 13s 6d.
To him it was all clear profit; but from the sum obtained by Rich are, of course, to be deducted
the expenses of the company, lights, house-rent, &c.

The successful career of the piece was checked, as I have said, by the intervention of benefits,
and the manager would not allow it to be repeated even for Walker's and Miss Fenton's nights,
the Macheath and Polly of the opera; but, in order to connect the latter with it, when Miss
Fenton issued her bill for The Beaux's Stratagem, on 29th April, it was headed that it was
"for the benefit of Polly." An exception was, however, made in favour of John Rich, the brother
of the manager, for whose benefit the Beggar's Opera was played on 26th February, when the
receipt was 184l. 15s. Miss Fenton was allowed a second benefit, on the 4th May, in consequence,
we may suppose, of her great claims in connection with the Beggar's Opera, and then it was
performed to a house containing 155l. 4s. The greatest recorded receipt, in its first season,
was on the 13th April, when, for some unexplained cause the audience was so numerous that 198l.
17s. were taken at the doors.

After this date there appears to have been considerable fluctuation in the profits derived
from repetitions of the Beggar's Opera. On the 5th May, the day after Polly Fenton's (her real
name was Lavinia) second benefit, the proceeds fell to 78l. 14s., the 50th night produced 69l.
12s., and the 51st only 26l. 1s. 6d. The next night the receipt suddenly rose again to 134l.
13s. 6d., and it continued to range between 53l. and 105l. until the 62nd and last night (19th
June), when the sum taken was 98l. 17s. 6d.

Miss Fenton left the stage at the end of the season, to be made Duchess of Bolton, and in the
next season her place, as regards the Beggar's Opera, was taken by Miss Warren, and on 20th
September it attracted 75l. 7s.; at the end of November it drew only 23l., yet, on the 11th
December, for some reason not stated by the manager, the takings amounted to 112l. 9s. 6d.
On January 1st a new experiment was tried with the opera, for it was represented by children,
and the Prince of Wales commanded it on one or more of the eight successive performances it
thus underwent. On 5th May we find Miss Cantrell taking Miss Warren's character, and in the
whole, the Beggar's Opera was acted more than forty times in its second year, 1728-9, including
the performances by "Lilliputians" as well as comedians. This is, perhaps, as much of its early
history as your readers will care about.

DRAMATICUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

{180} NOTES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON.

Lady Dacre's Alms-Houses, or Emanuel Hospital.--"Jan. 8. 1772, died, in Emanual Hospital, Mrs.
Wyndymore, cousin of Mary, queen of William III., as well as of Queen Anne. Strange revolution
of fortune, that the cousin of two queens should, for fifty years, by supported by charity."--MS.
Diary, quoted in Collett's Relics of Literature, p. 310.

Essex Buildings.--"On Thursday next, the 22nd of this instant, November, at the Musick-school
in Essex Buildings, over against St. Clement's Church in the Strand, will be continued a concert
of vocal and instrumental musick, beginning at five of the clock, every evening. Composed by
Mr. Banister."--Lond. Gazette, Nov. 18. 1678. "This famous 'musick-room' was afterwards Paterson's
auction-room."--Pennant's Common-place Book.

St. Antholin's.--In Thorpe's Catalogue of MSS. for 1836 appears for sale, Art. 792., "The Churchwarden's
Accounts, from 1615 to 1752, of the Parish of St. Antholin's, London." Again, in the same Catalogue,
Art. 793., "The Churchwardens and Overseers of the Parish of St. Antholin's, in London, Accounts
from 1638 to 1700 inclusive." Verily these books have been in the hands of "unjust stewards!"

Clerkenwell.--Names of eminent persons residing in this parish in 1666:--Earl of Carlisle,
Earl of Essex, Earl of Aylesbury, Lord Barkely, Lord Townsend, Lord Dellawar, Lady Crofts,
Lady Wordham, Sir John Keeling, Sir John Cropley, Sir Edward Bannister, Sir Nicholas Stroude,
Sir Gower Barrington, Dr. King, Dr. Sloane. In 1667-8:--Duke of Newcastle, Lord Baltimore,
Lady Wright, Lady Mary Dormer, Lady Wyndham, Sir Erasmus Smith, Sir Richard Cliverton, Sir
John Burdish, Sir Goddard Nelthorpe, Sir John King, Sir William Bowles, Sir William Boulton.--Extracted
from a MS. in the late Mr. Upcott's Collection.

Tyburn Gallows.--No. 49. Connaught Square, is built on the spot where this celebrated gallows
stood; and, in the lease granted by the Bishop of London, this is particularly mentioned.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *        *        *        *        *

SEWERAGE IN ETRURIA.

I have been particularly struck, in reading The Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria, of George
Dennis, by the great disparity there appears between the ancient population of this country
and the present.

The ancient population appears, moreover, to have been located in circumstances not by any
means favourable to the health of the people. Those cities surrounded by high walls, and entered
by singularly small gateways, must have been very badly ventilated, and very unfavourable to
health; and yet it is not reasonable to suppose they could have been so unhealthy then as the
author describes the country at present to be. It is hardly possible to imagine so great a
people as the Etruscans, the wretched fever-stricken objects the present inhabitants of the
Maremna are described to be.

To what, then, can this great difference be ascribed? The Etruscans appear to have taken very
great pains with the drainage of their cities; on many sites the cloaca are the only remains
of their former industry and greatness which remain. They were also careful to bury their dead
outside their city walls; and it is, no doubt, to these two circumstances, principally, that
their increase and greatness, as a people, are to be ascribed. But why do not the present inhabitants
avail themselves of the same means to health? Is it that they are idle, or are they too broken
spirited and poverty-stricken to unite in any public work? Or has the climate changed?

Perhaps it was owing to some defect in their civil polity that the ancients were comparatively
so easily put down by the Roman power, which might have been the superior civilisation. Possibly
the great majority of the people may have been dissatisfied with their rulers, and gladly removed
to another place and another form of government. It is even possible, and indeed likely, that
these great public works may have been carried on by the forced labour of the poorest and,
consequently, the most numerous class of the population, and that, consequently, they had no
particular tie to their native city, as being only a hardship to them; and they may even have
had a dislike to sewers in themselves, as reminding them of their bondage, and which dislike
their descendants have inherited, and for which they are now suffering. At any rate, it is
an instructive example to our present citizens of the value of drainage and sanitary arrangements,
and shows that the importance of these things was recognised and appreciated in the earliest times.

C.P.F.

       *        *        *        *        *

ANDREW FRUSIUS--ANDRÉ DES FREUX.

Many of your readers, as well as "ROTERODAMUS," will be ready to acknowledge their obligation
to Mr. Bruce for his prompt identification of the author of the epigram against Erasmus (pp.
27, 28.). I have just referred to the catalogue of the library of this university, and I regret
to say that we have no copy of any of the works of Frusius. Mr. Bruce says he knows nothing
of Frusius as an author. I believe there is no mention of him in any English bibliographical
or biographical work. There is, however, a notice {181} of him in the Biographie Universelle,
vol. xvi. (Paris), and in the Biografia Universale, vol. xxi. (Venezia). As these works have,
perhaps, found their way into very few private English libraries, I send you the following
sketch, which will probably be acceptable to your readers. It is much to be lamented that sufficient
encouragement cannot be given in this country for the production of a Universal Biography.
Roses's work, which promised to be a giant, dwindled down to a miserable pigmy; and that under
"The Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge" was strangled in its birth.

André des Freux, better known by his Latin name, Frusius, was born at Chartres, in the beginning
of the sixteenth century. He embraced the life of an ecclesiastic, and obtained the cure of
Thiverval, which he held many years with great credit to himself. The high reputation of Ignatius
Loyola, who was then at Rome, with authority from the Holy See to found the Society of the
Jesuits, led Frusius to that city, where he was admitted a member of the new order in 1541,
and shortly after became secretary to Loyola. He contributed to the establishment of the Society
at Parma, Venice, and many towns of Italy and Sicily. He was the first Jesuit who taught the
Greek language at Messina; he also gave public lectures on the Holy Scriptures in Rome. He
was appointed Rector of the German College at Rome, shortly before his death, which occurred
on the 25th of October, 1556, three months and six days after the death of Loyola. Frusius
had studied, with equal success, theology, medicine, and law: he was a good mathematician,
an excellent musician, and made Latin verses with such facility, that he composed them, on
the instant, on all sorts of subjects. But these verses were neither so elegant nor so harmonious,
as Alegambe asserts[1], since he adds, that it requires close attention to distinguish them
from prose. Frusius translated, from Spanish into Latin, the Spiritual Exercises of Loyola.
He was the author of the following works:--Two small pieces, in verse, De Verborum et Rerum
Copia, and Summa Latinæ Syntaxeos: these were published in several different places; Theses
Collectæ ex Interpretatione Geneseos; Assertiones Theologicæ, Rome, 1554; Poemata, Cologne,
1558--this collection often reprinted at Lyons, Antwerp and Tournon, contains 255[2] epigrams
against the heretics, amongst whom he places Erasmus;--a poem De Agno Dei; and, lastly, another
poem, entitled Echo de Presenti Christianæ Religionis Calamitate, which has been sometimes
cited as an example of a great difficulté vaincue. The edition of Tournon contains also a poem,
De Simplicitate, of which Alegambe speaks with praise. To Frusius was also owing an edition
of Martial's Epigrams, divested of their obscenities.

EDW. VENTRIS. Cambridge, Jan. 10. 1850.

[Our valued correspondent, MR. MACCABE, has also informed us that the "Epigrams of Frusius
were published at Antwerp, 1582, in 8vo., and at Cologne, 1641, in 12mo. See Feller's Biographie."]

    [1] I presume in his Bibliotheca Scriptorum Societatis
    Jesu.

    [2] Duthilloeul, according to Mr. Bruce, says 251.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPINIONS RESPECTING BURNET

A small catena patrum has been given respecting Burnet, as a
historian, in No. 3. pp. 40, 41., to which two more scriptorum
judicia have been appended in No. 8. p. 120., by "I.H.M.". England, vol. ii.
    p.177, 3rd. Ed.

T. Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES

SAINT THOMAS OF LANCASTER.

Sir,--I am desirous of information respecting the religious veneration paid to the memory of
Thomas, Earl of Lancaster, cousin-german to King Edward the Second. He was taken in open rebellion
against the King on the 16th of March, 1322, condemned by a court-martial, and executed, with
circumstances of great indignity, on the rising ground above the castle of Pomfret, which at
the time was in his possession. His body was probably given to the monks of the adjacent priory;
and soon after his death miracles were said to be performed at his tomb, and at the place of
{182} execution; a curious record of which is preserved in the library of Corpus Christi College,
at Cambridge, and introduced by Brady into his history of the period. About the same time,
a picture or image of him seems to have been exhibited in St. Paul's Church, in London, and
to have been the object of many offerings. A special proclamation was issued, denouncing this
veneration of the memory of a traitor, and threatening punishment on those who encouraged it;
and a statement is given by Brady of the opinions of an ecclesiastic, who thought it very doubtful
how far this devotion should be encouraged by the Church, the Earl of Lancaster, besides his
political offences, having been a notorious evil-liver.

As soon, however, as the King's party was subdued, and the unhappy sovereign, whose acts and
habits had excited so much animosity, cruelly put to death, we find not only the political
character of the Earl of Lancaster vindicated, his attainder reversed, his estates restored
to his family, and his adherents re-established in all their rights and liberties, but within
five weeks of the accession of Edward the Third, a special mission was sent to the Pope from
the King, imploring the appointment of a commission to institute the proper canonical investigation
for his admission into the family of saints. His character and his cause are described, in
florid language, as having been those of a Christian hero; and the numberless miracles wrought
in his name, and the confluence of pilgrims to his tomb, are presumed to justify his invocation.

In June of the same year (1327), a "king's letter" is given to Robert de Weryngton, authorising
him and his agents to collect alms throughout the kingdom for the purpose of building a chapel
on the hill where the Earl was beheaded, and praying all prelates and authorities to give him
aid and heed. This sanction gave rise to imposture; and in December a proclamation appeared,
ordering the arrest and punishment of unauthorised persons collecting money under this pretence,
and taking it for their own use.

In 1330, the same clerical personages were sent again to the Pope, to advance the affair of
the canonization of the Earl, and were bearers of letters on the same subject from the King
to five of the cardinals, all urging the attention of the Papal court to a subject that so
much interested the Church and people of England.

It would seem, however, that some powerful opposition to this request was at work at the Roman
see. For in the April of the following year another commission, composed of a professor of
theology, a military personage, and a magistrate of the name of John de Newton, was sent with
letters to the Pope, to nine cardinals, to the referendary of the Papal court, and to three
nephews of his Holiness, entreating them not to give ear to the invectives of malignant men
("commenta fictitia maliloquorum"), who here asserted that the Earl of Lancaster consented
to, or connived at, some injury or insult offered to certain cardinals at Durham in the late
king's reign. So far from this being true, the letters assert that the earl defended these
prelates to the utmost of his power, protected them from enemies who had designs on their lives,
and placed them in security at his own great peril. The main point of the canonization is again
urged, and allusion made to former repeated supplications, and the sacred promise, "Knock,
and it shall be opened unto you," appealed to. The vindication of the Earl from the malicious
charge against him is omitted in the letters to two of the cardinals and the lay personages.
Were these the two cardinals who fancied themselves injured?

This, then, is all I can discover in the ordinary historical channels respecting this object
of ancient public reverence in England. The chapel was constructed and officiated in till the
dissolution of the monasteries; the image in St. Paul's was always regarded with special affection;
and the cognomen of Saint Thomas of Lancaster was generally accepted and understood.

Five hundred years after the execution of the Earl of Lancaster, a large stone coffin, massive
and roughly hewn, was found in a field that belonged of old to the Priory of Pomfret, but at
least a quarter of a mile distant from the hill where the chapel stood. Within was the skeleton
of a full-grown man, partially preserved; the skull lay between the thighs. There is no record
of the decapitation of any person at Pomfret of sufficient dignity to have been interred in
a manner showing so much care for the preservation of the body, except the Earl of Lancaster.
The coffin may have been removed here at the time the opposite party forbade its veneration,
from motives of precaution for its safety.

Now, I shall be much obliged for information on the following points:--

Is any thing known, beyond what I have stated, as to the communications with Rome on the subject
of his canonization, or as to the means by which he was permitted by the English church to
become a fit object for invocation and veneration?

