But the assault did not go unpunished. The might of Samson woke in that insulted bosom, and
lent such incredible weight to the blow that fell on the aggressor's ear, that it took him
a long time to believe that the thump proceeded from the beautiful little hand he had so often
admired; or, in short, from any thing but a twenty-four pounder. He rubbed the wounded organ
with astonishing assiduity for some time. At last he said, in a very calm and measured voice,

"Your father has deceived me, young lady. He led me to believe you did not receive my visits
with indifference."

"My father knows nothing about things of that kind," replied Christina, still flaming with
indignation, "or he never would have let such an ill-mannered monster into his house. But he
was right in saying I did not receive your visits with indifference; your visits, Count Ericson,
can never be indifferent to me, and"----

What more she would have said, it is impossible to discover, for she was interrupted by the
sudden entrance of her cousin, who only heard her last words, and started back at what he considered
so open a declaration of her attachment.

"Who are you, sir?" asked Ericson in an angry tone, and with such an assumption of superiority,
that Christina's hand tingled to give him a mark of regard on his other ear.

"A soldier," answered Adolphus, drawing his sword from its sheath and instead of directing
it against his rival, laying it haughtily on the table. "A soldier who has bled for his country,
and would be happy," he added, "to die for it."

"Say you so?" said Ericson, "then we are friends." He held out his hand.

"We are rivals," replied Adolphus, drawing back.

"Christina loves you, then?" enquired the Count.

"She has told me so; and I was foolish enough to believe her. It is now your turn to trust
to the truth of a heartless woman.--She has told you you are not an object of indifference
to her, and I resign my pretensions in your favour."

"In whose favour?" cried Christina, trembling; while tears sprang to her eyes.

"The King's!" replied Adolphus, retiring sorrowfully.

Christina sank on a seat, and covered her face with her hands.

"Stay," cried Charles the Twelfth in a voice of thunder; "stay, I command you."

The young man obeyed; biting his lip to conceal his emotion, till the blood came.

"I have seen you," said the King, "but not in this house."

"It was shut against me by my uncle when you were expected," said Adolphus.

"And yet I have seen you somewhere. What is your name?"

"Adolphus Hesse; the son of a brave officer who died fighting for you, and leaving me his misfortunes
and the tears of his widow."

"Who told you I was not Count Ericson?"

"My eyes. I know you well."

"And I recollect you also," said Charles, advancing to the young man with a manner very different
from that which characterized him in his intercourse with the softer sex. "Where did you get
that scar on the left temple?"

"At Nerva, sire, where we tamed the pride of the Russians."

"True, true!" cried Charles, his nostrils dilated as if he snuffed up the carnage of the battle.
"You need but this as your passport," he continued, placing his finger on the wound, "to ask
me any favour, ay, even to measure swords with you, as I daresay you would be delighted to
do in so noble a quarrel as the present; for on the day of that glorious fight, I learned,
like you, the duty of a soldier, and the true dignity of a brave man. By the balls that rattled
about our heads so playfully, give me your hand, brother, for we were baptized together in fire!"

Charles appeared to Christina, at this time, quite a different man addressing his fellow soldier,
from what he had done upsetting the chess-board. Curiosity had dried her eyes, and she lost
not a word of the conversation. The King turned to her with a smile.

"By my sword, Christina! I am but a poor wooer; one movement of your hand," and he touched
his ear playfully as he spoke, "has banished all the silly thoughts that in a most traitorous
manner had taken my heart prisoner. Speak, then, as forcibly as you act. Do you love this brave
soldier?"

"Yes, sire."

"Who hinders the marriage?"

"The courtship of Count Ericson, with which my father perpetually threatens me."

"O ho!" thought Charles, "I see how it is. The King must console himself with the kiss, and
pass the blow on the ear to the minister. Christina," he added aloud, "your father refuses
to give you to the man you love; but he'll do it now, for it is my will. You'll confess, I
am sure that if I was your nightmare as a lover, I am not your enemy as king."

"I confess it on my knees;" replied the humble beauty, taking her place beside her cousin,
who knelt to his sovereign. While Charles joined the hands of the youthful pair, he imprinted
a kiss on the fair brow of Christina; the last he ever bestowed on woman.

"Your Majesty pardons me then?" enquired the trembling girl. "If I had known it was the King,
I would not have hit so hard."

That same evening Count Gyllenborg signed a contract of marriage, to which the name of Count
Ericson was not appended, though it was witnessed by Charles the Twelfth; and in a few days
afterwards, the old politician presided at the wedding dinner, and, by royal command, did the
honours so nobly, and appeared so well pleased on the occasion, that nobody suspected that
he had ever had higher dreams of ambition than to see his daughter happy; and if such had been
his object, all Sweden knew that in bestowing her on her cousin he was eminently successful.

PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN ENGLAND.

If Alexander and Archimedes, evoked from their long sleep, were to contemplate, with minds
calmed by removal from contemporaneous interests, the state of mankind in the present year,
with what different feelings would they regard the influence of their respective lives upon
the existing human world of 1843! The Macedonian would find the empire which it was the labour
of his life to aggrandize, frittered into parcels, modeled, remodeled, subjected to various
dynasties; Turks, Greeks, Russians, still contending for portions of the territory which he
had conjoined only to be dismembered; he would find in these little or no trace of his ever
having existed; he would find that the unity of his vast political power had been severed before
his body was yet entombed, and his prediction, that his funeral obsequies would be performed
with bloody hands, verily fulfilled. In parts of the world which his living grasp had not seized,
he would also see little to remind him of his past existence. Would not mortification darken
the brow of the resuscitated conqueror on discovering, that when his name was mentioned in
historic annals, it was less as a polar star to guide, than as a beacon to be avoided?

What would the Syracusan see in this present epoch to remind him of himself? Would he see the
man of 212 B.C., at all connected with the men of 1843 A.D.? Yes. In Prussia, Austria, France,
England, America, in every city of every civilized nation, he would find the lever, the pulley,
the mirror, the specific gravimeter, the geometric demonstration; he would trace the influence
of his mind in the power-loom, the steam-engine, in the building of the Royal Exchange, in
the Great Britain steam-ship; he would find an application of his well-known invention, the
subject of a patent, an important auxiliary to navigation. Alexander was a hero; Archimedes is one.

Are we guilty of exaggeration in this contrast of the hero of War with him of Science? We think
not. It may undoubtedly be argued that Alexander's life was productive of ultimate good, that
he did much to open Asia to European civilization; but would that consideration serve to soothe
the gloomy Shade? To what does it amount but to the assertion that out of evil cometh good?
It was through no aim of his mind that this resulted, nor are mankind indebted to him personally
for a collateral effect of his existence.

As an instance of men of a more modern era, let us take Napoleon Buonaparte, Emperor of France,
and James Watt of Greenock, civil engineer.

The former applied the energies of a sagacious and comprehensive intellect to his own political
aggrandizement; the latter devoted his more modest talents to the improvement of a mechanical
engine. The former was and is, par excellence, a hero of history--we should scarcely find in
the works of the most voluminous annalists the name of the latter. What has Napoleon done to
entitle his name to occupy so prominent a position? He has been the cause, mediate or immediate,
of sacrificing the lives of two millions of men.[17]

    [17] From a rough calculation taken from the returns of
    those left dead on the fields of battle in which
    Napoleon commanded, from Montenotte to Waterloo, we make
    the amount 1,811,500; and if we add those who died
    subsequently of their wounds in the petty skirmishes,
    the losses in which are not reported, and in the naval
    fights, of which, though Napoleon was not present, he
    was the cause, the number given in the text will be far
    under the mark. A picture of the fathers, mothers,
    wives, children, and relatives of these victims,
    receiving the news of their death, would give a lively
    idea of the benefits conferred upon the world by
    Napoleon.

Has the obscure Watt done nothing to merit a page in the records of mankind? Walk ten miles
in any manufacturing district, enter any coal-mine, examine the bank of England, travel by
the Great Western railway, or navigate the Danube, the Mediterranean, the Indian or the Atlantic
Ocean--in each and all of these, that giant slave, the steam-engine, will be seen, an ever-living
testimony to the services rendered to mankind by its subjugator.

Attachment to a favourite pursuit is undoubtedly calculated to bias the judgment; but, however
liable may be the obscure votary of science to override his hobby, Francis Bacon, Lord High
Chancellor of England, in ascribing to scientific discoverers a higher merit than to legislators,
emperors, or patriots, cannot be open to the charge of egoistic partiality. What, then, says
this illustrious witness?--"The introduction of noble inventions seems to hold by far the most
excellent place among all human actions. And this was the judgment of antiquity, which attributed
divine honours to inventors, but conferred only heroical honours upon those who deserve well
in civil affairs, such as the founders of empires, legislators, and deliverers of their country.
And whoever rightly considers it, will find this a judicious custom in former ages, since the
benefits of inventors may extend to all mankind, but civil benefits only to particular countries
or seats of men; and these civil benefits seldom descend to more than a few ages, whereas inventions
are perpetuated through the course of time. Besides, a state is seldom amended in its civil
affairs without force and perturbation; whilst inventions spread their advantage without doing
injury or causing disturbance."[18]

    [18] Nov. Org. Aph. 29.

The opinion of a man who had reached the highest point to which a civilian could aspire, cannot,
when he estimates the honours of the Chancellor as inferior to those of the natural philosopher,
be ascribed to misjudging enthusiasm or personal disappointment. Without, however, seeking,
for the sake of antithetic contrast, to underrate the importance of political services, civil
or military, or to exaggerate those of the man of science, few, we think, will be disposed
to deny that, although the one may be temporarily more urgent and necessary to the well-being
of an existing race, yet that the benefits of the other are more lasting and universal. If,
then, the influence on mankind of the secluded inventor be more extensive and durable than
that of the active politician--if there be any truth in the opinion of Bacon, that the greatest
political changes are wrought by the peaceful under-current of science; why is it that those
who occupy the highest place as permanent benefactors of mankind, are, during their lifetime,
neglected and comparatively unknown;--that they obtain neither the tangible advantages of pecuniary
emolument, nor the more suitable, but less lucrative, honours of grateful homage? It is the
common cry to exclaim against the neglect of science in the present day. Alas! history does
not show us that our predecessors were more just to their scientific contemporaries. The evil
is to a great extent remediless, the complaint to some extent irrational, and unworthy the
dignity of the cause. The labourer in the field of science works not for the present, but for
succeeding generations; he plants oaks for posterity, and must not look for the gratitude of
contemporaries. Men will remunerate less, and be less grateful for, prospective than for present
good--for benefits secured to their posterity than to themselves; the realization of the advantages
is so distant, that the amount of discount is coextensive with the debt: it is only as the
applications of science become more immediate, that the cultivators of science can reasonably
expect an adequate reward or appreciation.

Even when practically applied, we too frequently see that the original discoveries of the physical
philosopher are but little valued by those who make a daily, a most extensive, and a most lucrative
use of their results. Men talk of "a million;" how few have ever counted one! Men walk along
the Strand, Fleet Street, Ludgate Hill; how few think of the multiplied passions and powers
which flit by them on their way--of the separate world which surrounds each passer-by--of the
separate history, external and internal, of each--each possessing feelings, motives of action,
characters, differing from the others, as the stamp of nature on his brow differs from his
fellows! Thus, also, men's ears ring with the advancement of science, men's beards wag with
repetition of the novel powers which have been educed from material nature; and if, in our
daily traffic, we traverse without attention countless sands of thought, how much more, in
our hackneyed talk of science, do we neglect the debt we owe to thought--thought, not the mere
normal impulse of humanity, but the carefully elaborated lucubration of minds, of which the
term thinking is emphatically predicable! Names which are met with but once in the annals of
science, and there, dimly seen as a star of the least magnitude, have perhaps earned that remote
and obscure corner by painful self-denial, by unwearied toil! And yet not only these, but others
who have added to diligence high mental acumen or profundity, whose wells of thought are, compared
with those of the general mass, unfathomable, earn but a careless, occasional notice--are known
but to few of those who daily reap the harvest which they have sown, and who even boast of
seeing further than they did, as the dwarf on the shoulders of a giant can see further than
the giant. The first step of the unthinking is to deny the possibility of a given discovery,
the next is to assert that any one could have foreseen such discovery.

There are, however, points of higher import than gain or glory to which the philosopher must
ever look, and the absence of which must be a source of bitter disappointment and ground of
just complaint. The most important of these is, that, by national neglect, the cause of science
is injured, her progress retarded. Not only is she not honoured, she is dishonoured; and in
no civilized nation is this contempt of physical science carried to a greater extent than in
England, the country of commerce and of manufactures.

In this country, should a father observe in his gifted son a tendency to physical philosophy,
he anxiously endeavours to dissuade him from this career, knowing that not only will it tend
to no worldly aggrandizement, but that it will have the inevitable effect of lowering his position
in what is called, and justly called, good society--the society of the most highly educated
classes. At one of our universities, physical science is utterly neglected; at the other, only
certain branches of it are cultivated. There are, it is true, university professors of each
branch of physics, some of whom are able to collect a moderate number of pupils; others are
obliged to carry with them an assistant, to whom alone they lecture, as Dean Swift preached
to his clerk. But what part of the regular academic education does the study of Natural Philosophy
occupy? It forms no necessary part of the examinations for degrees; no credit is attached to
those who excel in its pursuit; no prizes, no fellowships, no university distinction, conferred
upon its most successful votaries. On the contrary, physical, or at all events experimental,
science is tabooed; it is written down "snobbish," and its being so considered has much influence
in making it so: the necessity of manipulation is a sad drawback to the gentlemanliness of
a pursuit. Bacon rebuked this fastidiousness, but in vain. "We will, moreover, show those who,
in love with contemplation, regard our frequent mention of experiments as something harsh,
unworthy, and mechanical, how they oppose the attainment of their own wishes, since abstract
contemplation, and the construction and invention of experiments, rest upon the same principles,
and are brought to perfection in a similar manner."[19]

    [19] Impetus Philosophici, p. 681.

Unfortunately, the fact of experimental science being rejected by the educated classes and
thrown in a great measure upon the artizans of a country, has conducted, among other evils,
to one of a most detrimental character; viz. the want of accuracy in scientific language, and
consequently the want of accuracy in ideas. Perfection in language, as in every thing else,
is not to be attained, and doubtless there are few of the most highly educated who would not,
in many cases, assign different meanings to the same word; but if some confusion on this subject
is unavoidable, how much is that confusion increased, as regards scientific subjects, by the
mass of memoirs written by parties, who, however acute their mental perceptions may be, yet,
from want of early education, do not assign to words that accuracy of signification, and do
not possess that perspicuity of style, which is absolutely necessary for the communication
of ideas! Those, therefore, who, with different notions of language, read the writings of such
as we are alluding to, either fail to attach to them any definite meaning, or attach one different
from that which the authors intended to convey; whence arises a want of reciprocal intelligence,
a want of unity of thought and purpose. Another defect arising from the circumstance that persons
of a high order of education have not been generally the cultivators of experimental science
in this country, is, that the path is thereby rendered more accessible to empiricism. Science,
beautiful in herself, has thence a class of deformed disciples, who succeed in entangling their
false pretensions with the claims of true merit. So much dust is puffed into the eyes of the
public, that it can hardly distinguish between works of durable importance and the ephemeral
productions of empirics; and those who would otherwise disdain the notoriety acquired by advertisement,
end in adopting the system as the only means to avoid the mortification of seeing their own
ideas appropriated and uttered in another form and in another's name.[20]

    [20] In any thing we have above said, we trust it is
    unnecessary to disclaim the slightest intention of
    discouraging those whose want of conventional advantages
    only renders their merit more conspicuous; we find fault
    not with the uneducated for cultivating science, but
    with the educated for neglecting it.

While the evils to which science is exposed by the necessarily unfashionable character of experimental
manipulation are neither few nor trivial, there are still evils which arise from the directly
opposite cause--from excess of intellectual cultivation; as is shown in the exclusive love
of mathematics by a great number of philosophers. Minds which, left to themselves, might have
eliminated the most valuable results, have, dazzled by the lustre cast by fashion upon abstract
mathematical speculations, lost themselves in a mazy labyrinth of transcendentals. The fashion
of mathematics has ruined many who might be most useful experimentalists; but who, wishing
to take a higher flight, seek to attain distinction in mathematical analysis, and having acquired
a certain celebrity for experimental research, dissipate, in simple equations, the fame they
had acquired in a field equally productive, but not so select. Like Claude, who in his later
years said, "Buy my figures, and I will give you my landscapes for nothing;" they fall in love
with their own weakness, and estimate their merit by the labour they have undergone, not by
the results they have deduced. M. Comte expresses himself well on this subject. "Mathematicians,
too frequently taking the means for the end, have embarrassed Natural Philosophy with a crowd
of analytical labours, founded upon hypotheses extremely hazardous, or even upon conceptions
purely visionary; and consequently sober-minded people can see in them really nothing more
than simple mathematical exercises, of which the abstract value is sometimes very striking,
without their influence, in the slightest degree, accelerating the natural progress of Physics."[21]

    [21] Cours de Philosophie Positive, vol. ii. p. 409.

The cultivators of science, despite the want of encouragement, have, like every other branch
of the population, increased rapidly in number, and, being thrown upon their own resources,
have organized SOCIETIES, the number of which is daily increasing, which do much good, which
do much harm. They do good, in so far as they carry out their professed objects of facilitating
intercourse between votaries of similar branches of study--they do good by the more attainable
communication of the researches of those who cannot afford, or will not dare, the ordinary
channels of publication; but who, sanctioned by the judgment of a select tribunal, are glad
to work and to impart to the public the fruits of their labour--they give an esprit de corps,
which forms a bond of union to each section, and induces a moral discipline in its ranks. The
investment of their funds in the collection of libraries or of apparatus, the use of which
becomes thus accessible to individuals, to whom otherwise such acquisitions would have been
hopeless, is another meritorious object of their institution; an object in many cases successfully
carried out. On the other hand, they do harm, by becoming the channels of selfish speculation,
their honorary offices being used as stepping-stones to lucrative ones, thereby causing their
influential members to please the givers of "situations," and to publish the trash of the impertinently
ambitious, the Titmice of the Credulous Societies! The ultra-ridiculous parade with which they
have decked fair science, giving her a vest of unmeaning hieroglyphics, and thereby exposing
her to the finger of scorn, is another prominent and unsightly feature of such societies; they
do harm by the cliquerie which they generate, collecting little knots of little men, no individual
of whom can stand his own ground, but a group of whom, by leaning hard together, can, and do,
exercise a most pernicious influence; seeking petty gain and class celebrity, they exert their
joint-stock brains to convert science into pounds, shillings, and pence; and, when they have
managed to poke one foot upon the ladder of notoriety, use the other to kick furiously at the
poor aspirants who attempt to follow them.

It has been frequently and strenuously urged, that these societies, or some of them, should
be supported by government, and not dependent upon the subscriptions of their members. The
arguments in favour of such a measure are, that by thus being accessible only to merit, and
not depending upon money, their position would be more honourable and advantageous to the progress
of science. With regard to such societies generally, this proposition is incapable of realization;
every year sees a new society of this description; to annex many of these to government, would
involve difficulties which, in the present state of politics, would be insurmountable. Who,
for instance, would pay taxes for them? Another, and more reasonable, proposition is, that
the government should establish and support one academy as a head and front of the others,
accessible only to men of high distinction, who would be thus constituted the oligarchs of
science. Of the advantage of this we have some doubts. Politics are already too much mixed
up with all government appointments in England: their influence is at present scarcely felt
in science, and we would not willingly risk an introduction so fraught with danger. The want
of such an academy certainly lessens the English in the eyes of the continental savans; but
could not such a one be organized, and perhaps endowed, by government, without any permanent
connexion with it?

If we compare the proceedings, undoubtedly dignified and decorous, of our Royal Society with
those of the French Academy, we fear the balance will be found to be in favour of the latter.
At Somerset House, after the list of donations and abstract of former proceedings, a paper,
or a portion of a paper, is read upon some abstruse scientific subject, and the meeting is
adjourned in solemn silence, no observation can be made upon it, no question asked, or explanation
given. The public is excluded,[22] and the greater part of the members generally exclude themselves,
very few having resolution enough to leave a comfortable dinner-table to bear the solemn formalities
of such an evening. The paper is next committed, it is not known to whom, reported on in private,
and either published, or deposited in the archives of the Society, according to the judgment
of the unknown irresponsible parties to whom it is committed. Let us now look at the proceedings
of the French Academy; it is open to the public, and the public take so great an interest in
it, that to secure a seat an early attendance is always requisite. Every scientific point of
daily and passing interest is brought before it--comments, such as occur at the time, are made
upon various points by the secretary, or any other member who likes to make an observation--the
more elaborate memoirs are read by the authors themselves, and if any quære or suggestion occurs
to a member present, he has an opportunity of being answered. The memoir is then committed
to parties whose names are publicly mentioned, who bring out their report in public, which
report is read in public, and may be answered by the author if he object to it. Lastly, the
whole proceedings are printed and published verbatim, and circulated at the next weekly meeting,
while, in the mean time, the public press notices them freely. That, with all these advantages,
the French Academy is not free from faults, we are far from asserting; that there is as much
unseen manœuvring and petty tyranny in this as in most other institutions, is far from improbable;[23]
but the effect upon the public, and the zest and vitality which its proceedings give to science,
are undeniable, and it is also undeniable that we have no scientific institution approaching
to it in interest or value.

    [22] Each Fellow can, indeed, by express permission of
    the Society, take with him two friends.

    [23] An anonymous author, who has attracted some
    attention in France, in commenting on the rejection of
    Victor Hugo, and the election of a physician, says--that
    nothing could be more natural or proper, as the senility
    and feebleness of the Académie made it more in want of a
    physician than a poet.

The present perpetual secretary of the Academy, Arago, with much of prejudice, much of egotism,
has talents most plastic, an energy of character, an indomitable will, a force and perspicuity
of expression, which alone give to the sittings of the French Academy a peculiar and surpassing
interest, but which, in the English Society, would be entirely lost.

In quitting, for the present, the subject of scientific societies, we must advert to a consequence
of the increased number of candidates for scientific distinction of late years; of which increase
the number of these societies may be regarded as an exponent. This increase, although on the
whole both a cause and a consequence of the advancement of science, yet has in some respects
lowered the high character of her cultivators by the competition it has necessarily engendered.
Books tell us that the cultivation of science must elevate and expand the mind, by keeping
it apart from the jangling of worldly interests. This dogma has its false as well as its true
side, more especially when in this, as in every other field of human activity, the number of
competitors is rapidly increasing; great watchfulness is requisite to resist temptations which
beset the aspirant to success on this arena, more perhaps than in any other. The difficulty
which the most honest find to avoid treading in the footsteps of others--the different aspect
in which the same phenomena present themselves to different minds--the unwillingness which
the mind experiences in renouncing published but erroneous opinions--are points of human weakness
which, not to mislead, must be watched with assiduous care. Again, the ease with which plagiarism
is committed from the number of roads by which the same point may be reached, is a great temptation
to the waverer, and a great trial of temper to the victim. The disputants on the arenæ of law,
politics, or other pursuits, the ostensible aim of which is worldly aggrandizement, however
animated in debate, unsparing in satire, reckless in their invective and recrimination, seldom
fail in their private intercourse to throw off the armour of professional antagonism, and to
extend to each other the ungloved hand of social cordiality. On the other hand, it is too frequent
a spectacle in scientific circles to behold a careful wording of public controversy, a gentle,
apologetic phraseology, a correspondence never going beyond the "retort courteous," or "quip
modest," while there exists an under-current of the bitterest personal jealousy, the outward
philosopher being strangely at variance with the inward man.

Among the various circumstances which influence the progress of physical science in this country,
one of the most prominent is the Patent law--a law in its intention beneficent; but whether
the practical working of it be useful, either to science or its cultivators, is a matter of
grave doubt. Of the greater number of patents enrolled in that depot of practical science,
Chancery Lane, by far the majority are beneficial only to the revenue; and on the question
of public economy, whether or not the price paid by miscalculating ingenuity is a fair and
politic source of revenue, we shall not enter; but on the reasons which lead so many to be
dupes of their own self-esteem, a few words may not be misspent. The chief reason why a vast
number of patents are unsuccessful, is, that it takes a long time (longer generally than fourteen
years, the statutable limit of patent grants) to make the workmen of a country familiar with
a new manufacture. A party, therefore, who proposes patenting an invention, and who sits down
and calculates the value of the material, the time necessary for its manufacture, and other
essential data; comparing these with the price at which it can be sold to obtain a remunerative
profit, seldom takes into consideration the time necessary, first, to accustom the journeymen
workers to its construction, and secondly, to make known to the public its real value. In the
present universal competition, puffing is carried on to such an extent, that, to give a fair
chance of success, not only must the first expense of a patent be incurred--no inconsiderable
one either, even supposing the patentee fortunate enough to escape litigation--but a large
sum of money must be invested in advertisements, with little immediate return; hence it is
that the most valuable patents, viewed in relation to their scientific importance, their ultimate
public benefit, and the merits of their inventors, are seldom the most lucrative, while a patent
inkstand, a boot-heel, a shaving case, or a button, become rapidly a source of no inconsiderable
profit. Is this beneficial to inventors? Is it an encouragement of science, or a proper object
of legislative provision, that the improver of the most trivial mechanical application should
be carefully protected, while those who open the hidden sources of myriads of patents, are
unrewarded, and incapable of remunerating themselves? We seriously incline to think that, as
the matter at present stands, an entire erasure from the statute-books of patent provision
would be of service to science, and perhaps to the community; each tradesman would depend for
success upon his own activity, and the perfection he could give his manufacture, and the scientific
searcher after experimental truths would not find his path barred by prohibitions from speculative
empirics.

According to the present patent laws, it is more than questionable whether the discoverer of
a great scientific principle could pursue his own discovery, or whether he would not be arrested
on the threshold by a subsequent patentee; if Jacobi lived in constitutional England instead
of despotic Russia, it is doubtful if he could work out his discovery of the electrotype--we
say doubtful; for, as far as we can learn, it seems hitherto judicially undecided whether the
mere use of a patent, not for sale or a lucrative object, is such a use within the statute
of James as would be an infringement of a patentee's rights. It appears to be settled, that
a previous experimental and unpublished use by one party, does not prevent another subsequent
inventor of the same process from patenting it; and, by parity of reasoning, we should say,
that if a party have the advantage of patenting an invention which can be found to have been
previously used, but not for sale, he should not have the additional privilege of prohibiting
the same party, or others, from proceeding with their experiments. There are, however, not
wanting arguments for the other view. The practice of a patented invention, for one's own benefit
or pleasure, deprives the patentee of a possible source of profit; for it cannot be said that
the party experimenting, if prohibited, might not apply for a license to the patentee. Take,
for instance, the notorious and justly censured patent of Daguerre. Supposing, for argument's
sake, this patent to be valid, can a private individual, under the existing patent laws, take
photographic views or portraits for his own amusement, or in pursuance of scientific investigations?
If he cannot, then is an exquisitely beautiful path of physics to be shut up for fourteen years;
or if he can, then is the licensee, a purchaser for value, to be excluded from very many sources
of pecuniary emolument? To us, the injury to the public, in this and similar cases, appears
of incomparably greater consequence than that to the individual; but what the authorities at
Westminster Hall may say is another question. Even could the patent laws be so modified, that
the benefits derived from them could fall upon those scientific discoverers most justly entitled,
we are still doubtful as to their utility, or whether they would contribute to the advancement
of science, which is the point of view in which we here principally regard them. It would scarcely
add to the dignity of philosophy, or to the reverence due to its votaries, to see them running
with their various inventions to the patent office, and afterwards spending their time in the
courts of law, defending their several claims. They would thus entirely lose the respect due
to them from their contemporaries and posterity, and waste, in pecuniary speculation, time
which might be more advantageously, and without doubt more agreeably, employed. If parties
look to money as their reward, they have no right to look for fame; to those who sell the produce
of their brains, the public owes no debt.

We have observed recently a strong tendency in men of no mean scientific pretensions to patent
the results of their labours. We blame them not: it is a matter of free election on their part,
but we cannot praise them. A writer in a recent number of the Edinburgh Review, has the following
remarks on the subject of Mr Talbot's patented invention of the Calotype. "Nor does the fate
of the Calotype redeem the treatment of her sister art, (the Daguerreotype.) The Royal Society,
the philosophical organ of the nation, has refused to publish its processes in her transactions.
* * * No representatives of the people unanimously recommended a national reward. * * * It
gives us great pleasure to learn, that though none of his (Mr Talbot's) photographical discoveries
adorn the transactions of the Royal Society, yet the president and the council have adjudged
him the Rumford medals for the last biennial period."[24]

    [24] Edin. Rev. No. 159.

The notion of a "national reward" for the Calotype scarcely requires a remark. If, after a
discovery is once made and published, every subsequent new process in the same art is to be
nationally rewarded, the income-tax must be at least quadrupled. The complaint, however, against
the Royal Society, is not altogether groundless. True it is that the first paper of Mr Talbot
did not contain an account of the processes employed by him, and therefore should not have
been even read to the Society; but the paper on the Calotype did contain such description,
and we see no reason why a society for the advancement of knowledge should not give publicity
to a valuable process, though made the subject of a patent--but it certainly should not bestow
an honorary reward upon an inventor who has withheld from the Royal Society and the public
the practice of the invention whose processes he communicates. Mr Talbot had a perfect right
to patent his invention, but has on that account no claim in respect of the same invention
to an honorary reward. The Royal Society did not publish his paper, but awarded him a medal.
In our opinion, they should have published his paper and not awarded him a medal.

Regarded as to her national encouragement of science, there are some features in which England
differs not from other countries; there are others in which she may be strikingly contrasted
with them; and, with all our love for her, we fear she will suffer by the contrast. A learned
writer of the present day, has the following passage in reference to the state of science in
England as contrasted with other countries:--"When the proud science of England pines in obscurity,
blighted by the absence of the royal favour and the nation's sympathy; when her chivalry fall
unwept and unhonoured, how can it sustain the conflict against the honoured and marshalled
genius of foreign lands?"[25]

    [25] Brewster's Life of Newton, p. 35.

This, to be sure, is somewhat "tumultuous." We do not, however, cite it as a specimen of composition,
but as an expression of a very prevalent feeling; the opinion involved in the concluding quære
is open to doubt--England does sustain the conflict, if any conflict there be to sustain; but
we are bound to admit, that in no country are the soldiers of science militant less honoured
or rewarded. It is no uncommon remark, that despotic governments are the most favourable to
the cultivation of the arts and sciences. There is, perhaps, a general truth in this, and the
causes are not difficult of recognition. In a republican or constitutional government, politics
are the all-engrossing topics of a people's thought, the never-ending theme of conversation;--in
purely despotic states, such discussions are prohibited, and the contemplation of such subjects
confined to a few restless or patriotic spirits. It must also be ever the policy of absolute
monarchs to open channels for the public mind, which may divert it from political considerations.
Take America and Austria as existing instances of this contrast: in the former, the universality
of political conversation is an object of remark to all travellers; in the latter, even books
which touch at all on political matters are rigidly excluded. These are among the causes which
strike us as most prominent, but whose effects obtain only when despotism is not so gross as
to be an incubus upon the whole moral and intellectual energies of a people.

We should lose sight of the objects proposed in these pages, and also transgress our assigned
limits, were we to enter into detail upon the present state of science in Europe, or trace
the causes which have influenced her progress in each state. This would form a sufficient thesis
for a separate essay; but we will not pass over this branch of our subject, without venturing
to express an opinion on the delicate and embarrassing question as to what rank each nation
holds as a promoter of physical science.

In experimental and theoretical Physics, we should be inclined to place the German nations
in the first rank; in pure and applied mathematics, France. The former nations far excel all
others in the independence and impartiality with which they view scientific results; researches
of any value, from whatever part of the world they emanate, instantly find a place in their
periodicals; and they generally estimate more justly the relative value of different discoveries
than any other European nation; the æsthetical power which enables them to seize and appreciate
what is beautiful in art, gives them perception and discrimination in science; but they are
not great as originators. The French, notwithstanding the high pitch at which they have undoubtedly
arrived in mathematical investigation, not withstanding the general accuracy of their experimental
researches, have more of the pedantry of science; their papers are too professional--too much
selon les règles; there are too many minutiæ; the reader is tempted to exclaim with Jacques--"I
think of as many matters as he; but I give Heaven thanks, and make no boast of them." Their
accuracy frequently degenerates into affectation and parade. We have now before us a paper
in the Annales de Chimie, containing some chemical researches, in which, though the difference
of each experiment in a small number, put together for average, amounts to several units, the
weights are given to the fifth place of decimals. England, which we should place next, is by
no means exempt from these trappings of science. Many English scientific papers seem written
as if with the resolute purpose of filling a certain number of pages, and many of their writers
seem to think a paper per annum, good or bad, necessary to indicate their philosophical existence.
They write, not because they have made a discovery, but because their period of hybernation
has expired. Still, in England, there is a strong vein of original thought. Competition, if
it lead to puffing and quackery, yet stimulates the perceptions; and, in England, competition
has done its worst and its best; in original chemical discovery, England has latterly been
unrivalled.

Next to England we should place Sweden and Denmark--for their population they have done much,
and done it well; then Italy--in Italy science is well organized, and the rulers of her petty
states seem to feel a proper emulation in promoting scientific merit--in which laudable rivalry
the Archduke of Tuscany deserves honourable mention; America and Russia come next--the former
state is zealous, ready at practical application, and promises much for the future, but as
yet has not done enough in original research to entitle her to be placed in the van. Russia
at present possesses few, if any, native philosophers--her discoverers and discoveries are
all imported; but the emperor's zeal and patronage (a word which we scarcely like to apply
to science) is doing much to organize her forces, and the mercenary troops may impart vigour,
and induce discipline into the national body. In this short enumeration, we have considered
each country, not according to the number of its very eminent men; for though far from denying
the right which each undoubtedly possesses to shine by the reflected lustre of her stars, yet
in looking, as it were, from an external point, it is more just to regard the general character
of each people than to classify them according as they may happen to be the birthplace of those

    "To whom all scenes of Europe homage owe."

A misunderstanding of the proper use of theory is among the prevalent scientific errors of
the present day. Among one set of men of considerable intelligence, but who are not habitually
conversant with physical science, there is a general tendency to despise theory. Whence comes
it? Where goes it?"[26]

    [26] Carlyle on Hero Worship.

However the experienced philosopher may be convinced that in themselves theories are nothing--that
they are but collations of phenomena under a generic formula, which is useful only inasmuch
as it groups these phenomena; yet it is difficult to see how, without these imperfect generalizations,
any mind can retain the endless variety of facts and relations which every branch of science
presents; still less, how these can be taught, learned, reasoned upon, or used. How could the
facts of geology be recollected, or how, indeed, could they constitute a science without reference
to some real or supposed bond of union, some aqueous or igneous theory? How could two chemists
converse on chemistry without the use of the term affinity, and the theoretical conception
it involves? How could a name be applied, or a nomenclature adopted, without that imperfect,
or more or less perfect grouping of facts, which involves theory? As far as we can recollect,
all the alterations of nomenclature which have been introduced, or attempted, proceed upon
some alteration of theory.

If not theory but hypothesis be objected to--not the imperfect generalization of phenomena,
but a gratuitous assumption for the sake of collating them, this, although ground which should
be trodden more cautiously, appears in certain cases unavoidable; in fact, is scarcely separable
from theory. Had men not "lectured learnedly" about the two fluids of electricity, we should
not now possess many of the discoveries with which this science is enriched, although we do
not, and probably never shall, know what electricity is.

On the other hand, among professed physical philosophers, the great abuse of theories and hypotheses
is, that their promulgators soon regard them, not as aids to science, to be changed if occasion
should require, but as absolute natural truths; they look to that as an end, which is in fact
but a means; their theories become part of their mental constitution, idiosyncrasies; and they
themselves become partizans of a faction, and cease to be inductive philosophers.

Another injury to science, in a great measure peculiar to the present day, arises from the
number of speculations which are ushered into the world to account for the same phenomena;
every one, like Sir Andrew Aguecheek, when he wished to cudgel a Puritan, has for his opinion
"no exquisite reasons, but reasons good enough." In the periods of science immediately subsequent
to the time of Bacon, men commenced their career by successful experiment; and having convinced
the world of their aptitude for perceiving the relations of natural phenomena, enounced theories
which they believed the most efficient to give a comprehensive generality to the whole. Men
now, however, commence with theories, though, alas! the converse does not hold good--they do
not always end with experiment.

As, in the promulgation of theories, every aspirant is anxious to propound different news,
so, in nomenclature, there is a strong tendency to promiscuous coining. The great commentator
on the laws of England, Sir William Blackstone, observes, "As to the impression, the stamping
of coin is the unquestionable prerogative of the crown, * * * the king may also, by his proclamation,
legitimate foreign coin, and make it current here."[27]

    [27] Commentaries, vol. i. p. 277.

As coinage of money is the undoubted prerogative of the crown; so generally coinage of words
has been the undoubted prerogative of the kings of science--those to whom mankind have bent
as to unquestionable authority. But even these royal dignitaries have generally been sparing
in the exercise of this prerogative, and used it only on rare occasions and when absolutely
necessary, either from the discovery of new things requiring new names, or upon entire revolutions
of theory.

But now there is no "pudor" in the matter. Every man has his own mint; and although their several
coins do not pass current very generally, yet they are taken here and there by a few disciples,
and throw some standard money out of the market. The want of consideration evinced in these
novel vocabularies is remarkable. Whewell, whose scientific position and dialectic turn of
mind may fairly qualify him to be a word-maker, seems peculiarly deficient in ear. Take, as
an instance, "idiopts," an uncomfortable word, barely necessary, as the persons to whom it
applies are comparatively rare, and will scarcely thank the Master of Trinity College for approximating
them in name to a more numerous and more unfortunate class--the word physicists, where four
sibilant consonants fizz like a squib. In these, and we might add many from other sources,
euphony is wantonly disregarded; by other authors of smaller calibre, classical associations
are curiously violated. We may take, as an instance, platinode, Spanish-American joined to
ancient Greek. In chemistry there is a profusion of new coin. Sulphate of ammonia--oxi-sulphion
of ammonium--sulphat-oxide of ammonium--three names for one substance. This mania is by no
means common to England. In Liebig's Chemistry, Vol. ii. p. 313, we have the following passage:--"It
should be remarked that some chemists designate artificial camphor by the name of hydrochlorate
of camphor. Deville calls it bihydrochlorate of térèbène, and Souberaine and Capelaine call
it hydrochlorate of pencylène."

So generally does this prevail, that in chemical treatises the names of substances are frequently
given with a tail of synonymes. Numerous words might be cited which are names for non-existences--mere
hypothetic groupings; and yet so rapidly are these increasing, that it seems not impossible,
in process of time, there will be more names for things that are not than for things that are.
If this work go on, the scientific public must elect a censor whose fiat shall be final; otherwise,
as every small philosopher is encouraged or tolerated in framing ad libitum a nomenclature
of his own, the inevitable effect will be, that no man will be able to understand his brother,
and a confusion of tongues will ensue, to be likened only to that which occasioned the memorable
dispersion at Babel.

Many of the defects to which we have alluded in the course of this paper, time alone can remedy.
In spite of all drawbacks, the progress of science has been vast and rapidly increasing; the
very rapidity of its progress brings with it difficulties. So many points, once considered
impossible, have been proved possible, that to some minds the suggestion of impossibility seems
an argument in favour of possibility. Because steam-travelling was once laughed at as visionary,
aerial navigation is to be regarded as practicable--perhaps, indeed, it will be so, give but
the time proportionably requisite to master its difficulties, as there was given to steam.
What proportion this should be we will not venture to predict. There can be little doubt that
the most effectual way to induce a more accurate public discrimination of scientific efforts
is to turn somewhat more in that direction the current of national education. Prizes at the
universities for efficiency in the physics of light, heat, electricity, magnetism, or chemistry,
could, we conceive, do no harm. Why should not similar honours be conferred on those students
who advance the progress of an infant science, as on those who work out with facility the formulæ
of an exact one; and why should not acquirements in either, rank equally high with the critical
knowledge of the digamma or the à priori philosophy of Aristotle? Is not Bacon's Novum Organon
as much entitled to be made a standard book for the schools as Aldrich's logic? Venerating
English universities, we approve not the inconsiderate outcries against systematic and time-honoured
educational discipline; but it would increase our love for these seminaries of sound learning,
could we more frequently see such men as Davy emanate from Oxford, instead of from the pneumatic
institution of Bristol.

Provided science be kept separate from political excitement, we should like to see an English
Academy, constituted of men having fair claims to scientific distinction, and not "deserving
of that honour because they are attached to science."

It is unnecessary here to touch upon the details of such an Academy. The proposition is by
no means new. On the contrary, we believe a wish for some such change pretty generally exists.
Iteration is sometimes more useful than originality. The more frequently the point is brought
before the public, the more probable is it that steps will be taken by those who are qualified
to move in such a matter. The more the present defective state of our scientific organization
is commented on, the more likely is it to be remedied; for the patency of error is ever a sure
prelude to its extirpation.

CHRONICLES OF PARIS.

THE RUE ST DENIS.

One of the longest, the narrowest, the highest, the darkest, and the dirtiest streets of Paris,
was, and is, and probably will long be, the Rue St Denis. Beginning at the bank of the Seine,
and running due north, it spins out its length like a tape-worm, with every now and then a
gentle wriggle, right across the capital, till it reaches the furthest barrier, and thence
has a kind of suburban tail prolonged into the wide, straight road, a league in length, that
stretches to the town of Sainct-Denys-en-France. This was, from time immemorial, the state-road
for the monarchs of France to make their formal entries into, and exits from, their capital--whether
they came from their coronation at Rheims, or went to their last resting-place beneath the
tall spire of St Denis. This has always been the line by which travellers from the northern
provinces have entered the good city of Paris; and for many a long year its echoes have never
had rest from the cracking of the postilion's whip, the roll of the heavy diligence, and the
perpetual jumbling of carts and waggons. It is, as it has ever been, one of the main arteries
of the capital; and nowhere does the restless tide of Parisian life run more rapidly or more
constantly than over its well-worn stones. In the pages of the venerable historians of the
French capital, and in ancient maps, it is always called "La Grande Rue de Sainct Denys," being,
no doubt, at one time the ne plus ultra of all that was considered wide and commodious. Now
its appellation is curtailed into the Rue St D'nis, and it is avoided by the polite inhabitants
of Paris as containing nothing but the bourgeoisie and the canaille. Once it was the Regent
Street of Paris--a sort of Rue de la Paix--lounged along by the gallants of the days of Henri
IV., and not unvisited by the red-heeled marquises of the Regent d'Orleans's time; now it sees
nothing more recherché than the cap of the grisette or the poissarde, as the case may be, nor
any thing more august than the casquette of the commis-voyageur, or the indescribable shako
and equipments of the National Guard. As its frequenters have been changed in character, so
have its houses and public buildings; they have lost much of the picturesque appearance they
possessed a hundred years ago--they are forced every year more and more into line, like a regiment
of stone and mortar. Instead of showing their projecting, high-peaked gables to the street,
they have now turned their fronts, as more polite; the roofs are accommodated with the luxury
of pipes, and the midnight sound of "Gare l'eau!" which used to make the late-returning passenger
start with all agility from beneath the opened window to avoid the odoriferous shower, is now
but seldom heard. A Liliputian footway, some two feet wide, is laid down in flags at either
side; the oscillating lamp, that used to hang on a rotten cord thrown across the roadway from
house to house, and made darkness visible, has given place to the genius of gas--enfin, la
Révolution a passé par là; and the Rue de St Denis is now a ghost only of what it was. Still
it retains sufficient peculiarities of dimensions and outline to show that it is a child of
the middle ages; and, like so many other children of the same kind, it contributes to make
its mother Paris, as compared with the modern-built capitals of Europe, a town of former days.
Long may it retain these oddities of appearance--long may it remain narrow, dark, and dirty;
we rejoice that such streets still exist--they do one's eye good, if not one's nose. There
is more of colour, of light and shade, of picturesque, fantastic outline, in a hundred yards
of the Rue St Denis, than in all the line from Piccadilly to Whitechapel; a painter can pick
up more food for his easel in this queer, old street--an antiquarian can find there more tales
and crusts for his noddle, than in all Regent Street and Portland Place. We love a ramshackle
place like this; it does one good to get out of the associations of the present century, and
to retrograde a bit; it is pleasant to see how people used to pig together in ancient days,
without any of the mathematical formalities of the present day; it keeps one's eye in tone
to look back at works of the middle ages; and we may learn the more justly to criticize what
we see arising about us, by refreshing our recollections of the mouldering past. Paris is a
glorious place for things of this kind. Thank the stars, it never got burned out of its old
clothes, as London did. Newfangled streets and quarters of every age have been added to it,
but there still remains a mediæval nucleus--there is still an "old Paris"--a gloomy, filthy,
old town, irregular and inconvenient as any town ever was yet; and a walk of twenty minutes
will take you from the elegant uniformity of the Rue de Rivoli into the original chaos of buildings--into
the Quartier des Halles and into the Rue St Denis. How often have we hurried down them on a
cold winter's day--say the 31st of December--to buy bons-bons in the Rue des Lombards, once
the abode of bankers, now the paradise of confiseurs, against the coming morrow--the grand
day of visits and cadeaux--braving the snow some three feet deep in the midst of the street--or,
if there happened to be no snow, the mud a foot and a half, splashing through it with our last
new pair of boots from Legrand's, and the last pantalon from Blondel's--for cabriolet or omnibus,
none might pass that way; and there, amid onion-smelling crowds, in a long, low shop, with
lamps lighted at two o'clock, have consummated our purchase, and floundered back triumphant!
Away, ye gay, seducing vanities of the Palais Royal or the Boulevards; your light is too garish
for our sober eyes--the sugar of your comfitures is too chalky for our discriminating tooth!
Our appropriate latitude is that of the Quartier St Denis! One thing, however, we must confess,
we never did in the Rue St Denis--we never dined there! Oh non! il ne faut pas faire ça! 'Tis
the headquarters of all the sausage-dealers, the charcutiers, and the rotisseurs of Paris.
Genuine meat and drink there is none; cats hold the murderous neighbourhood in traditional
abhorrence, and the ruddiest wine of Burgundy would turn pale were the aqueous reputation of
the street whispered near its cellar-door. Thank Heaven, we have a gastronomic instinct that
saved us from acts of suicidal rashness! When in Paris, gentle reader, we always dine at the
Trois Frères Provençaux; the little room in blue, remember--time, six P.M.; potage à la Julienne--bifteck
au vin de Champagne--poulet à la Marengo--Chambertin, and St Péray rosé. The next time you
visit the Palais-Royal, turn in there, and dine with us--we shall be delighted to see you!

There are few gaping Englishmen who have been on the other side of the Channel but have found
their way along the Boulevards to the Porte St Denis, and have stared first of all at that
dingy monument of Ludovican pride, and then have stared down the Rue St Denis, and then have
stared up the Rue du Faubourg St Denis; but very few are ever tempted to turn either to the
right hand or to the left, and so they generally poke on to the Porte St Martin, or stroll
back to the Madeleine, and rarely make acquaintance with the Dionysian mysteries of Paris.
For the benefit, therefore, of such travellers as go to the French capital with their eyes
in their pockets, and of such as stay at home and travel by their fireside, but still can relish
the recollections and associations of olden times, we are going to rake together some of the
many odd notes that pertain to the history of this street and its immediate vicinity.

The readiest way into the Rue St Denis from the Isle de la Cité, the centre of Paris, has always
been over the Pont-au-Change. This bridge, now the widest over the Seine, was once a narrow,
ill-contrived structure of wood, covered with a row of houses on either side, that formed a
dark and dirty street, so that you might pass through it a hundred times without once suspecting
that you were crossing a river. These houses, built of stone and wood, overhung the edges of
the bridge, and afforded their inhabitants an unsafe abode between the sky and the water. At
times the river would rise in one of its periodical furies, and sweep away a pier or two with
the superincumbent houses; at others the wooden supporters of the structure would catch fire
by some untoward event, and the inhabitants had the choice of being fried or drowned, along
with their penates and their supellectile property. Such a catastrophe happened in the reign
of Louis XIII., when this and another wooden bridge, situated, oddly enough, close by its side,
were set on fire by a squib, which some gamins de Paris were letting off on his Majesty's highway;
and in less than three hours 140 houses had disappeared. It was Louis VII., in the twelfth
century, who gave it the name it has since borne; for he ordered all the money-changers of
Paris to come and live on this bridge--no very secure place for keeping the precious metals;
and about two hundred years ago the money-changers, fifty-four in number, occupied the houses
on one side, while fifty goldsmiths lived in those on the other. In the open roadway between,
was held a kind of market or fair for bird-sellers, who were allowed to keep their standings
on the curious tenure of letting off two hundred dozens of small birds whenever a new king
should pass over this bridge, on his solemn entry into the capital. The birds fluttered and
whistled on these occasions, the gamins clapped their hands and shouted, the good citizens
cried "Noel!" and "Vive le Roy!" and the courtiers were delighted at the joyous spectacle.
Whether the birds flew away ready roasted to the royal table, history is silent; but it would
have been a sensible improvement of this part of the triumphal ceremony, and we recommend it
to the serious notice of all occupiers of the French throne.

On arriving at the northern end of the bridge, the passenger had on his right a covered gallery
of shops, stretching up the river side to the Pont Notre Dame, and called the Quai de Gesvres;
here was a fashionable promenade for the beaux of Paris, for it was filled with the stalls
of pretty milliners, like one of our bazars, and boasted of an occasional bookseller's shop
or two, where the tender ballads of Ronsard, or the broad jokes of Rabelais, might be purchased
and read for a few livres. To the left was a narrow street, known by the curious appellation
of Trop-va-qui-dure, the etymology of which has puzzled the brains of all Parisian antiquaries;
while just beyond it, and still by the river side, was the Vieille Vallée de Misère--words
indicative of the opinion entertained of so ineligible a residence. In front frowned, in all
the grim stiffness of a feudal fortress, the Grand Chastelet, once the northern defence of
Paris against the Normans and the English, but at last changed into the headquarters of the
police--the Bow Street of the French capital. Two large towers, with conical tops over a portcullised
gateway, admitted the prisoners into a small square court, round which were ranged the offices
of the lieutenant of police, and the chambers of the law-officers of the crown. Part of the
building served as a prison for the vulgar crew of offenders--a kind of Newgate, or Tolbooth;
another was used as, and was called, the Morgue, where the dead bodies found in the Seine were
often carried; there was a room in it called Cæsar's chamber, where the good citizens of Paris
firmly believed that the great Julius once sat as provost of Paris, in a red robe and flowing
wig; and there was many an out-of-the-way nook and corner full of dust and parchments, and
rats and spiders. The lawyers of the Chastelet thought no small beer of themselves, it seems;
for they claimed the right of walking in processions before the members of the Parliament,
and immediately after the corporation of the capital. The unlucky wight who might chance to
be put in durance vile within these walls, was commonly well trounced and fined ere he was
allowed to depart; and next to the dreaded Bastile, the Grand Chastelet used to be looked on
with peculiar horror. At the Revolution it was one of the first feudal buildings demolished--not
a stone of the old pile remains; the Pont-au-Change had long before had its wooden piers changed
for noble stone ones, and on the site where this fortress stood is now the Place de Chatelet,
with a Napoleonic monument in the midst--a column inscribed with names of bloody battle-fields,
on its summit a golden wing-expanding Victory, and at its base four little impudent dolphins,
snorting out water into the buckets of the Porteurs d'Eau.

Behind the Chastelet stood the Grande Boucherie--the Leadenhall market of Paris an hundred
years ago; and near it, up a dirty street or two, was one of the finest churches of the capital,
dedicated to St Jacques. The lofty tower of this latter edifice (its body perished when the
Boucherie and the Chastelet disappeared) still rises in gloomy majesty above all the surrounding
buildings. It is as high as those of Notre Dame; and from its upper corners, enormous gargouilles--those
fantastic water-spouts of the middle ages--gape with wide-stretched jaws, but no longer send
down the washings of the roof on the innocent passengers. Hereabouts lived Nicholas Flamel,
the old usurer, who made money so fast that it was said he used to sup nightly with his Satanic
majesty, and who thereupon built part of the church to save his bacon. He was of opinion that
it was well to have the "mens sana in corpore sano"--that it was no joke to be burnt; and so
he stuck close to the church, taking care that himself and his wife, Pernelle, should have
a comfortable resting-place for their bones within the walls of St Jacques. When this was a
fashionable quarter of Paris, the court doctor and accoucheur did not disdain to reside in
it; for Jean Fernel, the medical attendant of Catharine de Medicis, lived and died within the
shade of this old tower. He was a fortunate fellow, a sort of Astley Cooper or Clarke in his
way, and Catharine used to give him 10,000 crowns, or something like L.6000, every time she
favoured France with an addition to the royal family. He and numerous other worthies mouldered
into dust within the precincts of St Jacques; but their remains have long since been scattered
to the winds; and where the church once stood is now an ignoble market for old clothes; the
abode of Jews and thieves.

After passing round the Grand Chastelet, and crossing the market-place, you might enter the
Rue St Denis, the great street of Paris in the time of the good King Henry, and you might walk
along under shelter of its houses, projecting story above story, till they nearly met at top,
for more than a mile. Before it was paved, the roadway was an intolerable quagmire, winter
and summer; and, after stones had been put down, there murmured along the middle a black gurgling
stream, charged with all the outpourings and filth of unnumbered houses. Over, or through this,
according as the fluid was low or high, you had to make your way, if you wanted to cross the
street and greet a friend; if you lived in the street and wished to converse with your opposite
neighbour, you had only to mount to the garret story, open the lattice window, and literally
shake hands with him, so near did the gables approach. The fronts of the houses were ornamented
with every device which the skilful carpenters of former times could invent: the beam-ends
were sculptured into queer little crouching figures of monkeys or angels, and all sorts of
diableries decorated the cornices that ran beneath the windows; there were no panes of glass,
such as we boast of in these degenerate times, but narrow latticed lights to let in the day,
and the wind, and the cold; while the roofs were covered commonly with shingles, or, in the
houses of the wealthy, with sheets of lead. Between each gable came forth a long water-spout,
and poured down a deluge into the gutter beneath; each gable-top was peaked into a fantastic
spiry point or flower, and the chimneys congregated into goodly companies amidst the roofs,
removed from the vulgar gaze or fastidious jests of the people below. So large were the fireplaces
in those rooms that could own them, and so ample were the chimney flues, that smoky houses
were unheard of: the staircases, it is true, enjoyed only a dubious ray, that served to prevent
you from breaking your neck in a rapid descent; but the apartments were generally of commodious
dimensions, and the tenements possessed many substantial comforts.

Once out of doors, you might proceed in all weather fearless of rain; the projecting upper
stories sheltered completely the sides of the street, and a stout cloth cloak was all that
was needed to save either sex from the inclemency of the seasons. At frequent intervals there
opened into the main street, side streets, and ruelles or alleys, which showed in comparison
like Gulliver in Brobdignag: up some of these ways a single horseman might be able to go; but
along others--and some of them remain to the present day--two stout citizens could never have
walked arm-in-arm. They looked like enormous cracks between a couple of buildings, rather than
as ways made for the convenience of locomotion: they were pervious, perhaps, to donkeys, but
not to the loaded packhorse--the great street was intended for that animal--coaches did not
exist, and the long narrow carts of the French peasantry, whenever they came into the city,
did not occupy much more space than the bags or packs of the universal carrier. To many of
these streets the most eccentric appellations were given; there was the Rue des Mauvaises Paroles--people
of ears polite had no business to go near it; the Rue Tire Chappe--a spot where those who objected
to be plucked by the vests, or to have their clothes pulled off their backs by importunate
accosters, need not present themselves; another in this quarter was called the Rue Tire-boudin.
Marie Stuart, when Queen of France, was riding, it is said, through it one day, and struck,
perhaps, by the looks of its inhabitants, asked what the street was called. The original appellation
was so indecent that an officer of her guards, with courtly presence of mind, veiled it under
its present title. One was known as the Rue Brise-miche, and the cleanliness of its inhabitants
might instantly be judged of: a fifth was the Rue Trousse-vache, and one of the shops in it
was adorned with an enormous sign of a red cow, with her tail sticking up in the air and her
head reared in rampant sauciness. A notorious gambler, Thibault-au-dé, well known for his skill
in loading dice, gave his name to one of these narrow veins of the town: Aubry, a wealthy butcher,
is still immortalized in another: and the Rue du Petit Hurleur probably commemorated some wicked
youngster, whose shouts were a greater nuisance to the neighbours than those of any of his
companions.

A wider kind of street was the Rue de la Ferronerie, opening into the Rue St Denis, below the
Church of the Innocents: it was the abode of all the tinkers and smiths of Paris, and had not
Henri IV. been in a particular hurry that day, when he was posting off to old Sully in the
Rue St Antoine, he had never gone this way, and Ravaillac, probably, had never been able to
lean into the carriage and stab the king. Just over the spot where the murder was committed,
the placid bust of the king still gazes on the busy scene beneath. The Rue de la Grande Truanderie,
which was above the Innocents, must have been the rendez-vous of all the thieves and beggars
of Paris, if there be any thing in a name: the old chronicles of the city relate, indeed, that
it took a long time to respectabilize its neighbourhood; and they add that the herds of rogues
and impostors who once lived in it took refuge, after their ejection, in the famous Cour des
Miracles, a little higher up the Rue St Denis. We must not venture into this, the choicest
preserve of Victor Hugo, whose graphic description of its wonders in his Notre Dame needs hardly
to be alluded to; but we may add, that there were several abodes of the same kind, all communicating
with the Rue St Denis, and all equally infamous in their day, though now tenanted only by quiet
button-makers and furniture-dealers. The real Puits d'Amour stood at the corner of the Rue
de la Grande Truanderie, and took its name in sad truth from a crossing of true love. In the
days of Philip Augustus, more than six hundred years ago, a beautiful young lady of the court,
Agnes Hellebik, whose father held an important post under the king, was inveigled into the
toils of love. The object of her affections, whether of noble birth or not, made her but a
sorry return for her confidence: he loved her a while, and her dreams of happiness were realized;
but by degrees his passion cooled, and at length he abandoned her. Stung with indignation,
and broken-hearted at this thwarting of her soul's desire, the unfortunate young creature fled
from her father's house, and betaking herself on a dark and stormy night to the brink of the
well, commended her spirit to her Maker, and ended her troubles beneath its waters. The name
of the Puits d'Amour was then given to the well; and no young maiden ever dared to draw water
from it after sunset, for fear of the spirit that dwelt unquietly within. The tradition was
always current in people's mouths; and three centuries after, a young man of the neighbourhood,
who had been jilted and mocked by an inconstant mistress, determined to bear his ills no longer,
so he rushed to the Puits, and took the fatal leap. The result was not what he anticipated:
he did not, it is true, jump into a courtly assembly of knights and gallants, but he could
not find water enough in it to drown him; while his mistress, on hearing of the mishap, hastened
to the well with a cord, and promising to compensate him for his former woes, drew him with
her fair hands safely into the upper regions. An inscription, in Gothic letters, was then placed
over the well:--

    "L'amour m'a refaict
    En 1525 tout-à-faict."

The fate of Agnes Hellebik was far preferable to that of another young girl who lived in this
quarter, indeed in the Rue Thibault-au-dé. Agnes du Rochier was the only daughter of one of
the wealthiest merchants of Paris, and was admired by all the neighbourhood for her beauty
and virtue. In 1403 her father died, leaving her the sole possessor of his wealth, and rumour
immediately disposed of her hand to all the young gallants of the quarter; but whether it was
that grief for the loss of her parent had turned her head, or that the gloomy fanaticism of
that time had worked with too fatal effect on her pure and inexperienced imagination, she took
not only marriage and the male sex into utter abomination, but resolved to quit the world for
ever, and to make herself a perpetual prisoner for religion's sake. She determined, in short,
to become what was then called a recluse, and as such to pass the remainder of her days in
a narrow cell built within the wall of a church. On the 5th of October, accordingly, when the
cell, only a few feet square, was finished in the wall of the church of St Opportune, Agnes
entered her final abode, and the ceremony of her reclusion began. The walls and pillars of
the sacred edifice had been hung with tapestry and costly cloths, tapers burned on every altar,
the clergy of the capital and the several religious communities thronged the church. The Bishop
of Paris, attended by his chaplains and the canons of Notre Dame, entered the choir, and celebrated
a pontifical mass: he then approached the opening of the cell, sprinkled it with holy water,
and after the poor young thing had bidden adieu to her friends and relations, ordered the masons
to fill up the aperture. This was done as strongly as stone and mortar could make it; nor was
any opening left, save only a small loophole through which Agnes might hear the offices of
the church, and receive the aliments given her by the charitable. She was eighteen years old
when she entered this living tomb, and she continued within it eighty years, till death terminated
her sufferings! Alas, for mistaken piety! Her wealth, which she gave to the church, and her
own personal exertions during so long a life, might have made her a blessing to all that quarter
of the city, instead of remaining an useless object of compassion to the few, and of idle wonder
to the many.

Another entombment, almost as bad, occurred in the Rue St Denis, only five or six years ago.
The cess-pools of modern Parisian houses are generally deep chambers, and sometimes wells,
cut in the limestone rock on which the city stands: and in the absence of a good method of
drainage, are cleaned out only once in every two or three years, according to their size. Meanwhile,
they continue to receive all the filth of the building. One night, a large cess-pool had been
emptied, and the aperture, which was in the common passage of the house on the ground floor,
had been left open till the inspector appointed by the police should come round and see that
the work had been properly executed. He came early in the morning, enquired carelessly of the
porter if all was right, and ordered the stone covering to be fastened down. This was done
amid the usual noise and talking of the workmen; and they went their way. That same afternoon,
one of the lodgers in the house, a young man, was missed: days after days elapsed, and nothing
was heard of him: his friends conjectured that he had drowned himself, but the tables of the
Morgue never bore his body: and their despair was only equalled by their astonishment at the
absence of every clue to his fate. On a particular evening, however, about three weeks after
his disappearance, the porter was sitting at the door of his lodge, and the house as well as
the street was unusually quiet, when he heard a faint groan somewhere beneath his feet. After
a short interval he heard another; and being superstitious, got up, put his chair within the
lodge, shut the door, and set about his work. At night he mentioned the circumstance to his
wife, and going out with her into the passage, they had not stood there long before again a
groan was heard. The good woman crossed herself and fell on her knees; but her husband, suspecting
now that all was not right, and thinking that an attempt at infanticide had been made, by throwing
a child's body down one of the passages leading to the cess-pool, (no uncommon occurrence in
Paris,) resolved to call in the police. He did so without loss of time, the heavy stone covering
was removed, and one of the attendants stooping down and lowering a lantern, as long as the
stench would permit him, saw at the bottom, and at a considerable depth, something like a human
form leaning against the side of the receptacle. Ropes and ladders were now immediately procured;
two men went down, and in a few minutes brought up a body--it was that of the unfortunate young
man who had been so long missing! Life was not quite extinct, for some motion of the limbs
was perceptible, there was even one last low groan, but then all animation ceased for ever.
The appearance of the body was most dreadful; the face was a livid green colour, the trunk
looked like that of a man drowned, and kept long beneath the water, all brown and green--one
of the feet had completely disappeared--the other was nearly half decomposed and gone; the
hands were dreadfully lacerated, and told of a desperate struggle to escape: worms were crawling
about; all was putrid and loathsome. How did this unfortunate young man come into so dreadful
a position? was the question that immediately occurred; and the only answer that could be given
was, that on the night of the cess-pool being emptied, the porter remembered this young man
coming home very late, or rather early in the morning. He himself had forgotten to warn him
of the aperture being uncovered, indeed he supposed that it would have been sufficiently seen
by the lights left burning at its edge;--these had probably been blown out by the wind, and
the young man had thus fallen in. That life should have been supported so long under such circumstances,
seems almost incredible: but it is no less curious than true; for the porter was tried before
the Correctional Tribunal for inadvertent homicide, the facts were adduced in evidence, and
carelessness having been proved, he was sentenced to imprisonment for several weeks, and to
a heavy fine.

Of churches and religious establishments, there were plenty in and about the Rue St Denis.
Besides the great church of St Jacques, mentioned before, there were in the street itself the
churches of the Holy Sepulchre, of St Leu, and St Gilles; of the Innocents; of the Saviour;
and of St Jacques de l'Hôpital: while of conventual institutions, there were the Hospitals
of St Catharine; of the Holy Trinity; of the Filles de St Magloire; of the Filles Dieu; of
the Community of St Chaumont; of the Sœurs de Charité; and of the great monastery of St Lazare.
The fronts, or other considerable portions of those buildings, were all visible in the street,
and added greatly to its antiquated appearance. The long irregular lines of gable roofs on
either side, converging from points high above the spectator's head, until they met or crossed
in a dim perspective, near the horizon, were broken here and there by the pointed front, or
the tapering spire of a church or convent. A solemn gateway protruded itself at intervals into
the street, and, with its flanking turrets and buttresses, gave broad masses of shade in perpendicular
lines, strongly contrasted with the horizontal or diagonal patches of dark colour caused by
the houses. At early morn and eve, a shrill tinkling of bells warned the neighbours of the
sacred duties of many a secluded penitent, or admonished them that it was time to send up their
own orisons to God. Before mid-day had arrived, and soon after it had passed, the deeper tones
of a bourdon, from some of the parochial churches, invited the citizens to the sacrifice of
the mass or the canticles of vespers. Not seldom the throngs of busy wordlings were forced
to separate and give room to some holy procession, which, with glittering cross at the head,
with often tossed and sweetly smelling censers at the side, with white-robed chanting acolyths,
and reverend priests, in long line behind, came forth to take its way to some holy edifice.
The zealous citizens would suspend their avocations for a while, would repeat a reverential
prayer as the holy men went by, and then return to the absorbing calls of business, not unbenefited
by the recollections just awakened in their minds. On the eves and on the mornings of holy
festivals, business was totally suspended; the bells, great and small, rang forth their silvery
sounds; the churches were crowded, the chapels glittered with blazing lights; the prayers of
the priests and people rose with the incense before the high altar; the solemn organ swelled
its full tones responsive to the loud-voiced choir; the curates thundered from the pulpits,
to the edification of charitable congregations; and after all had been prostrated in solemn
adoration of the Divine presence, the citizens would pour out into the street, and repair,
some to their homes, some to the Palace of the Tournelles, with its towers and gardens guarded
by the Bastille; others to the Louvre or to the Pré-aux-clercs, and the fields by the river
side; others would stroll up the hill of Montmartre; and some in boats would brave the dangers
of the Seine! On other and sadder occasions, the inhabitants of the Rue St Denis would quit
their houses in earnestly talking groups, and would adjourn to the open space in front of the
Halles. Here, on the top of an octagonal tower, some twenty feet high, and covered with a conical
spire, between the openings of pointed arches, might be seen criminals with their heads and
hands protruding through the wooden collar of the pillory. The guard of the provost, or the
lieutenant of police, would keep off the noisy throng below, and the goodwives would discuss
among themselves the enormities of the coin-clipper, the cut-purse, the incendiary, or the
unjust dealer, who were exposed on those occasions for their delinquencies; while the offenders
themselves, would--a few of them--hang down their heads, and close their eyes in the unsufferable
agony of shame; but by far the greater number would shout forth words of bold defiance or indecent
ribaldry, would protrude the mocking tongue, or spit forth curses with dire volubility. Then
would rise the shouts of gamins, then would come the thick volley of eggs, fish-heads, butcher's-offal,
and all the garbage of the market, aimed unerringly by many a strenuous arm at the heads of
the culprits; and then the soldiers with their pertuisanes would make quick work among the
legs of the retreating crowd, and the jailers would apply the ready lash to the backs of the
hardened criminals aloft; and thus, the hour's exhibition ended, and the "king's justice" satisfied,
away would the criminals be led, some on a hurdle to Montfauçon, and there hung on its ample
gibbet, amid the rattling bones of other wretches; some would be hurried back to the Chastelet,
or other prisons; and others would be sent off to work, chained to the oars of the royal galleys.

This was a common amusement of the idlers of this quarter: but the passions of the mob, if
they needed stronger excitement, had to find a scene of horrid gratification on the Place de
Grève, opposite the Hotel de Ville, where at rare intervals a heretic would be burnt, a murderer
hung, or a traitor quartered; but this spot of bloody memory lies far from the Rue St Denis,
and we are not now called upon to reveal its terrible recollections: let us turn back to our
good old street.

One of the most curious objects in it was the Church of the Innocents, with its adjoining cemetery,
once the main place of interment for all the capital. The church lay at the north-eastern end
of what is now the Marché des Innocents, and against it was erected the fountain which now
adorns the middle of the market, and which was the work of the celebrated sculptor, Jean Goujon,
and his colleague, the architect, Pierre Lescot. The former is said to have been seated at
it, giving some last touches to one of the tall and graceful nymphs that adorn its high arched
sides, on the day of the Massacre of St Bartholomew, when he was killed by a random shot from
a Catholic zealot. The simple inscription which it still bears, FONTIUM NYMPHIS, is in better
taste than that of any other among the numerous fountains of the French capital. The church
itself (of which not the slightest vestige now remains) was not a good specimen of mediæval
architecture, although it was large and richly endowed. It was founded by Philip Augustus,
when he ordered the Jews to be expelled from his dominions, and seized on their estates--one
of the most nefarious actions committed by a monarch of France. The absurd accusation, that
the Jews used periodically to crucify and torture Christian children, was one of the most plausible
pretexts employed by the rapacious king on this occasion; and, as a kind of testimonial that
such had been his excuse, he founded this church; dedicated it to the Holy Innocents; and transferred
hither the remains of a boy, named Richard, said to have been sacrificed at Pontoise by some
unfortunate Jews, who expiated the pretended crime by the most horrible torments. St Richard's
remains, (for he was canonized,) worked numerous miracles in the Church of the Innocents, or
rather in the churchyard, where a tomb was erected over them; and so great was their reputation,
that tradition says, the English, on evacuating Paris in the 15th century, carried off with
them all but the little saint's head. Certain it is, that nothing but the head remained amongst
the relics of this parish; and equally certain is it, that no Christian innocents have been
sacrificed by those "circumcised dogs" either before or since, whether in France or England,
or any other part of the world. It remained for the dishonest credulity of the present century,
to witness the disgraceful spectacle of a French consul at Damascus, assisting at the torturing
of some Jewish merchants under a similar accusation, and assuring his government of his belief
in the confessions extorted by these inhuman means; and of many a party journal in Paris accrediting
and re-echoing the tale. Had not British humanity intervened in aid of British policy, France
had made this visionary accusation the ground of an armed intervention in Syria. The false
accusers of the Jews of Damascus have indeed been punished; but the French consul, the Count
de Ratti-Menton, has since been rewarded by his government with a high promotion in the diplomatic
department!

Once more, "a truce to digression," let us see what the ancient cemetery of the Innocents was
like. Round an irregular four-sided space, about five hundred feet by two, ran a low cloister-like
building, called Les Charniers, or the Charnel Houses. It had originally been a cloister surrounding
the churchyard; but, so convenient had this place of sepulture been found, from its situation
in the heart of Paris, that the remains of mortality increased in most rapid proportion within
its precincts, and it was continually found necessary to transfer the bones of long-interred,
and long-forgotten bodies, to the shelter of the cloisters. Here, then, they were piled up
in close order--the bones below and the skulls above; they reached in later times to the very
rafters of these spacious cloisters all round, and heaps of skulls and bones lay in unseemly
groups on the grass in the midst of the graveyard. At one corner of the church was a small
grated window, where a recluse, like her of St Opportune, had worn away forty-six years of
her life, after one year's confinement as a preparatory experiment; and within the church was
a splendid brass tomb, commemorating this refinement of the monastic virtues. At various spots
about the cemetery, were erected obelisks and crosses of different dates, while against the
walls of the church and cloister were affixed, in motley and untidy confusion, unnumbered tablets
and other memorials of the dead. The suppression of this cemetery, just at the commencement
of the Revolution, was a real benefit to the capital; and when the contents of the yard and
its charnel-houses were removed to the catacombs south of the city, it was calculated that
the remains of two millions of human beings rattled down the deep shafts of the stone pits
to their second interment. In place of the cemetery, we now find the wooden stalls of the Covent
Garden of Paris; low, dirty, unpainted, ill-built, badly-drained, stinking, and noisy; and
their tenants are not better than themselves. Like their neighbours, the famous Poissardes,
the Dames de la Halle as they are styled, are the quintessence of all that is disgusting in
Paris. Covent Garden is worth a thousand of such markets, and Père la Chaise is an admirable
substitute for the Cemetery of the Innocents.

High up in the Rue de Faubourg St Denis, which is only a continuation of the main street, just
as Knightsbridge is of Piccadilly, stand the remains of the great convent and maladrerie of
St Lazarus. In this religious house, all persons attacked with leprosy were received in former
days, and either kept for life, if incurable, or else maintained until they were freed from
that loathsome disease. From what cause we know not, (except that the House of St Lazarus was
the nearest of any religious establishment to the walls of the capital,) the kings of France
always made a stay of three days within its walls on their solemn inauguratory entrance into
Paris, and their bodies always lay in state here before they were conveyed to the Abbey Church
of St Denis. There was no lack of stiff ceremonial on these occasions; and, doubtless, the
good fathers of the convent did not receive all the court within their walls without rubbing
a little gold off the rich habits of the nobles. The king, on arriving at the Convent of St
Lazare, proceeded to a part of the house allotted for this purpose, and called Le Logis du
Roy, where, in a chamber of state, he took his seat beneath a canopy, surrounded by the princes
of the blood-royal. The chancellor of France stood behind his majesty, to furnish him with
replies to the different deputations that used to come with congratulatory addresses, and the
receptions then commenced. They used to last from seven in the morning, without intermission,
till four or five in the afternoon; there were the lawyers of the Chastelet, the Court of Aids,
the Court of Accounts, and the Parliament, to say nothing of the city authorities and other
constituted bodies. The addresses were no short unmeaning things, like those uttered in our
poor cold times, but good long-winded harangues, some in French, some in Latin, and they went
on, one after the other, for three days consecutively. On the third day, when the royal patience
must have been wellnigh exhausted, and the chancellor's talents at reply worn tolerably threadbare,
the king would rise, and mounting on horseback, would proceed to the cathedral church of Notre
Dame, down the Rue St Denis. One of the best recorded of these royal entries is that of Louis
XI. On this occasion, the king, setting out from a suburban residence in the Faubourg St Honoré,
got along the northern side of Paris to the Convent of St Lazare; and thence, after the delay
and the harangues of the three days--the real original glorious three days of the French monarchy--proceeded
to the Porte St Denis. Here a herald met the monarch, and after the keys of the city had been
presented by the provost, with long speeches and replies, the former officer introduced to
his majesty five young ladies, all richly clad, and mounted on horses richly caparisoned, their
housings bearing the arms of the city of Paris. Each young damsel represented an allegorical
personage, and the initials of the names of their characters made up the word Paris. They each
harangued the king, and their speeches, says an old chronicle, seemed "very agreeable" to the
royal ears. Around the king, as he rode through the gateway, were the princes and highest nobles
of the land--the Dukes of Orleans, Burgundy, Bourbon, and Cleves: the Count of Charolois, eldest
son of the Duke of Burgundy; the Counts of Angoulesme, St Paul, Dunois, and others; with, as
a chronicle of the time relates, "autres comtes, barons, chevaliers, capitaines, et force noblesse,
en très bel ordre et posture." All of these were mounted on horses of price, richly caparisoned,
and covered with the finest housings; some were of cloth of gold furred with sable, others
were of velvet or damask furred with ermine; all were enriched with precious stones, and to
many were attached bells of silver gilt, with other "enjolivements." Over the gateway was a
large ship, the armorial bearing of the city, and within it were a number of allegorical personages,
with one who represented Louis XI. himself; in the street immediately within the gate was a
party of savages and satyrs, who executed a mock-fight in honour of the approach of royalty.
A little lower down came forth a troop of young women representing syrens; an old chronicle
calls them, "Plusieurs belles filles accoustrées en syrenes, nues, lesquelles, en faisant voir
leur beau sein, chantoient de petits motets de bergères fort doux et charmans." Near where
these damsels stood was a fountain which had pipes running with milk, wine, and hypocras; at
the side of the Church of the Holy Trinity was a tableau-vivant of the Passion of our Saviour,
including a crucified Christ and two thieves, represented, as the chronicle states, "par personnages
sans parler." A little further on was a hunting party, with dogs and a hind, making a tremendous
noise with hautboys and cors-de-chasse. The butchers on the open place near the Chastelet,
had raised some lofty scaffolds, and on them had erected a representation of the Bastille or
Chateau of Dieppe. Just as the king passed by, a desperate combat was going on between the
French besieging this chateau and the English holding garrison within; "the latter," adds the
chronicle, "having been taken prisoners, had all their throats cut." Before the gate of the
Chastelet, there were the personifications of several illustrious heroes; and on the Pont-au-Change,
which was carpeted below, hung with arms at the sides, and canopied above for the occasion,
stood the fowlers with their two hundred dozens of birds, ready to fly them as soon as the
royal charger should stamp on the first stone. Such was a royal entry in those days of iron rule.

Before Louis XI.'s father, Charles VII., had any reasonable prospect of reigning in Paris as
king, the English troops had to be driven out of the capital; and when the French forces had
scaled the walls, and entered the city, A.D. 1436, the 1500 Englishmen who defended the place,
had but little mercy shown them. Seeing that the game was lost, Sir H. Willoughby, captain
of Paris, shut himself up with a part of the troops in the Bastille, accompanied by the Bishop
of Therouenne, and Morhier, the provost of the city. The people rose to the cry of "Sainct
Denys, Vive le noble Roy de France!" The constable of France, the Duke de Richemont, and the
Bastard of Orleans, led them on; those troops that had been shut out of the Bastille, tried
to make their way up the Rue St Denis, to the northern gateway, and so to escape on the road
to Beauvais and England but the inhabitants stretched chains across the street, and men, women,
and children, showered down upon them from the windows, chairs, tables, logs of wood, stones,
and even boiling water; while others rushed in from behind and from the side streets, with
arms in their hands, and the massacre of all the English fugitives ensued. A short time after,
Sir H. Willoughby, and the garrison of the Bastille, not receiving succours from the commanders
of the English forces, surrendered the fortress, and were allowed to retire to Rouen. As they
marched out of Paris, the Bishop of Therouenne accompanied them, and the populace followed
the troops, shouting out at the Bishop--"The fox! the fox!"--and at the English, "The tail!
the tail!"

Another departure of a foreign garrison from Paris, took place in 1594, and this time in peaceable
array, by the Rue St Denis. When Henry IV. had obtained possession of his capital, there remained
in it a considerable body of Spanish troops, who had been sent into France to aid the chiefs
of the League, and they were under the command of the Duke de Feria. The reaction in the minds
of the Parisians, after the misery of their siege, had been too sudden and too complete, to
give the Spaniards any hope of holding out against the king; a capitulation was therefore agreed
upon, the foreign forces were allowed to march out with the honours of war, and they were escorted
with their baggage as far as the frontier. The king and his principal officers took post within
the rooms over the Porte St Denis--then a square turreted building, with a pointed and portcullised
gate and drawbridge beneath--to see the troops march out, and he stationed himself at the window
looking down the street. First came some companies of Neapolitan infantry, with drums beating,
standards flying, arms on their shoulders, but without having their matches lighted. Then came
the Spanish Guards, in the midst of whom were the Duke de Feria, Don Diego d'Ibara, and Don
Juan Baptista Taxis, all mounted on spirited Spanish chargers; while behind them marched the
battalions of the Lansquenets, and the Walloons. As each company came up to the gateway, the
soldiers, marching by fours, raised their eyes to the king, took off their headpieces, and
bowed; the officers did the same, and Henry returned the salutation with the greatest courtesy.
He was particular in showing this politeness, in the most marked manner, to the Duke de Feria
and his noble companions, and when they were within hearing, cried out aloud, "Recommend me
to your master, but never show your faces here again!" Some of the more obnoxious members of
the League were allowed to retire with the Spaniards; and in the evening, bonfires were lighted
in all the streets, and the Te Deum was sung on all the public places. The mediæval glory of
the Porte St Denis vanished in the time of Louis XIV., where he unfortified the city, which
one of his successors has taken such pains again to imprison within stone walls, and the present
triumphal arch was erected upon its site. This modern edifice, it is well known, served for
the entrance of Charles X. from Rheims, and, shortly after, for a post whence the trumpery
patriots of 1830 contrived to annoy some of the cavalry who were fighting in the cause of the
legitimacy and the true liberties of France. Many a barricade and many a skirmish has the Rue
St Denis since witnessed!

All the churches have disappeared from the Rue St Denis except that of St Leu and St Gilles,
a small building of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries: all the convents have been rased
to the ground except that of St Lazare. To this a far different destination has been given
from what it formerly enjoyed: it is now the great female prison of the capital; and within
its walls all the bread required for the prisons of Paris is baked, all the linen is made and
mended. The prison consists of three distinct portions: one allotted for carrying on the bread
and linen departments: a second for the detention of female criminals before conviction, or
for short terms of imprisonment; and in this various light manufactures, such as the making
of baskets, straw-plait, and the red phosphorus-match boxes, are carried on: the third is an
hospital and house of detention for the prostitutes of the capital. We were once taken all
through this immense establishment by the governor, who had the kindness to accompany us, and
to explain every thing in person--a favour not often granted to foreigners--and a strong impression
did the scenes we then saw leave. In the first two departments every thing was gloomy, orderly,
and quiet: the prisoners were much fewer than we had expected--not above two hundred--many
of them, however, were mere children; but the matrons were good kind of women and the work
of reformation was going on rapidly to counteract the effects of early crime. In the third,
though equal strictness of conduct on the part of the superiors prevailed, the behaviour of
the inmates subjected to control was far different. The great majority had been confined there
as hospital patients, not as offenders against the law, and they were divided into wards, according
to their sanatory condition. Here they were very numerous; and a melancholy thing it was to
see hundreds of wretched creatures wandering about their spacious rooms, or sitting up in their
beds, with haggard looks, dishevelled hair, hardly any clothing, and a sort of reckless gaiety
in their manner that spoke volumes as to their real condition. The régime of this prison-hospital
is found, however, to be on the whole most salutary: the seeds of good are sown with a few;
the public health, as well as the public morals, has been notably improved; and from the time
when a young painter employed in the prison was decoyed into this portion of it and killed
within a few hours, the occurrence of deeds of violence within its walls has been very rare.

From the top of the Faubourg St Denis, all through the suburb of La Chapelle, the long line
of modern habitations extends, without offering any points of historical interest. It is, indeed,
a very commonplace, everyday kind of road, which hardly any Englishman that has jumbled along
in the Messageries Royales can fail of recollecting. Nothing poetical, nothing romantic, was
ever known to take place between the Barrière de St Denis and the town where the abbey stands.
We know, however, of an odd occurrence upon this ground, towards the end of the thirteenth
century, (we were not alive then, gentle reader,) strikingly illustrative of the superstition
of the times. In 1274, the church of St Gervais, in Paris, was broken into one night by some
sacrilegious dog, who ran off with the golden pix, containing the consecrated wafer or host.
Not thinking himself safe within the city, away he went for St Denis--got without the city
walls in safety, and made off as fast as he could for the abbatial town. Before arriving there,
he thought he would have a look at the contents of the precious vessel, when, on his opening
the lid, out jumped the holy wafer, up it flew into the air over his head, and there it kept
dodging about, and bobbing up and down, behind the affrightened thief, and following him wherever
he went. He rushed into the town of St Denis, but there was the wafer coming after him, and
just above his head; whichever way he turned, there was the flying wafer. It was now broad
daylight, and some of the inhabitants perceived the miracle. This was immediately reported
by them to the abbot of the monastery. The holy father and his monks sallied forth; all saw
the wafer as plain as they saw each others' shaven crowns. The man was immediately arrested;
the pix was found on him, and the abbot, as a feudal seigneur, having the right of life and
death within his own fief, had him hung up to the nearest tree within five minutes. The abbot
then sent word to the Bishop of Paris of what had occurred; and the prelate, attended by the
curates and clergy of the capital, went to St Denis to witness the miracle. But wonders were
not to cease; there they found the abbot and monks looking up into the air; there was the wafer
sticking up somewhere under the sun, and none of them could devise how they were to get it
down again. The monks began singing canticles and litanies; the Parisian clergy did the same;
still the wafer would not move a hair's breadth. At last they resolved to adjourn to the Abbey
Church; and so they formed themselves into procession, and stepped forwards. The monks had
reached the abbey door, the bishop and his clergy were following behind, and the clergy of
St Gervais were just under the spot where the wafer was suspended, when, presto, down it popped
into the hands of the little red-nosed curate. "Its mine!" cried the curate: "I'll have it!"
shouted the bishop: "I wish you may get it," roared the abbot--and a regular scramble took
place. But the little curate held his prize fast; his vicars stuck to him like good men and
true; and they carried off their prize triumphant. The bishop and the abbot drew up a solemn
memorial and covenant on the spot, whereby the wafer was legally consigned to its original
consecrator and owner, the curate of St Gervais; and it was agreed that every 1st of September,
the day of the miracle, a solemn office and procession of the Holy Sacrament should be celebrated
within his church. The reverend father Du Breul, the grave historian of Paris, adds: "L'histoire
du dit miracle est naifvement depeinte en une vitre de la chapelle Sainct Pierre d'icelle église,
où sont aussi quelques vers François, contenans partie d'icelle histoire."

THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT.

In days of old it was the remark of more than one philosopher, that, if it were possible to
exhibit virtue in a personal form, and clothed with attributes of sense, all men would unite
in homage to her supremacy. The same thing is true of other abstractions, and especially of
the powers which work by social change. Could these powers be revealed to us in any symbolic
incarnation--were it possible that, but for one hour, the steadfast march of their tendencies,
their promises, and their shadowy menaces, could be made apprehensible to the bodily eye--we
should be startled, and oftentimes appalled, at the grandeur of the apparition. In particular,
we may say that the advance of civilization, as it is carried forward for ever on the movement
continually accelerated of England and France, were it less stealthy and inaudible than it
is, would fix, in every stage, the attention of the inattentive and the anxieties of the careless.
Like the fabulous music of the spheres, once allowed to break sonorously upon the human ear,
it would render us deaf to all other sounds. Heard or not heard, however, marked or not marked,
the rate of our advance is more and more portentous. Old things are passing away. Every year
carries us round some obstructing angle, laying open suddenly before us vast reaches of fresh
prospect, and bringing within our horizon new agencies by which civilization is henceforth
to work, and new difficulties against which it is to work; other forces for co-operation, other
resistances for trial. Meantime the velocity of these silent changes is incredibly aided by
the revolutions, both moral and scientific, in the machinery of nations; revolutions by which
knowledge is interchanged, power propagated, and the methods of communication multiplied. And
the vast aerial arches by which these revolutions mount continually to the common zenith of
Christendom, so as to force themselves equally upon the greatest of nations and the humblest,
express the aspiring destiny by which, already and irresistibly, they are coming round upon
all other tribes and families of men, however distant in position, or alien by system and organization.
The nations of the planet, like ships of war manœuvring prelusively to some great engagement,
are silently taking up their positions, as it were, for future action and reaction, reciprocally
for doing and suffering. And, in this ceaseless work of preparation or of noiseless combination,
France and England are seen for ever in the van. Whether for evil or for good, they must be
in advance. And if it were possible to see the relative positions of all Christendom, its several
divisions, expressed as if on the monuments of Persepolis by endless evolutions of cities in
procession or of armies advancing, we should be awakened to the full solemnity of our duties
by seeing two symbols flying aloft for ever in the head of nations--two recognizances for hope
or for fear--the roses of England and the lilies of France.

Reflections such as these furnish matter for triumphal gratulation, but also for great depression:
and in the enormity of our joint responsibilities, we French and English have reason to forget
the grandeur of our separate stations. It is fit that we should keep alive these feelings,
and continually refresh them, by watching the everlasting motions of society, by sweeping the
moral heavens for ever with our glasses in vigilant detection of new phenomena, and by calling
to a solemn audit, from time to time, the national acts which are undertaken, or the counsels
which in high places are avowed.

Amongst these acts and these counsels none justify a more anxious attention than such as come
forward in the senate. It is true that great revolutions may brood over us for a long period
without awakening any murmur or echo in Parliament; of which we have an instance in Puseyism,
which is a power of more ominous capacities than the gentleness of its motions would lead men
to suspect, and is well fitted (as hereafter we may show) to effect a volcanic explosion--such
as may rend the Church of England by schisms more extensive and shattering than those which
have recently afflicted the Church of Scotland. Generally, however, Parliament becomes, sooner
or later, a mirror to the leading phenomena of the times. These phenomena, to be valued thoroughly,
must be viewed, indeed, from different stations and angles. But one of these aspects is that
which they assume under the legislative revision of the people. It is more than ever requisite
that each session of Parliament should be searched and reviewed in the capital features of
its legislation. Hereafter we may attempt this duty more elaborately. For the present we shall
confine ourselves to a hasty survey of some few principal measures in the late session which
seem important to our social progress.

We shall commence our review by the fewest possible words on the paramount nuisance of the
day--viz. the corn-law agitation. This is that question which all men have ceased to think
sufferable. This is that "mammoth" nuisance of our times by which "the gaiety of nations is
eclipsed." We are thankful that its "damnable iterations" have now placed it beyond the limits
of public toleration. No man hearkens to such debates any longer--no man reads the reports
of such debates: it is become criminal to quote them; and recent examples of torpor beyond
all torpor, on occasion of Cobden meetings amongst the inflammable sections of our population,
have shown--that not the poorest of the poor are any longer to be duped, or to be roused out
of apathy, by this intolerable fraud. Full of "gifts and lies" is the false fleeting Association
of these Lancashire Cottoneers. But its gifts are too windy, and its lies are too ponderous.
To the Association is "given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies;" and out of this
mouth issues "fire," it is true, against all that is excellent in the land, but also "smoke"--as
the consummation of its overtures. During many reigns of the Cæsars, a race of swindlers infested
the Roman court, technically known as "sellers of smoke," and often punished under that name.
They sold, for weighty considerations of gold, castles in the air, imaginary benefices, ideal
reversions; and, in short, contracted wholesale or retail for the punctual delivery of unadulterated
moonshine. Such a dealer, such a contractor, is the Anti-Corn-Law Association; and for such
it has always been known amongst intelligent men. But its character has now diffused itself
among the illiterate: and we believe it to be the simple truth at this moment, that every working
man, whose attention has at any time been drawn to the question, is now ready to take his stand
upon the following answer:--"We, that is our order, Mr Cobden, are not very strong in faith.
Our faith in the Association is limited. So much, however, by all that reaches us, we are disposed
to believe--viz. that ultimately you might succeed in reducing the price of a loaf, by three
parts in forty-eight, which is one sixteenth; with what loss to our own landed order, and with
what risk to the national security in times of war or famine, is no separate concern of ours.
On the other hand, Mr Cobden, in your order there are said to be knaves in ambush; and we take
it, that the upshot of the change will be this: We shall save three farthings in a shilling's
worth of flour; and the honest men of your order--whom candour forbid that we should reckon
at only twenty-five per cent on the whole--will diminish our wages simply by that same three
farthings in a shilling; but the knaves (we are given to understand) will take an excuse out
of that trivial change to deduct four, five, or six farthings; they will improve the occasion
in evangelical proportions--some sixty-fold, some seventy, and some a hundred."

This is the settled practical faith of those hard-working men, who care not to waste their
little leisure upon the theory of the corn-laws. It is this practical result only which concerns
us; for as to the speculative logic of the case, as a question for economists, we, who have
so often discussed it in this journal, (which journal, we take it upon us to say, has, from
time to time, put forward or reviewed every conceivable argument on the corn question,) must
really decline to re-enter the arena, and actum agere, upon any occasion ministered by Mr Cobden.
Very frankly, we disdain to do so; and now, upon quitting the subject, we will briefly state why.

Mr Cobden, as we hear and believe, is a decent man--that is to say, upon any ground not connected
with politics; equal to six out of any ten manufacturers you will meet in the Queen's high
road--whilst of the other four not more than three will be found conspicuously his superiors.
He is certainly, in the senate, not what Lancashire rustics mean by a hammil sconce;[28] or,
according to a saying often in the mouth of our French emigrant friends in former times, he
"could not have invented the gun-powder, though perhaps he might have invented the hair-powder."
Still, upon the whole, we repeat, that Mr Cobden is a decent man, wherever he is not very indecent.
Is he therefore a decent man on this question of the corn-laws? So far from it, that we now
challenge attention to one remarkable fact. All the world knows how much he has talked upon
this particular topic; how he has itinerated on its behalf; how he has perspired under its
business. Is there a fortunate county in England which has yet escaped his harangues? Does
that happy province exist which has not reverberated his yells? Doubtless, not--and yet mark
this: Not yet, not up to the present hour, (September 20, 1843,) has Mr Cobden delivered one
argument properly and specially applicable to the corn question. He has uttered many things
offensively upon the aristocracy; he has libelled the lawgivers; he has insulted the farmers;
he has exhausted the artillery of political abuse: but where is the economic artillery which
he promised us, and which, (strange to say!) from the very dulness of his theme making it a
natural impossibility to read him, most people are willing to suppose that he has, after one
fashion or other, actually discharged. The Corn-League benefits by its own stupidity. Not being
read, every leaguer has credit for having uttered the objections which, as yet, he never did
utter. Hence comes the popular impression, that from Mr Cobden have emanated arguments, of
some quality or other, against the existing system. True, there are arguments in plenty on
the other side, and pretty notorious arguments; but, pendente lite, and until these opposite
pleas are brought forward, it is supposed that the Cobden pleas have a brief provisional existence--they
are good for the moment. Not at all. We repeat that, as to economic pleas, none of any kind,
good or bad, have been placed on the record by any orator of that faction; whilst all other
pleas, keen and personal as they may appear, are wholly irrelevant to any real point at issue.
In illustration of what we say, one (and very much the most searching) of Mr Cobden's questions
to the farmers, was this--"Was not the object," he demanded, "was not the very purpose of all
corn-laws alike--simply to keep up the price of grain? Well; had the English corn-laws accomplished
that object? Had they succeeded in that purpose? Notoriously they had not; confessedly they
had failed; and every farmer in the corn districts would avouch that often he had been brought
to the brink of ruin by prices ruinously low." Now, we pause not to ask, why, if the law already
makes the prices of corn ruinously low, any association can be needed to make it lower? What
we wish to fix attention upon, is this assumption of Mr Cobden's, many times repeated, that
the known object and office of our corn-law, under all its modifications, has been to elevate
the price of our corn; to sustain it at a price to which naturally it could not have ascended.
Many sound speculators on this question we know to have been seriously perplexed by this assertion
of Mr Cobden's; and others, we have heard, not generally disposed to view that gentleman's
doctrines with favour, who insist upon it, that, in mere candour, we must grant this particular
postulate. "Really," say they, "that cannot be refused him; the law was for the purpose he
assigns; its final cause was, as he tells us, to keep up artificially the price of our domestic
corn-markets. So far he is right. But his error commences in treating this design as an unfair
one, and, secondly, in denying that it has been successful. It has succeeded; and it ought
to have succeeded. The protection sought for our agriculture was no more than it merited; and
that protection has been faithfully realized."

    [28] A hammil sconce, or light of the hamlet, is the
    picturesque expression in secluded parts of Lancashire
    for the local wise man, or village counsellor.

We, however, vehemently deny Mr Cobden's postulate in toto. He is wrong, not merely as others
are wrong in the principle of refusing this protection, not merely on the question of fact
as to the reality of this protection, (to enter upon which points would be to adopt that hateful
discussion which we have abjured;) but, above all, he is wrong in assigning to corn-laws, as
their end and purpose, an absolute design of sustaining prices. To raise prices is an occasional
means of the corn-laws, and no end at all. In one word, what is the end of the corn-laws? It
is, and ever has been, to equalize the prospects of the farmer from year to year, with the
view, and generally with the effect, of drawing into the agricultural service of the nation,
as nearly as possible, the same amount of land at one time as at another. This is the end;
and this end is paramount. But the means to that end must lie, according to the accidents of
the case, alternately through moderate increase of price, or moderate diminution of price.
The besetting oversight, in this instance, is the neglect of the one great peculiarity affecting
the manufacture of corn--viz. its inevitable oscillation as to quantity, consequently as to
price, under the variations of the seasons. People talk, and encourage mobs to think, that
Parliaments cause, and that Parliaments could heal if they pleased, the evil of fluctuation
in grain. Alas! the evil is as ancient as the weather, and, like the disease of poverty, will
cleave to society for ever. And the way in which a corn-law--that is, a restraint upon the
free importation of corn--affects the case, is this:--Relieving the domestic farmer from that
part of his anxiety which points to the competition of foreigners, it confines it to the one
natural and indefeasible uncertainty lying in the contingencies of the weather. Releasing him
from all jealousy of man, it throws him, in singleness of purpose, upon an effort which cannot
be disappointed, except by a power to which, habitually, he bows and resigns himself. Secure,
therefore, from all superfluous anxieties, the farmer enjoys, from year to year, a pretty equal
encouragement in distributing the employments of his land. If, through the dispensations of
Providence, the quantity of his return falls short, he knows that some rude indemnification
will arise in the higher price. If, in the opposite direction, he fears a low price, it comforts
him to know that this cannot arise for any length of time but through some commensurate excess
in quantity. This, like other severities of a natural or general system, will not, and cannot,
go beyond a bearable limit. The high price compensates grossly the defect of quantity; the
overflowing quantity in turn compensates grossly the low price. And thus it happens that, upon
any cycle of ten years, taken when you will, the manufacture of grain will turn out to have
been moderately profitable. Now, on the other hand, under a system of free importation, whenever
a redundant crop in England coincides (as often it does) with a similar redundancy in Poland,
the discouragement cannot but become immoderate. An excess of one-seventh will cause a fall
of price by three-sevenths. But the simultaneous excess on the Continent may raise the one-seventh
to two-sevenths, and in a much greater proportion will these depress the price. The evil will
then be enormous; the discouragement will be ruinous; much capital, much land, will be withdrawn
from the culture of grain; and, supposing a two years' succession of such excessive crops,
(which effect is more common than a single year's excess,) the result, for the third year,
will be seen in a preternatural deficiency; for, by the supposition, the number of acres applied
to corn is now very much less than usual, under the unusual discouragement; and according to
the common oscillations of the season according to those irregularities that, in effect, are
often found to be regular--this third year succeeding to redundant years may be expected to
turn out a year of scarcity. Here, then, in the absence of a corn-law, comes a double deficiency--a
deficiency of acres applied, from jealousy of foreign competition, and upon each separate acre
a deficiency of crop, from the nature of the weather. What will be the consequence? A price
ruinously high; higher beyond comparison than could ever have arisen under a temperate restriction
of competition; that is, in other words, under a British corn-law.

Many other cases might be presented to the reader, and especially under the action of a doctrine
repeatedly pressed in this journal, but steadily neglected elsewhere--viz. the "devolution"
of foreign agriculture upon lower qualities of land, (and consequently its permanent exaltation
in price,) in case of any certain demand on account of England. But this one illustration is
sufficient. Here we see that, under a free trade in corn, and in consequence of a free trade,
ruinous enhancements of price would arise--such in magnitude as never could have arisen under
a wise limitation of foreign competition. And further, we see that under our present system
no enhancement is, or could be, absolutely injurious; it might be so relatively--it might be
so in relation to the poor consumer; but in the mean time, that guinea which might be lost
to the consumer would be gained to the farmer. Now, in the case supposed, under a free corn
trade the rise is commensurate to the previous injury sustained by the farmer; and much of
the extra bonus reaped goes to a foreign interest. What we insist upon, however, is this one
fact, that alternately the British corn-laws have raised the price of grain and have sunk it;
they have raised the price in the case where else there would have been a ruinous depreciation--ruinous
to the prospects of succeeding years; they have sunk it under the natural and usual oscillations
of weather to be looked for in these succeeding years. And each way their action has been most
moderate. For let not the reader forget, that on the system of a sliding-scale, this action
cannot be otherwise than moderate. Does the price rise? Does it threaten to rise higher? Instantly
the very evil redresses itself. As the evil, i.e. the price, increases, in that exact proportion
does it open the gate to relief; for exactly so does the duty fall. Does the price fall ruinously?--(in
which case it is true that the instant sufferer is the farmer; but through him, as all but
the short-sighted must see, the consumer will become the reversionary sufferer)--immediately
the duty rises, and forbids an accessary evil from abroad to aggravate the evil at home. So
gentle and so equable is the play of those weights which regulate our whole machinery, whilst
the late correction applied even here by Sir Robert Peel, has made this gentle action still
gentler; so that neither of the two parties--consumers who to live must buy, growers who to
live must sell--can, by possibility, feel an incipient pressure before it is already tending
to relieve itself. It is the very perfection of art to make a malady produce its own medicine--an
evil its own relief. But that which here we insist on, is, that it never was the object of
our own corn-laws to increase the price of corn; secondly, that the real object was a condition
of equipoise which abstractedly is quite unconnected with either rise of price or fall of price;
and thirdly, that, as a matter of fact, our corn-laws have as often reacted to lower the price,
as directly they have operated to raise it; whilst eventually, and traced through succeeding
years, equally the raising and the lowering have co-operated to that steady temperature (or
nearest approximation to it allowed by nature) which is best suited to a comprehensive system
of interests. Accursed is that man who, in speaking upon so great a question, will seek, or
will consent, to detach the economic considerations of that question from the higher political
considerations at issue. Accursed is that man who will forget the noble yeomanry we have formed
through an agriculture chiefly domestic, were it even true that so mighty a benefit had been
purchased by some pecuniary loss. But this it is which we are now denying. We affirm peremptorily,
and as a fact kept out of sight only by the neglect of pursuing the case through a succession
of years under the natural fluctuation of seasons, that, upon the series of the last seventy
years, viewed as a whole, we have paid less for our corn by means of the corn-laws, than we
should have done in the absence of such laws. It was, says Mr Cobden, the purpose of such laws
to make corn dear; it is, says he, the effect, to make it cheap. Yes, in the last clause his
very malice drove him into the truth. Speaking to farmers, he found it requisite to assert
that they had been injured; and as he knew of no injury to them other than a low price, that
he postulated at the cost of his own logic, and quite forgetting that if the farmer had lost,
the consumer must have gained in that very ratio. Rather than not assert a failure quoad the
intention of the corn-laws, he actually asserts a national benefit quoad the result. And, in
a rapture of malice to the lawgivers, he throws away for ever, at one victorious sling, the
total principles of an opposition to the law.[29]

    [29] Those who fancy a possible evasion of the case
    supposed above, by saying, that if a failure, extensive
    as to England, should coincide with a failure extensive
    as to Poland, remedies might be found in importing from
    many other countries combined, forget one objection,
    which is decisive--these supplementary countries must be
    many, and they must be distant. For no country could
    singly supply a defect of great extent, unless it were a
    defect annually and regularly anticipated. A surplus
    never designed as a fixed surplus for England, but
    called for only now and then, could never be more than
    small. Therefore the surplus, which could not be yielded
    by one country, must be yielded by many. In that
    proportion increase the probabilities that a number will
    have no surplus. And, secondly, from the widening
    distances, in that proportion increases the extent of
    shipping required. But now, even from Mr Porter, a most
    prejudiced writer on this question, and not capable of
    impartiality in speaking upon any measure which he
    supposes hostile to the principle of free trade, the
    reader may learn how certainly any great hiatus in our
    domestic growth of corn is placed beyond all hope of
    relief. For how is this grain, this relief, to be
    brought? In ships, you reply. Ay, but in what ships? Do
    you imagine that an extra navy can lie rotting in docks,
    and an extra fifty thousand of sailors can be held in
    reserve, and borne upon the books of some colossal
    establishment, waiting for the casual seventh, ninth, or
    twelfth year in which they may be wanted--kept and paid
    against an "in case," like the extra supper, so called
    by Louis XIV., which waited all night on the chance that
    it might be wanted? That, you say, is impossible. It
    is so; and yet without such a reserve, all the navies of
    Europe would not suffice to make up such a failure of
    our home crops as is likely enough to follow redundant
    years under the system of unlimited competition.--See
    PORTER.

But enough, and more than enough, of THE nuisance. It will be expected, however, that we should
notice two collateral points, both wearing an air of the marvellous, which have grown out of
the nuisance during the recent session. One is the relaxation of our laws with respect to Canadian
corn; a matter of no great importance in itself, but furnishing some reasons for astonishment
in regard to the disproportioned opposition which it has excited. Undoubtedly the astonishment
is well justified, if we view the measure for what it was really designed by the minister--viz.
as a momentary measure, suited merely to the current circumstances of our relation to Canada.
Long before any evil can arise from it, through changes in these circumstances, the law will
have been modified. Else, and having, regard to the remote contingencies of the case (possible
or probable) rather than to its instant certainties, we are disposed to think, that the irritation
which this little anomalous law has roused amongst some of the landholders, is not quite so
unaccountable, or so disproportionate, as the public have been taught to imagine. True it is,
that for the present, lis est de paupere regno. Any surplus of grain which, at this moment,
Canada could furnish, must be quite as powerless upon our home markets, as the cattle, living
or salted which have been imported under the tariff in 1842 and 1843. But the fears of Canada
potentially, were not therefore unreasonable, because the actual Canada is not in a condition
for instantly using her new privileges. Corn, that hitherto had not been grown, both may be
grown, and certainly will be grown, as soon as the new motive for growing it, the new encouragement,
becomes operatively known. Corn, again, that from local difficulties did not find its way to
eastern markets, will do so by continual accessions, swelling gradually into a powerful stream,
as the many improvements of the land and water communication, now contemplated, or already
undertaken, come into play. Another fear connects itself with possible evasions of the law
by the United States. Cross an imaginary frontier line, and that will become Canadian which
was not Canadian by its origin. We are told, indeed, that merely by its bulk, grain will always
present an obstacle to any extensive system of smuggling. But obstacles are not impossibilities.
And these obstacles, it must be remembered, are not founded in the vigilance of revenue officers,
but simply in the cost; an element of difficulty which is continually liable to change. So
that upon the whole, and as applying to the reversions of the case, rather than to its present
phenomena, undoubtedly there are dangers a-head to our own landed interest from that quarter
of the horizon. For the present, it should be enough to say, that these dangers are yet remote.
And perhaps it would have been enough under other circumstances. But it is the tendency of
the bill which suggests alarm. All changes in our day tend to the consummation of free trade:
and this measure, travelling in that direction, reasonably becomes suspicious by its principle,
though innocent enough by its immediate operation.

The other point connected with the corn question is personal. Among the many motions and notices
growing out of the dispute, which we hold it a matter of duty to neglect, was one brought forward
by Lord John Russell. Upon what principle, or with what object? Strange to say, he refused
to explain. That it must be some modification applied to a fixed duty, every body knew; but
of what nature Lord John declined to tell us, until he should reach a committee which he had
no chance of obtaining. This affair, which surprised every body, is of little importance as
regards the particular subject of the motion. But in a more general relation, it is worthy
of attention. No man interested in the character and efficiency of Parliament, can fail to
wish that there may always exist a strong opposition, vigilant, bold, unflinching, full of
partizanship, if you will, but uniformly suspending the partizanship at the summons of paramount
national interests, and acting harmoniously upon some systematic plan. How little the present
unorganized opposition answers to this description, it is unnecessary to say. The nation is
ashamed of a body so determinately below its functions. But Lord John Russell is individually
superior to his party. He is a man of sense, of information, and of known official experience.
Now, if he, so notoriously the wise man of "her Majesty's Opposition," is capable of descending
to harlequin caprices of this extreme order, the nation sees with pain, that a constitutional
function of control is extinct in our present senate, and that her Majesty's Ministers must
now be looked to as their own controllers. With the levity of a child, Lord John makes a motion,
which, if adopted, would have landed him in defeat; but through utter want of judgment and
concert with his party, he does not get far enough to be defeated: he does not succeed in obtaining
the prostration for which he manœuvres; but is saved from a final exposure of his little statesmanship
by universal mockery of his miserable partizanship. Alas for the times in which Burke and Fox
wielded the forces of Parliamentary opposition, and redoubled the energies of Government by
the energies of their enlightened resistance!

In quitting the subject of the corn agitation, (obstinately pursued through the session,) we
may remark--and we do so with pain--that all laws whatsoever, strong or lax, upon this question
are to be regarded as provisional. The temper of society being what it is, some small gang
of cotton-dealers, moved by the rankest self-interest, finding themselves suffered to agitate
almost without opposition, and the ancient landed interest of the country, if not silenced,
being silent, it is felt by all parties that no law, in whatever direction, upon this great
problem, can have a chance of permanence. The natural revenge which we may promise ourselves
is--that the lunacies of the free-trader, when acted upon, as too surely they will be, may
prove equally fugitive. Meantime, it is not by provisional acts, or acts of sudden emergency,
that we estimate the service of a senate. It is the solemn and deliberate laws, those which
are calculated for the wear and tear of centuries, which hold up a mirror to the legislative
spirit of the times.

Of laws bearing this character, if we except the inaugural essays at improving the law of libel,
and at founding a system of national education, of which the latter has failed for the present
in a way fitted to cause some despondency, the last session offers us no conspicuous example,
beyond the one act of Lord Aberdeen for healing and tranquillizing the wounds of the Scottish
church. Self-inflicted these wounds undeniably were; but they were not the less severe on that
account, nor was the contagion of spontaneous martyrdom on that account the less likely to
spread. In reality, the late astonishing schism in the Scottish church (astonishing because
abrupt) is, in one respect, without precedent. Every body has heard of persecutions that were
courted; but in such a case, at least, the spirit of persecution must have had a local existence,
and to some extent must have uttered menaces--or how should those menaces have been defied?
Now, the "persecutions," before which a large section of the Scottish church has fallen by
an act of spontaneous martyrdom, were not merely needlessly defied, but were originally self-created;
they were evoked, like phantoms and shadows, by the martyrs themselves, out of blank negations.
Without provocation ab extra, without warning on their own part, suddenly they place themselves
in an attitude of desperate defiance to the known law of the land. The law firmly and tranquilly
vindicates itself; the whole series of appeals is threaded; the original judgment, as a matter
of course, is finally re-affirmed--and this is the persecution insinuated; whilst the necessity
of complying with that decision, which does not express any novelty even to the extent of a
new law, but simply the ordinary enforcement of an old one, is the kind of martyrdom resulting.
The least evil of this fantastic martyrdom, is the exit from the pastoral office of so many
persons trained, by education and habit, to the effectual performance of the pastoral duties.
That loss--though not without signal difficulty, from the abruptness of the summons--will be
supplied. But there is a greater evil which cannot be healed--the breach of unity in the church.
The scandal, the offence, the occasion of unhappy constructions upon the doctrinal soundness
of the church, which have been thus ministered to the fickle amongst her own children--to the
malicious amongst her enemies, are such as centuries do not easily furnish, and centuries do
not remove. In all Christian churches alike, the conscientiousness which is the earliest product
of heartfelt religion, has suggested this principle, that schism, for any cause, is a perilous
approach to sin; and that, unless in behalf of the weightiest interests or of capital truths,
it is inevitably criminal. And in connexion with this consideration, there arise two scruples
to all intelligent men upon this crisis in the Scottish church, and they are scruples which
at this moment, we are satisfied, must harass the minds of the best men amongst the seceders--viz.
First, whether the new points contended for, waiving all controversy upon their abstract doctrinal
truth, are really such, in practical virtue, that it could be worth purchasing them at the
cost of schism? Secondly, supposing a good man to have decided this question in the affirmative
for a young society of Christians, for a church in its infancy, which, as yet, might not have
much to lose in credit or authentic influence--whether the same free license of rupture and
final secession could belong to an ancient church, which had received eminent proofs of Divine
favour through a long course of spiritual prosperity almost unexampled? Indeed, this last question
might suggest another paramount to the other two--viz. not whether the points at issue were
weighty enough to justify schism and hostile separation, but whether those points could even
be safe as mere speculative credenda, which, through so long a period of trial, and by so memorable
a harvest of national services, had been shown to be unnecessary?

Very sure we are, that no eminent servant of the Scottish church could abandon, without anguish
of mind, the multitude of means and channels, that great machinery for dispensing living truths,
which the power and piety of the Scottish nation have matured through three centuries of pure
Christianity militant. Solemn must have been the appeal, and searching, which would force its
way to the conscience on occasion of taking the last step in so sad an exodus from the Jerusalem
of his fathers. Anger and irritation can do much to harden the obduracy of any party conviction,
especially whilst in the centre of fiery partisans. But sorrow, in such a case, is a sentiment
of deeper vitality than anger; and this sorrow for the result will co-operate with the original
scruples on the casuistry of the questions, to reproduce the demur and the struggle many times
over, in consciences of tender sensibility.

Exactly for men in this state of painful collision with their own higher nature, is Lord Aberdeen's
bill likely to furnish the bias which can give rest to their agitations, and firmness to their
resolutions. The bill, according to some, is too early, and, according to others, too late.
Why too early? Because, say they, it makes concessions to the church, which as yet are not
proved to be called for. These concessions travel on the very line pursued by the seceders,
and must give encouragement to that spirit of religious movement which it has been found absolutely
requisite to rebuke by acts of the legislature. Why, on the other hand, is Lord Aberdeen's
bill too late? Because, three years ago, it would, or it might, have prevented the secession.
But is this true? Could this bill have prevented the secession? We believe not. Lord Aberdeen,
undoubtedly, himself supposes that it might. But, granting that this were true, whose fault
is it that a three years' delay has intercepted so happy a result? Lord Aberdeen assures us
that the earlier success of the bill was defeated entirely by the resistance of the Government
at that period, and chiefly by the personal resistance of Lord Melbourne. Let that minister
be held responsible, if any ground has been lost that could have been peacefully pre-occupied
against the schism. This, however, seems to us a chimera. For what is it that the bill concedes?
Undoubtedly it restrains and modifies the right of patronage. It grants a larger discretion
to the ecclesiastical courts than had formerly been exercised by the usage. Some contend, that
in doing so the bill absolutely alters the law as it stood heretofore, and ought, therefore,
to be viewed as enactory; whilst others maintain that is simply a declaratory bill, not altering
the law at all, but merely expressing, in fuller or in clearer terms, what had always been
law, though silently departed from by the usage, which, from the time of Queen Anne, had allowed
a determinate preponderance to the rights of property in the person of the patron. Those, indeed,
who take the former view, contending that it enacts a new principle of law, very much circumscribing
the old right of patronage, insist upon it that the bill virtually revokes the decision of
the Lords in the Auchterarder case. Technically and formally speaking, this is not true; for
the presbytery, or other church court, is now tied up to a course of proceeding which at Auchterarder
was violently evaded. The court cannot now peremptorily challenge the nominee in the arbitrary
mode adopted in that instance. An examination must be instituted within certain prescribed
limits. But undoubtedly the contingent power of the church court, in the case of the nominee
not meeting the examination satisfactorily, is much larger now, under the new bill, than it
was under the old practice; so that either this practice must formerly have swerved from the
letter of the law, or else the new law, differing from the old, is really more than declaratory.
Yet, however this may be, it is clear that the jurisdiction of the church in the matter of
patronage, however ample it may seem as finally ascertained or created by the new bill, falls
far within the extravagant outline marked out by the seceders. We argue, therefore, that it
could not have prevented their secession even as regards that part of their pretensions; whilst,
as regards the monstrous claim to decide in the last resort what shall be civil and what spiritual--that
is, in a question of clashing jurisdiction, to settle on their own behalf where shall fall
the boundary line--it may be supposed that Lord Aberdeen would no more countenance their claim
in any point of practice, than all rational legislators would countenance it as a theory. How,
therefore, could this bill have prevented the rent in the church, so far as it has yet extended?
On the other hand, though apparently powerless for that effect, it is well calculated to prevent
a second secession. Those who are at all disposed to follow the first seceders, stand in this
situation. By the very act of adhering to the Establishment when the ultra party went out,
they made it abundantly manifest that they do not go to the same extreme in their requisitions.
But, upon any principle which falls short of that extreme being at all applicable to this church
question, it is certain that Lord Aberdeen's measure will be found to satisfy their wishes;
for that measure, if it errs at all, errs by conceding too much rather than too little. It
sustains all objections to a candidate on their own merit, without reference to the quarter
from which they arise, so long as they are relevant to the proper qualifications of a parish
clergyman. It gives effect to every argument that can reasonably be urged against a nominee--either
generally, on the ground of his moral conduct, his orthodoxy, and his intellectual attainments;
or specially, in relation to his fitness for any local varieties of the situation. A Presbyterian
church has always been regarded as, in some degree, leaning to a republican character, but
a republic may be either aristocratic or democratic: now, Lord Aberdeen has favoured the democratic
tendency of the age by making the probationary examination of the candidate as much of a popular
examination, and as open to the impression of objections arising with the body of the people,
as could be done with any decent regard either to the rights yet recognised in the patron,
or, still more, to the professional dignity of the clerical order.

Upon the whole, therefore, we look upon Lord Aberdeen as a national benefactor, who has not
only turned aside a current running headlong into a revolution, but in doing this exemplary
service, has contrived to adjust the temperament very equitably between, 1st, the individual
nominee, having often his livelihood at stake; 2dly, the patron, exercising a right of property
interwoven with our social system, and not liable to any usurpation which would not speedily
extend itself to other modes of property; 3dly, the church, considered as the trustee or responsible
guardian of orthodoxy and sound learning; 4thly, the same church considered as a professional
body, and, therefore, as interested in upholding the dignity of each individual clergyman,
and his immunity from frivolous cavils, however much against him they are interested in detecting
his insufficiency; and, 5thly, the body of the congregation, as undoubtedly entitled to have
the qualifications of their future pastor rigorously investigated. All these separate claims,
embodied in five distinct parties, Lord Aberdeen has delicately balanced and fixed in a temperate
equipoise by the machinery of his bill. Whilst, if we enquire for the probable effects of this
bill upon the interests of pure and spiritual religion, the promise seems every way satisfactory.
The Jacobinical and precipitous assaults of the Non-intrusionists upon the rights of property
are summarily put down. A great danger is surmounted. For if the rights of patrons were to
be arbitrarily trampled under foot on a pretence of consulting for the service of religion;
on the next day, with the same unprincipled levity, another party might have trampled on the
patrimonial rights of hereditary descent, on primogeniture, or any institution whatever, opposed
to the democratic fanaticism of our age. No patron can now thrust an incompetent or a vicious
person upon the religious ministrations of the land. It must be through their own defect of
energy, if any parish is henceforth burdened with an incumbent reasonably obnoxious. It must
be the fault of the presbytery or other church court, if the orthodox standards of the church
are not maintained in their purity. It must be through his own fault, or his own grievous defects,
if any qualified candidate for the church ministry is henceforth vexatiously rejected. It must
be through some scandalous oversight in the selection of presentees, if any patron is defeated
of his right to present.

Contrast with these great services the menaces and the tendencies of the Non-Intrusionists,
on the assumption that they had kept their footing in the church. It may be that, during this
generation, from the soundness of the individual partisans, the orthodox standards of the church
would have been maintained as to doctrine. But all the other parties interested in the church,
except the church herself, as a depositary of truth, would have been crushed at one blow. This
is apparent, except only with regard to the congregation of each parish. That body, it may
be thought, could not but have benefited by the change; for the very motive and the pretence
of the movement arose on their behalf. But mark how names disguise facts, and to what extent
a virtual hostility may lurk under an apparent protection. Lord Aberdeen, because he limits
the right of the congregation, is supposed to destroy it; but in the mean time he secures to
every parish in Scotland a true and effectual influence, so far as that body ought to have
it, (that is, negatively,) upon the choice of its pastor. On the other hand, the whole storm
of the Non-intrusionists was pointed at those who refused to make the choice of a pastor altogether
popular. It was the people, considered as a congregation, who ought to appoint the teacher
by whom they were to be edified. So far, the party of seceders come forward as martyrs to their
democratic principles. And they drew a colourable sanction to their democracy from the great
names of Calvin, Zuinglius, and John Knox. Unhappily for them, Sir William Hamilton has shown,
by quotations the most express and absolute from these great authorities, that no such democratic
appeal as the Non-intrusionists have presumed, was ever contemplated for an instant by any
one amongst the founders of the Reformed churches. That Calvin, whose jealousy was so inexorable
towards princes and the sons of princes--that John Knox, who never "feared the face of man
that was born of woman"--were these great Christian champions likely to have flinched from
installing a popular tribunal, had they believed it eligible for modern times, or warranted
by ancient times? In the learning of the question, therefore, Non-intrusionists showed themselves
grossly wrong. Meantime it is fancied that at least they were generously democratic, and that
they manifested their disinterested love of justice by creating a popular control that must
have operated chiefly against their own clerical order. What! is that indeed so? Now, finally,
take another instance how names belie facts. The people were to choose their ministers; the
council for election of the pastor was to be a popular council abstracted from the congregation:
but how? but under what conditions? but by whom abstracted? Behold the subtle design:--This
pretended congregation was a small faction; this counterfeit "people" was the petty gathering
of COMMUNICANTS; and the communicants were in effect within the appointment of the clergyman.
They formed indirectly a secret committee of the clergy. So that briefly, Lord Aberdeen, whilst
restraining the popular courts, gives to them a true popular authority; and the Non-intrusionists,
whilst seeming to set up a democratic idol, do in fact, by dexterous ventriloquism, throw their
own all-potential voice into its passive organs.

We may seem to owe some apology to our readers for the space which we have allowed to this
great moral émeute in Scotland. But we hardly think so ourselves. For in our own island, and
in our own times, nothing has been witnessed so nearly bordering on a revolution. Indeed, it
is painful to hear Dr Chalmers, since the secession, speaking of the Scottish aristocracy in
a tone of scornful hatred, not surpassed by the most Jacobinical language of the French Revolution
in the year 1792. And, if this movement had not been checked by Parliament, and subsequently
by the executive Government, in its comprehensive provision for the future, by the measure
we have been reviewing, we cannot doubt that the contagion of the shock would have spread immediately
to England, which part of the island has been long prepared and manured, as we might say, for
corresponding struggles, by the continued conspiracy against church-rates. In both cases, an
attack on church property, once allowed to prosper or to gain any stationary footing, would
have led to a final breach in the life and serviceable integrity of the church.

Of the Factory bill, we are sorry that we are hardly entitled to speak. In the loss of the
educational clauses, that bill lost all which could entitle it to a separate notice; and, where
the Government itself desponds as to any future hope of succeeding, private parties may have
leave to despair. One gleam of comfort, however, has shone out since the adjournment of Parliament.
The only party to the bitter resistance under which this measure failed, whom we can sincerely
compliment with full honesty of purpose--viz. the Wesleyan Methodists--have since expressed
(about the middle of September) sentiments very like compunction and deep sorrow for the course
they felt it right to pursue. They are fully aware of the malignity towards the Church of England,
which governed all other parties to the opposition excepting themselves; and in the sorrowful
result of that opposition, which has terminated in denying all extension of education to the
labouring youth of the nation, they have learned (like the conscientious men that they are)
to suspect the wisdom and the ultimate principle of the opposition itself. Fortunately, they
are a most powerful body; to express regret for what they have done, and hesitation at the
casuistry of those motives which reconciled them to their act at the moment is possibly but
the next step to some change in their counsels; in which case this single body, in alliance
with the Church of England, would be able to carry the great measure which has been crushed
for the present by so unexampled a resistance. Much remains to be said, both upon the introductory
statements of Lord Ashley, with which (in spite of our respect for that nobleman) we do not
coincide, and still more upon the extensive changes, and the principles of change, which must
be brought to bear upon a national system of education, before it can operate with that large
effect of benefit which so many anticipate from its adoption. But this is ample matter for
a separate discussion.

Lastly, let us notice the Irish Arms' bill; which, amongst the measures framed to meet the
momentary exigence of the times, stands foremost in importance. This is one of those fugitive
and casual precautions, which, by intense seasonableness, takes its rank amongst the permanent
means of pacification. Bridling the instant spirit of uproar, carrying the Irish nation over
that transitional state of temptation, which, being once gone by, cannot, we believe, be renewed
for generations, this, with other acts in the same temper, will face whatever peril still lingers
in the sullen rear of Mr O'Connell's dying efforts. For that gentleman, personally, we believe
him to be nearly extinct. Two months ago we expressed our conviction, so much the stronger
in itself for having been adopted after some hesitation, that Sir Robert Peel had taken the
true course for eventually and finally disarming him. We are thankful that we have now nothing
to recant. Progress has been made in that interval towards that consummation, quite equal to
any thing we could have expected in so short a lapse of weeks. Mr O'Connell is now showing
the strongest symptoms of distress, and of conscious approach to the condition of "check to
the king." Of these symptoms we will indicate one or two. In January 1843, he declared solemnly
that an Irish Parliament should instal itself at Dublin before the year closed. Early in May,
he promised that on the anniversary of that day the great change should be solemnized. On a
later day in May, he proclaimed that the event would come off (according to a known nautical
mode of advertising the time of sailing) not upon a settled day of that month but "in all May"
of 1844. Here the matter rested until August 12, when again he shifted his day to the corresponding
day of 1844. But September arrived, and then "before those shoes were old" in which he had
made his promise, he declares by letter, to some correspondent, that he must have forty-three
months for working out his plan. Anther symptom, yet more significant, is this: and strange
to say it has been overlooked by the daily press. Originally he had advertised some pretended
Parliament of 300 Irishmen, to which admission was to be had for each member by a fee of L.100.
And several journals are now telling him that, under the Convention Act, he and his Parliament
will be arrested on the day of assembling. Not at all. They do not attend to his harlequin
motions. Already he has declared that this assembly, which was to have been a Parliament, is
only to be a conciliatory committee, an old association under some new name, for deliberating
on means tending to a Parliament in some future year, as yet not even suggested.

May we not say, after such facts, that the game is up? The agitation may continue, and it may
propagate itself. But for any interest of Mr O'Connell's, it is now passing out of his hands.

In the joy with which we survey that winding up of the affair, we can afford to forget the
infamous display of faction during the discussion of the Arms' bill. Any thing like it, in
pettiness of malignity, has not been witnessed during this century: any thing like it, in impotence
of effect, probably will not be witnessed again during our times. Thirteen divisions in one
night--all without hope, and without even a verbal gain! This conduct the nation will not forget
at the next election. But in the mean time the peaceful friends of this yet peaceful empire
rejoice to know, that without war, without rigour, without an effort that could disturb or
agitate--by mere silent precautions, and the sublime magnanimity of simply fixing upon the
guilty conspirator one steadfast eye of vigilant preparation, the conspiracy itself is melting
into air, and the relics of it which remain will soon become fearful only to him who has evoked it.

The game, therefore, is up, if we speak of the purposes originally contemplated. This appears
equally from the circumstances of the case without needing the commentary of Mr O'Connell,
and from the acts no less than the words of that conspirator. True it is--and this is the one
thing to be feared--that the agitation, though extinct for the ends of its author, may propagate
itself through the maddening passions of the people, now perhaps uncontrollably excited. Tumults
may arise, at the moment when further excitement is impossible, simply through that which is
already in operation. But that stage of rebellion is open at every turn to the coercion of
the law: and it is not such a phasis of conspiracy that Mr O'Connell wishes to face, or can
face. Speaking, therefore, of the real objects pursued in this memorable agitation, we cannot
but think that as the roll of possible meetings is drawing nearer to exhaustion, as all other
arts fail, and mere written addresses are renewed, (wanting the inflammatory contagion of personal
meetings, and not accessible to a scattered peasantry;) but above all, as the day of instant
action is once again adjourned to a period both remote and indefinite, the agitation must be
drooping, and virtually we may repeat that the game is up. But the last moves have been unusually
interesting. Not unlike the fascination exercised over birds by the eye of the rattlesnake,
has been the impression upon Mr O'Connell from the fixed attention turned upon him by Government.
What they did was silent and unostentatious; more, however, than perhaps the public is aware
of in the way of preparation for an outbreak. But the capital resource of their policy was,
to make Mr O'Connell deeply sensible that they were watching him. The eye that watched over
Waterloo was upon him: for six months that eagle glance has searched him and nailed him: and
the result, as it is now revealing itself, may at length be expressed in the two lines of Wordsworth
otherwise applied--

    "The vacillating bondsman of the Pope
    Shrinks from the verdict of that steadfast eye."

Edinburgh: Printed by Ballantyne and Hughes, Paul's Work.

Minor typographic errors have been corrected. Please note there is some archaic spelling, which
has been retained as printed. There are a few snippets of Greek, a few instances of the letter
a with macron (straight line) over it, and some oe ligatures; you may need to adjust your settings
for these to display correctly.