Her parents were Martha and Henry Bell. She says that the first thing she remembers is being
whipped by her mother.

Jennie Kendricks' grandmother and her ten children lived on this plantation. The grandmother
had been brought to Georgia from Virginia: "She used to tell me how the slave dealers brought
her and a group of other children along much the same as they would a herd of cattle," said
the ex-slave, "when they reached a town all of them had to dance through the streets and act
lively so that the chances for selling them would be greater".

When asked to tell about Mr. Moore, her owner, and his family Jennie Kendricks stated that
although her master owned and operated a large plantation, he was not considered a wealthy
man. He owned only two other slaves besides her immediate family and these were men.

"In Mr. Moores family were his mother, his wife, and six children (four boys and two girls).
This family lived very comfortably in a two storied weatherboard house. With the exception
of our grandmother who cooked for the owner's family and slaves, and assisted her mistress
with housework all the slaves worked in the fields where they cultivated cotton and the corn,
as well as the other produce grown there. Every morning at sunrise they had to get up and go
to the fields where they worked until it was too dark to see. At noon each day they were permitted
to come to the kitchen, located just a short distance in the rear of the master's house, where
they were served dinner. During the course of the day's work the women shared all the men's
work except plowing. All of them picked cotton when it was time to gather the crops. Some nights
they were required to spin and to help Mrs. Moore, who did all of the weaving. They used to
do their own personal work, at night also." Jennie Kendricks says she remembers how her mother
and the older girls would go to the spring at night where they washed their clothes and then
left them to dry on the surrounding bushes.

As a little girl Jennie Kendricks spent all of her time in the master's house where she played
with the young white children. Sometimes she and Mrs. Moore's youngest child, a little boy,
would fight because it appeared to one that the other was receiving more attention from Mrs.
Moore than the other. As she grew older she was kept in the house as a playmate to the Moore
children so she never had to work in the field a single day.

She stated that they all wore good clothing and that all of it was made on the plantation with
one exception. The servants spun the thread and Mrs. Moore and her daughters did all of the
weaving as well as the making of the dresses that were worn on this particular plantation.
"The way they made this cloth", she continued, "was to wind a certain amount of thread known
as a "cut" onto a reel. When a certain number of cuts were reached they were placed on the
loom. This cloth was colored with a dye made from the bark of trees or with a dye that was
made from the indigo berry cultivated on the plantation. The dresses that the women wore on
working days were made of striped or checked materials while those worn on Sunday were usually
white."

She does not know what the men wore on work days as she never came in contact with them. Stockings
for all were knitted on the place. The shoes, which were the one exception mentioned above,
were made by one Bill Jacobs, an elderly white man who made the shoes for all the plantations
in the community. The grown people wore heavy shoes called "Brogans" while those worn by the
children were not so heavy and were called "Pekers" because of their narrow appearance. For
Sunday wear, all had shoes bought for this purpose. Mr. Moore's mother was a tailoress and
at times, when the men were able to get the necessary material, she made their suits.

There was always enough feed for everybody on the Moore plantation. Mrs. Moore once told Jennie's
mother to always see that her children had sufficient to eat so that they would not have to
steal and would therefore grow up to be honorable. As the Grandmother did all of the cooking,
none of the other servants ever had to cook, not even on Sundays or other holidays such as
the Fourth of July. There was no stove in this plantation kitchen, all the cooking was done
at the large fireplace where there were a number of hooks called potracks. The pots, in which
the cooking was done, hung from these hooks directly over the fire.

The meals served during the week consisted of vegetables, salt bacon, corn bread, pot liquor,
and milk. On Sunday they were served milk, biscuits, vegetables, and sometimes chicken. Jennie
Kendricks ate all of her meals in the master's house and says that her food was even better.
She was also permitted to go to the kitchen to get food at any time during the day. Sometimes
when the boys went hunting everyone was given roast 'possum and other small game. The two male
slaves were often permitted to accompany them but were not allowed to handle the guns. None
of the slaves had individual gardens of their own as food sufficient for their needs was raised
in the master's garden.

The houses that they lived in were one-roomed structures made of heavy plank instead of logs,
with planer [HW: ?] floors. At one end of this one-roomed cabin there was a large chimney and
fireplace made of rocks, mud, and dirt. In addition to the one door, there was a window at
the back. Only one family could live in a cabin as the space was so limited. The furnishings
of each cabin consisted of a bed and one or two chairs. The beds were well constructed, a great
deal better than some of the beds the ex-slave saw during these days. Regarding mattresses
she said, "We took some tick and stuffed it with cotton and corn husks, which had been torn
into small pieces and when we got through sewing it looked like a mattress that was bought
in a store."

Light was furnished by lightwood torches and sometimes by the homemade tallow candles. The
hot tallow was poured into a candle mold, which was then dipped into a pan of cold water, when
the tallow had hardened, the finished product was removed.

Whenever there was sickness, a doctor was always called. As a child Gussie was rather sickly,
and a doctor was always called to attend to her. In addition to the doctor's prescriptions
there was heart leaf tea and a warm remedy of garlic tea prepared by her grandmother.

If any of the slaves ever pretended sickness to avoid work, she knows nothing about it.

As a general rule, slaves were not permitted to learn to read or write, but the younger Moore
children tried to teach her to spell, read, and write. When she used to stand around Mrs. Moore
when she was sewing she appeared to be interested and so she was taught to sew.

Every Sunday afternoon they were all permitted to go to town where a colored pastor preached
to them. This same minister performed all marriages after the candidates had secured the permission
of the master.

There was only one time when Mr. Moore found it necessary to sell any of his slaves. On this
occasion he had to sell two; he saw that they were sold to another kind master.

The whipping on most plantation were administered by the [HW: over]seers and in some cases
punishment was rather severe. There was no overseer on this plantation. Only one of Mr. Moore's
sons told the field hands what to do. When this son went to war it became necessary to hire
an overseer. Once he attempted to whip one of the women but when she refused to allow him to
whip her he never tried to whip any of the others. Jennie Kendricks' husband, who was also
a slave, once told her his master was so mean that he often whipped his slaves until blood
ran in their shoes.

There was a group of men, known as the "Patter-Rollers", whose duty it was to see that slaves
were not allowed to leave their individual plantations without passes which [HW: they] were
supposed to receive from their masters. "A heap of them got whippings for being caught off
without these passes," she stated, adding that "sometimes a few of them were fortunate enough
to escape from the Patter-Rollers". She knew of one boy who, after having outrun the "Patter-Rollers",
proceeded to make fun of them after he was safe behind his master's fence. Another man whom
the Patter-Rollers had pursued any number of times but who had always managed to escape, was
finally caught one day and told to pray before he was given his whipping. As he obeyed he noticed
that he was not being closely observed, whereupon he made a break that resulted in his escape
from them again.

The treatment on some of the other plantations was so severe that slaves often ran away, Jennie
Kendricks told of one man [HW: who was] [TR: "being" crossed out] lashed [HW: and who] ran
away but was finally caught. When his master brought him back he was locked in a room until
he could be punished. When the master finally came to administer the whipping, Lash had cut
his own throat in a last effort to secure his freedom. He was not successful; his life was
saved by quick action on the part of his master. Sometime later after rough handling Lash finally
killed his master [HW: and] was burned at the stake for this crime.

Other slaves were more successful at escape, some being able to remain away for as long as
three years at a time. At nights, they slipped to the plantation where they stole hogs and
other food. Their shelters were usually caves, some times holes dug in the ground. Whenever
they were caught, they were severely whipped.

A slave might secure his freedom without running away. This is true in the case of Jennie Kendricks'
grandfather who, after hiring his time out for a number of years, was able to save enough money
with which to purchase himself from his master.

Jennie Kendricks remembers very little of the talk between her master and mistress concerning
the war. She does remember being taken to see the Confederate soldiers drill a short distance
from the house. She says "I though it was very pretty, 'course I did'nt know what was causing
this or what the results would be". Mr. Moore's oldest sons went to war [HW: but he] himself
did not enlist until the war was nearly over. She was told that the Yankee soldiers burned
all the gin houses and took all live stock that they saw while on the march, but no soldiers
passed near their plantation.

After the war ended and all the slaves had been set free, some did not know it, [HW: as] they
were not told by their masters. [HW: A number of them] were tricked into signing contracts
which bound them to their masters for several years longer.

As for herself and her grandmother, they remained on the Moore property where her grandmother
finally died. Her mother moved away when freedom was declared and started working for someone
else. It was about this time that Mr. Moore began to prosper, he and his brother Marvin gone
into business together.

According to Jennie Kendricks, she has lived to reach such a ripe old age because she has always
been obedient and because she has always been a firm believer in God.

[HW: Dist 1 Ex-Slave #62]

EX-SLAVE INTERVIEW: EMMALINE KILPATRICK, Age 74 Born a slave on the plantation of Judge William
Watson Moore, White Plains, (Greene County) Georgia

BY: SARAH H. HALL ATHENS, GA. [Date Stamp: MAY 8 1937]

One morning in October, as I finished planting hyacinth bulbs on my cemetery lot, I saw an
old negro woman approaching. She was Emmaline Kilpatrick, born in 1863, on my grandfather's
plantation.

"Mawnin' Miss Sarah," she began, "Ah seed yer out hyar in de graveyard, en I cum right erlong
fer ter git yer ter read yo' Aunt Willie's birthday, offen her toomstone, en put it in writin'
fer me."

"I don't mind doing that for you, Emmaline," I replied, "but why do you want to know my aunt's
birthday?"

"Well," answered the old ex-slave, "I can't rightly tell mah age no udder way. My mammy, she
tole me, I wuz bawned de same night ez Miss Willie wuz, en mammy allus tole me effen I ever
want ter know how ole I is, jes' ask my white folks how ole Miss Willie is."

When I had pencilled the birthdate on a scrap of paper torn from my note book and she had tucked
it carefully away in a pocket in her clean blue checked gingham apron, Emmaline began to talk
of the old days on my grandfather's farm.

"Miss Sarah, Ah sho did love yo' aunt Willie. We wuz chilluns growin' up tergedder on Marse
Billie's place. You mought not know it, but black chilluns gits grown heap faster den white
chilluns, en whilst us played 'round de yard, en orchards, en pastures out dar, I wuz sposed
ter take care er Miss Willie en not let her git hurt, er nuthin' happen ter her."

"My mammy say dat whan Marse Billie cum hom' frum de War, he call all his niggers tergedder
en tell 'am dey is free, en doan b'long ter nobody no mo'. He say dat eny uf 'um dat want to,
kin go 'way and live whar dey laks, en do lak dey wanter. Howsome ebber, he do say effen enybody
wants ter stay wid him, en live right on in de same cabins, dey kin do it, effen dey promise
him ter be good niggers en mine him lak dey allus done."

"Most all de niggers stayed wid Marse Billie, 'ceppen two er thee brash, good fer nuthin's."

Standing there in the cemetery, as I listened to old Emmaline tell of the old days, I could
see cotton being loaded on freight cars at the depot. I asked Emmaline to tell what she could
remember of the days whan we had no railroad to haul the cotton to market.

"Well," she said, "Fore dis hyar railroad wuz made, dey hauled de cotton ter de Pint (She meant
Union Point) en sold it dar. De Pint's jes' 'bout twelve miles fum hyar. Fo' day had er railroad
thu de Pint, Marse Billie used ter haul his cotton clear down ter Jools ter sell it. My manny
say dat long fo' de War he used ter wait twel all de cotton wuz picked in de fall, en den he
would have it all loaded on his waggins. Not long fo' sundown he wud start de waggins off,
wid yo' unker Anderson bossin' 'em, on de all night long ride towards Jools. 'Bout fo' in de
mawnin' Marse Billie en yo' grammaw, Miss Margie, 'ud start off in de surrey, driving de bays,
en fo' dem waggins git ter Jools Marse Billie done cotch up wid em. He drive er head en lead
em on ter de cotton mill in Jools, whar he sell all his cotton. Den him en Miss Margie, dey
go ter de mill sto' en buy white sugar en udder things dey doan raise on de plantation, en
load 'em on de waggins en start back home."

"But Emmaline," I interrupted, "Sherman's army passed through Jewels and burned the houses
and destroyed the property there. How did the people market their cotton then?"

Emmaline scratched her head. "Ah 'members somepin 'bout dat," she declared. "Yassum, I sho'
does 'member my mammy sayin' dat folks sed when de Fed'rals wuz bunnin' up evvy thing 'bout
Jools, dey wuz settin' fire ter de mill, when de boss uv dem sojers look up en see er sign
up over er upstairs window. Hit wuz de Mason's sign up day, kaze dat wuz de Mason's lodge hall
up over de mill. De sojer boss, he meks de udder sojers put out de fire. He say him er Mason
hisself en he ain' gwine see nobuddy burn up er Masonic Hall. Dey kinder tears up some uv de
fixin's er de Mill wuks, but dey dassent burn down de mill house kaze he ain't let 'em do nuthin'
ter de Masonic Hall. Yar knows, Miss Sarah, Ah wuz jes' 'bout two years ole when dat happen,
but I ain't heered nuffin' 'bout no time when dey didden' take cotton ter Jools ever year twel
de railroad come hyar."

"Did yer ax me who mah'ed my maw an paw? Why, Marse Billie did, cose he did! He wuz Jedge Moore,
Marse Billie wuz, en he wone gwine hev no foolis'mant 'mongst 'is niggers. Fo' de War en durin'
de War, de niggers went ter de same church whar dare white folks went. Only de niggers, dey
set en de gallery."

"Marse Billie made all his niggers wuk moughty hard, but he sho' tuk good keer uv 'em. Miss
Margie allus made 'em send fer her when de chilluns wuz bawned in de slave cabins. My mammy,
she say, Ise 'bout de onliest slave baby Miss Margie diden' look after de bawnin, on dat plantation.
When any nigger on dat farm wuz sick, Marse Billie seed dat he had medicine an lookin' atter,
en ef he wuz bad sick Marse Billie had da white folks doctor come see 'bout 'im."

"Did us hev shoes? Yas Ma'am us had shoes. Dat wuz all ole Pegleg wuz good fer, jes ter mek
shoes, en fix shoes atter dey wuz 'bout ter give out. Pegleg made de evvy day shoes for Marse
Billie's own chilluns, 'cept now en den Marse Billie fetched 'em home some sto' bought shoes
fun Jools."

"Yassum, us sho' wuz skeered er ghosts. Dem days when de War won't long gone, niggers sho'
wus skert er graveyards. Mos' evvy nigger kep' er rabbit foot, kaze ghosties wone gwine bodder
nobuddy dat hed er lef' hind foot frum er graveyard rabbit. Dem days dar wuz mos' allus woods
'round de graveyards, en it uz easy ter ketch er rabbit az he loped outer er graveyard. Lawsy,
Miss Sarah, dose days Ah sho' wouldn't er been standin' hyar in no graveyard talkin' ter ennybody,
eben in wide open daytime."

"En you ax wuz dey enny thing else uz wuz skert uv? Yassum, us allus did git moughty oneasy
ef er scritch owl hollered et night. Pappy ud hop right out er his bed en stick de fire shovel
en de coals. Effen he did dat rat quick, an look over 'is lef' shoulder whilst de shovel gittin'
hot, den maybe no no nigger gwine die dat week on dat plantation. En us nebber did lak ter
fine er hawse tail hair en de hawse trough, kaze us wuz sho' ter meet er snake fo' long."

"Yassum, us had chawms fer heap er things. Us got 'em fum er ole Injun 'oman dat lived crost
de crick. Her sold us chawms ter mek de mens lak us, en chawms dat would git er boy baby, er
anudder kind er chawms effen yer want er gal baby. Miss Margie allus scold 'bout de chawns,
en mek us shamed ter wear 'em, 'cept she doan mine ef us wear asserfitidy chawms ter keep off
fevers, en she doan say nuffin when my mammy wear er nutmeg on a wool string 'round her neck
ter keep off de rheumatiz.

"En is you got ter git on home now, Miss Sarah? Lemme tote dat hoe en trowel ter yer car fer
yer. Yer gwine ter take me home in yer car wid yer, so ez I kin weed yer flower gyarden fo'
night? Yassum, I sho' will be proud ter do it fer de black dress you wo' las' year. Ah gwine
ter git evvy speck er grass outer yo' flowers, kaze ain' you jes' lak yo' grammaw--my Miss Margie."

[HW: Dist 6 Ex Slave #65]

J.R. Jones

FRANCES KIMBROUGH, EX-SLAVE Place of birth: On Kimbrough plantation, Harries County, near Cataula,
Georgia Date of birth: About 1854 Present residence: 1639-5th Avenue, Columbus, Georgia Interviewed:
August 7, 1936 [Date Stamp: MAY 8 --]

"Aunt Frances" story reveals that, her young "marster" was Dr. Jessie Kimbrough--a man who
died when she was about eighteen years of age. But a few weeks later, while working in the
field one day, she saw "Marse Jessie's" ghost leaning against a pine "watchin us free Niggers
wuckin."

When she was about twenty-two years of age, "a jealous Nigger oman" "tricked" her. The "spell"
cast by this "bad oman" affected the victim's left arm and hand. Both became numb and gave
her great "misery". A peculiar feature of this visitation of the "conjurer's" spite was: if
a friend or any one massaged or even touched the sufferer's afflicted arm or hand, that person
was also similarly stricken the following day, always recovering, however, on the second day.

Finally, "Aunt" Frances got in touch with a "hoodoo" doctor, a man who lived in Muscogee County--about
twenty-five miles distant from her. This man paid the patient one visit, then gave her absent
treatment for several weeks, at the end of which time she recovered the full use of her arm
and hand. Neither ever gave her any trouble again.

For her old-time "white fokes", "Aunt" Frances entertains an almost worshipful memory. Also,
in her old age, she reflects the superstitious type of her race.

Being so young when freedom was declared, emancipation did not have as much significance for
"Aunt" Frances as it did for the older colored people. In truth, she had no true conception
of what it "wuz all about" until several years later. But she does know that she had better
food and clothes before the slaves were freed than she had in the years immediately following.

She is deeply religious, as most ex-slaves are, but--as typical of the majority of aged Negroes--associates
"hants" and superstition with her religion.

[HW: Dist 6 Ex-Slave #64]

Mary A. Crawford Re-Search Worker

CHARLIE KING--EX-SLAVE Interviewed 435 E. Taylor Street, Griffin, Georgia September 16, 1936

Charlie was born in Sandtown, (now Woodbury) Meriwether County, Georgia, eighty-five or six
years ago. He does not know his exact age because his "age got burned up" when the house in
which his parents lived was burned to the ground.

The old man's parents, Ned and Ann King, [TR: "were slaves of" crossed out] Mr. John King,
who owned a big plantation near Sandtown [TR: "also about two hundred slaves" crossed out].
[TR: HW corrections are too faint to read.]

Charlie's parents were married by the "broom stick ceremony." The Master and Mistress were
present at the wedding. The broom was laid down on the floor, the couple held each other's
hands and stepped backward over it, then the Master told the crowd that the couple were man
and wife.

This marriage lasted for over fifty years and they "allus treated each other right."

Charlie said that all the "Niggers" on "ole Master's place" had to work, "even chillun over
seven or eight years of age."

The first work that Charlie remembered was "toting cawn" for his mother "to drap", and sweeping
the yards up at the "big house". He also recalls that many times when he was in the yard at
the "big house", "Ole Miss" would call him in and give him a buttered biscuit.

The Master and Mistress always named the Negro babies and usually gave them Bible names.

When the Negroes were sick, "Ole Master" and "Ole Miss" did the doctoring, sometimes giving
them salts or oil, and if [HW: a Negro] refused it, they used the raw hide "whup."

When a member of a Negro family died, the master permitted all the Negroes to stop work and
go to the funeral. The slave was buried in the slave grave yard. Sometimes a white minister
read the Bible service, but usually a Negro preacher [HW: "officiated"].

The Negroes on this plantation had to work from sun up till sun down, except Saturday and Sunday;
those were free.

The master blew on a big conch shell every morning at four o'clock, and when the first long
blast was heard the lights "'gin to twinkle in every "Nigger" cabin." Charlie, chuckling, recalled
that "ole Master" blowed that shell so it could-a-been heard for five miles." Some of the "Niggers"
went to feed the mules and horses, some to milk the cows, some to cook the breakfast in the
big house, some to chop the wood, while others were busy cleaning up the "big house."

When asked if he believed in signs, Charlie replied: "I sho does for dis reason. Once jest
befo my baby brother died, ole screech owl, he done come and set up in the big oak tree right
at the doah by de bed and fo' the next twelve hours passed, my brother was dead. Screech owls
allus holler 'round the house before death."

The slaves always had plenty to eat and wear, and therefore did not know what it was to be hungry.

The Master planted many acres of cotton, corn, wheat, peas, and all kinds of garden things.
Every "Nigger family was required to raise plenty of sweet potatoes, the Master giving them
a patch." "My 'ole Master' trained his smartest 'Niggers' to do certain kinds of work. My mother
was a good weaver, and [HW: she] wove all the cloth for her own family, and bossed the weaving
of all the other weavers on the plantation."

Charlie and all of his ten brothers and sisters helped to card and spin the cotton for the
looms. Sometimes they worked all night, Charlie often going to sleep while carding, when his
mother would crack him on the head with the carder handle and wake him up. Each child had a
night for carding and spinning, so they all would get a chance to sleep.

Every Saturday night, the Negroes had a "breakdown," often dancing all night long. About twelve
o'clock they had a big supper, everybody bringing a box of all kinds of good things to eat,
and putting it on a long table.

On Sunday, all the darkies had to go to church. Sometimes the Master had a house on his plantation
for preaching, and sometimes the slaves had to go ten or twelve miles to preaching. When they
went so far the slaves could use 'ole' Master's' mules and wagons.

Charlie recalls very well when the Yankees came through. The first thing they did when they
reached 'ole Master's' place was to break open the smokehouse and throw the best hams and shoulders
out to the darkies, but as soon as the Yankees passed, the white folks made the "Niggers" take
"all dey had'nt et up" back to the smokehouse. "Yes, Miss, we had plenty of liquor. Ole Master
always kept kegs of it in the cellar and big 'Jimmy-john's' full in the house, and every Saturday
night he'd give us darkies a dram, but nobody nevah seed no drunk Nigger lak dey does now."

Charlie's mother used to give her "chillun" "burnt whiskey" every morning "to start the day
off." This burnt whiskey gave them "long life".

Another thing that Charlie recalls about the Yankees coming through, was that they took the
saddles off their "old sore back horses", turned them loose, and caught some of Master's fine
"hosses", threw the saddles over them and rode away.

Charlie said though "ole Marster" "whupped" when it was necessary, but he was not "onmerciful"
like some of the other "ole Marsters" were, but the "paterolers would sho lay it on if they
caught a Nigger off his home plantation without a pass." The passes were written statements
or permits signed by the darkies' owner, or the plantation overseer.

Charlie is very feeble and unable to work. Res. 6 & 7 Augusta, Ga.

Sept. 28, 1938

A narrow path under large water oaks led through a well-kept yard where a profusion of summer
flowers surrounded Nicey Kinney's two-story frame house. The porch floor and a large portion
of the roof had rotted down, and even the old stone chimney at one end of the structure seemed
to sag. The middle-aged mulatto woman who answered the door shook her head when asked if she
was Nicey Kinney. "No, mam," she protested, "but dat's my mother and she's sick in bed. She
gits mighty lonesome lyin' dar in de bed and she sho does love to talk. Us would be mighty
proud if you would come in and see her."

Nicey was propped up in bed and, although the heat of the September day was oppressive, the
sick woman wore a black shoulder cape over her thick flannel nightgown; heavy quilts and blankets
were piled close about her thin form, and the window at the side of her bed was tightly closed.
Not a lock of her hair escaped the nightcap that enveloped her head. The daughter removed an
empty food tray and announced, "Mammy, dis lady's come to see you and I 'spects you is gwine
to lak her fine 'cause she wants to hear 'bout dem old days dat you loves so good to tell about."
Nicey smiled. "I'se so glad you come to see me," she said, "'cause I gits so lonesome; jus'
got to stay here in dis bed, day in and day out. I'se done wore out wid all de hard wuk I'se
had to do, and now I'se a aged 'oman, done played out and sufferin' wid de high blood pressur'.
But I kin talk and I does love to bring back dem good old days a-fore de war."

Newspapers had been pasted on the walls of Nicey's room. In one corner an enclosed staircase
was cut off from the room by a door at the head of the third step; the space underneath the
stair was in use as a closet. The marble topped bureau, two double beds, a couple of small
tables, and some old chairs were all of a period prior to the current century. A pot of peas
was perched on a pair of "firedogs" over the coals of a wood fire in the open fireplace. On
a bed of red coals a thick iron pan held a large pone of cornbread, and the tantalizing aroma
of coffee drew attention to a steaming coffeepot on a trivet in one corner of the hearth. Nicey's
daughter turned the bread over and said, "Missy, I jus' bet you ain't never seed nobody cookin'
dis way. Us is got a stove back in de kitchen, but our somepin t'eat seems to taste better
fixed dis 'way; it brings back dem old days when us was chillun and all of us was at home wid
mammy." Nicey grinned. "Missy," she said, "Annie--dat's dis gal of mine here--laughs at de
way I laks dem old ways of livin', but she's jus' as bad 'bout 'em as I is, 'specially 'bout
dat sort of cookin'; somepin t'eat cooked in dat old black pot is sho good.

"Marse Gerald Sharp and his wife, Miss Annie, owned us and, Child, dey was grand folks. Deir
old home was 'way up in Jackson County 'twixt Athens and Jefferson. Dat big old plantation
run plumb back down to de Oconee River. Yes, mam, all dem rich river bottoms was Marse Gerald's.

"Mammy's name was Ca'line and she b'longed to Marse Gerald, but Marse Hatton David owned my
daddy--his name was Phineas. De David place warn't but 'bout a mile from our plantation and
daddy was 'lowed to stay wid his fambly most evvy night; he was allus wid us on Sundays. Marse
Gerald didn't have no slaves but my mammy and her chillun, and he was sho mighty good to us.

"Marse Gerald had a nice four-room house wid a hall all de way through it. It even had two
big old fireplaces on one chimbly. No, mam, it warn't a rock chimbly; dat chimbly was made
out of home-made bricks. Marster's fambly had deir cookin' done in a open fireplace lak evvybody
else for a long time and den jus' 'fore de big war he bought a stove. Yes, mam, Marse Gerald
bought a cook stove and us felt plumb rich 'cause dere warn't many folks dat had stoves back
in dem days.

"Mammy lived in de old kitchen close by de big house 'til dere got to be too many of us; den
Marse Gerald built us a house jus' a little piece off from de big house. It was jus' a log
house, but Marster had all dem cracks chinked tight wid red mud, and he even had one of dem
franklin-back chimblies built to keep our little cabin nice and warm. Why, Child, ain't you
never seed none of dem old chimblies? Deir backs sloped out in de middle to throw out de heat
into de room and keep too much of it from gwine straight up de flue. Our beds in our cabin
was corded jus' lak dem up at de big house, but us slept on straw ticks and, let me tell you,
dey sho slept good atter a hard days's wuk.

"De bestest water dat ever was come from a spring right nigh our cabin and us had long-handled
gourds to drink it out of. Some of dem gourds hung by de spring all de time and dere was allus
one or two of 'em hangin' by de side of our old cedar waterbucket. Sho', us had a cedar bucket
and it had brass hoops on it; dat was some job to keep dem hoops scrubbed wid sand to make
'em bright and shiny, and dey had to be clean and pretty all de time or mammy would git right
in behind us wid a switch. Marse Gerald raised all dem long-handled gourds dat us used 'stid
of de tin dippers folks has now, but dem warn't de onliest kinds of gourds he growed on his
place. Dere was gourds mos' as big as waterbuckets, and dey had short handles dat was bent
whilst de gourds was green, so us could hang 'em on a limb of a tree in de shade to keep water
cool for us when us was wukin' in de field durin' hot weather.

"I never done much field wuk 'til de war come on, 'cause Mistess was larnin' me to be a housemaid.
Marse Gerald and Miss Annie never had no chillun 'cause she warn't no bearin' 'oman, but dey
was both mighty fond of little folks. On Sunday mornin's mammy used to fix us all up nice and
clean and take us up to de big house for Marse Gerald to play wid. Dey was good christian folks
and tuk de mostest pains to larn us chillun how to live right. Marster used to 'low as how
he had done paid $500 for Ca'line but he sho wouldn't sell her for no price.

"Evvything us needed was raised on dat plantation 'cept cotton. Nary a stalk of cotton was
growed dar, but jus' de same our clothes was made out of cloth dat Mistess and my mammy wove
out of thread us chillun spun, and Mistess tuk a heap of pains makin' up our dresses. Durin'
de war evvybody had to wear homespun, but dere didn't nobody have no better or prettier dresses
den ours, 'cause Mistess knowed more'n anybody 'bout dyein' cloth. When time come to make up
a batch of clothes Mistess would say, 'Ca'line holp me git up my things for dyein',' and us
would fetch dogwood bark, sumach, poison ivy, and sweetgum bark. That poison ivy made the best
black of anything us ever tried, and Mistess could dye the prettiest sort of purple wid sweetgum
bark. Cop'ras was used to keep de colors from fadin', and she knowed so well how to handle
it dat you could wash cloth what she had dyed all day long and it wouldn't fade a speck.

"Marster was too old to go to de war, so he had to stay home and he sho seed dat us done our
wuk raisin' somepin t'eat. He had us plant all our cleared ground, and I sho has done some
hard wuk down in dem old bottom lands, plowin', hoein', pullin' corn and fodder, and I'se even
cut cordwood and split rails. Dem was hard times and evvybody had to wuk.

"Sometimes Marse Gerald would be away a week at a time when he went to court at Jefferson,
and de very last thing he said 'fore he driv off allus was, 'Ca'line, you and de chillun take
good care of Mistess.' He most allus fetched us new shoes when he come back, 'cause he never
kept no shoemaker man on our place, and all our shoes was store-bought. Dey was jus' brogans
wid brass toes, but us felt powerful dressed up when us got 'em on, 'specially when dey was
new and de brass was bright and shiny. Dere was nine of us chillun, four boys and five gals.
Us gals had plain cotton dresses made wid long sleeves and us wore big sunbonnets. What would
gals say now if dey had to wear dem sort of clothes and do wuk lak what us done? Little boys
didn't wear nothin' but long shirts in summertime, but come winter evvybody had good warm clothes
made out of wool off of Marse Gerald's own sheep, and boys, even little tiny boys, had britches
in winter.

"Did you ever see folks shear sheep, Child? Well, it was a sight in dem days. Marster would
tie a sheep on de scaffold, what he had done built for dat job, and den he would have me set
on de sheep's head whilst he cut off de wool. He sont it to de factory to have it carded into
bats and us chillun spun de thread at home and mammy and Mistess wove it into cloth for our
winter clothes. Nobody warn't fixed up better on church days dan Marster's Niggers and he was
sho proud of dat.

