To say that Glacier National Park is the Canadian Rockies done in Grand Canyon colors is to
express a small part of a complicated fact. Glacier is so much less and more. It is less in
its exhibit of ice and snow. Both are dying glacial regions, and Glacier is hundreds of centuries
nearer the end; no longer can it display snowy ranges in August and long, sinuous Alaska-like
glaciers at any time. Nevertheless, it has its glaciers, sixty or more of them perched upon
high rocky shelves, the beautiful shrunken reminders of one-time monsters. Also it has the
precipice-walled cirques and painted, lake-studded valleys which these monsters left for the
enjoyment of to-day.

It is these cirques and valleys which constitute Glacier's unique feature, which make it incomparable
of its kind. Glacier's innermost sanctuaries of grandeur are comfortably accessible and intimately
enjoyable for more than two months each summer. The greatest places of the Canadian Rockies
are never accessible comfortably; alpinists may clamber over their icy crevasses and scale
their slippery heights in August, but the usual traveller will view their noblest spectacles
from hotel porches or valley trails.

This comparison is useful because both regions are parts of the same geological and scenic
development in which Glacier may be said to be scenically, though by no means geologically,
completed and the Canadian Rockies still in the making. A hundred thousand years or more from
now the Canadian Rockies may have reached, except for coloring, the present scenic state of
Glacier.

Glacier National Park hangs down from the Canadian boundary-line in northwestern Montana, where
it straddles the continental divide. Adjoining it on the north is the Waterton Lakes Park,
Canada. The Blackfeet Indian Reservation borders it on the east. Its southern boundary is Marias
Pass, through which the Great Northern Railway crosses the crest of the Rocky Mountains. Its
western boundary is the North Fork of the Flathead River. The park contains fifteen hundred
and thirty-four square miles.

Communication between the east and west sides within the park is only by trail across passes
over the continental divide.

There are parts of America quite as distinguished as Glacier: Mount McKinley, for its enormous
snowy mass and stature; Yosemite, for the quality of its valley's beauty; Mount Rainier, for
its massive radiating glaciers; Crater Lake, for its color range in pearls and blues; Grand
Canyon, for its stupendous painted gulf. But there is no part of America or the Americas, or
of the world, to match it of its kind. In respect to the particular wondrous thing these glaciers
of old left behind them when they shrank to shelved trifles, there is no other. At Glacier
one sees what he never saw elsewhere and never will see again--except at Glacier. There are
mountains everywhere, but no others carved into shapes quite like these; cirques in all lofty
ranges, but not cirques just such as these; and because of these unique bordering highlands
there are nowhere else lakes having the particular kind of charm possessed by Glacier's lakes.

Visitors seldom comprehend Glacier; hence they are mute, or praise in generalities or vague
superlatives. Those who have not seen other mountains find the unexpected and are puzzled.
Those who have seen other mountains fail to understand the difference in these. I have never
heard comparison with any region except the Canadian Rockies, and this seldom very intelligent.
"I miss the big glaciers and snowy mountain-tops," says the traveller of one type. "You can
really see something here besides snow, and how stunning it all is!" says the traveller of
another type. "My God, man, where are your artists?" cried an Englishman who had come to St.
Mary Lake to spend a night and was finishing his week. "They ought to be here in regiments.
Not that this is the greatest thing in the world, but that there's nothing else in the world
like it." Yet this emotional traveller, who had seen the Himalayas, Andes, and Canadian Rockies,
could not tell me clearly why it was different. Neither could the others explain why they liked
it better than the Canadian Rockies, or why its beauty puzzled and disturbed them. It is only
he whom intelligent travel has educated to analyze and distinguish who sees in the fineness
and the extraordinary distinction of Glacier's mountain forms the completion of the more heroic
undevelopment north of the border.

II

The elements of Glacier's personality are so unusual that it will be difficult, if not impossible,
to make phrase describe it. Comparison fails. Photographs will help, but not very efficiently,
because they do not convey its size, color, and reality; or perhaps I should say its unreality,
for there are places like Two Medicine Lake in still pale mid-morning, St. Mary Lake during
one of its gold sunsets, and the cirques of the South Fork of the Belly River under all conditions
which never can seem actual.

To picture Glacier as nearly as possible, imagine two mountain ranges roughly parallel in the
north, where they pass the continental divide between them across a magnificent high intervening
valley, and, in the south, merging into a wild and apparently planless massing of high peaks
and ranges. Imagine these mountains repeating everywhere huge pyramids, enormous stone gables,
elongated cones, and many other unusual shapes, including numerous saw-toothed edges which
rise many thousand feet upward from swelling sides, and suggest nothing so much as overturned
keel-boats. Imagine ranges glacier-bitten alternately on either side with cirques of three
or four thousand feet of precipitous depth. Imagine these cirques often so nearly meeting that
the intervening walls are knife-like edges; miles of such walls carry the continental divide,
and occasionally these cirques meet and the intervening wall crumbles and leaves a pass across
the divide. Imagine places where cirque walls have been so bitten outside as well as in that
they stand like amphitheatres builded up from foundations instead of gouged out of rock from above.

Imagine these mountains plentifully snow-spattered upon their northern slopes and bearing upon
their shoulders many small and beautiful glaciers perched upon rock-shelves above and back
of the cirques left by the greater glaciers of which they are the remainders. These glaciers
are nearly always wider than they are long; of these I have seen only three with elongated
lobes. One is the Blackfeet Glacier, whose interesting west lobe is conveniently situated for
observation south of Gunsight Lake, and another, romantically beautiful Agassiz Glacier, in
the far northwest of the park, whose ice-currents converge in a tongue which drops steeply
to its snout. These elongations are complete miniatures, each exhibiting in little more than
half a mile of length all usual glacial phenomena, including caves and ice-falls. Occasionally,
as on the side of Mount Jackson at Gunsight Pass and east of it, one notices small elongated
glaciers occupying clefts in steep slopes. The largest and most striking of these tongued glaciers
is the westernmost of the three Carter Glaciers on the slopes of Mount Carter. It cascades
its entire length into Bowman Valley, and Marius R. Campbell's suggestion that it should be
renamed the Cascading Glacier deserves consideration.

Imagine deep rounded valleys emerging from these cirques and twisting snakelike among enormous
and sometimes grotesque rock masses which often are inconceivably twisted and tumbled, those
of each drainage-basin converging fan-like to its central valley. Sometimes a score or more
of cirques, great and small, unite their valley streams for the making of a river; seven principal
valleys, each the product of such a group, emerge from the east side of the park, thirteen
from the west.

Imagine hundreds of lakes whose waters, fresh-run from snow-field and glacier, brilliantly
reflect the odd surrounding landscape. Each glacier has its lake or lakes of robin's-egg blue.
Every successive shelf of every glacial stairway has its lake--one or more. And every valley
has its greater lake or string of lakes. Glacier is pre-eminently the park of lakes. When all
is said and done, they constitute its most distinguished single element of supreme beauty.
For several of them enthusiastic admirers loudly claim world pre-eminence.

And finally imagine this picture done in soft glowing colors--not only the blue sky, the flowery
meadows, the pine-green valleys, and the innumerable many-hued waters, but the rocks, the mountains,
and the cirques besides. The glaciers of old penetrated the most colorful depths of earth's
skin, the very ancient Algonkian strata, that from which a part of the Grand Canyon also was
carved. At this point, the rocks appear in four differently colored layers. The lowest of these
is called the Altyn limestone. There are about sixteen hundred feet of it, pale blue within,
weathering pale buff. Whole yellow mountains of this rock hang upon the eastern edge of the
park. Next above the Altyn lies thirty-four hundred feet of Appekunny argillite, or dull-green
shale. The tint is pale, deepening to that familiar in the lower part of the Grand Canyon.
It weathers every darkening shade to very dark greenish-brown. Next above that lies twenty-two
hundred feet of Grinnell argillite, or red shale, a dull rock of varying pinks which weathers
many shades of red and purple, deepening in places almost to black. There is some gleaming
white quartzite mixed with both these shales. Next above lies more than four thousand feet
of Siyeh limestone, very solid, very massive, iron-gray with an insistent flavor of yellow,
and weathering buff. This heavy stratum is the most impressive part of the Glacier landscape.
Horizontally through its middle runs a dark broad ribbon of diorite, a rock as hard as granite,
which once, while molten, burst from below and forced its way between horizontal beds of limestone;
and occasionally, as in the Swiftcurrent and Triple Divide Passes, there are dull iron-black
lavas in heavy twisted masses. Above all of these colored strata once lay still another shale
of very brilliant red. Fragments of this, which geologists call the Kintla formation, may be
seen topping mountains here and there in the northern part of the park.

Imagine these rich strata hung east and west across the landscape and sagging deeply in the
middle, so that a horizontal line would cut all colors diagonally.

Now imagine a softness of line as well as color resulting probably from the softness of the
rock; there is none of the hard insistence, the uncompromising definiteness of the granite
landscape. And imagine further an impression of antiquity, a feeling akin to that with which
one enters a mediæval ruin or sees the pyramids of Egypt. Only here is the look of immense,
unmeasured, immeasurable age. More than at any place except perhaps the rim of the Grand Canyon
does one seem to stand in the presence of the infinite; an instinct which, while it baffles
analysis, is sound, for there are few rocks of the earth's skin so aged as these ornate shales
and limestones.

And now, at last, you can imagine Glacier!

III

