257
  "Junius Identified." by J. Taylor. 258
  Folk Lore:--Spiders a Cure for Ague--Funeral Superstition--Folk
  Lore Rhymes. 259
  On a Passage in the Tempest, by S.W. Singer. 259
  Punishment of Death of Burning. 260
  Note on Morganatic Marriages. 261
  Minor Notes:--Alderman Beckford--Frozen Horn--Inscription
  translated--Parallel Passages--Note on George Herbert's Poems--"Crede
  quod habes"--Grant to Earl of Sussex--First Woman formed from a
  Rib--Beau Brummell's Ancestry. 262

QUERIES:--
  Gray's Elegy and Dodsley's Poems. 264
  Hugh Holland and his Works, by E.F. Rimbault, L.L.D. 265
  Harvey and the Circulation of the Blood. 266
  Minor Queries:--Bernardus Patricius--Meaning of
  Hanger--Cat and Bagpipes--Andrew Becket--Laurence
  Minot--Modena Family--Bamboozle--Butcher's
  Blue Dress--Hatchment and Atchievement--"Te
  colui Virtutem"--"Illa suavissima Vita"--Christianity,
  Early Influence of--Meaning of Wraxen--Saint,
  Legend of a--Land Holland--Farewell--Stepony
  Ale--"Regis ad Exemplar"--La Caronacquerie--Rev.
  T. Tailer--Mistletoe as a Christmas
  Evergreen--Poor Robin's Almanacks--Sirloin--Thompson
  of Esholt. 266

REPLIES:--
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Pension--Execution of
  Charles I.--Paper Hangings--Black-guard--Pilgrims'
  Road--Combs buried with the Dead--Aërostation--St.
  Thomas of Lancaster--Smoke Money--Robert Herrich--Guildhalls--Abbé
  Strickland--Long Conkin--Havock--Becket's Mother--Watching
  the Sepulchre--Portraits of Charles I.--Joachim,
  the French Ambassador. 272

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

OLD SONGS.

I heard, "in other days," a father singing a comic old song to one of his children, who was
sitting on his knee. This was in Yorkshire: and yet it could hardly be a Yorkshire song, as
the scene was laid in another county. It commenced with--

  "Randle O'Shay has sold his mare
  For nineteen groats at Warrin'ton fair,"

and goes on to show how the simpleton was cheated out of his money.

I find in Hasted's History of Kent (vol. i. p. 468., 2nd edit.) mention made of the family
of Shaw, who held the manor of Eltham, &c., and who "derive themselves from the county palatine
of Chester." It is further stated that Randal de Shaw, his son, was settled at Haslington Hall
in that county.

All, indeed, that this proves is, the probability of the hero of the song being also a native
of Cheshire, or one of the adjacent counties; and that the legend is a truth, even as to names
as well as general facts. The song is worthy of recovery and preservation, as a remnant of
English character and manners; and I have only referred to Hasted to point out the probable
district in which it will be found.

There are many other characteristics of the manners of the humbler classes to be found in songs
that had great local popularity within the period of living memory; for instance, the Wednesbury
Cocking amongst the colliers of Staffordshire and Rotherham Status amongst the cutlers of Sheffield.
Their language, it is true, is not always very delicate--perhaps was not even at the time these
songs were composed,--as they picture rather the exuberant freaks of a half-civilised people
than the better phases of their character. Yet even these form "part and parcel" of the history
of "the true-born Englishman."

One song more may be noticed here:--the rigmarole, snatches of which probably most of us have
heard, which contains an immense number of mere truisms having no connexion with each others,
and no bond of union but the metrical form in which their juxtaposition is effected, and the
rhyme, which is kept up very well throughout, though sometimes by the introduction of a nonsense
line. Who does not remember--

  "A yard of pudding's not an ell,"

or

  "Not forgetting dytherum di,
  A tailor's goose can never fly,"

and other like parts?

It is just such a piece of burlesque as Swift might have written: but many circumstances lead
me to think it must be much older. Has it ever been printed? {258}

There is another old (indeed an evidently very ancient) song, which I do not remember to have
seen in print, or even referred to in print. None of the books into which I have looked, from
deeming them likely to contain it, make the least reference to this song. I have heard it in
one of the midland counties, and in one of the western, both many years ago; but I have not
heard it in London or any of the metropolitan districts. The song begins thus:--

  "London Bridge is broken down,
     Dance over my Lady Lea:
  London Bridge is broken down,
     With a gay ladée."

This must surely refer to some event preserved in history,--may indeed be well known to well-read
antiquaries, though so totally unknown to men whose general pursuits (like my own) have lain
in other directions. The present, however, is an age for "popularising" knowledge; and your
work has assumed that task as one of its functions.

The difficulties attending such inquiries as arise out of matters so trivial as an old ballad,
are curiously illustrated by the answers already printed respecting the "wooing frog." In the
first place, it was attributed to times within living memory; then shown to exceed that period,
and supposed to be very old,--even as old as the Commonwealth, or, perhaps, as the Reformation.
This is objected to, from "the style and wording of the song being evidently of a much later
period than the age of Henry VIII.;" and Buckingham's "mad" scheme of taking Charles into Spain
to woo the infanta is substituted. This is enforced by the "burden of the song;" whilst another
correspondent considers this "chorus" to be an old one, analogous to "Down derry down:"--that
is, M. denies the force of MR. MAHONY's explanation altogether!

(Why MR. MAHONY calls a person in his "sixth decade" a "sexagenarian" he best knows. Such is
certainly not the ordinary meaning of the term he uses. His pun is good, however.)

Then comes the HERMIT OF HOLYPORT, with a very decisive proof that neither in the time of James
I., nor of the Commonwealth, could it have originated. His transcript from Mr. Collier's Extracts
carries it undeniably back to the middle of the reign of Elizabeth. Of course, it is interesting
to find intermediate versions or variations of the ballad, and even the adaptation of its framework
to other ballads of recent times, such as "Heigho! says Kemble,"--one of the Drury Lane "O.P.
Row" ballads (Rejected Addresses, last ed., or Cunningham's London). Why the conjecture respecting
Henry VIII. is so contemptuously thrown aside as a "fancy," I do not see. A fancy is a dogma
taken up without proof, and in the teeth of obvious probability,--tenaciously adhered to, and
all investigation eschewed. This at least is the ordinary signification of the term, in relation
to the search after truth. How far my own conjecture, or the mode of putting it, fulfills these
conditions, it is not necessary for me to discuss: but I hope the usefulness and interest of
the "NOTES AND QUERIES" will not be marred by any discourtesy of one correspondent towards another.

At the same time, the HERMIT OF HOLYPORT has done the most essential service to this inquiry
by his extract from Mr. Collier, as the question is thereby inclosed within exceedingly narrow
limits. But if the ballad do not refer to Henry VIII., to whom can it be referred with greater
probability? It is too much to assume that all the poetry, wit, and talent of the Tudor times
were confined to the partizans of the Tudor cause, religious or political. We know, indeed,
the contrary. But for his communication, too, the singular coincidence of two such characteristic
words of the song in the "Poley Frog" (in the same number of the "NOTES AND QUERIES") might
have given rise to another conjecture: but the date excludes its further consideration.

I may add, that since this has been mooted, an Irish gentleman has told me that the song was
familiar enough in Dublin; and he repeated some stanzas of it, which were considerably different
from the version of W.A.G., and the chorus the same as in the common English version. I hope
presently to receive a complete copy of it: which, by the bye, like everything grotesquely
humorous in Ireland, was attributed to the author of Gulliver's Travels.

T.S.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

"JUNIUS IDENTIFIED."

It is fortunate for my reputation that I am still living to vindicate my title to the authorship
of my own book, which seems otherwise in danger of being taken from me.

I can assure your correspondent R.J. (Vol. ii., p. 103.) that I was not only "literally the
writer," (as he kindly suggests, with a view of saving my credit for having put my name to
the book), but in its fullest sense the author of "Junius Identified"; and that I never received
the slightest assistance from Mr. Dubois, or any other person, either in collecting or arranging
the evidence, or in the composition and correction of the work. After I had completed my undertaking,
I wrote to Mr. Dubois to ask if he would allow me to see the handwriting of Sir Philip Francis,
that I might {259} compare it with the published fac-similes of the handwriting of Junius;
but he refused my request. His letter alone disproved the notion entertained by R.J. and others,
that Mr. Dubois was in any degree connected with me, or with the authorship of the work in
question.

With regard to the testimony of Lord Campbell, I wrote to his lordship in February, 1848, requesting
his acceptance of a copy of Junius Identified, which I thought he might not have seen; and
having called his attention to my name at the end of the preface, I begged he would, when opportunity
offered, correct his error in having attributed the work to Mr. Dubois. I was satisfied with
his lordship's reply, which was to the effect that he was ashamed of his mistake, and would
take care to correct it. No new edition of that series of the Lives of the Chancellors, which
contains the "Life of Lord Loughborough," has since been published. The present edition is
dated 1847. If Junius Identified be alluded to in these observations as a pamphlet, it would
make me doubt whether R.J., or either of his authorities, ever saw the book. It is an 8vo.
vol. The first edition, containing 380 pages, was published in 1816, at 12s. The second edition,
which included the supplement, exceeded 400 pages, and was published in 1818, at 14s. The supplement,
which contains the plates of handwriting, was sold separately at 3s. 6d., to complete the first
edition, but this could not have been the pamphlet alluded to in the preceding extracts. I
suspect that when the work is spoken of as a pamphlet, and this if often done, the parties
thus describing it have known it only through the medium of the critique in the Edinburgh Review.

Mr. Dubois was the author of the biography of Sir Philip Francis, first printed in the Monthly
Mirror for May and June, 1810, and reprinted in Junius Identified, with acknowledgment of the
source from which it was taken. To this biography the remarks of Sir Fortunatus Dwarris are
strictly applicable, except that it never appeared in the form of a pamphlet.

JOHN TAYLOR.

30. Upper Gower Street, Sept. 7. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Spiders a Cure for Ague (Vol. ii., p. 130.).--Seeing a note on this subject reminds me that
a few years since, a lady in the south of Ireland was celebrated far and near, amongst her
poorer neighbours, for the cure of this disorder. Her universal remedy was a large house-spider
alive, and enveloped in treacle or preserve. Of course the parties were carefully kept in ignorance
of what the wonderful remedy was.

Whilst I am on the subject of cures, I may as well state that in parts of the co. Carlow, the
blood drawn from a black cat's ear, and rubbed upon the part affected, is esteemed a certain
cure for St. Anthony's fire.

JUNIOR.

Funeral Superstition.--A few days ago the body of a gentleman in this neighbourhood was conveyed
to the hearse, and while being placed in it, the door of the house, whether from design or
inadvertence I know not, was closed before the friends came out to take their places in the
coaches. An old lady, who was watching the proceedings, immediately exclaimed, "God bless me!
they have closed the door upon the corpse: there will be another death in that house before
many days are over." She was fully impressed with this belief, and unhappily this impression
has been confirmed. The funeral was on Saturday, and on the Monday morning following a young
man, resident in the house, was found dead in bed, having died under the influence of chloroform,
which he had inhaled, self-administered, to relieve the pain of toothache or tic-douloureux.

Perhaps the superstition may have come before you already; but not having met with it myself,
I thought it might be equally new to others.

H.J.

Sheffield.

       *       *       *       *       *

Folk Lore Rhymes.--

  "Find odd-leafed ash, and even-leafed clover,
  And you'll see your true love before the day's over."

If you wish to see your lover, throw salt on the fire every morning for nine days, and say--

  "It is not salt I mean to burn,
  But my true lover's heart I mean to turn;
  Wishing him neither joy nor sleep,
  Till he come back to me and speak."

  "If you marry in Lent,
  You will live to repent."

WEDSECNARF.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMENDATION OF A PASSAGE IN THE "TEMPEST."

Premising that I should approach the text of our great poet with an almost equal degree of
awful reverence with that which characterises his two latest editors, I must confess that I
should not have the same respect for evident errors of the printers of the early editions,
which they have occasionally shown. In the following passage in the Tempest, Act i., Scene
1., this forbearance has not, however, been the cause of the very unsatisfactory state in which
they have both left it. I {260} must be indulged in citing at length, that the context may
the more clearly show what was really the poet's meaning:--

  "Enter FERDINAND bearing a Log. I forget:
  But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours;
  Most busy lest when I do it."

Mr. Collier reads these last two lines thus--

  "But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours;
  Most busy, least when I do it."

with the following note--

    "The meaning of this passage seems to have been misunderstood by
    all the commentators. Ferdinand says that the thoughts of
    Miranda so refresh his labours, that when he is most busy he
    seems to feel his toil least. It is printed in the folio
    1623,--

      'Most busy lest when I do it,'

    --a trifling error of the press corrected in the folio 1632,
    although Theobald tells us that both the oldest editions read
    lest. Not catching the poet's meaning, he printed,--

      'Most busy-less when I do it,'

    and his supposed emendation has ever since been taken as the
    text; even Capell adopted it. I am happy in having Mr. Amyot's
    concurrence in this restoration."

Mr. Knight adopts Theobald's reading, and Mr. Dyce approves it in the following words:--

    "When Theobald made the emendation, 'Most busy-less,' he
    observed that 'the corruption was so very little removed from
    the truth of the text, that he could not afford to think well of
    his own sagacity for having discovered it.' The correction is,
    indeed, so obvious that we may well wonder that it had escaped
    his predecessors; but we must wonder ten times more that one of
    his successors, in a blind reverence for the old copy, should
    re-vitiate the text, and defend a corruption which outrages
    language, taste, and common sense."

Although at an earlier period of life I too adopted Theobald's supposed emendation, it never
satisfied me. I have my doubts whether the word busyless existed in the poet's time; and if
it did, whether he could possibly have used it here. Now it is clear that labours is a misprint
for labour; else, to what does "when I do it" refer? Busy lest is only a typographical error
for busyest: the double superlative was commonly used, being considered as more emphatic, by
the poet and his contemporaries.

Thus in Hamlet's letter, Act ii. Sc. 2.:

  "I love thee best, O most best."

and in King Lear, Act ii. Sc. 3.:

  "To take the basest and most poorest shape."

The passage will then stand thus:--

  "But these sweet thoughts, do even refresh my labour,
  Most busiest when I do it."

The sense will be perhaps more evident by a mere transposition, preserving every word:

  "But these sweet thoughts, most busiest when I do
  My labour, do even refresh it."

Here we have a clear sense, devoid of all ambiguity, and confirmed by what precedes; that his
labours are made pleasures, being beguiled by these sweet thoughts of his mistress, which are
busiest when he labours, because it excites in his mind the memory of her "weeping to see him
work." The correction has also the recommendation of being effected in so simple a manner as
by merely taking away two superfluous letters. I trust I need say no more; secure of the approbation
of those who (to use the words of an esteemed friend on another occasion) feel "that making
an opaque spot in a great work transparent is not a labour to be scorned, and that there is
a pleasant sympathy between the critic and bard--dead though he be--on such occasions, which
is an ample reward."

S.W. SINGER

Mickleham, Aug 30. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUNISHMENT OF DEATH BY BURNING.

(Vol. ii., pp. 6. 50. 90. 165.)

In the "NOTES AND QUERIES" of Saturday, the 10th of August, SENEX gives some account of the
burning of a female in the Old Bailey, "about the year 1788."

Having myself been present at the last execution of a female in London, where the body was
burnt (being probably that to which SENEX refers), and as few persons who were then present
may now be alive, I beg to mention some circumstances relative to that execution, which appear
to be worthy of notice.

Our criminal law was then most severe and cruel: the legal punishment of females convicted
of high treason and petty treason was burning; coining was held to be high treason; and murder
of a husband was petty treason.

I see it stated in the Gentleman's Magazine, that on the 13th of March, 1789,--

    "The Recorder of London made his report to His Majesty of the
    prisoners under sentence of death in Newgate, convicted in the
    Sessions of September, October, November, and January (forty-six
    in number), {261} fourteen of whom were ordered for execution;
    five of whom were afterwards reprieved."

The recorder's report in regard to these unfortunate persons had been delayed during the incapacity
of the king; thus the report for four sessions had been made at once. To have decided at one
sitting of council upon such a number of cases, must have almost been enough to overset the
strongest mind. Fortunately, these reports are now abolished.

In the same number of the Gentleman's Magazine, under date the 18th of March, there is this
statement,--

    "The nine following malefactors were executed before the
    Debtors' Door at Newgate pursuant to their sentence, viz., Hugh
    Murphy and Christian Murphy alias Bowman, Jane Grace, and
    Joseph Walker, for coining. [Four for burglary, and one for
    highway robbery.] They were brought upon the scaffold, about
    half an hour after seven, and turned off about a quarter past
    eight.

This is the execution at which I was present; the number of those who suffered, and the burning
of the female, attracted a very great crowd. Eight of the malefactors suffered on the scaffold,
then known as "the new drop." After they were suspended, the woman, in a white dress, was brought
out of Newgate alone; and after some time spent in devotion, was hung on the projecting arm
of a low gibbet, fixed at a little distance from the scaffold. After the lapse of a sufficient
time to extinguish life, faggots were piled around her, and over her head, so that her person
was completely covered: fire was then set to the pile, and the woman was consumed to ashes.

In the following year, 1790, I heard sentence passed in the Criminal Court, in the Old Bailey,
upon other persons convicted of coining: one of them was a female. The sentence upon her was,
that she should be "drawn to the place of execution, and there burnt with fire till she was dead."

The case of this unfortunate woman, and the cruel state of the law in regard to females, then
attracted attention. On the 10th of May, 1790, Sir Benjamin Hammett, in his place in the House
of Commons, called the attention of that House to the then state of the law. He mentioned that
it had been his official duty to attend on the melancholy occasion of the burning of the female
in the preceding year (it is understood he was then one of the sheriffs of London), he moved
for leave to bring in a bill to alter the law, which he characterised as--

    "One of the savage remains of Norman policy, disgracing our
    statute book, as the practice did the common law."

He noticed that the sheriff who did not execute the sentence of burning alive was liable to
a prosecution; but he thanked Heaven there was not a man in England who would carry such a
sentence into effect. He obtained leave to bring in a bill for altering this cruel law; and
in that session the Act 30 G. III. c. 48. was passed--

    "For discontinuing the judgment which has been required by law
    to be given against women convicted of certain crimes, and
    substituting another judgment in lieu thereof."

A debt of gratitude is due to the memory of Sir Benjamin Hammett, for his exertions, at that
period, in the cause of humanity. Thank God, we now live in times when the law is less cruel,
and more chary of human life.

OCTOGENARIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NOTE ON MORGANATIC MARRIAGES.

Grimm (Deutsche Rechts Alterthumer, vol. ii., p. 417.), after a long dissertation, in which
it appears that the money paid by the bridegroom to the wife's relations (I believe subsequently
also to the wife herself) had every form of a purchase, possibly derived also from some symbolic
customs common to all northern tribes, offers the following as the origin of this word "morganatic:"--

    "Es gab aber im Alterthum noch einen erlaubten Ausweg für die
    Verbindung vorneluner Männer mit geringen (freien und selbst
    unfreien) Frauen, den Concubinat, der ohne feierliches
    Verlöbniss, ohne Brautgabe und Mitgift eingegangen wurde,
    mithin keine wahre und volle Ehe, dennoch ein rechtmässiges
    Verhältniss war.

    "Da jedoch die Kirche ein solches Verhältniss missbilligte durch
    keine Einsegnung weihte, so wurde es allmählich unerlaubt und
    verboten als Ausnahme aber bis auf die neueste Zeit für Fürsten
    zugelassen--ja durch Trauung an die linke Hand gefeiert. Die
    Benennung Morganatische Ehe,--Matrimonium ad Morganaticam (11.
    Feud. 29.), rührt daher, dass den Concubinen eine Morgangabe
    (woraus im Mittelalter die Lombarden 'Morganatica'
    machten)--bewilligt zu werden pflegte--es waren Ehen auf blosse
    Morgengabe. Den Beweis liefern Urkunden, die Morganatica für
    Morgengabe auch in Fallen gebrauchen wo von wahrer Ehe die Rede
    ist." (See Heinecius, Antiq. 3. 157, 158.)

The case now stands thus:

It was the custom to give money to the wife's relations on the marriage-day.

It was not the custom with respect to unequal marriage (Misheirath): this took place "ohne
Brautgabe und Mitgift," which was also of later origin.

The exception made by the Church for princes, restored the woman so far, that the marriage
was legally and morally recognised by the Lombard law and the Church, with exceptions as regards
issue, and that the left hand was given for the right.

With regard to this latter, it would be desirable {262} to trace whether giving of the land
had any symbolic meaning. I think the astrologists consider the right as the nobler part of
the body; if so, giving of the left in this case is not without symbolic significance. It must
be remembered how much symbolism prevailed among the tribes which swept Europe on the fall
of the Roman empire, and their Eastern origin.

The Morgengabe, according to Cancianus (Leges Barbarorum, tom. iv. p. 24.), was at first a
free gift made by the husband after the first marriage night. This was carried to such excess,
that Liutprand ordained

    "Tamen ipsum Morgengabe volumus, ut non sit amplius nisi quarta
    pars ejus substantia, qui ipsum Morgengabe dedit."

This became subsequently converted into a right termed justitia.

Upon this extract from a charter,--

    "Manifesta causa est mihi, quoniam die ilio quando te sposavi,
    promiseram tibi dare justitiam tuam secundum legem meam [qr.
    my Lombard law in opposition to the Roman, which he had a
    right to choose,] in Morgencap, id est, quartam portionem omnium
    rerum mobilium et immobilium," &c.

Cancianus thus comments:--

    "Animadverte, quam recte charta hæc cum supra alligatis formulis
    conveniat. Sponsus promiserat Morgencap, quando feminam
    desponsaverat, inde vero ante conjugium chartam conscribit: et
    quod et Liutprandi lege, et ex antiquis moribus Donum fuit
    mere gratuitum, hic appellatur Justitia secundum legem
    Langobardorum."

The Morgencap here assumes, I apprehend, somewhat the form of dower. That it was so, is very
doubtful. (Grimm, vol. ii. p. 441. "Morgengabe.")

    "An demselben Morgen empfängt die JungFrau von ihrem Gemahl ein
    ansehnliches Geschenk, welches Morgengabe heisst. Schon in der
    Pactio Guntherammi et Childeberti, werden Dos und Morganagiba
    unterschieden, ebenso Leg. Rip. 37. 2. Alaman. 56. 1, 2.
    Dos und Morgangeba; Lex Burgend. 42. 2. Morgangeba und das
    'pretium nuptiale;' bei den Langobarden, 'Meta und Morgengab.'"

I do not say this answers the question of your correspondent G., which is, what is the derivation
of the word?

Its actual signification, I think, means left-handed; but to think is not to resolve, and the
question is open to the charitable contributions of your learned and able supporters.

As regards the Fairy Morgana, who was married to a mortal, I confess, with your kind permission,
I had rather not accept her as a satisfactory reply. It is as though you would accept "once
upon a time" as a chronological date! She was married to a mortal--true; but morganatically,
I doubt it. If morganatic came from this, it should appear the Fairy Morgana was the first
lady who so underwent the ceremony. Do not forget Lurline, who married also a mortal, of whom
the poet so prettily sings:

             "Lurline hung her head,
              Turned pale, and then red;
  And declared his abruptness in popping the question
  So soon after dinner had spoilt her digestion."

This lady's marriage resembled the other in all respects, and I leave you to decide, and no
man is more competent, from your extensive knowledge of the mythology of Medieval Europe, whether
Morgana, beyond the mere accident of her name, was more likely than Lurline to have added a
word with a puzzling etymology to the languages of Europe. The word will, I think, be found
of Eastern origin, clothed in a Teutonic form.

After all, Jacob Grimm and Cancianus may interest your readers, and so I send the Note.

S.H.

Athenæum, Sept. 6. 1850

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Alderman Beckford.--Gifford (Ben Jonson, vol. vi. p. 481.) has the following note:--

    "The giants of Guildhall, thank heaven, yet defend their charge:
    it only remains to wish that the citizens may take example by
    the fate of Holmeby, and not expose them to an attack to which
    they will assuredly be found unequal. It is not altogether owing
    to their wisdom that this has not already taken place. For
    twenty years they were chained to the car of a profligate
    buffoon, who dragged them through every species of ignominy to
    the verge of rebellion; and their hall is even yet disgraced
    with the statue of a worthless negro-monger, in the act of
    insulting their sovereign with a speech of which (factious and
    brutal as he was) he never uttered one syllable." ... "By my
    troth, captain, these are very bitter words."

    "ISAAC REED.

    "See the Times Of July 23. 1838, p. 6."

The worshipful Company of Ironmongers have relegated their statue from their hall to a lower
position: but it still disgraces the Guildhall, and will continue to do so, as long as any
factious demagogue is permitted to have a place among its members.

L.S.

The Frozen Horn.--Perhaps it is not generally known that the writer of Munchausen's Travels
borrowed this amusing incident from Heylin's {263} Mikrokosmos. In the section treating of
Muscovy, he says:--

    "This excesse of cold in the ayre, gave occasion to Castilian,
    in his Aulicus, wittily and not incongruously to faine that if
    two men being smewhat distant, talke together in the winter,
    their words will be so frozen that they cannot be heard: but if
    the parties in the spring returne to the same place, their words
    will melt in the same order that they were frozen and spoken,
    and be plainly understood."

J.S.

Salisbury.

Inscription from Roma Subterranea.--If you deem the translation of this inscription, quoted
in Lord Lindsay's fanciful but admirable Sketches of the History of Christian Art, worth a
place among your Notes, it is very heartily at your service.

  "Sisto viator
  Tot ibi trophæa, quot ossa
  Quot martyres, tot triumphi.
  Antra quæ subis, multa quæ cernis marmora,
  Vel dum silent,
  Palam Romæ gloriam loquuntur.
  Audi quid Echo resonet
  Subterraneæ Romæ!
  Obscura licet Urbis Coemetria
  Totius patens Orbis Theatrium!
  Supplex Loci Sanetitatem venerare,
  Et post hac sub luto aurum
  Coelum sub coeno
  Sub Româ Romam quærito!"

Roma Subterranea, 1651, tom. i. p. 625.

(Inscription abridged.)

  Stay, wayfarer--behold
  In ev'ry mould'ring bone a trophy here.
  In all these hosts of martyrs,
  So many triumphs.
  These vaults--these countless tombs,
  E'en in their very silence
  Proclaim aloud Rome's glory:
  The echo'd fame
  Of subterranean Rome
  Rings on the ear.
  The city's sepulchres, albeit hidden,
  Present a spectacle
  To the wide world patent.
  In lowly rev'rence hail this hallow'd spot,
  And henceforth learn
  Gold beneath dross
  Heav'n below earth,
  Rome under Rome to find!

F.T.J.B.

Brookthorpe. 1. p. 272. ed. Edin.

    "Here's an acre sown indeed
    With the richest royalest seeds,
    That the earth did e'er suck in,
    Since the first man dyed for sin:
    Here the bones of birth have cried,
    Though gods they were, as men they died."
    F. BEAUMONT

M.W. Oxon.

A Note on George Herbert's Poems.--In the notes by Coleridge attached to Pickering's edition
of George Herbert's Poems, on the line--

  "My flesh begun unto my soul in pain,"

Coleridge says--

    "Either a misprint, or noticeable idiom of the word began:
    Yes! and a very beautiful idiom it is: the first colloquy or
    address of the flesh."

The idiom is still in use in Scotland. "You had better not begin to me," is the first address
or colloquy of the school-boy half-angry half-frightened at the bullying of a companion. The
idiom was once English, though now obsolete. Several instances of it are given in the last
edition of Foxe's Martyrs, vol. vi. p. 627. It has not been noticed, however, that the same
idiom occurs in one of the best known passages of Shakspeare; in Clarence's dream, Richard
III., Act i. Sc. 4.:

  "O, then began the tempest to my soul."

Herbert's Poems will afford another illustration to Shakspeare, Hamlet, Act iv. Sc. 7.:--

  "And then this should is like a spendthrift sigh,
  That hurts by easing."

Coleridge, in the Literary Remains, vol. i. p. 233., says--

  "In a stitch in the side, every one must have heaved
  a sigh that hurts by easing."

Dr. Johnson saw its true meaning:

    "It is," he says, "a notion very prevalent, that sighs impair
    the strength, and wear out the animal powers."

In allusion to this popular notion, by no means yet extinct, Herbert says, p. 71.:

  "Or if some years with it (a sigh) escape
  The sigh then only is
  A gale to bring me sooner to my bliss."

But in Wright and Halliwell's Reliquiæ Antiquæ, {264} p. 287., from a manuscript of the time
of Henry VII., is given--

  "Tu dixisti de corpore Christi, crede et habes
  De palefrido sic tibi scribo, crede et habes."

M.

Grant to the Earl of Sussex of Leave to be covered in the Royal Presence.--In editing Heylyn's
History of the Reformation, I had to remark of the grant made by Queen Mary to the Earl of
Sussex, that it was the only one of Heylyn's documents which I had been unable to trace elsewhere
(ii. 90.). Allow me to state in your columns, that I have since found it in Weever's Funeral
Monuments (pp. 635, 636).

J.C. ROBERTSON.

Bekesbourne.

IOTA.

Beau Brummel's Ancestry.--Mr. Jesse some years back did ample justice to the history of a "London
celebrity," George Brummell; but, from what he there stated, the following "Note" will, I feel
assured, be a novelty to him. At the time that Brummell was considered in everything the arbiter
elegantiarum, the writer of this has frequently heard Lady Monson (the widow of the second
lord, and an old lady who, living to the age of ninety-seven, had a wonderful fund of interesting
recollections) say, that this ruler of fashion was the descendant of a very excellent servant
in the family. Not long ago, some old papers of the family being turned over, proofs corroborative
of this came to light. William Brummell, from the year 1734 to 1764, was the faithful and confidential
servant of Charles Monson, brother of the first lord: the period would identify him with the
grandfather of the Beau; the only doubt was, that as Mr. Jesse has ascertained that William
Brummell, the grandfather, was, in the interval above given, married, had a son William, and
owned a house in Bury Street, how far these facts were compatible with his remaining as a servant
living with Charles Monson, both in town and country. Now, in 1757, Professor Henry Monson
of Cambridge being dangerously ill, his brother Charles sent William Brummell down, as a trustworthy
person, to attend to him; and in a letter from Brummell to his master, he, with many other
requisitions, wishes that there may be sent down to him a certain glass vessel, very useful
for invalids to drink out of, and which, if not in Spring Gardens, "may be found in Bury Street.
It was used when Billy was ill." From the familiarity of the word "Billy," he must be speaking
of his son. These facts are certainly corroborative of the old dowager's statement.

M(2).

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

GRAY'S ELEGY AND DODSLEY POEMS.

I have here, in the country, few editions of Gray's works by me, and those not the best; for
instance, I have neither of those by the Rev. J. Mitford (excepting his Aldine edition, in
one small volume), which, perhaps, would render my present Query needless. It relates to a
line, or rather a word in the Elegy, which is of some importance. In the second stanza, as
the poem is usually divided (though Mason does not give it in stanzas, because it was not so
originally written), occurs,

  "Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight."

And thus the line stands in all the copies (five) I am able at this moment to consult. But
referring to Dodsley's Collection of Poems, vol. iv., where it comes first, the epithet applied
to "flight" is not "droning," but drony--

  "Save where the beetle wheels his drony flight."

Has anybody observed upon this difference, which surely is worthy of a Note? I cannot find
that the circumstance has been remarked upon, but, as I said, I am here without the means of
consulting the best authorities. The Elegy, I presume, must have been first separately printed,
and from thence transferred to Dodsley's Collection; and I wish to be informed by some person
who has the earliest impression, how the line is there given? I do not know any one to whom
I can appeal on such a point with greater confidence than to MR. PETER CUNNINGHAM, who, I know,
has a large assemblage of the first editions of our most celebrated poets from the reign of
Anne downwards, and is so well able to make use of them. It would be extraordinary, if drony
were the epithet first adopted by Gray, and subsequently altered by him to "droning," that
no notice should have been taken of the substitution by any of the poet's editors. I presume,
therefore, that it has been mentioned, and I wish to know where?

Now, a word or two on Dodsley's Collection of Poems, in the fourth volume of which, as I have
{265} stated, Gray's-Elegy comes first. Dodsley's is a popular and well-known work, and yet
I cannot find that anybody has given the dates connected with it accurately. If Gray's Elegy
appeared in it for the first time (which I do not suppose), it came out in 1755 which is the
date of vol. iv. of Dodsley's Collection, and not in 1757, which is the date of the Strawberry
Hill edition of Gray's Odes. The Rev. J. Mitford (Aldine edit. xxxiii.) informs us that "Dodsley
published three volumes of this Collection in 1752; the fourth volume was published in 1755
and the fifth and sixth volumes, which completed the Collection, in 1758." I am writing with
the title-pages of the work open before me, and I find that the first three volumes were published,
not in 1752, but in 1748, and that even this was the second edition so that there must have
been an edition of the first three volumes, either anterior to 1748, or earlier in that year.
The sale of the work encouraged Dodsley to add a fourth volume in 1755, and two others in 1758
and the plate of Apollo and the Muses was re-engraved for vols. v. and vi., because the original
copper, which had served for vols. i., ii., iii., and iv., was so much worn.

This matter will not seem of such trifling importance to those who bear in mind, that if Gray's
Elegy did not originally come out in this Collection in 1755, various other poems of great
merit and considerable popularity did then make their earliest appearance.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

Sept. 1850.

P.S. My attention has been directed to the subject of Gray's Poems, and particularly to his
Elegy, by a recent pilgrimage I made to Stoke Poges, which is only five or six miles from this
neighbourhood. The church and the poet's monument to his mother are worth a much longer walk;
but the mausoleum to Gray, in the immediate vicinity, is a preposterous edifice. The residence
of Lady Cobham has been lamentably modernised.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGH HOLLAND AND HIS WORKS.

The name of Hugh Holland has been handed down to posterity in connexion with that of our immortal
bard; but few know anything of him beyond his commendatory verses prefixed to the first folio
of Shakspeare.

He was born at Denbigh in 1558, and educated at Westminster School while Camden taught there.
In 1582 he matriculated at Baliol College, Oxford; and about 1590 he succeeded to a Fellowship
at Trinity College, Cambridge. Thence he travelled into Italy, and at Rome was guilty of several
indiscretions by the freedom of his conversations. He next went to Jerusalem to pay his devotions
at the Holy Sepulchre, and on his return touched at Constantinople, where he received a reprimand
from the English ambassador for the former freedom of his tongue. At his return to England,
he retired to Oxford, and, according to Wood, spent some years there for the sake of the public
library. He died in July, 1633, and was buried in Westminster Abbey, "in the south crosse aisle,
neere the dore of St. Benet's Chapell," but no inscription now remains to record the event.

Whalley, in Gifford's Jonson (1. cccxiv.), says, speaking of Hugh Holland--

    "He wrote several things, amongst which is the life of Camden;
    but none of them, I believe, have been ever published."

Holland published two works, the titles of which are as follows, and perhaps others which I
am not aware of:--

1. "Monumenta Sepulchralia Sancti Pauli. Lond. 1613. 4to."

2. "A Cypres Garland for the Sacred Forehead of our late Soveraigne King James. Lond. 1625. 4to."

The first is a catalogue of the monuments, inscriptions, and epitaphs in the Cathedral Church
of St. Paul, which Nicolson calls "a mean and dull performance." It was, at any rate, very
popular, being printed again in the years 1616, 1618, and 1633.

The second is a poetical tract of twelve leaves, of the greatest possible rarity.

Holland also printed commendatory verses before a curious musical work, entitled Parthenia,
or the Maydenhead of the First Musick for the Virginalls, 1611; and a copy of Latin verses
before Dr. Alexander's Roxana, 1632.

In one of the Lansdowne MSS. are preserved the following verses written upon the death of Prince
Henry, by "Hugh Hollande, fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge:"--

  "Loe, where he shineth yonder
  A fixed Star in heaven,
  Whose motion here came under
  None of the planets seven.
  If that the Moone should tender
  The Sun her love, and marry,
  They both could not engender
  So sweet a star as HARRY."

Our author was evidently a man of some poetical fancy, and if not worthy to be classed "among
the chief of English poets," he is at least entitled to a niche in the temple of fame.

My object in calling attention to this long forgotten author is, to gain some information respecting
his manuscript works. According to Wood, they consist of--1. Verses in Description of the chief
Cities of Europe; 2. Chronicle of Queen Elizabeth's reign; 3. Life of William Camden.

Can any of your readers say in whose possession, {266} or in what library, any of the above
mentioned MSS. are at the present time? I should also feel obliged for any communication respecting
Hugh Holland or his works, more especially frown original sources, or books not easily accessible.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARVEY'S CLAIM TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD.

I have both a Note and a Query about Harvey and the circulation of the blood (Vol. ii., p.
187.). The Note refers to Philostratus (Life of Apollorius, p. 461., ed. 1809), Nouvelles de
la République des Lettres, June, 1684, xi.; and Dutens pp. 157-341. 4to. ed. 1796. I extract
the passage from Les Nouvelles:--

    "On voit avec plaisir un passage d'André Cæsalpinus qui contient
    fort clairement la doctrine de la circrilation. Il est tiré de
    ses Questions sur la médecine imprimées l'an 1593. Jean
    Leonicenas ajoûte que le père Paul découvrit la circulation du
    sang, et les valvules des veines, mais qu'il n'osa pas en
    parler, de peur d'exciter contre luy quelque tempête. Il n'etois
    déjà que trop suspect, et il n'eut fallu que ce nouveau paradoxe
    pour le transformer en hérétique dans le pais d'inquisition. Si
    bien qu'il ne communiqua son secret qu'au seul Aquapendente, qui
    n'osant s'exposer à l'envie.... Il attendit à l'heure de sa mort
    pour mettre le livre qu'il avoit composé touchant les valvules
    des veines entre les mains de la république de Venise, et comme
    les moindres nouveautez font peur en cc pais-là, le livre fut
    caché dans le billiothèque de Saint Marc. Mais parcequ'
    Aquapendente ne fit pas difficulté de s'ouvrir à un jeune
    Anglois fort curieux nommé Harvée, qui étudioit sous lui a
    Padouë, et qu'en même temps le père Paul fit a même confidence à
    l'Ambassadeur d'Angleterre, ces deux Anglois de retour chez eux,
    et se voyant en pais de liberté, publièrent ce dogme, et l'ayant
    confirmé par plusieurs expériences, s'en attribuèrent toute la
    gloire."

The Query is, what share Harvey had in the discovery attributed to him?

W.W.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Bernardus Patricius.--Some writers mention Bernardus Patricius as a follower of Copernicus,
about the time of Galileo. Who was he?

M.

Meaning of Hanger.--Can any one of your readers inform me, what is the meaning of the word
hanger, so frequently occurring in the names of places in Bedfordshire, such as Panshanger?

W. Anderson

Cat and Bagpipes.--In studying some letters which passed between two distinguished philosophers
of the last century, I have found in one epistle a request that the writer might be remembered
"to his friends at the Crown and Anchor, and the Cat and Bagpipes." The letter was addressed
to a party in London, where doubtless, both those places of entertainment were. The Crown and
Anchor was the house where the Royal Society Club held its convivial meetings. Can you inform
me where the Cat and Bagpipes was situated, and what literary and scientific club met there?
The name seems to have been a favourite one for taverns, and, if mistake not, is common in
Ireland. Is it a corruption of some foreign title, as so many such names are, or merely a grotesque
and piquant specimen of sign-board literature?

Quasimodo.

Andrew Becket.--A.W. Hammond will feel obliged for any information respecting Andrew Becket,
Esq., who died 19th January, 1843, æt. 95, and to whose memory there is a handsome monument
in Kennington Church. According to that inscription, he was "ardently devoted to the pursuits
of literature," personally acquainted in early life with the most distinguished authors of
his day, long the intimate friend of David Garrick, "and a profound commentator on the dramatic
works of Shakspeare." Can any of the learned readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES" satisfy this Query?

Laurence Minot.--Is any other MS. of Minot known, besides the one from which Ritson drew his
text? Is there any other edition of this poet besides Ritson's, and the reprints thereof?

E.S. JACKSON.

Modena Family.--When did Victor Amadeus, King of Sardinia, die? When did his daughter, Mary
Duchess of Modena, die, (the mother of the present Duke of Modena, and through whom he is the
direct heir of the House of Stuart)?

L.M.M.R.

Bamboozle.--What is the etymology of bamboozle, used as a verb?

L.M.M.R.

Butcher's Blue Dress.--What is the origin of the custom, which seems all but universal in England,
for butchers to wear a blouse or frock of blue colour? Though so common in this country as
to form a distinctive mark of the trade, and to be almost a butcher's uniform, it is, I believe,
unknown on the continent. Is it a custom which has originate in some supposed utility, or in
the official dress of a guild or company, or in some accident of which a historical notice
has been preserved?

L.

Hatchment and Atchievement.--Can any one of the readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES" tell me how
comes the corruption hatchment from atchievement? Ought the English word to be spelt with a
t, or thus, achievement? Why are hatchments put up in churches and on houses?

W. ANDERSON. {267}

"Te colui Virtutem."--Who is the author of the line--

  "Te colui virtutem ut rem ast tu nomen inane es?"

It is a translation of part of a Greek tragic fragment, quoted, according to Dio Cassius, by
Brutus just before his death. As much as is here translated is also to be found in Plutarch
De Superstitione.

E.

"Illa suavissima Vita."--Where does "Illa suavissima vita indies sentire se fieri meliorem"
come from?

E.

Christianity, Early Influence of.--"The beneficial influence of the Christian clergy during
the first thousand years of the Christian era."

What works can be recommended on the above subject?

X.Y.Z.

Wraxen, Meaning of.--What is the origin and meaning of the word wraxen, which was used by a
Kentish woman on being applied to by a friend of mine to send her children to the Sunday-school,
in the following sentence?--"Why, you see, they go to the National School all the week, and
get so wraxen, that I cannot send them to the Sunday School too."

G.W. Skyring.

Saint, Legend of a.--Can any of your correspondents inform me where I can find the account
of some saint who, when baptizing a heathen, inadvertently pierced the convert's foot with
the point of his crozier. The man bore the pain without flinching, and when the occurrence
was discovered, he remarked that he thought it was part of the ceremony?

J.Y.C.

Land Holland--Farewell.--In searching some Court Rolls a few days since, I found some land
described as "Land Holland" or "Hollandland." I have been unable to discover the meaning of
this expression, and should be glad if any of your correspondents can help me.

In the same manor there is custom for the tenant to pay a sum as a farewell to the lord on
sale or alienation: this payment is in addition to the ordinary fine, &c. Query the origin
and meaning of this?

J.B.C.

Stepony Ale.--Chamberlayne, in his Present State of England (part. i. p. 51., ed. 1677), speaking
of the "Dyet" of the people, thus enumerates the prevailing beverages of the day:--

    "Besides all sorts of the best wines from Spain, France, Italy,
    Germany, Grecia, there are sold in London above twenty sorts of
    other drinks: as brandy, coffee, chocolate, tea, aromatick, mum,
    sider, perry, beer, ale; many sorts of ales very different, as
    cock, stepony, stickback, Hull, North-Down, Sambidge, Betony,
    scurvy-grass, sage-ale, &c. A piece of wantonness whereof none
    of our ancestors were ever guilty."

It will be observed that the ales are named in some instances from localities, and in others
from the herbs of which they were decoctions. Can any of your readers tell me anything of Stepony
ale? Was it ale brewed at Stepney?

James T. Hammack

"Regis ad Exemplar."--Can you inform me whence the following line is taken?

  "Regis ad exemplar totus componitur orbis."

Q.Q.Q.

"La Caconacquerie".--Will one of your numerous correspondents be kind enough to inform me what
is the true signification and derivation of the word "caconac?" D'Alembert, writing to Voltaire
concerning Turgot, says:

    "You will find him an excellent caconac, though he has reasons
    for not avowing it:--la caconacquerie ne mène pas à la fortune."

Ardern.

London Dissenting Ministers: Rev. Thomas Tailer.--Not being entirely successful in my Queries
with regard to "London Dissenting Ministers" (Vol. i., pp. 383. 444. 454.), I will state a
circumstance which, possibly, may assist some one of your correspondents in furnishing an answer
to the second of those inquiries.

In the lines immediately referred to, where certain Nonconformist ministers of the metropolis
are described under images taken from the vegetable world, the late Rev. Thomas Tailer (of
Carter Lane), whose voice was feeble and trembling, is thus spoken of:--

  "Tailer tremulous as aspen leaves."

But in verses afterwards circulated, if not printed, the censor was rebuked as follows:--

  "Nor tell of Tailer's trembling voice so weak,
  While from his lips such charming accents break,
  And every virtue, every Christian grace,
  Within his bosom finds a ready place."

No encomium could be more deserved, none more seasonably offered or more appropriately conveyed.
I knew Mr. Tailer, and am pleased in cherishing recollections of him.

W.

Mistletoe as a Christmas Evergreen.--Can any of your readers inform me at what period of time
the mistletoe came to be recognised as a Christmas evergreen? I am aware it played a great
part in those ceremonies of the ancient Druids which took place towards the end of the year,
but I cannot find any allusion to it, in connexion with the Christian festival, before the
time of Herrick. You are of course aware, that there are still in existence some five or six
very curious old carols, of as early, or even an earlier date than the fifteenth century, in
praise of the holly or the ivy, which said carols used to be sung during the Christmas {268}
festivities held by our forefathers but I can discover no allusion even to the mistletoe for
two centuries later. If any of your readers should be familiar with any earlier allusion in
prose, but still more particularly in verse, printed or in manuscript, I shall feel obliged
by their pointing it out.

V.

Poor Robin's Almanacks.--I am anxious to ascertain in which public or private library is to
be found the most complete collection of Poor Robin's Almanacks: through the medium of your
columns, I may, perhaps, glean the desired information.

V.

Sirloin.--When on a visit, a day or two since, to the very interesting ruin (for so it must
be called) of Haughton Castle, near Blackburn, Lancashire, I heard that the origin of this
word was the following freak of James I. in his visit to the castle; a visit, by the way, which
is said to have ruined the host, and to have been not very profitable even to all his descendants.
A magnificent loin of meat being placed on the table before his Majesty, the King was so struck
with its size and excellence, that he drew his sword, and cried out, "By my troth, I'll knight
thee, Sir Loin!" and then and there the title was given; a title which has been honoured, unlike
other knighthoods, by a goodly succession of illustrious heirs. Can any of your correspondents
vouch for the truth of this?

H.C. Bowden, Manchester.

Thomson of Esholt.--In the reign of Henry VIII. arms were granted to Henry Thomson, of Esholt,
co. York, one of that monarch's gentlemen-at-arms at Boulogne. The grant was made by Laurence
Dalton, Norroy. The shield was--Per fesse embattled, ar. and sa., three falcons, belted, countercharged--a
bend sinister. Crest: An armed arm, embowed, holding a lance, erect. Families of the name of
Thompson, bearing the same shield, have been seated at Kilham, Scarborough, Escrick, and other
places in Yorkshire. My inquiries are,--

1. Will any of your readers by kind enough to inform me where any mention is made of this grant,
and the circumstances under which it was made?

2. Whether any ancient monuments, or heraldic bearings of the family, are still extant in any
parts of Yorkshire?

3. Whether any work on Yorkshire genealogies exists, and what is the best to be consulted?

JAYTEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Pension (Vol. ii., p. 134.).--In the Dictionnaire Universelle, 1775, vol. ii. p. 203., I find
the following explanation of the French word Pension:--

    "Somme qu'on donne pour la nourriture et le logement de
    quelqu'un. Il se dit aussi du lieu où l'on donne à manger."

May not the meeting of the benchers have derived its name for their dining-room in which they
assembled?

BRAYBROOKE.

Execution of Charles I. (Vol. ii., pp. 72. 110-140. 158.).--In Lilly's
History of his Life and Times, I find the following interesting
account in regard to the vizored execution of Charles I., being part of
the evidence he gave when examined before the first parliament of King
Charles II. respecting the matter. Should any of your correspondents be
able to substantiate this, or produce more conclusive evidence in
determining who the executioner was, I shall be extremely obliged. The same thing Spavin since has often related to
    me, when we were alone."

R.W.E. Cheltenham.

Paper Hangings (Vol. ii., p. 134.).--"It was on the walls of this drawing-room (the king's
at Kensington Palace) that the then new art of paper-hangings, in imitation of the old velvet
flock, was displayed with an effect that soon led to the adoption of so cheap and elegant a
manufacture, in preference to the original rich material from which it was copied."--W.H. Pyne's
Royal Residences, vol. ii. p. 75.

M.W.

Black-guard.--There are frequent entries among those of deaths of persons attached to the Palace
of Whitehall, in the registers of St. Margaret's, Westminster, of "----, one of the blake garde."
about the year 1566, and later. In the Churchwarden's Accompts we find--

    "1532. Pd. for licence of 4 torchis for Black Garde, vj. d."

The royal Halberdiers carried black bills. (Grose, Milit. Antiq., vol. i. p. 124.) In 1584
they behaved {269} with great cruelty in Ireland. (Cornp. Peck's Des. Curios., vol. i. p. 155.)
So Stainhurst, in his Description, says of bad men: "They are taken for no better than rakehells,
or the devil's blacke guarde."--Chap. 8. Perhaps, in distinction to the gaily dressed military
guard, the menial attendants in a royal progress were called black-guards from their dull appearance.

I remember a story current in Dublin, of a wicked wag telling a highly respectable old lady,
who was asking, where were the quarters of the guards, in which corps her son was a private,
to inquire at the lodge of Trinity College if he was not within those learned walls, as the
"black guards were lying there."

M.W.

Pilgrims' Road (Vol. ii., p. 237.).--Your correspondent S.H., in noticing the old track "skirting
the base of the chalk hills," and known by the name of the "Pilgrims' Road," has omitted to
state that its commencement is at Oxford,--a fact of importance, inasmuch as that the Archbishops
of Canterbury had there a handsome palace (the ruins of which still exist), which is said to
have been the favourite residence of Thomas à Becket. The tradition in the county thereupon
is, that his memory was held in such sanctity in that neighbourhood as to cause a vast influx
of pilgrims annually from thence to his shrine at Canterbury; and the line of road taken by
them can still be traced, though only portions of it are now used as a highway. The direction,
however, in which it runs makes it clear (as S.H., no doubt, is aware) that it cannot be Chaucer's
road.

While on the subject of old roads, I may add that a tradition here exists that the direct road
between London and Tunbridge did not pass through Sevenoaks; and a narrow lane which crosses
the Pilgrims' road near Everham is pointed out as the former highway, and by which Evelyn must
have been journeying (passing close, indeed, to the seat of his present descendant at St. Clere)
when he met with that amusing robber-adventure at Procession Oak.

M(2).

Pilgrims' Road to Canterbury.--In the Athenæum of Nov. 2nd, 1844, there is a notice of Remarks
upon Wayside Chapels; with Observations on the Architecture and present State of the Chantry
on Wakefield Bridge: By John Chessell and Charles Buckler--in which the reviewer says--

    "In our pedestrianism we have traced the now desolate ruins of
    several of these chapels along the old pilgrims' road to
    Canterbury."

If this writer would give us the results of his pedestrianism, it would be acceptable to all
the lovers of Chaucer. I do not know whether PHILO-CHAUCER will find anything to his purpose
in the pamphlet reviewed.

E.S. JACKSON.

Combs buried with the Dead.--In Vol. ii., p. 230., the excellent vicar of Morwenstow asks the
reason why combs are found in the graves of St. Cuthbert and others, monks, in the cathedral
church of Durham. I imagine that they were the combs used at the first tonsure of the novices,
to them a most interesting memorial of that solemn rite through life, and from touching affection
to the brotherhood among whom they had dwelt, buried with them at their death.

M.W.

The Comb, concerning "the origin and intent" of which MR. HAWKER (Vol. ii., p. 230.) seeks
information, was for ritual use; and its purposes are fully described in Dr. Rock's Church
of our Fathers, t. ii. p. 122., &c.

LITURGICUS.

Aërostation.--C.B.M. will find in the Athenæum for August 10th, 1850, a notice of a book on
this subject.

E.S. JACKSON.

St. Thomas of Lancaster (Vol. i., p. 181.).--MR. R.M. MILNES desires information relative to
"St. Thomas of Lancaster." This personage was Earl of Leicester as well as Earl of Lancaster;
and I find in the archives of this borough numerous entries relative to him,--of payments made
to him by the burgesses. Of these mention is made in a History of Leicester recently published.
The most curious fact I know of is, that on the dissolution of the monasteries here, several
relics of St. Thomas, among others, his felt hat, was exhibited. The hat was considered a great
remedy for the headache!

JAYTEE.

Smoke Money (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--"Anciently, even in England, were Whitsun farthings, or smoke
farthings, which were a composition for offerings made in Whitsun week, by every man who occupied
a house with a chimney, to the cathedral of the diocese in which he lived."--Audley's Companion
to the Almanac, p. 76.

Pentecostals, or Whitsun Farthings, are mentioned by Pegge as being paid in 1788 by the parishioners
of the diocese of Lichfield, in aid of the repairs of the cathedral, to the dean and chapter;
but he makes no allusion to the word smoke, adding only that in this case the payment went
by the name of Chad-pennies, or Chad-farthings, the cathedral there being dedicated to St. Chad.

C.I.R.

Robert Herrick (Vol. i., p. 291.).--MR. MILNER BARRY states that he found an entry of the burial
of the poet Herrick in the parish books of Dean Prior. As MR. BARRY seems interested in the
poet, I would inform him that a voluminous collection of family letters of early date is now
in the possession of William Herrick, Esq., of Beaumanor Park, the present representative of
that ancient and honourable house.

JAYTEE.

Guildhalls.--The question in Vol. i., p. 320., relative to guildhalls, provokes an inquiry
into {270} guilds. In the erudite and instructive work of Wilda on the Guild System of the
Middle Ages (Gildenwesen im Mittelälter) will be found to be stated that guilds were associations
of various kinds,--convivial, religions, and mercantile, and so on; and that places of assembly
were adopted by them. A guild-house where eating and drinking took place, was to be met with
in most villages in early times: and these, I fancy, were the guild-halls. On this head consult
Hone's Every-day Book, vol. ii. p. 670., and elsewhere, in connexion with Whitsuntide holidays.

JAYTEE.

Abbé Strickland (Vol. ii., pp. 198. 237.).--The fullest account of the Abbé Strickland, Bishop
of Namur, is to be found in Lord Hervey's Memoirs (Vol. i., p. 391.), and a most curious account
it is of that profligate intriguer.

C.

Long Lonkin (Vol. ii., pp. 168. 251.).--This ballad does not relate to Cumberland, but to Northumberland.
This error was committed by Miss Landon (in the Drawing-room Scrap-book for 1835), to whom
a lady of this town communicated the fragment through the medium of a friend. Its real locality
is a ruined tower, seated on the corner of an extensive earth-work surrounded by a moat, on
the western side of Whittle Dean, near Ovingham. Since this period, I have myself taken down
many additional verses from the recitation of the adjacent villagers, and will be happy to
afford any further information to your inquirer, SELEUCUS.

G. BOUCHIER RICHARDSON. Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sept. 7. 1850.

Havock (Vol. ii., p. 215.).--The presumed object of literary men being the investigation of
truth, your correspondent JARLTZBERG will, I trust, pardon me for suggesting that his illustration
of the word havock is incomplete, and especially with reference to the line of Shakspeare which
he has quoted:

  "Cry havock! and let slip the dogs of war."

Grose, in his History of English Armour, vol. ii. p. 62., says that havok was the word given
as a signal for the troops to disperse and pillage, as may be learned from the following article
in the Droits of the Marshal, vol. ii. p. 229., wherein it is declared, that--

    "In the article of plunder, all the sheep and hogs belong to
    such private soldiers as can take them; and that on the word
    havok being cried, every one might seize his part; but this
    probably was only a small part of the licence supposed to be
    given by the word."

He also refers to the ordinance of Richard II.

In agreeing with your correspondent that the use of this word was the
signal for general massacre, unlimited slaughter, and giving no quarter,
as well as taking plunder in the manner described above, the omission of
which I have to complain is, that, in stating no one was to raise the
cry, under penalty of losing his head, he did not add the words, "the
king excepted."
                                  Julius Cæsar Act iii.

It is not at this moment in my power to assist F.W. with the reference to the history of Bishop
Berkeley's giant, though it exists somewhere in print. The subject of the experiment was a
healthy boy, who died in the end, in consequence of over-growth, promoted (as far as my recollection
serves me) principally by a peculiar diet.

W(1).

Becket's Mother.--I do not pretend to explain the facts mentioned by MR. FOSS (Vol. ii., p.
106.), that the hospital founded in honour of Becket was called "The Hospital of St. Thomas
the Martyr, of Acon;" and that he was himself styled "St. Thomas Acrenis, or of Acre;" but
I believe that the true explanation must be one which would not be a hindrance to the rejection
of the common story as to the Archbishop's birth. If these titles were intended to connect
the Saint with Acre in Syria, they may have originated after the legend had become popular.
But it seems to me more likely, that, like some other city churches and chapels, that of St.
Thomas got its designation from something quite unconnected with the history of the patron.
In particular, I would ask what is the meaning of "St. Nicolas Acons?" And may not the same
explanation (whatever it be) serve for "St. Thomas of Acon?" Or the hospital may have been
built on some noted "acre" (like Long Acre and Pedlars Acre); and if afterwards churches in
other places were consecrated to St. Thomas under the designation "of Acre," (as to which point
I have no information), the churches of "our Lady of Loretto," scattered over various countries,
will supply a parallel. As to the inference which Mr. Nichols (Pilgrimages, p. 120.) draws
from the name Acrensis, that Becket was born at Acre, I must observe that it introduces a theory
which is altogether new, and not only opposed to the opinion that the Archbishop was of English
or Norman descent on both sides, but essentially contradictory of the legend as to the fair
Saracen who came from the East in search of her lover.

J.C.R.

Watching the Sepulchre (Vol. i., pp. 318. 354. 403.).--In the parish books of Leicester various
entries respecting the Sepulchre occur. In the year 1546, when a sale took place of the furniture
of St. Martin's Church, the "Sepulchre light" was {271} sold to Richard Rainford for 21s. 10d.
In the reign of Queen Mary gatherings were made for the "Sepulchre lights;" timber for making
the lights cost 5s.; the light itself, 4s.; and painting the Sepulchre, and a cloth for "our
lady's altar," cost 1s. 10d. Facts like these might be multiplied.

JAYTEE.

Portraits of Charles I. in Churches (Vol. i., pp. 137. 184.).--In reference to this I have
to state, that in the south aisle of the church of St. Martin, in Leicester, a painting of
this kind is yet to be seen, or was lately. It was executed by a Mr. Rowley, for 10l., in the
year 1686. It represents the monarch in a kneeling attitude.

JAYTEE.

Joachim, the French Ambassador (Vol. ii., p. 229.).--In Rapin's History of England I find this
ambassador described as "Jean-Joachim de Passau, Lord of Vaux." This may assist AMICUS.

J.B.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The Rev. Mackenzie Walcott, M.A., of Exeter College, Oxford, whose pleasant gossiping Memorials
of Westminster, and History of St. Margaret's Church, are no doubt familiar to many of our
readers, is, as an old Wykehamist, collecting information for a "History of Commoners and the
Two S. Marie Winton Colleges;" and will feel obliged by lists of illustrious alumni, and any
notes, archæological and historical, about that noble school, which will be duly acknowledged.

The Cambrian Archæological Association, which was established in 1846 for the purpose of promoting
the study and preservation of the antiquities of Wales and the Marches, held its fourth anniversary
meeting in the ancient and picturesque town of Dolgelly, during the week commencing the 26th
ultimo. The Association is endeavouring to extend its usefulness by enlarging the number of
its members; and as its subscribing members receive in return for their yearly pound, not only
the Society's Journal, the Archæologia Cambrensis but also the annual volume of valuable archæological
matter published by the Association, we cannot doubt but their exertions will meet the sympathy
and patronage of all who take an interest in the national and historical remains of the principality.

The preceding paragraph was scarcely finished when we received proof of the utility of the
Association in Mr. Freeman's volume, entitled Remarks on the Architecture of Llandaff Cathedral,
with an Essay towards a History of the Fabric--a volume which, as we learn from the preface,
had its origin in the observations on some of the more singular peculiarities of the fabric
made by the author at the Cardiff meeting of the Association in 1849. These remarks were further
developed in a paper in the Archæologia Cambrensis; and have now been expanded into the present
descriptive and historical account of a building which, to use Mr. Freeman's words, "in many
respects, both of its history and architecture, stands quite alone among English churches."
Mr. Freeman's ability to do justice to such a subject is well known: and his work will therefore
assuredly find a welcome from the numerous body of students of church architecture now to be
found in this country; and to their judgments we leave it.

Notes on Bishop Jeremy Taylor's Works. A reprint being called for of vol. vi. of the present
edition of Bishop Taylor's works, the Editor will be glad of any assistance towards verifying
the references which have been omitted. The volume is to go to press early in October.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson will commence on Monday next a six days' sale of valuable books
in all classes of literature; oriental, and other manuscripts; autograph letters; engravings,
miniatures, paintings, &c.

Messrs. Southgate and Barrett will sell on Tuesday next some fine portraits and engravings;
together with a very interesting and extensive collection of nearly 200 original proclamations
(extending from 1631 to 1695), two books printed by Pynson, unknown to bibliographers (viz.
Aphthonii Sophistæ Præxercitamenta and Ciceronis Orationes Philippicæ and a few valuable MSS).

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

ESSAYS, SCRIPTURAL, MORAL, AND LOGICAL, by W. and T. Ludlam. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1807.

ELDERFIELD (C.), DISQUISITIONS ON REGENERATION, BAPTISM, &c., 4to. London, 1653.

DODWELL (HENRY, M.A.), DISCOURSE PROVING FROM SCRIPTURES THAT THE SOUL IS A PRINCIPLE NATURALLY
MORTAL, &c.

THE TALE OF A TUB REVERSED, for the universal Improvement of Mankind, with a character of the
Author.

REFLECTIONS ON MR. BURCHET'S MEMOIRS, or, Remarks on his Account of Captain Wilmot's Expedition
to the West Indies, by Col. Luke Lillingston. 1704. [Two copies wanted.]

SEVEN CHAMPIONS OF CHRISTENDUM. [Any Edition before 1700.]

CHAUCER'S CANTERBURY TALES AND OTHER POEMS, 2 vols. 12mo.

W.A. will find an article on "The Owl was once a Baker's Daughter," quoted by Shakspeare, in
one of MR. THOMS' Papers on the FOLK LORE OF SHAKSPEARE, published in the Athenæum October
and November 1847.

       *       *       *       *       * {272}

JUNIUS IDENTIFIED.

In One Volume 8vo., price 6s., bds., (published in 1818 at 14s.). JUNIUS IDENTIFIED with SIR
PHILIP FRANCIS. By JOHN TAYLOR. Second Edition, with the Appendix, containing the Plates of
Handwriting.

London: TAYLOR, WALTON, and MABERLY, 28. Upper Gower-street; and 27. Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICA AND IRELAND.--MILLER'S CATALOGUE OF BOOKS, Number XI. for 1850, contains many curious
and interesting books on the above Countries with the usual valuable Miscellanies in all departments,
Published this day, GRATIS. 1848.

"He is the pioneer of the beautiful."--Manchester Examiner.

FALLACY OF GHOSTS, DREAMS, AND OMENS, with Stories of Witchcraft, Life in Death, and Monomania,
by CHARLES OLLIER, 12mo., cloth. gilt, with Illustrations by G. Measom, 250 pages of amusing
letterpress, only 2s.

JOHN MILLER, 43. Chandos-street, Trafalgar-square.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Engravings, early Printed Books, Manuscripts, &c.

SOUTHGATE and BARRETT will SELL by AUCTION, at their Rooms, 22. Fleet-street, on Tuesday, September
24, at 12. PORTRAITS and ENGRAVlNGS. incliding many proofs, a very interesting and extensive
collection of original proclamations, two books printed by Pynson unknown to bibliographers:
also a few very valuable Manuscripts relating to the counties of Stafford, Salon, Leicester,
Wilts, &c., ancient statutes upon vellum. heraldic MSS., &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Published, 8vo., price 8s., with numerous Illustrations by Messrs. O. Jerrit and H. Shaw,

REMARKS ON THE ARCHITECTURE OF LLANDAFF CATHEDRAL; with an Essay towards a History of the Fabric.
By EDWARD A. FREEMAN, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford; author of the "History
of Architecture."

London: W. PICKERING, 177. Piccadilly. Tenby: R. MASON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Published, price 5s., in post 8vo., cloth lettered; if sent by Post. 6s.

THE POPE; Considered in his RELATIONS WITH THE CHURCH, TEMPORAL SOVEREIGNTIES, SEPARATED CHURCHES,
and the CAUSE OF CIVILISATION. By COUNT JOSEPH DE MAISTRE. Translated by the Rev. AENEAS MC
D. DAWSON. Embellished with a Portrait of His Holiness Pope Pius IX.

London: C. DOLMAN, 61. New Bond-street; and 48A. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PARLOUR LIBRARY, One Shilling each Volume.

The Publishers beg to state that all G.P.R. JAMES's works lately out of print are again reprinted,
and may be had of every bookseller and at all the railway stations. Works by the following
popular authors have also been published in the "Parlour Library:"--

A. Lamartine G.P.R. James Washington Irving Miss Mitford Author of "Emilia Wyndham" Miss Austen
William Carleton Gerald Griffin Mary Howitt T.C. Grattan Mrs. S.C. Hall Rodolph Toppfer Leitch
Ritchie The O'Hara Family W. Meinhold Alex. Dumas

SIMMS and M'INTYRE, 13. Paternoster Row, London, and Belfast. Sold at all the Railway Stations.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published by GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet-street.

"Highly creditable to the Scholarship of Shrewsbury, and indeed of England, and we wish it
heartily success."--Guardian.

RULES FOR OVIDIAN VERSE, with some Hints on the Transition to the Virgilian Hexameter, and
an Introductory Preface. Edited by JAMES TATE, A.M., Master of the Grammar School, Richmond.
8vo. sewed, 1s. 6d.

FIRST STEPS TO LATIN VERSIFICATION, being an Analysis of the Scansion and Structure of the
Ovidian Verse. Price 6d. on sheet; folded in cloth, 1s.

Just Published, fcp. 8vo., price 4s. 6d., cloth,

CICERONIS CATO MAJOR, sive de Senectute, Laelius, site de Amicitia. et Epistolæ Selectæ; with
English Notes and an Index. By GEORGE LONG. Being a second volume of the Grammar School Classics.

"Mr. George Long has edited the De Senectute, and De Amicitia, together with some of the Epistles
of Cicero, and has contributed a very clever preface upon the best way of teaching foreign,
and especially classical, languages. Mr. Long's ability and reputation render any writing of
his important, and his name is a pledge for the accuracy and value of the edition."--Guardian.

Also, a new edition, price 5s.,

XENOPHON'S ANABASIS, with English Notes and Three Maps. By the Rev. J.F. MACMICHAEL, Master
of the Grammar School, Burton-on-Trent. Being the first volume of Grammar School Classics.

"We can confidently recommend this as the best school edition, and we feel certain that it
will satisfy every reasonable demand that can be made."--Classical Museum.

12mo., cloth, 2s. 6d.

SELECTIONS FROM OVID; AMORES, TRISTIA, HEROIDES, METAMORPHOSES: with prefatory remarks. This
Selection is intended to afford an introduction, at once easy and unobjectionable, to a knowledge
of the Latin Language, after a boy has become well acquainted with the declensions of nouns
and pronouns, and the ordinary forms of verbs. 1850.

