As Hanway died in 1786, and he is said to have carried an Umbrella for thirty years, the date
of its first use by him may be set down at about 1750. For some time Umbrellas were objects
of derision, especially from the hackney coachmen, who saw in their use an invasion on the
vested rights of the fraternity; just as hackney coaches had once been looked upon by the watermen,
who thought people should travel by river, not by road. John Macdonald, perhaps the only footman
(always excepting the great Mr. James Yellowplush) who ever wrote a memoir of himself, relates
that in 1770, he used to be greeted with the shout, "Frenchman, Frenchman! why don't you call
a coach?" whenever he went out with his "fine silk umbrella, newly brought from Spain." Records
of the Umbrella's first appearance in other English works have also been preserved. In Glasgow
(according to the narrative in Cleland's "Statistical Account of Glasgow ") "the late Mr. John
Jamieson, surgeon, returning from Paris, brought an Umbrella with him, which was the first
seen in this city. The doctor, who was a man of great humour, took pleasure in relating to
me how he was stared at with his Umbrella." In Edinburgh Dr. Spens is said to have been the
first to carry one. In Bristol a red Leghorn Umbrella appeared about 1780, according to a writer
in Notes and Queries, and created there no small sensation. The trade between Bristol and Leghorn
may account for this. Some five-and-thirty years ago it is said that an old lady was living
in Taunton who recollected when there were only two Umbrellas in the town, one of which belonged
to the clergyman. When he went to church, he used to hang the Umbrella up in the porch, to
the edification and delight of his parishioners.

Horace Walpole tells how Dr. Shebbeare (who was prosecuted for seditious writings in 1758)
"stood in the pillory, having a footman holding an umbrella to keep off the rain." For permitting
this indulgence to a malefactor, Beardman, the under-sheriff, was punished.

It is difficult to conceive how the Umbrella could come into general use, owing to the state
in which the streets of London were up to a comparatively recent period. The same amusing author
to whom we owe the description of Jonas Hanway, gives the following account of them at the
time his work was published:--

"It is not easy to convey to a person who has not seen the streets of London before they were
uniformly paved, a tolerable idea of their inconvenience and uncleanliness; the signs extending
on both sides of the way into the streets, at unequal distances from the houses, that they
might not intercept each other, greatly obstructed the view; and, what is of more consequence
in a crowded city, prevented the free circulation of the air. The footpaths were universally
incommoded--even when they were so narrow as only to admit one person passing at a time--by
a row of posts set on edge next the carriage-way. He whose urgent business would not permit
of his keeping pace with the gentleman of leisure before him, turned out between the two posts
before the door of some large house into the carriage-way. When he perceived danger moving
toward him, he wished to return within the protection of the row of posts; but there was commonly
a rail continued from the top of one post to that of another, sometimes for several houses
together, in which case he was obliged to run back to the first inlet, or climb over, or creep
under the railing, in attempting which, he might be fortunate if he escaped with no other injury
than what proceeded from dirt; if, intimidated by the danger he escaped, he afterwards kept
within the boundary of the posts and railing, he was obliged to put aside the travellers before
him, whose haste was less urgent than his, and, these resisting, made his journey truly a warfare.

"The French are reproached, even to a proverb, for the neglect of the convenience of foot-passengers
in their metropolis, by not providing a separate path for them; but, great as is the exposure
to dirt in Paris, for want of a footpath, which their many porte-cochères seem likely for ever
to prevent, in the more important article of danger, the City of London was, at this period,
at least on a par. How comfortless must be the sensations of an unfortunate female, stopped
in the street on a windy day under a large old sign loaded with lead and iron in full swing
over, her head? and perhaps a torrent of rain and dirty water falling near from a projecting
spout, ornamented with the mouth and teeth of a dragon. These dangers and distresses are now
at an end; and we may think of them as a sailor does of a storm, which has subsided, but the
advantages derived from the present uniformity and cleanliness can be known only in their full
extent by comparing them with the former inconveniences."

When to this description is added the fact that the hoop petticoat and another article of dress
monopolised the whalebone, it will be seen how much had to be got over before an Umbrella could
be carried out by the citizens of London, as a walking-staff, with satisfactory assurance of
protection in case of a shower. The earliest English Umbrellas, we must also remember, were
made of oiled silk, very clumsy and difficult to open when wet; the stick and furniture were
heavy and inconvenient, and the article very expensive.

At the end of the century allusions to the Umbrella are not infrequent. Cowper, in his "Task"
I well remember, also, an amusing description given by the late Mr. Warry, so many years consul
at Smyrna, of the astonishment and envy of his mother's neighbours, at Sawbridgeworth, in Hants,
where his father had a country house, when he ran home and came back with an umbrella, which
he had just brought from Leghorn, to shelter them from a pelting shower which detained them
in the church porch, after the service, on one summer Sunday. From Mr. Warry's age at the time
he mentioned this, and other circumstances in his history, I conjecture that it occurred not
later than 1775 or 1776. As Sawbridgeworth is so near London, it is evident that even then
umbrellas were at that time almost unknown."

Since this date, however, the Umbrella has come into general use, and in consequence numerous
improvements have been effected in it. The transition to the present portable form is due,
partly to the substitution of silk and gingham for the heavy and troublesome oiled silk, which
admitted of the ribs and frames being made much lighter, and also to the many ingenious mechanical
improvements in the framework, chiefly by French and English manufacturers, many of which were
patented, and to which we purpose presently to allude.

CHAPTER IV.

THE STORY OF THE PARACHUTE.

In giving an account of the Umbrella, it would not be right to omit mentioning another, and
far from legitimate use in which it has been employed by notoriety-hunting artistes--we allude
to the Parachute; and a short narration of its origin and progress may not be uninteresting
to our readers.

The Parachute commonly in use is nothing more or less than a huge Umbrella, presenting a surface
of sufficient dimension to experience from the air a resistance equal to the weight of descent,
in moving through the fluid at a velocity not exceeding that of the shock which a person can
sustain without danger or injury. It is made of silk or cotton. To the outer edge cords are
fastened, of about the same length as the diameter of the machine (24 to 28 feet). A centre
cord is attached to the apex and meets the cords from the margin, acting, in fact, as the stick
of the Umbrella. The machine is thus kept expanded during descent. The car is fastened to the
centre cord, and the whole attached to the balloon in such a manner that it may be readily
and quickly detached, either by cutting a string, or pulling a trigger. Consequently, in the
East, where the Umbrella has been from the earliest ages in familiar use, it appears to have
been occasionally employed by vaulters, to enable them to jump safely from great heights. Father
Loubère, in his curious account of Siam, relates, that a person famous in that country for
his dexterity, used to divert the King and Court by the extraordinary leaps he took, having
two Umbrellas with long slender handles, fastened to his girdle. In 1783 M. le Normand demonstrated
the utility of the Parachute; by lifting himself down from the windows of a high house at Lyons.
His idea was that it might be made a sort of fire-escape.

Blanchard was the first person who constructed a Parachute to act as a safety-guard to the
aeronaut in case of any accident. During an excursion he made from Lille, in 1785, when he
traversed, without stopping, a distance of 300 miles, he let down a Parachute with a basket
fastened to it containing a dog. This he suffered to fall from a great height, and it reached
the ground in safety.

The first Parachute descent from a balloon, however, was made by Jacques Garnerin, on the 22nd
of October, 1797, in the Park of Monceau. De la Lande, the celebrated astronomer, has furnished
a detailed and highly interesting account of this foolish experiment.

Garnerin resided in London during the short peace of 1802, and made two ascents with his balloon,
in the second of which he let himself fall, at an amazing height, with a Parachute of 23 feet
diameter. He started from an enclosure near North Audley Street, and descended after having
been seven or eight minutes in the air. After cutting himself away, he floated over Marylebone
and Somers Town, and fell in a field near St. Pancras Old Church. The oscillation was so great,
that he was thrown out of the Parachute, and narrowly escaped death. He seemed a good deal
frightened, and said that the peril was too great for endurance. One of the stays of the machine
having given way, his danger was increased. The next person who tried this dangerous experiment
was his niece, Eliza Garnerin, who descended several times in safety. Her Parachute had a large
orifice in the top, in order to check the oscillation, and this appears to have been tolerably
successful.

The next experimentalist was a person of the name of Cocking, who ended his days in a manner
unworthy his talents, through a series of lamentable mistakes. His Parachute was constructed
on the opposite principle, of a wedge-like form, and was intended to cleave through the air,
instead of offering a resistance to it. It has not yet been proved that the principle was wrong,
but the defect lay in the weakness of the materials employed in the formation of the Parachute.

On the 29th July, 1837, Mr. Cocking ascended in his new Parachute, attached to the Great Nassau
Balloon. Mr. Cocking liberated himself from the balloon, the Parachute collapsed and fell,
at a frightful rate, into a field near Lea, where poor Cocking was found with an awful wound
on his right temple. He never spoke, but died almost immediately afterwards. It is much to
be regretted that the descent was ever allowed to take place. The aeronauts themselves were
for some time in a state of imminent peril. Immediately the Parachute was cut away, the balloon
ascended with frightful velocity, owing to the ascending power it necessarily gained by being
freed from a weight of nearly 500 pounds; and had it not been that its occupants applied their
mouths to the air-bags previously provided, they must have been suffocated by the escaping
gas. When the re-action took place, the balloon had lost its buoyancy, and fell, rather than
descended, to the ground.

Mr. Hampton was the next person who attempted the experiment, and made three descents in a
Parachute in succession without injury. Undeterred by the awful fate of his predecessor, this
gentleman determined on making a Parachute descent which should prove the correctness of the
theory, and the Montpellier Gardens at Cheltenham were selected as the scene of the exploit.
Owing to the censure which was attached to the proprietors of the Vauxhall Gardens, for permitting
docking's ascent, the owners of the Gardens at Cheltenham would not suffer the experiment to
be made, and Mr. Hampton was obliged to have recourse to stratagem. As he was permitted to
display his Parachute in the manner he intended to use it, the idea suddenly flashed across
his mind that, he could carry out his long-nursed wishes. He suddenly cut the rope which kept
him down, and went off, to the astonishment of the spectators: the last cheering sound that
reached him being--"He will be killed to a dead certainty!"

After attaining an altitude of nearly two miles, Mr. Hampton proceeded to cut the rope that
held him attached to the balloon. He paused for a second or two, as he remembered that it would
soon be life or death with him, but at length drew his knife across the rope. The first feelings
he experienced were both unpleasant and alarming; his eyes and the top of his head appeared
to be forced upwards, but this passed off in a few seconds, and his feelings subsequently became
pleasant, rather than disagreeable.

So steady and slow was the descent that the Parachute appeared to be stationary. Mr. Hampton
remembered that a bag of ballast was fastened beneath the car, he stooped over and upset the
sand, he also noted by his watch the time he occupied in descending. The earth seemed coming
up to him rapidly; the Parachute indicated its approach to terra, firma by a slight oscillation,
and he presently struck the ground in the centre of a field, where he was first welcomed by
a sheep, which stared at this visitor from the clouds in utter amazement. Mr. Hampton repeated
the experiment twice in London, though on both occasions with considerable danger to himself,
the first time falling on a tree in Kensington Gardens, the second on a house, which threw
him out of the basket.

After this experiment there was a lull in the Parachute folly until some twenty years ago,
when Madame Poitevin startled the Metropolis from its propriety by her perilous escapes both
in life and limb. Although considerable ingenuity was displayed in the plan of expanding the
Parachute by the sudden discharge of gas from the balloon; still the very fact of a woman being
exposed to such danger by her husband, will, we trust, hereafter prevent Englishmen from countenancing
such an exhibition by their presence.

CHAPTER V.

UMBRELLA STORIES.

Who could for a moment suppose that so important an article as the Umbrella would be without
its lighter as well as its more serious history? Umbrellas are still, we regret to say, regarded
rather in a comic than a serious light; so, if any of the following anecdotes seem to treat
of Umbrellas in too mocking or frivolous a vein, it is the fault of the bad taste of the British
public, not ours, who have merely compiled. However, we may commence with a very neat little
French riddle.

"Quel est l'objet que l'on recherche le plus quand on s'en dégoûte?"

A mysterious inquiry, and all sorts of horrible but needful abominations occur to the mind
in answer. But the answer is not so bad after all. Change the spelling without altering the
pronunciation, and you get quand on sent des gouties, and, lo! you have it at once--le Parapluie--the
faithful friend whose presence we most desire when we wish least for the necessity of it; the
burden of our fine days, the shelter of our wet ones.

Or again, would you like a verse or two on the same subject?

  "Pour étrenne, on veut à l'envie
  Du frais et du neuf et du beau,
  Je dis que c'est un parapluie,
  Que l'on doit donner en cas d'eau."

The author of these two jeux de mots unhappily we do not know, or we would thank him for them.
The English poet of the Umbrella has yet to be born.

The next story relates to the early history of the Umbrella in Scotland, and may probably be
referred to the time when good Dr. Jamieson was walking about Glasgow with his new-fangled
sheltering apparatus, which he had brought with him on his return from Paris. As it was the
first ever seen in that city, it attracted universal attention, and a vast amount of impudence
from the "horrid boys." The following anecdote, then, which we borrow from a Scotch paper,
most probably refers to the same period, or thereabouts :--

"When Umbrellas were first marched into Blairgowrie, they were sported only by the minister
and the laird, and were looked upon by the common class of people as a perfect phenomenon.
One day Daniel M-- went to Colonel McPherson, at Blairgowrie House; when about to return, a
shower came on, and the colonel politely offered him the loan of an Umbrella, which he gladly
accepted, and Daniel, with his head two or three inches higher than usual, marched off. Not
long after he had left, however, the colonel again saw Daniel posting towards him with all
possible haste, still o'ertopped by his cotton canopy (silk Umbrellas were out of the question
in those days), which he held out, saluting him with--' Hae, hae, Kornil, this'll never do!
there's nae a door in all my house that'll tak it in; my very barn-door winna' tak it in.'"

In the veracious "History of Sandford and Merton," if our memory serves us aright, there is
an instance quoted of remarkable presence of mind relating to an Umbrella and its owner. The
members of a comfortable pic-nic party were cosily assembled in some part of India, when an
unbidden and most unwelcome guest made his appearance, in the shape of a huge Bengal tiger.
Most persons would, naturally, have sought safety in flight, and not stayed to hob-and-nob
with this denizen of the jungle; not so, however, thought a lady of the party, who, inspired
by her innate courage, or the fear of losing her dinner --perhaps by both combined seized her
Umbrella, and opened it suddenly in the face of the tiger as he stood wistfully gazing upon
brown curry and foaming Allsop. The astonished brute turned tail and fled, and the lady saved
her dinner. Not many years ago the Umbrella was employed in an equally curious manner, though
not so successfully as in the former instance. In the campaign of 1793, General Bournonville,
who was sent with four commissioners by the National Convention to the camp of the Prince of
Saxe-Coburg, was detained as a prisoner with his companions, and confined in the fortress of
Olmütz. In this situation he made a desperate attempt to regain his liberty. Having procured
an Umbrella, he leaped with it from a window forty feet above the ground, but being a very
heavy man, it did not prove sufficient to let him down in safety. He struck against an opposite
wall, fell into a ditch and broke his leg, and, worse than all, was carried back to his prison.

One of the most remarkable instances on record, in which the Umbrella was the agency of a man's
life being saved, occurred, according to his own statement, to our old friend Colonel Longbow.
Of course our kind readers know him as well as we do, for not to do so "would be to argue yourselves
unknown." At any Continental watering place, Longbow, or one of his family--for it is a large
one--can be met with. He is, indeed, a wonderful man--on intimate terms with all the crowned
heads of Europe, and proves his intimacy by always speaking of them by their Christian names.

He is at once the "guide, philosopher, and friend" of every stranger who happens to form his
acquaintance--a very easy task, be it remarked--and, though so great a man, is not above dining
at your expense, and charming you by the terms of easy familiarity with which he imbibes your
champagne or your porter, for all is alike to him, so long as he has not to pay for it: he
can take any given quantity.

Well, the other day we happened to meet the Colonel, and he speedily contrived to discover
that we were on the point of going to dine, and so invited him to share our humble meal, as
a graceful way of making a virtue of necessity, for had we not done so, he would have had no
hesitation in inviting himself. During dinner, conversation, of course, turned upon one all-engrossing
subject, the war, and the Colonel proceeded to give us his experiences of former wars, including
his adventures in the Crimea, and the miraculous escape he owed to an Umbrella.

It appeared that he had gone out with his friend, Lord Levant, on a yachting excursion in the
Mediterranean, and they eventually found their way into the Black Sea. Stress of weather compelled
them to put into the little port of Yalta, on the north coast, where they went on shore. The
Colonel, on the Lucretian principle of "Suave mari magno," &c., proceeded the next morning
to the verge of the precipice to observe the magnificent prospect of a sea running mountains
high. As it was raining at the time, he put up a huge gingham Umbrella he happened to find
in the hotel. Suddenly, however, a furious blast of wind drove across the cliff, and lifted
the Colonel bodily in the air. Away he flew far out to sea, the Umbrella acting as a Parachute
to let him fall easy.

Now to most men this would only have been a choice of evils, a progress from Scylla to Charybdis:
not so to our Colonel. On coming up to the surface after his first dip, he found that swimming
would not save him; so he quietly emptied out the water contained in the Umbrella, seated himself
upon it, and sailed triumphantly into the harbour, like Arion on his dolphin.

Our face, on hearing this anecdote, must have betrayed the scepticism we felt, for the Colonel
proceeded to a corner of the room, and produced the identical Umbrella. Of course, such a proof
was irresistible, and we were compelled to do penance for our unbelief by lending the gallant
Colonel a sovereign, for "the Bank was closed." We thought the anecdote cheap at the price.

There is a story told of one of our City bankers, that he owed an excellent wife to the interposition
of an Umbrella. It appears that on returning home one day in a heavy shower of rain, he found
a young lady standing in his doorway. Politeness induced him to invite her to take shelter
under his roof, and eventually to offer her the loan of an Umbrella. Of course, the gallant
banker called for it the next day, and the acquaintance thus accidentally made, soon ripened
into mutual affection. This species of Umbrella courtship has been immortalised in more than
one song, none of which, however, are quite worth quoting.

A worthy little Frenchman of our acquaintance was ordered by his medical man to take a course
of shower-baths. Such things being unknown to him in his fatherland, he of course found the
first essay remarkably unpleasant, but with native ingenuity he soon discovered a remedy. On
our asking him how he liked the hydropathic system, he replied, "Oh, mais c'est charmant, mon
ami; I always take my parapluie wid me into de bath."

Douglas Jerrold, in his well-known "Punch's Letters to his Son," gives an anecdote of which
we can only say, si non è vero, è ben trovato. It at all events illustrates the frightful morality
that exists with regard to borrowing Umbrellas.

"Hopkins once lent Simpson, his next-door neighbour, an Umbrella. You will judge of the intellect
of Hopkins, not so much from the act of lending an Umbrella, but from his insane endeavour
to get it back again.

