No. 42.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1850 [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       * {177}

CONTENTS.

NOTES:--
  Alfred's Orosius, by Dr. Bell. 177
  Remarkable Proposition concerning Ireland, by H.
    Kersley. 179
  News: a few "old" Materials for its Elucidation, by
    S.W. Singer. 180
  Folk Lore:--Charming for Warts. 181
  Minor Notes:--Capture of Henry VI.--The New
    Temple. 181

QUERIES:--
  Essays of certain Paradoxes: Poem on Nothing, by
    S.W. Singer. 182
  Minor Queries:--Papers of Perjury--Church Rates--St.
    Thomas of Lancaster's Accomplices--Prelates of
    France--Lord Chancellor's Oath--Mediæval Nomenclature--Sir
    Christopher Sibthorp--Alarm. 182

REPLIES:--
  Shakspeare's Use of "Delighted," by Samuel Hickson. 183
  English Comedians in Germany. 184
  Achilles and the Tortoise. 185
  Replies to Minor Queries:--"Barum" and "Sarum"--Countess
    of Desmond--Michael Servetus, alias Reves--Caxton's
    Printing-office--Somagia--Various Modes
    of Interment among the Ancients--Guy's Porridge-pot--"Welcome
    the coming, speed the parting Guest"--"A Chrysostom to
    smoothe his Band in"--William of Wykeham--Dutch
    Language--"A Frog he would," &c.--City Sanitary
    Laws--Sanitary Laws of other Days--Michael Scott, the
    Wizard--Clerical Costume--The Curfew--Welsh Language--Armenian
    Language--North Sides of Churchyards unconsecrated--"Sir
    Hilary charged at Agincourt"--Unicorn--Abbey of St.
    Wandrille, Normandy, &c. 186

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 191
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted. 191
  Notices to Correspondents. 191
  Advertisements. 191

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES

ALFRED'S OROSIUS.

The two exceedingly valuable elucidations which the geography of King Alfred relating to Germany
(intercalated in the royal author's translation of Orosius), has received from your learned
contributors MR. R.T. HAMPSON (Vol. i., p. 257.) and MR. S.W. SINGER (Vol. i., p. 313.) induce
me to offer some new views on the same subject. From my having passed a long series of years
in the countries described, and read and examined all that continental authors, as well as
Englishmen, have written or conjectured on the subject, I trust that my opinions, though differing
from all hitherto received, may not be unworthy the attention of these gentlemen, and of your
other numerous subscribers. I shall, however, at present, not to exceed the necessary limitation
of your articles, restrict myself to a consideration of the very disputed Cwenas and the Cwen-sae,
which both the gentlemen have not alluded to.

The universal agreement amongst the commentators (with the two solitary exceptions I shall
hereafter mention), by which this sea is taken for the White Sea, is diverting, and has been
the primary source of many of their errors, and of that most monster one, by which Othere's
narrative has been made the relation of a voyage round the North Cape to Archangel. It is difficult
to say who may have first broached the brilliant idea. Spelmann's annotators, his alumni Oxonienses
of University College, seem to have left the matter without much consideration, in which they
were pretty servilely followed by Bussæus, though not so much so as to justify Professor Ingram's
remark, "that his notes were chiefly extracted thence." (Pref. viii.) Professor Murray of Göttingen
(1765), and Langebeck, in his Scriptores Rerum Danicarum (1773), make no mention of these arctic
discoveries; and the latter is satisfied that the Cwenas are the Amazons of Adam of Bremen:--

    "De Quenorum priscis Sedibus et Quenlandiæ situ, vide Torfæus,
    Hist. Norweg. i. 140. Adamus Bremens, pp. 58, 59. 61., per
    Amazones et terram Foeminarum voluit Queuones et Quenladiam
    intelligi."

and it remains, therefore, to the next commentator, John Reinhold Forster (the companion navigator
with Sir Joseph Banks), to have been the first to whom we owe the important error. He was praised
by Daines Barrington, for whose edition he gave the notes afterwards reproduced in his Northern
Voyages of Discovery; but still with certain reservations. The honourable translator found
some negative evidences which seemed to militate against the idea that the voyage could have
extended into the arctic circle; for, in such a case, Othere would hardly have refrained from
mentioning the perpetual day of those regions; the northern lights, which he must have experienced;
to which {178} we add, the perpetual snows, and many other very striking peculiarities, so
new and seemingly inexplicable to a southern traveller or listener.

Succeeding writers seem to have had fewer scruples, and to have admitted the idea without consideration.
Thorkelin, the Dane, (when in England to copy out the poem of Beowulf for publication at Copenhagen),
gave a very flattering testimony to Forster's notes, in Bibliotheca Topographica, vol. ix.
p. 891. et seq., though I believe he subsequently much modified it. Our own writers who had
to remark upon the subject, Sharon Turner, and Wheaton, in his History of the Northmen, may
be excused from concurring in an opinion in which they had only a verbal interest. Professor
Ingram, in his translation of Othere's Voyage (Oxford, 1807, 4to. p. 96. note), gives the following
rather singular deduction for the appellation: Quenland was the land of the Amazons; the Amazons
were fair and white-faced, therefore Cwen-Sae the White Sea, as Forster had deduced it: and
so, having satisfied himself with this kind of Sorites, follows pretty closely in Forster's
wake. But that continental writers, who took up the investigation avowedly as indispensable
to the earliest history of their native countries, should have given their concurrence and
approval so easily, I must confess, astonishes me.

Dahlman, whilst Professor of History at Kiel, felt himself called upon by his situation to
edit and explain this work to his countrymen more detailedly than previously, and at vol. ii.
p. 405. of the work cited by Mr. Singer gives all Alfred's original notices. I shall at present
only mention his interpretation of Quen Sae, which he translates Weltmeer; making it equivalent
to the previous Garseeg or Oceanus. He mentions the reasonings of Rask and Porthan, of Abo,
the two exceptions to the general opinion (which I shall subsequently notice), without following,
on this point, what they had previously so much more clearly explained. The best account of
what had previously been done on the subject is contained in Beckmann's Litteratur der alten
Raisen (s. 450.); and incidental notices of such passages as fall within the scope of their
works, are found in Schlözer's Allgemeine nordische Geschichte, Thummann's Untersuchungen,
Walch's Allgemeine Bibliothek, Schöning's Gamle nordishe Geographie, Nyerup's Historisk-statistik
Skildering i aeldre og nyere Tider, in Sprengel's Geschichte, and by Wörbs, in Kruse's Deutsche
Alterthümer. Professor Ludw. Giesebrecht published in 1843, at Berlin, a most excellent Wendische
Geschichte, in 3 vols. 8vo., but his inquiries concerning this Periplus (vol. iii. p 290) are
the weakest part of his work, having mostly followed blindly the opinions to which the great
fame and political importance of Dahlman had given full credence and authority. He was not
aware of the importance of Alfred's notices for the countries he describes, and particularly
for the elucidation of the vexed question of Adam of Bremen's Julin and Helmold's Veneta, by
an investigation of Othere's Schiringsheal, and which I endeavoured to point out in a pamphlet
I published in the German language, and a copy of which I had the pleasure of presenting, amongst
others, to Professor Dahlman himself at the Germanisten Versammlung at Lübeck in 1847. To return,
however, to the Cwena land and sae, it is evident that the commentators, who are principally
induced by their bearings to Sweon land to look upon the latter as the White Sea, have overlooked
the circumstance that the same name is found earlier as an arm of the Wendel or Mediterranean
Sea; and it is evident that one denomination cannot be taken in a double meaning; and therefore,
when we find Alfred following the boundaries of Europe from Greece, "Crecalande ut on þone
Wendelsae Þnord on þone Garsaege pe man Cwen sae haet", it is certain that we have here an
arm of the Wendel Sea (here mistaken for the ocean) that runs from Greece to the north, and
it cannot also afterwards be the White Sea. It will be necessary to bring this, in conformity
with the subsequent mention of Cwen-Sae, more to the northward, which, as I have just said,
has been hitherto principally attended to.

In Welsh topography no designation scarcely recurs oftener than Gwent (or, according to Welsh
pronunciation, and as it may be written, Cwent) in various modifications, as Gwyndyd, Gwenedd,
Gynneth, Gwynne, &c. &c.; and on the authority of Gardnor's History of Monmouthshire (Appendix
14.), under which I willingly cloak my ignorance of the Welsh language, I learn that Gwent
or Went is "spelt with or without a G, according to the word that precedes it, according to
certain rules of grammar in the ancient British language, and that Venedotia for North Wales
is from the same root." The author might certainly have said, "the same word Latinized." But
exactly the same affinity or identity of names is found in a locality that suits the place
we are in search of: in an arm of the Mediterranean stretching from Greece northwards; viz.
in the Adriatic, which had for its earliest name Sirus Venedicus, translated in modern Italian
into Golfo di Venezia.

Of the multitudes of authorities for this assumption I need only mention Strabo, who calls
the first settlers on its northern end (whence the whole gulph was denominated) [Greek: Everoi];
or Livy, who merely Latinizes the term as Heneti, lib. i. cap. i., "Antenorem cum multitudine
Henetum." With the fable of Antenor and his Trojan colony we have at present no further relation.
The name alone, and its universality at this locality, is all that we require. I shall now
show that we can follow these Veneti (which, that it is a generic name of situation, I must
now omit to prove, from the compression {179} necessary for your miscellany) without a break,
in an uninterrupted chain, to the north, and to a position that suits Alfred's other locality
much more fitting, than the White Sea. The province of Vindelicia would carry us to the Boden
See (Lake of Constance), which Pomponius Mela, lib. iii. cap. i. ad finem, calls Lacus Venedicus.
This omitting the modern evidences of this name and province in Windisch-Grätz, Windisch-Feistriz,
&c. &c., brings us sufficiently in contact with the Slavonic and Wendic people of Bohemia to
track the line through them to the two Lausitz, where we are in immediate proximity to the
Spree Wald. There the Wends (pronounce Vends) still maintain a distinct and almost independent
community, with peculiar manners, and, it is believed, like the gypsies, an elected or hereditary
king; and where, and round Lüchow, in Hanover, the few remnants of this once potent nation
are awaiting their final and gradual absorption into the surrounding German nations. Whenever,
in the north of Germany, a traveller meets with a place or district ending in wits, itz, pitz,
&c., wherever situate, or whatever language the inhabitants speak, he may put it down as originally
Wendish; and the multitude of such terminations will show him how extensively this people was
spread over those countries. Itzenplitz, the name of a family once of great consequence in
the Mark of Brandenburg is ultra-Wendish. It will, therefore, excite no wonder that we find,
even in Tacitus, Veneti along their coasts and Ptolemy, who wrote about a century and a half
later than Strabo or Livy, seems to have improved the terminology of the ancients in the interval;
for, speaking of the Sarmatian tribes, he calls these Veneti [Greek: Ouenedai par holon ton
Ouenedikon kolpon]. Here we find the truest guide for the pronunciation, or, rather, for the
undigammaising of the Latin V and the Welsh W, as Ouenetoi, which is proved in many distant
and varying localities. St. Ouen, the Welsh Owen and Evan, and the patron saint of Rouen, no
doubt had his name (if he ever existed at all) coined from the French Veneti of Armorica, amongst
which he lived; and when foreigners wish to render the English name Edward as spoken, they
write Edouard and Robert the Wizzard, the Norman conqueror of Sicily and Apulia, has his name
transformed, to suit Italian ears, into Guiscard, and as William into Gulielmi. Thus, therefore,
the whole coast of Prussia, from Pomerania, as far, perhaps, as known, and certainly all the
present Prussia Proper, was the Sinus Venedicus, Ptolemy's [Greek: kolpon]; and this was also
Alfred's Cwen-Sae, for the north. I admit that when Alfred follows Orosius, he uses Adriatic
for the Golfo de Venezia, but when he gives us his independent researches, he uses an indigenous
name. Professor Porthan, of Abo in Finland, published a Swedish translation, with notes, of
the Voyages of Othere and Wulfstan in the Kongl. Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitet Academiens
Handlingar, sjette Delen. Stockholm, 1800, p. 37-106., in which he expressly couples Finland
with Cwenland; and, in fact, considering the identity of Cwen and Ven, and the convertibility
of the F and V in all languages, Ven and Fen and Cwen will all be identical: but I believe
he might have taken a hint from Bussæus, who, in addition to his note at p. 13., gives at p.
22. an extract from the Olaf Tryvassons Saga, where "Finnland edr Quenland" (Finland or Quenland)
are found conjoined as synonyms. Professor Rask, who gives the original text, and a Danish
translation in the Transactions of the Shandinavish Litteratur Selkskab for 1815, as "Otter
og Wulfstans Korte Reideberetninger," &c., though laudatory in the extreme of Porthan, and
differing from him on some minor points, yet fully agrees in finding the Cwen-Sea within the
Baltic: and he seems to divide this inland sea into two parts by a line drawn north and south
through Bornholm, of which the eastern part is called the Cwen or Serminde, or Samatian Sea.

Be that as it may, the above is one of a series of deductions by which I am prepared to prove,
that as the land geography of Germany by Alfred is restricted to the valleys of the Weichsel
(Wisle), the Oder, the Elbe, and the Weser, so the sea voyages are confined to the debouchures
of such of these rivers as flow into the Baltic. This would give a combined action of purpose
to both well suited to the genius of the monarch and the necessities of an infant trade, requiring
to be made acquainted with coasts and countries accessible to their rude navigation and limited
commercial enterprise. So prudent a monarch would never have thought of noting down, for the
instruction and guidance of his subjects and posterity, the account of a voyage which even
now, after an interval of ten centuries of continued nautical improvements, and since the discovery
of the compass, is not unattended with danger, nor accomplished in less than a year's time wasted.

WILLIAM BELL, Phil. Dr.

British Archeological Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMARKABLE PROPOSITION CONCERNING IRELAND.

The following passage, which contains a curious proposition relating to Ireland, will probably
be new and interesting to many readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES," since the book from which I
extract it is a scarce one, and not often read. Among the many various schemes that have of
late been propounded for the improvement of our sister country, this is perhaps not the least
remarkable, and shows that the questio vexata, "What is to be done with Ireland?" is one of
two centuries' standing.

HENRY KERSLEY

Corpus Christi Hall, Maidstone.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEWS.

A FEW OLD MATERIALS FOR ITS ELUCIDATION.

    "Novaum, vulgo Nouvelle. Ugutio: 'Rumor, murmur, quod vulgo
    dicitur Novum.' Occurit non semel in Epistolis Marini Sanuti.
    'Novis de Obitu Papæ auditis,' in Regesta Universitatis Paris,
    an. 1394, Spicileg. Acher., tom vi. p. 60."

So far Ducange, who also refers to the following:

    "Supervenerunt nobis Nova certa de morte, videlicet quorundam
    Nobilium, nobis adhærentium, captorum per partem dieti Philippi
    in Britannia, et de speciali Præcepto suo Parisiis ignominiosæ
    morti traditorum; nec non de Strage, &c. &c."--Charta an.
    1346, apud Rymer, t. v. p. 497.

The derivation of this word has been so strenuously and ably discussed by the contending parties
in your pages, that I have no intention of interfering (non nostrum tantas componere lites)
further than to furnish a few materials bearing on the subject, which may not have come under
their notice.

It seems uncertain whether Newes was considered by our ancestors plural or singular. Resolute
John Florio is sadly inconsistent in his use of it: in his World of Wordes, ed. 1598, we have:

    "Nova, newe, fresh, a noueltie, a newe report.

    "Novella, a tale, a nouell, a noueltie, a discourse, a newes
    a message."

In Queen Anna's World of Wordes, 1611:

    "Nova, a noueltie, a new report.

    "Novella, a tiding, or newes.

    "Novellante, a teller of newes or tidings."

Here we have newes treated both as singular and plural! while we have tiding as the singular
of tidings, a form which, from long disuse, would now appear strange to us. In the following
extract from Florio's very amusing book of Dialogues, Second Frutes, 1591, he makes newes decidedly
plural:--

    "C. What doo they say abroade? what newes have you, Master
    Tiberio? T. Nothing that I know; can you tell whether the post
    be come? C. No, Sir; they saye in the Exchange that the great
    Turke makes great preparation to warre with the Persian. T.
    'Tis but a deuice; these be newes cast abroade to feede the
    common sorte, I doo not beleeue them.... C. Yea, but they
    are written to verie worshipful merchants. T. By so much the
    lesse doo I beleeue them; doo not you know that euerie yeare
    such newes are spreade abroade? C. I am almost of your
    minde, for I seldome see these written reports prove true. T.
    Prognostications, newes, deuices, and letters from forraine
    countries (good Master Cæsar), are but used as confections to
    feed the common people withal. C. A man must give no more
    credite to Exchange and Powles' newes than to fugitiues
    promises and plaiers fables."

In Thomas's Principal Rules of the Italian Grammer, with a Dictionarie, printed by Thomas Powell
in 1562, but written in 1548, we have--

    "Novella, a tale, a parable, or a neweltee.

    "Novelluzza, an ynkelyng.

    "Novellare, to tell tales or newes."

In the title page of a rare little volume printed in 1616, we have the adjective new in apposition
with the substantive newes, thus:

    "Sir Thomas Overburie his Wife, with new Elegies upon his (now
    knowne) untimely death. Whereunto are annexed New Newes and
    Characters written by himselfe and other learned Gentlemen.
    Editio septima. London: printed by Edward Griffin for Lawrence
    Lisle, 1616, 12mo."

The head of one section is-- {181}

    "Newes from any-whence, or, Old Truth under a supposal of
    Noueltie."

Chaucer uses for the newe and of the newe (sc. fashion) elliptically. Tiding or Tidings, from
the A.-S. Tid-an, evidently preceded newes in the sense of inteligence, and may not newes therefore
be an elliptic form of new-tidinges? Or, as our ancestors had newelté and neweltés, can it
have been a contraction of the latter? If we are to suppose with Mr. Hickson that news was
"adopted bodily into the language," we must not go to the High-German, from which our early
language has derived scarcely anything, but to the Neder-Duytsch, from the frequent and constant
communication with the Low Countries in the sixteenth century. The following passages from
Kilian's Thesaurus, printed by Plantin, at Antwerp, in 1573, are to the purpose, and may serve
to show how the word was formed:--

    "Nieuwtijdinge, oft wat nieuws, Nouvelles, Nuntius vel
    Nuntium."

    "Seght ons wat nieuws, Dicte nous quelquechose de nouveau,
    Recita nobis aliquid novi."

    "Nieuwsgierich, nygierich, Convoiteux de nouveautez, Cupidus
    novitatis."

I trust these materials may be acceptable to your able correspondents, and tend to the resolution
of the question at issue.

S.W. SINGER.

Mickleham, August 6. 1850.

"News," Origin of the Word (Vol. i., pp. 270. 369. 487.; vol. ii., pp. 23. 81. 106.).--Your
correspondents who have written upon this subject may now have seen the following note in Zimperley's
Encyclopædia, p. 472.:--

    "The original orthography was newes, and in the singular.
    Johnson has, however, decided that the word newes is a
    substantive without a singular, unless it be considered as
    singular. The word new, according to Wachter, is of very
    ancient use, and is common to many nations. The Britons, and the
    Anglo-Saxons, had the word, though not the thing. It was first
    printed by Caxton in the modern sense, in the Siege of Rhodes,
    which was translated by John Kay, the Poet Laureate, and printed
    by Caxton about the year 1490. In the Assembly of Foulis,
    which was printed by William Copland in 1530, there is the
    following exclamation:--

    "'Newes! newes! newes! have ye ony newes?'

    "In the translation of the Utopia, by Raphe Robinson, citizien
    and goldsmythe, which was imprinted by Abraham Nele in 1551, we
    are told, 'As for monsters, because they be no newes, of them
    we were nothynge inquysitive.' Such is the rise, and such the
    progress of the word news, which, even in 1551, was still
    printed newes!"

W.J.

Havre.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Charming for Warts (Vol. i., p. 19.; vol. ii. p. 150.).--In Lord Bacon's Sylva Sylvarum, or
a Natural History in Ten Centuries (No. 997.), the great philosopher gives a minute account
of the practice, from personal experience, in the following words:--

    "The taking away of warts, by rubbing them with somewhat that
    afterwards is put to waste and consume, is a common experiment;
    and I do apprehend it the rather, because of mine own
    experience. I had from my childhood a wart upon one of my
    fingers; afterwards, when I was about sixteen years old, being
    then at Paris, there grew upon both my hands a number of warts
    (at least an hundred), in a month's space; the English
    Ambassador's lady, who was a woman far from superstition, told
    me one day she would help me away with my warts; whereupon she
    got a piece of lard with the skin on, and rubbed the warts all
    over with the fat side, and amongst the rest, that wart which I
    had from my childhood; then she nailed the piece of lard with
    the fat towards the sun, upon a post of her chamber window,
    which was to the south. The success was, that within five weeks'
    space all the warts went quite away, and that wart which I had
    so long endured for company; but at the rest I did little
    marvel, because they came in a short time and might go away in a
    short time again, but the going of that which had stayed so long
    doth yet stick with me.

J.M.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Capture of Henry the Sixth.--At Waddington in Mytton stands a pile of building known as the
"Old Hall," once antique, but now much indeed despoiled of its beauty, where for some time
the unfortunate king, Henry the Sixth, was concealed after the fatal battle of Hexham, in Northumberland.
Quietly seated one day at dinner, "in company with Dr. Manting, Dean of Windsor, Dr. Bedle,
and one Ellarton," his enemies came upon him by surprise, but he privately escaped by a back
door, and fled to Brungerley stepping-stones (still partially visible in a wooden frame), where
he was taken prisoner, "his legs tied together under the horse's belly," and thus disgracefully
conveyed to the Tower in London. He was betrayed by one of the Talbots of Bashall Hall, who
was then high-sheriff for the West Riding. This ancient house or hall is still in existence,
but now entirely converted into a building for farming purposes: "Sic transit gloria mundi."
Near the village of Waddington, there is still to be seen a meadow known by the name of "King
Henry's Meadow."

In Baker's Chronicle, the capture of the king is described as having taken place "in Lincolnshire,"
{182} but this is evidently incorrect; it is Waddington, in Mytton, West Yorkshire.

CLERICUS CRAVENSIS.

The New Temple (Vol. ii., p. 103.).--As your correspondent is interested in a question connected
with the occupants of the New Temple at the beginning of the fourteenth century, I venture
to state, at the hazard of its being of any use to him, that I have before me the transcript
of a deed, dated at Canterbury, the 16th of July, 1293, by which two prebendaries of the church
of York engage to pay to the Abbot of Newenham, in the county of Devon, the sum of 200 marks
sterling, at the New Temple in London, in accordance with a bond entered into by them before
G. de Thornton and others, the king's justices.

S.S.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

ESSAYES OF CERTAIN PARADOXES: POEM ON NOTHING.

Who was the author of a thin 4to. volume with the above title, printed for Tho. Thorpe, 1616?
The contents are, "The Praise of K. Richard the Third--The French Poetes--Nothing--That it
is good to be in Debt."

The late Mr. Yarnold has a MS. copy of the "Praise of K. Richard," to which was prefixed the
following dedication:--

    "TO THE HONOURABLE SIR HENRY NEVILL, KNIGHTE."

    "I am bolde to adventure to your honors viewe this small portion
    of my privatt labors, as an earnest peny of my love, beinge a
    mere Paradoxe in prayse of a most blame-worthie and condemned
    Prince, Kinge Richard the Third; who albeit I shold guilde with
    farre better termes of eloquence then I have don, and freate
    myself to deathe in pursuite of his commendations, yet his
    disgrace beinge so publicke, and the worlde so opinionate of his
    misdoings, as I shold not be able so farre to justifie him as
    they to condemne him. Yet that they may see what may be saide,
    and to shew how farre they haue mispraysed his vertues, this
    following Treatise shall make manyfest. Your honour may peruse
    and censure yt at your best leisure, and though yt be not trickt
    up wth elegance of phrase, yet may it satisfye a right curious
    judgmente, yf the reasons be considered as they ought. But,
    howsoever, yf you please to accepte it, I shall thinke my labors
    well bestowed; who, both in this and what ells may, devote
    myself to your honour, and rest,

    "Your honours most affectionat servant,

    "HEN. W."

The praise of Nothing is very well versified from the Latin of Passerat, whose verses Dr. Johnson
thought worthy of a place in his Life of Lord Rochester. Besides Rochester's seventeen stanzas
"Upon Nothing," there appears to have been another copy of verses on this fertile subject;
for Flecknoe, in his Epigrams of All Sorts, 1671, has "Somewhat to Mr. J.A. on his excellent
poem of Nothing." Is anything known of this Nothing?

S.W. SINGER.

Mickleham, July 29. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Papers of Perjury.--In Leicester's Commonwealth occurs the following passage:--

    "The gentlemen were all taken and cast into prison, and
    afterwards were sent down to Ludlow, there to wear papers of
    perjury."

Can any of your readers refer me to a graphic account of the custom of perjurers wearing papers
denoting their crime, to which I suppose this passage alludes?

S.R.

Church Rates.--CH. would be obliged to any of your readers who could refer him to the volume
of either the Gentleman's or the British Magazine which contains some remarks on the article
on Church Rates in Knight's Political Dictionary, and on Cyric-sceat.

St. Thomas of Lancaster's Accomplices.--In No. 15. I find an extract from Rymer, by MR. MONCKTON
MILNES, relative to some accomplices of St. Thomas of Lancaster, supposed to have worked miracles.--Query,
Was "The Parson of Wigan" one of these accomplices, and what was his name? Was he ever brought
to trial for aiding the Earl, preaching sedition in the parish church of Wigan, and offering
absolution to all who would join the standard of the barons? and what was the result of that
trial--death or pardon?

CLERICUS CRAVENSIS.

Prelates of France.--P.C.S.S. is desirous to know where he can meet with an accurate list of
the Archbishops and Bishops of France (or more properly of their Sees) under the old régime.

Lord Chancellor's Oath.--The gazette of the 16th July notified that the Right Hon. Sir Thomas
Wilde, in council, took the oath of Lord Chancellor of Great Britain and Ireland on the 15th
inst.; and the same gazette announced the direction of the Queen that letters patent be passed
granting the dignity of baron to the Right Hon. Sir Thomas Wilde, Knt., Lord Chancellor of
that part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland called Great Britain.

Why, when he is only Chancellor of Great Britain, should he take the oath of Chancellor of
Great Britain and Ireland?

J.

Mediæval Nomenclature.--In what work is to be obtained the best information explanatory of
the nomenclature of the useful arts in mediæval times?

[Greek: delta].

DE BALDOC.

Alarm (Vol. ii., p. 151.).--The derivation of alarm, and the French alarme, from à l'arme,
which your correspondent M. has reproduced, has always struck me as unsatisfactory, and as
of the class of etymologies suspiciously ingenious. I do not venture to pronounce that the
derivation is wrong: I merely wish to ventilate a doubt through "NOTES AND QUERIES," and invite
some of your more learned readers to lily to decide the question.

Of the identity of the words alarm and alarum there is no doubt. The verb alarm is spelt alarum
in old writers, and I have seen it so spelt in manuscripts of Charles II.'s reign, but unfortunately
have not taken a "Note." Dr. Johnson says alarum is a corruption of alarm. Corruption, however,
usually shortens words. I cannot help having a notion that alarum is the original word; and,
though I may probably be showing great ignorance in doing so, I venture to propound the following
Queries:--

1. How far back can the word alarum be traced in our language, and how far back alarm?

2. Can it be ascertained whether the French took alarme from our alarm, or we alarm from them?

3. Can any explanation be given of alarum, supposing it to be the original word? Is it a word
imitative of sound?

A l'arme, instead of aux armes, adds to the suspiciousness of this derivation.

CH.