In view of the fact that P.M. is also the abbreviation for Prime Minister and Post-Mortem,
the London and North-Western Railway recommend that in future the abbreviation for afternoon
be A.L. (After Luncheon).

In view of the fact that (as every schoolboy knows) D.D. is also the abbreviation for Double
Donkey, the Upper House of Convocation recommend that in future the abbreviation for Doctor
of Divinity be Doc. Div.

In view of the fact that Q.S. is also the abbreviation for Quarter Sessions, the Committee
of the Pharmaceutical Society recommend that in future the abbreviation for Quantum Suff. be
S.W. (Say When).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Herbert Spencer made a rough outline of his 'Sympathetic Philosophy'
    when forty years old."--Weekly Paper.

Alas! he never lived to fill in the details.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PERSONAL TRIUMPH.

Always at the same point of my railway journey North I drop my paper and wait till a certain
trim red-roofed ivy-clad cottage comes into view across the fields to the right. Till yesterday
there were two reasons why I should hail this cottage with delight. First of all, it stands
where trim cottages are rarer than pit-heads and slag heaps; and, secondly, GEORGE STEPHENSON
once lived there. From now onwards, however, I have a third and more compelling reason for
respecting the old building. You shall hear.

Know, then, that I have a friend called Smithson. The Athenians would have had a short way
with him; and I admit that there have been times in the course of our relationship when hemlock
would really have been the only thing to meet the case. Our conversations (it is no fault of
mine) are always dialectical. They take the following form. Light-heartedly I enunciate a proposition.
Smithson is interested and asks for a clearer statement. I modify my original position. Smithson
purrs. Seeing trouble imminent, I modify my modification, and from that point onwards I make
a foredoomed but not (as I flatter myself) an unplucky fight against relentless logic. The
elenchus comes soon or late, but it always comes. Only in dreams am I ever one up on Smithson.
The old trick of cramming up hard parts of the Encyclopaedia overnight is no good. I tried
it once with "Hegesippus" and "The Hegira." You don't know what either of these words mean?
Smithson did--and he knew the articles. No doubt he and Mr. GLADSTONE had written them in collaboration.

Well, yesterday, Smithson and I were in the neighbourhood of the cottage which I have told
you of. Having an hour to spare from work of national importance, we took our sandwiches and
were eating them in view of the jolly old house.

"What's that thing over the door?" I said.

"That I take to be a sun-dial," said Smithson with his accustomed reserve of strength.

"What a delightful stile," I said. (You always have stiles on sun-dials. I knew that).

"Qua stile it is perfect. What do you make of the inscription?"

I went at it bald-headed. "Percunt et imputantur," I said.

"You may be right, of course," replied Smithson, "though it certainly begins with an A."

"True," I corrected. "Anno Domini."

"Conceivably--but the second letter is a U."

I left Smithson painfully to reconstruct A-U-G-U-S-T from among the ivy. He had got to the
M of a long date when a burst of sun cast a crisp shadow across the dial.

"I don't think much of GEORGE STEPHENSON after all," I said. "His beastly clock doesn't know
the right time."

Smithson snorted. Here was a challenge to the omniscient.

"That's all right," he said, recovering himself in a moment "All properly constructed dials
have a compensating table; we shall find one no doubt behind the ivy; there! I see it, to the
left--a compensating table by which you have to correct the actual record of the shadow. For
example, we are now in Lat. 55 N. The month is April. At Greenwich--"

But I wasn't listening. A bright truth had flashed into my mind, and I couldn't hold myself
back any longer. "It's just about an hour slow," I said. "You don't think that Daylight Saving
has anything to do with it, do you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"About twenty-four hours later one of the ship's officers saw something bobbing on the water
a few hundred years dead ahead."--New York Evening Post.

America evidently foresees a long war.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STRIFE OF TONGUES.

(Lines suggested by the recent demise of the inventor of Esperanto.)

  As a patriotic Briton
  I am naturally smitten
      With disgust
  When some universal lingo
  By a zealous anti-Jingo
      Is discussed.

  Some there are who hold that Spanish
  In the end is bound to banish
      Other tongues;
  Some again regard Slavonic
  As a stimulating tonic
      For the lungs.

  I would sooner bank on Tuscan,
  Ay, or even on Etruscan,
      Than on Erse;
  But fanatical campaigners,
  Gaelic Leaguers and Sinn Feiners
      Find it terse.

  Some are moved to have a shy at
  Persian, thanks to the Rubaiyat,
      And its ease;
  But it's quite another matter
  If you're anxious for to chatter
      In Chinese.

  To instruct a brainy brat in
  Canine or colloquial Latin
      May be wise;
  But it's not an education
  As a fruitful speculation
      I'd advise.

  French? All elegance equips it,
  But how oft on foreign lips it
      Runs awry;
  German, tainted, execrated,
  Is for ages relegated
      To the sty.

  As for brand-new tongues invented
  By professors discontented
      With the old,
  Well, the prospect of a "panto"
  Played and sung in Esperanto
      Leaves me cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "One of the most striking--and satisfactory--features of the new
    restaurant regime is the disappearance of the bread-basket."--Daily
    Telegraph.

Or, at any rate, a considerable shrinkage in its contour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If there must be duplication of electric light installations, the
    apparati might, at least, be made uniform. And it would not be
    expecting too much if they were made in some way to harmonise with the
    telephone service."--Australian Paper.

Or even with the Latin Grammar?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "5-Seater Car for Sale; must sell; chauffeur at the Front; own body
    cost over L73. What offers?--RECTOR."--Times.

These personal details seem to us a little out of place in a commercial transaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

( By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

