The Princess of Wales could not be prevailed on to remain more than ten days at Brunswick.
She left Lady Charlotte Lindsay[100] and Serinyer behind her, and proceeded with Lady Elizabeth
Forbes to Strasburg, where she found Talma, the renowned Actor, and halted there ten days.

Lord Sheffield to Sir John Stanley.

SHEFFIELD PLACE, February 1, 1815.

We are much entertained with Fred Douglas's[101] account of his visit of four days to the Isle
of Elba.

On the third evening he had an interview with Buonaparte for an hour and a half--the conversation
very curious. He says that Buonaparte is not at all like any of his Prints; that he is a stout,
thick-set figure, which makes him look short; his features rather coarse and his eyes very
light, and particularly dull; but his mouth, when he smiles, is full of a very sweet, good-humoured
expression; that at first he strikes you as being a very common-looking man, but upon observing
him and conversing with him, you perceive that his countenance is full of deep thought and
decision.

He says he received him with much good humour, and talked to him of the English Constitution,
with which he seemed well acquainted; said that France never could have the same, because it
wanted one of the principal parts of it, "Les Nobles de Campagne." He talked also much about
our church Laws, of which he appeared to be well informed, but said he heard there was much
ill humour in Scotland on account of the Union! Frederick thought he meant Ireland, but found
he really did mean Scotland, and had no idea that the Union had taken place above a hundred
years ago.

He said he did not think the Peace would last; that the French Nation would never submit long
to give up Belgium, and that he would have yielded all except that; that he would have given
up the Slave Trade, as it was a Brigandage of very little use to France. He had a most extraordinary
idea of how it should be abolished, viz., he said he would allow Polygamy among the Whites
in the West Indies, that they might inter-marry with the Blacks, and all become Brothers and
Sisters. He said that he had consulted a Bishop upon this, who had objected to it as contrary
to the Christian Religion.

He seemed very anxious to know concerning the quarrels of the Regent and his wife, upon which
subject F., of course, evaded giving him any answers. He said, "On dit qu'il aime la Mère de
ce Yarmouth--mais vous Anglais, vous aimez les vielles Femmes," and he laughed very much. He
avoided speaking of Maria Louisa, but spoke of Joséphine with affection, saying, "Elle étoit
une excellente Femme." He said that the motive of his expedition into Russia was, first, that
it was necessary to lead the French Army somewhere, and then that he wished to establish Poland
as an independent kingdom; for that he had always loved the Poles, and had many obligations
to them. He talked of all his battles as you would of a show, saying "C'étoit un Spectacle
magnifique."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Napoleon had fulfilled his own prophecies of the prompt disturbance of the Peace of Europe
by landing at Cannes, just six days from the date of this last letter, Lord Sheffield writes
again, after war had been declared by the Allies.

Lord Sheffield to Sir John Stanley.

SHEFFIELD PLACE, March 24, 1815.

I was greatly oppressed by the first intelligence of Napoleon's Invasion. I was afterwards
re-elevated, and now I am tumbled down again.

To be sure, there never was such an execrable nation as the French. The much more respectable
Hindoos could not more meekly submit to any conqueror that chooses to run through their country
at the head of a set of miscreant soldiers. The Pretorian band that in the time of Imperial
Rome used to dispose of Empires is perfectly re-established. Immediate notice was sent me from
Newhaven of the Duke of Feltre's[102] (Minister of War) arrival there, and of poor Louis's
flight from Paris.

I immediately set out, with the intention of rendering service to the variety of wretches that
were pouring in upon our coast, English and French, but on my way called at Stanmer, where
I found that this famous Minister of War was gone forward to London, that the few ship-loads
that had got over to Newhaven were disposed of, and an embargo having been laid on the Ports
of France, of course there was nothing more to be done on our coast.

I returned home at night, and just as I was going out of Stanmer Park I met the Duke of Taranto[103]
entering, for whom Lord Chichester had sent his carriage. The Duke of Feltre brought the intelligence
that the King was at Abbeville.

I was considerably annoyed, because it seemed like inclining to England, and relinquishing
all hopes of France. At Abbeville he certainly might turn off to Lisle, where I hope he is
gone, and there, if there be any loyal Frenchmen, they may flock round his standard.

All accounts, and letters, that I have seen from France agree that the country is almost universally
against Buonaparte, and it is very clear all the Army is for him, and that all the Marshals
adhere to Louis, except two. If so, and Napoleon has not the aid of his old Generals, he may
find it difficult to manage the many Armies that he must keep on foot to repel the attacks
that will be made on him from all sides.

I cannot help thinking he is in a bad situation still. When all the Russians, Cossacks, Croats,
Hungarians, Austrians, and all Germany clatter round him, and our very respectable army from
the Netherlands advances, if he has nothing but the army in his favour, he will be considerably
bothered, and I hope the sentimental, silly Alexander will never be suffered to interfere with
his "beaux sentimens" in favour of the monster. If he should be taken and I had the command
I should never trouble Alexander nor anybody else, but take him by the Drum head, giving something
like the sort of trial the Duc d'Enghien had and immediately extinguish him by exactly the
same process, ceremony, &c., as he practised on the Duc d'Enghien.

After all, and the worst of all, is that I apprehend we must pay the piper to enable the above-mentioned
Hordes to take possession of France, and when there I flatter myself they will live upon the
country. If we do not make some effort of the kind, all the money we have shed may be in a
great degree thrown away. One great difficulty occurs to me, how will it be possible to dispose
of the present French Army if it should be conquered, and how raise a French Army to maintain
Louis's dominion?

If Napoleon should be utterly extinguished, it may be possible to do something, but if he escapes
(yet I know not where he can go) a large foreign Army must remain a long time in France.

I must conclude by observing what a very extraordinary, strange creature a Frenchman is! Instead
of attending the King, or suppressing Navy Depôts where there are only fifty loyal men, the
Minister of War flies to England, and, as he represented, in order to join the King in Flanders.
At Paris he was certainly nearer Flanders than he was at Dieppe....

Yours ever,

SHEFFIELD.

The Victory of Waterloo ended all fears of a fresh Imperial Despotism, and also all the hopes
of those who, like Lord Sheffield and the Stanley family, were no great admirers of the Bourbon
Dynasty.

Edward Stanley's desire to revisit France was now coupled with a wish to realise the scene
of the late Campaign, and he planned his journey so as to arrive there on the first anniversary
of the battle, June 18, 1816.

He was accompanied by Mrs. Stanley, by his brother-in-law, Edward Leycester Penrhyn,[104] who
had travelled with him in 1814, and by their mutual friend, Donald Crawford.

Mrs. Stanley's bright and graphic letters contribute to the story of their adventures, and
are added to make it complete.

CHAPTER VII

AFTER WATERLOO

A long Channel passage--Bruges--The battlefield--A posting journey--Compiègne--Paris--Michael
Bruce.

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria Stanley.

Spring, 1816.

...Edward has long talked of a week at Waterloo, and all the rest of the plan came tumbling
after one day in talking it over with Edward Leycester, as naturally as possible, and I expect
almost as much pleasure in seeing Cambridge and being introduced to the looks and manners at
least of E. L.'s friends, and in seeing him there as in anything else. We are to pay a visit
to Sir George and Lady Scovell at Cambray, and perhaps to Sheffield Place, on our return....

ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, June, 1816.

I am very glad to have this opportunity of seeing what a college life is, as well as seeing
Cambridge itself and its contents animate and inanimate. I like both very much.

We had a very pleasant journey. The road is not only prettier by Ashbourne and Derby, but better,
and, provided your nerves can stand cantering down hill sometimes, you get on faster than on
the other road. We drank tea at Nottingham on Monday and went up to the Castle.

We arrived at Cambridge by 6 o'clock on Tuesday evening, and found Edward deep in his studies....

This morning we breakfasted with George,[105] and, after seeing libraries and people and buildings
till I am tired, here I am, snug and comfortable, in Edward's room....

We are off to-morrow for London.

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria Josepha Stanley.

BLENHEIM HOTEL, LONDON, Saturday.

As we were coming yesterday Edward looked at the wind and decided that if Donald was not in
the Thames then, he would have no chance of being here this week. We had not been here an hour
when in he walked in high feather and gave me more reasons than I can remember for leaving
his sisters and going with us....

I have been to Waterloo[106] and in Buonaparte's carriage. He has given an alarm by writing
to France in spite of all their precautions.... We have got our passports and arranged our
going. Edward came back from the city with three plans--the steamboat, the packet, or a coach
to ourselves to Ramsgate. We debated the three some time, at last, on the strength of hearing
that the steamboat had been out two nights on its passage once, we decided on the coach, and
the places were just secured when Mr. Foljambe came in and told us he was going to Ramsgate
on Tuesday with some other friends of Edward's, and that it was the nicest vessel ever seen
and more punctual than any coach, which made us all very angry as you may guess.... We set
out to-morrow morning and get into the packet at Ramsgate at 7 in the evening. Let me find
a nice folio at Paris, care of Perrigaux, Banquier, and I shall not feel your handwriting the
least interesting thing I have to see there.

Rev. E. Stanley to his niece, Louisa Dorothea Stanley.

RAMSGATE, June 11th.

Rapidly went the coach from Canterbury, 17 miles in an hour and a half. Fair blows the wind
over the azure blue billow. "You will breakfast at Ostend," says the Captain, "to-morrow."
"Oh, that Louisa were here!" says Donald. "She would die of delight," says Uncle, "and does
not Uncle say true?" Conceive the view from Nottingham Castle on the evening we left Alderley
... a noble precipice, frowning over a magnificent plain, from the terraces of which we beheld
immediately at our feet almost numberless--for I counted in a second 54--little pets of gardens,
each adorned with a love of a summerhouse to suit; in the corners of the rocks many excavations
and caverns fancifully cut out and carved, into which each of the proprietors of the above-mentioned
gardens might at leisure retire and become his own hermit. Then how shall I touch upon the
delights of Cambridge? How shall I speak of Edward's beauty in his cap, all covered with little
bows, and a smart black gown? And how shall I speak of his dinner and his party? Such merriment!
Such hospitality! Only think, Louisa, of dining, breakfasting and supping day after day with
14 or 15 most accomplished, beautiful, and entertaining young gentlemen! But no more, lest
you expire at the thought! As for London, I cannot well tell you what I did or saw, such a
confused multiplicity of sights and succession of business have seldom been experienced. At
6 this morning we started in the stage coach, the interior of which we took, excluding all
intruders, and from hence at 3 o'clock on a lovely night, with an elegant moon, we embarked
for Ostend.

(Continued by Mrs. Stanley.)

I have persuaded Uncle to carry his letter over the water that you may not have the anxiety
of thinking for 2 days about the passage, which a gentleman who dined with us to-day informed
us was the most precarious, dangerous, and uncertain known.

But I consoled myself with not believing the gentleman in the first place, and by thinking
with Aunt Clinton that as Mrs. Carleton was drowned so lately at Ostend, it is not likely another
accident should happen at present.

Here we are, waiting for the awful moment of embarkation, which I consider something like having
a tooth out, but I live in hopes that, having been up early this morning and had 10 hours'
jumbling, I may be sleepy enough to forget that I am on a shelf instead of a bed; so I have
been just to admire the moon as we sail out of harbour, and then go to bed and find myself
in sight of Ostend when I awake.

(E. Stanley resumes next day.)

A dead calm succeeded to a gentle breeze, and on the soft, sleepy billows we have reposed in
the Downs, rolling ever since. To comfort us we have a beautiful Packet and a limited number
of passengers.

The discomfort consists in a rapid diminution of all our provisions and the consequent prospect
of no Tea, supper, or breakfast, or dinner to-morrow. One sailor said to another as he was
skinning some miserable fish, "Aye, aye, they" (meaning the passengers) "will be glad enough
of these in a day or two, and I was eleven days becalmed last year."

Kitty, to fill up an hour of vacuity, said she would draw, and to fill up my time this testifies
that I have been thinking of you and wishing for your presence, for the Novelty alone would
keep you in full effervesence and banish all Tediosity.

I have, moreover, been playing with a sweet little French dog brought by one of the sailors
from Boulogne. The sailors have daily given him two glasses of gin to check his growth, and
a marvellous dog of Lilliput he is! Pray, my dear Lou, drink no gin, for you see the consequences.

I had retired to bed, when Edward Leycester called me up to admire a beautiful display of Neptune's
fireworks; wherever the surface of the waves was agitated, the circles of silver flashed and
the drops were scattered far and wide.

The morning dawned upon us nearly in the same position, not a breath troubled the surface,
smooth and still as Radnor Mere on the sweetest evening.

Famine began to stare us in the face; our provisions were nearly exhausted; two or more days
might elapse before we reached Ostend.

We breakfasted on tea, fried skate and cheese. Breakfast at an end, it was proposed to board
the nearest vessel and beg or borrow a dinner. In the tide course appeared a sail, about five
miles distant.

The boat was lowered, volunteers stepped forward--Uncle, Edward, Donald, and a gentleman-like
Belgian.

Away we went and by hard rowing we came alongside the strange sail in an hour. Three leaden
figures, motionless as the unwieldly bark they manned, gazed curiously upon our approaching
boat. Our Belgian friend hailed, but hailed in vain. They looked but spoke not. Again he spoke,
and at length a monotonous "yaw" proclaimed that they were not dumb.

We went on board and found a perfect Dutch family on their way from Antwerp to Rouen. Out stepped
from her cabin the Captain's wife in appropriate costume, her close little cap, large gold
necklace and ear-rings; and behind the Captain's spouse stepped forth two genuine descendants
of the nautical couple. Large round heads with large round (what shall I say?) Hottentots to
match and keep up the due balance between head and tail.

Having explained our wants to the Captain, he produced as the chief restorative an incomparable
bottle of Schiedam, i.e., gin. To each he offered a good large glass, and then in answer to
our request for beef, four bottles of excellent claret, two square loaves. For this he asked
a guinea, upon receiving which his features relaxed and he declared we should have two more
bottles of claret. Upon hearing we had a lady in the packet he begged her acceptance of half
a neat's tongue, some butter, and a bag of rusks. Loaded with them, we took a joyful leave
of these sombre sailors and returned, with the orange cravat of our Belgian friend for a flag,
in triumph to the packet.

But a truce to my pen. Ostend is in sight, and now we are all rubbing our hands and congratulating
each other that wind and tide are in our favour and that we shall be in in a couple of hours.

Rev. E. Stanley to his niece, Isabella Stanley.[107]

BRUGES, June 14, 1816.

On our return from the Dutch vessel from which we recruited our exhausted store, we found our
poor Captain in sad tribulation, his patience exhausted, but his temper luckily preserved.
Having paced his deck with a fidgeting velocity a due number of times, peeped thro' his glass
at every distant sail or cloud to observe whether they were in any degree movable, and invoked
Boreas in the most pitiable terms such as "Oh Borus! Now do, good Borus just give us a blow,"
we had the satisfaction at length, the supreme satisfaction, of perceiving a gentle curl upon
the water which soon settled into a steady breeze, before which we glided away, delightfully
enjoying our dinner upon the deck, during which our party manifested their respective characters
in most charming style. One Farmer Dinmont[108] and Dousterswivel, a Dutchman, were perfect
specimens. A merry Belgian Equerry to the Prince of Orange, laughed, joked, and amused us with
sleight-of-hand tricks. Our Dutch beef, tho' doubtless salt far beyond due proportion, was
relished by all, Dinmont excepted, who pronounced it, together with the dark-coloured bread,
unfit for English hogs, and shook his head with a most significant expression of doubt at my
assertion that I never enjoyed a better dinner in my life. At five o'clock the low sand hills
appeared to view in little nodules upon the horizon, and the Steeple of Ostend with its Lighthouse
were visible from deck. At 6 we were close in upon land, and in half an hour were boarded by
a Dutch boat, but alas! there was nothing in its appearance to excite curiosity, and with the
exception of large earrings you might have fancied yourself in Holyhead Harbour. Four stout,
tall fellows, hard and resolute in feature and decided in action, proclaimed their near alliance
to British Jack Tars. They remained a little while and tried to cheat the passengers as much
as possible, to take us on shore, but finding us determined to remain till the Captain could
get his own boat ready, they shrugged their shoulders, abused us in Dutch, and sailed away.
We were too many for one boat, so taking Kitty and the best of our English passengers and honest
Farmer Dinmont, with all the luggage, we pushed off from the vessel. People of all descriptions,
pilots, sailors, customs officers, soldiers, waiters soliciting customs for their respective
turns. Porters regular and irregular, the latter consisting of a sort of light Infantry corps
of ragged boys. All these people, I say, were crowded together on a little peninsular jetty
against which our boat was shoved, and no sooner had the oars ceased to play and our keel cleared
the sand than all these people set up their pipes in every dialect of every tongue, French
and English both bad of their sort, Dutch high and low, Flemish and German. All burst upon
us at one and the same moment, and the Cossack corps of ragged porters all stept forward, arm,
leg and foot, to claim the honour of carrying up (most probably of carrying off) our baggage.
By dint of words fair and foul, a shove here and a push there, I contrived to get Kitty under
my arm and superintend, tho' with no small trouble and inconceivable watchfulness, the adjustment
of our small portmanteaux, writing case, &c., in a wheelbarrow, which, from its formidable
length of handle, bespoke its foreign manufacturer. On we jogged, but jogged not long; for
before this accumulating procession could disperse we were arrested by a whiskered soldier,
who in unintelligible terms announced himself a searcher of baggage. So to the custom house
we went, when each trunk was opened and submitted to a slight inspection; the chief difficulty
consisting in putting myself in 2 places at once--one close to the depôt of our goods in the
barrow, the other before the officer with the keys. Kitty was wedged in a corner with a writing
case and, I think, Donald's sword. My English companion was equally on the alert, but Farmer
Dinmont would have excited all your compassion, or rather admiration; for here amidst the din
of tongues and arms, unable to move hand or foot, he stood with a smile of mingled resignation
and wonder; at length, the search being concluded to the satisfaction of both parties, we re-commenced
our course, and in a few minutes Kitty found herself in a new world. Women and children unlike
any women and children you ever saw; close caps with butterfly wings for the former, little
black skull bonnets for the latter, in shape both alike, much resembling those toys which,
if placed on their heads, by their superior specific gravity and extensive sacrifice of their
lower projections instantly revolve and settle upon their tails.

"Voici, Messieurs et Madame, entrons dans la Cour Impériale," and another moment hoisted us
within the covered gateway of this Hotel of Imperial appellation. Our arrangements for sleeping
and eating being complete, we sat down on a bench before the door to gaze, but not to be gazed
upon, for the good people never cast an eye upon us. On retiring to tea, good Farmer Dinmont's
countenance relaxed as he flung himself into a chair; he put his hands upon the table and exclaimed,
"Well, well, here I am sitting down for the first time out of Old England!" ... A cup of tea,
or rather a kettle full, for our salt beef had kindled an insatiable thirst, put him in good
humour again, and, but for a sort of sigh or a look or a jerk which proved Old England to be
uppermost in his thoughts, he appeared quite satisfied. With some trouble Kitty secured the
fly cap chambermaid and had taken possession of her room; having seen her safe, I descended
to give orders for a warming-pan, leaving her (after having been 2 nights in her clothes) to
the luxury of an entire change of linen and course of ablutions. On re-crossing the court 10
minutes afterwards I ran against a waiter running off with a warming-pan, glowing with red-hot
embers. "Mais donc" said I, "Madame wants a warming-pan. Allons, where is the chambermaid to
carry it?" "Oh, n'importe," replied this flying Mercury; "c'est moi qui fera cela pour la dame!"
Only guess Kitty's escape! Another moment and he would have been in her presence, warming-pan
and all. By dint of remonstrating I checked his course and prevailed upon the Maid to go herself
with vast ill humour, innumerable shrugs, and some few "Mon Dieu's" and other suitable expressions.
Kitty must herself be the interpreter of her own feelings in these lands of novelty. I am almost
glad you were, none of you, here to witness what she will have such pleasure in describing.
Our morning passed away in strolling over the town. Kitty and I dined at the table d'hôte with
about 20 people. Farmer Dinmont sent for a bottle of the best wine to try it and offered me
a glass. I begged to propose a toast, "Prosperity to Old England." His features brightened
up, he grasped the bottle, filled a bumper, and replied, "Aye, aye, with all my heart; that
Toast I would drink in ditch water." We left Ostend at 3 o'clock to take passage in the Bruges
canal, and I do assure you we all felt quite sorry to leave our dear, good, honest John Bull.

At Saas we fell in with a specimen of Lord Wellington's operations. There is a formidable battery
erected last year by way of guarding Ostend from a "coup de main"; it is singular that the
English have placed a Battery for the defence close to the celebrated sluice gates of this
canal, which gates were blown up by Sir Evelyn Coote to prevent the French from inundating
the country, when he invaded it some years before.

Behold us seated in a spacious room, for it does not deserve the diminutive name of "Cabin,"
decorated with hangings of green cloth and gold border, on board a most commodious barge. Behold
us on a lovely evening starting from the Quay with full sail and 3 horses, a man mounted on
one and cracking a great long whip to drive on the other two, which trotted away abreast at
the rate of 4-1/2 miles an hour. Behold us seated on this easy chair of Neptune! our ears deafened
and our spirits enlivened by a band of music--trumpet, violin, and bass--admirably playing
Waltzes and other national tunes. When they had amused us on deck they went below to another
class of auditors. Our fellow traveller, Mr. Trueman, followed them, and perceiving him to
be English they struck up "God save the King." A Frenchman called out "Ba, ba," a very expressive
mode of communicating disapprobation, but seeing Trueman was of a different opinion, he ceased
from his "Ba, ba," and stepping towards him made him a low bow. About 6 o'clock we arrived
at Bruges, or rather to the wharf from whence passengers betake themselves and portmanteaux
to barrows and sledges. As we approached our Band resumed their musical exertions. A crowd
assembled to welcome our arrival, Gigs, coaches (such coaches!!), Horsemen (such Horsemen!!),
were parading. Such a light with such a rainbow shone upon such an avenue and such picturesque
gate!! Our baggage filled a car drawn by 3 stout men; and we all followed in the rear.... Bruges
is a town affording five or six volumes of sketches; towers, roofs, gable ends, bridges--all
in succession called for exclusive admiration. It was decided that we should rise at 4, breakfast
at 6, and see all that was possible before 9, when we were to continue our route to Ghent.
At 3 o'clock I was prepared, but a steady rain forced me reluctantly to bed again, but we did
breakfast at 6, and did pick up two or three sketches.

Mrs. E. Stanley to Lady Maria J. Stanley.

BRUSSELS, June 18, 1816.

On the 18th of June, how can I begin with any other subject than Waterloo?... At 8 this morning
we mounted our Cabriolets for Waterloo. Donald put on his Waterloo medal for the first time,
and a French shirt he got in the spoils, and a cravat of an officer who was killed, and I wrapped
myself in his Waterloo cloak, and we all felt the additional sensation which the anniversary
of the day produced on everybody. It brought the comparison of the past and present day more
perfectly home. Donald was ready with his recollections every minute of the day, what had been
his occupation or his feeling. The forest of Soignies is a fine approach to the field of battle--dark,
damp, and melancholy. If you had heard nothing about it, you could hardly help feeling, in
passing through it, that you would not like to cross it alone. There are no fine trees, but
the extent and depth of wood gives it all the effect of a fine one, and an effect particularly
suited to the associations connected with it. The road--a narrow pavement in the middle with
black mud on each side--looks as if it had never felt a ray of sun, and from its state to-day
gave me a good idea of what it must have been. Sometimes the road is raised thro' a deep hollow,
and it was not possible to look down without shuddering at the idea of the horses and carriages
and men which had been overturned one upon another; in some parts the trees are à la Ralph
Leycester, and you see the dark black of shade of the distant wood through them; but in other
parts it is so choked with brushwood and inequalities of ground, that you could not see two
yards before you, and no gorge was ever so good a cover for foxes as this for all evil-disposed
persons. At Waterloo we stopped to see the Church, or rather the monuments in it, put up by
the different regiments over their fallen officers. They are all badly designed and executed
but one Latin one--not half so good as the epitaph on Lord Anglesey's leg which the man had
buried with the utmost veneration in his garden and planted a tree over it; and he shows as
a relic almost as precious as a Catholic bit of bone or blood, the blood upon a chair in the
room when the leg was cut off, which he had promised my lord "de ne jamais effacer".

At Mont St. Jean Donald began to know where he was. Here he found the well where he had got
some water for his horse; here the green pond he had fixed upon as the last resource for his
troop; here the cottage where he had slept on the 17th; here the breach he had made in the
hedge for his horses to get into the field to bivouac; here the spot where he had fired the
first gun; here the hole in which he sat for the surgeon to dress his wound. He had never been
on the field since the day of the battle, and his interest in seeing it again and discovering
every spot under its altered circumstances was fully as great as ours.

After all that John Scott[109] or Walter Scott or anybody can describe or even draw, how much
more clear and satisfactory is the conception which one single glance over the reality gives
you in an instant, than any you can form from the best and most elaborate description that
can be given! To see it in perfection would be to have an officer of every regiment to give
you an account just of everything he saw and did on the particular spot where he was stationed.

Donald scarcely knew as much as Edward did or as the people about of what passed anywhere but
just at his own station. But at every place it was sufficient to ask the inhabitants where
they were and what they saw, to obtain interesting information.

Every plan I have seen makes it much too irregular, rough ground; it is all undulating, smooth
ups and downs, so gradual that you must look some time before you discover all the irregularity
there is. Hougoumont[110] is the only interesting point, and that by having an air of peace
and retirement about it most opposite to what took place in it.

It is a respectable, picturesque farmhouse, with pretty trees and sweet fields all around it;
the ravages are not repaired and many of the trees cut down. We left our carriages in the road
and walked all over the British position, and henceforward I shall have a clearer idea, not
only of Waterloo, but of what a military position and military plan is like.

At La Belle Alliance we sat upon a bench where Lord Wellington and Blücher perhaps met, and
drank to their healths in Vin de Bordeaux. In spite of the corn, there are still bits of leather
caps and bullets and bones scattered about in the fields, and you are pestered with children
innumerable with relics of all sorts. We had heard magnificent accounts on our road here of
all that was to be done on the field, balls, fêtes, sham fights, processions, and I do not
know what, but they have all dwindled to a dinner given here to the Belgian soldiers and a
Mass to be said for the souls of the dead to-morrow. However, we saw what we wished as we wished,
and the impression is perhaps clearer than if it had been disturbed and mixed with other sights.

And now, being near 12, and I having walked about 8 miles, and been up since 6, must go to
bed, though I feel neither sleepy nor tired.

To Lucy Stanley.

June 24, 1816.

...Away with me to Waterloo!

We arrived at Brussels on the evening of the 17th, and at seven o'clock started for the scene
of action. From Brussels a paved road, with a carriage track on each side, passes for nine
miles to the village of Waterloo.

The Forest (of Soignies) is, without exception, one of the most cut-throat-looking spots I
ever beheld, ... and for some days after the battle deserters and stragglers, chiefly Prussians,
took up their abode in this appropriate place, and sallying forth, robbed, plundered, and often
shot those who were unfortunate enough to travel alone or in small defenceless parties.

After traversing this gloomy avenue for about four miles, the first symptoms of war met our
eyes in the shape of a dead horse, whose ribs glared like a cheval-de-frise from a tumulus
of mud. If the ghosts of the dead haunt these sepulchral groves, we must have passed through
an army of spirits, as our driver, who had visited the scene three days after the battle, described
the last four miles as a continued pavement of men and horses dying and dead.

At length a dome appears at the termination of the avenue. It is the church of Waterloo. They
were preparing for a mass and procession, and the houses were most of them adorned with festoons
of flowers or branches of trees....

