    [Footnote 2: This same Alphéide, or Alpaïde, as she was
    frequently called, though but scurvily treated by posterior
    historians, is honoured by contemporary chroniclers as the
    second wife of Peppin, uxor altera. See Frédégaire.]

    [Footnote 3: Légendes de l'Histoire de France, par J. Collin
    de Plancy, p. 149. (notes.) Paris. Mellier Frères.]

       *       *       *       *       *

BODENHAM AND LING.

Referring to BOOKWORM's note at p. 29, I beg to observe that the dedication negativing Bodenham's
authorship of Politeuphuia is not peculiar to the edition of 1597. I have the edition of 1650,
"printed by Ja. Flesher, and are to be sold by Richard Royston, at the Angell in Ivye Lane,"
in which the dedication is addressed as follows:--"To his very good friend Mr. Bodenham, N.L.
wisheth increase of happinesse." The first sentence of this dedication seems to admit that
Bodenham was something more than patron of the work:--"What you seriously begun long since,
and have always been very careful for the full perfection of, at length thus finished, although
perhaps not so well to your expectation, I present you with; as one before all most worthy
of the same: bothe in respect of your earnest travaile therein, and the great desire you have
continually had for the generall profit."

In Brydges' Censura Literaria, Bodenham is spoken of as the compiler of The Garden of the Muses,
and editor of the Wit's Commonwealth, the {87} Wit's Theatre of the Little World, and England's
Helicon. He seems to have less claim to be considered the author of the Wit's Theatre than
of the Wit's Commonwealth, for in the original edition of the former, "printed by J.R. for
N.L., and are to be sold at the West doore of Paules, 1599," the dedication is likewise addressed,
"To my most esteemed and approved loving friend, Maister J.B. I wish all happines." After acknowledging
his obligations to his patron, the author proceeds: "Besides this History or Theatre of the
Little World, suo jure, first challengeth your friendly patronage, by whose motion I undertooke
it, and for whose love I am willing to undergoe the heavy burden of censure. I must confesse
that it might have been written with more maturitie, and deliberation, but in respect of my
promise, I have made this hast, how happy I know not, yet good enough I hope, if you vouchsafe
your kind approbation: which with your judgement I hold ominous, and as under which Politeuphuia
was so gracious."

I.F.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING IN ENGLAND.

Sir,--I beg to acknowledge the notice which two of your correspondents have taken of my query
on this subject. At the same time I must say that the explanations which they offer appear
to me to be quite unsatisfactory. I shall be happy to give my reasons for this, if you think
it worth while; but, perhaps, if we wait a little, some other solution may be suggested.

For the sake of the inhabitants, I hope that your work is read at Colchester. Is there nobody
there who could inform us at what time the London coach started a century ago? It seems clear
that it arrived in the afternoon--but I will not at present trespass further on your columns.
I am, &c.,

G.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Ancient Inscribed Alms Dish.

L.S.B. informs us that in the church of St. Paul, Norwich, is a brass dish, which has been
gilt, and has this legend round it four times over:--"HER: I: LIFRID: GRECHº: WART."[4]

This seems to be another example of the inscription which was satisfactorily explained in No.
5. p. 73.

    [Footnote 4: Blomefeld's Norfolk. Folio. 1739. Vol. ii. p.
    803.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bishop that burneth.

I do not think Major Moor is correct in his application of Tusser's words, "the bishop that
burneth," to the lady-bird. Whether lady-birds are unwelcome guests in a dairy I know not,
but certainly I never heard of their being accustomed to haunt such places. The true interpretation
of Tusser's words must, I think, be obtained by comparison with the following lines from his
Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry, quoted in Ellis's Brand, iii. 207.:--

  "Blesse Cisley (good mistress) that bishop doth ban
  For burning the milk of her cheese to the pan."

The reference here, as well as in the words quoted by Major Moor, is evidently to the proverb
relating to burnt milk, broth, &c.--"the bishop has put his foot in it;" which is considered
by Ellis to have had its origin in those times when bishops were much in the habit of burning
heretics. He confirms this interpretation by the following curious passage from Tyndale's Obedyence
of a Crysten Man:--

    "If the podech be burned to, or the meate ouer rosted, we saye
    the Byshope hath put his fote in the potte, or the Byshope hath
    playd the coke, because the Bishopes burn who they lust, and
    whosoeuer displeaseth them."

I fear the origin of the appellation "Bishop Barnaby," applied to the lady-bird in Suffolk,
has yet to be sought.

D.S.

Iron Manufactures of Sussex.

Sir,--I have made two extracts from a once popular, but now forgotten work, illustrative of
the iron manufacture which, within the last hundred years, had its main seat in this county,
which I think may be interesting to many of your readers who may have seen the review of Mr.
Lower's Essay on the Ironworks of Sussex in the recent numbers of the Athenæum and Gentleman's
Magazine. The anecdote at the close is curious, as confirming the statements of Macaulay; the
roads in Sussex in the 18th century being much in the condition of the roads in England generally
in the 17th. "Sowsexe," according to the old proverb, has always been "full of dirt and mier."

    "From hence (Eastbourne) it was that, turning north, and
    traversing the deep, dirty, but rich part of these two counties
    (Kent and Sussex), I had the curiosity to see the great
    foundries, or ironworks, which are in this county (Sussex), and
    where they are carried on at such a prodigious expense of wood,
    that even in a county almost all overrun with timber, they begin
    to complain of their consuming it for those furnaces and leaving
    the next age to want timber for building their navies. I must
    own, however, that I found that complaint perfectly groundless,
    the three counties of Kent, Sussex, and Hampshire (all
    which lye contiguous to one another), being one inexhaustible
    storehouse of timber, never to be destroyed, but by a general
    conflagration, and able, at this time, to supply timber to
    rebuild all the royal navies in Europe, if they were all to be
    destroyed, and set about the building them together.

    "I left Tunbridge ... and came to Lewes, through the
    deepest, dirtiest, but many ways the richest and most profitable
    country in all that part of England. {88}

    "The timber I saw here was prodigious, as well in quantity as in
    bigness, and seem'd in some places to be suffered to grow only
    because it was so far off of any navigation, that it was not
    worth cutting down and carrying away; in dry summers, indeed a
    great deal is carried away to Maidstone and other parts on the
    Medway; and sometimes I have seen one tree on a carriage, which
    they call here a tug, drawn by two-and-twenty oxen, and even
    then this carried so little a way, and then thrown down and left
    for other tugs to take up and carry on, that sometimes it is
    two or three years before it gets to Chatham; for if once the
    rains come in it stirs no more that year, and sometimes a whole
    summer is not dry enough to make the roads passable. Here I had
    a sight which, indeed, I never saw in any other part of England,
    namely, that going to church at a country village, not far from
    Lewes, I saw an ancient lady, and a lady of very good quality,
    I assure you, drawn to church in her coach with six oxen; nor
    was it done in frolic or humour, but mere necessity, the way
    being so stiff and deep that no horses could go in it."--A Tour
    through Great Britain by a Gentleman. London, 1724. Vol. i. p.
    54. Letter II.

Factotum

    "He was so farre the dominus fac totum in this juncto that
    his words were laws, all things being acted according to his
    desire."--p. 76. of Foulis' Hist. of Plots of our Pretended
    Saints, 2nd edit. 1674

F.M.

Birthplace of Andrew Borde

Hearne says, in Wood's Athenæ, "that the Doctor was not born at Pevensey or Pensey, but at
Boonds-hill in Holmsdayle, in Sussex."

Should we not read "Borde-hill?" That place belonged to the family of Borde for many generations.
It is in Cuckfield parish. The house may be seen from the Ouse-Valley Viaduct.

J.F.M.

Order of Minerva

    "We are informed that his Majesty is about to institute a new
    order of knighthood, called The Order of Minerva, for the
    encouragement of literature, the fine arts, and learned
    professions. The new order is to consist of twenty-four knights
    and the Sovereign; and is to be next in dignity to the military
    Order of the Bath. The knights are to wear a silver star with
    nine points, and a straw-coloured riband from the right shoulder
    to the left. A figure of Minerva is to be embroidered in the
    centre of the star, with this motto, 'Omnia posthabita
    Scientiæ.' Many men eminent in literature, in the fine arts, and
    in physic, and law, are already thought of to fill the Order,
    which, it is said, will be instituted before the meeting of
    parliament."--Perth Magazine, July, 1772.

SCOTUS.

Flaws of Wind

The parish church of Dun-Nechtan, now Dunnichen, was dedicated to St. Causlan, whose festival
was held in March. Snow showers in March are locally called "St. Causlan's flaws."

SCOTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED.

DORNE THE BOOKSELLER AND HENNO RUSTICUS.

Sir,--Circumstances imperatively oblige me to do that from which I should willingly be excused--reply
to the observations of J.I., inserted in page 75. of the last Saturday's Number of the "NOTES
AND QUERIES."

The subject of these are three questions proposed by me in your first number to the following
effect:--1. Or, 2ndly, of a little work of early date callled Henno Rusticus? Or, 3dly, of
another, called Of the Sige (Signe) of the End?

To these no answer has yet been given, although the promised researches of a gentleman of this
University, to whom literary inquirers in Oxford have ever reason to be grateful, would seem
to promise one soon, if it can be made. But, in the mean time, the knot is cut in a simpler
way: neither Dorne, nor Henno Rusticus, his book, it is said, ever existed. Permit me one word
of expostulation upon this.

It is perfectly true that the writing of the MS. which has given rise to these queries and
remarks is small, full of contradictions, and sometimes difficult to be read; but the contractions
are tolerably uniform and consistent, which, to those who have to do with such matters, is
proved to be no inconsiderable encouragement and assistance. A more serious difficulty arises
from the circumstance, that the bookselller used more than one language, and none always correctly.
Still it may be presumed he was not so ignorant as to make a blunder in spelling his own name.
And the first words of the manuscript are these: "+In nomine domini amen ego Johannes dorne,
&c. &c." (In noie domi ame ego Johanes dorne, &c.) From the inspection of a close copy now
lying before me, in which all the abbreviations are retained, and from my own clear recollection,
I am enabled to state that, to my full belief, the name of "dorne" is written by the man himself
in letters at length, without any contraction whatever; and that the altered form of it, "Domr,"
as applied to that particular person, exists nowhere whatever, except in page 75. of No. 5
of the "NOTES AND QUERIES."

The words "henno rusticus" (heno rusticus) are found twice, and are tolerably clearly written
in both cases. Of the "rusticus" nothing need be said; but the first n in "henno" is expressed
by a contraction, which in the MS. very commonly denotes that letter, and sometimes the final
m. How frequently it represents n may be judged from the fact that in the few words already
quoted, the final n in "amen," and the first in "Johannes," are supplied by it. So that {89}
we have to choose between "henno" and "hemno" rusticus (rather a clown than a gentleman, whatever
was his name; and perhaps the treatise, if ever found, will prove to treat merely on rural
affairs). And although it may turn out to be perfectly true that "homo rusticus" was the thing
meant, as your correspondent suggests, still that is not the question at issue; but rather,
amidst the confusion of tongues and ideas which seems to have possessed poor Dorne's brain,
what he actually wrote, rather than what he should have written.

Admitting, however, for supposition's sake, that your correspondent is right, that the man
was named Dormer, and the book Homo rusticus--is there any one who will obligingly favour me
with information respecting these, or either of them?

One word more, and I have done; though perhaps you will think that too much has been said already
upon a subject not of general interest; and indeed I cannot but feel this, as well as how painful
it is to differ, even in opinion, with one towards whom nothing can be due from me but respect
and affection. But the direct inference from your correspondent's remarks (although it is fully
my persuasion he neither designed nor observed it) is, that my difficulties are no difficulties
at all, but mistakes. To these we are all liable, and none more so than the individual who
is now addressing you, though, it is to be hoped, not quite in the awful proportion which has
been imputed to him. And let it stand as my apology for what has been said, that I owe it no
less to my own credit, than perhaps to that of others, my kind encouragers and abettors in
these inquiries, to vindicate myself from the charge of one general and overwhelming error,
that of having any thing to do with the editing of a MS. of which my actual knowledge should
be so small, that out of three difficulties propounded from it contents, two should be capable
of being shown to have arisen from nothing else but my inability to read it. I remain, Sir,
your obedient servant,

W.

Trin. Coll. Oxon. Dec. 5, 1849.

    [We have inserted the foregoing letter in compliance with the
    writer's wishes, but under a protest; because no one can
    entertain a doubt as to his ability to edit in a most
    satisfactory manner the work he has undertaken; and because also
    we can bear testimony to the labour and conscientious
    painstaking which he is employing to clear up the various
    obscure points in that very curious document. The following
    communication from a valued correspondent, in answering W.'s
    Query as to Henno Rusticus, confirms the accuracy of his
    reading.]

HENNO RUSTICUS.

The query of your correspondent W. at p. 12, No. 1. regards, I presume, Henno Comediola Rustico
Ludicra, nunc iterum publicata; Magdeburg, 1614, 8vo.? If so, he will find it to be identical
with the Scænica Progymnasmata h. e. Ludicra Præexercitamenta of Reuchlin, first printed at
Strasburg in 1497, and frequently reprinted during the first part of the sixteenth century,
often with a commentary by Jacob Spiegel.

A copy, which was successively the property of Mr. Bindley and Mr. Heber, is now before me.
It was printed at Tubingen by Thomas Anselm in 1511. I have another copy by the same printer,
in 1519; both in small 4to.

Reuchlin, while at Heidelberg, had amused himself by writing a satirical drama, entitled Sergius
seu Capitis Caput, in ridicule of his absurd and ignorant monkish opponent. This he purposed
to have had represented by some students, for the amusement of his friends; but Dalberg, for
prudent reasons, dissuaded its performance. It being known, however, that a dramatic exhibition
was intended, not to disappoint those who were anxiously expecting it, Reuchlin hastily availed
himself of the very amusing old farce of Maistre Pierre Patelin, and produced his Scænica Progymnasmata,
in which the Rustic Henno is the principal character. It varies much, however, from its prototype,
is very laughable, and severely satirical upon the defects of the law and the dishonesty of
advocates.

Its popularity is evinced by the numerous editions; and, as the commentary was intended for
the instruction of youth in the niceties of the Latin language, it was used as a school-book;
the copies shared the fate of such books, and hence its rarity. It is perhaps the earliest
comic drama of the German stage, having been performed before Dalberg, Bishop of Worms (at
Heidelberg in 1497), to whom it is also inscribed by Reuchlin. It seems to have given the good
bishop great pleasure, and he requited each of the performers with a gold ring and some gold
coin. Their names are recorded at the end of the drama.

Melchior Adam gives the following account:--

    "Ibi Comoediam scripsit, Capitis Caput plenam nigri salis &
    acerbitatis adversus Monachum, qui ejus vitæ insidiatus erat.
    Ibi & alteram Comoediam edidit fabulam Gallicam, plenam
    candidi salis; in qua forensia sophismata præcipue taxat. Hanc
    narrabat hac occasione scriptam & actam esse. Cum alteram de
    Monacho scipsisset, fama sparsa est de agenda Comoedia, quod
    illo tempore inusitatum erat. Dalburgius lecta, illius Monachi
    insectatione, dissuasit editionem & actionem, quod eodem tempore
    & apud Philipum Palatinum Franciscanus erat Capellus, propter
    potentiam & malas artes invisus nobilibus & sapientibus viris in
    aula. Intellexit periculum Capnio & hanc Comoediam occultavit.
    Interea tamen, quia flagitabatur actio, alteram dulcem fabellam
    edit, & repræsentari ab ingeniosis adolescentibus, quorum ibi
    extant nomina, curat."

Mr. Hallam (Literat. of Europe, vol. i. p. 292., {90} 1st ed.), misled by Warton and others,
gives a very defective and erroneous account of the Progymnasmata Scænica, which he supposed
to contain several dramas; but he concludes by saying, "the book is very scarce, and I have
never seen it." Gottsched, in his History of the German Drama, merely says he had seen some
notice of a Latin drama by Reuchlin. Hans Sachs translated it into German, after his manner,
and printed it in 1531 under the title of Henno.

S.W.S.

Mickleham, Dec. 1. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

MYLES BLOMEFYLDE--ORTUS VOCABULORUM.

Sir,--In reference to the Query of BURIENSIS in No. 4. of your periodical, as to the parentage
of Myles Blomefylde, of Bury St. Edmund's, I beg to contribute the following information. In
the library of St. John's College, Cambridge, is a volume containing an unique copy of "the
boke called the Informacyon for pylgrymes vnto the holy lande," printed by Wynkyn de Worde,
in 1524, at the end of which occurs the following manuscript note:--

