Before breaking up, Rumanika wished to give me any number of ivories I might like to mention,
even three or four hundred, as a lasting remembrance that I had done him the honour of visiting
Karague in his lifetime, for though Dagara had given to coloured merchants, he would be the
first who had given to a white man. Of course this royal offer was declined with politeness;
he must understand that it was not the custom of big men in my country to accept presents of
value when we made visits of pleasure. I had enjoyed my residence in Karague, his intellectual
conversations and his kind hospitality, all of which I should record in my books to hand down
to posterity; but if he would give me a cow's horn, I would keep it as a trophy of the happy
days I had spent in his country. He gave me one, measuring 3 feet 5 inches in length, and 18
3/4 inches in circumference at the base. He then offered me a large sheet, made up of a patchwork
of very small N'yera antelope skins, most exquisitely cured and sewn. This I rejected, as he
told me it had been given to himself, explaining that we prided ourselves on never parting
with the gifts of a friend; and this speech tickled his fancy so much, that he said he never
would part with anything I gave him.

8th and 9th.--The 8th went off much in the usual way, by my calling on the king, when I gave
him a pack of playing-cards, which he put into his curiosity-box. He explained to me, at my
request, what sort of things he would like any future visitors to bring him--a piece of gold
and silver embroidery; but, before anything else, I found he would like to have toys--such
as Yankee clocks with the face in a man's stomach, to wind up behind, his eyes rolling with
every beat of the pendulum; or a china-cow milk-pot, a jack-in-the-box, models of men, carriages,
and horses--all animals in fact, and railways in particular.

On the 9th I went out shooting, as Rumanika, with his usual politeness, on hearing my desire
to kill some rhinoceros, ordered his sons to conduct the filed for me. Off we started by sunrise
to the bottom of the hills overlooking the head of the Little Windermere lake. On arrival at
the scene of action--a thicket or acacia shrubs--all the men in the neighbourhood were assembled
to beat. Taking post myself, by direction, in the most likely place to catch a sight of the
animals, the day's work began by the beaters driving the covers in my direction. In a very
short time, a fine male was discovered making towards me, but not exactly knowing where he
should bolt to. While he was in this perplexity, I stole along between the bushes, and caught
sight of him standing as if anchored by the side of a tree and gave him a broadsider with Blissett,
which, too much for his constitution to stand, sent him off trotting, till exhausted by bleeding
he lay down to die, and allowed me to give him a settler.

In a minute or two afterwards, the good young princes, attracted by the sound of the gun, came
to see what was done. Their surprise knew no bounds; they could scarcely believe what they
saw; and then, on recovering, with the spirit of true gentlemen, they seized both my hands,
congratulating me on the magnitude of my success, and pointed out, as an example of it, a bystander
who showed fearful scars, both on his abdomen and at the blade of his shoulder, who they declared
had been run through by one of these animals. It was, therefore, wonderful to them, they observed,
with what calmness I went up to such formidable beasts.

Just at this time a distant cry was heard that another rhinoceros was concealed in a thicket,
and off we set to pursue her. Arriving at the place mentioned, I settled at once I would enter
with only two spare men carrying guns, for the acacia thorns were so thick that the only tracks
into the thicket were runs made by these animals. Leading myself, bending down to steal in,
I tracked up a run till half-way through cover, when suddenly before me, like a pig from a
hole, a large female, with her young one behind her, came straight down whoof-whoofing upon
me. In this awkward fix I forced myself to one side, though pricked all over with thorns in
doing so, and gave her one on the head which knocked her out of my path, and induced her for
safety to make for the open, where I followed her down and gave her another. She then took
to the hills and crossed over a spur, when, following after her, in another dense thicket,
near the head of a glen, I came upon three, who no sooner sighted me, than all in line they
charged down my way. Fortunately at the time my gun-bearers were with me; so, jumping to one
side, I struck them all three in turn. One of them dropped dead a little way on; but the others
only pulled up when they arrived at the bottom. To please myself now I had done quite enough;
but as the princes would have it, I went on with the chase. As one of the two, I could see,
had one of his fore-legs broken, I went at the sounder one, and gave him another shot, which
simply induced him to walk over the lower end of the hill. Then turning to the last one, which
could not escape, I asked the Wanyambo to polish him off with their spears and arrows, that
I might see their mode of sport. As we moved up to the animal, he kept charging with such impetuous
fury, they could not go into him; so I gave him a second ball, which brought him to anchor.
In this helpless state the men set at him in earnest, and a more barbarous finale I never did
witness. Every man sent his spear, assage, or arrow, into his sides, until, completely exhausted,
he sank like a porcupine covered with quills. The day's sport was now ended, so I went home
to breakfast, leaving instructions that the heads should be cut off and sent to the king as
a trophy of what the white man could do.

10th and 11th.--The next day, when I called on Rumanika, the spoils were brought into court,
and in utter astonishment he said, "Well, this must have been done with something more potent
than powder, for neither the Arabs nor Nnanaji, although they talk of their shooting powers,
could have accomplished such a great feat as this. It is no wonder the English are the greatest
men in the world."

Neither the Wanyambo nor the Wahuma would eat the rhinoceros, so I was not sorry to find all
the Wanyamuezi porters of the Arabs at Kufro, on hearing of the sport, come over and carry
away all the flesh. They passed by our camp half borne down with their burdens of sliced flesh,
suspended from poles which they carried on their shoulders; but the following day I was disgusted
by hearing that their masters had forbidden their eating "the carrion," as the throats of the
animals had not been cut; and, moreover, had thrashed them soundly because they complained
they were half starved, which was perfectly true, by the poor food that they got as their pay.

12th.--On visiting Rumanika again, and going through my geographical lessons, he told me, in
confirmation of Musa's old stories, that in Ruanda there existed pigmies who lived in trees,
but occasionally came down at night, and, listening at the hut doors of the men, would wait
until they heard the name of one of its inmates, when they would call him out, and, firing
an arrow into his heart, disappear again in the same way as they came. But, more formidable
even than these little men, there were monsters who could not converse with me, and never showed
themselves unless they saw women pass by; then, in voluptuous excitement, they squeezed them
to death. Many other similar stories were then told, when I, wishing to go, was asked if I
could kill hippopotami. Having answered that I could, the king graciously said he would order
some canoes for me the next morning; and as I declined because Grant could not accompany me,
as a terrible disease had broken out in his leg, he ordered a pig-shooting party. Agreeably
with this, the next day I went out with his sons, numerously attended; but although we beat
the covers all day, the rain was so frequent that the pigs would not bolt.

14th.--After a long and amusing conversation with Rumanika in the morning, I called on one
of his sisters-in-law, married to an elder brother who was born before Dagara ascended the
throne. She was another of those wonders of obesity, unable to stand excepting on all fours.
I was desirous to obtain a good view of her, and actually to measure her, and induced her to
give me facilities for doing so, by offering in return to show her a bit of my naked legs and
arms. The bait took as I wished it, and after getting her to sidle and wriggle into the middle
of the hut, I did as I promised, and then took her dimensions as noted below.

In the evening we had another row with my head men--Baraka having accused Bombay of trying
to kill him with magic. Bombay, who was so incessantly bullied by Baraka's officious attempts
to form party cliques opposed to the interests of the journey, and get him turned out of the
camp, indiscreetly went to one of K'yengo's men, and asked him if he knew of any medicine that
would affect the hearts of the Wanguana so as to incline them towards him; and on the sub-doctor
saying Yes, Bombay gave him some beads, and bought the medicine required, which, put into a
pot of pombe, was placed by Baraka's side. Baraka in the meanwhile got wind of the matter through
K'yengo, who, misunderstanding the true facts of the case, said it was a charm to deprive Baraka
of his life. A court of inquiry having been convened, with all the parties concerned in attendance,
K'yengo's mistake was discovered, and Bombay was lectured for his folly, as he had a thousand
times before abjured his belief in such magical follies; moreover, to punish him for the future,
I took Baraka, whenever I could, with me to visit the king, which, little as it may appear
to others, was of the greatest consequence to the hostile parties.

15th and 16th.--When I next called on Rumanika I gave him a Vautier's binocular and prismatic
compass; on which he politely remarked he was afraid he was robbing me of everything. More
compliments went round, and then he asked if it was true we could open a man's skull, look
at his brains, and close it up again; also if it was true we sailed all round the world into
regions where there was no difference between night and day, and how, when he ploughed the
seas in such enormous vessels as would carry at once 20,000 men, we could explain to the sailors
what they ought to do; for, although he had heard of these things, no one was able to explain
them to him.

After all the explanations were given, he promised me a boat-hunt after the nzoe in the morning;
but when the time came, as difficulties were raised, I asked him to allow us to anticipate
the arrival of Kachuchu, and march on to Kitangule. He answered, with his usual courtesy, That
he would be very glad to oblige us in any way that we liked; but he feared that, as the Waganda
were such superstitious people, some difficulties would arise, and he must decline to comply
with our request. "You must not," he added, "expect ever to find again a reasonable man like
myself." I then gave him a book on "Kafir laws," which he said he would keep for my sake, with
all the rest of the presents, which he was determined never to give away, though it was usual
for him to send novelties of this sort to Mtesa, king of Uganda, and Kamrasi, king of Unyoro,
as a friendly recognition of their superior positions in the world of great monarchies.

17th.--Rumanika next introduced me to an old woman who came from the island of Gasi, situated
in the little Luta Nzige. Both her upper and lower incisors had been extracted, and her upper
lip perforated by a number of small holes, extending in an arch from one corner to the other.
This interesting but ugly old lady narrated the circumstances by which she had been enslaved,
and then sent by Kamrasi as a curiosity to Rumanika, who had ever since kept her as a servant
in his palace. A man from Ruanda then told us of the Wilyanwantu (men-eaters), who disdained
all food but human flesh; and Rumanika confirmed the statement. Though I felt very sceptical
about it, I could not help thinking it a curious coincidence that the position they were said
to occupy agreed with Petherick's Nyam Nyams (men-eaters).

Of far more interest were the results of a conversation which I had with another of Kamrasi's
servants, a man of Amara, as it threw some light upon certain statements made by Mr Leon of
the people of Amara being Christians. He said they bore single holes in the centres both of
their upper and lower lips, as well as in the lobes of both of their ears, in which they wear
small brass rings. They live near the N'yanza--where it is connected by a strait with a salt
lake, and drained by a river to the northward--in comfortable houses, built like the tembes
of Unyamuezi. When killing a cow, they kneel down in an attitude of prayer, with both hands
together, held palm upwards, and utter Zu, a word the meaning of which he did not know. I questioned
him to try if the word had any trace of a Christian meaning--for instance, a corruption of
Jesu--but without success. Circumcision is not known amongst them, neither have they any knowledge
of God or a soul. A tribe called Wakuavi, who are white, and described as not unlike myself,
often came over the water and made raids on their cattle, using the double-edged sime as their
chief weapon of war. These attacks were as often resented, and sometimes led the Wamara in
pursuit a long way into their enemy's country, where, at a place called Kisiguisi, they found
men robed in red cloths. Beads were imported, he thought, both from the east and from Ukidi.
Associated with the countries Masau or Masai, and Usamburu, which he knew, there was a large
mountain, the exact position of which he could not describe.

I took down many words of his language, and found they corresponded with the North African
dialects, as spoken by the people of Kidi, Gani, and Madi. The southerners, speaking of these,
would call them Wakidi, Wagani, and Wamadi, but among themselves the syllable was is not prefixed,
as in the southern dialects, to signify people. Rumanika, who appeared immensely delighted
as he assisted me in putting the questions I wanted, and saw me note them down in my book,
was more confirmed than ever in the truth of my stories that I came from the north, and thought
as the beads came to Amara, so should I be able to open the road and bring him more visitors.
This he knew was his only chance of ever seeing me more, for I swore I would never go back
through Usui, so greatly did I feel the indignities imposed on me by Suwarora.

18th.--To keep the king in good-humour, I now took a table-knife, spoon, and fork to the palace,
which, after their several uses were explained, were consigned to his curiosity-box. Still
Rumanika could not understand how it was I spent so much and travelled so far, or how it happened
such a great country as ours could be ruled by a woman. He asked the Queen's name, how many
children she had, and the mode of succession; then, when fully satisfied, led the way to show
me what his father Dagara had done when wishing to know of what the centre of the earth was
composed. At the back of the palace a deep ditch was cut, several yards long, the end of which
was carried by a subterranean passage into the palace, where it was ended off with a cavern
led into by a very small aperture. It then appeared that Dagara, having failed, in his own
opinion, to arrive any nearer to the object in view, gave the excavating up as a bad job, and
turned the cave into a mysterious abode, where it was confidently asserted he spent many days
without eating or drinking, and turned sometimes into a young man, and then an old one, alternately,
as the humour seized him.

19th to 22d.--On the 19th I went fishing, but without success, for they said the fish would
not take in the lake; and on the following day, as Grant's recovery seemed hopeless, for a
long time at least, I went with all the young princes to se what I could do with the hippopotami
in the lake, said to inhabit the small island of Conty. The part was an exceedingly merry one.
We went off to the island in several canoes, and at once found an immense number of crocodiles
basking in the sun, but not a single hippopotamus was in sight. The princes then, thinking
me "green" at this kind of sport, said the place was enchanted, but I need not fear, for they
would bring them out to my feet by simply calling out certain names, and this was no sooner
done than four old and one young one came immediately in font of us. It seemed quite a sin
to touch them, they looked all so innocent; but as the king wanted to try me again, I gave
one a ball on the head which sent him under, never again to be seen, for on the 22nd, by which
time I supposed he ought to have risen inflated with gases, the king sent out his men to look
out for him; but they returned to say, that whilst all the rest were in the old place, that
one, in particular, could not be found.

On this K'yengo, who happened to be present whilst our interview lasted, explained that the
demons of the deep were annoyed with me for intruding on their preserves, without having the
courtesy to commemorate the event by the sacrifice of a goat or a cow. Rumanika then, at my
suggestions, gave Nnanaji the revolving pistol I first gave him, but not without a sharp rebuke
for his having had the audacity to beg a gun of me in consideration of his being a sportsman.
We then went into a discourse on astrology, when the intelligent Rumanika asked me if the same
sun we saw one day appeared again, or whether fresh suns came every day, and whether or not
the moon made different faces, to laugh at us mortals on earth.

23d and 24th.--This day was spent by the king introducing me to his five fat wives, to show
with what esteem he was held by all the different kings of the countries surrounding. From
Mpororo--which, by the by, is a republic--he was wedded to Kaogez, the daughter of Kahaya,
who is the greatest chief in the country; from Unyoro he received Kauyangi, Kamrasi's daughter;
from Nkole, Kambiri, the late Kasiyonga's daughter; from Utumbi, Kirangu, the late Kiteimbua's
daughter; and lastly, the daughter of Chiuarungi, his head cook.

After presenting Rumanika with an india-rubber band--which, as usual, amused him immensely--for
the honour he had done me in showing me his wives, a party of Waziwa, who had brought some
ivory from Kidi, came to pay their respects to him. On being questioned by me, they said that
they once saw some men like my Wanguana there; they had come from the north to trade, but,
though they carried firearms, they were all killed by the people of Kidi. This was famous;
it corroborated what I knew, but could not convince others of,--that traders could find their
way up to Kidi by the Nile. It in a manner explained also how it was that Kamrasi, some years
before, had obtained some pink beads, of a variety the Zanzibar merchants had never thought
of bringing into the country. Bombay was now quite convinced, and we all became transported
with joy, until Rumanika, reflecting on the sad state of Grant's leg, turned that joy into
grief by saying that the rules of Uganda are so strict, that no one who is sick could enter
the country. "To show," he said, "how absurd they are, your donkey would not be permitted because
he has no trousers; and you even will have to put on a gown, as your unmentionables will be
considered indecorous." I now asked Rumanika if he would assist me in replenishing my fast-ebbing
store of beads, by selling tusks to the Arabs at Kufro, when for every 35lb. weight I would
give him 50 dollars by orders on Zanzibar, and would insure him from being cheated, by sending
a letter of advice to our Consul residing there. At first he demurred, on the high-toned principle
that he could not have any commercial dealings with myself; but, at the instigation of Bombay
and Baraka, who viewed it in its true character, as tending merely to assist my journey in
the best manner he could, without any sacrifice to dignity, he eventually yielded, and, to
prove his earnestness, sent me a large tusk, with a notice that his ivory was not kept in the
palace, but with his officers, and as soon as they could collect it, so soon I should get it.

Rumanika, on hearing that it was our custom to celebrate the birth of our Saviour with a good
feast of beef, sent us an ox. I immediately paid him a visit to offer the compliments of the
season, and at the same time regretted, much to his amusement, that he, as one of the old stock
of Abyssinians, who are the oldest Christians on record, should have forgotten this rite; but
I hoped the time would come when, by making it known that his tribe had lapsed into a state
of heathenism, white teachers would be induced to set it all to rights again. At this time
some Wahaiya traders (who had been invited at my request by Rumanika) arrived. Like the Waziwa,
they had traded with Kidi, and they not only confirmed what the Waziwa had said, but added
that, when trading in those distant parts, they heard of Wanguana coming in vessels to trade
to the north of Unyoro; but the natives there were so savage, they only fought with these foreign
traders. A man of Ruanda now informed us that the cowrie-shells, so plentiful in that country,
come there from the other or western side, but he could not tell whence they were originally
obtained. Rumanika then told me Suwarora had been so frightened by the Watuta, and their boastful
threats to demolish Usui bit by bit, reserving him only as a tit-bit for the end, that he wanted
a plot of ground in Karague to preserve his property in.

26th, 27th, and 28th.--Some other travellers from the north again informed us that they had
heard of Wanguana who attempted to trade in Gani and Chopi, but were killed by the natives.
I now assured Rumanika that in two or three years he would have a greater trade with Egypt
than he ever could have with Zanzibar; for when I opened the road, all those men he heard of
would swarm up here to visit him. He, however, only laughed at my folly in proposing to go
to a place of which all I heard was merely that every stranger who went there was killed. He
began to show a disinclination to allow my going there, and though from the most friendly intention,
this view was alarming, for one word from him could have ruined my projects. As it was, I feared
my followers might take fright and refuse to advance with me. I thought it good policy to talk
of there being many roads leading through Africa, so that Rumanika might see he had not got,
as he thought, the sole key to the interior. I told him again of certain views I once held
of coming to see him from the north up the Nile, and from the east through the Masai. He observed
that, "To open either of those routes, you would require at least two hundred guns." He would,
however, do something when we returned from Uganda; for as Mtesa followed his advice in everything,
so did Kamrasi, for both held the highest opinion of him.

