Now, however, all is changed. In an evil moment for himself, DABCHICK speculated largely and
successfully in the Gold Trust of Guatemala. In a very short time his income was multiplied
by ten. The usual results followed. The happy home in Balham was given up. "People about here,"
said DABCHICK, "are such poor snobs"--and a more ornate mansion in South Kensington was taken
in its stead. The old friends and the old habits were dropped. JOHNNY DABCHICK was sent to
Eton with an immoderate allowance of pocket-money, and was promptly christened "PEKOE" by his
schoolfellows. Mrs. DABCHICK rides in a huge landau with blue wheels, and leaves cards on the
fringes of the aristocracy. DABCHICK himself aspires to Parliament, and never keeps the same
circle of friends for more than about six months. He knows one shady Viscount to whom rumour
asserts that he has lent immense sums of Guatemalan money, and the approach of a Marquis makes
him palpitate with emotion. But he is a profoundly miserable man. Of that I am assured. It
amuses me when I meet him in pompous society to address him lightly as "DAB," and remind him
of the dear old Balham days, and the huge amount of bird's-eye we used to smoke together. For
his motto now is, "Delenda est Balhamia"--I speak of course figuratively--and half-crown havannahs
have usurped the place of the honest briar. I know the poor wretch is making up his mind to
cut me, but I must bear it as best I may.

Now, my dear Sir or Madam, for this melancholy deterioration in the DABCHICKS you are entirely
responsible. I am saddened as I contemplate it, and I appeal to you. Scarify Dukes and Duchesses,
make vain and useless social prigs as miserable as you like, but leave the DABCHICKS of this
world alone. They are simple folk, and really I cannot think that the game is worth the candle.

Believe me to be, your obedient servant,

DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

BROADLY SPEAKING.

Advised by friend to try Norfolk Broads for holiday. Oulton Broad, Wroxham Broad, Fritton Decoy
(curious name!), Yare, Waveney, and no end of other rivers. Yachting, shooting, fishing, pretty
scenery, divine air, he says. Have come down to Yarmouth for a start.

Up the Bure in a yacht, and into river Thurne. All right so far. Fish scarce. My pilot says,
"wait till I get to Hickling Broad. Full of bream and roach." I agree to wait.

In Hickling Broad. Surprised to find notice-boards up all round saying, "sailing" is prohibited
in the Broad, also fishing and shooting! "What's the meaning of this?" I ask pilot. He says,
"it's all the doings of the Lord of the Manor." Wants to keep the Broad free from tourists.
He certainly does it "as to the Manor born." Quite a village autocrat. Shall I be the "Village
HAMPDEN?" I will.

Fishing. Several men on bank shouting at me. One comes off in a boat and serves me with a summons.
This might almost be called a Broad hint to go away! But I don't go. I stop and fish. Another
man comes off in boat and threatens me with action "on behalf of riparian owners." Tell him
"ripe-pear-ian season isn't till Autumn, and I shall wait here till then." He doesn't see the
joke--perhaps too broad for him.

Other yachtsmen, we hear, have been stopped, and threatened. Yachtsmen up in arms generally.
Savage artists wander along banks, denouncing Lord of Manor of Hickling. Say they have "right
of way" along banks (sounds as if they were Railway Guards). Hear that Lord of Manor is going
to put a gunboat on Broad, also torpedoes. Hear, also, that Wroxham Broad--one of the biggest--is
to be closed in same way.

Disgusted at such inhospitality. Back to Yarmouth. Give up yacht, and decide to go to Switzerland
instead. Find Yarmouth yacht-owners furious with Hickling's Lord of Bad Manners. Say "closing
the Broads will ruin them." Very likely, but it'll help the foreign hotel-keeper. Glad to see
they've started a "Norfolk Broads Protection Society," subscriptions to be sent to Lloyd's
Bank. "I know a Bank"--and all lovers of natural scenery and popular rights ought to know it
too, and help in giving the Hickling obstructionist a "heckling," when he takes the matter
(also the Manor) into Court.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A TRIPLE ALLIANCE.

(A SCENE OF TO-DAY, IN A SHAKSPEARIAN SETTING.)

Mr. Punch. "How now, my hearts! Did you never see the picture of 'We Three?'"

Emperor. Marry, forfend, Mr. Punch! Well quoted indeed, and, pertinently, from the Swan! "A
mellifluous, voice, as I am a true Knight!" But talk not of things triune too openly, lest
quidnuncs overhear, and L-B-CH-RE devise thereanent fresh heckling interrogations for the Treasury
Bench.

Mr. Punch. Nay, Kaiser; 'tis not the actual Triple, but the conceivable Quadruple, that perturbs
the importunates. We Three form an informal but fast-knit trinity, that can offend none but
churls, and affright none but dullards. Peace, Goodfellowship, Wit! By my bauble, a triad that
PYTHAGORAS himself might have favoured! Talking of Threes, Kaiser, it's your third visit to
us--and, believe me, you are thrice welcome.

Emperor. (as Jack Falstaff put it), that--you gird not too suspiciously at those who would
fain embrace her abroad!

Mr. Punch. Well quoted, Sir, though not directed to mine address. But "A good wit will make
use of anything. I will turn diseases to commodity." Two diseases of the time are, faction
and fussiness--the one a fever, the other a prurigo. The one makes little of greatness, the
other makes much of littleness. You have been the mark of both, young Hohenzollern!

Emperor. "An't please you, it is the disease of not listening, the malady of not marking, that
I am troubled withal."

Mr. Punch. Falstaff again, and pertinently applied. Fitly did the Fat Knight say that he was
not only witty himself, but the cause that wit is in other men.

Prince. By cock and pye, Poins,--Punch I mean--am I to be out of this tournament of tags, this
joust of quotations? Marry, not so!

    [Grasps the EMPEROR's hand cordially.

Mr. Punch. Bravo! "Delivered with good respect." Your Royal Highness has fairly capped us!
Harry Monmouth, KAISER, could not more fitly have

  "Trimmed up your praises with a princely tongue;
  Spoke your deserving like a chronicle."

and Harry Hotspur less deserved the praise.

Emperor. "I will imitate the honourable Romans in brevity." I can but thank you both!

Mr. Punch. That's as it should be. If 'twere not always wholly so--but no matter! I love not
to speak in needless or heedless dispraise of dignities, of "Shouting Emperors," or "Madcap
Princes," but rather--

  "As in reproof of many tales devised,--
  Which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,--
  By smiling pick-thanks and base newsmongers."

Sweet WILLIAM (of Avon, bien entendu), hath armed us in advance against even the latest developments
of the detestable. The "base newsmongers" of the day are to be shunned as carefully as the
"smiling pick-thanks." They would set strife between the two sides of a sixpence or a sovereign.
In vain, let us hope! Than that Uncle should admire Nephew, and Nephew respect Uncle, who could
wish more or better--for both? We Three!!! My Emperors and Heirs-Apparents, pray charge your
glasses! Something like a Triple Alliance! A Veritable League of Peace! Kaiser; at least this
is as pleasant as the proceedings on board the Cobra during her passage down the Elbe, n'est-ce
pas? No formal appending of Statecraft's Scarlet Seals, or scrawly Imperial Signs-manual need
we for our Amicable Treaty. A handclasp and a Loving-cup shall suffice us for marking the happy
accord of Peace--Goodfellowship--Mirth!!! These be verily the "Central Powers," which RUDINI
might have referred to when he said,--"Our Alliance, firmly and sincerely maintained, will
assure the Peace of Europe for a long time to come." So mote it be! Let us toast them--in a Bumper!

    [Left doing so.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HENLEY REGATTA.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN OARSMAN.)

Sir,--This letter is private and is not intended for publication. I particularly beg that you
will note this, as on a former occasion some remarks of mine, which were intended only for
your private eye, were printed. I of course accepted your assurance that no offence was meant,
and that the oversight was due to a person whose services had since the occurrence been dispensed
with; but I look to you to take care that it shall not happen again. Otherwise the mutual confidence
that should always exist between an editor and his staff cannot possibly be maintained, and
I shall have to transfer my invaluable services to some other paper. The notes and prognostications
which I have laboriously compiled with regard to the final results of the Regatta will arrive
by the next post, and will, I flatter myself, be found to be extraordinarily accurate, besides
being written in that vivid and picturesque style which has made my contributions famous throughout
the civilised world.

There are one or two little matters about which I honestly desire to have your opinion. You
know perfectly well that I was by no means anxious for the position of aquatic reporter. In
vain I pointed out to you that my experience of the river was entirely limited to an occasional
trip by steamboat from Charing Cross to Gravesend. You said that was an amply sufficient qualification,
and that no aquatic reporter who respected himself and his readers, had ever so far degraded
himself as to row in a boat and to place his body in any of the absurd positions which modern
oarsmanship demands. Finding you were inexorable, and knowing your ridiculously hasty temper,
I consented finally to undertake the arduous duties. These circumstances, however, make it
essential that you should give me advice when I require it. For obvious reasons I don't much
like to ask any of the rowing men here any questions. They are mostly in what they call hard
training, which means, I fancy, a condition of high irritability. Their strokes may be long,
but their tempers are, I regret to say, painfully short. Besides, to be candid, I don't wish
to show the least trace of ignorance. My position demands that I should be omniscient, and
omniscient, to all outward appearance, I shall remain.

In the first place what is a "lightship?" As I travelled down to Henley I read in one of the
newspapers that "practice for the Royal Regatta was now in full swing, and that the river was
dotted with lightships of every description." I remember some years ago passing a very pleasant
half hour on board of a lightship moored in the neighbourhood of Broadstairs. The rum was excellent.
I looked forward with a lively pleasure to repeating the experience at Henley. As soon as I
arrived, therefore, I put on my yachting cap (white, with a gold anchor embroidered in front),
hired a boat and a small boy, and directed him to row me immediately to one of the lightships.
I spent at least two hours on the river in company with that boy--a very impudent little fellow,--but
owing no doubt to his stupidity, I failed to find a single vessel which could be fairly described
as a lightship. Finally the boy said they had all been sunk in yesterday's great storm, and
with that inadequate explanation I was forced to content myself. But there is a mystery about
this. Please explain it.

Secondly, I see placards and advertisements all over the place announcing that "the Stewards
Stand." Now this fairly beats me. Why should the stewards stand? They are presumably men of
a certain age, some of them must be of a certain corpulence, and it seems to me a refinement
of cruelty that these faithful officials, of whom, I believe, the respected Mayor of Henley
is one, should be compelled to refrain from seats during the whole of the Regatta. It may be
necessary for them to set an example of true British endurance to the crowds who attend the
Regatta, but in that case surely they ought to be paid for the performance of their duties.

Thirdly, I have heard a good deal of talk about the Visitors' Cup. Being anxious to test its
merits, I went to one of the principal hotels here, and ordered the waiter to bring me a quart
of Visitors' Cup, and to be careful to ice it well. He seemed puzzled, but went away to execute
my orders. After an absence of ten minutes he returned, and informed me, with the Manager's
compliments, that they could not provide me with what I wanted, but that their Champagne-cup
was excellent. I gave the fellow a look, and departed. Perhaps this is only another example
of the asinine and anserous dunderheadedness of these crass provincials. Kindly reply, by wire,
about all the three points I have mentioned.

I have been here for a week, but have, as yet, not been fortunate enough to see any crews.
Indeed, I doubt if there are any here. A good many maniacs disport themselves every day in
rickety things which look something like gigantic needles, and other people have been riding
along the bank, and, very naturally, abusing them loudly for their foolhardy recklessness.
But no amount of abuse causes them to desist. I have puzzled my brains to know what it all
means, but I confess I can't make it out. I fancy I know a boat when I see one, and of course
these ridiculous affairs can't be boats.

Be good enough to send me, by return, at least £100. It's a very difficult and expensive thing
to support the dignity of your paper in this town. Whiskey is very dear, and a great deal goes
a very short way.

Yours sincerely,

THE MAN AT THE OAR.

Henley-on-Thames, July 4.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COMMON COMPLAINT.

(BY A DAILY VICTIM.)

  O Editors, who earn your daily bread
    By giving us all kinds of information,
  There's something that I fear ought to be said,
    Which may--which will arouse your indignation;
  For you may not be happy when it's more than hinted
  Your news is such that we can't read it when it's printed.

  Yet I would have you fully understand
    The real reason why I choose to quarrel
  With what you print--your columns are not banned
    Because their contents are at all immoral
  Yet if there is a scandal, though a small amount of it,
  You sometimes soil your pages with a long account of it.

  Far other reasons urge me to reveal
    My feelings on this matter--to assail your
  Too common practice, and say why I feel
    Your daily efforts are a daily failure;
  Your paper by its columns and its size confuses me,
  And worse--there's nothing in it in the least amuses me.

  Can you indeed in seriousness suppose--
    To me, I tell you, naught could be absurder--
  That anywhere at all there can be those
    Who read the noisome details of a murder,
  Or take delight in knowing that in such a county
  Some teeming, triple mother earns the Royal Bounty?

  Ibsenity! Amid the maze of words
    I find it difficult to pick my way right;
  This critic at the Master only girds,
    That promptly hails him as the "premier playwright."
  Whilst I don't mind confessing that I swear right roundly
  At mention of a subject that I hate profoundly.

  Then Parliament--without the slightest doubt
    Of all dull things the dullest. What could be more
  Distressing than to have to read about
    The coming (?) KEAY, whose other name is SEYMOUR?
  And now that Patriots' speeches flow with milk and honey,
  They're very much less Irish, and of course less funny.

  The Bye-Elections are a little fun,
    I laugh to note the jubilant precision
  With which you tell me that a seat that's won
    Exactly counts two votes on a division,
  Though this is all I care for, and am bored at knowing
  How pleased is Mr. GLADSTONE with the tide that's flowing.

  Yet all these many, varied forms of pain
    Are trifling, small and hardly worth attention.
  One thing is so much worse--oh! pray again
    The "epidemic" never, never mention,
  And promptly tell your poet that the rhyme "cadenza"
  Must never more be worked in for the Influenza!

       *       *       *       *       *

DEFEAT--OR SOMETHING NEAR IT.

  When a few months ago on the Thames with the oar
    The 'Varsities met in a contest of strength,
  7 to 2 were the odds that the Dark Blues would score
    A win, which they did--by a lucky half-length:
  And last week, when the thousands assembled at Lord's
    To see Cambridge win by an innings--at Cricket's
  Great luck they're astonished, as Fortune awards
    The Light Blues the game--by a couple of wickets!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A BALLADE OF EVENING NEWSPAPERS.

  The evening shadows gather round the room;
    How full of joy it were to sit and greet
  The twilight slowly deepening into gloom,
    And in the cool forget the noontide heat.
    The busy hum, the noise of passing feet,
  Such quiet calm could scarcely serve to mar,
    Did there not come to us from out the street,
  Globe, Evening News, Pall Mall, St. James's, Star!

  The gaily-coloured omnibuses loom,
    Approach, and disappear with footsteps fleet,
  The crossing-sweepers blithely ply the broom,
    Policemen slowly pace upon their beat.

  L'ENVOI.

    Friend, if you wish for happiness complete,
  Look for it in some hamlet distant far.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.--FISH-DIET.--I am writing an important historical work, which takes a great
deal out of my brain, and I shall be glad to know what is the best kind of diet for nourishing
the brain-cells. Fish has been strongly recommended to me. Would a herring and a half for breakfast
take me through a chapter on the Norman Conquest? If a herring and a half does for WILLIAM
the Conqueror, how many would be necessary for ELIZABETH? Would a whole salmon or barrel of
oysters be best for tackling our early Constitutional History?--MACAULAY JUNIOR. Created profound
sensation on night he took his seat, by walking about with his hat on. SPEAKER down on him
with swift stern reproof. BAIN couldn't make out what all the bother was about. Seeing a friend
on Bench below him, thought he would go and have a chat with him. Members seated all about
had their hats on; he had cautiously mounted his without reproof, and now, when he moved three
steps with his hat on, Members howled, "Order! order!" and SPEAKER joined in the cry. Six or
seven Members having explained to him that though a Member may wear his hat when seated, the
stability of the Constitution is imperilled if he does not uncover when he moves, albeit a
step, to the right or left, the new Member passed remainder of sitting in safety.

Next night in his place when BARTLEY was speaking from corner seat below Gangway, BAIN on top
Bench behind. Thought he would stroll out. Not going to be caught again moving about with his
hat on. Carefully took it off, and holding it firmly in right hand, walked with springy steps
down Gangway and, crossing between BARTLEY and the Chair, made for the door. As he emerged
in full view, there went up from a hundred throats such a howl of indignation that BAIN stood
stock still; stared round with look of astonishment. Were they howling at him? No doubt about
it. SPEAKER also calling "Order! order!" in those thrillingly solemn tones. What had he done
now? hat in his hand; could someone else's by any chance have got on his head? Passed his left
hand over massive brow. No, all right. Best thing to do would be to get off premises as quickly
as possible. So BAIN bolted.

"My dear fellow," said BARRAN, running after him, "you know you mustn't do that any more. You're
a young man, and I'm an old one. I know all the ropes in this machine. When you want anything
ask me."

"Well," said BAIN, "since you are so kind, I'd like to ask you what I've done now?"

"Done?" cried BARRAN, "why you've crossed between a Member on his legs and the Chair. If you
wanted to go out, you should have gone round by the back of the Bench."

After this BAIN disappeared for some days. Getting coached up in Parliamentary practice. Back
to-night and made maiden speech. Quite delightful; button-holed House as it were; informed
Members he was sent there with a mandate; incidentally mentioned that he was a Magistrate in
several counties; waved his arm in defiance of School Board and sat down, after declaiming,
with much animation, a new and original peroration. "Gentlemen," he said,--"I mean Mr. SPEAKER,
I'm for the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill."

This would have been speech of the evening only for HENRY FOWLER's. That admirable in every
way; a distinct and far advance on a Parliamentary position won by sheer hard work and ability;
an epoch in a Parliamentary career already notable for its steady progress. Pity Mr. G. wasn't
present to witness the triumph of the most promising of his recruits of the '80 Parliament.

Business done.--HENRY FOWLER's Instruction to Education Bill negatived by 267 against 166.

Tuesday.--"My studies as you know, dear TOBY, have not specially lain in the domain of history,"
said Professor STOKES, in the course of a brief address delivered to me in a corner of the
Library. "The pure dry light of mathematics has had an irresistible attraction for me. Possibly,
therefore, I am wrong in some more or less immaterial points when I say that, since the time
of WARWICK, we have had no one prominently in English public affairs with quite the same influence
as is possessed by my Right Hon. friend JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN. The time is gone by when kings
were made and unmade. But my Right Hon. friend has done more than anyone to make the present
Ministry possible, and, having made them, he claims the right to direct, and, in some respects,
even to mould their policy. A very curious phenomenon, very curious indeed. If you were not
so evidently in a hurry, I should like to dilate upon it."

A good deal in what the Professor says; CHAMBERLAIN, as a rule, most considerate in his attitude.
At much pains to preserve an appearance suitable to a Gentleman who sits on the Opposition
Benches, and is supposed to know no more of the secret councils and intentions of the Ministry
than anyone else in same quarter of House. Made a slip in earlier stages of Education Bill;
talked about "Our Bill," and disclosed familiarity with its details remarkable since, at the
time he spoke, it was not printed. Doesn't blunder twice along same road. Pretty to see him
yesterday inviting LORD-ADVOCATE across the table to explain details of measure, he asked leave
to introduce, dealing with state of things in Highlands and Islands of Scotland. CHAMBERLAIN
being much interested in question, having marked it for his own, might be supposed to have
been consulted by LORD-ADVOCATE before Bill was drafted. All a mistake. JOSEPH knew no more
about it than an ordinary Member of Opposition, and would be much obliged if LORD-ADVOCATE
would briefly sketch his Bill.

To-night, on Committee on Education Bill, MUNDELLA moved Amendment extending beyond fourteen
years limit of age at which fee grants would be made. DYKE obdurate. JOKIM wrung his hands,
and protested thing couldn't be done. Hour after hour Debate went forward, Ministers refusing
to budge; JOSEPH chanced to look in after dinner; thinks it would be well to accept Amendment;
says so in brief incisive speech, a very model of debate; and OLD MORALITY straightway capitulates.
Remarkable state of things; as a study more interesting even than mathematics.

Business done.--Education Bill in Committee.

Thursday.--Land Purchase Bill came on in Lords for Committee stage. House unusually crowded;
quite animated in appearance; when at length it gets into Committee LORD CHANCELLOR leaves
Woolsack and, still wearing wig and gown, lends new air of grace and dignity to Ministerial
Bench. Sits between MARKISS and ASHBOURNE. Wonder what the MARKISS thinks of him? For a cheerful,
social, soothing hour, imagine nothing more supreme than the confidences of the MARKISS in
respect to some half-dozen other of his colleagues.

Before Committee is reached, The MCCULLUM MORE comes to front, and modestly engrosses attention.
Other Peers prepared, once in while, to buckle down to hard night's work, fighting over Clauses
of Bill in Committee. That sort of obscure labour might suit them, but not the thing to attract
the MCCULLUM MORE. Had already enjoyed himself on Second Reading, delivering one of those orations
which, as COLCHESTER says, may be magnificent but are not debate. That should have satisfied
vanity of ordinary man; but the MCCULLUM MORE not an ordinary man. There were several things
he forgot to say in the speech. Others had occurred to him since. He might, without stopping
progress of business, work them off in Committee; but in Committee he must needs stand on level
with ordinary Peers anxious to get on with business, and his observations would probably not
be reported. Thing to do was to move Instruction to Committee. This would bring him on first
thing in a full House, before Peers had wearied themselves with application to real business.
So gave notice of Instruction. Doesn't matter in what terms; sufficient that he was able to
deliver his speech. MARKISS a little sarcastic in begging him not to press Instruction. Nobody
showed inclination to debate it, but it had served its turn. Having delivered his speech, The
MCCULLUM MORE stalked off home, leaving to others the drudgery of Committee work.

Business done.--Land Bill through Committee in Lords.

Friday Night.--Education Bill through Committee. Last scene of all a little lively owing to
revolt on Conservative side. RICHARD TEMPLE led it in speech of unwonted eloquence. Quite overflowing
wealth of imagery: described School Board as the ogre that eats up everything; that enough
by way of description; but TEMPLE rising to fresh heights, went on to characterise it as the
thin edge of the wedge.

Capital speech of quite another kind from JENNINGS. As the Member for Sark says, JENNINGS when
he has anything to say to the House of Commons talks, doesn't speechify; style excellent, and
so is the matter. House would like to hear a little oftener from JENNINGS; due to it from Stockport
who has also sent us GEDGE.

Business done.--Education Bill through Committee.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF THE UNSENTIMENTALIST.

THE GREENGROCER'S REBUKE.

  We gave a little dinner; and I own,
    Led by a wish with style to stamp the fête,
  Palmed off, as though a butler of our own,
    A skilled Greengrocer we had in "to wait."--
  I thought he seemed to sway beneath the fish--
    And stagger with a half familiar smile,
  When, lo! he fell, remarking blandly, "Thish
    All comes of tryin' to do the thing in shtyle!"
  I thundered, "Leave the room!" He saw my fix,
    And but retorted, "'Ere, you ain't a Duke!
  I'm not a-goin' without my three-and-six!"
    Thus came on me that Greengrocer's Rebuke!

