Explanation.--Ambition is a desire which increases and strengthens all the emotions, and that
is the reason why it can hardly be kept under control. For so long as a man is possessed by
any desire, he is necessarily at the same time possessed by this. Every noble man, says Cicero,
is led by glory, and even the philosophers who write books about despising glory place their
names on the title-page.

XLV. Luxuriousness is the immoderate desire or love of good living.

XLVI. Drunkenness is the immoderate desire and love of drinking.

XLVII. Avarice is the immoderate desire and love of riches.

XLVIII. Lust is the immoderate desire and love of sexual intercourse.

Explanation.--This desire of sexual intercourse is usually called lust, whether it be held
within bounds or not. I may add that the five last-mentioned emotions have no contraries, for
moderation is a kind of ambition, and I have already observed that temperance, sobriety, and
chastity show a power and not a passion of the mind. Even supposing that an avaricious, ambitious,
or timid man refrains from an excess of eating, drinking, or sexual intercourse, avarice, ambition,
and fear are not therefore the opposites of voluptuousness, drunkenness, or lust. For the avaricious
man generally desires to swallow as much meat and drink as he can, provided only it belong
to another person. The ambitious man, too, if he hopes he can keep it a secret, will restrain
himself in nothing, and if he lives amongst drunkards and libertines, will be more inclined
to their vices just because he is ambitious. The timid man, too, does what he does not will;
and although, in order to avoid death, he may throw his riches into the sea, he remains avaricious;
nor does the lascivious man cease to be lascivious because he is sorry that he cannot gratify
his desire. Absolutely, therefore, these emotions have reference not so much to the acts themselves
of eating and drinking as to the appetite and love itself. Consequently nothing can be opposed
to these emotions but nobility of soul and strength of mind, as we shall see afterwards.

The definitions of jealousy and the other vacillations of the mind I pass over in silence,
both because they are compounded of the emotions which we have already defined, and also because
many of them have no names,--a fact which shows that, for the purposes of life, it is sufficient
to know these combinations generally. Moreover, it follows from the definitions of the emotions
which we have explained that, they all arise from desire, joy, or sorrow, or rather that there
are none but these three, which pass under names varying as their relations and external signs
vary. If, therefore, we attend to these primitive emotions and to what has been said above
about the nature of the mind, we shall be able here to define the emotions in so far as they
are related to the mind alone.

General definition of the emotions.--Emotion, which is called animi pathema, is a confused
idea by which the mind affirms of its body, or any part of it, a greater or less power of existence
than before; and this increase of power being given, the mind itself is determined to one particular
thought rather than to another.

Explanation.--I say, in the first place, that an emotion or passion of the mind is a confused
idea. For we have shown that the mind suffers only in so far as it has inadequate or confused
ideas. I say again, by which the mind affirms of its body, or any part of it, a greater or
less power of existence than before. For all ideas which we possess of bodies indicate the
actual constitution of our body rather than the nature of the external body; but this idea,
which constitutes the form of an emotion, must indicate or express the constitution of the
body, or of some part of it; which constitution the body or any part of it possesses from the
fact that its power of action or force of existence is increased or diminished, helped or limited.
But it is to be observed, that when I say a greater or less power of existence than before,
I do not mean that the mind compares the present with the past constitution of the body, but
that the idea which constitutes the form of emotion affirms something of the body which actually
involves more or less reality than before. Moreover, since the essence of the mind consists
in its affirmation of the actual existence of its body, and since we understand by perfection
the essence itself of the thing, it follows that the mind passes to a greater or less perfection
when it is able to affirm of its body, or some part of it, something which involves a greater
or less reality than before. When, therefore, I have said that the mind's power of thought
is increased or diminished, I have wished to be understood as meaning nothing else than that
the mind has formed an idea of its body, or some part of its body, which expresses more or
less reality than it had hitherto affirmed of the body. For the value of ideas and the actual
power of thought are measured by the value of the object. Finally, I added, which being given,
the mind itself is determined to one particular thought rather than to another, that I might
also express the nature of desire in addition to that of joy and sorrow, which is explained
by the first part of the definition.

I have now, I think, explained the principal emotions and vacillations of the mind which are
compounded of the three primary emotions, desire, joy, and sorrow, and have set them forth
through their first causes. From what has been said it is plain that we are disturbed by external
causes in a number of ways, and that, like the waves of the sea agitated by contrary winds,
we fluctuate in our ignorance of our future and destiny. I have said, however, that I have
only explained the principal mental complications, and not all which may exist. For by the
same method which we have pursued above it would be easy to show that love unites itself to
repentance, scorn, shame, etc.; but I think it has already been made clear to all that the
emotions can be combined in so many ways, and that so many variations can arise, that no limits
can be assigned to their number. It is sufficient for my purpose to have enumerated only those
which are of consequence; the rest, of which I have taken no notice, being more curious than
important.

There is one constantly recurring characteristic of love which I have yet to notice, and that
is, that while we are enjoying the thing which we desired, the body acquires from that fruition
a new disposition by which it is otherwise determined, and the images of other things are excited
in it, and the mind begins to imagine and to desire other things. For example, when we imagine
anything which usually delights our taste, we desire to enjoy it by eating it. But whilst we
enjoy it the stomach becomes full, and the constitution of the body becomes altered. If, therefore,
the body being now otherwise disposed, the image of the food, in consequence of its being present,
and therefore also the effort or desire to eat it, become more intense, then this new disposition
of the body will oppose this effort or desire, and consequently the presence of the food which
we desired will become hateful to us, and this hatefulness is what we call loathing or disgust.

As for the external modifications of the body which are observed in the emotions, such as trembling,
paleness, sobbing, laughter, and the like, I have neglected to notice them, because they belong
to the body alone without any relationship to the mind.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Hence it follows that the mind is subject to passions in proportion to the number of inadequate
ideas which it has, and that it acts in proportion to the number of adequate ideas which it has.

[27] This proposition is self-evident, for the definition of any given thing affirms and does
not deny the existence of the thing; that is to say, it posits the essence of the thing and
does not negate it. So long, therefore, as we attend only to the thing itself, and not to external
causes, we shall discover nothing in it which can destroy it. But the imaginations of the mind
indicate rather the modifications of our body than the nature of external bodies, and therefore
if the body, and consequently the mind, has been at any time, simultaneously affected by two
emotions, whenever it is afterwards affected by one of them, it will also be affected by the other.

Let the mind be supposed to be affected at the same time by two emotions, its power of action
not being increased or diminished by one, while it is increased or diminished by the other.
From the preceding proposition it is plain that when the mind is afterwards affected by the
first emotion through its true cause, which (by hypothesis) of itself neither increases nor
diminishes the mind's power of thinking, it will at the same time be affected by the other
emotion, which does increase or diminish that power, that is to say, it will be affected with
joy or sorrow; and thus the thing itself will be the cause of joy or of sorrow, not of itself,
but accidentally. In the same way it can easily be shown that the same thing may accidentally
be the cause of desire.

The fact that we have contemplated a thing with an emotion of joy or sorrow, of which it is
not the efficient cause, is a sufficient reason for being able to love or hate it.

We now understand why we love or hate certain things from no cause which is known to us, but
merely from sympathy or antipathy, as they say. To this class, too, are to be referred those
objects which affect us with joy or sorrow solely because they are somewhat like objects which
usually affect us with those emotions. I know indeed that the writers who first introduced
the words "Sympathy" and "Antipathy" desired thereby to signify certain hidden qualities of
things, but nevertheless I believe that we shall be permitted to understand by those names
qualities which are plain and well known.

Anything may be accidentally the cause either of hope or fear. Things which are accidentally
the causes either of hope or fear are called good or evil omens. In so far as the omens are
the cause of hope and fear are they the cause of joy or of sorrow, and consequently so far
do we love them or hate them, and endeavor to use them as means to obtain those things for
which we hope, or to remove them as obstacles or causes of fear. Our natural constitution,
too, is such that we easily believe the things we hope for, and believe with difficulty those
we fear, and we think too much of the former and too little of the latter. Thus have superstitions
arisen, by which men are everywhere disquieted. I do not consider it worth while to go any
further, and to explain here all those vacillations of mind which arise from hope and fear,
since it follows from the definition alone of these emotions that hope cannot exist without
fear, nor fear without hope.

If we imagine a certain thing to possess something which resembles an object which usually
affects the mind with joy or sorrow, although the quality in which the thing resembles the
object is not the efficient cause of these emotions, we shall nevertheless, by virtue of the
resemblance alone, love or hate the thing.

If we have been affected with joy or sorrow by any one who belongs to a class or nation different
from our own, and if our joy or sorrow is accompanied with the idea of this person as its cause,
under the common name of his class or nation, we shall not love or hate him merely, but the
whole of the class or nation to which he belongs.

The Imitation and Reciprocation of the Emotions

I

The images of things are modifications of the human body, and the ideas of these modifications
represent to us external bodies as if they were present, that is to say, these ideas involve
both the nature of our own body and at the same time the present nature of the external body.
If, therefore, the nature of the external body be like that of our body, then the idea of the
external body which we imagine will involve a modification of our body like that of the external
body. Therefore, if we imagine any one who is like ourselves to be affected by a modification,
this imagination will express a modification of our body like that modification, and therefore
we shall be modified with a similar modification ourselves, because we imagine something like
us to be modified with the same. If, on the other hand, we hate a thing which is like ourselves,
we shall so far be modified by a modification contrary and not similar to that with which it
is modified.

If we imagine that a person enjoys a thing, that will be a sufficient reason for making us
love the thing and desiring to enjoy it. If we imagine that a person enjoys a thing which only
one can possess, we do all we can to prevent his possessing it. His enjoyment of the thing
is an obstacle to our joy, and we endeavor to bring into existence everything which we imagine
conduces to joy, and to remove or destroy everything opposed to it, or which we imagine conduces
to sorrow.

We see, therefore, that the nature of man is generally constituted so as to pity those who
are in adversity and envy those who are in prosperity, and he envies with a hatred which is
the greater in proportion as he loves what he imagines another possesses. We see also that
from the same property of human nature from which it follows that men pity one another it also
follows that they are envious and ambitious. If we will consult experience, we shall find that
she teaches the same doctrine, especially if we consider the first years of our life. For we
find that children, because their body is, as it were, continually in equilibrium, laugh and
cry merely because they see others do the same; whatever else they see others do they immediately
wish to imitate; everything which they think is pleasing to other people they want. And the
reason is, as we have said, that the images of things are the modifications themselves of the
human body, or the ways in which it is modified by external causes and disposed to this or
that action.

II

If we imagine that we are hated by another without having given him any cause for it, we shall
hate him in return. If we imagine that we have given just cause for the hatred, we shall then
be affected with shame. This, however, rarely happens; we endeavor to affirm everything, both
concerning ourselves and concerning the beloved object which we imagine will affect us or the
object with joy, and, on the contrary, we endeavor to deny everything that will affect either
it or ourselves with sorrow.

This reciprocity of hatred may also arise from the fact that hatred is followed by an attempt
to bring evil upon him who is hated. If, therefore, we imagine that we are hated by any one
else, we shall imagine him as the cause of some evil or sorrow, and thus we shall be affected
with sorrow or apprehension accompanied with the idea of the person who hates us as a cause;
that is to say, we shall hate him in return, as we have said above.

If we imagine that the person we love is affected with hatred towards us, we shall be agitated
at the same time both with love and hatred. For in so far as we imagine that we are hated are
we determined to hate him in return. But (by hypothesis) we love him notwithstanding, and therefore
we shall be agitated both by love and hatred.

If we imagine that an evil has been brought upon us through the hatred of some person towards
whom we have hitherto been moved by no emotion, we shall immediately endeavor to return that
evil upon him.

If we imagine that any one like ourselves is affected with hatred towards an object like ourselves
which we love, we shall hate him. If we imagine that we are beloved by a person without having
given any cause for the love we shall love him in return.

If we imagine that we have given just cause for love, we shall pride ourselves upon it. This
frequently occurs, and we have said that the contrary takes place when we believe that we are
hated by another person. This reciprocal love, and consequently this attempt to do good to
the person who loves us, and who endeavors to do good to us, is called thankfulness or gratitude,
and from this we can see how much readier men are to revenge themselves than to return a benefit.

If we imagine that we are loved by a person we hate, we shall at the same time be agitated
both by love and hatred. If the hatred prevail, we shall endeavor to bring evil upon the person
by whom we are loved. This emotion is called Cruelty, especially if it is believed that the
person who loves has not given any ordinary reason for hatred.

The "Herd Instinct"

If we imagine men to love or hate a thing, we shall therefore love or hate it; that is to say,
we shall therefore rejoice or be sad at the presence of the thing, and therefore we shall endeavor
to do everything which we imagine men[28] will look upon with joy, and, on the contrary, we
shall be averse to doing anything to which we imagine men are averse.

He who imagines that he affects others with joy or sorrow will necessarily be affected with
joy or sorrow. But since man is conscious of himself by means of the emotions by which he is
determined to act; therefore if a person has done anything which he imagines will affect others
with joy, he also will be affected with joy, accompanied with an idea of himself as its cause;
that is to say, he will look upon himself with joy. If, on the other hand, he has done anything
which he imagines will affect others with sorrow, he will look upon himself with sorrow.

If we imagine that a person loves, desires, or hates a thing which we ourselves love, desire,
or hate, we shall on that account love, desire, or hate the thing more steadily. If, on the
other hand, we imagine that he is averse to the thing we love or loves the thing to which we
are averse, we shall then suffer vacillation of mind.

It follows from this proposition that every one endeavors as much as possible to make others
love what he loves, and to hate what he hates. Hence the poet says:

    Speremus pariter, pariter metuamus amantes;
    Ferreus est, si quis, quod sinit alter, amat.

This effort to make every one approve what we love or hate is in truth ambition, and so we
see that each person by nature desires that other persons should live according to his way
of thinking; but if every one does this, then all are a hindrance to one another, and if every
one wishes to be praised or beloved by the rest, then they all hate one another.

The Varieties of Emotion

Joy and sorrow, and consequently the emotions which are compounded of these or derived from
them, are passions. But we necessarily suffer in so far as we have inadequate ideas, and only
in so far as we have them; that is to say, we necessarily suffer only in so far as we imagine,
or in so far as we are affected by a modification which involves the nature of our body and
that of an external body. The nature, therefore, of each passion must necessarily be explained
in such a manner, that the nature of the object by which we are affected is expressed. The
joy, for example, which springs from an object A involves the nature of that object A, and
the joy which springs from B involves the nature of that object B, and therefore these two
emotions of joy are of a different nature, because they arise from causes of a different nature.
In like manner the emotion of sorrow which arises from one object is of a different kind from
that which arises from another cause, and the same thing is to be understood of love, hatred,
hope, fear, vacillation of mind, etc.; so that there are necessarily just as many kinds of
joy, sorrow, love, hatred, etc., as there are kinds of objects by which we are affected. But
desire is the essence itself or nature of a person in so far as this nature is conceived from
its given constitution as determined towards any action, and therefore as a person is affected
by external causes with this or that kind of joy, sorrow, love, hatred, etc., that is to say,
as his nature is constituted in this or that way, so must his desire vary and the nature of
one desire differ from that of another, just as the emotions from which each desire arises
differ. There are as many kinds of desires, therefore, as there are kinds of joy, sorrow, love,
etc., and, consequently (as we have just shown), as there are kinds of objects by which we
are affected.

All emotions are related to desire, joy, or sorrow, as the definitions show which we have given
of those emotions. But desire is the very nature or essence of a person and therefore the desire
of one person differs from the desire of another as much as the nature or essence of the one
differs from that of the other. Again, joy and sorrow are passions by which the power of a
person or his effort to persevere in his own being is increased or diminished, helped, or limited.
But by the effort to persevere in his own being, in so far as it is related at the same time
to the mind and the body, we understand appetite and desire, and therefore joy and sorrow are
desire or appetite in so far as the latter is increased, diminished, helped, or limited by
external causes; that is to say they are the nature itself of each person.

The joy or sorrow of one person therefore differs from the joy or sorrow of another as much
as the nature or essence of one person differs from that of the other, and consequently the
emotion of one person differs from the corresponding emotion of another.

Hence it follows that the emotions of animals which are called irrational (for after we have
learned the origin of the mind we can in no way doubt that brutes feel) differ from human emotions
as much as the nature of a brute differs from that of a man. Both the man and the horse, for
example, are swayed by the lust to propagate, but the horse is swayed by equine lust and the
man by that which is human. The lusts and appetites of insects, fishes, and birds must vary
in the same way; and so, although each individual lives contented with its own nature and delights
in it, nevertheless the life with which it is contented and its joy are nothing but the idea
or soul of that individual, and so the joy of one differs in character from the joy of the
other as much as the essence of the one differs from the essence of the other. Finally, it
follows from the preceding proposition that the joy by which the drunkard is enslaved is altogether
different from the joy which is the portion of the philosopher,--a thing I wished just to hint
in passing.

The Inconstancy of the Emotions

The human body is affected by external bodies in a number of ways. Two men, therefore, may
be affected in different ways at the same time, and therefore they can be affected by one and
the same object in different ways. Again the human body may be affected now in this and now
in that way, and consequently it may be affected by one and the same object in different ways
at different times.

We thus see that it is possible for one man to love a thing and for another man to hate it;
for this man to fear what this man does not fear, and for the same man to love what before
he hated, and to dare to do what before he feared. Again, since each judges according to his
own emotion what is good and what is evil, what is better and what is worse, it follows that
men may change in their judgment as they do in their emotions, and hence it comes to pass that
when we compare men, we distinguish them solely by the difference in their emotions, calling
some brave, others timid, and others by other names.

For example, I shall call a man brave who despises an evil which I usually fear, and if, besides
this, I consider the fact that his desire of doing evil to a person whom he hates or doing
good to one whom he loves is not restrained by that fear of evil by which I am usually restrained,
I call him audacious. On the other hand, the man who fears an evil which I usually despise
will appear timid, and if, besides this, I consider that his desire is restrained by the fear
of an evil which has no power to restrain me, I call him pusillanimous; and in this way everybody
will pass judgment.

Finally, from this nature of man and the inconstancy of his judgment, in consequence of which
he often judges things from mere emotion, and the things which he believes contribute to his
joy or his sorrow, and which, therefore, he endeavors to bring to pass or remove, are often
only imaginary--to say nothing about the uncertainty of things--it is easy to see that a man
may often be himself the cause of his sorrow or his joy, or of being affected with sorrow or
joy accompanied with the idea of himself as its cause, so that we can easily understand what
repentance and what self-approval are.

Love and hatred towards any object, for example, towards Peter, are destroyed if the joy and
the sorrow which they respectively involve be joined to the idea of another cause; and they
are respectively diminished in proportion as we imagine that Peter has not been their sole cause.

For the same reason, love or hatred towards an object we imagine to be free must be greater
than towards an object which is under necessity.

An object which we imagine to be free must be perceived through itself and without others.
If, therefore, we imagine it to be the cause of joy or sorrow, we shall for that reason alone
love or hate it, and that too with the greatest love or the greatest hatred which can spring
from the given emotion. But if we imagine that the object which is the cause of that emotion
is necessary, then we shall imagine it as the cause of that emotion, not alone, but together
with other causes, and so our love or hatred towards it will be less.

Hence it follows that our hatred or love towards one another is greater than towards other
things, because we think we are free.

The Power of Love Over Hate

If we imagine that the person we hate is affected with hatred towards us, a new hatred is thereby
produced, the old hatred still remaining (by hypothesis). If, on the other hand, we imagine
him to be affected with love towards us, in so far as we imagine it shall we look upon ourselves
with joy, and endeavor to please him; that is to say, in so far shall we endeavor not to hate
him nor to affect him with sorrow. This effort will be greater or less as the emotion from
which it arises is greater or less, and, therefore, should it be greater than that which springs
from hatred, and by which we endeavor to affect with sorrow the object we hate, then it will
prevail and banish hatred from the mind. Hatred is increased through return of hatred, but
may be destroyed by love.

Hatred which is altogether overcome by love passes into love, and the love is therefore greater
than if hatred had not preceded it. For if we begin to love a thing which we hated, or upon
which we were in the habit of looking with sorrow, we shall rejoice for the very reason that
we love, and to this joy which love involves a new joy is added, which springs from the fact
that the effort to remove the sorrow which hatred involves, is so much assisted, there being
also present before us as the cause of our joy the idea of the person whom we hated.

Notwithstanding the truth of this proposition, no one will try to hate a thing or will wish
to be affected with sorrow in order that he may rejoice the more; that is to say, no one will
desire to inflict loss on himself in the hope of recovering the loss, or to become ill in the
hope of getting well, inasmuch as every one will always try to preserve his being and to remove
sorrow from himself as much as possible. Moreover, if it can be imagined that it is possible
for us to desire to hate a person in order that we may love him afterwards the more, we must
always desire to continue the hatred. For the love will be the greater as the hatred has been
greater, and therefore we shall always desire the hatred to be more and more increased. Upon
the same principle we shall desire that our sickness may continue and increase in order that
we may afterwards enjoy the greater pleasure when we get well, and therefore we shall always
desire sickness, which is absurd.

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Both here and in what follows to whom we are moved by no emotion I understand by the word
men, men (Sp.).

THIRD PART

ON MAN'S WELL-BEING

All happiness or unhappiness solely depends upon the quality of the object to which we are
attached by love. Love for an object eternal and infinite feeds the mind with joy alone, a
joy that is free from all sorrow.

SPINOZA.

CHAPTER XIV

OF HUMAN BONDAGE

Introductory

The impotence of man to govern or restrain the emotions I call bondage, for a man who is under
their control is not his own master, but is mastered by fortune, in whose power he is, so that
he is often forced to follow the worse, although he sees the better before him. I propose in
this part to demonstrate why this is, and also to show what of good and evil the emotions possess.

But before I begin I should like to say a few words about perfection and imperfection, and
about good and evil. If a man has proposed to do a thing and has accomplished it, he calls
it perfect, and not only he, but every one else who has really known or has believed that he
has known the mind and intention of the author of that work will call it perfect too. For example,
having seen some work (which I suppose to be as yet not finished), if we know that the intention
of the author of that work is to build a house, we shall call the house imperfect; while, on
the other hand, we shall call it perfect as soon as we see the work has been brought to the
end which the author had determined for it. But if we see any work such as we have never seen
before, and if we do not know the mind of the workman, we shall then not be able to say whether
the work is perfect or imperfect.

This seems to have been the first signification of these words; but afterwards men began to
form universal ideas, to think out for themselves types of houses, buildings, castles, and
to prefer some types of things to others; and so it happened that each person called a thing
perfect which seemed to agree with the universal idea which he had formed of that thing, and,
on the other hand, he called a thing imperfect which seemed to agree less with his typal conception,
although, according to the intention of the workman, it had been entirely completed. This appears
to be the only reason why the words perfect and imperfect are commonly applied to natural objects
which are not made with human hands; for men are in the habit of forming, both of natural as
well as of artificial objects, universal ideas which they regard as types of things, and which
they think Nature has in view, setting them before herself as types too; it being the common
opinion that she does nothing except for the sake of some end. When, therefore, men see something
done by Nature which does not altogether answer to that typal conception which they have of
the thing, they think that Nature herself has failed or committed an error, and that she has
left the thing imperfect.

Thus we see that the custom of applying the words perfect and imperfect to natural objects
has arisen rather from prejudice than from true knowledge of them. For we have shown that Nature
does nothing for the sake of an end, for that eternal and infinite Being whom we call God or
Nature acts by the same necessity by which He exists; for we have shown that He acts by the
same necessity of nature as that by which He exists. The reason or cause, therefore, why God
or Nature acts and the reason why He exists are one and the same. Since, therefore, He exists
for no end, He acts for no end; and since He has no principle or end of existence, He has no
principle or end of action. A final cause, as it is called, is nothing, therefore, but human
desire, in so far as this is considered as the principle or primary cause of anything. For
example, when we say that the having a house to live in was the final cause of this or that
house, we merely mean that a man, because he imagined the advantages of a domestic life, desired
to build a house. Therefore, having a house to live in, in so far as it is considered as a
final cause, is merely this particular desire, which is really an efficient cause, and is considered
as primary, because men are usually ignorant of the causes of their desires; for, as I have
often said, we are conscious of our actions and desires, but ignorant of the causes by which
we are determined to desire anything. As for the vulgar opinion that Nature sometimes fails
or commits an error, or produces imperfect things, I class it amongst those fictions mentioned
above.[29]

Perfection, therefore, and imperfection are really only modes of thought; that is to say, notions
which we are in the habit of forming from the comparison with one another of individuals of
the same species or genus, and this is the reason why I have said that by reality and perfection
I understand the same thing; for we are in the habit of referring all individuals in Nature
to one genus, which is called the most general; that is to say, to the notion of being, which
embraces absolutely all the individual objects in Nature. In so far, therefore, as we refer
the individual objects in Nature to this genus, and compare them one with another, and discover
that some possess more being or reality than others, in so far do we call some more perfect
than others; and in so far as we assign to the latter anything which, like limitation, termination,
impotence, etc., involves negation, shall we call them imperfect, because they do not affect
our minds so strongly as those we call perfect, but not because anything which really belongs
to them is wanting, or because Nature has committed an error. For nothing belongs to the nature
of anything excepting that which follows from the necessity of the nature of the efficient
cause, and whatever follows from the necessity of the nature of the efficient cause necessarily
happens.

With regard to good and evil, these terms indicate nothing positive in things considered in
themselves, nor are they anything else than modes of thought, or notions which we form from
the comparison of one thing with another. For one and the same thing may at the same time be
both good and evil or indifferent. Music, for example, is good to a melancholy person, bad
to one mourning, while to a deaf man it is neither good nor bad. But although things are so,
we must retain these words. For since we desire to form for ourselves an idea of man upon which
we may look as a model of human nature, it will be of service to us to retain these expressions
in the sense I have mentioned.

By good, therefore, I understand in the following pages everything which we are certain is
a means by which we may approach nearer and nearer to the model of human nature we set before
us. By evil, on the contrary, I understand everything which we are certain hinders us from
reaching that model. Again, I shall call men more or less perfect or imperfect in so far as
they approach more or less nearly to this same model. For it is to be carefully observed, that
when I say that an individual passes from a less to a greater perfection and vice versa, I
do not understand that from one essence or form he is changed into another (for a horse, for
instance, would be as much destroyed if it were changed into a man as if it were changed into
an insect), but rather we conceive that his power of action, in so far as it is understood
by his own nature, is increased or diminished. Finally, by perfection generally, I understand,
as I have said, reality; that is to say, the essence of any object in so far as it exists and
acts in a certain manner, no regard being paid to its duration. For no individual thing can
be said to be more perfect because for a longer time it has persevered in existence; inasmuch
as the duration of things cannot be determined by their essence, the essence of things involving
no fixed or determined period of existence; any object, whether it be more or less perfect,
always being able to persevere in existence with the same force as that with which it commenced
existence. All things, therefore, are equal in this respect.

Definitions

I.--By good, I understand that which we certainly know is useful to us.

II. By evil, on the contrary, I understand that which we certainly know hinders us from possessing
anything that is good.

With regard to these two definitions, see the close of the preceding.

III. I call individual things contingent in so far as we discover nothing, whilst we attend
to their essence alone, which necessarily posits their existence or which necessarily excludes it.

IV. I call these individual things possible, in so far as we are ignorant, whilst we attend
to the cause from which they must be produced, whether these causes are determined to the production
of these things.

V. By contrary emotions, I understand in the following pages those which, although they may
be of the same kind, draw a man in different directions; such as voluptuousness and avarice,
which are both a species of love, and are not contrary to one another by nature, but only by
accident.

VI. I here call a thing past or future in so far as we have been or shall be affected by it;
for example, in so far as we have seen a thing or are about to see it, in so far as it has
strengthened us or will strengthen us, has injured or will injure us. For in so far as we thus
imagine it do we affirm its existence; that is to say, the body is affected by no mode which
excludes the existence of the thing, and therefore the body is affected by the image of the
thing in the same way as if the thing itself were present. But because it generally happens
that those who possess much experience hesitate when they think of a thing as past or future,
and doubt greatly concerning its issue, therefore the emotions which spring from such images
of things are not so constant, but are generally disturbed by the images of other things, until
men become more sure of the issue.

However, it is to be observed that it is the same with time as it is with place; for as beyond
a certain limit we can form no distinct imagination of distance--that is to say, as we usually
imagine all objects to be equally distant from us, and as if they were on the same plane, if
their distance from us exceeds 200 feet, or if their distance from the position we occupy is
greater than we can distinctly imagine--so we imagine all objects to be equally distant from
the present time, and refer them as if to one moment, if the period to which their existence
belongs is separated from the present by a longer interval than we can usually imagine distinctly.

VII. By end for the sake of which we do anything, I understand appetite.

VIII. By virtue and power, I understand the same thing; that is to say, virtue, in so far as
it is related to man, is the essence itself or nature of the man in so far as it has the power
of effecting certain things which can be understood through the laws of its nature alone.

Axiom

There is no individual thing in Nature which is not surpassed in strength and power by some
other thing; but any individual thing being given, another and a stronger is also given, by
which the former can be destroyed.

Man's Place in Nature

The power by which individual things and, consequently, man preserve their being is the actual
power of God or Nature, not in so far as it is infinite, but in so far as it can be manifested
by the actual essence of man. The power therefore of man, in so far as it is manifested by
his actual essence is part of the infinite power of God or Nature, that is to say, part of
His essence. Again, if it were possible that man could suffer no changes but those which can
be understood through his nature alone, it would follow that he could not perish, but that
he would exist forever necessarily; and this necessary existence must result from a cause whose
power is either finite or infinite, that is to say, either from the power of man alone, which
would be able to place at a distance from himself all other changes which could take their
origin from external causes, or it must result from the infinite power of Nature by which all
individual things would be so directed that man could suffer no changes but those tending to
his preservation.

But the first case is absurd. The force by which man perseveres in existence is limited, and
infinitely surpassed by the power of external causes. This is evident from the Axiom. Therefore
if it were possible for a man to suffer no changes but those which could be understood through
his own nature alone, and consequently (as we have shown) that he should always necessarily
exist, this must follow from the infinite power of God; and therefore from the necessity of
the divine nature, in so far as it is considered as affected by the idea of any one man, the
whole order of Nature, in so far as it is conceived under the attributes of thought and extension,
would have to be deduced. From this it would follow that man would be infinite, which (by the
first part of this demonstration) is an absurdity. It is impossible, therefore, that a man
can suffer no changes but those of which he is the adequate cause.

Hence it follows that a man is necessarily always subject to passions, and that he follows
and obeys the common order of Nature, accommodating himself to it as far as the nature of things
requires. The force and increase of any passion and its perseverance in existence are not limited
by the power by which we endeavor to persevere in existence, but by the power of an external
cause compared with our own power.

The Nature of Good and Evil

We call a thing good which contributes to the preservation of our being, and we call a thing
evil if it is an obstacle to the preservation of our being; that is to say, a thing is called
by us good or evil as it increases or diminishes, helps or restrains, our power of action.
In so far, therefore, as we perceive that any object affects us with joy or sorrow do we call
it good or evil, and therefore the knowledge of good or evil is nothing but an idea of joy
or sorrow which necessarily follows from the emotion itself of joy or sorrow. But this idea
is united to the emotion in the same way as the mind is united to the body, or, in other words,
this idea is not actually distinguished from the emotion itself; that is to say, it is not
actually distinguished from the idea of the modification of the body, unless in conception
alone. This knowledge, therefore, of good and evil is nothing but the emotion itself of joy
and sorrow in so far as we are conscious of it.

The Control of the Emotions

An emotion, in so far as it is related to the mind, is an idea by which the mind affirms a
greater or less power of existence for its body than the body possessed before. Whenever, therefore,
the mind is agitated by any emotion, the body is at the same time affected with a modification
by which its power of action is increased or diminished. Again, this modification of the body
receives from its own cause a power to persevere in its own being, a power, therefore, which
cannot be restrained nor removed unless by a bodily cause affecting the body with a modification
contrary to the first, and stronger than it. Thus the mind is affected by the idea of a modification
stronger than the former and contrary to it; that is to say, it will be affected with an emotion
stronger than the former and contrary to it, and this stronger emotion will exclude the existence
of the other or remove it. Thus an emotion cannot be restrained nor removed unless by an opposed
and stronger emotion.

An emotion, in so far as it is related to the mind, cannot be restrained nor removed unless
by the idea of a bodily modification opposed to that which we suffer and stronger than it.
For the emotion which we suffer cannot be restrained nor removed unless by an opposed and stronger
emotion; that is to say, it cannot be removed unless by the idea of a bodily modification stronger
than that which affects us, and opposed to it.

The force and increase of any passion and its perseverance in existence are limited by the
power of an external cause compared with our own power and therefore the other actions or power
of a man may be so far surpassed by force of some passion or emotion, that the emotion may
obstinately cling to him.

An emotion is an idea by which the mind affirms a greater or less power of existence for the
body than it possessed before, and therefore this idea has nothing positive which can be removed
by the presence of the truth, and consequently the true knowledge of good and evil, in so far
as it is true, can restrain no emotion. But in so far as it is an emotion will it restrain
any other emotion, provided that the latter be the weaker of the two.

From the true knowledge of good and evil, in so far as this is an emotion, necessarily arises
desire, which is greater in proportion as the emotion from which it springs is greater. But
this desire (by hypothesis), because it springs from our understanding, something truly follows
therefore in us in so far as we act, and therefore must be understood through our essence alone,
and consequently its strength and increase must be limited by human power alone. But the desires
which spring from the emotions by which we are agitated are greater as the emotions themselves
are greater, and therefore their strength and increase must be limited by the power of external
causes, a power which, if it be compared with our own, indefinitely surpasses it. The desires,
therefore, which take their origin from such emotions as these may be much stronger than that
which takes its origin from a true knowledge of good and evil, and the former may be able to
restrain and extinguish the latter.

Desire is the very essence of man, that is to say, the effort by which a man strives to persevere
in his being. The desire, therefore, which springs from joy, by that very emotion of joy is
assisted or increased, while that which springs from sorrow, by that very emotion of sorrow
is lessened or restrained, and so the force of the desire which springs from joy must be limited
by human power, together with the power of an external cause, while that which springs from
sorrow must be limited by human power alone. The latter is, therefore, weaker than the former.

How the Strength of the Emotions Varies

I

The imagination is an idea by which the mind contemplates an object as present, an idea which
nevertheless indicates the constitution of the human body rather than the nature of the external
object. Imagination, therefore, is an emotion in so far as it indicates the constitution of
the body. But the imagination increases in intensity in proportion as we imagine nothing which
excludes the present existence of the external object. If, therefore, we imagine the cause
of an emotion to be actually present with us, that emotion will be intenser or stronger than
if we imagined the cause not to be present.

When I said that we are affected by the image of an object in the future or the past with the
same emotion with which we should be affected if the object we imagined were actually present,
I was careful to warn the reader that this was true in so far only as we attend to the image
alone of the object itself, for the image is of the same nature whether we have imagined the
object or not; but I have not denied that the image becomes weaker when we contemplate as present
other objects which exclude the present existence of the future object.

The image of a past or future object, that is to say, of an object which we contemplate in
relation to the past or future to the exclusion of the present, other things being equal, is
weaker than the image of a present object, and consequently the emotion towards a future or
past object, other things being equal, is weaker then than the emotion towards a present object.

The desire which springs from a knowledge of good and evil can be easily extinguished or restrained,
in so far as this knowledge is connected with the future, by the desire of things which in
the present are sweet.

II

In so far as we imagine any object to be necessary do we affirm its existence, and, on the
other hand, we deny its existence in so far as we imagine it to be not necessary and therefore
the emotion towards an object which we imagine as necessary, other things being equal, is stronger
than that towards an object that is possible, contingent, or not necessary.

In so far as we imagine an object as contingent, we are not affected by the image of any other
object which posits the existence of the first, but, on the contrary (by hypothesis), we imagine
some things which exclude its present existence. But in so far as we imagine any object in
the future to be possible do we imagine some things which posit its existence, that is to say,
things which foster hope or fear, and therefore the emotion towards an object which we know
does not exist in the present, and which we imagine as possible, other things being equal,
is stronger than the emotion towards a contingent object.

The emotion towards an object which we imagine to exist in the present is stronger than if
we imagined it as future, and is much stronger if we imagine the future to be at a great distance
from the present time. The emotion, therefore, towards an object which we imagine will not
exist for a long time is so much feebler than if we imagined it as present, and nevertheless
is stronger than if we imagined it as contingent; and therefore the emotion towards a contingent
object is much feebler than if we imagined the object to be present to us. But in so far as
we imagine it in relationship to past time are we supposed to imagine something which brings
it back to the memory or which excites its image and therefore so far causes us to contemplate
it as present. Therefore, the emotion towards a contingent object which we know does not exist
in the present, other things being equal, will be weaker than the emotion towards a past object.

In these propositions I consider that I have explained why men are more strongly influenced
by an opinion than by true reason, and why the true knowledge of good and evil causes disturbance
in the mind, and often gives way to every kind of lust, whence the saying of the poet, "Video
meliora proboque, deteriora sequor." The same thought appears to have been in the mind of the
Preacher when he said, "He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow." I say these things
not because I would be understood to conclude, therefore, that it is better to be ignorant
than to be wise, or that the wise man in governing his passions is nothing better than the
fool, but I say them because it is necessary for us to know both the strength and weakness
of our nature, so that we may determine what reason can do and what it cannot do in governing
our emotions.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] Chapter Eight ad fin.

CHAPTER XV

THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE MORAL LIFE

Introductory

I have briefly explained the causes of human impotence and want of stability, and why men do
not obey the dictates of reason. It remains for me now to show what it is which reason prescribes
to us, which emotions agree with the rules of human reason, and which, on the contrary, are
opposed to these rules. Before, however, I begin to demonstrate these things by our full method,
I should like briefly to set forth here these dictates of reason, in order that what I have
in my mind about them may be easily comprehended by all.

Since reason demands nothing which is opposed to Nature, it demands, therefore, that every
person should love himself, should seek his own profit--what is truly profitable to him--should
desire everything that really leads man to greater perfection, and absolutely that every one
should endeavor, as far as in him lies, to preserve his own being. This is all true as necessarily
as that the whole is greater than its part. Again, since virtue means nothing but acting according
to the laws of our own nature, and since no one endeavors to preserve his being except in accordance
with the laws of his own nature, it follows: Firstly, That the foundation of virtue is that
endeavor itself to preserve our own being, and that happiness consists in this--that a man
can preserve his own being. Secondly, It follows that virtue is to be desired for its own sake,
nor is there anything more excellent or more useful to us than virtue, for the sake of which
virtue ought to be desired. Thirdly, It follows that all persons who kill themselves are impotent
in mind, and have been thoroughly overcome by external causes opposed to their nature.

Again, we can never free ourselves from the need of something outside us for the preservation
of our being, and we can never live in such a manner as to have no intercourse with objects
which are outside us. Indeed, so far as the mind is concerned, our intellect would be less
perfect if the mind were alone, and understood nothing but itself. There are many things, therefore,
outside us which are useful to us, and which, therefore, are to be sought. Of all these, none
more excellent can be discovered than those which exactly agree with our nature. If, for example,
two individuals of exactly the same nature are joined together, they make up a single individual,
doubly stronger than each alone. Nothing, therefore, is more useful to man than man. Men can
desire, I say, nothing more excellent for the preservation of their being than that all should
so agree at every point that the minds and bodies of all should form, as it were, one mind
and one body; that all should together endeavor as much as possible to preserve their being,
and that all should together seek the common good of all. From this it follows that men who
are governed by reason--that is to say, men who, under the guidance of reason, seek their own
profit--desire nothing for themselves which they do not desire for other men, and that, therefore,
they are just, faithful, and honorable.

These are those dictates of reason which I purposed briefly to set forth before commencing
their demonstration by a fuller method, in order that, if possible, I might win the attention
of those who believe that this principle--that every one is bound to seek his own profit--is
the foundation of impiety, and not of virtue and piety.

The Essence of Virtue

I

According to the laws of his own nature each person necessarily desires that which he considers
to be good, and avoids that which he considers to be evil.

The more each person strives and is able to seek his own profit, that is to say, to preserve
his being, the more virtue does he possess; on the other hand, in so far as each person neglects
his own profit, that is to say, neglects to preserve his own being, is he impotent.

No one, therefore, unless defeated by external causes and those which are contrary to his nature,
neglects to seek his own profit or preserve his being. No one, I say, refuses food or kills
himself from a necessity of his nature, but only when forced by external causes. The compulsion
may be exercised in many ways. A man kills himself under compulsion by another when that other
turns the right hand, with which the man had by chance laid hold of a sword, and compels him
to direct the sword against his own heart; or the command of a tyrant may compel a man, as
it did Seneca, to open his own veins, that is to say, he may desire to avoid a greater evil
by a less. External and hidden causes also may so dispose his imagination and may so affect
his body as to cause it to put on another nature contrary to that which it had at first, and
one whose idea cannot exist in the mind; but a very little reflection will show that it is
as impossible that a man, from the necessity of his nature, should endeavor not to exist, or
to be changed into some other form, as it is that something should be begotten from nothing.

The endeavor after self-preservation is the essence itself of a thing. If, therefore, any virtue
could be conceived prior to this of self-preservation, the essence itself of the thing would
be conceived as prior to itself, which (as is self-evident) is absurd.

The endeavor after self-preservation is the primary and only foundation of virtue. For prior
to this principle no other can be conceived, and without it no virtue can be conceived.

No one endeavors to preserve his own being for the sake of another object. For if a man endeavored
to preserve his being for the sake of any other object, this object would then become the primary
foundation of virtue (as is self-evident), which is an absurdity.

No one can desire to be happy, to act well and live well, who does not at the same time desire
to be, to act, and to live, that is to say, actually to exist.

II

To act absolutely in conformity with virtue is nothing but acting according to the laws of
our own proper nature. But only in so far as we understand do we act. Therefore, to act in
conformity with virtue is nothing but acting, living, and preserving our being as reason directs,
and doing so from the ground of seeking our own profit.[30]

In so far as a man is determined to action because he has inadequate ideas he suffers, that
is to say, he does something which through his essence alone cannot be perceived, that is to
say, which does not follow from his virtue. But in so far as he is determined to any action
because he understands, he acts, that is to say he does something which is perceived through
his essence alone, or which adequately follows from his virtue.

The Highest Virtue of Reason

All efforts which we make through reason are nothing but efforts to understand, and the mind,
in so far as it uses reason, adjudges nothing as profitable to itself excepting that which
conduces to understanding.

The mind, in so far as it reasons, desires nothing but to understand, nor does it adjudge anything
to be profitable to itself excepting what conduces to understanding. But the mind possesses
no certitude, unless in so far as it possesses adequate ideas, or in so far as it reasons.
We do not know, therefore, that anything is certainly good, excepting that which actually conduces
to understanding, and, on the other hand, we do not know that anything is evil excepting that
which can hinder us from understanding.

The highest thing which the mind can understand is God, that is to say, Being absolutely infinite,
and without whom nothing can be nor can be conceived, and therefore that which is chiefly profitable
to the mind, or which is the highest good of the mind, is the knowledge of God. Again, the
mind acts only in so far as it understands and only in so far can it be absolutely said to
act in conformity with virtue. To understand, therefore, is the absolute virtue of the mind.
But the highest thing which the mind can understand is God (as we have already demonstrated),
and therefore the highest virtue of the mind is to understand or know God.

THE MORAL VALUE OF THE EMOTIONS

I

General Principles

That which so disposes the human body that it can be affected in many ways, or which renders
it capable of affecting external bodies in many ways, is profitable to man, and is more profitable
in proportion as by its means the body becomes better fitted to be affected in many ways, and
to affect other bodies; on the other hand, that thing is injurious which renders the body less
fitted to affect or be affected.

Whatever is effective to preserve the proportion of motion and rest which the parts of the
human body bear to each other is good, and, on the contrary, that is evil which causes the
parts of the human body to have a different proportion of motion and rest to each other.

In what degree these things may injure or profit the mind will be explained below. Here I observe
merely that I understand the body to die when its parts are so disposed as to acquire a different
proportion of motion and rest to each other. For I dare not deny that the human body, though
the circulation of the blood and the other things by means of which it is thought to live be
preserved, may, nevertheless, be changed into another nature altogether different from its
own. No reason compels me to affirm that the body never dies unless it is changed into a corpse.
Experience, indeed, seems to teach the contrary. It happens sometimes that a man undergoes
such changes that he cannot very well be said to be the same man, as was the case with a certain
Spanish poet of whom I have heard, who was seized with an illness, and although he recovered,
remained, nevertheless, so oblivious of his past life that he did not believe the tales and
tragedies he had composed were his own, and he might, indeed, have been taken for a grown-up
child if he had also forgotten his native tongue. But if this seems incredible, what shall
we say of children? The man of mature years believes the nature of children to be so different
from his own, that it would be impossible to persuade him he had ever been a child, if he did
not conjecture regarding himself from what he sees of others. But in order to avoid giving
to the superstitious matter for new questions, I prefer to go no farther in the discussion
of these matters.

II

Value of Joy and Sorrow

Joy is an emotion by which the body's power of action is increased or assisted. Sorrow, on
the other hand, is an emotion by which the body's power of action is lessened or restrained,
and therefore joy is not directly evil, but good; sorrow, on the other hand, is directly evil.

III

The Good Emotions

Cheerfulness is joy, which, in so far as it is related to the body, consists in this, that
all the parts of the body are equally affected, that is to say, the body's power of action
is increased or assisted, so that all the parts acquire the same proportion of motion and rest
to each other. Cheerfulness, therefore, is always good, and can never be excessive. But melancholy
is sorrow, which, in so far as it is related to the body consists in this, that the body's
power of action is absolutely lessened or restrained, and melancholy, therefore, is always evil.

Pleasurable excitement is joy, which, in so far as it is related to the body, consists in this,
that one or some of the parts of the body are affected more than others. The power of this
emotion may, therefore, be so great as to overcome the other actions of the body. It may cling
obstinately to the body; it may impede the body in such a manner as to render it less capable
of being affected in many ways, and therefore may be evil. Again, pain, which, on the contrary,
is sorrow, considered in itself alone cannot be good. But because its power and increase is
limited by the power of an external cause compared with our own power, we can therefore conceive
infinite degrees of strength of this emotion, and infinite kinds of it, and we can therefore
conceive it to be such that it can restrain an excess of pleasurable excitement, and so far
(by the first part of this proposition) preventing the body from becoming less capable. So
far, therefore, will pain be good.

Love is joy with the accompanying idea of an external cause. Pleasurable excitement, therefore
with the accompanying idea of an external cause, is love, and therefore love may be excessive.
Again, desire is greater as the emotion from which it springs is greater. Inasmuch, therefore,
as an emotion may overpower the other actions of a man, so also the desire which springs from
this emotion may also overpower the other desires, and may therefore exist in the same excess
which we have shown (in the preceding proposition) that pleasurable excitement possesses.

Cheerfulness, which I have affirmed to be good, is more easily imagined than observed; for
the emotions by which we are daily agitated are generally related to some part of the body
which is affected more than the others, and therefore it is that the emotions exist for the
most part in excess, and so hold the mind down to the contemplation of one object alone, that
it can think about nothing else; and although men are subject to a number of emotions, and
therefore few are found who are always under the control of one and the same emotion, there
are not wanting those to whom one and the same emotion obstinately clings. We see men sometimes
so affected by one object, that although it is not present, they believe it to be before them;
and if this happens to a man who is not asleep, we say that he is delirious or mad. Nor are
those believed to be less mad who are inflamed by love, dreaming about nothing but a mistress
or harlot day and night, for they excite our laughter. But the avaricious man who thinks of
nothing else but gain or money, and the ambitious man who thinks of nothing but glory, inasmuch
as they do harm, and are, therefore, thought worthy of hatred, are not believed to be mad.
In truth, however, avarice, lust, etc., are a kind of madness, although they are not reckoned
amongst diseases.

IV

The Evil Emotions

The man whom we hate we endeavor to destroy, that is to say we endeavor to do something which
is evil. Therefore hatred can never be good.[31]

Envy, mockery, contempt, anger, revenge, and the other affects which are related to hatred
or arise from it, are evil.

Everything which we desire because we are affected by hatred is base and unjust in the State.

I make a great distinction between mockery (which I have said is bad) and laughter; for laughter
and merriment are nothing but joy, and therefore, provided they are not excessive, are in themselves
good. Nothing but a gloomy and sad superstition forbids enjoyment. For why is it more seemly
to extinguish hunger and thirst than to drive away melancholy? My reasons and my conclusions
are these: No God and no human being, except an envious one, is delighted by my impotence or
my trouble, or esteems as any virtue in us tears, sighs, fears, and other things of this kind,
which are signs of mental impotence; on the contrary, the greater the joy with which we are
affected, the greater the perfection to which we pass thereby, that is to say, the more do
we necessarily partake of the divine nature. To make use of things, therefore, and to delight
in them as much as possible (provided we do not disgust ourselves with them, which is not delighting
in them), is the part of a wise man. It is the part of a wise man, I say, to refresh and invigorate
himself with moderate and pleasant eating and drinking, with sweet scents and the beauty of
green plants, with ornament, with music, with sports, with the theater, and with all things
of this kind which one man can enjoy without hurting another. For the human body is composed
of a great number of parts of diverse nature, which constantly need new and varied nourishment,
in order that the whole of the body may be equally fit for everything which can follow from
its nature, and consequently that the mind may be equally fit to understand many things at
once. This mode of living best of all agrees both with our principles and with common practice;
therefore this mode of living is the best of all, and is to be universally commended. There
is no need, therefore, to enter more at length into the subject.

All emotions of hatred are evil and therefore the man who lives according to the guidance of
reason will strive as much as possible to keep himself from being agitated by the emotions
of hatred and, consequently, will strive to keep others from being subject to the same emotions.
But hatred is increased by reciprocal hatred, and, on the other hand, can be extinguished by
love, so that hatred passes into love. Therefore he who lives according to the guidance of
reason will strive to repay the hatred of another, etc., with love, that is to say, with generosity.
He who wishes to avenge injuries by hating in return does indeed live miserably. But he who,
on the contrary, strives to drive out hatred by love, fights joyfully and confidently, with
equal ease resisting one man or a number of men, and needing scarcely any assistance from fortune.
Those whom he conquers yield gladly, not from defect of strength, but from an increase of it.
These truths, however, all follow so plainly from the definitions alone of love and the intellect,
that there is no need to demonstrate them singly.

V

Necessary Evils

(i)

The emotions of hope and fear cannot exist without sorrow; for fear is sorrow, and hope cannot
exist without fear. Therefore these emotions cannot be good of themselves, but only in so far
as they are able to restrain the excesses of joy.

We may here add that these emotions indicate want of knowledge and impotence of mind, and,
for the same reason, confidence, despair, gladness, and remorse are signs of weakness of mind.
For although confidence and gladness are emotions of joy, they nevertheless suppose that sorrow
has preceded them, namely, hope or fear. In proportion, therefore, as we endeavor to live according
to the guidance of reason, shall we strive as much as possible to depend less on hope, to liberate
ourselves from fear, to rule fortune, and to direct our actions by the sure counsels of reason.

Humility is sorrow, which springs from this, that a man contemplates his own weakness. But
in so far as a man knows himself by true reason is he supposed to understand his essence, that
is to say, his power. If, therefore, while contemplating himself, he perceives any impotence
of his, this is not due to his understanding himself, but, as we have shown, to the fact that
his power of actions is restrained. But if we suppose that he forms a conception of his own
impotence because he understands something to be more powerful than himself, by the knowledge
of which he limits his own power of action, in this case we simply conceive that he understands
himself distinctly, and his power of action is increased. Humility or sorrow, therefore, which
arises because a man contemplates his own impotence, does not spring from true contemplation
or reason, and is not a virtue, but a passion.

Repentance is not a virtue, that is to say, it does not spring from reason; on the contrary,
the man who repents of what he has done is doubly wretched or impotent. For, in the first place,
we allow ourselves to be overcome by a depraved desire, and, in the second place, by sorrow.

Inasmuch as men seldom live as reason dictates, therefore these two emotions, humility and
repentance, together with hope and fear, are productive of more profit than disadvantage, and
therefore, since men must sin, it is better that they should sin in this way. For if men impotent
in mind were all equally proud, were ashamed of nothing, and feared nothing, by what bonds
could they be united or constrained? The multitude becomes a thing to be feared if it has nothing
to fear. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that the prophets, thinking rather of the
good of the community than of a few, should have commended so greatly humility, repentance
and reverence. Indeed, those who are subject to these emotions can be led much more easily
than others, so that, at last, they come to live according to the guidance of reason, that
is to say, become free men, and enjoy the life of the blessed.

(ii)

Pity is sorrow, and therefore is in itself evil. The good, however, which issues from pity,
namely, that we endeavor to free from misery the man we pity, we desire to do from the dictate
of reason alone; nor can we do anything except by the dictate of reason alone, which we are
sure is good. Pity, therefore, in a man who lives according to the guidance of reason is in
itself bad and unprofitable.

Hence it follows that a man who lives according to the dictates of reason endeavors as much
as possible to prevent himself from being touched by pity.

The man who has properly understood that everything follows from the necessity of the divine
nature, and comes to pass according to the eternal laws and rules of Nature, will in truth
discover nothing which is worthy of hatred, laughter, or contempt, nor will he pity any one,
but, so far as human virtue is able, he will endeavor to do well, as we say, and to rejoice.
We must add also, that a man who is easily touched by the emotion of pity, and is moved by
the misery or tears of another, often does something of which he afterward repents, both because
from an emotion we do nothing which we certainly know to be good, and also because we are so
easily deceived by false tears. But this I say expressly of the man who lives according to
the guidance of reason. For he who is moved neither by reason nor pity to be of any service
to others is properly called inhuman; for he seems to be unlike a man.

VI

Diseased Emotions

The primary foundation of virtue is the preservation of our being according to the guidance
of reason. The man, therefore, who is ignorant of himself is ignorant of the foundation of
all the virtues, and consequently is ignorant of all the virtues. Again, to act in conformity
with virtue is nothing but acting according to the guidance of reason, and he who acts according
to the guidance of reason must necessarily know that he acts according to the guidance of reason.
He, therefore, who is ignorant of himself, and consequently (as we have just shown) altogether
ignorant of all the virtues, cannot in any way act in conformity with virtue, that is to say,
is altogether impotent in mind. Therefore the greatest pride or despondency indicates the greatest
impotence of mind.

Hence follows, with the utmost clearness, that the proud and the desponding are above all others
subject to emotions.

Despondency, nevertheless, can be corrected more easily than pride, since the former is an
emotion of sorrow, while the latter is an emotion of joy, and is therefore stronger than the
former.

Pride is joy arising from a man's having too high an opinion of himself. This opinion a proud
man will endeavor, as much as he can, to cherish, and therefore, will love the presence of
parasites or flatterers (the definitions of these people are omitted, because they are too
well known), and will shun that of the noble-minded who think of him as is right.

It would take too much time to enumerate here all the evils of pride, for the proud are subject
to all emotions, but to none are they less subject than to those of love and pity. It is necessary,
however, to observe here that a man is also called proud if he thinks too little of other people,
and so, in this sense, pride is to be defined as joy which arises from the false opinion that
we are superior to other people, while despondency, the contrary to this pride, would be defined
as sorrow arising from the false opinion that we are inferior to other people. This being understood,
it is easy to see that the proud man is necessarily envious, and that he hates those above
all others who are the most praised on account of their virtues. It follows, too, that his
hatred of them is not easily overcome by love or kindness and that he is delighted by the presence
of those only who humor his weakness, and from a fool make him a madman.

Although despondency is contrary to pride, the despondent man is closely akin to the proud
man. For since the sorrow of the despondent man arises from his judging his own impotence by
the power of virtue of others, his sorrow will be mitigated, that is to say, he will rejoice,
if his imagination be occupied in contemplating the vices of others. Hence the proverb-- It
is a consolation to the wretched to have bad companions in their misfortunes. On the other
hand, the more the despondent man believes himself to be below other people, the more will
he sorrow; and this is the reason why none are more prone to envy than the despondent; and
why they, above all others, try to observe men's actions with a view to finding fault with
them rather than correcting them, so that at last they praise nothing but despondency and glory
in it; but in such a manner, however, as always to seem despondent.

These things follow from this emotion as necessarily as it follows from the nature of a triangle
that its three angles are equal to two right angles. It is true, indeed, that I have said that
I call these and the like emotions evil, in so far as I attend to human profit alone; but the
laws of Nature have regard to the common order of Nature of which man is a part--a remark I
desired to make in passing, lest it should be thought that I talk about the vices and absurdities
of men rather than attempt to demonstrate the nature and properties of things. As I said, I
consider human emotions and their properties precisely as I consider other natural objects;
and, indeed, the emotions of man, if they do not show his power, show at least the power and
workmanship of Nature, no less than many other things which we admire and delight to contemplate.

VII

Reasonable Emotions

If we live according to the guidance of reason, we shall desire for others the good which we
seek for ourselves. Therefore if we see one person do good to another, our endeavor to do good
is assisted, that is to say, we shall rejoice, and our joy (by hypothesis) will be accompanied
with the idea of the person who does good to the other, that is to say, we shall favor him.
Favor is not opposed to reason, but agrees with it, and may arise from it.

Indignation, as it is defined by us, is necessarily evil; but it is to be observed that when
the supreme authority, constrained by the desire of preserving peace, punishes a citizen who
injures another, I do not say that it is indignant with the citizen, since it is not excited
by hatred to destroy him, but punishes him from motives of piety.

Self-satisfaction is the joy which arises from a man's contemplating himself and his power
of action. But man's true power of action or his virtue is reason itself, which he contemplates
clearly and distinctly. Self-satisfaction therefore arises from reason. Again, man, when he
contemplates himself, perceives nothing clearly and distinctly or adequately, excepting those
things which follow from his power of action, that is to say, those things which follow from
his power of understanding; and therefore from this contemplation alone the highest satisfaction
which can exist arises.

Self-satisfaction is indeed the highest thing for which we can hope, for (as we have shown),
no one endeavors to preserve his being for the sake of any end. Again, because this self-satisfaction
is more and more nourished and strengthened by praise, and, on the contrary more and more disturbed
by blame, therefore we are principally led by glory, and can scarcely endure life with disgrace.

Self-exaltation is not opposed to reason, but may spring from it.

What is called vainglory is self-satisfaction, nourished by nothing but the good opinion of
the multitude, so that when that is withdrawn, the satisfaction, that is to say, the chief
good which every one loves, ceases. For this reason those who glory in the good opinion of
the multitude anxiously and with daily care strive, labor, and struggle to preserve their fame.
For the multitude is changeable and fickle, so that fame, if it be not preserved, soon passes
away. As every one, moreover, is desirous to catch the praises of the people, one person will
readily destroy the fame of another; and consequently, as the object of contention is what
is commonly thought to be the highest good, a great desire arises on the part of every one
to keep down his fellows by every possible means, and he who at last comes off conqueror boasts
more because he has injured another person than because he has profited himself. This glory
of self-satisfaction, therefore, is indeed vain, for it is really no glory.

What is worthy of notice with regard to shame may easily be gathered from what has been said
about compassion and repentance. I will only add that pity, like shame, although it is not
a virtue, is nevertheless good, in so far as it shows that a desire of living uprightly is
present in the man who is possessed with shame, just as pain is called good in so far as it
shows that the injured part has not yet putrefied. A man, therefore, who is ashamed of what
he has done, although he is sorrowful, is nevertheless more perfect that the shameless man
who has no desire of living uprightly.

These are the things which I undertook to establish with regard to the emotions of joy and
sorrow. With reference to the desires, these are good or evil as they spring from good or evil
emotions. All of them, however, in so far as they are begotten in us of emotions which are
passions, are blind, as may easily be inferred from what has been said, nor would they be of
any use if men could be easily persuaded to live according to the dictates of reason alone.

The Life of Virtue

I

