A servant cannot be too carefully taught her duty to visitors. Having first ascertained whether
her mistress is at home or not, in order to save a lady the trouble of alighting from her carriage,
she should answer the ring of the door-bell without loss of time. She should treat all callers
with respect and civility, but at the same time she should be able to discriminate between
friend and foe, and not unwarily admit those innumerable cheats, frauds, and beggars who, in
a respectable garb, force an entrance to one's house for the purpose of theft, or perhaps to
sell a cement for broken crockery, or the last thing in hair-dye.

Conscientious servants who comprehend their duties, and who try to perform them, should, after
a certain course of discipline, be allowed to follow their own methods of working. Interference
and fault-finding injure the temper of an inferior; while suspicion is bad for anybody, and
especially operates against the making of a good servant.

To assure your servants that you believe them to be honest is to fix in them the habit of honesty.
To respect their rights, their hours of recreation, their religion, their feelings, to wish
them good- night and good-morning (after the pretty German fashion), to assist them in the
writing of their letters and in the proper investment of their earnings, to teach them to read
and write and to make their clothes, so that they may be useful to themselves when they leave
servitude--all this is the pleasurable duty of a good mistress, and such a course makes good
servants.

All ignorant natures seek a leader; all servants like to be commanded by a strong, honest,
fair, judicious mistress. They seek her praise; they fear her censure, not as slaves dread
the whip of the tyrant, but as soldiers respect their superior officer. Bad temper, injustice,
and tyranny make eye-service, but not heart- service.

Irresolute persons who do not know their own minds, and cannot remember their own orders, make
very poor masters and mistresses. It is better that they should give up the business of house-keeping,
and betake themselves to the living in hotels or boarding-houses with which our English cousins
taunt us, little knowing that the nomadic life they condemn is the outcome of their own failure
to make good citizens of those offscourings of jail and poorhouse and Irish shanty which they
send to us under the guise of domestic servants.

Familiarity with servants always arouses their contempt; a mistress can be kind without being
familiar. She must remember that the servant looks up to her over the great gulf of a different
condition of life and habit--over the great gulf of ignorance, and that, in the order of nature,
she should respect not only the person in authority, but the being, as superior to herself.
This salutary influence is thrown away if the mistress descend to familiarity and intimacy.
Certain weak mistresses vary their attitude towards their servants, first assuming a familiarity
of manner which is disgusting, and which the servant does not mistake for kindness, and then
a tyrannical severity which is as unreasonable as the familiarity, and, like it, is only a
spasm of an ill-regulated mind.

Servants should wear thin shoes in the house, and be told to step lightly, not to slam doors,
or drop china, or to rattle forks and spoons. A quiet servant is the most certain of domestic
blessings. Neatness, good manners, and faithfulness have often insured a stupid servant of
no great efficiency a permanent home with a family. If to these qualities be added a clear
head, an active body, and a respectful manner, we have that rare article--a perfect servant.

CHAPTER XLVI. THE HOUSE WITH ONE SERVANT.

