  [15] It is interesting to note that the recent introduction among us
  of the Turkish bath was due to Lord Dundonald. "Having recovered,"
  says Dr. Gosse, in his treatise "Du Bain Turc," p. 58, "from two
  attacks of intermitting fever, I visited the islands of the
  Archipelago until summoned to Nauplia by Admiral Cochrane, who was
  then on board the little steam-vessel Mercury. There the air of the
  gulf, and the marshy miasma, brought on another attack of fever, from
  which I feared a fatal issue. Lord Cochrane had the kindness to take
  me in his arms, and to place me in the current of steam, which caused
  me to perspire freely. My illness disappeared as by enchantment." A
  similar service was rendered by Lord Dundonald to Mr. David Urquhart,
  whose attention was thus called to the advantages of the Turkish bath,
  and who became its great advocate.

To the wonderful invention known as his "secret war-plan" allusion will presently be made.
His other most important mechanical pursuits had for their principal object the improvement
of steam-engines and other appliances for steam-shipping. Almost his first reminiscence was
of a visit in which, when he was seven or eight years old, he accompanied his father to Birmingham,
there to meet with James Watt, and hear something of his memorable discovery. Apprehending
in his youth the value of that discovery, he never wearied in his efforts to extend its usefulness.
The Rising Star, built in 1818 under his directions, and those of his brother, Major Cochrane,
for service in Chili, was the first steam-vessel that crossed the Atlantic, and it was an additional
disappointment to him, amid all the misfortunes incident to his efforts to give adequate assistance
to the Greeks in their war of independence, that the ill-fated steamers which were to be his
chief instruments therein, failed through the indolence and incompetence of those to whom their
construction was assigned.

It is not necessary here to detail the studies and experiments by which he afterwards sought
to introduce a better steam-engine, for locomotive purposes, than was then, or is even now,
in general use. His plan--not a new one, though it had never before been made available in
practice--was to substitute for the ordinary reciprocating engine a machine which should at
once produce a circular motion. "Of the many rotary engines heretofore offered to the notice
of the world," he wrote, in 1833, "none have stood the test of practical use and experience.
The cause of this uniform failure has been the great difficulty of obtaining, within the machine,
a base of resistance on which the steam might act in propelling the moveable piston." He did
not quite overcome this difficulty, but he succeeded in producing what the foremost critic
in this department of manufacture describes--after a lapse of thirty years unrivalled for their
development of ingenuity--as "the most perfect engine of the class that has yet been projected."

"In this engine," says the same authority, "an eccentric is made to revolve on an axis in the
manner of a piston, and two doors, forming part of the side of the cylinder, press upon the
eccentric. The points of these doors are armed with swivelling brasses, which apply themselves
to the eccentric and make the point of contact tight in all positions."[16]

  [16] John Bourne. "A Treatise on the Steam-Engine" (1861), p. 392.

"This revolving engine," said Lord Dundonald, "does not require any valve or slide; consequently,
there is no waste of steam thereby; neither is there any loss, as in the space left at the
top and bottom of the cylinders of reciprocating engines. There is much less friction than
arises from the sum of all the bearings required to convert the rectilineal force of the common
engine to circular motion. There are no beams, cranks, side-rods, connecting-rods, parallel
motions, levers, slide-valves, or eccentrics, with their nicely-adjusted joints and bearings;
and thus the revolving engine is not liable, even in one-tenth degree, to the accidents and
hindrances of other engines. As its moving parts pursue their course in perfect circles, without
stop or hindrance, it is capable of progressive acceleration, until the work performed equals
the pressure of steam on the vacuum--an advantage which the reciprocating engine does not possess.
The diminished bulk and weight, and the absence of tremor, add to the capacity, buoyancy, velocity,
and durability of vessels in which it is placed." The rotary engine did not satisfy all Lord
Dundonald's expectations, but it took precedence of all others of the same sort, and was of
great service at any rate in directing attention to what he rightly considered to be the great
want in war-shipping, namely, vessels of the least possible bulk and of the greatest possible
strength, speed, and fighting power.

Years were spent by him in attempting to bring it into notice. At his own cost he fitted out
a little steamboat, which navigated the Thames; but to perfect the invention were required
more funds than he had at his command, and he sought in vain for adequate assistance from others.

In January, 1834, he wrote to Sir James Graham, then First Lord of the Admiralty, thanking
him for his share in the restitution of his naval rank that had occurred nearly two years before,
and urging the co-operation of the Government in perfecting an invention that promised to be
of so much importance to the naval power of England. "You are not obliged to me for anything,"
answered Sir James on the 15th; "I only am fortunate in being the member of a Government which
has regained for our country the benefit of your distinguished valour and services, which,
if again required in war, will, I am persuaded, be so exerted as to win the gratitude of the
nation, and to demonstrate the justice of the decision to which you allude. It is impossible
to over-estimate the paramount importance of steam in future naval operations; and it is fortunate
that you have directed so much of your attention to the subject. The Board has complied with
your request, and two engineers, in whom we place reliance, will be ordered to attend you."
It does not appear, how-ever, that the engineers did attend. At any rate, nothing was done
by the Admiralty in aid of the invention either then or for many years after.

Yet its ingenuity was acknowledged by all who investigated it, and by naval authorities among
the number. The Earl of Minto, when First Lord of the Admiralty, sought to introduce it into
the national ship-building; but official hindrances, too great even for him to overcome, stood
in his way. All he could do was to have it referred to competent judges and to receive their
report in its favour. "I am commanded to acquaint your lordship," wrote Sir John Barrow, the
Secretary to the Admiralty, to the Earl of Dundonald, on the 20th of December, 1839, "that
the opinions received of your revolving engine are favourable to the principle, and that it
has not been stated that there are any insurmountable obstacles to its practical execution."
The insurmountable obstacles were in the stolid resistance of subordinates to any novelty designed
to lessen labour and promote economy.

