

Gourders of Rain (No. 21. p. 335., No. 22. p. 357.).--Has the word "Gourders" any connection
with Gourtes, a stream, or pool? See Cotgrave's Dict., and Kelham's Dict. of the Norman Language.

Geotere is the A.-S. word for "melter;" but may not the term be applied to the pourer out of
anything? Gourd is used by Chaucer in the sense of a vessel. (See Prol. to the Manciple's Tale.)

C.I.R.

Urbanus Regius (No. 23. p. 367.).--The "delightful old lady" is informed that "Urbanus Regius"
(or Urban le Roi) was one of the reformers, a native of Langenargen, in Germany. His works
were published under the title of Vitet et Opera Urbani Regii, &c., Norib. 1562. His theological
works have been translated into English, as the lady is aware.

W. FRANKS MATHEWS. Kidderminster, April 7. 1850.

Horns (No. 24. p. 383.).--Rosenmüller ad Exodum xxxiv. 29.

    "Ignorabat quods plenderet entis faciei ejus. Vulgatus
    interpres reddidit. Ignorabat quod cornuta esset facies sua,
    quia verbum Karan denominativum nominis Keren, cornu;
    opinatus est denotare, cornua habere; hine nata opinio, Mosis
    faciem fuisse cornutam. Sed nomen [Hebrew: keren] ob
    similitudinem et ad radios transferri, docet Haliæ, m. 4. ubi
    de fulminibus dicitur.... Hic denotat emisit radias, i.e.
    splenduit." LXX. [Greek: dedoxastai]. Our version, shone.

R. ad Psal. xxii. seems to say, that in Arabic there is the like metaphor, of the sun's rays
to a deer's horns. R. adds, that the Jews also attributed horns to Moses in another sense,
figuratively for power, as elsewhere.

Tauriformis.--The old scholiasts on Horace say that rivers are always represented with horns,
"propter impetum et mugitum æquarum."

  "Corniger Hesperidum fluvius."

An old modern commentator observes, that in Virgil "Rhenus bicornis," rather applies to its
two æstuaries.

When Milton says (xi. 831.) "push'd by the horned flood," he seems rather to mean, as Newton
explains him, that "rivers, when they meet with anything to obstruct their passage, divide
themselves and become horned as it were, and hence the ancients have compared them to bulls."

C.B.

    ["M." (Oxford) refers our correspondent to Facciolati,
    Lexicon, ed. Bailey, voc. Corun.]

Horns (No. 24. p. 383.).--1. Moses' face, Ex. ch. xxxiv. (karan, Heb.), shot out beams or horns
of light (from keren, Heb.); so the first beams of the rising sun are by the Arabian poets
compared to horns. Absurdly rendered by Aqu. and Vulg. (facies) cornuta erat. Whence painters
represent Moses as having horns.--Gesenius, Heb. Lex. {420}

2. There appear many reasons for likening rivers to bulls. Euripides calls Cephisus taumomorphos,
and Horace gives Aufidus the same epithet, for the same reason probably, as makes him call
it also "longe sonans," "violentus," and "acer;" viz., the bull-like roaring of its waters,
and the blind fury of its course, especially in flood time. Other interpretations may be given:
thus, Milton, Dryden, and others, speak of the "horned flood," i.e., a body of water which,
when it meets with any obstruction, divides itself and becomes horned, as it were. See Milt.
P.L. xi. 831., and notes on the passage by Newton and Todd. Dryden speaks of "the seven-fold
horns of the Nile," using the word as equivalent to winding stream. It would be tedious to
multiply examples.

3. Of this phrase I have never seen a satisfactory explanation. "Coruna nasci" is said by Petronius,
in a general sense, of one in great distress. As applied to a cuckold, it is common to most
of the modern European languages. The Italian phrase is "becco cornuto" (horned goat), which
the Accademici della Crusca explain by averring that that animal, unlike others can without
anger bear a rival in his female's love.

"Dr. Burn, in his History of Westmoreland, would trace this crest of cuckoldom to horns worn
as crests by those who went to the Crusades, as their armorial distinctions; to the infidelity
of consorts during their absence, and to the finger of scorn pointed at them on their return;
crested indeed, but abused."--Todd's Johnson's Dictionary.

R.T.H.G.

Why Moses represented with Horns.--You may inform your querist "L.C." (No. 24 p. 383.), that
the strange practice of making Moses appear horned, which is not confined to statues, arose
from the mistranslation of Exod. xxxiv. 30. & 35. in the Vulgate, which is to the Romanist
his authenticated scripture. For there he reads "faciem Moysi cornutum," instead of "the skin
of Moses' face shone." The Hebrew verb put into our type is coran, very possibly the root of
the Latin cornu: and its primary signification is to put forth horns; its secondary, to shoot
forth rays, to shine. The participle is used in its primary sense in Psalms, xix. 31.; but
the Greek Septuagint, and all translators from the Hebrew into modern European languages, have
assigned to the verb its secondary meaning in Exod. xxxiv. In that chapter the nominative to
coran is, in both verses, undeniably skin, not head nor face. Now it would obviously be absurd
to write "his skin was horned," so that common sense, and the authority of the Septuagint,
supported by the language of St. Paul in his paraphrase and comment on this passage in 2 Cor.
iii. 7-13., ought to have been sufficient to guide any Christian translator as to the sense
to be attached to coran in the mention of Moses.

H.W. Oxford, April 16, 1850.

    [We have since received replies to a similar effect, from "SIR
    EDMUND FILMER," "J.E.," &c. "R.G." refers our Querist to Leigh's
    Critica Særa, part I. p. 219. London, 1662; and "M." refers
    him to the note on this passage in Exodus in M. Polus' Synopsis
    Criticorum. To "T.E." we are indebted for Notes on other
    portions of "L.C.'s" Queries.]

The Temple or A Temple.--"Mr. Foss" says (No. 21. p. 335.) that in Tyrwhitt's edition of Chaucer
and in all other copies he has seen, the reading is--

  "A gentil manciple was there of a temple."

In an imperfect black-letter folio copy of Chaucer in my possession (with curious wood-cuts,
but without title-page, or any indications of its date, printer, &c.), the reading is--

  "A gentyl mancyple was there of the temple."

That the above is the true reading ("the real passage"), and that it is to be applied to the
temple, appears to me from what follows, in the description of the manciple.

  "Of maysters had he moo than thryes ten
  That were of lawe expirte and curyous,
  Of whyche there were a dosen in that hous
  Worthy to be," &c.;

P.H.F. March 23, 1850.

Ecclesiastical Year (No. 24. p. 381.).--The following note on the calendar is authority for
the statement respecting the beginning of the ecclesiastical year:--

    "Note that the Golden Number and the Dominicall letter doeth
    change euery yeere the first day of January. Note also, that the
    yeere of our Lord beginneth the xxv. day of March, the same
    supposed to be the first day upon which the world was created,
    and the day when Christ was conceived in the womb of the Virgin
    Mary."

As in the Book of Common Prayer, Lond. 1614, p. 2. Bishop Cosins remarks, "beginneth the 25th
day of March."

    "Romani annum suum auspicantur ad calendas Januarias. Idem
    faciunt hodierni Romani et qui in aliis regnis papæ authoritatem
    agnoseunt. Ecclesia autem Anglicana sequitur suppotationem
    antiquam a Dionysio Exiguo inchoatum, anno Christi 532."

Nicholl's Commentary on the Book of Common Prayer, additional notes, p. 10. Fol. Lond. 1712,
vid. loe.

In the Book of Common Prayer, Oxford, 1716, the note is,--

    "Note.--The supputation of the year of our Lord in the Church
    of England beginneth the five-and-twentieth day of March."

This note does not now appear in our Prayer Books, being omitted, I suppose, in consequence
{421} of the adoption of the new style in England in 1752. The daily course of lessons used
to begin, as it does now, with the Book of Genesis and of St. Matthew, in January; the collects,
epistles, and gospels with those for Advent.

M. Oxford.

Paying through the Nose (No. 21. p. 335.).--I have always understood this to be merely a degenerated
pronunciation of the last word. Paying through the noose gives the idea so exactly, that, as
far as the etymology goes, it is explanatory enough. But whether that reading has an historical
origin may be another question. It scarcely seems to need one.

C.W.H.

Quem Deus vult perdere, &c. (No. 22. p. 351.).--The correct reading is, "Quem Jupiter vult
perdere, dementat prius." See Duport's Gnomologia Homerica, p. 282. (Cantab. 1660.) Athenagoras
quotes Greek lines, and renders them in Latin (p. 121. Oxon. 1682):

  "At dæmon homini quum struit aliquid malum,
   Pervertit illi primitus mentem suam."

The word "dementat" is not to be met with, I believe, in the works of any real classical author.
Butler has employed the idea in part 3. canto 2. line 565. of Hudibras:

  "Like men condemned to thunderbolts,
   Who, ere the blow, become mere dolts."

C.I.R.

Shrew (No. 24. p. 381.).--The word, I apprehend, means sharp. The mouse, which is not the field-mouse,
as Halliwell states, but an animal of a different order of quadrupeds, has a very sharp snout.
Shrewd means sharp generally. Its bad sense is only incidental. They seem connected with scratch;
screw; shrags, the end of sticks or furze (Halliwell); to shred (A.-S., screadan, but which
must be a secondary form of the verb). That the shrew-mouse is called in Latin sorex, seems
to be an accidental coincidence. That is said to be derived from [Greek: urax]. The French
have confounded the two, and give the name souris to the common mouse, but not to the shrew-mouse.

I protest, for one, against admitting that Broc is derived from broc, persecution, which of
course is participle from break. We say "to badger" for to annoy, to teaze. I suppose two centuries
hence will think the name of the animal is derived from that verb, and not the verb from it.
It means also, in A.-S., equus vilis, a horse that is worn out or "broken down."

C.B.

Zenobia (No. 24. p. 383.).--Zenobia is said to be "gente Judaea," in Hoffman's Lexicon Universale,
and Facciolati, ed. Bailey, Appendix, voc. Zenobia.

M. Oxford.

Cromwell's Estates (No. 24. p. 389.).--There is Woolaston, in Gloucestershire, four miles from
Chepstow, chiefly belonging now to the Duke of Beaufort.

C.B.

Vox et præterea Nihil (No. 16. p. 247., and No. 24. p. 387.).--This saying is to be found in
Plutarch's Laconic Apophthegms ([Greek: Apophthegmata Lakonika]), Plutarchi Opera Moralia,
ed. Dan. Wyttenbach, vol. i. p. 649.

Philemon Holland has "turned it into English" thus:--

    "Another [Laconian] having plucked all the feathers off from a
    nightingale, and seeing what a little body it had: 'Surely,'
    quoth he, 'thou art all voice, and nothing else.'"--Plutarch's
    Morals, fol. 1603. p. 470.

W.B.R.

Law of Horses.--The following is from Oliphant's Law of Horses, &c., p. 75. Will any of your
readers kindly tell me whether the view is correct?

    "It is said in Southerene v. Howe (2 Rol. Rep. 5.), Si home
    vend chivall que est lame, null action gist peur ceo, mes
    caveat emptor: lou jeo vend chivall que ad null oculus la null
    action gist; autrement lou il ad un conterfeit faux et bright
    eye." "If a man sell a horse which is lame, no action lyes for
    that, but caveat emptor; and when I sell a horse that has no
    eye, there no action lies; otherwise where he has a counterfeit,
    false, and bright eye."

Thus it appears that a distinction is here made between a horse having no eye at all, and having
a counterfeit, false or bright one. And probably by bright eye is meant glass eye, or gutta
serena; and the words "counterfeit" and "false" may be an attempt of the reporter to explain
an expression which he did not understand. Because putting a false eye into a horse is far
in advance of the sharpest practices of the present day, or of any former period.

Note.--Gutta Serena, commonly called glass-eye, is a species of blindness; the pupil is unusually
dilated; it is immovable, bright, and glassy.

G.H. HEWIT OLIPHANT. April 16. 1850.

Christ's Hospital.--In reply to "NEMO" (No. 20. p. 318.), a contemporary of the eminent Blues
there enumerated, informs him, that although he has not a perfect recollection of the ballads
then popular at Christ's Hospital, yet "NEMO" may be pleased to learn, that on making search
at the Society of Antiquaries for Robin Hood Ballads, he found in a folio volume of Broadsides,
&c., one of the much interest and considerable length in relation to that school. The Ballad
must also be rare, as it is not among those in the two large volumes which have been for many
years in the British Museum, nor is it in the three volumes of Roxburgh Ballads recently purchased
for that noble library. {422}

The undersigned believes that the only survivor of the scholars at Christ's Hospital mentioned
by "NEMO," is the Rev. Charles Valentine Le Grice, now residing at Trerieffe, near Penzance.

J.M.G. Worcester, March 22. 1850.

    [We are happy to say that one other, at least, of the Christ
    Hospital worthies enumerated by "NEMO" still survives--Mr. Leigh
    Hunt, whose kindly criticism and real poetic feeling have
    enriched our literature with so many volumes of pleasant
    reading, and won for him the esteem of a large circle of
    admirers.]

Tickhill, God help me! (No. 16. p. 247.).--"H.C. ST. CROIX" informs us that a similar expression
is in use in Lincolnshire. Near to the town of "merry Lincoln" is a large heath celebrated
for its cherries. If a person meets one of the cherry-growers on his way to market, and asks
him where he comes from, the answer will be, if the season is favourable, "From Lincoln Heath,
where should 'un?" but if, on the contrary, there is a scarcity of cherries, the reply will
be, "From Lincoln Heath, God help 'un."

"DISS" informs us, too, that this saying is not confined to Tickhill, Melverly, or Pershore,
but is also current at Letton, on the banks of the Wye, between Hereford and Hay. And "H.C.P."
says the same story is told of the inhabitants of Tadley, in the north of Hampshire, on the
borders of Berkshire.

Robert Long (No. 24. p. 382.).--Rear-Admiral Robert Long died 4th July, 1771, having been superannuated
on the half-pay of rear-admiral some time before his death. His seniority in the navy was dated
from 21st March, 1726, and he was posted in the Shoreham. He never was Sir Robert. An account
of the charity he founded may be seen in the Commissioners' Reports on Charities, vol. iii. iv. vi.

G.

Transposition of Letters (No. 19. p. 298.).--Instances of shortened names of places. Bensington,
Oxfordshire, now called Benson; Stadhampton, Oxfordshire, now called Stadham; and in Suffolk
the following changes have taken place; Thelnetham is called Feltam; Hoxney, Oxen.

C.I.R.

The Complaynt of Scotland.--I believe there has not been discovered recently any fact relative
to the authorship of above-mentioned poem, and that the author is,

  "Sir David Lyndsay of the Mount,
  Lord Lyon King-at-Arms."

W.B.

Note Books (No. 3. p. 43., and No. 7. p. 104.)--I beg to state my own mode, than which I know
of none better. I have several books, viz., for History, Topography, Personal and Family History,
Ecclesiastical Affairs, Heraldry, Adversaria. At the end of each volume is an alphabet, with
six columns, one for each vowel; in one or other of which the word is entered according to
the vowel which first appears in it, with a reference to the page. Thus, bray would come under
B.a; church under C.u.; and so forth.

S.S.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

MSS. of Casaubon.--There is a short statement respecting certain MSS., now existing, of the
great critic Casaubon, in a recent volume of the Parker Society--Whitaker's Disputation on
Holy Scripture, edited and translated by Professor Fitzgerald, Professor of Moral Philosophy,
Dublin, which I conceive is one of those facts which might be of service at some future time
to scholars, from having been recorded in your columns:--

Whitaker having observed--

    "One Herman, a most impudent papist, affirms that the scriptures
    are of no more avail than Aesop's fables, apart from the
    testimony of the church."--(Parker Soc. transl., p. 276.)

Professor Fitzgerald appends the following "note:"--

    "Casaubon, Exercit. Baron. I. xxxiii. had, but doubtfully,
    attributed this to Pighius; but in a MS. note preserved in
    Primate Marsh's library, at St. Sepulchre's, Dublin, he corrects
    himself thus: 'Non est hic, sed quidam Hermannus, ait Wittakerus
    in Præfat. Controvers. I. Quæst. S. p. 314.' If a new edition of
    those Exercitations be ever printed, let not these MSS. of that
    great man, which, with many other valuable records, we owe to
    the diligence of Stillingfleet and the munificence of Marsh, be
    forgotten."

T. Bath

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A VERY TALL BARRISTER NAMED "LONG."

  Longi longorum longissime, Longe, virorum,
  Dic mihi, te quæso, num Breve quicquid habes?

W.(1.)

       *       *       *       *       *

"NEC PLURIBUS IMPAR."

On a very bad book: from the Latin of Melancthon.

  A thousand blots would never cure this stuff;
  One might, I own, if it were large enough.

RUFUS. {423}

  "Garçons et filles, venez toujours;
  La lune fait clarté comme le jour;
  Venez au bruit d'un joyeux éclat;
  Venez de bon coeur, ou ne venez pas."

W.(1.)

St. Antholin's Parish Books.--In common with many of your antiquarian readers, I look forward
with great pleasure to the selection from the entries in the St. Antholin's Parish Books, which
are kindly promised by their present guardian, and, I may add, intelligent expositor, "W.C."

St. Antholin's is, on several accounts, one of the most interesting of our London churches;
it was here, Strype tells us (Annals, I. i. p. 199.), "the new morning prayer," i.e., according
to the new reformed service-book, first began in September, 1559, the bell beginning to ring
at five, when a psalm was sung after the Geneva fashion, all the congregation, men, women,
and boys, singing together. It is much to be regretted that these registers do not extend so
far back as this year, as we might have found in them entries of interest to the Church historian;
but as "W.C." tells us the volumes are kept regularly up to the year 1708, I cannot but hope
he may be able to produce some notices of what Mr. P. Cunningham calls, "the Puritanical fervour"
of this little parish. "St. Antling's bell," and "St. Antling's preachers," were proverbial
for shrillness and prolixity, and the name is a familiar one to the students of our old dramatists.
Let "W.C." bear in mind, that the chaplains of the Commissioners of the Church of Scotland,
with Alexander Henderson at their head, preached here in 1640, commanding crowded audiences,
and that a passage was formed from the house where they lodged into a gallery of this church;
and that the pulpit of St. Antholin's seems, for many years, to have been the focus of schism,
faction, and sedition, and he may be able to bring forward from these happily preserved registers
much interesting and valuable information.

D.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, CATALOGUES, SALES, &C.

No one can have visited Edinburgh, and gazed upon

                            "The height
Where the huge Castle holds its state,"

without having felt a strong desire to learn the history of that venerable pile, and the stirring
tales which its grey walls could tell. What so many must have wished done, has at length been
accomplished by Mr. James Grant, the biographer of Kirkaldy of Grange, the gallant governor
of that castle, who was so treacherously executed by the Regent Morton. His work, just published
under the title of Memorials of the Castle of Edinburgh, contains its varied history, ably
and pleasantly narrated, and intermixed with so much illustrative anecdote as to render it
an indispensable companion to all who may hereafter visit one of the most interesting, as well
as most remarkable monuments of the metropolis of Scotland.

The lovers of fine engravings and exquisite drawings will have a rare opportunity of enriching
their portfolios in the course of the next and following week, as Messrs. Leigh Sotheby and
Co., of Wellington Street, commence on Monday a nine days' sale of a magnificent collection
of engravings, of the highest quality, of the ancient and modern Italian, German, Dutch, Flemish,
French, and English schools, which comprises some superb drawings of the most celebrated masters
of the different schools of Europe.

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

Odd Volumes.

CREVIER--HISTORY OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS, 8vo. London, J. and P. Knapton, 1744, Vols. I. and II.

Plate 2, to the 11th chapter of Vol. III of STUART'S ATHENS. JOURNALS OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS,
from 1660 to 1688.

Arnot's Physics. A copy of this work has been reported to Mr. Bell: will our correspondent
who wishes for it forward his name and address?

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLIC RECORDS

MONUMENTA HISTORICA BRITANNICA.

Just published, folio, 5 guineas half-bound (printed by Her Majesty's command).

MATERIALS for the HISTORY of BRITAIN, from the earliest period. Vol. I, extending to the Norman
Conquest. "Sir Robert Inglis remarked, that this work had been pronounced, by one of our most
competent collegiate authorities, to be the finest work published in Europe."--Proceedings
in Parliament, March 11. 1850.

HENRY BUTTERWORTH, Publisher to the Public Record Department, 7. Fleet Street.

Of whom may be had, 8vo., sewed. A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE of the RECORD PUBLICATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCRIPTURE RULE OF MARRIAGES.

This day is published, in post 8vo., price Twopence; 1s. 6d. per dozen, or 10s. per hundred,

LET US UPHOLD the SCRIPTURE RULE of MARRIAGES: an Earnest Address to Englishmen. By the Rev.
ABNER W. BROWN, M.A. London; SAMPSON LOW, 169. Fleet Street.

GEORGE BELL, 186. From the Originals in the possession of the Rev. Edward Ryder, of Oaksey,
Wilts. Edited by JOHN BRUCE, Esq. Treas. S.A.

II. Chronicon Petroburgense. Nunc primum typis mandatum, curante THOMA STAPLETON.

III. The Chronicle of Queen Jane, and of Two years of Queen Mary, and especially of the Rebellion
of Sir Thomas Wyatt, written by a Resident in the Tower of London. Edited, with illustrative
Documents and Notes, by JOHN GOUGH NICHOLS, Esq. F.S.A.

The Subscription to the Society is 1l. per annum.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 1st of MAY next, 1850, will be published, price 2s. 6d.

PART I. will contain--

Andiron, William III., at Windsor Castle. Candelabrum, Charles I., St. Baron, Ghent. Silver-gilt
Cup, Margaret Beaufort, Christ's College, Cambridge.

To be completed in Ten Parts, price 2s. 6d. each.

Large paper copies, 5s.

Office 198. Strand, London. 1s. cloth.

J.R. SMITH, 4. Old Compton Street, Soho, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE LOVE OF BOOKS IN DARK AGES.

8vo. cloth, 5s.

BIBLIOMANA in the MIDDLE AGES.

BY F. MERRYWEATHER.

"Whoever has the real Mr. Merryweather's spirit will be in love with him before they reach
the end of this volume. The author is full of pleasant enthusiasm, and has given us a volume
of very curious facts."--Eclectic Review.

SIMPKIN and CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

Magnificent Collection of Engravings, the Property of a distinguished Amateur.--Nine Days' Sale.

May be viewed four days prior to the sale. Catalogues are now ready, and will be forwarded
on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

The beautiful Collection of Modern Drawings of a distinguished Amateur. They are the property
of the same distinguished amateur by whom the superb collection of prints advertised above
was formed, and have been selected with the most perfect taste and judgment.

May be viewed four days before the sale, and Catalogues had at the place of sale. 1850.