And yet he was frequently with her. He was with her aunt, rather, and thus she became used
to have him sitting in the room beside her. When in her presence, he would talk of their money-matters,
of the old man and his will, in which, luckily, the name of Sir Henry Harcourt was not mentioned;
and at last they brought themselves to better subjects, higher hopes--hopes that might yet
be high, and solace that was trustworthy, in spite of all that was come and gone.

And she would talk to him of himself; of himself as divided from her in all things, except
in cousinhood. And, at her instigation, he again put himself to work in the dusky purlieus
of Chancery Lane. Mr. Die had now retired, and drank his port and counted his per cents. in
the blessed quiet of his evening days; but a Gamaliel was not wanting, and George sat himself
down once more in the porch. We may be sure that he did not sit altogether in vain.

And then Adela--Mrs. Wilkinson we should now call her--visited the two ladies in their silent
retirement at Hadley. What words were uttered between her and Lady Harcourt were heard by no
other human ear; but they were not uttered without effect. She who had been so stricken could
dare again to walk to church, and bear the eyes of the little world around her. She would again
walk forth and feel the sun, and know that the fields were green, and that the flowers were
sweet, and that praises were to be sung to God.--For His mercy endureth for ever.

It was five years after that night in Eaton Square when George Bertram again asked her--her
who had once been Caroline Waddington--to be his wife. But, sweet ladies, sweetest, fairest
maidens, there were no soft, honey words of love then spoken; no happy, eager vows, which a
novelist may repeat, hoping to move the soft sympathy of your bosoms. It was a cold, sad, dreary
matter that offer of his; her melancholy, silent acquiescence, and that marriage in Hadley
church, at which none were present but Adela and Arthur, and Miss Baker.

It was Adela who arranged it, and the result has shown that she was right. They now live together
very quietly, very soberly, but yet happily. They have not Adela's blessings. No baby lies
in Caroline's arms, no noisy boy climbs on the arm of George Bertram's chair. Their house is
childless, and very, very quiet; but they are not unhappy.

Reader, can you call to mind what was the plan of life which Caroline Waddington had formed
in the boldness of her young heart? Can you remember the aspirations of George Bertram, as
he sat upon the Mount of Olives, watching the stones of the temple over against him?

      *      *      *      *      *      *

   Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

   Volume I, Chapter IV, paragraph 10. The word "guess" might
   confuse the reader in the sentence: My donna primissima will
   be another guess sort of lady altogether. This is an archaic
   use of "guess" as an adjective meaning "kind of" as in the
   following example from Frazer's Magazine, 1834: Every one
   knows what guess-sort of wiseacre France gave birth to with
   that algebraical gentleman.

   Volume III, Chapter XVI, paragraph 3. Trollope was often inconsistent with names of persons
   and places.

   Specific changes in wording of the text are listed below.

      Volume I, Chapter I, paragraph 5. The word "at" was duplicated
      in the original ("at at"). One occurrence was deleted to make
      the sentence read: They can hew wood probably; or, AT any rate,
      draw water.

      Volume I, Chapter IV, paragraph 4.

      Volume I, Chapter VI, paragraph 71.

      Volume I, Chapter XV, paragraph 76. The word "you" was changed
      to "your" in the sentence: There is this against YOUR future
      happiness--

      Volume II, Chapter III, paragraph 38.

      Volume II, Chapter X, paragraph 27. The word "him" was deleted
      from the sentence: I do not think he would have [HIM] come down
      here had he heard it--not yet, at least.

      Volume III, Chapter XVI, paragraph 17. The word "them" was
      deleted from the sentence which in the original was: But he did
      despair--as men do when they have none to whom they can turn
      THEM trustingly in their miseries.