Query I.--Is there any historical record of the first discovery of Mauritius and Bourbon by
the Portuguese? These islands bore the name of Mascarenhas as early as 1598, when they were
so indicated on one of the De Bry's maps. Subsequent compilers state that they were thus named
after their Portuguese discoverer, but I have not succeeded in finding any notice of them in
the histories of Portuguese expeditions to the East Indies which I have consulted. The only
appartently authentic indication of their discovery, that I am aware of, is the pillar bearing
the name of John III. of Portugal, and dated 1545, which is stated by Leguat, on Du Quesne's
authority, to have been found in Bourbon by Flacour, when he took possession of the island in 1653.

Query II.--It appears from Leguat's New Voyage to the East Indies, London, 1708, pp. 2, 37.,
that the Marquis Du Quesne, being desirous of sending out a colony from Holland to the Isle
of Bourbon in 1689 or 1690, published (probably in Dutch) an account of that Island, with a
view of inducing emigrants to go thither. I should be greatly obliged if any of your readers
can tell me the title, date, and place of publication of this book, and where a copy of it
is to be seen or procured.

Query III.--Are there in existence any original oil-paintings of the Dodo by Savery or any
other artist, besides the five described in the Dodo and its Kindred--viz., the one at the
Hague, at Berlin, at Vienna, at the British Museum, and at Oxford? And are there any original
engravings of this bird, besides that in De Bry, in Clusius, in Van den Broecke, in Herbert,
in Bontekoc, and in Bontius, of all which I have published fac-similes?

Query IV.--Are there any original authors who mention the Dodo as a living bird, besides Van
Neck, Clusius, Heemskerk, Willem van West-Zanen, Matelief, Van der Hagen, Verhuffen, Van den
Broecke, Bontekoe, Herbert, Cauche, Lestrange, and Benjamin Harry? Or any authority for the
Solitaire of Rodriguez besides Leguat and D'Heguerty; or for the Dodo-like birds of Bourbon
besides Castelton, Carré Sieur D.B., and Billiard?

Query V--In Rees' Cyclopæia, article BOURBON, we are told that in that island there is "a kind
of large bat, denominated l'Oiseau bleu, which are skinned and eaten as a great delicacy."
Where did the compiler of the article pick up this statement?

Query VI.--Is there in existence any figure, published or unpublished, of the Dodo-like bird
which once inhabited the Isle of Bourbon?

Query VII--What is the derivation or meaning of the words Dodaers and Dronte, as applied to
the Dodo?

Query VIII.--Sir Hamon Lestrange has recorded that about 1638 he saw a living Dodo exhibited
in London. (See Sloane MSS. 1839, v. p. 9. in Brit. Mus.; Wilkin's ed. of Sir T. Browne's Works,
vol. i. p. 369.; vol. ii, p. 173.; The Dodo and its Kindred, p. 22.) Is there any contemporary
notice extant in print or in MS. which confirms this statement? A splendidly bound copy of
The Dodo and its Kindred will be given to any one who can answer this query affirmatively.

Query IX.--In Holme's Academy of Armory and Blazou, Chester, 1688, p. 289, we find a Dodo figured
as an heraldic device, a fac-simile of which is given in the Annals of Natural History, 2nd
series, vol. iii. p. 260. The author thus describes it: "He beareth Sable a Dodo or Dronte
proper. By the name of Dronte. This exotic bird doth equal a swan in bigness," &c. &c. Now
I wish to ask, where did this family of Dronte reside? Is anything known concerning them? How
did they come by these arms? and are any members of the family now living?

Query X.--From a passage in the Histoire de l'Académie Royale des Sciences, 1776, p. 37, it
appears that Pingré the French astronomer, published, or at least wrote, a relation of his
voyage to Rodriguez, in which he speaks of Solitaires. Is this the fact? and if so, what is
the title of his work?

H.E. STRICKLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON PASSAGES IN COLERIDGE'S CHRISTADEL AND BYRON'S LARA. TABLET TO NAPOLEON.

I am one of those who look upon the creations of our great poets as deserving illustration
almost as much as actual history; and I am always distressed when I meet with passages representing
events with respect to which I cannot make up my mind as to what the author meant, or intended
his readers to believe. Two of these occur to me at this moment, and I shall be much obliged
by any of your correspondents giving, in your pages, brief replies to my queries, or referring
me to any published works where I may find their solution.

1. What did Coleridge mean to represent or imply in his tale of Christabel? Who or what was
Geraldine? What did Christabel see in her, at times, so unutterably horrible? What is meant
by "the ladye strange" making Christabel carry her over the sill of the portal? &c., &c. {263}

2. What does Byron mean us to infer that Lara saw in his hall that midnight, when he so alarmed
his household with

  "A sound, a voice, a shriek, a fearful call,
  A long loud shriek--and silence."?

The poet, it is true, seems to refuse, purposely, to let his readers into the truth, telling
them:--

  "Whate'er his frenzy dream'd or eye beheld,
  If yet remember'd, ne'er to be reaveal'd,
  Rests at his heart."

But still, I conceive there can be no doubt that he knew the truth (I speak as of realities),
--knew what he intended to represent by so full and elaborate a delineation of a scene. And
it is the author's meaning and intention that I wish to come at.

I will ask one more question relative to this magnificent poem (which I don't think has had
justice done it by the critics), but one respecting which I hardly think there can be any doubt
as to the author's secret meaning:--Is not the Kaled of Lara the Gulnare of the Giaour?

Before concluding, I will add a query on a very different subject.

3. Many of your readers have, doubtless, seen the large marble tablet erected by the Vallaisians
in honour of Napoleon, in the Convent of the Great St. Bernard. A recent traveller in Switzerland
(Dr. Forbes) has, I find, noticed the inscription, and questioned, as I had done, both its
meaning and Latinity. I extract this author's note as expressing exactly the point on which
I desiderate information:--

    "Having doubts both as to the precise meaning and lingual
    purity of the compound epithet Bis Italicus, here applied
    to Napoleon, I subjoin the passage in which it occurs, for the
    judgement of the learned:--

    'NAPOLEONI ... ÆGYPTIACO BIS ITALICO SEMPER INVICTO ... GRATA
    RESPUBLICA.'"--A Physician's Holiday, p. 468.

EMDEE.

Athenæum, January 26. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Howkey or Horkey.-- Can anybody explain the etymology of the word Howkey or Horkey, generally
used to denote a harvest-home merriment in our eastern counties? Forbes speaks of it as an
intractable word, and neither he nor Sir J. Cullum have succeeded in explaining it satisfactorily.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, Feb. 16.

Lord Bacon's Metrical Version of the Psalms.--The answer in No. 15. p. 235. to A CORNISHMAN'S
Query (No. 13. p. 202) respecting "Bacon's Metrical Version of the Psalms," suggests another
query. The work in question was a mere "exercise of sickness;" it contains only seven psalms
(the 1st, 12th, 90th, 104th, 126th, 137th, and 149th), and is, without pretension of any kind,
a very proper diversion for a mind that could not be inactive and yet required rest; and very
good verses for a man unpractised in metrical composition. The Collection of Apophthegms (also
a recreation in sickness), though considerably larger and altogether weightier, was considered
so trifling a work that Dr. Rawley, in his "perfect list of his Lordship's true works, &c.,"
appended to the first edition of the Resuscitatio (1657), either forgot or did not think fit
to mention it. Yet both these trifles were not only written but published, by Bacon himself
the year before his death--a thing quite contrary to his practice; for though he had written
and carefully preserved and circulated in manuscript so much, he had till then published nothing
that was not of the weightiest and most solid kind. Can any of your correspondents inform me
how much two such books may possibly have been worth to a publisher in the year 1625; being
works of low price and popular character, proceeding from an author of great name? How much
is it reasonable to suppose that a publisher may have given for the copyright? or how far may
it have gone towards the payment of a bookseller's bill?

J.S.

Feb. 7. 1850.

Treatise of Equivocation.--I shall feel happy if, through your very opportune medium, I can
obtain some information respecting a very extraordinary and mysterious book, as to its existence,
local habitation, and any other material circumstance, which has the title of A Treatise of
Equivocation. The first recognition of the work is in the Relation of the Proceedings in the
Trial for the Powder Plot, 1604. At signat. I. the Attourney-General, Sir E. Coke, appeals
to it, and affirms that it was allowed by the Archpriest Blackwel, and that the title was altered
to A Treatise against Lying and Fraudulent Dissimulation. He proceeds to describe some of its
contents, as if he were himself acquainted with the book. Thomas Morton, Bishop of Lichfield,
and Coventry, afterwards of Durham, in his Full Satisfaction concerning a double Romish Iniquitie;
Rebellion and Equivocation, 1606, refers to the work as familiarly acquainted with it. (See
Ep. Dedic. A. 3.; likewise pages 88 & 94.) He gives the authorship to Creswell or Tresham.
He refers likewise to a Latin work entitled Resolutio Casuum, to the same effect, possibly
a translation, to which he subjoins the names of Parsons and Allen. Robert Abbot, in his Antilogia,
1613, pp. 13, 14. emphatically and at length produces the same book and facts; but they are
merely copied from the Relation of the Powder-treason Trial. Henry Mason, in his most satisfactory
work, The New Art of Lying, &c., 1624, has spoken of the {264} Treatise with the same familiarity
(see p. 51.), and elsewhere, if my memory does not deceive me. Dodd, in his Church history,--when
will the new edition begin to move again? Can Stonyhurst tell?--ascribes the work to Tresham.
Hardly any of the similar works in these times belong to one author. It may just be added,
that Parson's Mitigation contains, perhaps, all the substance of the Roman equivocation, with
not much reserve or disguise. It was published in answer to Bishop Morton's work in 1607. Foulis
has, of course, substantially all the above, but nothing more.

Now, the questions which I want to have solved are these:--Was the book ever extant in MS.
Or print? Is it now extant, and where? Who has seen a copy? What is its size, date, and extent?
Has the Durham Cathedral Library, in particular, a copy? Mr. Botfield might have informed us.
In fact, where is any effectual intelligence of the fugitive to be found?

J.M.

Feb. 8. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

ETYMOLOGY OF "ARMAGH."

Some of your correspondents have taken up the not unnatural idea, that the last syllable of
the word "Armagh" is identical with the Celtic word magh, a plain. But there are two objections
to this. In the first place, the name is never spelt in Irish Armagh, nor even Ardmagh, but
always ARDMACHA. Ardmagh or Armagh is only the anglicised spelling, adapted to English tongues
and ears. It is therefore clearly absurd to take this corrupt form of the word as our datum,
in the attempt to search for its etymology. Secondly, the Irish names of places which are derived
from, or compounded of, magh, a plain, are always anglicised, moy, moi, mow, or mo, to represent
the pronunciation: as Fermoy, Athmoy, Knockmoy, Moira, Moyagher, Moyaliffe (or Me-aliffe, as
it is now commonly spelt), Moville, Moyarta, and thousands of other cases. And those who are
acquainted with the Irish language will at once tell, by the ear, that Armagh, as the word
is pronounced by the native peasantry, even by those who have lost that language (as most of
them in that district now have), could not be a compound of magh, a plain.

The work of M. Bullet, quoted by your correspondent "HERMES," is full of ignorant blunders
similar to that which he commits, when he tells us that Armagh in compounded of "Ar, article,
and mag, ville." The article, in Irish, is An, not ar; and mag does not signify a town. He
adopts, your readers will perceive, the modern English spelling, which could not lead to a
correct result, even if M. Bullet had been acquainted with the Celtic languages. The same remark
applies to the explanation given by the author of Circles of Gomer. Ard, not Ar, is the word
to be explained; and therefore, even though Ar and Ararat meant, as he tells us, "earth, country,
or upon and on the earth," this would throw no light on the etymology of ARDmacha.

"HIBERNICUS" (No. 14. p. 217.) is partly right and partly wrong; he adopts the anglicised spelling
of the second syllable, although he seems aware that the first syllable ought to be Ard; and
he admits also that this word is a substantive, signifying a height, not the adjective high.
"A high plain," in Irish, would be, not Ardmagh, or Ardmoy (as it would have been anglicised),
but Magh-ard (Anglice Moyard). Great light will be thrown on the whole subject of the etymology
of Irish typographical names, when the Index to my friend Mr. O'Donovan's edition of the Annals
of the Four Masters makes its appearance.

I may add too, in conclusion, that Camden is wrong in suggesting that Armach (as he spells
it, retaining, curiously enough, the correct etymology of the last syllable) is identical with
Dearmach (where the last syllable ought to be magh). This latter place is the well-known Durrow,
in the county Westmeath; and its name, in Irish, is Duir-magh, which is really a compound from
magh, a plain. Bede tells us, that the word signified, in the Scottish language, Campus roborum
(see Bede, Hist. Eccl. lib. iii. c. 4.); but Adamson (Vit. Columbæ, c. 39.) more correctly
translates it, "monasterium Roboreti Campi." It is not likely that such authorities could confound
Durrow, in Westmeath, with the ecclesiastical metropolis of Ireland, and patriarchal see of
St. Patrick.

Whoever the Mach or Macha was from whom Ardmacha has its name (whether the queen called Macha-mong-ruadh,
whose reign is assigned by O'Flaherty to A.M. 3603, or the older Macha, who is said to be the
wife of Nemedius), it should be borne in mind, that the word whose etymology is required is
ARDMACHA[16], and not Armagh. What would be thought of the critic who would now attempt to
investigate the etymology of the English word bishop, by dividing it into two syllables, and
seeking analogies in sound for each syllable.

I have ventured to go at greater length into this matter than its importance may seem to warrant,
because it illustrates so clearly a very general error, from which Celtic literature has deeply
suffered, of inventing fanciful etymologies adapted to the modern English spellings, instead
of the original Celtic forms of names; and this error, as the question before us proves, is
as old as Camden's time, and older.

J.H. TODD.

Trin. Coll. Dublin, Feb. 2, 1850.

    [16] Those who have access to Colgan's Acta Sanctorum
    Hiberniæ will see that he always spells Armagh, Ardmacha;
    and Durrow, Durmugia.

       *       *       *       *       *{265}

WILLIAM BASSE AND HIS POEMS.

I read with great pleasure MR. COLLIER'S interesting paper on "William Basse and his Poems,"
inserted in your 13th Number. Very little is known of this once popular poet, but it is very
desirable that that little should be collected together, which cannot be better effected than
through the friendly system of inter-communication established by your valuable journal.

From my limited researches upon this subject, it appears that there
were two poets of the name of William Basse. Anthony Wood (Athen.
Oxon., edit. Bliss. iv. 222.) speaks of one William Basse, of
Moreton, near Thame, in Oxfordshire, who was some time a retainer
of Lord Wenman, of Thame Park, i.e. Richard Viscount Wenman, in the
peerage of Ireland. And I find among my MS. biographical collections
that a William Basse, of Suffolk, was admitted a sizar of Emanuel
College, Cambridge, in 1629. A.B. 1632, and A.M. in 1636. The William
Basse who wrote Great Brittaines Sunnes-set in 1613, was also the
author of the MS. collection of poems entitled Polyhymnia, mentioned
by MR. COLLIER. In proof of this it is merely necessary to notice
the dedication of the former "To his Honourable Master, Sir Richard
Wenman, Knight," and the verses and acrostics in the MS. "To the Right
Hon. the Lady Aungier Wenman, Mrs. Jane Wenman, and the truly noble,
vertuous, and learned Lady, the Lady Agnes Wenman." Basse's Poems
were evidently intended for the press, but we may conjecture that the
confusion of the times prevented them from appearing.
         *       *       *       *       *
  Though these, your happy births, have silent past
  More years than some abortive wits shall last;
  He still writes new, who once so well hath sung:
  That Muse can ne'er be old, which ne'er was young."

These verses are valuable as showing that Basse was living in 1651, and that he was then an
aged man. The Emanuelian of the same name, who took his M.A. degree in 1636, might possibly
be his son. At any rate, the latter was a poet. There are some of his pieces among the MSS.
in the Public Library, Cambridge; and I have a small MS. volume of his rhymes, scarcely soaring
above mediocrity, which was presented to me by an ancient family residing in Suffolk.

A poem by William Basse is inserted in the Annalia Dubrensia, 1636, in praise of Robert Dover
and his revival of the Cotswold Games; but it is not clear to which of these poets we may ascribe
it. Malone attributes two rare volumes to one or other of these poets. The first, a translation
or paraphrase of Juvenal's tenth satire, entitled That which seems Best is Worst, 12mo., 1617;
the second, "A Miscellany of Merriment," entitled A Helpe to Discourse, 2nd edit. 8vo., 1620:
but the former is more probably the work of William Barkstead. I may mention that a copy of
Basse's Sword and Buckler, or Serving Man's Defence, 1602, is among Malone's books in the Bodleian.
The ballad mentioned by MR. COLLIER, "Maister Basse his Career, or the Hunting of the Hare,"
is undoubtably the one alluded to by Walton. I may add, that it is printed in Wit and Drollery,
edit. 1682. p. 64.; and also in Old Ballads, 1725, vol. iii. p. 196. The tune is contained
in the Shene MS., a curious collection of old tunes in the Advocate's Library, Edinburgh; and
a ballad entitled Hubert's Ghost, to the tune of Basse's Carrier, is preserved among the Bagford
Collection of Old Ballads in the British Museum. With regard to the second ballad mentioned
by Walton, our knowledge is not so perfect. Sir John Hawkins in a note (Complete Angler, 5th
edit. p. 73.) says:--

  "This song, beginning--
    'Forth from my dark and dismal cell,'

