The translator was "Françoys Philippe, a servant of the Lord Chancellor" (Thos. Goodrick, Bishop
of Ely), as he styles himself. The printer's name is Gaultier. It was put forth in 1553.

There is still extant an "Order in Council" for the island of Jersey, dated April 15, 1550,
commanding to "observe and use the service, and other orders appertaining to the same, and
to the ministration of the sacraments, set forth in the booke sent to you presentlye." It is
uncertain what the book here referred to was, whether a translation or a copy of the English
liturgy.

There are copies extant of another liturgy put forth in 1616, purporting to be "newly translated
at the command of the king." The printer's name is Jehan Bill, of London. The name of John
Bill appears also as king's printer in the English authorised edition of 1662.

Another was published in 1667, by Jean Dunmore and Octavien Pulleyn.

The edition of 1695, published by Erringham (Everingham) and R. Bentley, has the sanction of
K. Charles II. appended to it.

Numerous editions have since been published, varying in many important points (even of doctrine)
from one another, and from their English original. There is now no authorised edition fit for
general use; the older translations having become too antiquated by the variations in the French
language to be read in the churches.

M. A. W. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRAYING TO THE WEST.

(Vol. viii., p. 208.)

Although going over old ground, yet, if it be permitted, I would note a curious coincidence
connected with this far-spread veneration for the West.

As mentioned by G. W., the Puranas point to the "Sacred Isles of the West" as the elysium of
the ancient Hindûs, "The White Islands of the West." The Celtæ of the European continent believed
that their souls were transported to England, or some islands adjacent. (See Encyclopédié Méthodique,
art. "Antiquités," vol. i. p. 704.) The Celtic elysium, "Flath-Innis," a remote island of the
West, is mentioned by Logan in his Celtic Gaël, vol. ii. p. 342., who no doubt drew his information
from the same source as Professor Rafinesque, whose observations on this subject I transcribe,
viz.:

    "It is strange but true, that, throughout the earth, the place of
    departed souls, the land of spirits, was supposed to be in the West, or
    at the setting sun. This happens everywhere, and in the most opposite
    religions, from China to Lybia, and also from Alaska to Chili in
    America. The instances of an eastern paradise were few, and referred to
    the eastern celestial abode of yore, rather than the future abode of
    souls. The Ashinists, or Essenians, the best sect of Jews, placed
    Paradise in the Western Ocean; and the Id. Alishe, or Elisha of the
    Prophets, the happy land. Jezkal (our Ezekiel) mentions that island;
    the Phoenicians called it Alizut, and some deem Madeira was meant, but
    it had neither men nor spirits! From this the Greeks made their Elysium
    and Tartarus placed near together, at first in Epirus, then Italy, next
    Spain, lastly in the ocean, as the settlers travelled west. The sacred
    and blessed islands of the Hindus and Lybians were in this ocean;
    Wilford thought they meant the British Islands. Pushcara, the farthest
    off, he says, was Iceland, but may have meant North America.

    "The Lybians called their blessed islands 'Aimones;' they were the
    Canaries, it is said, but likely the Atlantides, since the Atlantes
    dwelt in the Aimones," &c.

And farther he says, the Gauls had their Cocagne, the Saxons their Cockaign, Cocana of the
Lusitanians,--

    "A land of delight and plenty, which is proverbial to this day! By
    the Celts it was called 'Dunna feadhuigh,' a fairy land, &c. But all
    these notions have earlier foundations, since the English Druids put
    their paradise in a remote island in the west, called {344}
    'Flath-Innis,' the flat island", &c.--American Nations, vol. ii. p.
    245. et infra.

The coincidence then is this. The same veneration for the West prevails among many of our Indian
tribes, who place their Paradise in an island beyond the Great Lake (Pacific), and far toward
the setting sun. There, good Indians enjoy a fine country abounding in game, are always clad
in new skins, and live in warm new lodges. Thither they are wafted by prosperous gales; but
the bad Indians are driven back by adverse storms, wrecked on the coast, where the remains
of their canoes are to be seen covering the strand in all directions.

I cannot refrain from adding here another coincidence connected with futurity. The above idea
of sailing to the Indian Paradise, though prevalent, is not general; for instance, the Minnetarees
and Mandans believed that to reach Paradise the souls of the departed had to pass over an extremely
narrow bridge, which was done safely by the good Indians, but the bad ones slipped off and
were buried in oblivion. (See Long's Expedition to the Rocky Mountains, vol. i. p. 259.)

The Chepewa crosses a river on a bridge formed by the body of a large snake (see Long's Expedition
to St. Peter's River, vol. i. p. 154.); and in the same volume it is stated that the Dacota,
or Sioux, believe they must pass over a rock with a sharp edge like a knife. Those who fall
off go to the region of evil spirits, where they are worked, tormented, and frequently flogged
unmercifully.

Now, this bridge for gaining Paradise is just the Alsirat of the Mahomedans; I think it will
be found in the Bibliothèque Orientale of D'Herbelot; at all events it is mentioned in the
preliminary discourse to Sale's Koran. Sale thinks Mahomet borrowed the idea from the Magians,
who teach, that on the last day all mankind must pass over the "Pûl Chînavad" or "Chînavar,"
i.e. "The Straight Bridge." Farther, the Jews speak of the "Bridge of Hell," which is no broader
than a thread. According to M. Hommaire de Hell, the Kalmuck Alsirat is a bridge of iron (or
causeway) traversing a sea of filth, urine, &c. When the wicked attempt to pass along this,
it narrows beneath them to a hair's breadth, snaps asunder, and thus convicted they are plunged
into hell. (Travels in the Steppes of the Caspian, &c., p. 252.)

Having already trespassed most unconscionably, I forbear farther remark on these coincidences,
except that such ideas of futurity being found amongst nations so widely separated, cannot
but induce the belief of a common origin, or at least of intimate communication at a former
period, and that so remote as to have allowed time for diverging dialects to have become, as
it were, distinct languages.

A. C. M.

Exeter.

       *       *       *       *       *

JACOB BOBART.

(Vol. viii., p. 37.)

The completion of a laborious literary work has taken my attention away from the "N. & Q."
for some weeks past, otherwise I should sooner have given MR. BOBART the following information.

The engraving of old Jacob Bobart by W. Richardson is not of any value, being a copy from an
older print. Query if it is not a copy of the very rare engraving by Loggan and Burghers?

The original print of the "founder of the physick garden," "D. Loggan del., M. Burghers sculp.,
1675," which Mr. Bobart wishes to procure, may be purchased of A. E. Evans, 403. Strand, for
2l. 12s. 6d. I also learn from Mr. Evans' invaluable Catalogue of Engraved British Portraits
(an octavo of 431 pages, lately published), that there exists a portrait of Bobart, "the classical
alma mater coachman of Oxford," whole length, by Dighton, 1808. The same catalogue also contains
other portraits of the Bobarts.

Since my last communication on the present subject, I find the following memorandums in one
of my note-books, which possibly may be unknown to your correspondent; they relate to MSS.
in the British Museum.

Add. MS. 5290. contains 227 folio drawings of various rare plants, the names of which are added
in the autograph of Jacob Bobart the elder.

Sloane MS. 4038. contains some letters from Jacob Bobart to Sir Hans Sloane, 1685-1716; also
one from Anne Bobart, dated 1701.

Sloane MS. 3343. contains a catalogue of plants and seeds saved at Oxford, by Mr. Bobart, 1695-6.

Sloane MS. 3321., consisting of scientific letters addressed to Mr. Petiver, contains one from
Jacob Bobart, and another from Tilleman Bobart. The latter has a letter dated "Blenheim, Feb.
5, 1711-12," to some person unknown, in Sloane MS. 4253.

Tilleman Bobart appears to have been employed in laying out the park and gardens at the Duke
of Marlborough's magnificent seat at Blenheim. A member of his original papers and receipts
were lately disposed of by auction at Messrs. Puttick and Simpson's. (See the sale catalogue
of July 22, 1853, lot 1529.)

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY USE OF TIN.--DERIVATION OF THE NAME OF BRITAIN.

(Vol. viii., p. 290.)

Many questions are proposed by G.W., to which it is extremely improbable that any but a conjectural
answer can ever be given. That tin was in common use 2800 years ago, is certain. Probably evidence
may be obtained, if it have not been so {345} already, of its use at a still earlier period;
but it is unlikely that we shall ever know who first brought it from Cornwall to Asia, and
used it to harden copper. It is, however, a matter of interest to trace the mention of this
metal in the ancient inscriptions, Egyptian and Assyrian, which have of late years been so
successfully interpreted. Mistakes have been made from time to time, which subsequent researches
have rectified. It was thought for a long time that a substance, mentioned in the hieroglyphical
inscriptions very frequently, and in one instance said to have been procured from Babylon,
was tin. This has now been ascertained to be a mistake. Mr. Birch has proved that it was Lapis
lazuli, and that what was brought from Babylon was an artificial blue-stone in imitation of
the genuine one. I am not aware whether the true hieroglyphic term for tin has been discovered.
Mention was again supposed to have been made of tin in the annals of Sargon. A tribute paid
to him in his seventh year by Pirhu (Pharaoh, as Col. Rawlinson rightly identifies the name;
not Pihor, Boccharis, as I at one time supposed), king of Egypt, Tsamtsi, queen of Arabia,
and Idhu, ruler of the Isabeans, was supposed to have contained tin as well as gold, horses,
and camels. This, however, was in itself an improbable supposition. It is much more likely
that incense or spices should have been yielded by the countries named than tin. At any rate,
I have recently identified a totally different word with the name of tin. It reads anna; and
I supposed it, till very lately, to mean "rings." I find, however, that it signifies a metal,
and that a different word has the signification "rings." When Assur-yuchura-bal, the founder
of the north-western palace at Nimrúd, conquered the people who lived on the banks of the Orontes
from the confines of Hamath to the sea, he obtained from them twenty talents of silver, half
a talent of gold, one hundred talents of anna (tin), one hundred talents of iron, &c. His successor
received from the same people all these metals, and also copper.

It is already highly probable, and farther discoveries may soon convert this probability to
certainty, that the people just referred to (whom I incline strongly to identify with the Shirutana
of the Egyptian inscriptions) were the merchants of the world before Tyre was called into existence;
their port being what the Greeks called Seleucia, when they attempted to revive its ancient
greatness. It is probably to them that the discovery of Britain is to be attributed; and it
was probably from them that it received its name.

In G. W.'s communication, a derivation of the name from barat-anac, "the land of tin," is suggested.
He does not say by whom, but he seems to disclaim it as his own. I do not recollect to have
met with it before; but it appears to me, even as it stands, a far more plausible one than
bruit-tan, "the land of tin:" the former term being supposed to be Celtic for tin, and the
latter a termination with the sense of land: or than brit-daoine, "the painted (or separated)
people."

I am, however, disposed to think that the name is not of Phoenician origin, but was given by
their northern neighbours, whom I have mentioned as their predecessors in commerce. These were
evidently of kindred origin, and spoke a language of the same class; and I think it all but
certain, that in the Assyrian name for tin (anna) we have the name given to it by this people,
from whom the Assyrians obtained it. "The land of tin" would be in their language barat (or
probably barit) anna, from which the transition to Britannia presents no difficulty. I assume
here that b-r-t, without expressed vowels, is a Phoenician term for "land of." I assume it
on the authority of the person, whoever he may be, that first gave the derivation that G. W.
quotes. I have no Phoenician authority within reach: but I can readily believe the statement,
knowing that banit would be the Assyrian word used in such a compound, and that n, r, and b
are perpetually interchanged in the Semitic languages, and notoriously so in this very root.
Ummi banitiya, "of the mother who produced me," is pure Assyrian; and so would banit-anna,
"the producer of tin," be; all names of lands being feminine in Assyrian.

It would be curious if the true derivation of the world-renowned name of Britain should be
ascertained for the first time through an Assyrian medium.

EDW. HINCKS.

Killyleagh, Down.

       *       *       *       *       *

As there are several Queries in the Note of G. W. which the Celtic language is capable of elucidating,
I beg to offer a few derivations from that language.

Britain is derived from briot, painted, and tan, a country--i. e. "the country of the painted
people." It is a matter of history, that the people of Britain dyed their bodies with various
colours.

Tin is from the Celtic tin, to melt readily, to dissolve. It is also called stan: Latin, stannum.

Hercules is from the Phoenician or Celtic, Earr-aclaide, pronounced Er-aclaie, i. e. the noble
leader or hero.

Melkarthus is derived from Mal-catair, pronounced Mal-cahir, i. e. the champion or king of
the city (of Tyre).

Moloch cannot be identical with the Tyrian Hercules, as Moloch was the god of fire: probably
a name for the sun, from the Celtic molc, i. e. fire.

FRAS. CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

{346}

YEW-TREES IN CHURCHYARDS.

(Vol. viii., p. 244.)

Whilst offering a solution to the Query of R. C. WARDE, as to the placing yew-trees in churchyards,
I am obliged to differ from him toto coelo, by considering the derivation of the name of the
plant itself, though I must candidly confess that the solution of the Query and the derivation
of the word are my own.

Yew is ancient British, and signifies existent and enduring, having the same root as Jehovah;
and yew is Welsh for it is, being one of the forms of the third person present indicative of
the auxiliary verb bód, to be. Hence the yew-tree was planted in churchyards, not to indicate
death, despair, but life, hope and assurance. It is one of our few evergreens, and is the most
enduring of all, and clearly points out the Christian's hope in the immortality of the soul:
Resurgam.

Whilst on the word yew, I may perhaps observe that I am hardly inclined now (though I once
was so) to derive from it, as the author of the Etymological Compendium does, the name yeoman:
I think that yeoman is not yew-man, "a man using the yew-bow," but yoke-man, a man owning as
much land as a yoke of oxen could plough in a certain time.

J. G. CUMMINGS.

The following extract frown the Handbook of English Ecclesiology, p. 190., may be of some assistance
to your correspondent:

    "YEW. These were planted generally to the south of the church, to
    supply green for the decoration of churches at the great festivals;
    this tree being an emblem of immortality. It is a heathen prejudice
    which regards it as mournful. It is not probable yews were used as
    palms; the traditional name given to the withy showing that this was
    used in the procession on that festival."

WILLIAM W. KING.

Instead of troubling you with a particular answer to MR. WARDE'S inquiry, let me refer him
to the Forest Trees of Britain, by the Rev. C. A. Johns, p 297. et seq., where, among many
other curious and interesting facts, he will find the various reasons assigned by different
authors, ancient and modern, for the plantation of yew-trees in churchyards. I do not find,
however, that the origin ingeniously assigned by MR. WARDE is among the number.

[Phi].

I have always supposed, but I know not upon what authority, that the custom of planting yew-trees
in churchyards originated in the idea of supplying the yeomen of the parish with bows, in the
good old archery days.

IGNORAMUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

STARS ARE THE FLOWERS OF HEAVEN.

(Vol. vii. passim.)

I sent a Note to "N. & Q" some time ago, expressing my conviction that the original locale
of this beautiful idea was in St. Chrysostom. but, as I could not then give a reference to
the passage which contained it, my suggestion was of course not definite enough to call for
attention. I am now able to vindicate to the "golden-mouthed" preacher of Antioch this expression
of poetic fancy, the origination of which has excited, and deservedly, so much inquiry among
the readers of "N. & Q." It occurs in Homily X., "On the Statues," delivered at Antioch. I
transcribe the passage from the translation in The Library of the Fathers:

    "Follow me whilst I enumerate the meadows, the gardens, the flowering
    tribes; all sorts of herbs and their uses, their odours, forms,
    disposition; yea, but their very names; the trees which are fruitful
    and the barren; the nature of metals; that of animals, in the sea or on
    the land; of those that swim and those that traverse the air; the
    mountains, the forests, the groves; the meadow below and the meadow
    above; for there is a meadow on the earth, and a meadow too in the
    sky, THE VARIOUS FLOWERS OF THE STARS; the rose below, and the rainbow
    above!... Contemplate with me the beauty of the sky; how it has been
    preserved so long without being dimmed, and remains as bright and clear
    as if it had been only fabricated to-day; moreover the power of the
    earth, how its womb has not become effete by bringing forth during so
    long a time!" &c. Homily X., "On the Statues," pp. 178-9.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

P.S.--Are the following lines, which contain this idea, and were copied long ago from the poet's
corner of a provincial paper, with the title of "The Language of the Stars, a fragment," worth
preserving?

 "The stars bear tidings, voiceless though they are:
 'Mid the calm loveliness of the evening air,
  As one by one they open clear and high,
  And win the wondering gaze of infancy,
  They speak,--yet utter not. Fair heavenly flowers
  Strewn on the floor-way of the angels' bowers!
 'Twas HIS own hand that twined your chaplets bright,
  And thoughts of love are in your wreaths of light,
  Unread, unreadable by us;--there lie
  High meanings in your mystic tracery;
  Silent rebukings of day's garish dreams,
  And warnings solemn as your own fair beams."

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS BURNED BY THE COMMON HANGMAN.

(Vol. viii., p. 272.)

Your correspondent BALLIOLENSIS should remember that at the time Dr. Drake published his {347}
Historia Anglo-Scotica, 1703, there were no bounds to the angry passions and jealousies evoked
by the discussion of the projected union; consequently, what may appear to as in the present
day an insufficient reason for the treatment the book met with in the northern metropolis,
wore a very different aspect to the Scots, who, under the popular belief that they were to
be sold to their enemies, saw every movement with distrust, and tortured everything said or
written on this side the Tweed, upon the impending question, to discover an attack upon their
national independence, their church, and their valour.

Looking at Dr. Drake's book, then, for the data upon which it was condemned, we find that it
opens with a prefatory dedication to Sir E. Seymour, one of Queen Anne's Commissioners for
the Union, and a high churchman, wherein the author distinctly ventures a blow at Presbytery
when he says to his patron:

    "The languishing oppressed Church of Scotland is not without hopes of
    finding in you hereafter the same successful champion and restorer that
    her sister of England has already experienced."

He farther calculated upon Sir Edward inspiring the neighbouring nation "with as great a respect
for the generosity of the English as they have heretofore had to dread their valour." Now the
Scots neither acknowledged the Episcopacy which Seymour is here urged to press upon them, nor
had they any such slavish fear of the vaunted English prowess with which Dr. Drake would have
them intimidated; without going farther, therefore, into the book, it appears to me that the
Scots parliament had a right to consider it written in a bad spirit, and to pacify the people
by condemning it.

Defoe, in his History of the Union (G. Chalmers' edition, London, 1786), says:

    "One Dr. Drake writes a preface to an abridgment of the Scots
    History, wherein, speaking something reflecting upon the freedom and
    independence of Scotland, the Scots parliament caused it to be burned
    by the hangman in Edinburgh."

In his Northern Memoirs, 1715, Oldmixon observes:

    "They (the Jacobites) therefore put Dr. Drake, author of the High
    Church Memorials, upon publishing an antiquated Scotch history, on
    purpose to vilify the whole nation in the preface, and create more ill
    blood. This had the desired effect. The Scots parliament highly
    resented the affront, and ordered it to be burnt by the common hangman
    at Edinburgh." Angl. London, 1705. This had appeared the year
before, but was reproduced to answer the objections to it from the other
side. It was written by William Attwood, Esq. If it required a nice
discrimination to discover the offence of Drake, there was no such dubiety
about this book, which goes the whole length of Scottish vassalage; and Mr.
Attwood would lead us to believe that he knocks over the arguments of
Hodges and Anderson[6] for Scottish independence with as much ease as he
would ninepins.

{348}

Unfortunately these subjects are again forced upon us, and a reference to some of the books
I have cited will enable gentlemen who are curious upon the point to judge for themselves in
the matter of the present agitation of "Justice to Scotland."

J. O.

[Footnote 6: Jas. Hodges, a Scotch gentleman, who supported the Independency in a work entitled
War betwixt the Two Kingdoms considered, for which, says Attwood, "he had 4800 Scots Punds
given him for nothing but begging the question, and bullying England with the terror of her arms."

"An Historical Essay, showing that the Crown of Scotland is Independent; wherein the gross
Errors of a late book, entitled 'The Superiority and Direct Dominion,' &c., and some other
books for that purpose, are exposed by Jas. Anderson, A.M., Writer to His Majesty's Signet,"
Edin. 1705. For this work Anderson received the thanks of the Scottish parliament, as well
as some pecuniary reward. (Chalmers' Life of Ruddiman.) The authors of these books having made
out a case which was adopted as the national one, it is nowise surprising that they should
hand over Drake and Attwood to the hangman for attempting to demolish it.]

On May 5, 1686, M. Claude's account of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew was burnt in the Old
Exchange, "so mighty a power and ascendant here had the French ambassador." (Evelyn's Memoirs.)

JOHN S. BURN.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Stereoscopic Angles.--As I presume that MR. T. L. MERRITT is, like myself, only desirous of
arriving at truth, I beg to offer the following reply to his last communication (Vol. viii.,
pp. 275-6.), in which he misinterprets some observations of mine upon the subject in question.

With regard to the distance quoted by me of 2¼ inches, I look upon it as the same thing as
intended by MR. MERRITT--that is, the average distance between the centres of the eyes; and
it amounts simply to a difference of opinion between us; but, so far as that point is concerned,
I am quite ready to adopt 2½ inches as a standard, although I believe that the former is nearer
the truth: however, I require more than a mere assertion that "the only correct space for the
cameras to be apart is 2½ inches, and this under every circumstance, and that any departure
from this must produce error." I quote verbatim, having merely Italicised three words to point
my meaning more clearly. An object being 5 feet distant, and another at 10 feet from the observer,
a line between the eyes will subtend a very much larger angle in the former than in the latter
instance: hence the inclination of the axes of the eyes is the chief criterion by which people
with the usual complement of those useful organs judge of proximity: but if half a dozen houses
are made to appear as if 10 or 12 feet distant (by means of the increase of the angle between
the points of formation of the pictures), while the angle which each picture subtends is relatively
small; it is clear that both eyes will see in relief at a short distance half a dozen houses
in a space not large enough for a single brick of one of them, and, consequently, the view
will appear as if taken from a model. MR. MERRITT will object that an erroneous effect is produced;
if he will refer to my statement (Vol. viii., p. 228.), he will find that it is precisely what
I admitted; and he appears to have overlooked the proviso attached to my next observation (judging
by his comment thereon), so I shall make no farther remark upon that point, beyond inquiring
why the defect he is content to put up with is called a trifling exaggeration, while that which
is less offensive to me is designated as absolute deformity and error? Persons with one eye
are not good judges of distance, and this may be easily tested thus:--Close one eye, and endeavour
to dip a pen in an inkstand at some little distance not previously ascertained by experiment,
with both eyes open; it will be found far less easy than would be imagined. One-eyed people,
from habit, contrive to judge of distance mainly by relative position, and by moving the head
laterally cause a change therein: to them, all pictures are, to an extent, stereoscopic.

I am really amazed that my advocacy of the radial, instead of the parallel, position of the
cameras should have been so misunderstood. Surely, it cannot be seriously asserted that the
former will produce two vanishing points, and the latter only one? And as to the supposition
connected with the boy, the ass, and the drum, a camera that would produce the effect of showing
both sides of the ass, both legs of the boy, and both heads of the drum, with a movement of
only 2½ inches, whether radially or parallel, would indeed be a curiosity. But if the motion
of the camera extended over a space sufficiently large to exhibit the phenomena alluded to,
then it would confirm what I have before advanced, viz. present the idea of a small model of
the objects, which could be so placed as to show naturally these very effects.

That the axes of the eyes are inclined when viewing objects, is readily proved thus:--Let a
person look across the road at any object--say a shop-window; but stand so that a lamp-post
near him shall intervene, and be in a direct line between the observer's nose and the object
viewed. If he be requested to observe the post instead of the distant object, the pupils of
his eyes will be seen to approach one another; and on again looking to the distant object,
will instantly recede. The range of vision is another point that appears to be misunderstood,
as we are differing about words instead of facts. The column is an illustration that will exactly
suit my views; for I call the range of vision the same if taken from side to side of the column,
although it is perfectly true that the tangents to the two eyes differ by the angle they subtend:
but certainly MR. WILKINSON'S case (Vol. viii., p. 181.) of seven houses and five bathing-machines
in one picture, and five houses and eight machines in the other, illustrates an instance where
the range of vision is not the same; but I contend that the stereoscopic effect is then confined
to five {349} houses and five machines, otherwise MR. WILKINSON'S supposititious case (ibid.),
of all machines in one, and all houses in the other, might be considered as stereoscopic.

In concluding this very lengthened and, I fear, tedious reply, I beg to assert that I am most
willing to recant any proposition I may have put forth, if proved to be erroneous; but I must
have proof, not mere assertion. And farther, my willing thanks are always tendered to any one
kind enough to correct an error.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Mr. Pumphrey's Process for securing black Tints in Positives.--The importance that appears
to be attached by some of thy correspondents to the stereoscopic appearance of photographs,
induces me to call the attention of those who may not have noticed it to the fact that, as
all camera pictures are monocular, they are best seen by closing one eye, and then they truly
represent nature; and the effect of distance (which so often appears wanting in photographs)
is given with marvellous effect, so well indeed as to render the use of a stereoscope unnecessary.
Like other photographers, I have been long seeking for a method, easy, cheap, and certain,
for obtaining the black tints that are so highly prized by many in the French positives; and
having at last attained the object of my search, I lose no time in laying it before my fellow-operators.

